US	38399737	R3KWH7X7V8QFD3	0828103054	176618669	The Civil War (American Heritage Library)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Fast-Moving Overview of the US Civil War	Bruce Catton, the author, traces the origins, actions, and outcomes of America's bloodiest conflict.  Although the book describes the significant campaigns and some battles of the war, it is both a political and a military history.  For an outstanding and detailed military history of the conflict, read Shelby Foote's three-volume Civil War series. <br /> <br />In the 1971 edition which I read, I was struck by the very preachy tone of the first few pages, which reminded me of a jingoistic public school history book - self-righteous, non-critical, and unreferenced.  (The book contains no bibliography.  And the publisher is American Heritage Press.)  But that's why modern states freely support universal primary education - to instill nationalism into its citizens.  Catton, I would say, does a good job of this.  All Americans are heroes in this book. <br /> <br />Despite these obvious drawbacks, Catton's book is engagingly written and covers all the salient aspects of the conflict.  In addition, he includes a biographical reference of all the major actors in the war.  With its numerous drawings, photos, and maps and its fine writing, Catton keeps the reader engaged and yearning for more. <br /> <br />Overall, I quite enjoyed reading Catton's popular history book.  Just get past the first few pages and don't expect any bibliographic references.	2005-09-19
US	38399737	R21VYYQ7IA8ET0	0393317900	425198418	One Hell of a Gamble: Khrushchev, Castro, and Kennedy, 1958-1964: The Secret History of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The Cuban Missile Crisis' Origins, Events, and Decisions	In 1958, Fidel Castro and his band of guerillas successfully overthrew the despised Batista regime in Cuba.  At the time, Castro was a question mark for US policymakers.  He actually was invited to visit the US and gave a speech at Harvard.  However, his domestic socialist reforms caused consternation in Washington, while the communist affiliations of his leading supporters (e.g. his brother, Raul, and Che Guevara) created outright alarm.  The authors infer that in 1958 Castro could have gone either way, i.e. communist or non-communist.  However, Washington's thinly veiled distrust and eventual outright hostility against him supposedly pushed him into seeking Soviet support.<br /><br />The book then continues, following Castro's ascension to power, his increasing fear of US-backed invasion, and his greater and greater demands for increased Soviet protection.  Surpisingly, the Soviets initially had as little interest in Castro's Cuba as Washington.  However, the Cold War was on, and Kruschev was eager to project Soviet influence at the expense of Mao's communist China.  And what better way to assert Soviet prestige than by establishing a Soviet communist beachhead just off America's shores.<br /><br />As the US stepped up its belated and ineffectual covert operations aimed at destabilizing and eventually toppling the Castro regime, Castro sought ever more Soviet economic, and especially military, assistance.  One of the Soviet's first major successes was in implementing the block surveillance program.  Arms shipments became greater, more frequent, and more obvious.  However, Soviet-Castro relations became endangered by one of Castro's rebellious communist lieutenants, and the Soviets were stymied by their deficiency in ICBMs.  Thus, Kruschev made the fateful and audacious decision to deploy Soviet medium and intermediate range nuclear missiles and bombers in Cuba.<br /><br />Much of the rest of the story is well-known.  American U2 reconnaisance flights over Cuba reveal the construction of Soviet missile and bomber bases.  Kennedy goes on national TV to alert the US public to the crisis and gain support for potential military action.  Behind the scenes, a deal is desperately sought to end the crisis.  Ultimately, Kruschev publicly agrees to remove nukes from Cuba, while Kennedy privately agrees to reciprocate in removing American missiles from Turkey.<br /><br />The book reveals a great deal about how strongly individual personalities affect history and national leadership.  It also demonstrates how completely inept and unrealistic the CIA's operations were in Cuba.  There were a few times during Castro's rise to power that the US had a chance of courting him; however, their own ignorance of Cuba's internal politics assured they would never capitalize on it.  From my standpoint, the entire crisis could have been easily avoided by resolute leadership in the White House - either make Castro an ally, oust him when he was still weak, or guarantee that Cuba will not be military threatened by the US.  The fault lies with both Eisenhower and Kennedy for their weak and vacillating policies towards Castro.ba reveal the construction of Soviet missile and bomber bases.  Kennedy goes on national TV to alert the US public to the crisis and gain support for potential military action.  Behind the scenes, a deal is desperately sought to end the crisis.  Ultimately, Kruschev publicly agrees to remove nukes from Cuba, while Kennedy privately agrees to reciprocate in removing American missiles from Turkey. <br /> <br />The book reveals a great deal about how strongly individual personalities affect history and national leadership.  It also demonstrates how completely inept and unrealistic the CIA's operations were in Cuba.  There were a few times during Castro's rise to power that the US had a chance of courting him; however, their own ignorance of Cuba's internal politics assured they would never capitalize on it.  From my standpoint, the entire crisis could have been easily avoided by resolute leadership in the White House - either make Castro an ally, oust him when he was still weak, or guarantee that Cuba will not be military threatened by the US.  The fault lies with both Eisenhower and Kennedy for their weak and vacillating policies towards Castro. <br /> <br />	2005-09-19
US	38399737	R3262JIKEKGYXJ	0028810252	484140851	Silent Warfare: Understanding the World of Intelligence	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Solid Introduction to Intelligence Activity	Both the authors, Abram Shulsky and Gary Schmitt, are respected intelligence organization professionals who have taken up university-level teaching and writing.  The book is focused on intelligence theory and organization - not on tradecraft.  As such, the principal audience of this book would likely be future intelligence policymakers or foreign intelligence organizations trying to gain an insight into US intelligence systems. <br /> <br />The book does a solid job of identifying what intelligence is, how it is collected (humint vs. techint), how it is processed, how it is systematically protected, and what counter-intelligence includes.  In addition, it addresses the gray areas of covert action (Is it intelligence or military activity?) and plausible denial.  Although much of this discussion could apply to most nations' intelligence bureaus, the authors only explicity describe the American intelligence system. <br /> <br />Perhaps the most outstanding feature of the book is the wealth of sources it contains.  Many of these are freely and immediately available on the web for all to read.  All the footnotes are very thoroughly explained and usually refer to a specific source.  The source list itself adds tremendous value to the book by guiding the reader to so many numerous definitive works on intelligence operations. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a solid introduction to intelligence and a great book for pursuing its addition sources.	2005-09-19
US	38399737	R1MJ893IJIRD5I	0007137516	585633389	Tommy: The British Soldier on the Western Front 1914-1918	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Comprehensive description of life in WWI British army	Richard Holmes, the author, provides a fascinating, masterful portrait of British soldiers' everyday lives during WWI.  This book is about the British army itself; it is NOT a campaign history, a strategy essay, or a biography.   <br /> <br />Despite the plethora of books produced about Britain's WWI effort, Holmes manages to include a great volume of hitherto negelected information.  Some of these topics include: commissioning, pay, ranking differences (permanent, temporary, brevet), compulsory requisitioning of horses, medical treatment, replacements, promotions, religion, liberty, leave, discipline/punishment, mustache regulations, combat training, demobilisation, and return to civilian life.   <br /> <br />Thankfully, he also explains the highly complex war-time formation, structure, varying roles, and evolution of battalions, regiments, brigades, divisions, corps, and armies.  Holmes also defines the differences between formation types (regular, Special Reserve, territorial, and New Army).  In addition, he also relates the jobs of various staff and admin unit members (e.g. Chief of Staff, Adjutant, Regimental Sergeant Major, etc.).   <br /> <br />Besides all the above, the book includes the more commonly discussed trench life routine, weapons, personal accounts, a typical attack, morale, and the army's various branches (infantry, artillery, sappers, cavalry, tanks, machine guns, supply, general staff, etc.).  The author unusually presents a few striking, small-scale examples of successful cavalry charges and a costly episode of firing guns by direct sight. <br /> <br />This is an excellent, well-researched book that is a pleasure to read.  Bravo!	2005-08-11
US	38399737	R2KCL6U3YF9W3T	014044145X	756310147	The War with Hannibal: The History of Rome from Its Foundation, Books XXI-XXX (Penguin Classics) (Bks. 21-30)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Classic account of Rome's epic struggle against Carthage	This book was orginally written by Livy (around the time of Christ) and translated into modern English by Aubrey de Selincourt.  This is the classic account of the war as described by one of Rome's great patriotic (but occasionally factually-questionable) historians.   <br /> <br />Livy describes the background to war as the continuance of an old feud carried on by Hannibal.  Starting with the sack of Saguntum, Hannibal then crosses the Alps to descend into northern Italy, taking the war to Roman territory.  His bold and energetic tactics unhinge the Roman commanders and the armies that come to stop him.   <br /> <br />Hannibal is literally unstoppable as he wins an impressive string of victories at the Ticinus, the Trebia, Lake Trasimene, and finally Cannae.  He doesn't just defeat whole consular Roman armies - he annihilates them and their leaders.  No Roman force dares meet Hannibal's army in open battle, so Rome once again resorts Consul Fabius' old strategy of shadowing Hannibal to limit his troops' freedom to forage and plunder.  As the Roman-allied cities of southern Italy switch their allegiance to Hannibal, the future never looks darker for the Rome. <br /> <br />However, Rome's robust republican spirit and organization rise to the challenge as the Roman people and their loyal allies refuse to concede defeat.  Instead, they rebuild their shattered armies, time and time again, and discover many great new leaders, such as Fabius, Marcellus, Livius, Nero, Metullus, Gracchus, Cornelius Scipio, Gnaeius Scipio, Laelius, and Scipio Africanus.  Scipio Africanus finally defeats the great Hannibal himself at the Battle of Zama almost 20 years after the war began.  Rome victoriously emerges from the conflict strengthened in every way - militarily, economically, morally, diplomatically - and with a host of successful young leaders.  At this point in its history, Rome's historical greatness becomes almost inevitable. <br /> <br />This is a good campaign history of the war.  The book focuses on policy, leadership, and the movement of the Roman and Carthaginian armies.  The descriptions of actual battle are relatively short.  It is organized chronologically by year (from 219 BC to 201 BC) and then by theatre (Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, Spain, Africa, Greece).  Livy gives a brief annual account of each theatre's significant actions.  He also describes the annual election of Roman officials and names each of them, as well as tiring lists of superstitious portents.  Although the campaign history uses a rather plain style, Livy writes up dramatic and fiery speeches for his key protagonists, imagining what rhetoric they might have used to motivate their troops before battle.	2005-08-11
US	38399737	RUMPUV85NQME1	0679601406	849452523	The Big Sleep & Farewell, My Lovely (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The original detective noir genre that started it all	Raymond Chandler, the author, is the definitive writer of the detective genre.  His wise-cracking, earthy detective Philip Marlowe constantly sticks his nose into dangerous places, sometimes catching the far end of a swinging fist for his troubles.  And trouble is a euphemism for his working life.  His books led to the creation of several famous films with Humphrey Bogart playing Marlowe.  But having seen the movies, there is no comparison to the quality of Chandler's original prose. <br /> <br />Here are a few witty samples full of imagery from his books: <br />\\"I was neat, clean, shaved and sober, and I didn't care who knew it.\\" <br />\\"I was as empty of life as a scarecrow's pockets.\\" <br />\\"... he looked as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food.\\" <br />\\"He looked as nervous as a brick wall.\\" <br /> <br />Chandler's stories move fast and contain a lot of action, just like his protagonist.  Marlowe's character is a bit of a blue-collar cynic, an occasional ladies' man, a rebel, and a steadfast (but sometimes puzzlingly) honest man.  Marlowe is just an average guy who just happens to solve cases involving the rich and beautiful (and their dirty little secrets) in mid-twentieth century LA.  And I suppose Marlowe's fast-talking, action-oriented character is one most of us average guys could identify with, which accounts for the success of his books.   <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book - I don't usually like reading fiction - and highly recommend it.  Chandler really is a pleasure to read.  Why couldn't we have read something like this just once in my high school English lit classes!?	2005-06-28
US	38399737	RGAMZ915F2XSV	0199257272	244606373	Financing the First World War	Books	4	13	13	N	N	How combatant nations actually paid for WWI	This exhaustively researched book by Hew Strachan examines how the principal combatant nations during WWI (UK, France, Russia, Italy, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, and the Ottoman Empire) raised funds to pay for the war.  Chapters in the book include: The Gold Standard, Financial Mobilization, The Loss of Budgetary Control, Taxation, Domestic Borrowing, and Foreign Borrowing. <br /> <br />'The Gold Standard' explains the widely-accepted theory and practice of the pre-war international gold standard, which all the combatants were on prior to the war.  In 'Financial Mobilization' Strachan relates how each nation rapidly reacted to the 1914 August crisis, through overnight doubling of interest rates, suspensions of gold convertibility, restrictions on international funds transfers, closing of stock exchanges, etc.  The following chapter, 'The Loss of Budgetary Control' recounts how the immediate, insatiable, and highly volatile demands of total war continually frustrated attempts at financial forecasting, planning, and budgeting.   <br /> <br />In 'Taxation', Strachan does a great job of investigating and explaining different taxation schemes, not merely used to finance the war but also to control spiraling inflation.  Specifically, he discusses various taxes - income tax, war profits tax, consumption tax, supertax, luxury tax, land tax, state monopolies, etc. - and how well they performed in raising money and controlling inflation. <br /> <br />The last two chapters, 'Domestic Borrowing' and 'Foreign Borrowing', explain how gov'ts loaned from banks, issued treasury bills, and floated war bonds.  In addition, they discuss their effects on instigating/controlling inflation, interest rates, money supply, creditworthiness, and their ability to procure badly-needed foreign goods. <br /> <br />For a relatively short book (227 pages), Strachan manages to cover a lot of ground - it is packed full of information.  I enjoyed the book, but I found it difficult to follow some of the financial jargon (and I have a finance degree).  Also, the chapters should be subdivided by nation.  This thorough book cries out for some supplementary materials, specifically a glossary of terms and numerous supporting charts/graphs.  Without graphical comparisons, it is quite difficult to grasp the magnitude of difference between the combatants.  The book has an outstanding bibliography.  Overall, I recommend the book, but you will probably need a finance dictionary or online reference tool to understand everything.	2005-06-10
US	38399737	R2JKERI0CAJQZL	0002571854	563402326	The Ocean Railway: Isambard Kingdom Brunel, Samuel Cunard and the Revolutionary World of the Great Atlantic Steamships	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Delightful book about Atlantic steamship industry	Stephen Fox, the author, has done a masterful job in writing this well-researched book.  His writing is lucid, engaging, and informative.  Equally deft in vividly portraying personalities, describing technical challenges, and relating real-world business problems, Fox's history of the Atlantic steamship industry is guaranteed to please.  The book is as much an economic history as it is a social history. <br /> <br />Fox starts the book by describing a typical sailing ship journey across the Atlantic in the early 1800's.  A typical voyage is fraught with seasickness, stench, wetness, cold, monotony, and grave danger.  But as the burgeoning populations of Europe seek a safety valve to America, the era of steamships and great steamship captains arrives.  The book follows pioneering visionaries and their steamship lines; such as Samuel Cunard, Edward Collins, Isambard Kingdom Brunel (Great Western), William Inman, Thomas Ismay (White Star), Clement Griscom (American Steamship), Albert Ballin (Hamburg-American), and Hermann Meier (North German Lloyd).  Fox gives us a short personal history for each captain and his role in shaping his line. <br /> <br />Fox also goes on to describe the most important technical innovations the Atlantic steamship industry took up (paddle wheels, reciprocating steam engines, condensers, steam turbines, and screw propellers being the most significant) and the renowned contractors that produced these masterpieces of Victorian engineering.  But success was never guaranteed.  Shipwrecks could, and did happen, with consequent loss of life, money, and prestige.  Further, poor -and economically unrestrained - engineering could produce titanic boondoggles such as the 'Great Eastern' steamship. <br /> <br />Finally, the book has a great social element in describing life at sea for both passengers and crew.  Passengers in the first half of this great era often freely rubbed shoulders amongst people of all classes - something unusual in highly stratified Victorian society.  Fox compares the steamship as both a town (with all its diverse citizenry and occupations) as well as a functional building (with toilets, dining rooms, bedrooms, libraries, etc.).  He finishes by closely detailing two of the last great steamships - Lusitania and Mauretania. <br /> <br />This is a really fascinating history with colorful characters and difficult engineering challenges.  It has some great photos of these now vanished maritime colussae.  I highly recommend this book. <br />	2005-05-19
US	38399737	RBUYW9DNAAWK3	0671280058	409988318	Gardeners of Salonika	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Very rare English account on WWI Salonika front	This book is almost impossible to find, but I finally located it online after searching several times for it.  The book is mostly based on official sources and seems to present a somewhat sanitized version of events.  Its chapters cover: the early war plans, the arrival of the Allied soldiers on neutral (and vaguely hostile) soil, the miseries of Salonika's winters, political maneuverings in France and the UK involving Salonika, the 1916 battle for Monastir, political maneuverings in Greece, the failed 1917 spring offensive, the hunt for terrorist cells in the Serbian army, the mutiny of Russian units, the largely-British malarial sufferings, Sarrail's fall from power, Guillaumat's short reign, Franchet d'Esperey's arrival, the final (and successful) September 1918 offensive, the breakout to Belgrade/Sofia/Constantinople, and finally the veterans' coping with the jibes and jokes and neglect of their sacrifices in this forgotten corner of Europe. <br /> <br /> <br />The main question for the Allies regarding the Salonika expedition was always, \\"Will fighting in the Balkans lead to the defeat of the Central Powers?\\"  The author's conclusion is a qualified no.  The real decision came on the Western Front with Ludendorf's nervous breakdown and request for an armistice.  Once the other Central Powers got wind of Germany's desire to seek peace, Austria-Hungary, Bulgaria, and the Ottoman Empire all immediately lost their will to fight and urgently sought peace.  But the Salonika army did help in securing peace with Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire by providing a very real and immediate threat in their continuing the war.  Realistically, though, the Salonika \\"Armies of the Orient\\" would never pose a serious threat to the two main Central Powers. <br /> <br />This is one of the VERY FEW general histories of the Salonika front.  It has a few maps, but not enough and even these lack adequate detail.  There are also some interesting photos.  Happily, there is a thorough discussion of the bibliographical sources and a careful listing of them.  Overall, this is a fairly standard account of the most unconventional front of the war.  It does a good job of analyzing the Allied leaders involved in the campaign.	2005-05-19
US	38399737	R2DS0ICLLGU94B	0060195959	791156107	Transatlantic: Samuel Cunard, Isambard Brunel, and the Great Atlantic Steamships	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delightful book about Atlantic steamship industry	Stephen Fox, the author, has done a masterful job in writing this well-researched book.  His writing is lucid, engaging, and informative.  Equally deft in vividly portraying personalities, describing technical challenges, and relating real-world business problems, Fox's history of the Atlantic steamship industry is guaranteed to please.  The book is as much an economic history as it is a social history. <br /> <br />Fox starts the book by describing a typical sailing ship journey across the Atlantic in the early 1800's.  A typical voyage is fraught with seasickness, stench, wetness, cold, monotony, and grave danger.  But as the burgeoning populations of Europe seek a safety valve to America, the era of steamships and great steamship captains arrives.  The book follows pioneering visionaries and their steamship lines; such as Samuel Cunard, Edward Collins, Isambard Kingdom Brunel (Great Western), William Inman, Thomas Ismay (White Star), Clement Griscom (American Steamship), Albert Ballin (Hamburg-American), and Hermann Meier (North German Lloyd).  Fox gives us a short personal history for each captain and his role in shaping his line. <br /> <br />Fox also goes on to describe the most important technical innovations the Atlantic steamship industry took up (paddle wheels, reciprocating steam engines, condensers, steam turbines, and screw propellers being the most significant) and the renowned contractors that produced these masterpieces of Victorian engineering.  But success was never guaranteed.  Shipwrecks could, and did happen, with consequent loss of life, money, and prestige.  Further, poor -and economically unrestrained - engineering could produce titanic boondoggles such as the 'Great Eastern' steamship. <br /> <br />Finally, the book has a great social element in describing life at sea for both passengers and crew.  Passengers in the first half of this great era often freely rubbed shoulders amongst people of all classes - something unusual in highly stratified Victorian society.  Fox compares the steamship as both a town (with all its diverse citizenry and occupations) as well as a functional building (with toilets, dining rooms, bedrooms, libraries, etc.).  He finishes by closely detailing two of the last great steamships - Lusitania and Mauretania. <br /> <br />This is a really fascinating history with colorful characters and difficult engineering challenges.  It has some great photos of these now vanished maritime colossae.  I highly recommend this book. <br />	2005-05-19
US	38399737	R3VOKKSB198W6P	0801432391	479954560	A Question of Loyalty: Military Manpower Policy in Multiethnic States (Cornell Studies in Security Affairs)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Can subjected ethnic groups be trusted in the army?	The author, Alon Peled, examines the question as to whether or not subjected ethnic groups (i.e. 'trojan horses') can be trusted in the army.  Peled briefly cites the recent Yugoslavia conflict and Czechoslovakia in 1938 as two well-known examples of successful trojan horses.  The Yugoslav army disintegrated and was turned into a Serb ethnic militia, and the Czechoslovak gov't stood down under the combined threat of hostile German invasion and internal subversion by Sudeten Germans.  In the last section, he describes the horrendous ethnic genocide in Rwanda that could have been instantly quelled had Rwanda had a truly ethnically integrated military.  With this unnerving history, can subjected ethnic groups ever be trusted with weapons in their nation's army? <br /> <br />Peled looks at the three historical cases of ethic integration or disintegration within the military.  First, he examines how South Africa, even when under the severest terms of apartheid, managed to slowly but successfully integrate first coloreds, then Indians, and finally blacks into the SADF.  This highly-sensitive political issue in apartheid South Africa was handled very deftly by its leaders.  Singapore, on the other hand, started with a military almost purely staffed by an ethnic minority and wound up almost entirely excluding them (Muslim Malays) within Singapore's defense establishment.  And finally, Israel has integrated some ethnic groups (e.g. Druze, Christian Arabs) while continuing to exclude others (i.e. Muslim Arabs). <br /> <br />Peled defines two types of integration, horizontal and vertical.  Horizontal integration is basically the increase in number the number of ethnic enlisted soldiers, while vertical integration is the promotion of ethnic soldiers into positions of leadership and sensitive areas (intelligence, operations, etc.).  Peled states that for ethnic recruitment to be successful that horizontal integration must be followed by vertical integration.  If not, the subjected ethnic group feels used, remains alienated, and represents a continued threat to internal security. <br /> <br />This is an important book on a rarely discussed, but highly important, topic.  The description of the defense organizations in South Africa, Singapore, and Israel were quite interesting in and of themselves, while the ethnic integration/exclusion process was fascinating.  (Ethnic leaders often negotiate the recruitment of their youth with the dominant gov't leaders.)  I enjoyed this book, but more importantly, I believe that military manpower specialists will find this book an excellent introduction to the issue.	2005-04-23
US	38399737	RD7PX27YQ0L1H	0849381533	723289992	Principles of Kinesic Interview and Interrogation (Practical Aspects of Criminal and Forensic Investigations)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Recognize Deceptive Signals in Speech & Body Language	This thoroughly researched and practical book was written by Stan Walters, a retired police interrogation specialist with over 25 years' experience.  The purpose of his book is to help interrogators rely on highly successful and proven techniques in recognizing deceptive behaviors in speech quality, speech content, and especially body language.   <br /> <br />Too often, Walters observed other questioning officers depend on 'gut instinct', racial bias, intimidation, or pre-conceived notions of the interviewee's guilt.  Walters admits that police are surprisingly able to solicit false confessions, especially from mentally deficient or emotionally weak interviewees.  So, his ultimate goal is to help police identify the real perpetrators of crimes via the perpetrator's own truthful confession of guilt. <br /> <br />In the first theoretical half of the book, Walters introduces kinesic theory (i.e. recognizing non-verbal signals) and the five stages of stress response (anger, depression, denial, bargaining, acceptance).  Then he goes on to explain how these stress response stages can be identified in interviewee subjects and provides 90 photographs of subjects' body language movements.   <br /> <br />In the second practical half of the book, Walters gives specific instructions on how to conduct interrogations, especially by customizing each interview according to the interviewee's personality type. He also explains the pitfalls of what many 'traditional' interrogators do wrong and how to avoid them.  In addition, the interviewer and interviewee must speak the same native language and come from the same culture - often a problem for military interrogators. <br /> <br />This is an excellent practical textbook on how to conduct and secure a (truthful) confession, given a patient, practiced, and conscientious interviewer.  Walters admits, however, it still takes practice and involves a lot of hard work - always reading interviewees' behaviors.	2005-04-21
US	38399737	R3L8GOTTRTMISC	1591143535	161015312	You're Stepping on My Cloak and Dagger (Bluejacket Books)	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Roger Hall's comic experiences in the OSS	Hall's book is his funny story volunteering for, training in, and working within America's WWII OSS unit (pre-cursor to the modern CIA).  Like all good soldiers, Hall sought to escape the boredom, heat, and humidity of camp life for anything else.  So, he volunteered for the OSS - only knowing that at least it was something different and possibly dangerous - oh my! <br /> <br />The book takes us through numerous training assignments of Hall's - patrolling, ambushing, parachuting, espionage basics, infiltration into civilian organizations, and more.  Typical of most American WWII soldiers, he spent far more time training than he ever did in combat.  The most interesting sections of the book are his parachute and espionage training.  He describes both in fascinating detail.  It is quite funny to see how amateurish much of his spy training was - I suppose that's why the CIA would have liked for the book not to be published. <br /> <br />Hall writes in an irrevent and playful style that makes his book both fun and easy to read.  He is the type of original smart-ass that self-important superior officials love to hate.  I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, especially as it pokes fun at a rather serious business.	2005-04-21
US	38399737	RHDQ8VCU21UJB	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	3	6	13	N	N	A few days with partisans in the Spanish Civil War	According to the book's jacket, 'For Whom the Bell Tolls' is Hemingway's finest novel.  I disagree.  While the book does a fine job of describing the life of a partisan, its 490 pages only cover a few days' time.  So, don't expect a lot of fast-moving action.  This novel is basically a character study of the different persons in American volunteer Robert Jordan's hosting partisan band.  Therefore, if you enjoy character studies then you will indeed enjoy this book. <br /> <br />The plot is that Jordan is sent to blow up a bridge in the Spanish hinterland.  He is to contact a local partisan band and secure their assistance in helping him destroy the bridge.  Once he arrives at the band's secret refuge internal power struggles immediately begin as Jordan's mission will endanger the survival of all the band's members.  In addition, there is the inevitable romantic subplot between Jordan and the mysterious Maria. <br /> <br />Utilizing the flashback as a vehicle, Hemingway defines each actor's traumatic personal history, his/her decisions, and his character.  Jordan the idealistic young American university professor becomes the daring, charismatic, and ideologically indifferent demolitions expert.  Pablo the angry peasant becomes the murderous, avaricious guerilla leader.  Pilar the ugly yet happy wife of a diminutive bullfighter is widowed and becomes the overbearing, honorable wife of Pablo.  Maria the fragile, innocent virgin becomes the emotionally-scarred, vulnerable lover of Jordan.  Anselmo the venerable old peasant becomes the determined, brave guerilla fighter.  And so it goes with many of the other book's characters. <br /> <br />The book is a good character study and portrait of life as a Spanish partisan, but I found it to be much too slow moving for my taste.  This is decent novel, but it's not really a war novel.  In my opinion, Farewell to Arms is a much better war novel and is Hemingways's best book.	2005-04-20
US	38399737	R372WL0XZPWJD5	0375700463	116719555	Intelligence in War: The value--and limitations--of what the military can learn about the enemy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Keegan Analyzes the Value of Intelligence in Winning Wars	Does intelligence win wars?  No, but it helps, according to Keegan.  What ultimately matters most are: will, numbers, and material.  That is an honest conclusion, which obviously won't resonate too well with intelligence organizations like the NSA, CIA, MI6, FSB, Mossad, etc.  However, it should make political/ideological leaders and defense contractors happy. <br /> <br />Keegan examines the effect of intelligence in several campaigns/battles throughout the past 200 years - Nelson's pursuit of Napoleon in the Med, Jackson's Shenandoah Valley campaign, the Royal Navy hunt for Von Spee's squadron and for the Emden, Crete, Midway, the Atlantic U-boat campaign, and the search for Hitler's V-1 and V-2 weapons.  In conventional battle, the importance of intelligence lies in locating the enemy, determining his dispositions, and unveiling his intentions.  However, intelligence of itself doesn't win battles - even the best informed but outnumbered force will often be defeated by a stronger foe.  Keegan demonstrates that time and again. <br /> <br />Intelligence outside of battle, however, plays a more significant role.  It can provide users with orders-of-battle, advance warning of new weapons technology, the internal situation of one's enemies (or even allies).  And today, its value has increased dramatically thanks to modern electronic telecommunications, which can send info instantly across the world.  (However, this has proven to be a double-edged sword to commanders on the ground who must now also cope with continual - often counterproductive - interference from anxious superiors.)  In addition, the ease of electronic eavesdropping (signals intelligence - sigint) has caused Western intelligence agencies to rely almost exclusively on sigint to the detriment of human intelligence (humint). <br /> <br />In conclusion, I understand Keegan to say that intelligence is overrated as a tool to win battles.  Furthermore, Western intelligence agencies are perhaps dangerously over-reliant on sigint.  In their battle with al-Qaeda, they have been frustrated by an organization which has recognized this weakness and hence largely refuses to use modern telco technology.   <br />Overall, an interesting book, but what I just wrote above largely summarizes its findings.	2005-04-20
US	38399737	R91HUB9TYOOYD	0760320543	273166380	Lost Victories: The War Memoirs of Hitler's Most Brilliant General	Books	5	113	120	N	N	Gen. Manstein's Own Account of His Amazing WWII Victories	By the end of WWII, General von Manstein was widely recognized by most German soldiers as the Wehrmacht's most brilliant strategist, a man of honor, and easily the most obvious choice for the Wehrmacht's Commander-in-Chief.  Manstein was responsible for formulating most of the strategy that won Germany its great early victories using blitzkrieg tactics in Poland, France, and the Crimea.  From Fall 1942 - Spring 1944, Manstein's heroic efforts against hugely overwhelming odds consistently frustrated every attempt to cut off and destroy Germany's armies in the Ukraine.  With tight battlefield coordination, he focused his armies' efforts on the decisive point in each desperate Russian Front battle and ALWAYS snatched a tantalizingly close victory away from huge encircling Russian army groups. <br /> <br />Manstein recalls the internal struggles within the Wehrmacht regarding strategy formulation, internal organization, and resource allocation.  He was apparently one of the few German generals to seriously and openly challenge many of Hitler's decisions.  His analysis of Hitler as a military leader is quite fascinating and unusually balanced.  Manstein actually gives Hitler some credit in his strategic analysis.  But, Manstein also rightfully and strongly critiques Hitler's disorganized, dictatorial leadership and his increasingly blind faith in the power of will versus massive, well-supplied Soviet armies.  Time and time again, Hitler's interference in Manstein's army group operations left much of Manstein's forces perilously exposed to Soviet encirclement.  By Spring 1944, Hitler tired of Manstein's repeated demands for a Wehrmacht C-in-C and feared his increasing personal prestige - forcing Manstein's resignation and retirement from the army. <br /> <br />I've read several other books on the Eastern Front, as well as books on the Wehrmacht's internal organization, and I still learned a lot about the Russian Front battles.  Manstein analyzes Poland, France, the Crimea, Stalingrad, Operation Winter Storm, the fighting withdrawal from the Caucasus, Kursk, and his desperate battles in the Ukraine.  Sometimes the action is difficult to follow.  While there are several maps, the text often refers to locations not indicated on the map.  (My standard gripe - not enough detailed maps to go with the text.)  Overall, a well-written, informative, and excellent account of most of Germany's main war efforts by the man who was there leading them.	2005-04-20
US	38399737	R3RNKFAMJTLV1R	0786712074	145272549	As Far as My Feet Will Carry Me: The Extraordinary True Story of One Man's Escape from a Siberian Labour Camp and His 3-Year Trek to Freedom	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Absolutely amazing escape and survival story in Siberia!	Absolutely one of the best books that I have ever read!  There were times when my heart was literally racing while reading this book.  This is the story of one man's quest against both nature and man to reach his home - by foot, alone, walking west from the Bering Strait, destination: Germany!  Our man fights Siberian blizzards, relentless hunger, ravenous wolves, escaped convicts, and even manages to defy the immense, omnipresent dangers of the Soviet police state. <br /> <br />From beginning to end, the story leaps right out of the pages, and you can feel you are right there with Forell (the main character).  Forell is a German POW that has been sentenced to 25 years hard labor in a Soviet lead mine at the edge of human existence.  Of course, no one  lives more than a few years after mining lead - who cares anyway since they are enemies of the Soviet state.  After some time Forell and all his comrades slowly but inevitably begin to succumb to lead poisoning.  Shaking off the lead-induced apathy, Forell makes his grim resolution to reach Germany or die trying - there will be no surrender.  From then on we follow Forell's long, hard, and bitter journey to ultimate freedom.  After his labor camp ordeal, his trek across the wilds of Siberia, and his experience with Soviet-style civilization, even his own uncle is completely unable to recognize him. <br /> <br />Truly one of the best adventure stories ever told!!!  I never wanted to put the book down!	2005-03-31
US	38399737	R2UB5OWCQYDZ8H	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Cold War Danger Lurking Beneath the Seas	Starting with the nascent Cold War in the late 1940s and closing with recently declassified post-Cold War releases, the book traces American submarine espionage episodes with energy and humor.  American submarines were literally on the front lines of the Cold War, where more than a few were lost at sea.  The authors follow the first disastrous exploits of American diesel submariners in 1949 as they eavesdrop just off the Soviet coasts for signs of Soviet nuclear testing.  Though this first publicly-known incident ended in miserable and tragic failure, American submarine espionage would become a huge endeavor by the Cold War's end.   <br /> <br />Starting where the Germans left off with snorkeling diesel subs, the American navy began rapidly rebuilding its submarine fleet using nuclear power under the highly controversial Admiral Rickover.  Nuclear power largely relieved submarine crews of having to surface in hostile Soviet waters, which allowed them to avoid detection and 'push the envelope' ever further.  The authors present most important personalities (such as John Craven, John Bradley, Bobby Inman, Waldo Lyon, and many of the top sub commanders) and their contributions during this critical time.  <br /> <br />Among the most exciting episodes are the first ever multi-week trailing by Cdr Whitey Mack of the Yankee-class Soviet sub, tapping of undersea Soviet military phone cables, extended depth charging of the USS Gudgeon, and the CIA's misguided epic attempt of lifting an entire sunken Soviet attack sub to the surface from miles beneath the ocean.  This book also explains how quickly disaster can strike at sea either between rival subs 'playing chicken' under the sea or how fishing trawlers can be instantly sucked under by subs roaming the deep.  An excellent read that will opens our eyes to all we DIDN'T see during the Cold War. <br />	2005-01-15
US	38399737	R3FMNWRTLRZEVV	0060007761	568367162	The Gulag Archipelago: 1918-1956	Books	5	166	169	N	N	A voyage through hell	\\"The line between good and  evil runs through the heart of every human being.\\" <br /> <br />This abridged edition of Solzhenitsyn's hauntingly intimate portrait of his own arrest, interrogation, imprisonment, rebellion, and eventual release during Stalin's purges is a book like no other.  This book, written by a constantly watched and persecuted dissident - bent but not broken by the brutality of Stalinist work camps, shares the author's (and his other inmates') personal experiences falling into this dark, usually fatal, abyss.  Solzhenitsyn's original work was published in 1971 and produced an absolutely damning indictment of communism in Russia.  Indeed, the stunning quality and importance of his writing earned him a Nobel prize. <br /> <br />Besides his own experiences, Solzhenitsyn collected personal stories from hundreds of his fellow inmates.  The sadism of interrogators, the cruelty of guards, the indifference of neighbors, the paranoia of the public, the  betrayal of stoolies, and the true comradery of innocent inmates are presented in vivid, factual detail.  In addition to this, the author also presents an encyclopeadic knowledge of the entirety of the gigantic Stalinist security apparatus (normal labor camps, special labor camps, transfer camps, railroad transfers, prisons, holding cells, interrogation cells, NKVD, SMERSH, commissars, exile communities, and still more). <br /> <br />But at the heart of it all, the book remains an unforgettable journey through man-made hell.  Stalin meant to destroy every man, woman, and child arrested, regardless of their innocence, and he largely succeeded.  But survivors like Solzhenitsyn did truly 'tear down the wall' and made this world a far better place to live in.  We all owe him a huge debt of gratitude!	2005-01-15
US	38399737	R2WYKJN2Y4U5H	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Life, love and, ultimately, survival in WWI Italy	One of Hemingway's most popular books; I would say it is his best.  The characters and the story are true to life and are written in a deceptively simple style.  With Hemingway there are subtle signposts that prefigure each character's destiny and this book is no exception.  It follows the experiences of an American ambulance driver in Cadorna's army (based on the author's own experiences in WWI Italy).<br /><br />Lieutenant Frederic Henry serves on the blood-soaked Isonzo front, although the book makes only minor mention of his work there.  Instead, it is about his love for Catherine Barkley - birds of a feather flock together.  Both the characters have left prospering homes in search of adventure (or rather escape from boredom and convention).<br /><br />The love story is the main theme of the book.  And during their moments together the characters say all the same trite, often contrived, things to each other.  It is real, but is it also a subtle mockery?  And we get to share Henry's innermost thoughts and questions regarding Cat.  Henry gets wounded and is sent back to Milan to recoup.  Cat rejoins him there, and they live an almost domestic life together in the hospital.  After several months, his body has recouped, but he no longer wishes to tempt death in the war.  Nevertheless, he rejoins his unit in time for the Italian army's headlong retreat during the Caporetto offensive.<br /><br />Henry's retreat is, in my opinion, far and away the most intense and exciting part of the book.  Henry's unit, along with the rest of the Italian army, largely melts away and his story becomes one of desperate and daring personal survival.  He manages to get back to Cat and escape to Switzerland with her.  But there is a still another catch.	2005-01-15
US	38399737	RAA92SK5IF0JC	0399145761	539869630	What if...?	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fairly realistic alternative history scenarios	When I saw the title for this book, I must admit that I was pretty sceptical of the thesis of the book.  'What if' scenarios infinitely abound throughout history, but even the most unlikely of situations can and does occur in reality.  The problem with hypothetical scenarios is that they are often analyzed in a rather unrealistic context.  In reality, if an unexpected defeat or victory does occur it only rarely decisively concludes a war.  Most of the time the opponents refuse to admit defeat and continue their struggle despite the likely ultimate outcome.  Still, I thought that many of the scenarios, especially the ones on WWI, WWII, and the Cold War, were expertly written and devastatingly realistic. <br /> <br />Each of the 20 scenarios is written by a noted historian who examines the most significant hypothetical scenario during the era he or she covers.  Starting off with a successful Assyrian siege of Jerusalem scenario, the book ends with a capitalist mainland China absorbing an impoverished Communist Manchuria.  But the meat of the book examines the struggles of the traditionally Western powers.  Two scenarios covering the American Revolution really highlight exactly how truly fortunate the US was ever to come into existence.  Washington, Cortes, and Nimitz might have been resolutely determined, but they were also incredibly fortunate to win against massive odds. <br /> <br />To give you an idea of the quality of writing for this book, one needs only look to the list of its contributors - Keegan, Ambrose, Horne, McCullough and many more historians are included.  Overall, the writing style was great, but of course with so many contributors the quality of analysis varied writer by writer.  My favorite scenario, though, was the Cold War's 'Funeral in Berlin' by David Clay Large who illustrated just how fatally close the superpowers came to a violent - and most probably nuclear - confrontation.	2004-11-09
US	38399737	R1AO3UFHYJ62FC	0304359491	539644593	Paths of Glory: The French Army 1914-1918	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding Summary of French Army During WWI	The book summarizes all the famous major operations of the French Army during WWI, along with numerous thoughtfully-included maps and photos.  It goes into much greater detail about the formation of French strategy, tactical doctrine, leading personalities, organization, equipment, logistics, and, significantly, unit morale (including the 1917 mutinies).  In addition, the book also has a nice set of appendices with the August 1914 order-of-battle as well as summary bios of leading French generals.  The author, Anthony Clayton, also covers the power struggles at the top of the military hierarchy between major military figures along with increasing interference from French gov't officials.  Clayton did an excellent job describing Petain, Joffre, Mangin, Castelnau, and Foch. <br /> <br />This book is an ideal introduction to the major challenges facing the French army during WWI and its response to them.  An English-language book covering the French army during WWI is somewhat difficult to find compared to the numerous works on the British army, and I was highly pleased with the quality of this one.  Excellent, well-researched work!  I hope the author makes an in-depth follow up sequel to this one.	2004-11-09
US	38399737	R2MDO1BOGL1KJ4	1557507228	551656346	Raiders of the Deep (CLASSICS OF NAVAL LITERATURE)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	U-boat Aces Tell Their Stories	Llowell Thomas, the American reporter commissioned to cover WWI by President Woodrow Wilson, gathered material for this book in the mid-1920s from face-to-face interviews with the Kriegsmarine U-boat commanders.  These were men who, despite the terrible odds of against them, were lucky enough to survive the war.  The book is divided into 36 chapters, each of which is usually a fascinating submarine combat story as recalled by the actual U-boat commander or one of his officers.  But this is not a comprehensive history of WWI submarines.  Most of the interviewees were Germany's leading submarine aces during the war - Hersing, Weddigen, Speiss, Arnauld de la Pierre, Hartwig, Hashagen, Spiegel, and Schweiger - or of their immediate surviving subordinates. <br /> <br />The book relates how 10 years' after the war Thomas interviewed each korvettenkapitan (the rank of most U-boat commanders) at their offices, pubs, hotels, homes, and even in the very Naval Club where the U-boat commanders met during the war (p. 133).  Many famous sinkings (including the liners Lusitania and Arabic, the battleships Triumph and Majestic, the old armored cruisers Hogue, Cressy and Aboukir), submarine activity off the American coast, and countless forgotten stories are recounted.   <br /> <br />Most of the stories are gripping in their detail of the truly dangerous life aboard one of Wilhelmine Germany's early 'iron coffins'.  Engine failure, erratic diving behavior, asphyxiation, ramming attacks, minefields, depth charges, Q-ships, and even enemy submarines were just some of the everyday risks intrepid U-boat crews continually faced.  Despite all the risks, some U-boat commanders, notably Arnauld de la Pierre, still adhered to the chivalrous prize rules in theatres where they could such as the Mediterranean.  But even the most dangerous of enterprises also has it's share of unbelievably ridiculous and humorous situations - 'baby on board', searches for fresh vegetables, sailors' superstitions, etc. <br /> <br />This is a popular history book - very few notes, no bibliography or confirmation of the witness' stories - written by a contemporarily popular reporter in 1928.  So, don't expect any academic features except an index.  But that's not the point of this book anyway.  The reason Thomas wrote the book was to finally tell the story from the Germans' perspective, which of course was absolutely impossible during the war itself.  After tempers had cooled 10 years on, this book and other ones like it giving the German version of events were greedily consumed by the British and American publics.	2004-11-09
US	38399737	R2SF2ITA8RM1AK	0140022155	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Verdun: Falkenhayn's Soul-Crushing Machine	By all accounts, this book is a classic and is widely quoted in most contemporary books on World War I.  The author, Alistair Horne, does a suberb job analyzing and reporting the entire terrifying, brutal battle.  Horne starts off by first by explaining the French army's proclivity for reckless offensive action, despite its abysmal record since the war's beginning.  Then Horne examines Falkenhayn and his reason for choosing the attrition strategy, i.e. the impossibility of decisive breakthrough on the Western Front.   (Incidentally, Falkenhayn's breakthrough assessment -not strategy - was probably correct.  A war-winning breakthrough on the Western Front was a mirage for the entire war.)  <br /> <br />The book outlines the German's extensive and rapid build up of human and material resources and their careful security measures.  But most importantly, each of the leaders (Falkenhayn, Joffre, Crown Prince, Knobelsdorf, de Castelnau, Petain, Neville, Mangin) involved is thoughtfully evaluated and their actions involved in the battle scrutinized. With these critical elements in place, Horne then goes on to give a blow-by-blow account of all the important actions ( during the siege-like battle.  The most fascinating account involves the capture of Fort Vaux; Raynal and his French defenders fanatically defied the Germans' in a week's worth of unbelievably desperate underground fighting.   <br /> <br />Horne's outstanding book is probably the best battle account of World War I, well-researched and engagingly written.  The book has a few maps and several photos which show the battleground and the principal military leaders.  Horne gives Petain credit for his vital logistical groundwork in initially organizing woefully inadequate French defenses.  He also shows us that Knobelsdorf, the Crown Prince's chief-of-staff, was the real villain who refused to call off the German attacks despite massive casualties and lack of progress.  The book ends by giving a brief history of eachof the leaders after the battle, which I found very satisfying.  I heartily recommend this excellent book!	2004-10-13
US	38399737	RIF9JYQFRU9B	1572491582	617203700	Forward, March!: Memoirs of a German Officer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	German Officer's Western & Eastern Front Diary	Although the book suffers from a dull title and cover, it does, in fact, make very interesting and enlightening reading.  The book is actually a German wartime diary that has been translated into English by the original writer's daughter.  As a first person account written by a devoted and decorated German officer, Ernst Rosenhainer, it provides a rare glimpse for the English speaker into everyday German life during the heyday of the Second Reich.  The diarist is an aristocratic gentleman who is working as a teacher at the outbreak of war.  The book follows his experiences through both famous battles, e.g. Namur, Masurian Lakes, Lodz, Verdun, and Kerensky Offensive, and minor actions. <br /> <br />We see the world through Rosenhainer's eyes.  One of the most unique aspects of the book are the descriptions of life on both the Western and Eastern Fronts.  Although life on the stationary Western Front is more materially comfortable, it is much more impersonal and deadly with masses of enemy artillery, machine guns, and snipers.  Although Eastern Front living is primitive by comparison, Rosenhainer and his men manage to create a congenial atmosphere.  Unlike the Western Front, fighting the Russians, although occassionally brutal and bitter, is much less intense, usually brief and exciting firefights followed by days of marching/bivouacing.  Indeed, from reading the book I get the impression that combat in Russian Poland was much more tolerable than anywhere on the Western Front (unlike during WWII). <br /> <br />The book contains numerous Eastern Front photos not found elsewhere and numerous maps obtained from German war archives.  Rosenhainer's observations and somewhat prejudiced opinions also provide an insight into Germany's civilizing mission for Europe.  Reading this book, I was able to visualize how combat actions actually transpired on the Eastern Front.  This book is one of the very few books I have seen which recounts life on the Eastern Front, and it is wellworth reading.	2004-10-13
US	38399737	R2F8QUT722E5ZB	0275972046	782187207	Isonzo: The Forgotten Sacrifice of the Great War	Books	4	9	16	N	N	WWI Austria gives Italy a gashed, bloody nose	During World War I, the one place where the Austro-Hungarian armies did fight tooth and nail (often to the last man) was the Isonzo.  Millions of Italian soldiers were driven straight into the gunsights of Austria's fanatical defenders and literally mowed down, again and again.  In fact, there were a total of 11 Italian-initiated battles on the Isonzo with the early ones often mere uncoordinated slaughters of brave but green conscripts.  However, during almost every battle many Austrian units were heavily decimated by shelling and what few Austrian reserves existed were instantly committed.  The typical result was that squads and platoons of determined and courageous men often held off hundreds (even thousands) of attacking Italians.  In a war noted for its bitterness and bloodshed, few battlefields carried a reputation as evil as the Isonzo's. <br /> <br />Despite the Italians' initial amateurism, they did manage to slowly learn from their mistakes.  The sixth, tenth, and the eleventh battles absolutely pushed the Austrian forces to the breaking point.  More than once there were gaping holes in the Austrian lines.  And with just ONE defeat by the Italians, the entire Austrian army could have been rapidly overwhelmed and destroyed.  So dangerous did the situation become that the Austrians twice tried counteroffensives (even though being outnumbered and outgunned), once at Asiago and once at Caporetto.  With German assistance, the Austrian army astounded the world and shocked the Allies by its stunning and complete victory over the Italians at Caporetto.  Only Austria's complete military and economic exhaustion allowed the Italians to 'walkover' Austrian forces at Vittorio Veneto. <br /> <br />The author's colorful language and in-depth research make this an interesting book to read.  I really came away with an appreciation of the Austrian army after reading the book.  It only required the will to fight to become a surprisingly effective combat force.  However, the Italian army, although containing many valiant soldiers, was horribly led and treated.  Indeed, so draconian was Italian leadership under Cadorna that it often resorted to the old Roman practice of decimating many units (i.e. randomly shooting every tenth soldier).  Isonzo is perhaps the only currently widely published English-language book on the subject.  And it is well worth reading!	2004-10-05
US	38399737	R2DG1DB4A9TJEC	1572492139	88388053	Three Wings for the Red Baron : Von Richthofen, Strategy, Tactics, and Airplanes	Books	5	14	15	N	N	WWI Aerial Combat - A Technical Analysis	Wow!  A real in-depth analysis of World War I aerial combat and the Fokker triplane's role in it.  The author, Leon Bennett, is a retired aeronautical engineer.  And he does an outstanding job of explaining the challenges of rudimentary (and dangerous) WWI flying.  With an unbiased and unsentimental perspective, Bennett conducts an insightful (and readable) technical analysis of the triplane against its biplane and monoplane opponents.  In addition, Bennett relates why Richthofen decided to switch to the triplane after a long and spectacularly successful career in the Albatros biplane series.  With a copious array of graphs and diagrams, Bennett clearly and concisely explains numerous technical issues to the layman.  And he always reiterates the effects of the human element and environmental factors in tactics, strategy, and aircraft procurement. <br /> <br />I was very impressed with this book - I read it in just two days.  The first chapter about Richthofen's death appears to be a bone thrown by the publisher, aiming to popularize the book a bit.  The thoughtfully interspersed photos and posters throughout the book provide short mental breaks between technical discussions.  I highly recommend it!	2004-10-05
US	38399737	R9XV64ZGQXAU0	0375760520	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Political Idealism Meets Real-Politik	Margaret MacMillan won numerous prizes and recognition for her book and with good reason.  Her book takes an historical subject, i.e. the Treaty of Versailles, and breaths life and vitality into the intriguing characters at Versailles and beyond.  Unlike so many accounts of the much-maligned Versailles Treaty, MacMillan gives the treaty creation process a thorough and honest appraisal.  Like all human endeavors, the treaty was a product of its creators, principally Wilson, Lloyd George, and Clemenceau, and all the contemporary pressures they faced.  The second-guessing and 20/20 hindsight of many modern day authors really fails to appreciate the conditions of upheaval, unprecedented change, and lack of enforcement power on the ground which the peacemakers faced. <br /> <br />The book begins with an enlightening, chapter-length personality and character review for each of the three peacemakers.  From this segment the reader can grasp the varying perspectives of each leader and his goals for the peace.  Wilson wants his League of Nations, Lloyd George sets out to expand the British Empire, and Clemenceau is determined to emasculate Germany's military threat to France.  The following part then looks at the popular mandate given to the peacemakers from people all over the world for 'a just and fair peace for all', the question of Bolshevik Russia, the League of Nations, and the concept of League mandates.  The remainder of the book is organized by regions with a chapter each covering the more significant nations discussed in the treaty (Yugoslavia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Japan, China, Greece, Iraq, Syria, Israel, and Turkey).  And, of course, there is a detailed investigation of the treaty with Germany, which covers territories to be ceded, reparations, war guilt, arms limitations, etc. <br /> <br />MacMillan's focus on the individual personalities and their constituent political pressures reveals how and why the treaty's provisions originated.  And she does a wonderful job of demonstrating how the enlightened ideals of 'Professor' Wilson quickly clashed with the European world of real-politik, secret wartime treaties, and countless practical considerations.  While many new eastern European nations were founded on the principle of self-determination, these new nation-states exhibited a profound capacity to be more aggressive and rapacious than the defunct empires they replaced.  Indeed, while the Big Three haggled over borders in far away lands, their decisions were often simply ignored by troops on the ground.  (Diplomatic power ultimately rests on military muscle.)  In addition, there was still much old-fashioned imperial, land-grabbing camouflaged as League mandates by the victorious European combatants, especially in the increasingly important Near and Middle East.  Finally, despite the idealism expressed in Wilson's famous 14 Points, there was certainly no doubt that Germany was really being punished. <br /> <br />Despite all its shortcomings, the Versailles Treaty did help millions of people finally realize their nationalist dreams out of the ruins of the defeated empires.  Most of these nations still exist, although some countries have further sub-divided into multiple states (e.g. Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia) while the for other peoples unified national existence still remains but a fantasy (Kurds, Armenians).  And Germany, though punished, was treated much better than every one of the countries it defeated (e.g. Russia, Romania).  The primary fault with the treaty lay not so much in the German punitive provisions, as the Allied government's later unwillingness to enforce them and the dangerous consequences thereof.  In short, this book gives a realistic look about how deals (e.g. international treaties) are really made and what the Versailles Treaty actually created.	2004-09-06
US	38399737	R1R6C0T1ZMJI14	0316330116	154225661	On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Groundbreaking book on battlefield psychology	This groundbreaking book masterfully examines battlefield psychology and the individual soldier's emotional struggle through violence.  The author, Lt. Col Dave Grossman, is both a psychiatrist and a lieutenant colonel in the US army.  Using decades of interviews with veterans (especially those from Vietnam), he unravels an extremely complex mix of conflicting emotional states and responses.   <br /> <br />Grossman starts with the basic psychology of fight vs. flight and adds in a couple more options of posture or submit (straight from the animal kingdom and surprisingly applicable even in combat situations).  He then references SLA Marshall's low firing statistics for WWII (15-20%) and Korean War(40%), comparing them to Vietnam (90%), and explains how vastly improved conditioning prepared Vietnam soldiers to pull the trigger.  Then he goes on to explain the very numerous reasons why soldiers are reluctant to kill their fellow man.  With this foundation, Grossman then discusses post-combat killing trauma, the dramatic effect of physical distance between killer and victim, peer pressure, authoritarian demands, how committing atrocities really does force soldiers to become ever more ruthless, the killing response stages, and the uniquely dreadful experience Vietnam vets had to deal with upon their return to the US. <br /> <br />The last section of the book then argues how increasingly graphic violence and gore in movies and videogames is desensitizing children and young people to violence.  I must admit that I was VERY SKEPTICAL of this last claim, but the author makes some truly compelling arguments.  The best one is on p. 328, \\"...television executives have for years claimed that they are not capable of influencing our actions or changing behavior, but for decades America's major corporations have paid them billions of dollars for a paltry few seconds or a minute to do just that.\\"  Then take a lot at the graph displaying an exponential increase in aggravated assaults since the late 1950's to the present (coincidental with the rise of TV?). <br /> <br />Battlefield psychology is perhaps one of the least documented but most important aspects of combat.  Grossman's book makes an outstanding contribution to this field.  I am sure this will become a classic in military leadership circles.	2004-09-01
US	38399737	RHJMDTQU2ID6W	0275949729	231103586	On Infantry (The Military Profession Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Interesting survey of modern infantry's evolution	This is one of a series of surveys by Bruce Gudmundsson on different combat arms.  (This book also has John English as a co-author.)  As always, Gudmundsson's books are informative and delightfully easy to read.  In this book the authors examine the evolution of infantry tactics resulting from the massive increase in firepower as muskets gave way to rifles and then to automatic weapons, in addition to the vast array of supplementary infantry weapons (i.e. grenades, anti-tank weapons, mortars, etc.).   <br /> <br />They start off by looking at the effects of dispersing troops in open order to mitigate casualties and different armies' responses to this organizational and mental requirement.  As the machine gun speedily became ubiquitous early on in World War I, some armies adjusted rapidly and easily, such as the Germans, while others lagged behind, e.g. British, Americans.  English and Gudmundsson examine and compare the tactical infantry doctrines and small-unit organizations of the French, German, Russian, British, Japanese and American armies of World War II.  Also examined are the Chinese Army from the Korean War and the Vietnam-era American army.  In each case, they utilize real battlefield examples to demonstrate how this doctrine was actually put into practice, how effective the chosen tactics were, and their strengths and weaknesses (e.g. the American army's reliance on firepower instead of expert technique).  They also examine the importance of psychological conditioning in preparing infantry soldiers for 'the emptiness of the battlefield'.  The concluding chapter then briefly examines how different modern armies have organized their infantry arms, e.g. by reducing mechanization & heavy equipment. <br /> <br />This was a great survey on infantry organization and tactical doctrine.  I highly recommend it as a brief introduction to the infantry arm.  A more detailed study by Gudmundsson of the evolution of small-unit tactics can be found in 'Stormtroop Tactics'.	2004-09-01
US	38399737	RFQNKEDGI1DWQ	0340323450	803592381	The Last Corsair: Story of the "Emden"	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating, real-life adventure story on the high seas	The book follows the adventurous and successful exploits of the last practitioner of 'cruiser warfare', Imperial Germany's SMS Emden.  The intrepid German light cruiser boldly sallied out of her Tsingtao, China port at the beginning of World War I and single-handedly conducted a strikingly effective and highly spirited anti-shipping campaign in the Indian Ocean.  While being pursued by countless enemy warships, the plucky Emden managed to capture and/or destroy 16+ merchant and warships.  During her spectacular, though short-lived, three-month career, she scored painful material losses and prestige points on British forces in the Indian Ocean region.  But she also won a rare German propaganda success by adhering to traditional, Napoleonic-era 'prize rules', earning the admiration of neutral nations and even enemy sailors. <br /> <br />But the ship's success record is only half the story.  The officers and men of the Emden proved what a few determined men can do in the face of the most daunting odds.  The ship's landing party, led by the ship's intrepid executive officer von Mucke, found itself stranded on a tiny island in the Indian Ocean, thousands of miles away from the nearest 'friendly' Turkish territory in the Arabian Peninsula.  Incredibly, with the ships of the British and Australian navies soon to be in hot pursuit, the landing party commandeered a wind-powered schooner to make their getaway.  With the aid of some of their countrymen, the landing party transfered to an unseaworthy merchant vessel to reach the scorching sands of Arabia.  But in this supposedly 'friendly' territory they fought off hordes of Arab bandits and several dangerously conniving Turkish officials on their way to the nearest railhead a thousand miles away.  After an epic journey, the survivors were feted in grand style in Constantinople. <br /> <br />The writer, Dan Van Der Vat, is a journalist by trade, and his prose is always direct, engaging, and immensely enjoyable.  This is a remarkable modern tale of bravery and chivalry set in 1914, even more suprising as its protagonists are the oft-derided, supposedly unscrupulous, Germans.  The narrative is well complemented with a set of some elegant photos - though more photos of the personalities involved would have been nice.  This book is an outstanding narrative unit history of one of WWI's most famous and successful ships.  I highly recommend this book.	2004-08-31
US	38399737	R3OM4A9G8ZYEMT	1591148898	726274365	U-Boat Hunters: Code Breakers, Divers and the Defeat of the U-Boats, 1914-1918	Books	2	5	5	N	N	A Mistitled, Difficult-to-Follow Book	Personally, I was disappointed in this book.  The book's subtitle \\"Code Breakers, Divers, and the Defeat of the U-Boats, 1914-1918\\" led me to believe this would be a more comprehensive treatment of the WWI anti-submarine campaign.  Instead, I found lots of very short, clipped individual accounts which certainly lacked a coherent, intelligible, smoothly-flowing narrative.  I found it confusing.  The book makes countless references to German ciphers, marine locations, personalities, and individual German submarines.  Unfortunately, it fails to present these references in an intelligible manner.  For example, the book needs a chronological chart for the German ciphers, numerous maritime maps for the geographical references, and an explicit explanation of the differences between U, UB, UC boats, including mission types, armament, displacement, etc.  Also, the book lacks an effective, overall analysis of how the anti-submarine campaign was conducted and led. <br /> <br />This work is really a reference book, not a narrative history.  It lists underseas cable-cutting operations, salvage diving operations (and cipher recoveries) on U-boat wrecks, and numerous accounts of U-boat sinkings.  The last third of the book is set in a much more readable, interesting narrative format.  Perhaps the book's greatest strength is that it was well-researched from multiple, mostly British sources, and documented with many explanatory notes. <br /> <br />In summary, this book is a good supplementary reference work on the anti-submarine campaign during WWI.  However, this book is quite difficult to follow if you are not already throughly familiar with German codes, maritime geography, and the German submarine classes.  Don't make this the first book you read on the WWI submarine campaign.  A better title for this book would have been \\"List of WWI German submarine sinkings, mining actions, cable-cutting operations, and cipher recovery efforts\\".	2004-08-31
US	38399737	R1MR108JW3716D	1874622701	674100202	Imperial German Army 1914-18: Organisation, Structure, Orders of Battle	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Valuable, Rare English-Language Reference on WWI German Army	This book methodically and thoroughly delivers exactly what it promises.  And this English-language book is a rare treasure, because there are very few books which cover this subject in English.   <br /> <br />Starting from the pinnacle of the entire German war machine with the Kaiser himself, the book details the command structure, unit responsibilities, and specific composition for the entire imperial German army.  Following through its top-down progression it covers: the Supreme Army Command, the War Ministry, Supreme Commander East, the army groups, the armies, the general (corps) commands, and the divisions.  The book also unravels numerous mysteries, such as the bewildering array of unit naming conventions, the creation and dissolution of temporary commands, the large array of unit types, the varying armament compositions between unit types, the growth of the air force, and all the administrative and logistical elements which are essential to any modern armies battlefield success.  In addition, it presents several appendices which list: the complete German order-of-battle (OOB) for August 1914, the 18th Army's OOB for the March 1918 Kaiserschlacht Offensive, a summary list of brigade and mobile unit formations throughout the war, and a listing of all the army and higher level unit commanders throughout the war. <br /> <br />The book tackles a very daunting subject and quite lucidly explains the inner workings of the German war machine.  If you want to know how the German army was structured during the First World War, then this is the book for you.  The book suffers from a few weaknesses (but its valuable content overrides these).  The most annoying thing about the book are the incorrect dates found throughout the first part of the book (e.g. p. 79 \\"During the 1918 offensive, General of Cavalry von der Marwitz was in command.  The 2nd Army was dissolved on 13 January 1918 in Gembloux.\\").  I actually sent an email to the publisher months ago about this but still have yet to receive a response.  The other significant complaint I have is that the writing style is very dry and dull, but it is a reference work after all. <br /> <br />In summary, I recommend you buy this book if you are doing scholarly research on the WWI German army.  If you are looking for a narrative history or the complete German orders-of-battle for all the individual battles during the war, then look elsewhere.  All in all, this is an outstanding and rare English-language reference work on the WWI German army.	2004-08-12
US	38399737	R34932U0MNJH0A	0452283671	859633611	Silent Night: The Story of the World War I Christmas Truce	Books	1	22	64	N	N	Boring, Disorganized, and Highly Repetitive	I have read over 40 books about World War I, and this is the worst book I've ever read on the subject.  The book is boring, disorganized, and relentlessly pursues it pacifist agenda.  The book is repititous ad nauseaum.  In the author's attempt to convince his readers that the ordinary soldiers didn't want to fight, he presents a huge number of barely discernible short stories and excerpts throughout the book.  The text is erratic and disorganized.  This unconvincing book seems not like the work of a published author, but the work of a human psychology student's term paper.  Much of the book simply consists of word-for-word extracts from other published media.  Ignore the positive reviews on the back cover - it's clear these reviewers didn't read more than the first few pages.  This book isn't worth the paper it's printed on!	2004-08-12
US	38399737	R3KJCANO8W5VPA	0340824344	962468254	Cosa Nostra: A History of the Sicilian Mafia	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Incredible Insight into the Sicilian Underworld	This well-researched and fascinating book covers the history of the Sicilian Mafia from it origins in the 1860's until the present day.  The author, John Dickie, obviously spent a lot of time researching an organization, which actually goes out of its way to remove all traces of its existence.  The book exposes a lot of myths and corrects some common misconceptions about the Mafia, e.g. the Mafia started not in a poverty stricken area but actually in a prospering lemon-export region of Sicily.  And thankfully the author presents two maps, one of western Sicily and one of Italy, right at the beginning so the reader can easily follow the geographical references throughout the text.   <br /> <br />The text is separated into chronological segments in which the Mafia's rise is set into historical and political context.  The author exposes how the Mafia operates - extorting storefront businesses, infiltrating wealthy commercial enterprises, buying politicians/judges/policemen, smuggling goods, and of course murdering.   The author sets right a very important misconception, i.e. the Mafia only kill each other.  That is wrong.  The Mafia will threaten/intimidate/kill ANYONE (including honest citizens, women, and even small children) who stands in their way.  Organized crime and the terrorism it creates, as the author points out again and again, can only thrive at the connivance of protecting officialdom (at times even including the US gov't) and the usual apathy of the citizenry. <br /> <br />The book introduces us to the Mafia's major figures throughout its history, such as Baron Turrisi Colonna, Cola Gentile, the Greco Family, Don Calo Vizzini, Salvatore Guiliano, Tomasso Buscetta, Lucciano Leggio, Toto Riina, Bernardo 'the Tractor' Provenzano, and many more.  It also introduces us to the really courageous men (and women) who actively fought it, such as Dr. Galati, Ermanno Sangiori, Emmanuele Notarbartolo, Cesare Mori, Judge Giovanni Falcone, Peppino Impastato, Guiseppa di Sano, and many more. <br /> <br />The book ends discussing the possible links between one of Prime Minister Berlusconi's lieutenants and the Mafia.  From what I can understand from the book, the Mafia is truly scared when it loses its political backing.  This happened a couple times throughout its history, and it was devastating for the Mafia, i.e. during Mussolini's reign and in the late 80's and early 90's.  The Mafia can be defeated, but everyone has to make a stand - zero tolerance.  This even happened in the Mafia's heartland in Palermo, producing real results. <br /> <br />This was a great book!  I highly recommend it.	2004-08-12
US	38399737	RN05OB3V2IX66	0091888875	498898869	Forgotten Voices Of The Great War	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fascinating wartime experiences by those who fought it	This book is full of fascinating wartime anecdotes given by the soldiers fighting it and the citizens involved in it.  The staff of the UK's Imperial War Museum sifted through mountains of archives and picked out the very best to use in the book.  Through the use of their own personal letters/interviews, the book follows the history of particular, mostly British, individuals during the war.  It loosely follows the major battles of the Western Front and Gallipoli and even the Home Front.  <br />Most of the letters vary in length between one paragraph and one page and are packed with the kind of realistic details that typical narrative histories of the World War I skip over.  For example, in Gallipoli (p. 118) one soldier writes, &quot;One of the biggest curses was flies.  Millions and millions of flies. ... Immediately you bared any part of your body you were smothered.&quot;  Short of actually being there, these kind of first person participant narratives deliver the essence of the war - harsh, demanding, brutal, comedic, and ocassionally surreal.  The straightforward writing styles and unusual content make this book a true pleasure to read.<br />I have read over 40 books about the Great War, and this book is one of the best for personal narratives about the war.  It's multi-person perspective delivers a well-balanced, insightful picture of the war at ground level (free of any hidden agenda).  This book would perfectly complement a broad narrative history of World War I.	2004-07-11
