US	38438151	R23BRZIANBE511	1933009004	721196939	Winter Dance: Select Ice Climbs in Southern Montana and Northern Wyoming	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful, well-built book!	It's obvious that the author has perused plenty of climbing books and learned from the successes and failures of others. This is a gorgeous book, with concise route descriptions that are informative without wrecking the adventure of the climbs themselves. The photos are clear and useful and the book is well-organized. I have climbed a few of the longer routes in Cody as well as several in Montana and have yet to find any inaccuracies. 99% of the book is about routes - the obligatory stuff about local ethics and history is interesting but brief, unlike some guidebooks that fill half their pages with Leave No Trace advice. <br /> <br />Highly recommended for all ice climbers interested in seeing the Yellowstone ecosystem from high on an ice climb!	2005-08-23
US	38438151	R1GBCMRC8DLRNF	0060742860	54363195	It's All Right Now: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Reward Yourself With This Book	Let me start by saying it is 100 degrees around here, my air conditioning is broken, and I am sweating like Patrick Ewing.  <br />Yet I am still going to give this book the VERY RARE 5 Stars. I love the glacial pacing of the character development, the deliberate advancing of the plot, and the way Chadwick does sadness. It will make you ache. <br /> <br />Perhaps those who don't care for this book prefer the leaden dialogue and Must See TV pacing of foul crap like \\"Angels and Demons.\\" Who knows? Put on some Ahmad Jamal, pour a glass or ten of wine, and get lost in the world of Tom Ripple.	2005-08-17
US	38438151	R27HBI9BV7YHEB	0743264452	993613231	Killing Yourself to Live: 85% of a True Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pour Some Klosterman on Me!	Unlike other reviewers, I am pleased that this book wasn't as advertised. Who needs another too cute by half, pop culture hack <br />reinterpreting the significance of more dead rock stars, one more time? In fact, I admit that Klosterman adds absolutely nothing to most of the rock geography he visits, particularly the understanding of Cobain's life and death (although the Bob Stinson stuff was good.) So what? His remembrances of dead love and the critical significance that certain people will always have in his life is way more interesting than a few more kicks of the collective Van Zandt / grunge corpses. <br /> <br />Klosterman clearly spends too much time inside his own head, like most good writers. Because of this, he can turn a funny phrase, like when he riffs on Philly sports fans or mourns his lost shooting touch from the top of the key. And the music stuff is pretty entertaining, like when he reflects on the peculiar significance of Led Zeppelin, or the truth in Rod Stewart's voice. If you're looking for an elegy to the day the music died, go look someplace else. For a quick and entertaining afternoon read with something on the stereo, this is a perfect book.	2005-08-17
US	38438151	R1OE5GU3Y7AUPL	089886769X	220498520	Ice & Mixed Climbing: Modern Technique (Mountaineers Outdoor Expert)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great for Beginner / Intermediates	Written in thoughtful and lively fashion, Gadd distills his 20 years of collected wisdom into 230 pages. Discussions on tools, technique, nutrition, training are all useful - this is a book for the aspiring ice warrior as well as the climber with a few seasons under his / her belt. The constant Red Bull pimping gets a bit distracting but a guy has to pay the bills, afterall. Highly recommended.	2004-11-15
US	38438151	R2JYF6IAM4EOU5	0684827123	635805839	The Song of the Dodo: Island Biogeography in an Age of Extinction	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A Challenging Read	On the one hand, I've tried reading this book three times and always run out of gas around page 150. On the other hand, I have tried three times. This is an important and engaging book, and the island biogeography ideas are important when trying to understand ecosystem destruction within North America. Eventually I will finish the book!	2004-08-27
US	38438151	R2YF4QR4D36QFX	1579549985	59875524	The Abs Diet: The Six-Week Plan to Flatten Your Stomach and Keep You Lean for Life	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	Solid Exercise and Nutritional Advice	As a broad-shouldered, large-twitch muscle male in his mid-30s who wrestles with abdominal junk, these types of books have an instant appeal for me. I didn't particularly think this was a diet book but more of a manifesto for how to go about cleaning up your act if high-fructose corn syrup and couch surfing make up too much of your daily time log. It talks about the importance of keeping your metabolic furnace primed with whole foods and resistance training - nothing revelatory but easy to follow and stick with over the long haul. <br /> <br />Most of the Men's Health publications are nutritionally solid and filled with good gym regimens - if you are looking for more of a diet, try their \\"Belly Off\\" book. The exercises in \\"The Abs Diet\\" are a bit rudimentary for anyone who hits the gym more than once a week but provide a nice framework for moving on to more complex exercise groups. I think the book skews towards the male reader (not surprising given the day job of the author) but both sexes will find the material useful.	2004-08-23
US	38438151	R3M5LPEIQLYGJF	0060577010	431651370	The Flash of Lightning Behind the Mountain: New Poems	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Still More Wheat than Chaff	Even in decline or repose, Bukowski was a snarling middleweight champion next to the preening and professional academic poets that choke our journals. I suppose we can even forgive him the torrent of imitators and pretenders he has spawned, writing roominghouse poetry from their parents' basement.<br />This collection has a few clunkers and a fair share of poems that just chase their own tails. But there is good stuff here, as well - hospital and leukemia poems, more fond remembrances of Jane and the overbearing father. Even a poem about the poems to be collected and released after his death (ie this book.) While there is chaff amongst the wheat, this book can still be recommended.	2004-06-12
US	38438151	R2GWBAM9U1PZQP	068817762X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Torch This Book	Wow, what a clunker. Unimaginative and filled with the cliches of modern life in the cul de sac, where all children all sullen, all housewives lead lives of pill-fueled quiet desperation, and all husbands play hide the pickle with soccer moms.<br />I could forgive the hackneyed themes if the writing itself were masterful but it wheezes along with the grace and wit of an upper-level land grant university literary seminar. The best thing about this book is that its memory won't linger with me for any longer than it takes for me to toss it in the dumpster.	2004-06-06
US	38438151	R12SBL5Z590YTU	1560252626	659394390	Drinking with Bukowski: Recollections of the Poet Laureate of Skid Row	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Bottomfeeders, etc	This collection doesn't particularly slice the melon for me. Some decent recollections, a few self-important remembrances, a blast of bad tribute poetry here and there. Go read Factotum, instead	2004-06-01
US	38438151	R23NQ6TF1MOXHA	1578051002	677842297	True Grizz: Glimpses of Fernie, Stahr, Easy, Dakota, and Other Real Bears in the Modern World (Sierra Club Books Publication)	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Good Book, Not Must Have	We seem to be increasing our volumes of &quot;bear journalism&quot; at a rapid pace but I'm not sure we ever needed to go beyond Peacock's &quot;Grizzly Years.&quot; I find the author and his cohorts well-intentioned, but do we really need to know everything there is to know about the grizzly? Do we need to radio-collar them and track them and tag them and pursue them and give them cutesy, anthropomorphic names? Why can't we just accept their mystical and awesome presence and perhaps spend a bit less time and energy destroying their habitat?	2004-03-25
US	38438151	R349S3FMD1ERHH	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Joe Smith - A Rockefeller of Faith	I will keep this review brief, as plenty of other people have exhaustively discussed this book. Besides, the Lord has commanded me to go get some nachos. . .<br />Krakauer casts a wide net in this book, covering everything from the origins of Mormonism (Joseph Smith was basically a John Rockefeller of faith) to the vigilante wars of the 1840s to the abduction of Elizabeth Smart to the double-murder that forms the crux of this book. Sometimes it is difficult to keep all the players straight, particularly the various tribes of fundamentalists in their enclaves throughout the West. Krakauer doesn't Mormon bash here - if anything, I have a newfound appreciation for the religion and its adherents. Nor do I see the LDS being indicted for the violent crimes in the book anymore than I see the Christian community getting blamed for David Koresh and Jim Jones. As for the fabulous beliefs held by the Mormons - what makes an angel giving gold pages to Joe Smith any less ridiculous than old Noah cramming two of everything into his homemade lifeboat? All religion is nothing more than shared mythology.<br />Well-researched and not particularly biased, the book does begin to lose a bit of steam and focus in the last 40 pages. A parallel the author draws between the murderous Lafferty boys and Bush / Ashcroft seems like a bit of a simple-minded reach. And Krakauer descends occasionally into lurid prose (ex \\". . . and let her life drain across the floor of the kitchen in a viscous crimson flood.\\") But overall a worthy examination of a peculiarly American faith and those who find themselves estranged from its current incarnation.	2003-10-27
US	38438151	R7TNLTCIEWTE9	1573222364	704849535	Good Morning Midnight: Life and Death in the Wild	Books	3	8	10	N	N	More Death than Life	I have long been a fan of Guy Waterman - the sort of man that many admire but few emulate. His wilderness ethic was beyond reproach in an era where few mountaineers could make the same claim. Bits and pieces of his family story have been told in article and essay format by such writers as Jon Waterman and John Krakauer. And of course, we are left with several collections by Guy Waterman himself. To that collection we can add this confused book, which seeks to be part Greek tragedy, part love story, mystery, part cautionary tale. In the end, it is only partially successful and the attempts at clinical psychology come across as particularly muddy and new-agey. The frequent asides early in the book caused me to put it down multiple times. Also, we spend much more time trying to get into Waterman's head than we do getting into his beloved home mountain ranges.<br />The first half of the book attempts to make a mystery out of something completely obvious - why Waterman would take his own life. In the end Guy Waterman was a man who chose to live his values. Rare in the world, to be sure. So it is not at all unusual that he would choose to die by those values, as well. Fortunately, the author backs off from this angle in the second half of the book, the narrative improves dramatically, and the book becomes more difficult to set aside. It becomes a father and sons book, touching and revealing, only occasionally bothered by high-reaching prose.	2003-10-22
US	38438151	RKFW9YN3S5XGZ	0792268911	944806184	Hawks Rest: A Season in the Remote Heart of Yellowstone	Books	3	14	20	N	N	A Mixed Season	Yellowstone needs an Ed Abbey, it needs an outspoken and opinionated, brawling, ornery cuss. Someone who will say what is wrong and what is right. Unfortunately, Gary Ferguson isn't that person. His writing is fluid and occasionally graceful and there is no doubt he loves the land. But in this book he is rarely able to truly deliver a sense of wonder or transfer it to the reader. We can never close our eyes and see a grizzly sparring with a wolf pack or a fledgling bald eagle peering down from the nest. Having hiked and hunted in the Thorofare my whole life I was hoping for something more evocative.<br />Although he shines a light on the good-old-boy cronyism that transforms the Teton Wilderness into a collection of outfitter fiefdoms every year, he doesn't really get down and dirty and rake the muck. Sure he throws a few weak jabs here and there at the big commercial guides and their dour hands, but mostly he just steps out of the way of the issue. In the end, the book adds just a bit to our collected knowledge of the Yellowstone ecosystem.<br />More damaging than a few redneck salt licks up a drainage someplace are the trophy home subdivisions encroaching the park on all sides. These developments are grinding up the habitat in ways an outfitter could never accomplish, and they are being built by those who profess to love the country the most. Ferguson takes a brief stroll down that path before turning aside - perhaps in his next book?	2003-10-22
US	38438151	RA18P9NUORNGI	1570980373	403629047	Mountain Time: A Yellowstone Memoir	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Living on Mountain Time	As in his other books on Yellowstone, Schullery synthesizes history, science, and memoir into an engaging and engrossing read. I have spent years around the park and this book contained much that was new to me. There is a warmth and a dignity to Schullery's writing that befits our oldest national park. <br />Unusual for an on-the-record Park Service employee, Schullery does have his own opinions. There are friends and enemies. In the twenty years since this book was originally published, the world of Yellowstone has changed. Its greatest threat does not come from extractive and exploitative corporations, nor a complicitous government, nor even from the dingbat Congressional delegation attached to its home states. Rather, it comes from the citizenry that most professes to cherish the resource. People like you and me who are loving it to death, slicing subdivisions into critical habitat in a fevered quest for their piece of the West.<br />Ahhh, but Yellowstone belongs as much to the sunburned bricklayer from Ohio and his sausage-legged wife as it does to me. Schullery understands that this land was made for you and me, no matter how difficult the mediation between user groups. And as the title of the book reminds us, Yellowstone is indeed on mountain time. All the snowmobilers and timber company executives and tree-hugging commies who visit the park this year will be rotting in their graves in a hundred years but Yellowstone will endure in spite of us.	2003-06-29
US	38438151	RI7TZHT10C4VT	0738206997	917865433	An Obsession With Butterflies: Our Long Love Affair With A Singular Insect	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Song of a Book	This little song of a book makes for a lively and brief read. From caterpillars to moths to butterflies, Russell flits from subject to subject poetically. Her book focuses on the genetic mission of the butterfly, their tricks of adaptation and mimickry. Makes me want to be a butterfly (if for no other reason than to be able to secrete a chastity belt onto my wife to keep her from being promiscuous.) The occasional second-person narrative works surprisingly well.<br />Most importantly, Russell does not waste much ink discussing issues of habitat destruction or species extinction. We know about that already. Instead she focuses on the magic, the color, and the life. The lepidopterists out there might quibble with the science (the author is more of an MFA than a PhD) but I odn't know about that. It is getting on evening and I am going to grab a six-pack and my camera and go out in the hills looking for butterflies.	2003-06-26
US	38438151	RDARMTX9WGLFT	0316818100	528207685	Stokes Field Guide to Birds: Western Region	Books	2	1	11	N	N	Adequate	This is an adequate resource for a novice birdwatcher and it is well-organized. However, after testing this book in 3 Western wildlife refuges, I've decided that I would like more information on the behaviors and habits of each bird. I am by no means a &quot;bird geek,&quot; but am simply seeking to know more about the natural world as I hike or row through it. The book provides little more than just name, rank, and serial number. Also, although the photography is mostly sharp and useful, some of the seagoing bird photographs are blurred and grainy, resembling a Bigfoot photo. I have been looking for the ultimate guide to Western birds but I'm going to keep looking.	2003-04-02
US	38438151	RRFZW9T30Q1Q6	0393020177	534974093	Coming Home to Eat: The Pleasures and Politics of Local Foods	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Unfocused	This book wasn't quite what I expected. Nabhan promises a sensual tale of a year with local foods and instead wanders around from tales of anti-WTO battles in Seattle to genetically engineered crops in Illinois to monarch butterflies in Mexico. While I assume this is designed to show us the interconnectivity of man to all species, it makes for a seriously unfocused narrative. While the sections of the book are nominally divided by seasons, it's hard to find a thread that weaves it's way all the way through this crazy quilt of a book. It's also light on sensuality, although perhaps I was subconsciously envisioning tales of eating local foods off the smooth, supple thighs of young Papago women. I kept wanting him to cut loose in the narrative, break some rules, slash some tires, shotgun some processed food displays instead of meekly writing letters to Congressmen and the FDA.  Have you ever seen what a 12-guage shell can do to a nice display of Hostess products?<br />Although a bit restrained, Nabhan and his crew fight many admirable battles and he has some insights on the raping of the seas by multi-national seafood harvesters and the danger of genetically engineered crops. He believes that we can heal ourselves and the planet by disengaging from the 99 cent value meal and reconnecting with the earth and its creatures. That's assuming the 280 million people now crowding the country are even remotely interested in such a proposition, and something tells me they are not. Nor is this book likely to ignite their hidden passions for local foods.	2003-01-26
US	38438151	R2144B24UVD898	1551050889	73926226	Plants of the Rocky Mountains (Lone Pine Field Guide)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A Fine Resource for the Casual Naturalist	This is an excellent guidebook to the flowers, shrubs, trees and plants of the entire Rocky Mountain chain. I tested this book in the meadows and streambeds near my home in Wyoming and discovered that the photos are clear, colorful, and aid in identification of species. Each listing features a general description as well as data on the leaves, flowers, fruits, and range. If you read the description closely and match it with your subject it's difficult to misidentify the species. Not every wildflower is included here but 95% of what you might find in Yellowstone or RMNP is here. Also, there's a brief bit of lore on most of the more common plants and flowers to help the reader understand the historical medicinal uses, as well as which ones make a refreshing tea and which ones can leave you paralyzed and impotent if ingested at toxic levels.<br />Not to be underestimated is the sturdy construction of this book - I carried it on a 2 week backpack earlier this summer and found the cover virtually indestructible and waterproof.	2002-09-02
US	38438151	RXQ99PTM0O4WN	0802116981	997542726	The Raw and the Cooked: Adventures of a Roving Gourmand	Books	4	28	31	N	Y	Down with Chicken Breast!!	Jim Harrison walks in a world where people routinely stuff animals inside other animals, saute the sweetbreads to feed the cat, and routinely have soft-shell crab FedExed to their remote writerly outposts. This is evident from reading \\"the Raw and the Cooked\\", a collection of his food essays which appeared in Esquire and Men's Journal, among other barometers of male taste.<br />(...)Harrison is at his best detailing those hidden corners of America that are quickly vanishing from our contracting universe where new advances in cuisine are largely limited to colored ketchups. And we both decry the flavorless but universal boneless, skinless chicken breast kept on menus everywhere for its entirely unprovocative nature, usually presented with all the flare and originality of an Alvarado Strret whore. The lengths to which Harrison will go NOT to eat a boring meal are fun to read, as is his continually incongruous Republican bashing. His writing is as relevant to your life as you would like it to be.<br />Where Harrison gets off-target is in his frequent name dropping of business and personal associates. Do we really care that he's pals with Harrison Ford or has made moon-eyes across the table with Winona Ryder? Save that for tarpon fishing trips with Hunter Thompson and Jack Nicholoson. Also, some of the contents of his backwoods pantry seem a bit fantastic, especially for those of us who live 400 miles away from the nearest specialty grocer. Fresh serranos, ground chiltepins, dried posole, etc are all instantly at his fingertips whenever necessary for an impromptu midday snack. It does liven up his writing, however.<br />(...)	2002-09-02
US	38438151	RNVPKO51ZTZ1X	0679442871	688790502	Deep in a Dream: The Long Night of Chet Baker	Books	3	10	17	N	N	Deep in a Dream of a More Balanced Book	I was first exposed to Chet Baker by a crazy Italian girlfriend who eventually slashed all my clothes with a box knife, accused me of pushing her down some stairs, and ran up my credit cards. I still remember her with her hair hanging over her crazy dark eyes, drinking red wine from the bottle in her underwear, listening to those old Chet Baker Pacific Jazz vocal records and threatening to kill the neighbors in the apartment below hers. Those were the good times!<br />According to the harrowing timeline constructed by the author, Chet Baker was a rapist, an arsonist, and a closet homosexual with an Oedipal Complex who was eventually murdered. He was also a fiendish junkie who ripped off friends and foes alike to feed his veins and traded on his talent rather than develop it. It all makes for tantalizing, if eventually numbing, copy. I bought this book to read about a junky-artist but all I got was a junky story. Baker's fragile tone is a complete disconnect from his apparently rather evil, manipulative persona and this book would've been fascinating had the author bothered to examine this in greater detail. Instead we get endless tales of scoring junk, deportations, wife-beating, etc. - Gavin runs the ball downfield and then fumbles on the goal line. Why does Baker at his best blowing \\"My Funny Valentine\\" make the hair stand up on our necks, making versions by Stan Getz, Art Farmer, and even Miles Davis sound mechanical? This book is colorful but provides little in the way of explanation.<br />I've loaned this book to a truckdriving friend who has been through a methadone program three times. We used to sit in his dark living room, skinpopping and looking at a picture of Talia Shire he kept on his coffee table. He told me the junky frenzy is drawn accurately enough so at least this book has that going for it.	2002-08-30
US	38438151	RSLUBCOUJ4XTZ	0195147111	929515526	Myself When I Am Real: The Life and Music of Charles Mingus	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Subject Matter Itself Worth 3 Stars	Any biography of Mingus should, by the nature of its subject matter, earn at least 3 stars. Mingus is too explosive, too mercurial, too much of an American Original, to have his story add up to anything less. Anything more, of course, is in the hands of the author.<br />It appears as though Gene Santoro has tried to write the jazz biography as jazz - his transitions are abrubt and curl back on themselves, he reuses several motifs and phrases (sometimes so often they become annoying), and he stitches together various pieces to form a supposedly illuminating whole. However, this book is a patchwork that never really adds up to more than the sum of its parts. Most of the details are here - the ex-wives, the feuds over the music and money, the revolving door of bandmates. Without a doubt there are funny and poignant stories, otherwise what's the point of Mingus? But we never really understand why Charles Mingus is in the pantheon of great 20th Century composers (American or otherwise), or how he started out wanting to be the Orson Welles of jazz and ended up its Aaron Copland. And Santoro's attempts to put either Mingus behavior or Mingus music into the rapidly evolving political and social contexts of the 50s and 60s are the usual broad strokes of jazz biography.<br />The definitive Mingus biography is still waiting to be written. Read Sue Mingus's \\"Tonight at Noon\\" for a touching summation of his later years, read the liner notes to \\"Black Saint and the Sinner Lady\\" if you want a glimpse of what music meant to Charles Mingus. Most of all, listen to Mingus. And if you read this book while listening to its subject, don't be surprised if your mind wanders from the printed page.	2002-08-25
US	38438151	R34I6DUPZU42TL	0316328499	709545163	Can't Be Satisfied: The Life and Times of Muddy Waters	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Notes Section is a Nice Touch	Robert Gordon has the subject of a lifetime in telling the tale of an illiterate sharecropper born McKinley Morganfield. Morganfield's story starts with him working sun to sun in the Mississippi cotton fields and playing fish fries with an acoustic box. It eventually ends with Muddy Waters fully electrified on international stages and at the White House (where, according to Calvin Jones, they didn't get paid a dime and were feted with hot dogs). In between are tales of car wrecks, knife fights, dumbheaded attempts at \\"updating\\" his rural sound, royalty ripoffs, hired musicians, fired musicians, and rehired musicians. <br />Waters is definitely a problematic individual - fiercely protective of those who cut the trail in front of him (ie Son House), loyal to the paternalistic systems of Stovall and Chess, yet also rampantly adulterous and unable to protect some of his children from the ravages of heroin and street life.<br />In the best of the oral blues tradition, Gordon has used the words of those who lived and played with Waters, including Marshall Chess, James Cotton, Willie Smith, and Jimmy Rogers, to flesh out the portrait. Their stories are the best part of the book. Everyone in the band drank heavily, everyone carried knives and guns, everybody had a pretty girl waiting on them in the next town. The reminiscences of harpist Paul Oscher are particularly amusing, while the perspective of Muddy's granddaughter Cookie reveals there were definitely two men wearing the same shoes - the decent provider and family man Morganfield and the stage persona and adulterer Muddy Waters.<br />In the end, Gordon succeeds, although the topic is so rich it's almost like shooting fish in a barrel..., \\"Can't be Satisfied\\" does a fine job of recreating the life and times of Muddy Waters.	2002-08-10
US	38438151	R28N7FLA3AALJB	1555662188	988938655	Ghost Grizzlies: Does the Great Bear Still Haunt Colorado?	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A Complete and Intelligent Study	Buy this book. Buy it new, buy it used, buy it for your friends, buy it for your enemies. Petersen has written a thoughtful and thorough examination of recent grizzly bear management policies (or lack thereof) in the San Juans of Colorado. The book is a pleasure to read.<br />As someone who occasionally sees grizzers on his property, I can't conceive of living in an environment that doesn't have a population of apex predators to keep things interesting. Petersen masterfully chronicles how government funded assassins with the support of short-sighted local ranching communities and clumsy land managers, managed to kill virtually every grizzly in Colorado.  He also accurately details how Western ranchers have come to view public lands with more than a sense of ownership but rather with a sense of absolute entitlement. This has led them to run their stock on federal land at ridiculously cheap rates, ignore even the most commonsense principles of husbandry, and push bears and wolves into the zoos and picture books while trying to keep everyone else out. Also to blame are the Baby Huey-like semi-rich, who hack 20 acre ranchettes out of the diminishing habitat and in the process are strangling the thing they profess to love most.<br />Petersen manages to stay somewhat balanced, using an essay by the outspoken and bearlike Doug Peacock to say what is probably really on his mind regarding sheep ranchers and development dingbats. In the course of researching the book, Peterson also forges unlikely friendships with former (but not reformed) professional and amateur bearslayers , including Ed Wiseman, who killed the last known Colorado grizz in hand to hand combat in 1979.<br />There is the general belief in the book that the great bear still lives in the San Juans but has become more nocturnal and reclusive as it adapts to its shrinking habitat. There are certainly drainages wild enough to support a grizz but I personally don't believe there are any left. My heart tells me that any state with a wildlife management policy as pathetic and dumbheaded as Colorado's can't have allowed for even a single surviving great bear. Also, I am reminded of a story in Scott Weidensaul's recent (and excellent) book on vanishing species entitled \\"The Ghost With Trembling Wings.\\" Weidensaul tells the story of an animal who escapes from a European zoo and whose likeness is posted on the news. Consequently, hundreds of eyewitness calls come flooding in from all over the country, each caller claiming to have personally seen the critter. It turns out that the koala had actually been run over by a train several hundred yards from the zoo immediately after escaping. Weidensaul's point is that people WANT to believe something so badly, they convince themselves of its existence. And I'm afraid that is what we are doing with the Colorado grizzly.	2002-07-23
US	38438151	R2JA1KO1DWMI02	1560446250	518589262	Fishing Yellowstone National Park (Regional Fishing Series)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Map to the Cutthroats Homes	Recently, I managed to get the hay baled, unload several cow-calf pairs at the sale barn, and endure a screaming diatribe from one of my neighbors who was desiring to cut a road across the corner of my property for ill-defined reasons involving an elk hunting camp. When I demurred, spittle flew out of his mouth and he became quite agitated. For a moment, I thought I might have to get the Mossberg. In the end, he promised to make things so hot for me with our County Board that I would think the devil himself was after me. Against this backdrop, I decided it was a sovereign time to go fishing in Yellowstone.<br />I have mixed opinions about the worth and accuracy of some Falcon Guides, but not this one. Armed with this guide, I wended my way through the bunkers of industrial tourism that blight our otherwise wondrous first national park, dodging the hatch of RVs and uncurious flabbos that choke the roads in high season. I settled first on a stretch of the Lewis River, which Merriwether Lewis never actually saw. It fished about the way the author said it would, and his descriptions were accurate and clear.<br />Of course, anyone can write a roadside fishing guide but what about the pristine streams and creeks accessible only by foot or horse? I shouldered my pack and hiked twenty miles into the backcountry in search of some of the original strain of cutthroat. Again, his descriptions of Wolverine Creek and the upper Snake were clear and easy to follow. I used various atttractor patterns recommended by the author and some that weren't. Each produced an equal and abundant share of fish. I finished my week with a couple of nights on Pebble Creek in the NE corner of the park, fishing the undercut banks and big pools in the manner the author suggests. The cutthroat were plentiful, surprisingly sizeable, and not too selective. As a bonus, I saw a wolf pack cruising across the valley as I made my way down the stream bank.<br />The short sections on ethics are a pleasure to read. Use barbless hooks at all times and don't poach another angler's water if he's clearly fishing a stretch you covet. Get out of bed earlier next time. The author occasionally gives short shrift to some of the more difficult trails in the Park, but if you want to get away from your fellow sportsmen and enjoy Yellowstone the way Colter did, take such damnings with a grain of salt. Overall, his impressions of the park's waters and their fishability mirror my own over the last 15 years or so. Also, he is not kidding when he estimates the number of fisherman who crowd popular sections of river, such as Slough Creek and the Yellowstone near Hayden Valley. Leave these waters in high season for the Zebco crowd and plan on fishing them in the off-season.	2002-07-17
US	38438151	R2HPA4SVZIFGGE	0806133902	205521520	Ghostwest: Reflections Past and Present	Books	2	6	13	N	Y	Dim Reflections	This book is the latest in a trend of overrated collections that seek to collect significant Western destinations and interpret them (Think Ian Frazier's \\"Great Plains\\" and Tim Egan's, \\"Lasso the Wind.\\") This book might have been recommendable twenty years ago but today it seems a bit behind the curve, as every professor with access to a rental car seems to be cranking these things out. Most of the topics within GhostWest have been covered more skillfully by other writers, and the author's own engagement seems distant at times. What is intended to seem like an insight-laden road trip instead reads like the measured transcript of a ford Aerostar full of Cather scholars on their way to the post-symposium bash at Applebee's.<br />It seems anyone who started backpacking when they were young is now a Western expert, and expertise consists of making insightless comments about the savage development boom in Colorado and the addled, uncurious nature of our tourist population. Discourse on the West demands more. And do we really need to hear what the author thinks about war? I'd rather hear what my crazy, tax protesting neighbor thinks about toe jam.<br />Ronald seeks to insert the element of ghosts in this book, which given the title, seems appropriate. However, sometimes it seems incongruous and inappropriate, and grasps for ghostly significance are inserted more frequently than ads for personal injury laywers in an episode of Jerry Springer. And if you are going to talk about Federal damlord Floyd Dominy, it might make sense to spell his name correctly (or at least consistently) throughout the book.<br />If you want to understand Man's uneasy relationship to the West, and how he wrestles with very palpable ghosts, go fish the Encampment River in Wyoming, or walk through the Badlands. Bring a copy of \\"Hole in the Sky\\" by William Kittredge, or \\"The NineMile Wolves\\" by Rick Bass. But leave this book on the shelf.	2002-06-29
US	38438151	RTTUXW5Q8HIQL	1560253460	190306265	Mount Rushmore: An Icon Reconsidered (Nation Books)	Books	3	9	12	N	Y	Photos and an Index Would've Been Nice	At first, I was reluctant to read this book, as I'm not sure the West needs another carpetbagging intellectual making a whirlwind tour of our history and then interpreting its significance and smashing it's myths. Fortunately, the author isn't particularly intellectual. However, he does attempt to weave the sprawling tales of Rushmore, broken treaties, Little Big Horn, the Homestake Mine, the Klan, and AIM (among others,) with some success. The book starts out strong and well-researched, although none of the protagonists are fleshed out much. Even sculptor Borglum, arguably the anchor of the book, comes off as little more than a two-dimensional racist pig madly waving a banner of Manifest Destiny. Whether his racism is intrinsic to his personality or just political opportunism of the age is never really determined.<br />There is very little discussion of the physical construct of the monument, although the author dismisses the curiousity for such details as the geography of rank tourists. Still, a little bit of detail where the chisel and the explosives are concerned might have helped. Mostly, the book is about the myth. Having had a gun put to my head in the Rushmore parking lot one late night by an overzealous Secret Service agent, I understand the pervasive nature of the myth. <br />Don't buy this book for the strength of the prose, unless you like weak turns of phrase like, \\"The grass waved gently in the breeze.\\" And the militant Indian stuff seems a mite superfluous and has been written better, notably by Peter Mathiessen and Ian Frazier.  There is nothing revelatory here, and the book ultimately descends into an aimless list of quotes and anecdotes that resemble a grad student bicker-off in the corner of the local vegan coffee klatch of your nearest college town. In the final analysis, although Larner wanders into debates about Devil's Tower climbing and Dutch Reagan's face being added to the Fab Four, the author does a decent job of explaining the roots of amonument that Calvin Coolidge said is \\"altogether worthy of our Country.\\" And you can interpret that any way you like.	2002-06-27
US	38438151	R2VWFC1GH9QURH	0679446745	655454398	The Cadence of Grass	Books	4	24	26	N	Y	More Fun in the New West	McGuane is my favorite novelist, mining territory that hits uncomfortably close to my own ranching, adulterous bones. Setting aside Larry McMurtry's dissipated and puzzling \\"review\\" of this book in a recent NY Review of Books, this is one of McGuane's more problematic novels. It is also his most interesting work in 12 years. It does not rival his best (Nobody's Angel) in either grim power or wit. Nevertheless, all the familiar ingredients are there - New West profiteers, doomed marriages, snowstorms on the Absarokas, suicides, revenge, the dead father figure with the endless shadow, and the tiring intra-family struggle for power with a capital &quot;P.\\" Maybe because these ingredients are ever-present we are starting to take McGuane's bleak elegance for granted.<br />The novel sputters a bit in the thoroughly rendered but self-indulgent hardcore cowboy scenes where the dignified old hand culls sick cows and tends to the calfing and generally displays a wealth of ranching motherwit that the average reader will find indecipherable. Hell, I run cattle and I found it distracting! What more than makes up for it are the razor-sharp exchanges between the characters and the sharply drawn quiet moments that fill the book.<br />My Uncle Wade loved this book. Not that my Uncle Wade is particularly well-read - and when I was a kid he took me to the Wyoming - Colorado State game and made me wet myself at the Circle K as a distraction to the clerk while he shoplifted beef jerky and tobacco. But my Uncle Wade knows Western Gothic. For my own self, I will just say that if you've ever spent a few fevered hours with your brother's wife at a Super 8, inoculated livestock on a Friday night, or hit someone with a pool cue, you will like this book.	2002-06-11
US	38438151	R18DXWKO12JYSF	0679442006	63274353	This Cold Heaven: Seven Seasons in Greenland	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Tough Guys Eat Seal Meat	My fellow Wyo resident Gretel Ehrlich has never been a personal favorite of mine - I have found her writing a bit bloodless and strident. This Cold Heaven is no exception. Fortunately in this case, bloodless not only works, it is preferable. The native residents of Greenland are a hardcore bunch of seal-eating, dog whipping, communal living Last Best Men and their stories rival any on the planet for sheer toughness. Ehrlich packs her book with tales of ice explorers like Peter Freuschen and Knud Rasmussen, who make the cowboys, Marines and murderous I have known seem as simpering as Boy George and Anne Heche off their Wellbutrin. The author weaves their tales cleverly among her own personal accounts of more modest contemporary adventures, although we never really get to see what drives Ehrlich to this place. Maybe that doesn't matter. Ignore the Luddite whining that stains books like these and you're in for a treat.	2002-06-11
US	38438151	R1I0BBCF9NUVXB	0684811073	646280776	Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Undaunted Ambivalence	I am deeply ambivalent about Lewis and Clark. Part of me applauds their determinism and the rugged individualism they displayed, a quality that is universally lauded as a virtue in the abstract but is almost always cruelly punished by an indifferent society when practiced. Then there is another part of me that wishes the Mandans or the Hidatsas or the Brule or the Piegans would've slaughtered the whole syphilitic lot of them. As Ambrose repeatedly observes, this would've left a river tribe in possession of the greatest weapons cache west of Illinois. Perhaps this might have postponed for a few years the berserk settlement of the West and the greedy and piecemeal state of land rights governance that evolved over the past 200 years.<br />In any case, there is much to be learned here by the casual scholar, particularly regarding Lewis' upbringing and life in the Jefferson White House, as well as the personal and professional chaos that dogged him in the few years between his return and his death by presumed suicide. This is principally a tale of Captain Lewis - Jefferson is painted as the yeoman farmer in the manner that recent historiography has favored, Clark is a steady and uncurious sort, Sacajawea is little more than a footnote, John Colter rates no more than an occasional sentence. While this keeps the biography on target, it also robs the narrative of some dimension. As we follow the Corps of Discovery to the Oregon Coast and back, we become interested in their individual stories but the ultimate fates of the entire platoon (except for Lewis and Sgt. Floyd, the only fatality) are never revealed.<br />Careful editing would've kept the book on target, as everything after the Winter of 1805-06 is treated almost as an aftermath than a continuation of a tale - and as any mountaineer might tell you, the most interesting stuff usually happens on the way down. For the most part Ambrose writes in a lively (if occasionally embroidered) style, although his personal voice can be distracting. For example, he tells us that if he were sinking in a boat on the ocean, he would want Lewis in charge. (I think I might prefer a SCUBA instructor or hot air balloon vendor.) But the tale moves along like the Missouri River itself - meandering in some places, urgent in others.<br />The tales of political squabbling post-expedition are some of the best in the book and Ambrose successfully captures the mood of the government in the wake of his discoveries. It's interesting to see that then, as now, our Congressional delegation understands the natural world the same way a drunken frat boy understands a dewy and unspoiled freshman girl who has passed out in his room.an be distracting. For example, he tells us that if he were sinking in a boat on the ocean, he would want Lewis in charge. (I think I might prefer a SCUBA instructor or hot air balloon vendor.) But the tale moves along like the Missouri River itself - meandering in some places, urgent in others.<br />The tales of political squabbling post-expedition are some of the best in the book and Ambrose successfully captures the mood of the government in the wake of his discoveries. It's interesting to see that then, as now, our Congressional delegation understands the natural world the same way a drunken frat boy understands a dewy and unspoiled freshman girl who has passed out in his room.	2002-05-28
US	38438151	R25VFMHS4YP9XP	0375421157	950155765	Tonight at Noon: A Love Story	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Meditations on Mingus	I purchased this book because I have loved the music of Charles Mingus since I first purchased Ah Um. What I expected was a breezily written collection of Mingus stories, colorful anecdotes involving gigs and musicians and glimpses of the magic of creation. And certainly there is some of that in this book - Mingus' diet foibles and paranoid fears and erratic public behaviors elicit laughter and disbelief in the reader. Mingus opinions are never tepid - Miles' voice gets lost in his later fusion era, and Coltrane became a musical preacher that never changed his sermon. Those who played completely free (Archie Shepp and Pharoah Sanders, for instance) were participating in a shuck and trying to trick both a white audience and themselves while neglecting the fact that any music has to come from an historical common place.<br />For a man as massive in stature and appetites as Mingus, his fragility is touching.  He is demanding, mercurial, and larger than life; all qualities that get clearly demonstrated by the author. There is also some material that covers Sue's upbringing in an undemonstrative household that initially seems distracting but eventually becomes appropriate to the narrative. The tense switches from past to present on occasions, as though journal entries have been inserted. <br />However, the book is really, as advertised, a love story. Detailed at length is the Mingus household's battle with Lou Gehrig's disease, from the initial diagnosis to the increasingly desperate attempts to obtain a cure, to the heart attack that eventually takes Mingus' life. Underlying all the voodoo and the iguana blood cocktails and the wildly exploratory midnight rides through the Mexican countryside is a testament to the power of human love and kindness.<BR> <BR>The reason I hoped this book would be a lightly written witness to Mingus is because I purchased it as something to read during the nights I am spending at the bedside of my dying father. Instead there is much that isgrimly familiar here - after weeks of caregiving you find yourself not knowing what day it might be, idly speculating of ways to end a loved one's life that might look perfectly natural, wrestling with your own spiritual loneliness. Nevertheless, this is a great book for music fans in general, and Mingus fans in particular.	2002-05-25
US	38438151	R3T9BXH3XIW6S3	0802136729	139351741	Lord of the Barnyard: Killing the Fatted Calf and Arming the Aware in the Cornbelt	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Tornado of a Book	This first novel starts strong and full of promise and begins to come apart at about the 219 page mark before finally descending into a seemingly amphetamine fueled script treatment for the Dukes of Hazzard. Before that point there are a troll's share of delightful passages and laugh out loud moments. The book goes several pages at a time painting stunningly evocative portraits with the English language as the narrative follows the misadventures of John Kaltenbrunner from pre-birth to the very end. Having worked as a rancher, roughneck, asbestos remover and chicken slaughterer, I have shared all three shifts with every form of dire, grubby human flotsam imaginable and Egolf renders these wage-slave lifers with an accuracy that makes me feel I'm in the trenches shoveling dung and slaughtering hens again. The author has written essentially two novellas in two different voices - had he stopped after the triumphant defeat of the hero at the hands (and body) of a particularly heinous Methodist crone, he would've had a short tragicomedy worthy of high recommendation. As it is, he outstays his welcome, the plot begins to catch wheels in the bog, and I found myself resisting the urge to skim the last 40 pages.<br />As I live 350 miles from the nearest decent bookstore, the buzz and hype surrounding this book escaped me, although it's hard to miss the gushing blurbs from some gatekeepers of literary merit like Salon and Details magazines. In any case, Egolf is no Celine. However, he is a talented writer who could benefit from a more judicious editing (both internal and employed by Grove Press.)	2002-05-07
US	38438151	R12KOC78QP5CDL	0375503250	296298524	Buffalo for the Broken Heart: Restoring Life to a Black Hills Ranch	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Thoughtful, Quick Read	The myth of the cowboy and the open range is one of the most pervasive in America. Dan O'Brien addresses this poetically in \\"Buffalo for a Broken Heart.\\" An owner-operator who played by the tired rules of the ranching bible for two decades, this extended essay details what happened when he tried to take it in a new direction by running buffalo (hardy and native) instead of cattle (imported and non-adaptive.)<br />Cowboy myths die hard. Having punched a few cowboys during bar fights in my time, I can tell you that they are some of the most stubborn critters this side of Liza Minelli, particularly when they've been in the sour mash. It's best to just break a longneck behind their neck and put them to sleep. You need to make sure they are unattached if you do this because chances are they will go back to the doublewide and beat their women if you aren't around when they wake up. Also, while you're letting the air out of the tires on their rusty Dodge Ram, beware of the wet dog usually sleeping in the back on a pile of empty beer cans and spent shotgun shells.<br />But I digress. O'Brien is not a Matthiessen caliber writer as the gushy cover blurb suggests. But he sticks to what he knows and resists the urge to paint broad strokes (although he gets in a nice crack on vegetarians) and indulge his superiority complex (mostly) while confining his focus to the ranch and those around it. The story meanders a bit towards the end until being brought into quick focus by a suicide that hits close to home. Nevertheless, this is a useful book that debunks several myths and fits nicely on a shelf with similar books by the likes of William Kittredge, Tom McGuane, and Rick Bass.	2002-04-28
US	38438151	R2895Y5F4VYOI4	0395877466	357776378	The Book of Yaak	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Don't Hack the Yaak	Rick Bass has written a plea that is at times elegant and at other times shrill. The best writing in the book are the stories of long-time valley residents (both human and animal) trying to exist in a habitat that is shrinking in the hands of indifferent government and corporate stewards. Every 30-40 pages there is the ripe whiff of the holier-than-thou that usually occurs when a gifted writer transplants himself to the West and somehow comes to believe he is the only one who can truly interpret its significance. But this is possibly a quibble based on the prejudices in my head as a longtime Wyoming rancher. In any case, it's good to know that each member of the Congressional delegation received a copy of this book, although it's doubtful that Conrad Burns or Craig Thomas ever cracked the thing.	2002-04-28
