US	38518257	RUTQXWMXVX9GX	0312281943	43928140	Getting Hers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	He got his....	Donna Hill has stepped out and written a novel that has piqued a interest into another avenue of reading.  This is definitely not her usual style of writing, but this just proves that she is versatile and true to the gift of writing.  These ladies all have something in common & that is they have a discreptancy in their lives, but who would ever think that they will get what is due by a stranger?!  Tess, is skillful, beautiful and has pulled herself into a secret success story, only if Trace could understand her and what she has had to live with, but then you cannot convince someone to understand you, when they are so consumed with themselves and looking down at you. Now, Tess actually could have her own book, especially if you think about Vincent, he could be the perfect partner, in every aspect of her life, ooooooh that would be a great story line, a business partner and a personal partner, when a man is skillful personally and professionally and has the looks and body to make you loose your mind, umh whata man whata man, whata man!  Nikki, Nikki, street savvy, beautiful, skillful with her hands, has a skill that most women don't even dream of, making her a true asset in the world of Men, but too much of TRUST, shows to be life changing.  Kim, o Kim did he get his or did she get hers or did you get yours?? Kim is successful, beautiful and has a secret, and trying to keep it all in tact, shows to be disappointing, never thinking that Troy would do what he is doing, and then Stephanie reacts also, who do you run too....did you ever think about Malcolm?  Well, these ladies all have a secret that will bind them together, even though their worlds are so far apart.  Don't ever underestimate the power of women, when she has been weakened by a man, well let's see when a man thinks he has weakened her, cause it is not over until she gets hers.	2005-10-13
US	38518257	R92JO7FPOVFM	0345456092	103527517	Babylon Sisters: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A sister is not always a Sistah....no loyalty....	This novel was interesting and will keep your attention.  Some parts were predictable, but the twist was there also.  I really thought that BJ was going to turn out to be different.  Ezola was terrible and the twist with her was good.  Phoebe was a trip calling all those in her mothers journal.  It was interesting and I really enjoyed it, I do think that it could have been expounded on a little more, but it was a page turner and just watching everything unfold was good.  I also thought that Sam's secretary was going to be the one to tip everything off, but finding out how it unfolded was good.  I think that Pearl Cleage did a good job on this story and I enjoyed it.	2005-10-07
US	38518257	R2P06BXA63GMIH	0446693154	386920489	All Things Hidden	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The World may change, but GOD remains the same...through all things.	Jael Reynolds a detective by choice, a Christian by Faith, has had to endure much.  A young son to raise on her own,and a anal ex, along with the pressures of a successful career in a dominating world of men & bigots.  It is one thing to adjust to when you have to work under the leadership of a woman, but add color to that title and you got blatant racism and hidden racism.  Jael learns that you never know who your enemies will be.  Jael has sacrificed much to succeed and also to find her way spiritually.  She learns that even though she has done what was considered right, the devil has his spawns and there are times in a believer's life where they have to practice and battle that \\"No weapon formed against (me) shall prosper.\\" and the fact that GOD said that he will \\"never leave you or forsake you.\\"  Jael is a living testimony that \\"He may not come when you want him, but he'll always be right on time.\\"   Life itself is hard, but racism and supremacy is real and very much around, you have to know that there are wolves in sheep clothing.  Grant is what Jael needs, someone who is strong, connected and believes in having faith.  You never know when your prince charming will be delivered.  This story line was intriguiing and very captivating, you have to keep reading. You have suspense, mystery, romance, desparation, spirituality, maternal love, and much more in this book.  TO THE AUTHOR JUDY CANDIS.... \\"JOB well done!!!\\"  I look forward to reading more by Ms. Candis.  If you are a Christian fiction reader or if you are not, I recommend this book!!!	2005-07-30
US	38518257	R1N8HV31LAVBDJ	0758206526	229963085	If You Walked In My Shoes	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Vengence is not Yours!!! Watch your attack.	Freida Davis is on a mission to find the one responsible for her being in an abusive situation and all the warnings that she received, she ignored and even though she knows that it is wrong to seek revenge, she forces full speed and with all the planning and plotting she never expected to find her ultimate love and where she thought she would be gratified, she stumbles and finds that it is nothing like she anticipated.  Glen Treadwell is a self absorbed, over confident, take what he wants with no regard to anyone else, until he slam dunks with Frieda and oops the player gets played in the worse kind of way.  Corrine is self sufficient and self proclaimed, through her struggles she succeeds and the skeletons in her closet will come out in the worse possible way, but in actuality when the story unfolds, the worse for Corrine is all in her secret, if she had came clean with Bates and explained what she could not control, she would have spared herself so much grief and anguish, but then Bates is no Saint, he is self proclaimed, above all and unfortunately, he should have told Corrine why he is so judgemental and they would have not had to endure so much anguish.  When Frieda and Corrine come head to head and toe to toe, Corrine brings Frieda down a few notches and through this story I really felt for Corrine, 'cause she suffered the most.  The characters in ths story all had a story of their own and it all intertwined, but it tells the story that you think you know someone and you believe you have all the answers, but if you \\"walked in their shoes,\\" you would know better.  I think that Gwynne Forster could do a part two to this story, because truthfully Frieda and Glenn have unfinished business, and Corrine and Frieda also.  Corrine never heard that her Aunt died wanting to apologize to her... and Star and Eric have a wedding still... The drama is real and the story is spellbounding, cause you don't know what is going to happen and now that Porgy and Lizzette have sealed the deal, they have a story too... Keep writing Ms. Forrester.	2005-06-26
US	38518257	R1WDEP61Z2PG98	0446693545	749368890	What a Sista Should Do	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Put God first, Pray, Pray, Pray some more....	Pam, Taylor, Yvonne, women of New Faith House of Worship.  These 3 women have more in common than they think and belonging to the same church is just one of them.  Pam is married with a family, and is a career woman, believes in GOD and has what most women want to acquire, but then again you don't know her story.  Yvonne is a faithful, saved, model woman who is married to Luke a minister at New Faith House of Worship, she has been a diligent wife and is commendable in her service to the Lord.  Most women dream of having what Yvonne has a beautiful home, a lifestyle that permits her not to have to work outside the home and a man of God for a husband, but then again you don't know her story, well honestly Yvonne doesn't know her own story.  Taylor, uh oh now Taylor is the scorned jezebel, let the women in church tell you, she is single and a mother, who will not reveal who her baby's daddy is & does not get any support from him, hmmmmmm you may even hear that she doesn't even know who the daddy is, if you listen to some of the church gossippers, but then again you don't know her story.  Luke, a man of GOD, who is also a successful CPA, and has a submissive wife, O my now what more could this man want?  Yeah well, he is a man, so what is his story?  Spencer, the fine, educated, GOD Fearing, women falling all over him brother... mmmmmmmmm single, saved, and successful, oh yeah single ladies are you ready for him?  Well, lets read and see.  Tiffany L. Warren has written a true to form story that features characters that real and there is someone in probably your congregation that fits one of these if not all the descriptions, but she has shown that being saved doesn't mean that you have all the answers, that you don't have any of the same problems that others have, what she shows is that life is real and so is GOD, and if you follow GODS way, you can handle all things through Christ Jesus who strengthens.  Vengence is not yours!!! Forgiveness, understanding, and Salvation, you need.  Very well written and the characters were real.  I forgot to mention Troy, but through it all, Pam Troy heard you and God answered your prayers.  READ THIS BOOK!!	2005-05-30
US	38518257	R28AFUWQAHKAG9	0446576476	321196946	Plenty Good Room	Books	5	1	2	N	N	God will never leave you, there's always room for 1 more...	Tamera Britton is a young, calm, caseworker. Usually the one to work as an advocate for parents and children.  She now finds that her friend has gotten her into a situation with a loud, disrespectful teen, whom will bring to her calm, systematic lifesyle, total turmoil.  In the midst of work and home, she is finally back into a church that she had seen as a child and finds that the Lord has a lesson on love for her in this church and in her life.  While Tamera is searching for a past for her friend Yvette, she stumbles on a past that involves Sienna, but when she goes back home to deliver the news, Sienna is not there.  Cheri Paris Edwards has written a true to life, lesson learned, and Spiritually sound story.  You have suspense, mystery, love, romance, Spiritual awareness and the greatest love of all... AGAPE Love in this story.  I cannot wait to read her next work.  I want to know how Sienna responds and Ms. Bailey was hoping that she may have a granddaughter that would love her, and then Isaih Perry, and what about \\"Three?\\"  There has to be a part 2!!!!!!!  Very well writen and the \\"WORD\\" in all through this story and it shows how GOD loves us and turns everything for the good.	2005-05-25
US	38518257	RW0K8VENO0F39	0446695297	366057755	Heaven Sent	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I can do all things through Christ Jesus....	Montre Bible has written a interesting,make you think,  page turner.  Capturing a significant interest of Angels (fallen & guardian), Humans, demons, GOD.  You find that the most important relationship in life is the personal relationship that you have with the LORD.  Just when you feel that nothing else can happen or change, your whole world is turned upside down, inside out.  Andrew has to live with the secrets, his mothers mysterious illness, his estranged father and then if that is not enough, he learns that he has a strength and power that is unknown to him and that his secret love is not just a friend.  He has to also fear a grandfather that he never knew and the visions in his dreams are not coincidental.  Reading this novel will inspire you to evaluate your own personal relationship with the Lord and to remember that all things are possible through Christ Jesus, which strengthens you.  Your sword and your shield is your Faith in GOD.  Good job Montre Bible.  I couldn't put it down.	2005-05-10
US	38518257	R1LN6V6J8NSGAZ	0974702560	896715528	Going Broke	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Its a low down dirty shame.... A man... A Friend....A Job!!!	Trista Russell has made it to the top of the list for successful new authors.  She has written a riveting, talespin, keep you in the pages novel that screams out at ya!! What's a girl to do when she finds the love of her life playing double jeopardy, and on your anniversary of being together.  India was a big fool if you ask me though, cause the brother is on the phone with his lady and you are playing his fiddle.  Now, when the tables are turned it doesn't feel good India does it, when you catch the love of your life doing you, like you did your best so called friend.  Oh for the love of money, it will make you do the craziest things, and when you are living high, and you get the shock of your life and the walls start falling down, you will find yourself doing things that you never thought of.  Sarai, gets turned upside down and all around, but at the same time, somethings are just nasty Sarai, just plain nasty.  Mel is a good man and you were warned, but then Mel is an artist and he has to vent the best way he knows how.  Mel is ultimately a good guy caught up and undeservingly has been hurt.  Damien is crazy as all get out and he still has not met his match... He doesn't love anyone but himself.  Nat is a good friend that was truthful with you, oh and Norm, now that is one sick puppy.  You pick up this book and you will not put it down, until you've read the last line on the last page, and then you will be wishing that Trista had another book ready for you to read.  Excellent storyline and she has a way of writing too.	2005-04-25
US	38518257	RQ5HQKQ5V6HJT	0974052906	643888006	The Fruits of Atterley	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Read from start to finish...	Angela Banks has done an awesome job portraying the Master and Slave relationship from infancy to adulthood.  This is a love story also where the fact that racism is taught and not a born attribute is clearly displayed.  Some of your characteristics and decisions you make are due to your upbringing.  Promise and Gus are bestfriends, have a brother/sister relationship, and are raised together.  Promise has so much to offer Gus and is a survival guide for him, as they grow up, she is still an essential asset to him, but unfortunately because of the environment and historical time, there relationship cannot remain the same and this is where the boundaries are crossed and the differences are clearly identifiable.  There are some hard lessons learned for each character of this story and even Masters don't always have things there ways.  Georgeanna is the product of the superficial, racist, spoiled, inherited riches.  She is the one character in this story that I wish I could transform into character and jump into the pages and give her something that her great grandchildren would remember.  This story also shows how back in time, Incest was tolerated amongst people.  So many people also didn't know the truth even if they could read, because they had interpreted even scriptures incorrectly to support their way of living.  This is not another roots or queen story, this depicts a different side to slavery and the emancipation.  I really like the way Angela Banks brought these characters to life and this is a book that I would love to see made into a movie, but it will need to be a movie that is based solely on the book.  Very well written  and I look forward to reading more from Angela Banks in the future.	2005-04-20
US	38518257	R1MIUF1ZHK5198	0060734434	613429194	The Best-Kept Secret	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What goes around, comes around...	Pastor Curtis Black has kept his word and married his son's mother.  He has moved and has changed his ways.  He is human, but this time around he is trying not to be shady, he is trying to do right, but Curtis darling, you picked the wrong woman this time.  Curtis has to pay for the error of his ways, he treated Tanya badly and she did not deserve that, he was wrong with Mariah and she did not deserve that.  He got a flash or a shot from his past, when he reconnected with Adrienne, but Pastor Black, your current, beautiful, skillful, young, wife is a match in your scandulous ways, and as the pot thickens, Curtis has to face the demons of his past.  I think that Curtis says it best when he tells Charlotte, \\"you can't con a con\\" and Curtis learns that the heart is delicate and mind altering organ, and even though Charlotte is a female Old Curtis, he is still trying to be right and not slip back, but in this saga, Charlotte pushed him right back to his unfaithful ways.  I look forward to Ms.Robys next story, cause there has to be one.  Charlotte has the life she thought she wanted at the end, but cannot be that good and Curtis has not resorted to being a shady Pastor, he has turned over the Pulpit to another Pastor, which is a good thing, and he is concentrating on his career and his travels and a new fling on the side, but has he gotten mixed up with another Adrienne and is his precious little girl really a Black or is it Crazy Donovan's... OOH Charlotte what a tangle web you have weaved.!!	2005-03-14
US	38518257	RB11TFCSQS8A3	0060568496	477953876	Too Much of a Good Thing (Roby, Kimberla Lawson)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Everybody has their day.	Pastor Curtis Black is back into the swing of things, with his high stepping fine self, and this time, he is not planning to make the same mistake that he made with Tanya and his first church.  Curtis has been on hiatus and some of his old members of his previous church want him to lead the flock at this new church.  Well Curtis has a new wife, new church, new house, new new new, except Curtis has not been renewed and he still has some OLD, past habits that comes back into his new life.  Mariah has married her believed to be prince charming, but soon finds out that she married a frog.  Alicia is no longer 9 years old and she has alot on her mind and Curtis doesn't realize how much of his lifestyle has effected her.  Kimberly has written a great continuation to \\"Casting the First Stone.\\"  Curtis Black is back and ooooooooooh, All I can say is in Adrienne's mind \\"Once you go Curtis Black! You never go back!!\\"	2005-03-14
US	38518257	RIYXGEEDXECUS	0446531820	123187829	Flippin' the Script	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lights, camera, ACTION!!	Darci Oliver is the high profiled talk show host, who is dangling lives by the strands, cause she is a Diva in all the fashion.  When the lights are out, she is the Wicked Witch in action, believing that she is \\"All that and a bag of chips.\\"  She has her employees scared, but everyone's who climbs the ladder if not careful will fall off the ladder.  Sabrina Duncan is a God fearing, sweet, assistant, who is used more for girl friday duties, than real production business, due to her powerful boss \\"Darcie.\\"  Sabrina becomes one the panel employees on the talk show and life takes a 360 degree turn for Sabrina and those connected to her.  Avery is the handsome Producer who has final say on the show and business and is victim to the \\"prominent Darcie\\" until he pursues other venues within the office and the \\"Stage performance begins.\\"  Sabrina has an ace in her corner, which most don't understand and that is her faith in God and her prayer life and humbleness allows her advantages that she is not always aware of, and God does protect his in the end and in this story, her angel ends up being a SUNNY day in the office, when she thought the storm was turning devastating for her.  This story tells of realism in Corporate, the storms that we have to go through, and the reality of being a Christian among the world.\\"  I really enjoyed the story and you won't be able to figure this storyline out, it is definitely a pageturner and a surprising array of events.  Very good job Aisha Ford.	2005-02-11
US	38518257	R32WO89STACSF2	0312286872	132456256	What's a Woman to Do?	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A woman's gotta do, what a woman's got to do... !!!	Victor McGlothin has written a tremendous story that is so captivating and real.  You start this book and won't want to put it down.  Janeen, Joyce, Sissy are 3 sisters from Newberry Louisiana and they have put Newberry behind them.  Janeen has made a name for herself and is a career woman with values and virtues,then in walks Janeen's fantasy and what is a woman to do when the man in your fantasy is in the flesh, but she is married to Ray.  Women really need to know who they are marrying, `cause it doesn't matter how long you are with someone, you still may not know them.  Joyce and Janeen know something that Sissy doesn't know, but that's alright, `cause Sissy knows something that they don't know.  Sissy is also  a woman who knows men and she has what it takes to turn a head and quiet a room in a mere second, but then in walks Mr. Cooper after 3  years, what is a woman to do??  Secrets unravel and let the truth be told, when Joyce & Janine's bookclub decides to read a bestseller about women of  Newberry.  Uhhhhhhhhhh, who is this author, let the story be told.  You will not predict the course of this novel nor the ending, so if you really want a good read, go ahead and get this book and trust me on this, you will enjoy it. <br />  Great Job Victor McGlothin!!!!!!!!!!!!   <br />	2005-02-07
US	38518257	R3L5I65VIOQ6OQ	0446532479	971842614	Boaz Brown	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How do you love? Conditional or Gods Unconditional way?	Much Applause to Michelle Stimpson for stepping out and bringing to the pages of black & white, the real color of GRAY.  LaShondra Smith is a successful, strong, single woman with a close knit family & life long friends and most importantly she has established a strong personal walk with GOD.  LaShondra just wants what every woman desires, a strong, sucessful, I will be there for you man, and she is praying for him.  In walks Stelson Brown, a successful, strong, drop dead gorgeous, man with a secure & confident relationship with GOD.  OK so what is the problem, What LaShondra has been praying for is What Stelson is, well almost.  LaShondra finds out that life, love & faith don't always come exactly like you dreamed.  When faith, love are put to the test, what do you do? LaShondra quickly learns that she has to deal with her past, her present, that is if she wants to have a happy future.  Michelle Stimpson has brought an eye opener fo many in this story.  Just remember to never say never & if you want a Boaz, you will have to be a Ruth!	2004-10-23
US	38518257	R2ZPWT8GEBIY6V	0375757058	188655040	Sittin' in the Front Pew: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Every family has to deal with sittin in the front pew.	The Naylor girls are faced with the tragedy at hand and in the mist of their despair they are individual volcanoes ready to erupt. Renee, Collette, Dawn, Glynda have to deal with their loss but oh my goodness these sisters can be more than a handful.  Just when you thought that things could not get any worse, in walks the mysterious Nina, who sheds light on a dark secret that the sisters never knew was their.  Then their is Estelle, Edwards fiance and Oh you definitely want to meet her child \\"Jamaica.\\"  As this group deals with the preparations and grieving of their loss loved one, they have to deal with each other and Oh my goodness \\"Collette\\" takes the whole cake in this story.  Reading this book made me realize that we all have family members that are depicted in this book and unfortunately, you have to realize that at some time in your life you will be sitting on the front pew.  Oh one more character that you want to meet is \\"Roberta\\" honey that child needs some serious help.  I think that she really believes she is a Naylor. Parry Brown has really brought out the emotions and craziness that happens when mourning begins and preparations are to be made.  Good job Parry.	2004-10-23
US	38518257	R20NJKVJT3EU95	0385495064	704634049	What Becomes of the Brokenhearted: A Memoir	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Brave, Courageous, Exquisite.	E.Lynn Harris deserves more than a 5 star rating. The reason for that is how could I rate the book any less than the max, when a person puts on paper their life?!  I would be saying that God created a imperfect life for E.Lynn Harris (I wouldn't dare say that).  E.Lynn Harris has written about his life (real life) not fictional characters.  He put on paper his innermost feelings and it doesn't matter what people think, it is his life and actually he didn't write it, he just lived it.  I thank him for sharing his personal struggle with homosexuality, bisexuality, abuse, misfortune, low self esteem, friendship, corporate america and his struggles.  I felt for \\"Lynn\\" and I am glad that he had the courage to put on paper his memoirs cause it sheds a different light on how a man deals with heterosexuality vs. homosexuality and the secret torment of being in the closet.  Very enlightening and he deserves more stars for having the courage to write it. Keep on E.Lynn...Keep on.	2004-10-23
US	38518257	R3FGET616F3990	0974690902	726766904	Mass Deception (Volume 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Soooooooooooooo Do you really know who you're in love with??	Hallema, Hallema, Hallema has done it! She has made a name for herself in the realm of writing good stories.  This is a page turner and never a boring moment, she sticks to the story and keeps the reader interested.  All the characters are very interesting and have stories of their own.  Toni is confident, top notch, career oriented diva who wants love and has a man that will go over mountains and through valleys for her, but he doesn't know the real Toni and she is too afraid to tell him about her past.  Toni's best friend \\"Devon\\" is a real work of art also, Devon has secured his future and is flamboyant in all ways.  Sean, Toni's assistant has some secrets of his own and Toni thinks she knows them, but she would be surprised at the truth if she ever found out.  Toni's girls are all diva's and they definitely bring some excitement and interest to the \\"mass deception.\\"  This is definitely a must read...I am recommending it to everyone I know.  Very well done Hallema, now hurry up and finish the sequel....	2004-09-10
US	38518257	R1BTM36UYNN2IX	0312324294	517053561	Like the First Time: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ambition, Dreams, Tantalizing....	This is a great read. The story line is never boring and shows so much realism in characters. With each situation and turn of the page, you were in tune with the storyline from beginning to end. This story shows how unplanned, unfortunate, unknown circumstances which at times seems good or at other possible terrible can bring about life altering changes that will have you looking deep within and doing things that you are not in the habit of doing. Your past can teach you lessons that will enhance your future. I would love to visit &quot;Bliss&quot; and this should not be a fictional place. Ms. Ray has totally done an excellent job, never boring. I definitely recommend this book. If you want an enjoyable read, pick this up. It is not a fairytale romance or a disheartening fiction, you actually feel and can visualize each character. Very Well done Ms. Ray	2004-08-02
US	38518257	R2D5DUHNQVU77M	0312968280	135867224	Rosie's Curl And Weave	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Relaxing....	These 4 authors have delightfully composed 4 lovely stories.  Rochelle Alers &quot; Special Delivery&quot; simply what a man what a man, what a mighty good man.  Felicia's Mason &quot; In Love again&quot; it is nice to know that love is not limited to the twenty crowd.  Finding love is hard the first time, but when you find it again after thinking that you wouldn't it is simply divine.  Donna Hills &quot; Just like that&quot; is a page turner and is beautifully developed and set up&gt; she shows us that Mother knows best and has excellent timing in match making.  Francis Ray &quot;Awakening&quot; is a lovely story of love being seen, not just skin deep, but with the heart.  Each one of these stories are a relaxing love story that if you want to relaxe and be totally engulfed, is a must read.  A luxurious bath and a cold glass, with scented candles is the scene set to read this book!  Excellent work to all the authors.	2004-07-08
US	38518257	R26HO7ROWBKVHX	0974533602	149997818	Rap Superstar	Books	4	0	0	N	N	hip hop in love....	This is definitely a hip hop love story.  Well constructed.  Debra Clayton has gone behind the scenes to show that supestar Animalistic wants to give up his playa status.  Randi Jacobs lets Animalistic know that she is not a groupie and even though she is a fan.  Animalistic almost has it all and just when he is accomplishing the inevitable and he has it all, he allows the &quot;lady&quot; to blow it for him.  Randi cannot believe that he has done this to her, no matter how much money you have, how fine you may be, mansions, ice dripping on your wrist, love will bring you to your knees. This story is a turbulant ride, but that is how love goes.  You are up and flying high one day and then the next you are low and scraping the ground, when you start to get back up, you do have some scars and bandaids.  Some cuts and breaks take years to mend.  This is a easy read.	2004-06-10
US	38518257	R324S5SL8KDPV4	1575669080	356224225	Baby Momma Drama	Books	5	1	1	N	N	He has done it again...captured the real drama....	Carl Weber gets better and better with each book. This book is definitely titled correctly.  Baby Momma Drama has enough drama in it to make a tv series. Lets start with Stephanie, typical got a good thang (Travis) going and wants to go back and mess it all up, cause she can't turn away from the wicked, low down, good for nothing, can't pay child support, he got it going on only in the bedroom past(Malek).  Jasmine, lets just say stuck on stupid (Derrick). Jasmine is a lady in waiting, waiting on the no good brotha to straighten up but honey if you  glued him straight up to a pole, he would still be crooked and bent.  Derrick is a pitiful excuse of a man,but unfortunately he is a brotha that may live next door to you.  Derrick is definitely a user and abuser and a good woman is not for him. O and honey if I was Jasmine,I would have cut that brotha loose at the beginning and lets not talk about Wendy, Wendy is definitely a baby momma drama queen. oooooooh but when a brotha loans your (shhhh)you gotta read this to know what happens, I just won't tell you...ooooh this story is hot and I suggest you go buy it today and read it, cause DRAMA DRAMA DRAMA it has.  Every character in this story is a trip from Big Mama on through.	2004-06-10
US	38518257	R1R2ZME9FLVL92	0974518824	168523081	Small Packages	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Simply &quot;HOT&quot;!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	I cannot describe this book other than to tell you it is &quot;HOT.&quot;  It is a must read for book clubs, because it is set around a book club, it is like reading double and it is extraordinary in its own rights.  Sydney Molare has captured a style of writing that is not duplicated by any known writer today.  This is a page turner and will keep you interested.  The book club members are 4 women who differ in alot of ways but have the love of reading on their sides, while at this club meeting, they are introduced to a novel by an unknown author and the pages to the story get hot.  You will find yourself siding with the club members and hollering at them when they interrupt the story.  The club members reveal alot of revelations while discussing this manuscript.  While contemplating on the members you are intrigued and mesmerized by Chance and Analisa.  I don't want to give away any pivotal points in this book, so trust me on this...You want to read it.  I look forward to reading more by: Sydney Molare and hope that we will get more of Analisa and Chance and also the club members cause they all have a story to tell.	2004-05-05
US	38518257	RXCT4KDGXEQQ8	1583144870	630544914	Straight To The Heart (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mirror on the wall...reveal to me what I'm doing wrong!!	Monique, a mature woman must face the facts that she needs to do some soul searching cause at 40 years old, her life is crumbling and it is not everyone around her.  Monique has decided to go on a voluntary sabbatical from men. She is going to do some deep down soul searching and will not get involved with any man until she has turned herself inside out and right side up.  As she moves back to her moms hometown, and is faced with a family crisis, she indulges in working for her uncles bed and breakfast.  Just as she thought this vacation from men would clear her thoughts, in walks the handsome,strong, construction workers supervisor, who will be in town for a while.  Monique has men drooling over her and showing her mad attention, but the one and only man that she can even consider thinking about is not showing her the time of day.  Mac is strong,responsible and when he first lays eyes on Monique red flags jump out at him.  He realizes that he needs to let her be, his better judgement tells him to stay away,but as time goes on he realizes that his eys like what they see.  After spending sometime together and becoming friends, they come into a bump in the road and Mac realizes that his first instincts of Monique were true, but even when your mind tells you one thing, your heart feels another.  Monique realizes that she has to change and then as circumstances evolve she learns along with Mac that she has changed and definitely for the better.  With this story you learn and will understand that physical beauty is only an attribute to getting the recognition of admirers, but is not the foundation of sustaining a relationship and finding a soul mate. You will also find that the one thing that you think makes you beautiful, you may be able to live without.  What really makes a person is not where you work, how much money you make, where you live or where you are from, and not how long your hair is or flawless your skin is, your beauty is much deeper. Also, you will learnas Monique learned that it is not always about YOU!! If you are not careful, you may wake up and find that you are the only one that thinks that You are all that and then some, and then you will have YOU all to yourself, while those you had are involved and committed to someone else.  I recommend that you read &quot;Love Affair&quot; along with this one, so you will have a complete understanding of Monique. This is not a smoochy, ooooooooooh romance, but a very real story of love lost and love found.	2004-03-17
US	38518257	R2VZCFZGPTJ2MV	0446530336	224129913	Second Sunday: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Time to show out, act up, it is............Second Sunday.	Michelle Andrea Bowen has captured the drama and behind the scenes mess that goes on in church.  Gethsemane Missionary Baptist Church is approaching its 100th yr anniversary, when months before the anniversary date, the presiding pastor dies.  This leaves the church board of deacons and board of finance to select the next Pastor of the Church.  The women of the Church decide that it is time to step forth and have a say so in who runs the church, because the men do not know what they are doing.  The men are being guided by Cleavon Johnson and his crooked, scheming, heathen self.  As the church is in turmoil and trying to select a proper, well respected, Spiritual, God Fearing Man to pastor Gethsemane Missionary Baptist Church, alot of devious and unsuspecting bumps in the road occur.  You have your politics and bribery, your womanizing and adultry, your lying and scheming, fear of loving, wives just dealing with doggish husbands, premarital relations, along with old fashioned wisdom and spare the rod philosophy.  It is a little of everything in this story and it is a page turner.  At some points I wanted more.  If you have read Church Folk (debut novel) you may have a tendency to compare the 2 stories and you can't do that.  This story is a stand alone story.  I would have liked more on Pastor George Wilson.  Also, Cleavon and his trifling nephew need to get what they deserve also.  These women need to rise up and put a whooping on them too.  Now the story line did keep me reading. Its a story that you want to know how it ends and it has some surprising events occur, also displays true forgiveness and change in people when they truelly become saved.	2003-12-02
US	38518257	RGHCJ2CKZKJVE	1583142932	776010600	Atlanta Live!	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Tom, Sybil, Jay better watch out...............	To begin I have a hard time rating this book I give it more like 3 1/2 stars... I will explain the rating at the end of the review.  Atlanta Live is a  radio talk show. Dr Jasmine, Evelyn and Malone are the commentators.  They are not just co-workers, they are friends from way back.  Dr. Jasmine is the hard rock, pushed you to the limit and reel you back in personality, gives advice for troubles, but off the show she is falling into darkness because of her extravagant, don't want to go back to where I come from lifestyle.  Evelyn is sweet, concerned, caring wish my family could just love me, I am here for you, Christian personality, problem is she is in love with the holier than thou preacher man. Evelyn needs to learn to love herself and stand up and be a WOMAN!  Malone is the buff ex jock who is dreaming of a comeback, with the crazy ex wife.  Their lives all come to a dramatic jolt when they receive a call from a young woman and Dr J pushes the limits on this call.  Jasmine finds her world spinning out of control and she has put herself in a very destructive lifestyle.  Malone finds that troubles don't last always, but deceit and heartaches and thinning pockets, he must endure first.  Evelyn is betrayed and her secret from her past comes out, and it sets her into a world of despair, but a jolt of reality that you cannot hide, removes the blinders from her eyes and she finds that Love was right in front of her all along.  This trio endures more havoac and jealousy, outrage, and the pages turn on their own.  I thought this book was glued to my hands. At the same time I couldn't put it down but I also feel like something was missing  and that is why I have rated it 3 1/2 stars... Carmen Green is my home girl and a great writer, but I wanted more with Jasmine, not enough background and explanation behind her behavior or the events in her life.  I can see a sequel to this book, because Jasmine is a story all alone and her character did not prevail from the obstacles.Also, Carvel I understood he was a preacher, but what is up with this brother?  Did he only want Evelyn because of her parents wealth and respect, because I kept thinking that maybe he was tipping out with a church member.  How are you going to be a man of God, and still carry judgement on someone you claim to love? Just wanted more. Carmen bring us Jasmines story &quot;Pu.....leeeeeeeezee!!!!	2003-11-22
US	38518257	R1IXEV8QC2U4HV	1575669226	418370508	Perfect Fit	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Mix a Angel with some Spice and what do you get??	Gabe Blackwell is a gorgeous, successful, attentative man who has had his heart broke already.  Not looking for love he meets \\"Sage Dunbar\\" a beautiful, successful, very engaged, living with fiance, manager of marketing.  Fron the beginning this couple is intriguing.  When the 2 men in Sage's life totally devastate her, convincing her that men cannot be trusted, the last thing she is looking for is a man or getting involved in any committed relationship.  Now that Sage has met Mr. Blackwell and she is publicly disappointed in Erol, the fire is crackling the timbers, but Gabe has already been jilted by a love who could not get over her past and he will not go down that road again, so he is direct and very skeptical of Sage.  Now you have Betrayal, distrust, sexual harassment, friendship, conditional love, unconditional love and a story that will keep you turning the pages and anxious for Brenda Jackson to write about Rose and Parnell, cause they have to get together.<BR>****Brenda jackson has a smoothe writing style.  Her intimate scenes are tasteful & intriguiing.  She covers all the basis.****	2003-09-25
US	38518257	R148GML6KF92OU	0373764790	791395171	A Younger Man (Silhouette Desire # 1479)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Merci' What a man.....	Kumi (Jerome) Walker maybe younger than Veronica, but oh he is not inexperienced or immature.  This man has the right words, the right moves and definitely the determination necesssary to be successful.  Veronica has been traumatized and through alot in her life and truthfully she needed counseling.  After becoming a very wealthy widow and going to her hideaway for some rest and relaxation, she accidentally meets Kumi.  Kumi comes from a very well to do family and has been out of the country, but his appearance and attitude does not giveaway his breeding or his knowledge and intelligence.  Kumi gives Veronica something that she hasn't had and he finds the experience of a lifetime.  It shows that a woman is not really old, cause she is over 40 and sometimes age does not make a difference.  I enjoyed the story.  It is a fast read and keeps you interested.  Good job Rochelle Alers.	2003-09-22
US	38518257	R2MRAWM36USCY9	0385492707	221350941	A Love of My Own: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Triumph, Turmoil, Reality, Dreams......All up in here!!	E.Lynn Harris is like a fine wine, gets better with time.  His writing and story telling gets better with each novel he writes.  He has re-introduced Raymond Tyler in this story and the breath taking Basil Henderson.  Raymond and Trent have called it quits and Trent has moved on leaving Raymond feeling broken.  Raymond has decided to move from Seattle to New York.  Here in New York, Raymond rekindles feelings for Basil, gains understanding of living one day at a time.  High Powered Billionaire Davis is a living legend on paper and in the eyes of the media, but you soon learn that he has some dark secrets that I look forward to reading more about in future writings.  Yancy B and her mother (Ava) are back and up to their old tactics that turns critical.  Zola is the brains behind \\"bling bling\\" but she learns that it is not her brains that has secured her future.  E.Lynn Harris has introduced some very interesting characters and he has implemented the real life tragedies of 9-11 into this and it makes it very real and sets the perfect stage for the characters.  I know that Raymond is not tilting the scales and has admitted to being \\"gay\\" and not \\"bi-sexual\\" but the chemistry in this book, made me want him and Zola to hook up and for her to turn him out, and put him back on the straight and narrow and let Basil and Trent and all those other confused brothers see that he is no longer available and let Raymond have a real love of his own.  People love Raymond, and his honesty and morals and emotions are very enticing in a world of deception and confusion.  I believe that you will thoroughly enjoy this story and will be waiting for more.  Kudos to Mr. Harris and I think that his writing has improved one hundred fold.	2003-08-07
US	38518257	R2HYDK37IF7M1	0060505656	637267931	A Taste of Reality: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Unfortunately It Is Reality!	Before I start, please do not allow my rating to discourage you from reading this book! This is an excellent story and is definitely a page turner, you will not want to put it down.  I will explain my rating in a moment.<BR>   Anise is a educated black woman with morals, she is married to a successful black man (David) who is insecure in himself.  He is the worse type a black man, one who ridicules his own race and places himself above all others.  He evens demeans the one person that he has vowed to cherish, His Wife! Anise works for a racist run company and is making less money and is constantly overlooked because she is a black woman, which is a double whammy.  She realizes that her marriage is falling apart and is ready to take responsiblity for her contribution to he mess it is in and has a night of passion that she believes will be a turning point in her marriage, when she incidently discovers that her sellout husband has betrayed her in the worse way.  Now something that she least expects happens, a white man is attracted to her and against all odds, Frank is all the man she needs, but then is he too good to be true?  Fed up with the mess her life is in, and determined to stop allowing these men in her life stomp all over her, she takes control.  She has a plan for her racist superiors and with a little help, she shows them that this backwood black woman (a nice way of saying what they think of her) is one to be reckoned with.  She also has a turn of events for her husband, he thinks that he will manipulate her out of half of everything, convincing her to leave the marriage with what she came in with, but she is no fool and will soon learn if anyone is losing out on anything it is him.  She does flip the script on all of them, including her one true friend that she thought she had at work.  Kimberla has really shown a tail spin in this novel, with one woman dealing with racist superiors, a selfish sellout husband, and the desires of a fruitful career and family life!  I do recommend this book! Excellent book for book clubs, alot to discuss.<br />Now for my rating, I rated this a 3 and would really give the first section of the book a 4 and the last a 3, because Anise doesn't handle the situation quite like I hoped and I didn't get any satisfaction at the very end.  I wanted more with David and as for Frank I was truelly disappointed and wanted more.  Maybe there will be a sequel, at least I hope so!	2003-07-18
US	38518257	R1MODNE20TRUME	0060011483	499848218	The Chocolate Ship	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Oooh la la a chocolate lovers delight.	Mia and Miles are in a relationship that's headed to a committment but Miles doesn't seem ready.  As they are on this cruise which is an extraordinary adventure & once in a lifetime experience, you realize they have a healthy love life.  Mia seems much more mature & committed to Miles, then he is to her, but you learn Mile has some surprises.  This cruise was suppossed to be a girls getaway but now Mia is with Miles on the cruise & Bianca her bestfriend is with her teenage son. There are many characters in this story & they're all pretty interesting in their own way.  Kelly and Scott seemed to be doomed from the beginning.  Here they are supposedly celebrating their wedding anniversary, but they are spending time in all the wrong places.  Kelly goes straight sistah gurl on Scott, but then flips the script in a shocking twist of interest.  Billionaire owner of the Chocolate ship is an arrogant b.m.w.  He definitely needs to be put in his place.  He proves that a Black Man Working with boo coo bucks can do whatever he wants and can get away with it.  Winter Jackson only one word describes this woman, \\"Tramp.\\"  This story is an easy read, and will keep you interested all the way.  You have a little of everything here, success, love, betrayal, deception, hate.  It is also females tripping, males tripping.  Very Good!<br />I'm waiting for a sequel because I know that the Captain has a story of his own, Tangie? Mr. Chocolate Ship Owner himself (Delmonte Harrison) has a story for sure.	2003-07-17
US	38518257	R2PPGC3Q9GTFSI	0446530344	153815819	I Say a Prayer for Me: One Woman's Life of Faith and Triumph	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Living Testimony !	This book is recommended for the Saved and the Un-saved! This story is a living testimony that God is an awesome, loving, compassionate God and that no matter where you are in your life, you can overcome and succeed.  I found this book to be unlike any other, and the testimony to be so wonderful, because Stanice is not 15 or early 20's when the greatness turns her life around.  Stanice Anderson is in her 30's and 40's when her life is turned around.  Stanice is a victim of a dysfunctional family where love is not openly expressed, she is abused over the course of her life by her parents, the men she involves herself with and at the tender innocent age of 14, she is violated physically and then threatened into silence.  She turns to drugs and her life is then spun into the disasters of addiction.  Stanice is on the road to death, but even overdosing and actually flat lining, God spares her life and knows she is not ready for death and he lifts her up and out of the realms of death to straighten out her life.  Stanice talks of the goodness and unconditional love of God, but she shows us the struggles that you face emotionally, physically, spiritually, when you are fighting to stay focused and away from your addiction, when you are trying to understand and forgive the loved ones in your life who have not been good or understanding your needs in your life.  She leaves behind her son when she twirls into the world of drug abuse, now she has to learn all over again how to be a mother and put her childs needs before her wants.  God is very apparent in Stanice's life and it is a good thing that God is real and his Word is unwavering, because this testimony is proof that God will never leave you nor forsake you.  If you ever have been a victim of anything or have a loved one who is battling an addiction or if you feel that you have not accomplished what you should have in life at the age you are now, or just unsure of the Love God has for you, then I strongly recommend thisbook, it will show you in realism how God has a plan for each and everyones life and you have to just trust in him and he will turn it all around for you for your good.  The bad in your life will be turned around for your good.  This is a story with a prayer at each close and it is absolutely dynamic.  Reading this story I feel like God has used Stanice Anderson to touch many lives and you will definitely get something out of it.  For those who shy away from books that Promote Gods love because you think it is religious, trust me this is not religious and structural, this is Spiritual and Inspirational and a guide to getting your life where you want it to be.  You will not be disappointed.  <br />To the Author: Stanice Anderson, You have put a masterpiece in writing and thank you so much for sharing your life turmoils and also gratifying experiences with the public.  You are Blessed and the pages in this book are proof.	2003-07-15
US	38518257	R2HWA3N7KUUXKP	158314255X	288257101	A Change Is Gonna Come	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Have Faith!  Take a good look at yourself.	Jacquelin Thomas has really told a story that teaches all a lesson.  You have to sometimes go through some very turbulant situations, to sit down and take a good look at yourself and learn where you need to change, and if you aren't careful the change will happen without you having any control.  The women in this story are all friends, with issues that they haven't been able to see in themselves.  Cordelia goes to church, works hard at being a civil servant, but she has lacked the vision to see what is needed in her own family, in her own life.  She is so strong headed, that in the time of her crisis, she feels like God has abandoned her and has inflicted her life with unbearable obstacles. (Fortunately for Cordelia, God doesn't work like that) so she has to learn what so many Christians learn, that whatever you are going through, God is going to bring you through and make something good out of it. Tangie has hidden fears,and doesn't realize it.  She has to make amends with her past to be happy in the future.  Sabrina, oh my goodness, if I could just jump in this story, I would string this little lady up and shake the foolishness right out.  Sabrina is too busy manipulating and being selfish and nosey that she can't see, her destruction is by her own hands, she finds pleasure in someone else's money and assets, that she can't see what is really important, she is too busy using everyone around her, that she doesn't see that she is falling.  Too used to walking over people. Sabrina has to lose everything, love, friendship, respect, and material possessions, to finally wake up.  Bonnie, has lost her soul mate and can't get it together, she learns to lean and have faith, face her fears and accomplishes the tasks that will open up new doors of success for her.  All these women learn from their actions in the past, that has destined their present.  Most importantly they all learn at some high prices, that you look in the mirror to fix the situations first.<BR>I commend Jacquelin Thomas for her writing technique and in reading this book, it is not just a story, but also a mild spiritual self help reference.  Place yourself in the role of one of the characters, or one of their situations and let Faith guide you.	2003-07-03
US	38518257	R34DOUW870F7DS	0970010281	142547594	And on the Eighth Day She Rested	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unbelieveable!!!	From the first page of this story, you know what is going on.  Ruth has low self esteem and has been through so much her whole life.  She adored her mother and her mother loved her, but her mothers lifestyle gave Ruth no idea of how to handle herself.  Her grandmother was abusive and did not hide her feelings of what she thought of Ruth or her mother.  Eric is the husband from hell. He is NASTY in every way, shape and form.  Bernie, Mae, Clara are all women who make a real difference in Ruths life and Adrian gives her another chance at love, after Eric has ruined that vision.  J.D. Mason does not tip toe around this story, she is straight to the point, very direct and you don't have to imagine a scene, she writes the scene so you forget you are not actually witnessing the drama.  You will read this book cover to cover.  Ruth has changed and grown, but I want her to do more to Eric, because that poor excuse for a man and I am really being nice in my wording, because to describe Eric would be to just use 4 letter and 5 letter words only.  What Eric does to Ruth after all those years was pure cruelty and Ms. Bobbitts method is too good for him.  You will get mad, but you have to read it.	2003-06-21
US	38518257	RAN4V189VWJQQ	0743246926	769740696	God's Gift to Women: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Playa' or not - Crazy is just crazy!	Michael Baisden has done it again,with a very intriguiing story line. Julian is a direct, career climbing, celebrity in the making, single father. His last night in Chicago celebrating turns out to be a nightmare in Houston. Olivia is best described as do not under any circumstances judge a book by its cover. Olivia takes this obsession and revenge on men to a whole new level. Julian is a typical man, not admitting or realizing sooner that he is dealing with a derranged, will do anything, possessed female. Julian has unknowningly compromised the safety of his daughter, Terri, friends, anyone he is close to, and hisself, all because he allowed the apple to look delicious and didn't realize there was worm at the core. All men who allow their hormones to control their lives and think that the package is so beautiful with out learning the contents of the box can learn from Julian that just because it is dipped in chocolate doesn't make it sweet. This is a page turner and a must read.	2003-06-21
US	38518257	R1OKEN9G5HG6EW	1585710687	933729027	Still Waters Run Deep (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Turbulant waves, Hurricane winds....	This is a good sequel to Rivers of the Soul.  Antoinette and Jerome have the weights of too many on their shoulders.  After 20 years of being apart and married to others, they have discovered that the love they have is deep rooted to sustain the responsibilities that they have.  Combined they have children and ex's to deal with, along with a host of friends and family members that have major issues.  As they struggle with employment, they are struck hard with death approaching some very close family and friends.  They realize their love is strong and that they have major responsibillities and they are not love struck teenagers.  They also realize that mistakes that they made in the past, have to be rectified. Everyone learns what needs to be done, after a tragedy strikes.  You have a little bit of everything in this story and the supporting characters are excellent.  You laugh, and you Cry, I wanted to whoop up on Jerome's wife.  Excellent Job! Easy read.	2003-06-10
US	38518257	R1M77GWV8T8APX	0671042246	700526003	Everything In Its Place	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Melancholy	Ms. Palfrey is an extraordinary writer.  Her characters are very real and even without alot of description, you can visualize their appearance.  I enjoy reading about mature adults and women larger than a size 8.  This was a relaxing read, but for me it was missing something.  I can't put my finger on it, but the end result to the suspense surrounding Darlene, was not fulfilling.  Bobbi and Ray are very real, dealing with situations that alot of people face. The realization that as a parent you have done all you can, but don't want to see what is right in front of your face.  Darlene should have told Bobbi along time ago about Monee's father, but It is understandable why she didn't.  Bobbi handled the situation with Reverend Jackson better than most people would have.  Ms Palfrey has built an interesting group of characters in this book, Sonny and Darlene have a story to tell.  Loretta has her own story, Vivian and her ex I believe have a interesting story.  I would rate this book a 3 1/2 stars.  It was good, but I wanted more.	2003-04-04
US	38518257	R12V0DERMYQC6P	1575669110	298301416	Gonna Lay Down My Burdens	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Friends, Family, Life all mean Burdens.	Mary Monroe has captured the realistic essence of carrying heavy Burdens through your life. Carmen should have laid down the law and released the guilt and burdens she carried for so many years a long long time ago.  Carmen was strong, yet very weak, she cheated herself out of happiness because of loyalty and committment to friendship and also because she was scared.  sometimes you have to tell the truth, relieve your stress and accept the consequences behind your actions.  Burl was a leach and had issues because of his Mother and even though Carmen was partly to blame for his accident, she was not whole heartedly the blame, Burl was intoxicated and probably would have fallen even if she had not been there and done her trick on him. Burl was vindictive because he should have told her long ago that he had remembered the day and allowed her to be there for him out of love and friendship and not guilt.  Chester wasn't bad, just misunderstood and hurt, he carried around a lot of disappointment and he acted out in the wrong way especially with Desiree, he should have never gotten involved with her, because he wasn't inlove with her and she wasn't with him.  This story shows reality and how people go through life accepting responsibility for actions committed as children and it effects their adulthood.  All the characters in this story have significant issues that should have been handled differently, unfortunately some actions are detrimental to life.  Very well written and very realistic.  I don't think I could have carried around all the burdens these characters did, explosive.  I love the books cover also.	2003-04-03
US	38518257	R1OQ8Z08JL8VTK	0375760474	63738527	No More Mr. Nice Guy: A Love Story (Strivers Row)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Don't Wanna Be a Player No More......	C.Kelly Robinson has done a very good job, showing that Mr.Nice Guys usually do finish last.  Mitchell Stone is just the type of man that women say they want, but he realizes that in the game of love he will be overlooked, always the good Friend.  He is successful, respectful, comes from a good family, has morals, but is limited to the thrills of love.  When Nikki Coleman scales him down to &quot;just a friend,&quot; Mitchell throws in the towel.  Oh but being a Player has its UPS and its Downs, and he soon finds out, that you have to be true to yourself, and you can't let others change you.  Women always say that they want a Nice brotha, but they engage themselves with the Dogs of the world more than any will admit.  Most women have to admit, it is more fun with the Player, because it is competition and makes you feel so special when you are the one, that can get him to throw away his player card, but women play hard too... When you finally realize that you are tired of being a notch in a belt, or a booty call all the time, then you want Mr.Nice Guy.  C.Kelly Robinson shows us all that if Mr.Nice Guy flips the script and becomes a bonafide &quot;woof woof&quot; he becomes more attractive.  The characters are displayed in colorful form in this story and some of the &quot;playas&quot; get played.  Tony, Trey, Mitchell,Jomo,Barry,along with Nikki, Gina, Leslie, Angie,Tasha, Juanita... and the others make a very interesting conclusion in the game of LOVE.  You will enjoy this story... READ it for yourself. It is fast paced, you will not have time to get bored.	2003-02-01
US	38518257	R2BE18NLZQN7SV	1583142959	914946364	Ladies In Waiting	Books	5	15	15	N	N	What are you waiting for????????	Linda Hudson Smith has done a wonderful job in writing this very enlightening and inspirational story.  You will be enlightened on a number of things once you read this book.  Marlene, Alexis, Rosalinda, Keisha all have their own delimma and they are all different in a number of ways, but one thing is very common in these women, they are all Ladies in Waiting.  Marlene is a Spirit filled patient woman with 2 men in her life, both that she loves unconditionally but in loving them, she is hurting them and herself.  She has a lot to teach, but also a lot to learn.  Alexis has the world at her fingertips, but she has allowed the man in her life to just take over and she has put more into him and what he thinks that she has forgotten how to think for herself.  Keisha is a young mother with obligations that should allow her to see straight, but she can't see past Zach, and even though she is fore warned on numerous occasions, she just can't let go.  Rosalinda is caught up and  messed up with Ric.  Some men are just scum face it.  All these women are victims and accessories.  They do find common ground and it is compelling to watch this story unwind, it is also very interesting to look into the lives of these men behind these women.  From cover to cover this story is a page turner.  It is filled with Inspiration and insight with a realism that is so compelling.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading.  You will see the power of Prayer, the work of committed women, the strength that God gives and the ghetto mentality of two bit hustlers and their victims.  You will find that money doesn't always bring you happiness, and being on welfare doesn't make you nasty.  GO and get this book if you don't have it.  You will enjoy it.	2003-01-11
US	38518257	R3NHPPDJCHWVOI	1583142762	812995873	Closer Than Close (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Refreshing!  What do you do when you make more money?	Ivy Smith in in her late thirtys and is a hardworking and established woman.  she is not romantically involved with anyone and her Twentieth Class reunion is approaching.  Ivy wants to attend the reunion, but she does not want to attend this event without a date.  She is perceived as very successful in Business, but totally unsuccessful in the romance department.  Her family being the first to think this way.  Ray Jones is an ordinary guy in his Forties who is employed at the US Post office.  He is also a single father with sole custody of his 2 daughters.  Now the views by all is that Ray and Ivy are definitely unevenly matched.  So do you allow finances to run your life totally?  Does a woman have to make less money than a man for the love to prosper? (well you will have to read the book to find out).  Now some say that Mitch is more suitable for Ivy with his Prominent Career and his handsome self, but then there is the Esquisite Bethany, Ivys well to do Friend.  This story tells of Love, relationships between family and friends.  Bettye Griffin has done a extraordinary job with this novel, she has brought this story full circle and it is truelly an enjoyable read.  Fatherhood is a tough job and a joy and you love Yolanda and Maya.  You will also recognize Casey and Elgin as someone you may know also.  I highly recommend this story... very well done.  Also it is a read for anyone, just the right mixture for all readers.	2003-01-08
US	38518257	R3QVGC55VE1CQ	0373764731	238568509	Delaney's Desert Sheikh	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Ooooooooooh! Sheikh captured Delaney!...	Well Well Well... Brenda Jackson has gone into the depths of Jamal and Delaney.  This handsome sheikh and this beautiful woman with no ideas of love, romance, or anything as they both escape to a cabin that is supposed to be secluded and awaiting their individual solitude. Delaney arrives to find that the cabin is not secluded but being occupied by this handsome, yet arrogant Sheikh.  As the both agree that neither is leaving the cabin, they will just have to coexist, which is going to be difficult, since they both are very attracted to one another.  Delaney is sassy and stubborn, and Jamal is straightforward and persistent.  As they begin their game of determination and also persuasion, this story gets HOT! HOT! HOT!!.  This is not like any of Brenda Jacksons other books, you will enjoy and be surprised.  Now Jamal has a secret weapon \\"Ares\\" oooohhh la la..... Now the ultimate force has been released and I truelly believe anyone that is given the pleasure of experiencing \\"ARES\\" will never be the same! This is definitely a must read.  Brenda you have out done yourself or should I say that Prince Jamal has perfected the technique and won!!  Now I also look forward to learning more about Dare, Storm, Thorn, Chase and Stone.  Because I have a feeling that the Westmoreland Brothers will be competition for the Madaris Brothers.  (can't wait...)	2002-11-21
US	38518257	R174M4K7D9B2K8	0743410092	438443092	Douglass' Women: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Being Free ...What does it really mean????????????	THis is a compelling story of 2 women and 1 man.  Frederick Douglass and his wife Anna and his mistress Ottillie.  Anna born free, outside of slavery. A woman destined to live and love, but for her she chose a husband that could not give her all of himself.  Ottillie a 1/2 Jewish & 1/2 Christian woman, not american is also free, well it depends how you describe freedom.  These 2 women have some things in common and they don't realize it.  Anna content on being a good wife, a good mother, provider is trapped by the vows of marriage and the vows of her heart.  Anna is scholastically uneducated, but far more intelligent than she is recognized for.  She is a strong independent, God fearing Black woman with morals.  Ottillie is a scholastically very well educated and intelligent, White woman, she has found a desire love for a runaway slave.  She believes she is so intelligent and his equal and she convinces him that she is more suitable for him than his own wife.  The question here is does she trap this man, or is she the one that is caught?  The author has shown 2 women involved with one high profiled man in society and who has an agenda to make a change in the world.  Jewell Parker Rhodes takes you inside the house, the bedroom the minds of Anna Murray Douglass, Ottillie Assing, Frederick Bailey Douglass.  You learn that even with no formal education, Anna Murray Douglass is very intelligent.  Ottillie Assing with her formal education and ability to speak many languages and being a white woman, in all actuality is not very smart.  Frederick Douglass has forgotten or never knew Anna Murray.  Reading this novel, please have an open mind and read it by placing yourself in the time of this era.  I give it 5 stars because it is well written.	2002-11-11
US	38518257	R2LP19LJWPRQNT	0684862875	94072034	The FLIP SIDE OF SIN	Books	4	0	1	N	N	"Don't give up on Faith...Just Worldly People..."	Rosalyn McMillan truelly an artistic Author. Outstanding job with this novel.  This one is a page turner.  Isaac is just a man down on his luck with a wife and son, after a argument at home,he leaves and this night will change his life forever.  After 12 years he is back in familiar surroundings, but quickly realizes how different things are, even though some things are still the same, just more complicated like love.  Out of love the truth has been with held from Isaac, Peyton, Kennedy, Rosemary, Jesse and many others.  It may not have been the right thing to do, but I was only protecting you, is the situation.  As time is moving on, Isaac proves that he is a gifted saxophone player and not a vicious criminal.  Rosemary is a woman with a strong faith, but even she shows us that Christians still can make bad decisions, but in order to stay in good grace, you have to have Forgiveness and Faith.  Rosemary shows this with Paps and the church folks.  They all learn that your friends can be your enemy and your enemy your friend.  This story also shows the corruption in politics and in the police department.  This book is written with very vivid and understandable situations and teaches us to strive, continue to dream, Forgiveness and family and friendship does not have a price tag on it.  The soup kitchen scene is one of my favorites in this book and Peyton and Isaac on New Years Eve.  Roslyn McMillan excellent job.	2002-11-01
US	38518257	R2VBSUY5NR46EF	1585710474	510572746	After The Vows (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	So much love to conquer after the vows.....	This is a supurb anthology by 3 highly talented authors.  In all 3 stories, you find that the love you felt that took you to the alter, is the same love you have to feel to keep your marriage vows.  Leslie Esdaile shows us with Alexander and Edward that marriage the second time around can bring obstacles and guidelines that are crumbs from your first marriage.  Scared that you have made a second mistake in choosing your mate, and you don't want to go through another divorce, you hinder the relationship by not being honest.  Alexander cannot hold back any longer her own needs to be happy and she has to find a way to tell Edward, at the same time Edward has not faced the turmoils of his first wife and his mother and all the rules and control, he has to realize will ruin his second marriage if he doesn't lighten up and see his wife for who she is.  After some disturbing truths are brought to their attention by people who love them, they find there way back to the love that brought them together.  Ms.Esdaile tells this story with reality of second marriages with children involved and also when a spouse does not work toward the future and forget the past.<br />T.T. Henderson does a remarkable job of showing how two people strive and build to have a family and through lack of communication can lose it all.  Camille and Devon have been married for 19 years, have 2 children and a relatively nice life style, but do to a mistake that took place 5 years ago, the lines of communication have been severed and they are on their way to destruction.  Devon has sacrificed to prove to his wife his love for her, but she doesn't see his sacrifice or his pain, so he turns to his friends and drinking to dull the aches.  Camille has silently been miserable and has made her career her life, so she is indulging in work to hide her pain.  When she serves divorce papers to Devon, the anger escalates and they are on a down hill battle, especially when Handsome high powered business man Alexander Touissant comes into the picture.  Camille and Devon are so out of touch, that they don't understand when the other person is trying to wave the white flag, they keep on digging the hole deeper.  Through much heartache and pain, Camille realizes how much she really loves Devon and when she is put in a compromising position, she has time to think things through clearly and understand Devon.  While Devon is sulking and alone and allows his temper to settle because he can now only be mad at hisself, he realizes that he has jumped to the wrong conclusions and he knows Camille better, they finally both realize that there are some give and takes in marriage and with 2 children approaching college, they have each other and there are no limits to what they can achieve together.  Finally realizing each others point of view they are able to recapture the love that brought them to the alter the first time.  (I really liked this story, but I hated Alexander from the very beginning).<br />Jacquelin Thomas has brought the effects of a deadly disease and the destruction it can have on a marriage to light.  she has shown that when love is the key element in the marriage, even a silent killer has no chance and destroying what God has put together.  Reva has been plagued with Breast Cancer and it has comsumed her life, driving her away from Edward and their daughter.  Edward has attempted to be understanding and consoling and wants very much to have things back to normal before the cancer.  He still sees Reva as the beautiful woman that she was when he first married her, but his space and understanding is misinterpreted by Reva as rejection.  Reva is suffering because she hasn't expressed her feeling to him or to herself, she has succumbed to hiding and running away.  Jacquelin Thomas brings this story full circle, showing the reality of this situation and the devastation, but also shows us how love conquers all.  Edward shows Reva through tough love that she has to face the futureand not allow the cancer to stop her from living and she doesn't have to face the battles alone, that is why he is there.  Through his strength, Reva gains courage and comfort and also relief.  Realizing that love is not just skin deep, they are back on track.  So many marriages fall apart when a spouse becomes ill and they don't fight together, so they end up in divorce, this story shows a strong man a couple that are truelly in love.	2002-10-28
US	38518257	R2TEINVY8MXDRQ	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Double Excelsior.... Intriguiing!!!Then Disappointing.	Stephen L. Carter has good concept with this story, but leaves you high and dry at the end.  It took me some time to read this book, I feel it was too long for the ending... Too many fillers.  Half way through the book (about page 350...) I start to get very interested and can't put it down, then I am left with a ending that is less satisfying.  THe main character \\"Misha\\" is left arrangements by his high profiled father the \\"Judge\\" from the time of the Judges death, the game \\"Double Excelsior\\" begins with these so called \\"arrangements\\" left by his father.  From the beginning you are wondering what are the arrangements?  Misha has other issues in his life, his relationship with the other family members, his marriage to Kimmer (Things should have gone differently in this plot) and his professional status at the Law school.  One by one characters are being revealed and pieces of this story are coming together. You have Sally the cousin who has a secret.  Addison the brother who has a secret. Uncle Jack the Judges buddy but who has special connections, The dean, the students, the neighbors, Kimmer the wife, Lionel the student, who is a legendary basketball player, the fbi, the police, the law partners etc... Prominent african american society, Mariah the sister with the conspiracy theory, Abby the sister who died years ago in an accident, ummmmm all have a playing role and a move to make on the chess board of life.  Over all the book has a good plot, to many words to get you there, and a ending that for me was a let down.  If you like thrillers and suspense it will catch your attention.  If you don't mind the time factor of this book, it is a long book and if you don't mind descriptives then go for it.  My book club members read it and some of my other friends, we all have different highlights of the book that intrigue us, but we all agree that it was too long and ended wrong and too many fillers we could have gotten the picture that the room was all white and glistening, we didn't need to know all the fine details of the room. So I rate this book a 3 because it was so long and ended unsatisfying.	2002-10-23
US	38518257	RYKL8SZDS894M	1403305331	123521476	Passion Marks	Books	3	4	7	N	N	You have control over all else...	First, I had a hard time rating this book, because it really depends on what you like to read.  Lee Hayes is being compared in many cases to E.Lynn Harris.  Well I find that he is much more graphic and explicit in his writing and more direct.  Passion Marks is well written.  James has had some turmoil in his life, but have succeeded in making a name for himself and his company.  He has it all a successful career and business, a Mansion, expensive cars and a strong hold on Kevin.  Kevin is mourning the death of his twin brother,and allows himself to be controlled because of his guilt.  Mr.Hayes shows that gay relationships go through the same turmoil that heterosexual relationship can go through.  He shows a more tender, romantic, caring and emotional side in these men, but he also shows the mean, rough, Physical over powering also.  Kevin has the support of his friends, but they only know so much.  Mr.Hayes has balance in this story that shows that  a person has the control to get themselves in and out of situations, by facing their problems head on.  James has been traumatized and has received no help, Kevin should have dealt with his guilt at the time of his twins death and he would not have to deal with all he is going through.  I recommend that you read this book with a open mind, You will not be able to figure out what will happen next, it is not your typical ending or beginning, but it is a easy read.  Mr. Hayes is on his way...  He tells the story so you don't have to imagine anything, you know exactly what is going on.  So Good job Mr. Hayes	2002-10-14
US	38518257	R38L7PGFJM830	1585710598	352389952	Rivers Of The Soul (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	First Loves are never really forgotten...	Antoinette (Toni) has found that going back home after her divorce, has brought on many changes.  The life she wants had with family and friends is all different now.  Her girlfriends are all tripping because of assumptions.  Her Step mother is trying too hard to be a mother figure. She never thought that she would be in this place, a single mother. She always dreamed that her marriage would be like her parents, but here she is back in Philadelphia with a daughter and no job.  Jerome (Jay) was Toni's first love, but now he is married with 3 children and a wife who comes from a high society family.  Now that Toni is back home and many years have passed, Will the feelings you have of your first love effect your relationships with friends, family, spouses??  This story is well rounded and all the characters have a specific role, you feel like you are part of the story as you are reading.  Ms. Esdaile has really brought this full circle.  The relationships between parent and child is brought to a test in this story also, Jay grew up with his mother and father, but now that he is married, he wonders about his parents marriage and he wants morale support from his dad, but can't get it.  Toni's parents were happily married and now that her father is remarried, she doesn't see the same spark in him that she did when her mother was alive.  You see in this story how the grass always looks greener on the other side, but when you cross the street and stand in front, you see the weeds and brown patches.  Rivers of the Soul is written with such depth that you find the pages turning for you on there own.  Can't wait to read the sequel to this &quot;Still waters run deep.&quot;  Great work Ms. Esdaile	2002-10-14
US	38518257	R3NQC70C16DT6U	1403305331	123521476	Passion Marks	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Passion?????  More like Control will Mark your life......	I honestly have a hard time rating this story and for many reasons.  One This story shows domestic violence in a same sex relationship, it shows that masculinity in any man can be challenged.  It tells that same sex relationship that are dysfunctional or functional have the same problems that heterosexual relationship can encounter.  Kevin is grieving over his twin brothers death and he has allowed James to just take over his life.  As the story unfolds you find that Kevin has a difficult time facing the truth about situations and waits entirely to long to be honest with people in his life.  Their is always a repercussion behind dealing with Kevin.  This is the first book that I have ever read that shows same sex relationships in this manner.  Lee Hayes has shown you the sensitive side of the same sex relationship, also the romantic settings that you relate to in heterosexual relationship, for instance candles, roses, love notes etc... He definitely shows you a more graphic scenario of the intimate encounters of 2 males.  I can't fairly rate this book on a scale, it depends on your reading pleasure, So I am going to rate it in the middle, a #3.  The Drama, suspense, sex, abuse, devious plots and twist are definitely in this book.  This is definitely more graphic than what I have ever read by E.Lynn Harris... I will tell you also that it is a book that once you start it you will finish it, if for no other reason than for curiosity... and in this story curiosity did kill the cat.	2002-10-09
US	38518257	R1Z91O7HM5Y3H9	1585710598	352389952	Rivers Of The Soul (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	After 20 years of hard reality, the Dreams surface....	Antoinette Wellington and Jerome Henderson and their friends have learned the reality of adulthood and real life circumstances.  They fully understand and are learning from each other that the grass always looks greener across the street, but the reality is once you cross the street, you see all the brown ruined spots and all the weeds.  Antoinette's dream life has not turned out like she has fantasized, and neither has Jeromes or any of her friends or her sister.  This story is a reality check as far as marriage and children and jobs are concerned.  Antoinette's heart has always been some place else.  Jeromes heart has always been some place else, But everyone is caught up in a situation that they feel they are stuck in.  Antoinette has taken the first real step towards happiness but she doesn't really realize it, her decision affects everyone around her, directly and indirectly.  Jerome has made a step in the right direction and he knows it... but being the man he is, he didn't want it that way... Karen started a fire that she couldn't put out and it burned down her house.  The girls club is disbanding and it is really foolish on their part, because as adults, you don't allow the decisions of your other friends to influence what happens in your house hold.  People we are not in high school any longer... look around &quot;kids, jobs, responsibilities&quot;  any way what you are holding on to is not even worth it.  This story shows all the facets of adult responsibilities and situations that Your mother and father hadn't warned you about.  You thought your parents stayed together just because they were so in love, you thought there were no tension and no problems or worrries, that marriage was a real life fantasy.  Oh, now you know better... Toni and Jay realize that regardless of how you tread water day to day (going through the motions...doing what is expected... allowing  years to pass)... The rivers of the soul keep flowing and no matter what you do... you can'tcontrol that.  Leslie Esdaile has written a book that is flowing with such &quot;in your face&quot; reality that the pages of this book automatically turn for you... so you keep on reading...  Excellent writing.	2002-10-07
US	38518257	R3D1YDS5RVI2NB	075969401X	773385414	A Breath Away from Sleep	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fully awake can be a living nightmare....	Edward Nubian James has written a very interesting, fast paced, suspenseful and loving story.  You do not know what will happen next... if you think that you know the next move, you will definitely be surprised.  Now Ebony was very fortunate to have Her mother, Paris, Derrick and definitely Nubian in her life.  They all had to sacrifice and have deep understanding.  Nubian was definitely a Prince.  I think that Ebony will be doing major back ground checks on her employees from now on also.  Now Lyn Dickerson, she is a real &quot;MOTHER&quot; for you.  Tyree and Mitchell Dickerson should have seen more into Lyn, she should not have been able to get away with the things that she was doing, but deep down inside i think that Mitchell did, but either too in love or to content with the way the marriage was that he let her have her way.  Paris is too easily influenced and scared off though and I think that she should have told Tyree what was going on.  This story surely shows that you need to  be careful messing with a womans children.  I look forward to reading more from this author.	2002-09-10
US	38518257	R2VT0RVASAVH1C	1575669145	660941404	Never Again Once More (Soulmates Dissipate)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Your Mind says NEVER again, your heart says ONCE more...	Mary Morrison has done a terrific job on this sequel, you have to read Soulmates Dissipate first though. Jada (bka: Diamond) and Wellington are trully meant to be together, but circumstances that they created have separated them. They have allowed their inability to trully confess their feelings to one another keep them apart. They have found temporary satisfaction in Lawrence and Simone, but after time they can't deny what is really there. Mary Morrison has creatively told this story and you will be surprised at the events that take place. She is very descriptive, so you will be able to picture the scenary as if you were watching a movie... Oh and you will not see the curves or loops in the road coming... You have to read the whole book, if you scan or stop in the middle, you will be disappointing yourself. When it is all said and done, there is one question you will have to ask yourself, Have you found your soulmate? Also ask yourself would your answer be Never again? or Once more please? Also Darryl, Darrius, Maxine, Black diamonds staff, Melanie... all characters you need to get to know.	2002-08-27
US	38518257	RKZ7RNYIP0H3Y	1583143300	622784142	Priceless Gift (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love is a gift when given and recieved and is PRICELESS.	Antonio Gates and Madison Evans.  This story is truelly a Priceless gift that belongs on your bookshelf under &quot;Romance.&quot;  Escaping the Past filled with Heartache and Pain, Both Tony and Madison evolve into prosperous and intelligent upstanding citizens.  Once burned and never wanting to experience the past again, they don't realize that when cupids arrow hits, you have no control.  The setting is like Paradise, a vacation island that we all would love to travel to...for peace and relaxation.  Celeste Norfleet has really painted a vivid picture of beauty and comfort on Crescent Island, that I would love to visit.  Mama Lou is the grandmother we all love, and who has Tonys best interest at heart.  I love the way Madison is portrayed, Laine thought she knew what she was dealing with, but was totally surprised.  I recommend you read this book, because it is a very good read... I don't want to tell too much in this review, because I don't want to give away the story. I will leave you with this... Never assume anything... if you haven't straight out asked the right questions, don't assume you know the answers.  I look forward to seeing Raymond, JT, Dennis, oh these guys  need to be hooked up and I also would like to know if Mrs.Mimi Woods Herington Carter Brown, has up her sleeve and how Senator Richardson will play into her plans.  What about Laine??	2002-07-22
US	38518257	R1776QPVH2HQ8S	0970269919	254234702	She Touched My Soul	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Your Soul will be Touched .....	Naleighna Kai has written a true to life book.  I wouldn't categorize it as strictly a Romance or inspirational novel.  This is one of its kind and is a insight into a real group of peoples lives.  See the story is mainly focused on Mya and Mykal, but all the other characters are very much involved and have a story of their own.  The title is describing Mykals description of Mya.  This is a book that if you are use to scanning, you can't do, this is a book that you have to read every word or you will miss something.  You will feel all types of emotions, You will laugh, cry, scream, concentrate, or meditate, get angry, feel happy.  It has everything, You can feel the Spirit rise.  There can definitely be a sequel.  You will also feel like you actually know these characters and let me tell you at certain times, I wanted to be written into the book, just to deal with Angelique.  Mya is definitely a strong woman to deal with all that she has dealt with in her life time.  A must read.	2002-07-03
US	38518257	R6R7EOPPFNR9W	0758200064	463409264	Soulmates Dissipate	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Playing Games can lead to a lose lose situation...	Diamonds are forever at least for Wellington.  Jada Diamond has what it takes in every aspect, she is successful, beautiful, and can turn the head of any man, but when she falls in love with her soulmate and allows his mothers manipulation to interfere in her relationship, she finds that she is a playing a game for what she thought would be a couple of weeks, but turns out to be the destruction of her relationship.  Melanie has what it takes to but she is part of the phony in crowd, instead of listening to her real mother, she gets too deep with her god mommy and all that phony baloney is going to blow up in her face, she has a plan and follows it, but she will pay for it and almost loses her life in doing so.  Cynthia is so caught up in the what others think of me and looking down her nose at people, that she has forgotten that dirty laundry that has not been washed will end up piling up and just because you can buy new clothes, throwing them on top of dirty ones, will not make the dirty clothes clean.  She doesn't realize that she is playing a dangerous game with her son and she could lose him and her social status, but she is so used to manipulating that she doesn't consider the down fall.  All those dirty little secrets that were done in the dark will come clearly into focus for all to see in the day light.  This is an excellent story and a quick read, once you pick it up you will not put it down.  Oh and the Shower scene, all I will say is if you thought Angela Bassette and Taye Diggs shower scene in How Stella Got her Groove back was steamy, then you ain't seen nothing yet, cause Diamond and Wellington will have you redecorating your home, well at least your bathroom.  I will not tell anymore, except if this  book is not part of your library, then your library is definitely not completed.  I can't wait for this authors next book.	2002-06-24
US	38518257	R14FVG1XC8UNWX	0312978839	908403901	A Family Reunion	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Everyone has one! A Family that is.	Brenda Jackson has captured a real Family.  Grandma Idella and Grandpa Ethan have instilled in the Young Bennett clan some sound morals and ethics.  You have to be strong to be a Bennett.  Even though everyone has to feel some pain, be it a bad marriage or not knowing who your father is or maybe you are Victor Jr, who is a womanizer and a cheat, but hey some things are genetic and we don't choose what genes we get.  Alexia is a ugly duckling as a child, but grows into a swan as a woman and no one can deny her that, but the bruises inflicted as a child have a way of leaving a scar that is carried into adulthood.  Taye is the smart one with an overprotected &quot;BIBLE-TOTING&quot; mother, but watch out when the bird leaves the nest, uh oh some lessons learned in adulthood can be a tough lesson to learn for mother as well as daughter.  (Mothers remember, apple doesn't fall too far from the tree).  Rae'Jean what is the fascination with Dr. Grady?? The Bennett Family is not thrilled to see Rae'jean engaged to a white man, even if he is a doctor,(african americans trip also, when one of their own starts messing outside the culture).  Michael is a Bennett, but at 18 finds out some devastating news, he leaves and marries, and has been estranged from the family for many years, but now a widow raising a 13 year old daughter and no love in his life, it is time for him to rekindle his relationship with his family and his suppressed feelings for a innocent love he had as a child.  Grandpa Henry and Grandpa Ethan, make all the difference in this family and everyone respects and need them in their lives.    Every character in this book has a significant role and you will know them all, the men are just that men, and you either love them or hate them.  The women are just that women, you know how old cuzin is or Auntie and you deal with them.  Your cuzin who thought she was better than you, at least as children that is what you thought.  OH wait, what about the (secrets) oh yaeh, every family has skeletons and the Bennetts are no different.  You will love this story, because you will be able to relate to it, even if you have a small family.  You will also be able to relate to the relationships in the family, the wives, ex-wives, girlfriends, mistresses, the whole clan.  Oh and one last thing, its a little of this and a little of that to keep you turning the page.  When Brandi joins forces with her cousins on her wedding day, she definitely secures her future, and I wanted to show up at the wedding and handle Mr. Lorenzo myself and Oh Jolene didn't know her acrobatics would be viewed by all to see...  (Can't tell you any details, you need to read the book... to learn the real deal)!!  ENJOY.	2002-06-05
US	38518257	RPNBMU56Y6106	1583142541	811118172	The Prodigal Husband (New Spirit)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Love and Faith move mountains .	Tori is a phenomenal woman, she has dealt with the betrayal of her husband and the loss of her child.  Tori has a realistic approach to all the defiance and uncertainties of her marriage and his business partner.  She knows that Sheila is a snake in the grass, in fact everyone does except for Jake.  Jake is the typical blinded husband that just won't see what is right in front of his face.  Nicholas is a true friend to Tori and indiscreetly to Jake, because he had the perfect opportunity to  take total advantage of Tori and didn't.  Tori had to deal with too much where Sheila was concerned and Jake is lucky that her love and Faith and her Prayers had prevailed and guided her, because if she would have had less faith and decided that Prayer wouldn't have helped, Jake would have missed out and their marriage would have been over.  When God is in the Plan though, you can't go wrong and this story shows that.  Jake was blessed immensely with a Praying mother and a Praying wife.  &quot;When the Praises go up, the Blessing do come down&quot; and in Gods plan all weathers fair.	2002-05-26
US	38518257	R17MRX51KIIEWC	1575669218	509017029	Perfect Timing (Dafina)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Is Timing Perfect?  Yes and No.	Mya and Max real friends with real issues.  There are times when in your heart you know you are best friends and you feel the strain of departure in that friendship as you grow older, but real friends do come together and what they have is a real friendship.  Mya and Garrett have the love that most dream of, but when there is someone like Paige around, even that love can be tested.  Max and Christopher share more than their last name, but Christopher dysfunctional childhood hinders only his thoughts, but not his true emotions.  Max shows us that you have to be genuine to be true and she never falters here.  Gabe is the friend that Christopher didn't have in his childhood and I can't wait to hear his story, his family has become Christophers family and that is truelly a blessing.  Ronald is the school Jerk as children and the town jerk in adulthood.  The sex is riveting in these relationships and the woman who can get Christopher to make love without protection has got to be something else, because he refuses to have a lasting relationship with any woman.  This story is true to relationship be it friendship or romance or family.  When your husband messes up sending flowers that represent your years together is romantic, no matter how you look at it.  To marry into a family where the family treats you as a daughter or sister is wonderful.  Daughter n laws who are treated like daughters is the way it should be.  And when your life is about to get turned upside down and your dreams are threatened to be shattered forever, its nice to know that your friends are there for you and some in a way you never expect.  I guess you can say that it is all in the Perfect Timing.	2002-05-25
US	38518257	R1PT2L70DMN21H	044652798X	736836949	Singsation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Let God be the head, regardless of what you do.	Jacquelin Thomas has shown the divine essence of the Lord in Deborah Ann's life.  Deborah Ann is a true Christian, She does not forget at anytime that God is the Head of her life.  Instead of the glamour hollywood life changing her like it does for so many, Deborah now displays her Christianity, to make others see what they are missing.  Triage the rapper, Lavelle the mega star, Phoebe the rising diva, Emerald and Vianca the back up singers who have been bitten by the \\"Lavelle\\" bug and can't see straight.  Deborah Ann is a country girl with a promising future in Hollywood with her velvet voice, and dream of being a star but who also has the conviction of knowing that God has given you the gift to sing, and you can't loose focus of where your blessings come from.  While everyone else has some background in Church, have just lost themselves in the Sex, drugs, hollywood lifestyle, Deborah Ann realizes that she too must change, but not get caught up and lost in the World.  This story shows you that once you become a Follower of the Lord, you can pursue other dreams because He makes them dreams possible for you, but you can't let go and start thinking that you have achieved the dreams on your own, and you always have to remember that The Lord must come first and it is not pure unless it goes through him.  Instead of letting the world change you, you change the world.  This book can be read by the strict Holy Christian and by the child lost to the world.  Jacquelin Thomas has written this with the right balance, to not disrespect those with strong convictions and not bore those with little reservation to the way of the Lord.  Great Job!  Just for your FYI this is the first book I have read by this Author, and I thought it was outstanding.	2002-05-19
US	38518257	R7X01SOE26I7M	0446527920	604788423	Temptation	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ultimate betrayal!!!Envy,Broken,Unforgiving!!	Victoria Christopher Murray!!Outstanding job!!!A sequel is a must!!!  Kyla Blake has it all, her faith in God, a Husband who has faith in God, a beautiful Daughter, a beautiful home, and her best friends who are like sisters.  Oh but you have to watch your sister girls, especially around your man.  Jefferson has it all a beautiful wife, a successful career, a strong belief in God, but oh he is a man, and just a man, Jasmine is the friend who can't see straight, because that green monster is blocking her view (envy) and she sets out to be Kyla and this is the ultimate betrayal.  Now thank goodness for Kyla's parents and her real friend Alexis, because with their help and the power of God, there may be hope after all.  The power of God is strong because Jasmine will also learn that what she has been chasing and seeking is not the key to her happiness and when she finally goes to visit her family after she starts to self destruct, the Power of God is working.  In this story I wanted Kyla to go ghetto on the situation, but she doesn't but a confrontation must take place.  (Victoria I hope you are working on this).  This story is compelling and one you will carry with you every where you go, until you reach the last page, last sentence.  It is worthy for all to read.  If you are a Spiritual person this book is suitable and not out of context to read and if you are not very Spiritual it is enjoyable also.  Victoria Christopher Murray has written this book with such appeal and expertise that if it is not part of your library, you are missing an incredible story.  READ IT, you will enjoy it!!!	2002-05-06
US	38518257	R1TNKWM3V3AB7A	0375504931	825047964	On Our Way to Beautiful: A Family Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Inspiring realization of life.	Yolanda Young has summarized in a matter of chapters growing with the Spirit of the Lord on your side through the reminding of a Great Grandmother, Grandmother, Grandfather.  A mother who has shown the forgiveness that God bestows upon us.  A family that sticks together and has to battle through hardships and broken dreams, but continue to envision a better life.  She has captured the love between brothers and family in general.  Her experience with friends and being bussed to a white school and the lesson learned by the sacrifice of her friend Timmy and his family as they move out of the neighborhood that has been a part of her family for generations to move to a neighborhood with a swimming pool in his own back yard, but when he told her that oneday that the house with the pool would be his, she had not believed.  The teenage pressures of wanting to be part of the in crowd and envious of beauty which is skin deep, and finally realizing thatyou just may have to walk alone oneday, when your dreams are not dreamed by the ones you hang around.  <BR>Too summarize, this story shows the real strength of family love and unity and the Spirit of the Lord is strong.  What woman do you know is shot 5 times by her husband, and still does not talk bad about him even though she is smart enough to leave him.  And after 10 years one of the bullets which is lodged in her body, finally surfaces and on Good Friday is in the doctors office with no anesthesia or stitches has it removed and then the very next day will sit in a restaurant with her daughter and ex husband the one who shot her and have a cordial dinner.  You may say \\"Stupid\\" but read the book because Kitty is not at stupid, she practices that divine forgiveness and is a strong black woman.  The best part of this book is knowing that this is real and it could be your story, it is not make believe.  Yolanda Young has done a great job.	2002-05-02
US	38518257	R1N9ZGNO1OMX53	0743216008	900948972	The Harris Family: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Regardless of the situation: Family is all you have.	RM Johnson did an excellent job on continuiing the story of the Harris Family.  Austin, Marcus, Caleb  three brothers abandoned by their father (read the Harris Men first) and then reunited 25 years later, not wanting to be accepting of their father, they all had issues that they all had to deal with.  Their father dying of cancer has held on for 5 years, because his work was not done and he had to let his sons know that he loved them and he was sorry.  Caleb being the youngest has to form a bond with his father, for the help his father extends to Calebs son and girlfriend, while Caleb is out of commission.  Marcus not wanting to be forgiving and he is so distraught over the way his brothers and father have hurt him over the years, is the least forgiving, but it is so realistic and so beautiful how RM Johnson reunites Marcus and Julius.  Austin the oldest with more tendencies like his father, when he leaves his wife and children, but this story is very well compiled and it is always something going on that you want to continue reading, not a dull moment in this book.  I rate this story 1 rating above the Harris Men, because usually when an author continues a story they loose something, but not here, he adds just the right mixture.  All the characters have a purpose and it is outstanding and good until the very last line on the last page.  (Summary) 3 brothers who have their own lives and their own problems and situations that they have to deal with on their own, but also have to remember that the support and love of family is so very important.  A father who made a mistake but realizes it and tries to make amends, but realizes that he has to deal with all 3 of his sons in a different manner, because he understands their pain.	2002-04-23
US	38518257	R3CXVJ6FMTHTA9	1575669196	975549248	When Twilight Comes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding!!!!SO SO REAL!!!!!!!	Gwynne Forster has really captured the love and turmoils of family, friendship and relationships.  Marge is the Rock and the Glue holding everything together, but a very keen business woman and mother.  Sharon is the typical adoring child, who has to finally realize her own strengths.  Cassie is the overly self centered woman who is her worse enemy.  Drogan is the male child who wants to be the man of the family, but wants benefits that are not worthy of him.  You learn the battles of love between mother and children, between husbands and wives, sister and brothers and the true meaning of friendship. Marge is a mother who knows her children, better than they know themselves and as a mother she allows them to discover that their decisions, may hurt them in the long run.  Kix, Raft, Ross are the men you want to marry- but the women who do don't appreciate them.  Drogan and Imogene has a marriage that if they would have been honest from the beginning they would have realized they were going down a one way street, the wrong way.  Each character in this book has a significant purpose and they contribute such reality and emotions that it is a book you never put down.  From beginning to end this book is definitely a winner.	2002-04-17
US	38518257	R2BYVZC4HFMZQL	0385495056	15867878	Any Way the Wind Blows: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Oh My, So Much Drama...	Well E.Lynn Harris has done it once again, this is a page turner, show stopper.  J.Basil Henderson is feeling the wrath of the Jack Frost wind, oooooh it is so cold.  Bart Dunbar is not to be mistaken for a one night thrill, but proves to be a fool when he teams up with has been, never again, I wish I was &quot;Diva&quot; Ava Middlebrook for the plight of revenge.  Ava is still a vicious, envious, scandalous, &quot;Mother&quot; and I can't wait to see her get whats coming to her (E.Lynn has to flip the script on this heffa).  Now Yancey B. is rising and coming out and you almost want to see her and Basil work things out, but things look promising for her and Desmond, because with Desmond she is not a Diva, or just a fine piece of ---, she is a woman who he wants to deal with on the whole.  This story has been written with great skill and I suggest you read it, I guarantee you that you will not put it down.  Perfectly titled to:  Any Way the Wind Blows.  Applause to E.Lynn, this is a the second part of a Masterpiece.	2002-04-11
US	38518257	R2GTDZY4X8N6P	038549825X	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Who do you love? Who can you trust?	Ava and Yancy are two of a kind.  Basil is the victim here, but he is in rare form, he never will let you get him in a catch 22.  Ava is the best actress in a leading roll and Yancy is the best supporting actress in this story.  You will not believe the women here.  It is too bad that Yancy didn't love Basil enough to turn him around, and it is too bad that Basil was smart enough to know the signs of a performance to do what he has to do to find out what Yancy is really up to.  Now it is sad that he ultimately gets hurt, he's confused enough, but I am so glad that they didn't get to bring the curtain down in their performance, because Basil set the stage.  I am hungry to read the continuation of the saga with \\"Any way the wind blows.\\"  Because Basil is back with his \\"Phine....self\\"  but my goodness all that man, and he is switchin lanes, Have Mercy.. You never know.  Don't let the Physique fool you.  Ladies you better look behind....    (must read!)	2002-04-07
US	38518257	RWKBEPT9NA5A4	0312975880	939021136	Welcome to Leo's	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderfully Romantic: They've done it again....	4 very talented writers have done it again.  They have depicted romance in a whole new light.<br />Rochelle Alers with \\"Second Chance\\" has captured a romantic story with a more mature couple.  Leigh & Scott fall in love and they are over the age of 50.  You know age is number & shouldn't prohibit us from giving or receiving love & Leigh & Scott show us that after your youth has escaped you and your careers are in full bloom, you still want the comforting arms of a special someone to hold you tightly.  Very enjoyable.<br />Donna Hill with  \\"Eye of the Beholder\\"  Jae and Clyde are dynamic and their story tells that you have to get to know a person from inside out, you can't allow stereotypes to persuade your opinion of someone.  Jae a Christian woman with morals and minimal experience with men, and Clyde an upscale entertainment manager with access to whatever type of woman is reevaluating his life and chose in women.  Now when the drama unfolds and this Choir Song Bird and Mr.Talent Seeker finally come together, it is pure sensual music to the ears and heart.  Love conquers all.<br />Brenda Jackson  and \\"Main Agenda\\"  Now its true, Brenda is a good friend of mines, so you would assume that I  can't be judgemental, but you know what... Friendship and admiration have nothing to do with my review on this story.  Brenda has done it again, she has brought together some females with issues and men who are irresistable and determined.  Willow Anderson Daughters Falcoln,Robin,Raven are successful and determined along with beautiful, but they were groomed to be.  They have no time for committed love.  Interest in a man will destroy you.  So stay focused on your dreams and leave love to the weak.  Well that's until  Franco Marcus Renoir, John Augustan, Lincoln Corbain step into the pathway of the Anderson sisters.  Now this story definitely displays  \\"Birds of a feather, flocking together!\\"<br />Francis Ray  with \\"Sweet Temptation\\"  Now this story will have you craving expensive chocolates.  Julia is the type of woman who works hard, wants the best and will achieve on her own.  Chase can be found in the dictionary under MAN= Hardworking, stubborn, play no games, straight to the point.  Now when these 2 stop playing phone tag and meet, it is a pure and delicious meeting.  You never know where your heart will lead you.  Against all odds, they overcome the obstacles of 2 people living in 2 different environments,with different social accolades, but with one realization, that you can conquer all in love.  Julia proves that you can have the strawberries and the chocolate forever.  Chase and Julia don't have to give up their independence to become a unit.   They make falling inlove a very Sweet Temptation.	2002-04-05
US	38518257	R1LQ2AX2H55F2G	0375756590	489907150	The Shirt off His Back: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outstanding! I'd give the shirt off my back also.	This is a real love story and a real insight to a man loving his children unconditionally and never deliberately trying to hurt anyone.  Terry is the type of man that a woman dreams of as a father for a children and as a husband.  Faithful, loving, honest, protective, successful in all areas.  Jackie is the woman that a real man wants to be the mother of his children, and a wife, the kind of girl you can take home to momma.  Roland is a real friend, someone you can lean on.  Parry Brown has captured the true nature of a real man and a real woman and how single parents can bring their families together. They endure the wrath of Catherine the baby mama drama to the max.  They endure the bad past relationship that have them second guessing real love.  I read this story in less than 24 hours, it was a page turner and had you laughing, crying, and rejoicing.  It shows that all women are not mothers, but then all women are not goal diggers.  It also tells that all men are not dogs and that a man or woman should not be judged by the material possessions that they own or the money in the bank, but by their character.<BR>I think this is an excellent story.	2002-03-18
US	38518257	R7T10THC4464O	061810450X	150294181	The Wind Done Gone: A Novel	Books	1	8	14	N	N	Go on Wind, BE Gone	The Wind done Gone is a good way to describe this story.  I am no fan of Gone with the Wind and I know this was supposed to be the untold story, but I couldn't follow this story at all.  Lady, Planter,Cynara, Corinne, whoever else, I could not get straight.  Cinnamon and R, What?  Honestly I think that you have to be a real Gone with the Wind fan to understand the story of The Wind Done Gone.  Maybe a publishing of the original diaries may help, or maybe if Alice Randall would have changed the dialect and made it more of a story form, than a diary setting, I may have understood it better.  If you are a history buff or<br />very curious as to why they fought to publish this story, you may be intrigued by its contents, unfortunately it left too many questions for me, oh and mind you I am not a fan of Gone with the Wind.	2002-03-17
US	38518257	R17KEXJYF5V7D0	0786862297	591957331	I Left My Back Door Open	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Close the door now....	This story has great potential and very realistic situations, but I found it kind of Slow and not moving in the direction I had expected.  I like the realistic views of Skylars daughter and Dee Dee.  We know that in most situations little girls are oftened threatened by the woman who daddy is spending too much time with and when daddy allows the woman to sleep in his bed, watch out.  Also the relationship between Dee Dee and her best friends husband, in too many real life cases, best friends husbands confide in the friend, making relationships difficult and uncomfortable, so I think that April Sinclair did an excellent job portraying this real life situations that alot of mature single men/women will be faced with, dealing with the opposite sex and married friends.	2002-03-17
US	38518257	R13PB69ON4KQC0	1575669161	970451935	Some Sunday	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you don't listen, you may miss out.	Sandy Hutchinson is a true hero in this story.  The devastation behind the death of her husband and the love interest of her brother in law who unmistakably resembles Adrian is a very controversial and understandable relationship.  But Randall is Prince Charming with a typical manly attitude and I rooted for him and Sandy throughout the whole story.  Martha, Britney, Janice and Sandy are friends who experience the trials and tribulations of maintaining a sisterhood, yet individuality, and love interest all at one time.  We sometimes can't balance our friendships and our love relationship and yet have some personal time and privacy.  This story has all the makings of any woman with love in her heart, tragedy in her life, and a need for space.  These sisters in the story have it going on in one aspect and are falling by the wayside on the other.  I think that<BR>Margaret Johnson Hodge did  a good job displaying the relationship between friends, family, in-laws, lovers.  I recommend you read it.	2002-03-17
US	38518257	R3UAHCK7L8U1OC	0380776588	536932460	Night Song	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Chase Jefferson Take me please!!!!!`	Beverly Jenkins has given us a hero, prince charming, provider, a lover, a dream come true with Chase Jefferson.  Any woman and every woman would love to be Cara Lee Henson, if the prize was<BR>Chase Jefferson.  I loved this story because it has everything from a history lesson to romantic rendevous.  This is the novel that you stay up all night to finish and when you read the last page, you are wishing for more more more.  When Jefferson carries Cara into the hotel, against everyones opinion, I knew he was my hero.  This is real solid love that every woman wants out of her prince charming.  Beverly has taken us back to a time when men were men and thats how we liked them.  This is a calgon moment for sure.  If you like some mystery and suspense, this has that also.  EXCELLENT!!!!	2002-03-16
US	38518257	RL17WBLRI64CX	0671025368	758176148	The Coldest Winter Ever	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Oh take it to the streets, no love here.	This is real to life.  If you never lived in the projects and knew the big time drug peddlers and their families, and what it is like to grow up with dirty money, you will after you read this story.  Oh, Sister Souljah is raw and real, she pulls no punches in this story.  Winter is the product of spoiled dirty money and doesn't have good common sense.  She is a swindler to her heart and when the chips all fall, down she tumbles.  Porsche is rolling the same dice in this family lineage and will end up probably worse than Winter.  But this is a real story, the names have just been changed.  I see this as a New York \\"Girls in the Hood\\" in conjunction with Comptons Boyz in the hood.  Where my nails and hair and designer outfit is all that matters,and take off my clothes will get the best man or get me what I want with the man.  Midnight is a character that you rarely see, because you never stick around long enough, to see where he is going or why he is doing what he does, but I was glad that he turned out like he did.  Winters mother is a statistic of women who don't take the blinders off when it comes to their man, they drift around putting all their trust and their life into him and when he falls, they crumble.  Excellent story.  I have not spoken to anyone who didn't like this story.	2002-03-16
US	38518257	R2X0KLO885OIGC	1583141499	596809930	Dream Wedding (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Love is the best love.	Jimmy and Missy will take you back to your first love.  What if you were to meet your first love again and you are planning to marry someone else.  Missy and Jimmy were meant to be and when you are destined to be with someone, you can't fight it or hide it.  I fell in love with Jimmy and Walter I never knew why Missy even considered marrying him.  Alice Wootson has captured the real essence of true love.	2002-03-16
US	38518257	R38X2GZAFA6IGY	0312272995	634013686	Rhythms: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Compelling story line...	Donna Hill has done it again. This is a real to life story. Cora and David portray a real love story. This is all about forgiveness and honesty. Parris is a winner in this story, but I wish that Emma would have made a better choice and better decisions concerning Parris and Cora. This is one story that everyone needs to read, really enjoyable. This book would make a great movie, as long as they don't try to alter it for t.v.	2002-03-16
US	38518257	R1YPVG0GLZGVL9	0345435087	451384900	Hot Johnny (and the Women Who Loved Him)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Too many characters...	This is one of the worst stories, I have tried to read this year.  I was unable to finish this book.  It was too many characters and not a story line to follow.  Everyone woman is telling her story and I just couldn't get into it.	2002-03-15
US	38518257	R3PSSKQYP5KA4A	0684841436	919136449	Child of God: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	What? Why? Oh no!!!	This style of writing is not Lolita.  I didn't particularly care for this story line and I thought that she could have taken this in another direction.  But, then again the actual story line was well put together.  I just didn't care for it, I like her first 2 books better.  Lolita is an excellent author and I figured that she doesn't want to get stuck writing one way.  I just didn't care for the story line.	2002-03-15
US	38518257	R18M2HINJVEXMP	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mothers know their children	As mothers you usually know your children and Viola knows her husband and her children.  This story is realistic and it displays the love that a woman has for her children and her husband.  Viola in this story is Big Mama and the glue to the family.  But she endures a lot, just like mothers do.	2002-03-13
US	38518257	R1MJ50QM7J8A16	0375757775	638709937	Black Coffee (Strivers Row)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Captured the true essence	Tracy Price Thompson captured the true essence of female military personnel.  Women in the military have a hard and long way to go.  The personal life vs the military life is always at battle and the superior women and males are always looking to bring you down.  She captured the true life syndromes in a fictional story that is captivating and true to form.  Civillians can get a broader understanding and military personnel can truelly relate.  Tracy Price-Thompson has done an excellent job on piecing this story together and it is a must read.  I look forward to her next book.	2002-03-13
US	38518257	R3LCQSGXWB5MX2	038097679X	39681288	West of Rehoboth: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Captivating	This story will have you turning the pages... You want to find out who is Rufus and why is Rufus the way he is.  It also takes you to a time where vacations were for work and for relaxation.  If you haven't read anything by: Alexs D. Pate, then I suggest start here.  This author needs to be promoted more, has a keen eyesight and will have you believing that you are in Rehoboth.	2002-03-13
US	38518257	R8AB1DPG58GDH	0446527998	734163607	Church Folk	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Take it to the Alter...	Church folk is a book for all, regardless of what church you go to.  Essie is a for real young Pastors wife and Theophilus is a man of God and a husband in all aspects.  This is a must read.  Pastors and First Ladies are also Husbands and wives, and they live normal lives.	2002-03-13
US	38518257	R3PUH7G1KH7UQA	0446527998	734163607	Church Folk	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Eye Opener..	Michele Andrea Bowen, goes behind the scenes to inform all of us, what is really going on.  It is a must read for all readers.  If you are on a Spiritual level where most novels offend you, this novel is not offensive.  This is true to fact.  You will really enjoy it, once you pick it up, you will not put it down.  Please Read it and contact Michele Andrea Bowen and give her your views.  I am very confident that you will enjoy Church Folk.	2002-03-12
