US	38548391	R2030OHTGD33QY	0060558288	261484893	God's Politics: Why the Right Gets It Wrong and the Left Doesn't Get It	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Worth reading, but the book is in desperate need of editing	One can summarize Wallis' basic argument in a couple of sentences:  there is a large group of Americans whose values are determined by their religious faith, but they are not necessarily right-wing Republicans.  The Left is unneccessarily gun-shy about public policy being driven by religious beliefs, and the Right incorrectly assumes that by pandering to the more extreme elements of evangelical Christianity, it can count on the automatic support of virtually all evangelicals.  That is Jim Wallis' book in a nutshell.  Because it may open the eyes of thoughtful individuals on both sides of the aisle, I give it four stars, but with the caution that this is a horribly repetitive book that reminds me more of a Power-Point presentation than a coherently organized book.  Even if you find yourself in agreement with Wallis, you will find yourself getting fed up with the endless illustrations of the same point.<br /><br />I also feel that Wallis, while on fairly solid ground with domestic issues, is very much out of his element when it comes to foreign policy.  He never satisfactorily addresses exactly what a \\"just war\\" might be, only that our Iraq-Afghanistan adventures did not meet the criteria for a \\"just war.\\"  He never truly addresses the sad reality that national interests will always trump spiritually driven policy.<br /><br />Nonetheless, there are thoughtful people on both sides of the national debate who can learn what Wallis writes if they have the patience to wade through the book.  The Democrats in particular are beginning understand that a social position is no less valid if it is arrived at by the means of religious faith.  Whether or not the Republicans can learn lessons from Wallis' arguments remains to be seen.  Judging from some of the reviews, too many people seem prepared to write Wallis off as not being a \\"true Christian\\" rather than consider his arguments seriously.  They ignore him and what he represents at their peril.	2005-08-21
US	38548391	R1JPJBUCLIFZYD	1574888625	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West Is Losing the War on Terror	Books	4	16	20	N	N	This book continues to be relevant --- unfortunately	Since the 2004 publication of this book, the not particularly anonymous author has been formally revealed as former CIA analyst Michael Scheuer, no longer with the CIA.  One would think that in the rapidly changing world of foreign affairs, enough things would have changed enough to have rendered this book obsolete.  Unfortunately, such is not the case.  In fact, Scheuer's predictions regarding Afghanistan (his true area of expertise) seem to be more & more accurate with each passing day.<br /><br />Nothing Scheuer says is particularly new, although he has done a better job than most at getting the general public to pay attention to his arguments.  Without going into too much detail (other reviewers have dissected this book quite nicely), a fair synopsis would be as follows:<br /><br />Policy planners in the US continue to misinterpret (or possibly misrepresent) what bin Laden's clearly stated objectives are.  As a result, assuming that the US is indeed fighting a war against terror, it is fighting the wrong war in the wrong place, wasting resources and eroding public support.  Additionally, policy planners have failed to educate the public properly as to the costs of a true, full-scale war, resulting in a \\"have one's cake & eat it too\\" mentality.  He has clearly hit the bull's eye here, as the public now grows disenchanted with a war that was packaged by its planners as being relatively easy, quick, and inexpensive.<br /><br />The fact that reviewers castigate Scheuer as a traitor for daring to say that bin Laden is a Muslim patriot with well-defined goals, as opposed to a crazy, bomb-lobbing fanatic, does more to reinforce Scheuer's arguments than to refute them, as he argues that as long as we regard bin Laden and al-Qaida as mere nutjob terrorists randomly lashing out in violence with no coherent strategy, we will fail to understand the true nature of our enemy, and will have no hope of victory.<br /><br />This is not to say that this book is not without its flaws.  He has a tendency to make Muslim terrorists (and Islam in general) much more monolithic than it really is.  He underplays traditional tribal & ethnic loyalties, particularly in Afghanistan.  There is a good reason that the Muslim world has never been truly unified, and he should know this.  He also seems to over-emphasize the importance to the Muslim world of Afghanistan as an \\"Islamic State.\\"  Iran has been a theocracy for quite some time, but difference has it made.  No Islamic leader has assumed the position in the Arab world that Nassar occupied, and the idea that such a leader would come from remote, non-Arab Afghanistan strikes me as unrealistic.<br /><br />Scheuer's continual comparisons to the US Civil War are annoying, and historically inaccurate.  The CSA rarely fought a guerilla-style war, although it might have been a better strategy than conventional warfare.  The Union armies were facing a traditional army that used traditional military strategy.  How is this similar?  A better comparison would have been what the British faced when trying to defeat the American colonists, whose armies did their best to avoid fighting pitched battles.  Other apt historical parallels would also include the Boer War, Napoleon's Peninsula & Russian campaigns, or the campaigns to defeat Pancho Villa or von Lettow-Vorbeck.  Evidently, Scheuer is a Civil War buff, because he ignores much more appropriate historical comparisons.<br /><br />Some reviewers are aghast that Scheuer seems to advocate cranking up the war effort to an even higher level, while simultaneously criticizing the war effort.  I don't believe this is a particularly accurate reading of his argument, which is best framed on page 85.  Scheuer argues that the best strategy would be to change US foreign policy that is harmful to American interests (as Scheuer defines it).  He does not believe that such changes will come about.  \\"A policy status quo, in essence, leaves America no choice but a war of annihilation.\\"  I believe he means that in the most literal sense, that the US will have to adopt an all-stops-pulled-out policy of total war with its attendant casualties and destruction.  Interestingly, he does not speculate if the US would have to kill every last Muslim before this war could be won.  I don't believe he endorses this policy, but he says that the refusal by the US to change its foreign policy leaves few other options.<br /><br />I can only assume that policy makers have read this book.  Are the powers that be taking Scheuer's arguments to heart?  It is hard to say.  Evidently the power brokers of the US don't like having large helpings of Realpolitik crammed down their throats, but guess what?  The real world doesn't always behave the way we would like to believe it behaves.  That is what Scheuer has been trying to tell us all along.of annihilation.\\"  I believe he means that in the most literal sense, that the US will have to adopt an all-stops-pulled-out policy of total war with its attendant casualties and destruction.  Interestingly, he does not speculate if the US would have to kill every last Muslim before this war could be won.  I don't believe he endorses this policy, but he says that the refusal by the US to change its foreign policy leaves few other options. <br /> <br />I can only assume that policy makers have read this book.  Are the powers that be taking Scheuer's arguments to heart?  It is hard to say.  Evidently the power brokers of the US don't like having large helpings of Realpolitik crammed down their throats, but guess what?  The real world doesn't always behave the way we would like to believe it behaves.  That is what Scheuer has been trying to tell us all along.	2005-07-05
US	38548391	R1A07700POHP4M	0486204251	800926861	Antonio Stradivari: His Life and Work (1644-1737)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It remains the definitive text a century later	The style may seem quaint, but if you have spent any time at all reading scholarly works from this time period, you will find that Hill's prose is far from unreadable.  By and large, I continue to find Hill's style to be readily approachable after 3 decades worth of repeated readings.<br /><br />In any case, the prose is not what makes this work invaluable.  Like another reviewer stated, you cannot do any study of Stradivari instruments without first consulting Hill, and Hill remains the foundation of all scholarly work concerning Stradivari, even a century later.  While not exactly for laymen, nonetheless this book is relatively accessible to those who have only a passing knowledge in stringed instruments.  For those more expert, Hill remains the essential starting point.  If you have a young violinist in your family, I would recommend this book as a gift.  I still have my decades-old book, received one Christmas long long ago, and I am glad that I got it.	2005-06-20
US	38548391	R1VDY8IXYETK70	0811814572	955877585	No Cats Allowed	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very entertaining, for both kids and adults	Anyone who has been adopted by a stray cat can relate to Mr. Foster as he tries to deal with a feline determined not to be a stray anymore.  Slowly but surely, the cat imbeds himself in the hotel, and before you know, it's 7 years later and the cat has become a hotel institution.  The cat's self-assuredness reminds me of many our own pets, past and present.  It is always what has made cats so fascinating, and that characteristic is captured perfectly here.<br /><br />The story is well-constructed & well-paced, and the illustrations are a lot of fun.  The fight between the cat & the raccoon is classic, and not to be missed.  Even if you don't have kids, you may very well find yourself enjoying this.	2005-06-13
US	38548391	R1DAO6Y4ISZNPD	0743245911	734522183	Luckiest Man: The Life and Death of Lou Gehrig	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well-framed account of a life derailed	Gehrig has reached such iconic status in baseball lore that for biographers he has become something like George Washington or Robert E. Lee --- almost impossible to write about without slipping into hagiography.  I only reluctantly picked up this book because I was afraid that I would have to endure more hero-worship.  Happily, this was not the case --- Eig has presented a well-balanced, well-written account.<br /><br />Eig's writing style struck me at first as being a little term-paperish, but by and large I found this to be easy to read.  He is especially good at constructing the book in such a way that there is little foreshadowing of the onset of Gehrig's ALS...he really captures the feeling of a life that is moving along smoothly, business as usual, only to be suddenly derailed by an unexplainable ailment that changes as priorities.  This was indeed the best feature of the book.<br /><br />Eig also --- thankfully --- avoids the typical traps of a sports biography.  While he does discuss a number of Gehrig's on-field performances in some detail, his book does not simply read like an extended sports column.  He has also done much better research into primary sources than a lot of sports biographers, and does cite his sources conscientously.  He does not make Gehrig into a saint, nor does he treat Eleanor Gehrig with kid gloves.  The reader gets to see Gehrig as a relatively colorless baseball star (if he had not died young, I think we would remember him today much as we remember Rogers Hornsby), but a man with driving ambition both on & off the field.  Eleanor Gehrig, while not coming off as a gold-digger, nonetheless is portrayed as a wife who recognized her husband's unexploited potential and who worked hard to make her husband more marketable as a star athlete.  The marriage was not a perfect one, and Eig does not try to over-romanticize it.<br /><br />Eig is not trying to be controversial, nor is he trying put Gehrig up on a pedestal.  Instead, he has written a well-crafted biography which will probably stand as the definitive account of Gehrig's life for quite some time to come.ritten a well-crafted biography which will probably stand as the definitive account of Gehrig's life for quite some time to come.	2005-06-09
US	38548391	R38I9G7VMEL0XF	0805071458	391582870	Arc of Justice: A Saga of Race, Civil Rights, and Murder in the Jazz Age	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Sweeping story, expertly told	This book reminded me a lot of \\"Big Trouble,\\" with its dramatic account of a trial with a huge cast of characters.  Boyle does an excellent job of weaving together numerous storylines, and indeed there the storylines are numerous.  Almost everyone involved in the trial had different agenda, and these agenda did not necessarily always converge.<br /><br />On its surface, the question at hand was \\"does a person have the right to defend his own property against a lawless mob?\\"  beneath the surface, there was also taking place a struggle for political power within the hierarchy of Detroit, as well as a struggle within the nascient civil rights movement.  The Ku Klux Klan was looking to expand its influence in the urban North, and the NAACP was struggling to get itself on solid financial footing & establish itself as a legitimate force for social change.  Additionally, there was the question of stemming the tide of neighborhood segregation, not to mention controlling the rise of mob violence, which concerned many people who weren't necessarily supporters of civil rights.<br /><br />The actual trials are a relatively small part of the book.  Boyle, being a good historian, is looking at the bigger picture of this trial's lasting impact & the collision of opposing forces of history.  He points out that the result of the trial, on the surface a victory for Dr. Sweet, was in many ways a<br /><br />Pyrrhic victory, both in a personal sense as well as culturally.  The very ambitious Dr. Sweet saw his personal & professional life unravel in the years following the trial, and Boyle observes that the neighborhoods of Detroit remain among the most segregated in the nation.<br /><br />However, it is almost impossible to imagine my neighbors organizing themselves into a mob with the purpose of driving me, or anyone else, out of the neighborhood under the threat of injury or death.  That much at least has been achieved.  That such mob violence was once commonplace is evidence that this forgotten trial did make a difference to us all, and Boyle is to be commended for bringing it back to life for us.this forgotten trial did make a difference to us all, and Boyle is to be commended for bringing it back to life for us. <br /> <br />	2005-06-09
US	38548391	R1CM1QDSW12SX3	0140558128	86417645	The Turtle and the Moon (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Utterly enchanting	Wonderful artwork, a simple flowing narrative, and a charming little turtle that you cannot help but like and sympathize with, makes this book one of the finest childrens' books I have come across in quite some time.  The theme of loneliness & the solace of companionship should warm the heart of anyone who reads this.	2005-05-27
US	38548391	R354H2PDDOVWI8	0618001999	419114277	Sir Vidia's Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Fascinating, but recommended with some reservations	I have never been a Naipaul fan.  While he is unarguably one of the finest 20th century writers in the English language, his books nonetheless have always left me cold.  He seemed so cantankerous & generally misanthropic, ready to pass scathing judgement at the drop of the hat & sometimes with precious little reflection.  With this in mind, I rather enjoyed great portions of Theroux' assault on his former friend, as it seemed to comfirm everything I had long guessed to be true about Naipaul.  Also, the narrative flows along quite nicely, making the book easy to read.  Some reviewers have scored Theroux for not having the necessary literary gifts to make this book work, and that he should stick to his travel books.  I did not find this to be the case.<br /><br />However, when all is said and done, I have a hard time seeing Paul Theroux as the victim here.  Innumerable instances of Naipaul being the supreme jerk are recounted for the reader, and yet Theroux' loyalty to his friend never seems to have been seriously challenged.  Occasionally, Theroux will describe how he \\"winced\\" at his friend's appalling behavior.  How can this be?  What motivates a man to endure a friend's sometimes horrible treatment of the people around him...people who often did not deserve the disrepect they got from Naipaul?<br /><br />Evidently, Theroux was willing to tolerate Naipaul's behavior and remain his friend for 30 years because the man is a brilliant writer, or at least this is what he tells us.  I cannot help but suspect that Theroux, at the time, saw nothing wrong with this behavior (probably because Theroux himself is renowned for his own rather difficult nature) until, finally, he was on the receiving end of it.  Then, so it would appear, all the unsavory aspects of Naipaul's personality suddenly snapped into focus, after three decades of exposure.  Hmmmm, I cannot say that I was convinced by Theroux' description of that particular epiphany.<br /><br />However, I think Theroux' descriptions of his former friend largely hit the mark, and there is something that is just fun about poison-pen works.  Just remember that the while Theroux may have some legitimate scores to settle, he was willing to look past those scores for an awfully long time because it served his own interests.x' descriptions of his former friend largely hit the mark, and there is something that is just fun about poison-pen works.  Just remember that the while Theroux may have some legitimate scores to settle, he was willing to look past those scores for an awfully long time because it served his own interests.	2005-05-05
US	38548391	R1BC310W0IMYC	0060096861	221324216	American Taboo: A Murder in the Peace Corps	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Worth reading despite the terrible writing style	The 3 stars is only because the story is so fascinating and appalling.  The writing is dreadful; Weiss alternates between unreadable run-on sentences and sentence fragments, as though he were writing this book by jotting down whatever odd tidbits happened to pop into his head at the moment.  I really have to wonder to what depths today's writers (and editors, who are equally guilty here) have sunk, if writing this disjointed can make it to press.<br /><br />Also, I found myself thinking that this might have been better suited for an extended magazine article, rather than a book.  Weiss seems to have trouble at times sustaining his narrative, and the book seems frequently to wander around in a fog.  He certainly doesn't bring the book to a satisfactory conclusion; when reading Weiss' speculations on the sanity, or lack thereof, of Dennis Priven, I was unconvinced by his arguments and in fact felt like I knew no more after I finished the book.<br /><br />Which brings me to my biggest criticism here: why did Weiss choose to focus on the question of \\"how did he get away with it?\\" rather than the far more troubling question of \\"why did the Peace Corps move heaven & earth to protect a murderer, and then cover it up?\\"  Certainly Weiss discusses the Peace Corps question, but not thoroughly, and certainly it is not the question on which he is primarily focused.  I suspect part of this stems from Weiss' preference of doing his research through interviews (not unusual for a journalist) rather than wading through assorted archives looking for documents.  If Weiss had been a trained historian rather than a journalist, I cannot help but suspect that he would have gone to the archives first, and then filled in the gaps with subsequent interviews.  Sadly, this seems not to have happened, and the book suffers for it.<br /><br />Because Weiss could not choose a single question upon which to focus, he fails to provide satisfactory answers for either question.  He has probably blown it as far this subject is concerned; I doubt that another researcher will be able to revisit the Gardner murder at some future date and hope to get the cooperation he/she will need.<br /><br />Thus, we are left with this book as the only one available on a subject very much worth reading about, so good luck readers.  I just wish Weiss could have done a better job on this.concerned; I doubt that another researcher will be able to revisit the Gardner murder at some future date and hope to get the cooperation he/she will need.    Thus, we are left with this book as the only one available on a subject very much worth reading about, so good luck readers.  I just wish Weiss could have done a better job on this.	2005-04-17
US	38548391	R1JIL1JV3WTOSV	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	2	19	31	N	N	Leapin' Lizards!  This is one dumb bunch of reptiles!	I cannot make up my mind if David Icke is delusional or a marketing genius of the first order.  I am inclined to think that he is delusional based on his horrible (albeit earnest) style of writing, which reminds me of some of the hand-scribbled screeds that have occasionally been handed to me over the years by assorted nut-jobs standing on street corners.  However, this writing style could simply be calculated for effect.<br /><br />In any case, this is pretty garden-variety conspiracy stuff.  Icke says pretty much the same thing about the royal bloodlines as does \\"Sir\\" Laurence Gardner, except that Gardner says all of the royals are descendants of Jesus Christ, and Icke says they are all baby-munching, shape-shifting reptiles (incidentally, on his website, Icke speculates that Gardner is also reptilian --- I love it when conspiracists go after each other).<br /><br />Of course, in the grand conspiracy tradition of the Illuminati, Freemasons, Knights Templar, Elders of Zion, blah blah blah, it appears that EVERY DAMN THING that has ever happened in this world is interconnected, the result of the conspiracy & its attendant coverups.  Nothing random ever happens, apparently, but is all part of a magnificent orchestration by the cunning reptiles.<br /><br />Which begs the question:  if these reptiles are so adept at pulling the wool over our collective eyes, how is it that they can be so damned incompetent all of the time?  The overwhelming majority of the European royal families has lost its power, and some of these families have slid into virtual obscurity, noted only by royal-watching websites these days.  The British royals managed to lose, in turn, its French possessions, one global empire and then another.  George W. Bush managed to run three businesses into the ground and never could assemble a bullpen for the Texas Rangers that was worth a damn.  Give me a break; I expect my reptilian overlords to be a little smarter than this.<br /><br />There is always the possibility that Icke is actually a frontman for a conspiracy even more deeply concealed than all of these lizards.  Perhaps small white rabbits are actually running everything, and they want to mis-direct our attention to the lizards instead.  Those bunnies are cunning little bastards --- who knows, it might be true!<br /><br />In any case, while one might find some amusement in this over-the-top screed (hence the two stars), the writing ranges from mediocre to downright sloppy, and detracts from the book's overall entertainment value.  If you feel the need to plow your way through this, check the library first, on the offchance that it has a copy.  One shouldn't be required to spend money on this mishmash.ys the possibility that Icke is actually a frontman for a conspiracy even more deeply concealed than all of these lizards.  Perhaps small white rabbits are actually running everything, and they want to mis-direct our attention to the lizards instead.  Those bunnies are cunning little bastards --- who knows, it might be true! <br /> <br />In any case, while one might find some amusement in this over-the-top screed (hence the two stars), the writing ranges from mediocre to downright sloppy, and detracts from the book's overall entertainment value.  If you feel the need to plow your way through this, check the library first, on the offchance that it has a copy.  One shouldn't be required to spend money on this mishmash.	2005-04-12
US	38548391	R3MALI45BESI7D	0763620351	155022316	Splash! (Board Book Reprints)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect your elephant trumpet & be a hero to your kid	This is easily one of Helen's top three favorites, hands down.  She loves the elephants and all of the animals splashing around in the water after the baby saves the day.  A parent that can produce a credible elephant trumpet can score some major points with the kids when this book is being read.	2005-03-21
US	38548391	R2MVMZUQP3PM8O	030710222X	564850373	The Taxi That Hurried (Family Storytime)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	3 stars only because it annoyed my mother so much	My mom absolutely hated this book, which is probably why my brothers and I requested that she read it so often.  She found the rude lady (\\"We're ten minutes late and the train won't wait!\\" my mother would snarl) to be beyond contempt and rendition of the lady's voice more than showed it.  On top of it, what exactly is the message here?  Drive like a maniac, endanger lives, and somehow you will be seen as a hero?  No thank you.  My mom managed to \\"lose\\" this book not too long after we got it, and I cannot say that we particularly missed it once it was gone.  Suffice it to say, I won't be reading it to my own children anytime soon.  Jerk, whiz, indeed.	2005-03-21
US	38548391	R26H5VGAHMV8CZ	0590480871	563139109	David Goes To School	Books	3	4	14	N	N	Annoying character & creepy artwork ruined this for me	Is it just me, or does this kid remind anyone of the inbred banjo-playing kid from the movie \\"Deliverance?\\"  I tend to be pretty open-minded with the quality of illustrations in kids' books, but this artwork simply creeped me out from the beginning, and it all went downhill from there.  It doesn't help that David is a disobedient brat a good portion of the time.  All in all, I am glad that we only checked this book out from the library and didn't buy it.  Unfortunately, I can't get the banjo-pickin' out of my head.  Whar you goin', city boy?	2005-03-21
US	38548391	R30UW86ADVJ34Q	1594200335	844238166	The United States of Europe: The New Superpower and the End of American Supremacy	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Worthwhile subject, somewhat shallow analysis; 3 1/2 stars	While I found this to be an entertaining read, I felt like I was reading more of an extedended magazine article rather than a book.  Looking for citations and statistics?  Forget it; what one will find here is heavily anecdotal in nature.  While Reid's observations are often quite valid, they are the observations of a journalist rather than those of a historian or foreign policy expert, and he misses the target as often as he hits it.<br /><br />Reid seems so positively giddy about the success so far of the EU that he seems willing to overlook the fact that the EU's future is not nearly as rosy as it might appear, for a variety of reasons.  For example, everyone acknowledges that Europe is facing a population crunch in the not-too-distant future, and that various EU member nations will be become increasingly dependent on immigrant labor.  There are many attendant problems that Europe will have to address, yet Reid confines his remarks about the shrinking population to a couple of transitional paragraphs.  This is not a minor problem for Europe, and not just for simple economic reasons; it also raises the spectre of right-wing xenophobic movements actually coming to power, movements whose exclusive, nationalistic tendencies very much run counter to the more liberal, inclusive nature of the EU.  To assume, as Reid does, that the EU has a long, prosperous future in front of it, and to dismiss the \\"Euroskeptics\\" as hopelessly retrograde dwellers of the political backwaters, is to ignore real trends of significance within Europe.<br /><br />Also, what about China and India?  These two economic behemoths will pose the same threats to the EU as they do to the United States.  If the EU economy falters from these external assaults, will the love-affair with the Euro continue unabated, and for the matter, will Reid's much-vaunted \\"Generation E\\" continue to be as supportive of the EU ideal as Reid believes them to be?  I suspect that the support of the EU and the Euro exists because it is convenient and beneficial.  Will it continue if the Euro heads south?  Don't look for any answers from Reid; he seems to base most of his book on the assumption that the Euro and the EU economy as a whole promises only to get stronger.<br /><br />This is not to say that Reid does not address some important issues.  He is very much correct that Americans in general seem blissfully unaware of how strong the EU has become, and that in general the EU is more dominant on the global economic stage than is the US.  If one wants to get a good idea of just a what a powerful, well-oiled economic machine the EU has become, one could do much worse than this book, which might prompt the novice reader to seek out additional information from other sources.  However, if one is hoping for a more nuts-and-bolts approach, this book by itself will prove to be a disappointment.<br /><br />UPDATE (6-1-05):  Now that the proposed EU Constitution has been dealt a crushing blow by the voters of both France & the Netherlands, one has to give some serious reconsideration to the rosy future Reid has predicted for the EU.  This one event has largely rendered Reid's book hopelessly obsolete, and since this new Constitution was seen a crucial to the continued positive development of the EU, Reid would be well-advised to reconsider a number of his contentions.venient and beneficial.  Will it continue if the Euro heads south?  Don't look for any answers from Reid; he seems to base most of his book on the assumption that the Euro and the EU economy as a whole promises only to get stronger.    This is not to say that Reid does not address some important issues.  He is very much correct that Americans in general seem blissfully unaware of how strong the EU has become, and that in general the EU is more dominant on the global economic stage than is the US.  If one wants to get a good idea of just a what a powerful, well-oiled economic machine the EU has become, one could do much worse than this book, which might prompt the novice reader to seek out additional information from other sources.  However, if one is hoping for a more nuts-and-bolts approach, this book by itself will prove to be a disappointment.      UPDATE (6-1-05):  Now that the proposed EU Constitution has been dealt a crushing blow by the voters of both France & the Netherlands, one has to give some serious reconsideration to the rosy future Reid has predicted for the EU.  This one event has largely rendered Reid's book hopelessly obsolete, and since this new Constitution was seen a crucial to the continued positive development of the EU, Reid would be well-advised to reconsider a number of his contentions.	2005-03-17
US	38548391	R2QRTCMMJRS9ZB	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	2	22	40	N	N	Lots of ego, precious little else	I got tired of this guy on TV long ago, as his reports seem to be more about John Stossel than whatever topic he may be addressing.  Never does he let an opportunity pass by where he can tell you what an in-your-face bad-ass he is.  One is left with the distinct impression that the whole of the nation would go straight to Hell in a handbasket if not for the tireless, unstinting efforts of the heroic John Stossel.  This egotism run amok serves to diminish anything valid that he might have to say.<br /><br />As it is, his philosophical ramblings should annoy thoughtful libertarians more than liberals, as he does a disservice to the libertarian philosophy more than anything else.  His rationale can be charitably described as muddy and unsupported by any citations, as many other reviewers have noted.  There are points where his unalloyed faith in the limitless virtues of an unregulated free market seems to border on delusion.  Really John, when have we ever had anything in this country that began to approach a truly free market?  Such beliefs as these amount to nothing more than blind faith and make Stossel as credible as --- oh I don't know, Breatharians?  Take your pick; really, the bulk of his book is so anectdotal in nature that one has to have blind faith in John Stossel's skills as a researcher & reporter to give his arguments the credence he desires.<br /><br />Of course, there is the possibility that Stossel is simply stroking his own ego and making a little cash along the way.  That is what it always felt like on his TV segments.  He always seemed a little too self-aggrandizing, no matter on what side of the aisle he was sitting.	2005-03-10
US	38548391	R3UDAQWX2RNI4G	0590476351	191984645	My Cats Nick And Nora	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book cracks me up	Anyone who has children and cats should easily relate to the tribulations of Nick and Nora, two much put-upon felines who somehow are able endure regular humiliation at the hands of two well-intentioned little girls who, fortunately, are oblivious to the frayed nerves of their furry playmates.  My daughter loves the great pictures of the cats and their expressions of exasperation and disgust.  It is not at all unusual to see the same expressions on our own persecuted kitties, sometimes only minutes later, as a result of Helen's carryings on.  This book never fails to bring a smile to my face.	2005-03-10
US	38548391	RLUEKT9TE4MB8	0060588284	836673154	Kitten's First Full Moon	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Some of the best artwork I have ever seen in a kid's book	Our 18-month-old daughter isn't particularly enthralled by the story yet, but I am hardly surprised by that; it is a little beyond her age.  It is a well-crafted story told in a straightforward manner, and I expect that in time she will enjoy this book for that reason.  For now, she finds the artwork to be very interesting, no doubt because we have 5 cats of our own.  I find myself in total agreement with Helen here; this is some of the best artwork I have ever come across in a childrens' book, so much so that I wouldn't hesitate to frame the drawings and hang them in a prominent space on my walls.  This is really well-done.  Even if it were a lousy story, I would enjoy looking at the artwork.  As it is, both the story and artwork are superb!	2005-02-26
US	38548391	RCKW6GNC4GL1T	039587744X	950486766	Chancellorsville	Books	5	46	52	N	N	Definitive account of the battle that dispells many myths	Too often, the battle of Chancellorsville has been viewed as merely another of a series of humiliating defeats for the Army of the Potomac at the hands of RE Lee, and that the battle was further evidence of Lee's tactical genius triumphing over the bumbling leadership of his Union counterparts.  Certainly Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia came to view it as such, and that misperception in no small measure contributed Lee's defeat two months later at Gettysburg.<br /><br />What Stephen Sears presents is a considerably different picture, that of a battle which, although a tactical Confederate victory, represented more of a draw in the larger operational sense.  Far from being an uncertain leader in the mold of McClellan or Burnside, Joe Hooker is shown by Sears as a leader who has a very clear idea of what his operational objectives, and his battle plan for Chancellorsville cannot fail to impress.  Certainly he completely out-generalled Lee, successfully executing an elaborate maneuver which landed the Union army in the rear of the unsuspecting Lee.  Lee's unconventional division of his forces is the one element of Chancellorsville that one always hears about, but what is often not emphasized is that Lee was forced to these desperate measures by Hooker's superior maneuvers.<br /><br />Once Jackson begins his massive flanking maneuver, Sears really hits his stride as a writer.  The reader is left awestruck at Jackson's skill as a corps commander.  Even though the wisdom of this flanking maneuver certainly is open to debate, nevertheless Jackson was able to move a massive number of men a great number of miles largely undetected, and that is no minor accomplishment.  Sears then describes the rout and destruction of the XI Corps that is both vivid and coherent.  A scene such as that cannot be easy to describe so as to be followed by the reader, but Sears is more than equal to the challenge.<br /><br />I remember how Chancellorsville was described in Ken Burns' celebrated (but at times flawed) documentary --- \\"the defeat was total.\\"  Well --- not exactly.  Certainly the XI Corps was shattered, but by and large the Army of the Potomac gave as good as it took, and possibly could have taken the day had a counter-offensive been launched.  Even with the element of surprise, Jackson's corps did not succeed in shattering Hooker's flank.  How it came to be that Hooker, despite a significant advantage in numbers and superior maneuvering, failed to achieve his objectives is where Sears devotes the bulk of his energies and where is book is most valuable.<br /><br />Some reviewers have faulted Sears for being nothing more than an apologist for Hooker, making excuses for Hooker's numerous blunders.  Sears definitely does not have the scorn for Hooker that he has acquired for McClellan.  While he obviously feels that Hooker's reputation has suffered unfairly, I don't know if I would call Sears an apologist.  He makes it clear where the fault lies at Chancellorsville:  Howard's complete negligence in fortifying his positions, even though he had an entire day in which to do it;  Stoneman's utter failure to make even a dent in Lee's supply lines, despite having more than adequate strength in numbers; and Sedgwick's timid advance against a thinly defended Confederate position, which if pursued more aggressively would have resulted in yet another threatened flank for Lee.  How can one argue with this?  Hooker couldn't micromanage everything, and presumably these experienced officers should have known how to do their jobs.  As far as Hooker's behavior after his concussion, one cannot blame him one way or the other, because that is the way concussions are --- one is disoriented without totally realizing it.<br /><br />If Hooker is to be faulted, it is for making his battle plan so elaborate that everything had to work just right for it to be a success.  If your gadget has too many moving parts, it is only a matter of time before one of those parts breaks.  This was a plan that could have worked magnificently, but was just begging for something to go wrong with it.  Sears does not really discuss this flaw in Hooker's strategy.  As it turned out, virtually every bad turn of luck came to pass, almost unbelievably so.  Lee never fully realized just how much of a role dumb luck played in his victory, and his army would soon pay the price for that.<br /><br />Sears greatest strengths are in his blow-by-blow descriptions of the scenes of battle, and in his wonderful biographies in miniature of the participants.  He is by now well-acquainted with the ranks of the Armies of the Potomac and Northern Virginia, and knows where to look in his primary sources for nuggets worthy of our attention.  The reader will never be bored, and oftentimes will find it hard to put the book down --- even though we all know how this battle turned out.e parts breaks.  This was a plan that could have worked magnificently, but was just begging for something to go wrong with it.  Sears does not really discuss this flaw in Hooker's strategy.  As it turned out, virtually every bad turn of luck came to pass, almost unbelievably so.  Lee never fully realized just how much of a role dumb luck played in his victory, and his army would soon pay the price for that. <br /> <br />Sears greatest strengths are in his blow-by-blow descriptions of the scenes of battle, and in his wonderful biographies in miniature of the participants.  He is by now well-acquainted with the ranks of the Armies of the Potomac and Northern Virginia, and knows where to look in his primary sources for nuggets worthy of our attention.  The reader will never be bored, and oftentimes will find it hard to put the book down --- even though we all know how this battle turned out.	2005-02-23
US	38548391	R26O5L1ZZ0BL12	188576717X	814850526	Southern Slavery: As It Was	Books	1	73	104	N	N	Step right up, get your southern-fried pseudohistory here!	Suppose you are a son of the South, you consider yourself to be a good Christian, and (like most of us) would like to consider the deeds of your ancestors in the best light possible.  In that case, you are probably at the mercy of conflicting impulses, since the sine qua non of the Confederate States of America was the preservation of slavery, and virtually all mainstream Christians today are in agreement that slavery as practiced in the United States was an evil institution.  One cannot honor one's heritage without compromising one's heartfelt religious principals, and vice versa.  What is one to do?<br /><br />Well, the more prevelant route is that taken by most devotees of the Lost Cause mythos, which is that secession and the CSA was never about slavery, but rather \\"states' rights,\\" whatever the hell that might mean.  If one argues that rationale, all your opponent has to do is bring up either the Dred Scott decision or the Fugitive Slave Act, both of which utterly trample the notion of states' rights into the dust.  In short, the states' rights argument raises as many paradoxical questions as it hopes to answer.<br /><br />Another route is that taken by authors Wilson & Wilkins, who argue that 1) slavery was not contrary to godliness, and in fact it was the abolitionist movement which was contrary to the will of God; and 2) in any case, the slaves by and large were well-treated, well-fed and content with their existence.  Oh yes, and it was the fault of the Northern slave trade that slavery continued in the South in any case, so if there is an original sin of slavery, it is to be found somewhere near Boston --- gosh, we haven't heard this argument before, have we?<br /><br />The scholarship here, simply put, sucks.  However, that puts these clowns in good company as the pseudohistorians that are Holocaust deniers or (ironically) Afro-Centrists like GGM James or JA Rogers.  This work is heavily dependent on just a few sources, such as the writings of RL Dabney (not exactly a neutral source) or massively flawed statistical works like Engerman & Fogel's \\"Time on the Cross.\\"  The authors cherry-pick through the historical data, selecting only that data which fits into their pre-fabricated thesis.  When they aren't cherry-picking, they are engaged in wholesale distortion, such as the argument that the leadership of the North had fallen under the pernicious and bible-hating influence of New England Unitarianism, which the authors rank only slightly above devil-worship, apparently.<br /><br />Hmmmmmmmm.  I didn't realize that Springfield, Illinois was a hotbed of Unitarianism --- my mistake.  Also, I know my own family's history, and all of those ancestors from Ohio, Indiana & Illinois that joined the Republican party in the 1850's --- the last time I checked, almost all of them were Methodists, not Unitarians.  Where do you think Southern Baptists and Southern Methodists got their start anyway, because of disagreements over the tarriff?  Also, where do the Quakers, who really were the backbone of both the abolitionist and sufferage movements anyway, fit into the authors' simplistic scenario.<br /><br />Of course, one has to accept the notion that the authors' narrow definition of \\"orthodox\\" evangelical Christianity is the One True Faith, otherwise their thesis tends to fall apart in a hurry.  Regarding this, it might be in order to point out that these guys have ties to the Christian Reconstruction movement, a movement that frightens your more garden-variety right-wing Christians like Ralph Reed, for example.  Their extemism is pretty much off the charts (among other things, this movement envisions the recreation of the South as a separate, lily-white Christian republic where public stonings might be acceptable), so if your Southern Pride tendencies are more conventional, you might want to keep this in mind.<br /><br />All of this might seem pretty silly, but consider the relative success of the Holocaust Denial movement.  Fora generation now, the Holocaust deniers have been patiently peddling their wares, and now one sees a growing number of Americans (the numbers still vary considerably, depending on which poll you read) who now have doubts about the specifics of the Holocaust.  Because Americans by and large tend to be pretty uncritical of that which they see in print, this pseudohistory can have a lasting effect.  It remains to be seen if Wilson & Wilkins will succeed in their pushing their agenda.n patiently peddling their wares, and now one sees a growing number of Americans (the numbers still vary considerably, depending on which poll you read) who now have doubts about the specifics of the Holocaust.  Because Americans by and large tend to be pretty uncritical of that which they see in print, this pseudohistory can have a lasting effect.  It remains to be seen if Wilson & Wilkins will succeed in their pushing their agenda.	2005-02-10
US	38548391	R1WK30YPGMB5AJ	0786868384	689160669	Courting Justice: From NY Yankees v. Major League Baseball to Bush v. Gore, 1997-2000	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A real page-turner	I was originally drawn to this book after hearing an interview with the author regarding the Bush vs. Gore case, and I figured that the book's best sections would concern that case.  Little did I know that this memoir, covering eight cases between 1997 and 2000, would actually prove to be one of those books that is almost impossible to put down, as I couldn't wait to find out what happens next.<br /><br />Boies discusses the importance of the trial lawyer's keeping his arugments relatively simple and straightforward, and clearly he has kept that principle in mind when writing this book.  He discusses the technical ins and outs of each case, but does it in a style that not only is undaunting to laymen, but actually engages the average reader.  Even chapters like that covering the \\"Vitamins\\" case (where most of the scores of defendants settled long before the case went to trial) makes the intricate details of making financial settlements pretty interesting to follow.<br /><br />Some of the cases are so interesting, in and of themselves, that it is almost impossible not to engage the reader, and for me these were the ones to which Boies devoted the most book space, \\"Habie vs. Habie (54 pages),\\" US vs. Microsoft (109 pages),\\" and of course \\"Bush vs. Gore (106 pages).\\"  Each case has its unique aspects which make it fascinating.  With \\"Habie vs. Habie,\\" I found it very difficult to stop reading, as Boies puts himself in some potentially dangerous situations to achieve the recovery of two children kidnapped by their Guatemalan father --- a man who had millions of dollars, the Guatemalan government, and scores of gun-toting guards at his disposal.  The Microsoft case was just plain fun to read about, as Boies absolutely demolishes Microsoft's witnesses on the stand (here in Washington, that case got some impressive airplay at times).  \\"Bush vs. Gore,\\" of course has importance to every American.  There are other books that explore every nook and cranny of the Florida elections and recounts, and Boies (who came into the case halfway through) does not do that, but recollections of one of the case's principals is of course extremely important reading, particularly where he shreds the rationale of the US Supreme Court regarding the intervention & decisions made concerning the Florida recount.  Whatever one may think of the events leading up to the recount, one cannot help but be left concluding that the USSC seriously compromised its integrity with this decision.<br /><br />Aside from the cases, this cannot really be considered much of a memoir.  One is not left with much insight into Boies the private citizen, other than he takes an awful lot of vacations all around the world, and eats at some very nice restaurants.  Most of the photographs are of a personal nature, so the reader might be expect find more personal recollections within the book.  Good luck with that one, folks.<br /><br />That of course is a minor quibble.  This is a book that is informative, interesting and entertaining.  I enthusiastically recommend it!, and Boies (who came into the case halfway through) does not do that, but recollections of one of the case's principals is of course extremely important reading, particularly where he shreds the rationale of the US Supreme Court regarding the intervention & decisions made concerning the Florida recount.  Whatever one may think of the events leading up to the recount, one cannot help but be left concluding that the USSC seriously compromised its integrity with this decision.    Aside from the cases, this cannot really be considered much of a memoir.  One is not left with much insight into Boies the private citizen, other than he takes an awful lot of vacations all around the world, and eats at some very nice restaurants.  Most of the photographs are of a personal nature, so the reader might be expect find more personal recollections within the book.  Good luck with that one, folks.    That of course is a minor quibble.  This is a book that is informative, interesting and entertaining.  I enthusiastically recommend it!	2005-02-01
US	38548391	RKR5H46YBW5CZ	0975599518	192748477	Natural Cures "They" Don't Want You to Know about	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Dazzling display of hucksterism --- but it's still snake-oil	We all know the story by now.  Convicted felon, banned by the FTC from selling his coral calcium products in infomercials --- ladies and gentlemen, a big hand for Kevin Trudeau, the most celebrated huckster of our generation.  Thanks to the First Amendment, the FTC still allows him a loophole (via the right to sell publications) to take advantage of millions of credulous & gullible consumers who are all too willing to buy into the claims of conspiracy, coverup & pie-in-the-sky promises of natural cures.<br /><br />Here is the truth behind Trudeau's claim that the FTC won't allow him to tell you about these natural cures.  This, like so many other things Trudeau says, is totally untrue.  Trudeau can tell you anything he wants; he just can't sell you any products based on these claims.  If there's no profit in it, apparently Trudeau feels that his rights are being trampled underfoot.<br /><br />Mostly what one gets in this book is a polemic directed towards the FDA & the Pharmeceutical industry, which Trudeau claims are in cahoots with each other.  In a true pot-calling-the-kettle-black situation, Trudeau accuses the drug industry of screwing over the American people in search of greater profits.  Certainly, few people will defend the altruism of the drug industry, but this hardly exonerates Kevin Trudeau.  It would be like Hitler making critical comments about Stalin's violations of human rights.<br /><br />Beyond the screed which consumes the majority of the book, one gets advice that is either painfully obvious (more exercise?  gee thanks for enlightening me, Kevin) to the utterly bizarre (better living through multiple colonics) which, as more than a few medical practicioners have noted in reviews here, can put your health at risk if taken to their logical extremes.  It is only a matter of time before someone follows Trudeau's advice and pays for it with his/her life --- the First Amendment won't protect you there, Kev.  The jig will be up.<br /><br />Mostly, the book is an advertisement for his website --- where he promises (for a price, of course --- nothing is given away for free in the world of Kevin Trudeau) to reveal all of these wondrous natural cures.  I'm not crazy enough to plunk down that kind of money, but a few people have --- from what I've heard, you get more smoke & mirrors, more vague promises, but little real information.<br /><br />Finally, I have to address the issue of censorship.  In some of his more recent infomercials, Trudeau alludes to his life possibly being in danger, as though \\"they\\" are getting ready to take him out.  He clearly already feels that he is being censored, or at least this is what he would have us believe.  However, I have posted four previous reviews on this book, and all of them (like a great number of negative reviews) have mysteriously been deleted.  Meanwhile, the suspicious pattern of five-star reviews is becoming more & more the subject of discussion as of late.  I cannot speak for the others whose reviews have suddenly vanished, but I can only wonder --- and I will then drop the subject --- who is censoring whom.<br /><br />It is worth reading this book to know its contents, but save your money --- check it out from the library before you line this guy's pockets any further.ly, the book is an advertisement for his website --- where he promises (for a price, of course --- nothing is given away for free in the world of Kevin Trudeau) to reveal all of these wondrous natural cures.  I'm not crazy enough to plunk down that kind of money, but a few people have --- from what I've heard, you get more smoke & mirrors, more vague promises, but little real information. <br /> <br />Finally, I have to address the issue of censorship.  In some of his more recent infomercials, Trudeau alludes to his life possibly being in danger, as though \\"they\\" are getting ready to take him out.  He clearly already feels that he is being censored, or at least this is what he would have us believe.  However, I have posted four previous reviews on this book, and all of them (like a great number of negative reviews) have mysteriously been deleted.  Meanwhile, the suspicious pattern of five-star reviews is becoming more & more the subject of discussion as of late.  I cannot speak for the others whose reviews have suddenly vanished, but I can only wonder --- and I will then drop the subject --- who is censoring whom. <br /> <br />It is worth reading this book to know its contents, but save your money --- check it out from the library before you line this guy's pockets any further.	2005-01-26
US	38548391	RV5WR7B0U3CT4	1563054426	719187199	Barnyard Dance! (Boynton on Board)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lots of dancing fun	If you have a toddler that enjoys music, rhythm & dancing like our 18-month-old, this book will be a big hit.  After reading this book, our daughter loves to get down on the floor and do a little dance herself.  This can continue for some time, so if you want to burn up an afternoon, you could do worse than this book.	2005-01-25
US	38548391	R726UVUBRULET	067144901X	369551817	Moo Baa La La La	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just plain fun!	This is one of the books our 18-month-old turns to again and again, and she has a pretty big variety from which to choose.  A parent with any ability to mimic animal sounds will soon become the last word in entertainment in his/her child's eyes, thanks to this book.	2005-01-25
US	38548391	R2O1JO5PKYY1HZ	0679764410	864803147	American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The American Dreamer	This book is not so much a biography as it is a series of core samples being taken by a geologist.  The reader who is not familiar with Jefferson's life and career will certainly be frustrated by this book, which dips in and out of the Jeffersonian chronology, taking samples of the Jeffersonian psyche as it goes along.<br /><br />What emerges is the portrait of a man who was spectacularly full of contradictions, but also possessed the power of self-rationalization (some might say self-delusion) that allowed him basically to shoehorn the real world into the dream world he had constructed in his own idealistic flights of fancy.<br /><br />To say that Jefferson had a \\"pie in the sky\\" mentality is something of an understatement.  After reading some of his notions of how the country ought to be run, I found myself feeling grateful that Jefferson was safely stashed in France while more realistic & pragmatic men like Madison & Hamilton worked to assemble the US Constitution.  There are times when one is left wondering if Jefferson had even the foggiest notion of what the provisions of the Constitution even were, as Madison repeatedly is depicted bringing his mentor back to earth as Jefferson's radical imagination runs amok about what the nature of the republic ought to be.<br /><br />It is probably a good thing that Jefferson's ability to construct working political models was almost nil, because Ellis demonstrates pretty convincingly that Jefferson was one of the true radicals of his generation.  At times he reminds me of Marxist ideologues and counterculture hippies, who are so committed to keeping the purity of their ideology that they have no earthly idea how to apply it to the real world that the rest of us exist in.  While the other Founding Fathers found that compromises were necessary (whether that meant building a strong trading relationship with Great Britain, or creating a government that was more centralized than that under the Articles of Confederation), Jefferson remained committed throughout his life to his idealized notion of what republic of 1776 was really all about.  Anyone who disagreed with his view of true republican principles was either a traitor to the Revolution or a lost, misguided soul waiting to be converted to the Jeffersonian True Faith.  In any case, the notion that the Other Side might have valid points about the nature of the republic was simply not a notion that Jefferson could ever consider.<br /><br />Nonetheless, Ellis shows Jefferson repeatedly violating his own principles, with acts such as the Louisiana Purchase (which did as much as to centralize the federal government as anything Hamilton ever did) to trying make the judicial branch subservient to the whims of the executive branch.  With the Louisiana Purchase, one sees the emergence of the Jefferson the pragmatic politician, yet Jefferson would never concede that this was anything of the sort.  With some amazingly dexterous self-rationalization, Jefferson was able to convince himself that he was remaining true to the republican ideal, no matter what the facts appeared to be.<br /><br />That is probably why he appeals so much to the American psyche, Ellis suspects.  Because Jefferson always remained a dreamer, he could be all things to all people --- he can tell us exactly what we want to hear, no matter what the facts appear to be.  Jefferson is the perfect politician, and Ellis argues that he probably would be quite successful on today's campaign trail.  We grow weary of nuts-and-bolts policy wonks like Madison, which is probably why nobody makes pilgrimages to Montpelier.  We much prefer our dreamers.throughout his life to his idealized notion of what republic of 1776 was really all about.  Anyone who disagreed with his view of true republican principles was either a traitor to the Revolution or a lost, misguided soul waiting to be converted to the Jeffersonian True Faith.  In any case, the notion that the Other Side might have valid points about the nature of the republic was simply not a notion that Jefferson could ever consider.    Nonetheless, Ellis shows Jefferson repeatedly violating his own principles, with acts such as the Louisiana Purchase (which did as much as to centralize the federal government as anything Hamilton ever did) to trying make the judicial branch subservient to the whims of the executive branch.  With the Louisiana Purchase, one sees the emergence of the Jefferson the pragmatic politician, yet Jefferson would never concede that this was anything of the sort.  With some amazingly dexterous self-rationalization, Jefferson was able to convince himself that he was remaining true to the republican ideal, no matter what the facts appeared to be.    That is probably why he appeals so much to the American psyche, Ellis suspects.  Because Jefferson always remained a dreamer, he could be all things to all people --- he can tell us exactly what we want to hear, no matter what the facts appear to be.  Jefferson is the perfect politician, and Ellis argues that he probably would be quite successful on today's campaign trail.  We grow weary of nuts-and-bolts policy wonks like Madison, which is probably why nobody makes pilgrimages to Montpelier.  We much prefer our dreamers.	2005-01-20
US	38548391	R3NN11M13HDREM	0945707339	131782914	James Madison: A Biography	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Essential reading when trying to understand Madison	As other reviewers have remarked this almost 700-page biography is one not casually approached.  Ketcham is readable enough, but his prose is not as accessible to the general public as pop-historians like Ambrose & McCullough.  However, given the recent negative publicity surrounding the latter authors' less-than-stellar research makes me think that in the long run, Ketcham has made a more lasting contribution to our understanding of US history than the other authors.<br /><br />One will not find a more comprehensive biography than this.  Ketcham was the first researcher to have full access to Madison's papers, and it is clear that he has done his research.  The reader would be well-advised to peruse both the endnotes and the bibliography, as they provide a treasure trove of information.<br /><br />Ketcham does an excellent job in demonstrating just how much of a long shot at times the drafting & ratification of the US Constitution was, and if not for the brilliance of Madison (both in conceptualizing the framework of government and in defending it in debates --- one forgets sometimes what an extraordinarily able parliamentarian Madison was), the attempt to reorganize the government might very well have been scuttled by obstructionists such as Patrick Henry.<br /><br />One also appreciates more the fact that not everyone had the same idea on how this new government should constructed, and not everyone was happy with the result.  The drafting was the first part --- the ratification was more difficult, and required all of the persuasive powers of the men behind the Constitution, which can be found to great extent in the Federalist Papers.  Ketcham does not dwell extensively on the Federalist Papers, using only 10 pages (pp. 239-249) to discuss them.  The content of the 85 essays is not analysed (Ketcham apparently assumes the reader is capable of seeking out a copy of the Federalist Papers on his/her own), other than a few of the more notable ones such as #10.<br /><br />It is at this point that Madison begins to emerge as the main \\"idea man\\" for the republican philosophy.  Having succeeded in giving the US a workable government, Madison is shown by Ketcham leading the fight in Congress against the tendencies of the Federalists towards concentration of federal government power.<br /><br />The gist of Ketcham's biography is that Madison, throughout his life, remained true to the ideals of republicanism, but was not dogmatic about it.  Even though Madison opposed the Hamiltonian System in the 1790's, by his second term as President Madison was endorsing a national bank, protective tarriffs, and various internal improvements (although he believe that a constitutional amendment was necessary for the government to develop a system of roads & canals).  Ketcham argues that Madison's stands need to be considered in their proper context.  The stability of the nation & government was much less in question in 1816 than it was in 1793, and Madison felt that tendencies towards centralization did not pose the threat to republican government that they might once have.<br /><br />Definitely, Ketcham is something of an apologist for Madison, as becomes clear in the chapters covering the War of 1812, not exactly Madison's finest hour.  The War of 1812 exposed some glaring weaknesses in the republican philosophy, and also showed that Madison was wholly unequal to the demands of a wartime president.  Madison's reluctance to move in the direction of a strong wartime executive meant that he dithered at crucial times when he needed to be making firm decisions.  Clearly the buck did not stop here, in Madison's view.  Ketcham is most scrupulous in showing that there was blame aplenty to go around, and hardly lets Madison off the hook, but one cannot help but feel that Ketcham is sometimes pulling his punches.  Whether or not this is because other historians have subjected Madison to merciless criticism for his wartime leadership, I cannot be sure.  Ketcham often cites the commentary of Madison's detractors in his text, so he may have felt that it was necessary to level the playing field.  He goes to great pains to explain his defense of Madison, and to put everything in its proper context; for this he is to be commended.<br /><br />Madison seems unjustly to have fallen into the cracks of history despite his invaluable contributions to the birth of the nation.  Ketcham has done the best anyone could to rectify the situation.ractors in his text, so he may have felt that it was necessary to level the playing field.  He goes to great pains to explain his defense of Madison, and to put everything in its proper context; for this he is to be commended.    Madison seems unjustly to have fallen into the cracks of history despite his invaluable contributions to the birth of the nation.  Ketcham has done the best anyone could to rectify the situation.	2004-12-28
US	38548391	R39SBZ44B51K5X	0807002348	366124037	Resurrecting Empire: Western Footprints and America's Perilous Path in the Middle East	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A helpful book for laymen seeking to understand the region	Echoing an earlier review, it is certainly true that Khalidi has his own agenda in place, but I found his book to be relatively even-handed.  Compare him to his mentor Edward Said, who never met a sweeping generalization that he would not try to shoehorn into whatever thesis he was presenting.  For example, take the role of Great Britain in the Middle East; Said was prepared to lay all the sins in the calendar at the doorstep of the Brits, while Khalidi actually compliments the British specialists at one point for having a more realistic appraisal of the region.  (pp. 160-161)  Overall, I found Khalidi to be fairly disciplined in his approach, which kept this book from becoming too much of a polemic.<br /><br />One of the characteristics of a polemic is offering easy solutions to all problems.  Khalidi does not pretend to have answers to the Iraq problem, or even the Palestinian problem, which can either open him up to criticism or praise, depending on one's perspective.  The gist of his argument is that the current policies & approaches are clearly not working, and have not been working for a considerable amount of time, so why continue stubbornly to use them in the future?  As Khalidi states regarding the assorted disputes in the region, \\"while resolving these disputes will not automatically bring democracy, failing to resolve them, allowing them to fester, or making them worse virtually guarantees the constan creation of new obstacles to democratization and respect for human rights.\\" (p. 71)<br /><br />Khalidi is quite upfront when he states that this is not a book for specialists, who should probably know everything that he is discussing already.  Rather, it is more of a primer intended for the public in general which may not know or recall the history of the region.  For example, anyone who was not an adult before about 1980 may not be aware that the US took a largely neutral position regarding Israel & the Palestinians, and opposed overtly aggressive acts by former colonial powers (Britain & France) in the region, most notably with the Suez Crisis of 1956.  He also helps educate the public when he demonstrates how spectacularly ignorant key members of the Bush administration were regarding the region, as when they weighed the prospects of installing a member of the Hashemite royal family as the puppet ruler of Iraq (pp.51-52).<br /><br />If the current administration is genuine in its desire to bring democracy to the region --- and Khalidi is obviously skeptical about this --- the anyone who was not already familiar with the region's history should be questioning both the administration's judgement and motives after reading this book.  Those who strongly support an Israeli or neoconservative agenda will obviously have nothing good to say about this book (as evidenced by a few of the reviews here), but this book was not in any way intended for that particular audience.  Khalidi understands that the public at large can only form opinions based on the information it is given, and the public is not comprised primarily of Middle East specialists.  Khalidi obviously hopes to impart information that will better educate the public, and he does a good job of it with this well-written & cogently presented book.by former colonial powers (Britain & France) in the region, most notably with the Suez Crisis of 1956.  He also helps educate the public when he demonstrates how spectacularly ignorant key members of the Bush administration were regarding the region, as when they weighed the prospects of installing a member of the Hashemite royal family as the puppet ruler of Iraq (pp.51-52). <br /> <br />If the current administration is genuine in its desire to bring democracy to the region --- and Khalidi is obviously skeptical about this --- the anyone who was not already familiar with the region's history should be questioning both the administration's judgement and motives after reading this book.  Those who strongly support an Israeli or neoconservative agenda will obviously have nothing good to say about this book (as evidenced by a few of the reviews here), but this book was not in any way intended for that particular audience.  Khalidi understands that the public at large can only form opinions based on the information it is given, and the public is not comprised primarily of Middle East specialists.  Khalidi obviously hopes to impart information that will better educate the public, and he does a good job of it with this well-written & cogently presented book.	2004-12-27
US	38548391	RSA0QMW5W3Q4	0786700009	762887099	At the Heart of a Tiger: Clemenceau and His World 1841-1929	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Unreadable	There may some great information to be found within this biography, but I have no idea what it might be.  I'm sorry, but after half a dozen tries, I found this book to be organized in a haphazard fashion and so badly written as to be unreadable, and I simply abandoned the book as a lost cause.  Clemenceau is a hugely interesting historical figure & clearly the author has a great admiriation for him, but the inpenetrable writing style obscures this entirely.  If you are a student and have no other source materials available for your Clemenceau report, you have my sympathies.  I would recommend this book only to the most masochistic of readers.	2004-11-15
US	38548391	R2TB98J8YBN0BJ	0385504543	56058939	Critical Condition: How Health Care in America Became Big Business--and Bad Medicine	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Good analysis of the history of market-based healthcare	For those people who vaguely remember when healthcare & insurance was generally a manageable aspect of our lives (as opposed to being a source of stress & potential financial ruin), this book will explain very well how healthcare in US arrived at the point where it is today.  For younger readers, this book will remind them that once upon a time, there was a country where insurance was fairly comprehensive & affordable, hospitals were oriented towards community rather than being part of a bottom-line-obsessed corporation, and pharmaceutical commercials were not littering the airwaves.<br /><br />The authors do an excellent job of showing that the shift, on every level of healthcare, to a market-based economic model has achieved exactly the opposite of what the proponents of the free market claimed would happen.  Instead of streamlining healthcare & making it as a whole more efficient and affordable, the shift to the free market has actually created a massive bureaucracy (which conservatives claim to loath) and a far less efficient healthcare system.  Certainly it is not any more affordable.  Anyone who is familiar with medical collections & with the stunning increase in bankruptcies over the last few years can attest to this.  The authors underscore their arguments with a litany of horror stories of patients dying or suffering hugely at the hands of a hopelessly tangled system which emphasizes the bottom line over the welfare of the patient.<br /><br />All of this is well and good, and mighty depressing.  However, only a minimal amount of time is devoted to what might be done about it.  The authors' suggestion --- the adoption of a single-payor system --- is fine as far as it goes, but they offer only a cursory examination of the benefits of such a system and do not delve into any of the criticisms of the same.  Neither do they discuss other proposals such as tort reform, which is the Bush administration's answer seemingly to every healthcare crisis.  In interviews, the authors have observed that capping jury awards would only make a tiny dent in the overall costs of insurance, and certainly tort reform has had mixed results at best, depending on which of the states that have passed tort reform legislation one examines.  Yet the authors barely touch on it their text.  At the very end of their book, the authors mention the fact that Big Business (aside from the healthcare industry) certainly has good reason to want a single-payor system, since healthcare costs cut deeply into THEIR profits, thus setting up a contest of sorts between two powerful for-profit entities.  It is probably the fact that the combined power of multiple US industries outweighs the power of the insurance & healthcare industries that will ultimately force genuine changes in how this country manages healthcare, but the authors for whatever reason prefer not to explore this particular topic.  This is unfortunate.<br /><br />Overall, this book provides some good detail on issues we all need to know more about, but if you are looking for detailed solutions, you will need to look elsewhere.ws, the authors have observed that capping jury awards would only make a tiny dent in the overall costs of insurance, and certainly tort reform has had mixed results at best, depending on which of the states that have passed tort reform legislation one examines.  Yet the authors barely touch on it their text.  At the very end of their book, the authors mention the fact that Big Business (aside from the healthcare industry) certainly has good reason to want a single-payor system, since healthcare costs cut deeply into THEIR profits, thus setting up a contest of sorts between two powerful for-profit entities.  It is probably the fact that the combined power of multiple US industries outweighs the power of the insurance & healthcare industries that will ultimately force genuine changes in how this country manages healthcare, but the authors for whatever reason prefer not to explore this particular topic.  This is unfortunate. <br /> <br />Overall, this book provides some good detail on issues we all need to know more about, but if you are looking for detailed solutions, you will need to look elsewhere.	2004-11-11
US	38548391	R24SBJQL3V4HZG	0312152442	363218923	Winterkill: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent fiction with characters of great depth	I do not read much current fiction.  There is a lot of stuff coming out every day that ranges from mediocre to simply god-awful, and who knows what you are going to get when you pick up a book?  I only have so much time available to read books, so it is too valuable to waste on crappy fiction.  Therefore I tend to avoid the newer stuff until the chaff has been sifted out.<br /><br />This was an exception.  I stumbled onto \\"The Reader\\" while this novel was being featured.  It was about two-thirds of the way through the book, and after listening to two episodes, I was hooked and grabbed a copy at the nearest bookstore to read for myself.<br /><br />It is a touching story that appeals to the reader on many levels.  The exploration of the two father-son relationships should ring true for many readers, as should Danny's attempts to come to terms with the fact that he is no longer a young man who can easily withstand the rigors of the rodeo circuit.  Danny is a marvelously complex character who intrigues the reader.  Lesley is careful not to make Danny seem overly heroic or noble, for that would simply make him into a caricature.  Instead, he becomes a character that all too many of us can relate to, regardless of our ethnicity.<br /><br />For the reviewer that complained that \\"by the end of the novel nothing in the plot has been solved or put to rest,\\" I feel that that was one of the stronger aspects of the book, and would gently point out that few things in real life wrap up neatly at the end of a 30 or 60-minute episode.  This is fiction we are talking about, not fantasy.<br /><br />Lesley richly deserves the two Pulitzer nominations he has garnered, and perhaps someday it will be a win and not just a nomination.  He is one of a handful of contemporary authors whose work I will read without hesitation.	2004-10-28
US	38548391	R2K09CD2JBXIB2	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	1	64	121	N	N	WESTBROOK PEGLER REDUX	Only older Americans or historians will remember the rantings of Westbrook Pegler, who wrote many columns accusing Eleanor Roosevelt of being a communist and wrote a notorious column in the late 1930's stating that lynchings really weren't all that terrible.  At one point, Pegler was far more prominent a pundit than Ann Coulter could ever hope to be, but the need to maintain that envelope-pushing reputation ultimately led Pegler to marginalize himself.  Eventually only the John Birch Society and other fringe groups of the late 1950's & 1960's would publish his columns.  Pegler ended up dying in complete obscurity, and few people today give him even passing notice.<br /><br />Ann Coulter is well on her way to Peglerizing herself.  This new book (craftily timed for release just before the November elections I am sure) seems as redundant as anything she has written, and seems calculated only to make a quick buck more than anything else.  Never mind the message --- I think we all know where Ann Coulter stands in her opinions towards Democrats and the always amorphous \\"liberals\\" --- my principal objection to this book is that we really have heard all of this from her before, again & again & again.  Maybe Ann Coulter is a closet environmentalist, because she definitely seems to believe in recycling her material.<br /><br />Perhaps Ann Coulter knows that this act can only go on so long.  What in the world will happen to her if George W. Bush is re-elected and the GOP maintains its majority in Congress?  She really sucks as an apologist, and is even worse as an advocate for any particular conservative ideology.  One can only go after Bill Clinton for so long.  I strongly suspect that she may be voting for John Kerry next month, because she is in desperate need of new material.<br /><br />If the well dries up, Ann Coulter may well know that she is on her way to the sidelines and whatever cash she has stashed away will need to last her for the rest of her life, hence the assembly line approach to book-writing she seems to have taken.  Not that I can blame her --- if I could just cut & paste a bunch of my old columns, call it a book, and know that it would sell millions of copies, I can't say I would have many qualms about doing it.  God bless the spirit of Free Enterprise --- or something like that.mbly line approach to book-writing she seems to have taken.  Not that I can blame her --- if I could just cut & paste a bunch of my old columns, call it a book, and know that it would sell millions of copies, I can't say I would have many qualms about doing it.  God bless the spirit of Free Enterprise --- or something like that.	2004-10-19
US	38548391	R10TVIH74IEK3S	0375408983	679367486	Elizabeth and Mary: Cousins, Rivals, Queens	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Biography of a relationship, very well done	Trying to sustain two separate narratives simultaneously is not the easiest thing for an author to do, and Dunn does a very good job with this.  She succeeds in large part because she avoids making this book a dual biography --- a great deal of biographical detail that might be found in other books is simply left out here, either because Dunn presupposes knowledge on the part of the reader or because she feels that the biographical details do not help propel the narrative.  She is more interested in the dynamics of the relationship, and in the considerable contrast between the two queens.<br /><br />In general, Elizabeth comes off looking better in the hands of Dunn.  This may bother some devotees to the legend of the Queen of Scots, but the historical record that Dunn presents makes it hard to dispute that Mary, dealt an excellent hand that could have won her the thrones of both England & Scotland, blew every advantage she had.  One decision after another, poorly considered and rashly made, led first to her deposition, secondly to her exile & imprisonment, and ultimately to her execution.  Only when on trial for her life does Mary seem to have acquired the presence of mind to consider carefully her options, and it resulted in an excellent public relations move where posterity is concerned.<br /><br />Elizabeth, by contrast, has to be one of maybe three or four English monarchs that was least secure in her royal claims & accession to the throne.  Having come perilously close to death herself through some ill-considered youthful decisions, Elizabeth played her cards close throughout a good portion of her reign.  Dunn clearly admires Elizabeth's ability to use indecision and equivocation as weapons, keeping her enemies at arm's length.  However, Dunn also recognizes that there are times when equivocation simply will not do the trick anymore, such as in the executions first of the Duke of Norfolk and then of Mary herself for treason.  At these points, Elizabeth appears to be wavering & weak, unequal to the demands of her position.<br /><br />The story is fascinating.  The marked contrast of the queens' personalities, alongside the good and bad decisions each of them made, demonstrates that history could have turned out much differently.  This is an excellent study in the strengths and weaknesses of two dynamic leaders.  I would think that this would excellent reading for a management seminar, among other things.  The narrative is also brisk and coherent, not an easy task considering the subject matter.  The author should be congratulated on this.ears to be wavering & weak, unequal to the demands of her position. <br /> <br />The story is fascinating.  The marked contrast of the queens' personalities, alongside the good and bad decisions each of them made, demonstrates that history could have turned out much differently.  This is an excellent study in the strengths and weaknesses of two dynamic leaders.  I would think that this would excellent reading for a management seminar, among other things.  The narrative is also brisk and coherent, not an easy task considering the subject matter.  The author should be congratulated on this.	2004-10-19
US	38548391	R12I3BKBL23TRN	067975038X	586005349	Saints Preserve Us!: Everything You Need to Know About Every Saint You'll Ever Need	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Funny & informative, but not for the extremely reverent	As some of the previous reviews have indicated, this is not exactly an appropriate book for 1) those who take their saints VERY seriously; and 2) those who are trying to educate their youngsters about the lives of saints.  Addressing the second group, I might point out that the only times I have seen this book in bookstores it was shelved in the humor section rather than the religion section, and that in itself should be a pretty clue.  I suppose some libraries might shelve this in the religion section, but a quick perusal ought to reveal the gentle irreverence found throughout the book.<br /><br />For those Catholics who enjoy laughing at some of the more admittedly absurd aspects of Church history, this book will be a real hoot.  It is in no way definitive, but it does have an impressive number of rather obscure saints listed.  There is humor aplenty to be found here, but one will also at times encounter some rather incisive commentary on how the Church infrastructure has developed over the centuries, and also on some of the politics that is sometimes involved in the canonization process.<br /><br />As a reference guide it has its limits, but if you just need the basics (patron saints for nations & professions, which saints you should invoke for which ailments, and which saints get which days) this book does a pretty good job of covering what you might need.<br /><br />Remember to avoid this book like the plague if your religious sensibilities are easily offended.  You have been warned.	2004-10-08
US	38548391	R36X9H79GGEG5E	0618219285	37245129	Robert Kennedy and His Times	Books	3	7	21	N	N	Not as bad as some of Artie's Camelot gushing	Is this book impossibly biased?  You bet your New England Clam Chowdah.  Is it as bad as some of the other books Artie has written to perpetuate the Camelot myth?  Amazingly, no.  Perhaps it is because Artie doesn't have the same sort of man-crush on RFK as he does on JFK, I do not know.  In any case, the treacly sentiment that has pervaded much of Schlesinger's work on the Kennedys is a bit more subdued in this work.<br /><br />That having been said, this can be considered a work of only marginal usefulness for students of the period.  I suspect that we still need a few more years' distance from the events in question before a truly definitive RFK biography can be written.  Definitely Schlesinger, well into his dotage, has nothing more of use to say on the subject.	2004-10-05
US	38548391	R3OVDA3JJK2IK4	1583940537	730675524	Walter the Farting Dog	Books	4	132	145	N	N	Putting things in perspective	Is this the greatest kids' book ever?  I certainly wouldn't try to make a case for that.  Does it deserve the venom that some of the reviewers have directed at it?  Hardly, but some people are coming as close as they can to alleging plagarism on the part of the author.  Fart plagarism --- I never thought I would live to see the day.<br /><br />Honestly, if anything written from this point forward involving dogs and flatulence is immediately going to be subjected to allegations of plagarism, then we might as well take the allegations to their logical extremes.  I would note that John Irving featured a farting dog in the 1981 novel \\"Hotel New Hampshire,\\" which I guess means all farting dog books since then are simply John Irving ripoffs.<br /><br />For those reviewers who were shocked, shocked I tell you, that the book's content was, dare I say it, a little crude --- I would simply suggest that you read the book's title a little more diligently.  There is no hidden agenda here --- what you see is what you get, and really, it is not nearly as vulgar as it could be.  Good grief.<br /><br />As to the book itself --- it is a fairly entertaining book with amusingly bizarre artwork and some pretty amusing dialogue.  An adult with some talent with sound effects could have a great deal of fun entertaining the youngsters, as I did. Books that are as much fun for the adult reader as the youthful listener don't come down the pike every day.	2004-09-21
US	38548391	R1277KCP70XD9C	0618219277	443020119	A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House	Books	1	8	46	N	N	Camelot's court historian writes nostalgic gush	Simply put, this is one of the books that shattered Schlesinger's credibility as a legitimate historian once and for all.  Once he was \\"Artie,\\" the precocious high-flying historian/prodigy, amazing his peers & elders with his dazzling talents as an author & scholar.  Now he is a superannuated peddler of Camelot nostalgia and a defender of a school of thought that has been so thoroughly discredited over the years that it truly is a wonder that anyone takes Schlesinger seriously anymore.  Really, the only author/historian that is worse in this field is possibly Manchester.<br /><br />How can anyone regard this stuff as serious history?  It is as though Schlesinger has sustained a sort of man-crush on JFK for all these years and cannot bring himself to be even remotely objective about a rather undistinguished administration.  He really contributes nothing to this field of study, so save yourself the effort of reading this tripe.	2004-09-17
US	38548391	RBTH7UWRK9T42	0316835145	295425783	Skeletons on the Zahara: A True Story of Survival	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Pretty good entry in this particular genre	A cottage industry of sorts seems to have developed in the last few years, revolving around jaw-dropping historical accounts of a group of unfortunates placed in horrifying situations where the chances of survival are slim.  Memorable recent entries include \\"Into Thin Air,\\" \\"In the Heart of the Sea,\\" and the various Shackleton books & movies.  Now we have another story of shipwreck, starvation and (for some) survival to enjoy.<br /><br />This book is essentially a rehashing of two survivor's accounts which were published in the 19th century and without which Dean King would have no story to tell.  King acquits himself well by filling in the blanks with discussions of the society of the Western Sahara & also the science of starvation & dehydration.  The narrative is not particularly memorable but is reasonably good.  Really, the story tells itself pretty well as it is.<br /><br />This is pretty much par for the course for this genre.  Like its predecessors, this book does a good job of making you feel pretty damned lucky to be sitting in relative comfort reading a book, so I guess it does its job.  Also, an interesting but forgotten story has been resurrected for a new generation of readers, which can only be a good thing.	2004-08-22
US	38548391	R1QM5OZRDWWM9I	0439567610	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Author runs amok!  Editors tremble in fear!	Clearly that is what has happened here. After three books of a reasonable length did spectacularly well in sales, the publishing house decided to let Rowling indulge herself with \\"Goblet of Fire,\\" and it showed --- the book was nearly double in length than its predecessors. Left to her own devices, it appears that Rowling displays some of Tolkien's worst tendencies as a writer --- that is, a penchant for bogging the reader down in mind-numbing detail, describing at alarming length every peak & valley, while simultaneously allowing the characters to become more one-dimensional. Also evident in \\"Goblet of Fire\\" was serious structural stress on the narrative as a whole; Rowling seemed incapable of keeping a book of that length from meandering & losing focus at times.<br />Now, with the \\"Order of the Phoenix,\\" Rowling has gone from bad to worse, clocking in at nearly 900 pages, the equivalent of the first two books and half of the third. Once again, the coherence of the narrative appears at points to buckle under the weight of the text. Rowling's editors seem afraid to do their jobs now, I guess because they are afraid of killing a cash cow. What other reason could there be for this. We can only assume that Book 6, at the rate Rowling is going, will exceed 1000 pages in length, and that book 7 may collapse from its own density, create a black hole, and destroy our solar system.<br />A very promising series is beginning to bog down under the weight of its own author's indulgences. There is a good chance that younger readers will soldier on through the earlier books only to become disenchanted by the daunting length of the later entries. We all know how high schoolers hate \\"Moby Dick,\\" a truly great book which runs only a little more than 600 pages. It would sad to see the Harry Potter series turn into something that young readers regard as more of a chore than a pleasure, but it seems well on its way to doing just that, if the editors don't step in and get Rowling under control.control.	2004-06-24
US	38548391	R2L2RAQAKMSZN1	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	2	26	36	N	N	Attack of the mutant modifiers	I eagerly opened this book and excitedly began reading it. After a few excruciating minutes, my wife walked by quietly.<br />\\"What are you reading?\\" she asked curiously.<br />\\"Eragon,\\" I replied discouragedly.<br />\\"Why do you sound depressed?\\" she inquired inquiringly.<br />\\"Every other word is a damned adverb or adjective,\\" I replied irritatedly.<br />\\"That could be a problem,\\" she replied knowingly.<br />\\"Yes, it IS a problem,\\" I muttered angrily. \\"Nobody simply DOES something in this book, they have to do it DESCRIPTIVELY. (...)\\"<br />\\"One might say his writing is rather prolix,\\" she observed sagely.<br />\\"Actually, I like the word prolix and I even use it from time to time, but yes that about hits the nail on the head,\\" I declared emphatically.<br />\\"How much shorter would this book be if some editor hacked off all the deadwood adjectives & adverbs?\\" she mused bemusedly.<br />\\"Probably about 100 pages,\\" I replied speculatively.	2004-06-24
US	38548391	R20VK7RO47JUDR	0345461002	605293788	Cottonwood	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Extremely entertaining	I am not much of a reader of novels, nor was I particularly familiar with Scott Phillips.  I only picked this novel up because I am originally from Labette County and I was interested to see how he would incorporate the actual historical events of the region into his story.<br /><br />Having finished a book that was very very hard to put down, I find myself anxiously awaiting Phillips' next effort while simultaneously seeking out his previous two novels, which as I understand were set in 20th-century Wichita.<br /><br />Phillips has a gifted eye for the absurd (which occasionally veers into the realm of the obscene, so be warned) accompanied by a talent for good dialogue.  There were several times where I literally had to struggle not laugh out loud (the baby had just fallen asleep, after all), and I often found myself repeatedly reading passages to my wife so that she too could appreciate one ludicrous scene after another.  It was great fun.<br /><br />The novel can get dark at times, and is often downright gruesome, but for the most part it is ribald Western satire featuring a very interesting protagonist & narrator, Bill Ogden, who is wonderfully amoral --- for the most part, until the chips are down --- and irreverent.  Circumstances of his own doing (and some beyond his control) come to pass which force Ogden to flee Cottonwood for almost 20 years as a much-maligned individual, until other events come to pass that induce him to return to the scene of the crime (so to speak) and confront his past actions, as well as dispense justice.<br /><br />Most of Phillips' strengths lay in his skill with dialogue & character development.  He does not spend much time describing the countryside as other authors might do.  Some readers may consider this a liability & others may see it as an asset --- all I can say is that I would not have recognized Labette County from any other region in Kansas based on Phillips' descriptive powers.  However, his characters are so entertaining as to make you not care particularly.  What matters is the story in any case, and this is a good one indeed.ng as to make you not care particularly.  What matters is the story in any case, and this is a good one indeed.	2004-06-22
US	38548391	R3RBLNXJA98FXC	0871138743	758410541	Triangle: The Fire That Changed America	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Essential reading when trying to understand modern America	For all those people who complain about Big Government &amp; excessive government regulation in the workplace, this book should serve as a gentle reminder that these regulations are not enacted in a vacuum, but rather are in response to a clearly perceived need for reform.  Do we really think that Big Business, left to its own devices, would not let a tragedy such as the Triangle fire happen again?<br />Von Drehle goes beyond just giving us a blow-by-blow account of how the fire happened.  He shows why the fire had the impact it had by putting it in the larger context of labor relations &amp; the political climate of New York City.  A significant 1909 strike by shirtwaist makers, combined with a shift in power within the Tammany Machine, made it possible for real steps in reform to be made in the next decade.  Of course, it was the horrifying nature of the Triangle fire that provided the impetus for change, but if it had happened 10 years earlier, it is hard to see that it would have had the impact that it did.<br />Von Drehle does a good job combining s journalist's narrative skill with historian's perspective, something that is not that easy to do.  It would have been easy enough simply to focus on the only the fire &amp; the subsequent trial, but the historian in von Drehle understands that the Triangle fire is only important when understood in the larger context.<br />Everyone who has ever held a job should read this book to get a real sense of perspective.  Anyone who spends a lot of time extolling the virtues of free enterprise might consider that this book portrays free enterprise taken to its logical extremes, with fatal &amp; horrifying results.  Theoretrically, unrestrained free enterprise may seem fine and dandy, but we have seen the reality of it --- this book chronicles just a small portion of that reality.	2004-06-21
US	38548391	R1FTA935EHT9N2	0684856883	66298239	To Conquer the Air : The Wright Brothers and the Great Race for Flight	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Forgotten aspects of the race for flight well presented	This could have been a tangled &amp; complicated story, or it could have been a one-dimensional story of the Wright Brothers and nobody else.  Fortunately, Tobin has the skills as a researcher &amp; writer to sustain about half a dozen different story lines without having the whole structure collapse.  I am not sure which was harder --- keeping this book coherent or perfecting the art of flight.<br />What was most interesting for me were how different the incentives were for the various compeitors.  For some the incentive was the pure pursuit of science (the Wrights &amp; Alexander Bell), for some the incentive was securing a place in history (S.P. Langley &amp; Octave Chanute), and for some it was the quest for profit &amp; commercial success, plain &amp; simple (Glen Hammond).<br />Just the motives were extremely varied, so too were the approaches to solving the challenge of flight.  Langley assumed that the biggest part of the puzzle was power; build an engine strong enough and the other details would just work themselves out.  If Langley had had a jet engine available, he might have gotten away with it --- although I wouldn't want to be flying in any plane developed along those lines.  The Wrights on the other hand, saw the challenge of lift to be the key to the puzzle --- build a device that could achieve near-vertical lift and you could probably manage without a super-powerful engine.<br />One comes away from this book with an enhanced respect for the natural scientific brilliance of the Wrights.  So few of us actually have any knowledge of the systematic approach the Wrights took in solving the problem of lift in their little wind tunnel.  Never ones to get ahead of themselves, the Wrights made sure they had explored every wing configuration they could think of before moving to the next stage of development.<br />Tobin could have ended the story with the Wright's first flight, but he is too good of a historian not to look at the larger picture.  As soon as one battle was won, other battles needed to be fought.  It is open to debate as to who ultimately won this war, depending on what your perspective was.<br />This was a great book.  Tobin makes aerodynamics pretty understandable to almost anyone, and he has a great narrative skill.  You will be left with a much greater respect for what a magnificent scientific feat achieving flight was --- after all, almost everyone else ultimately failed.e battle was won, other battles needed to be fought.  It is open to debate as to who ultimately won this war, depending on what your perspective was.<br />This was a great book.  Tobin makes aerodynamics pretty understandable to almost anyone, and he has a great narrative skill.  You will be left with a much greater respect for what a magnificent scientific feat achieving flight was --- after all, almost everyone else ultimately failed.	2004-06-21
US	38548391	R3DDWBDKGO2XO3	0684844281	357972578	Ronald Reagan	Books	3	4	19	N	N	Says more about the author in many ways than about Reagan	Nobody will ever every mistake this for a scholarly, objective account of Reagan, but at least D'Souza has the decency to admit up front that he is no way objective about this particular subject.<br />As history, it is almost worthless.  However, as an examination into the mindset of the conservative movement largely fostered by Reagan, this is a most useful source.  You may not come across with a better understanding of Reagan (let's face it, D'Souza is basically preaching to the neoconservative choir), but you may better understand those who came after Reagan.  Because of that, the book does have merit (albeit not of the sort the author may have intended) and thus I give it three stars.  Just make sure to read the book in its proper context.	2004-06-18
US	38548391	R24CEIYLNVTUZR	1559585595	157163385	The Meatless Gourmet: Favorite Recipes from Around the World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recommended by an unreconstructed carnivore	Yes, vegetarian can also mean tasty, and it can also be easy to prepare.  This is a great cookbook with tremendous variety and flair.  There isn't a recipe to found here that isn't relatively easy to prepare.  I love cooking meat over flame as much as the next barbeque addict, but I love this cookbook enough to give it out to friends as a gift.  Forget about it being vegetarian, it just a good cookbook, period.  If I were limited to just five cookbooks in my kitchen library, this would probably be one of them.	2004-06-11
US	38548391	R1OYFFVACRKTP8	0785261028	620863197	The Enemy Within: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Schools, Faith, and Military	Books	2	56	135	N	N	Conservatives should hate this off-the-deep-end book	If I were a conservative, I would be appalled by the rantings (on air and in print) of Michael Savage.  Just as those on the right end of the spectrum hold up Michael Moore as the epitome of liberal excess, so too can liberals point to Michael Savage as evidence of everything that is wrong with the conservative ideology.  This should drive thoughtful conservatives absolutely crazy.  I suspect a lot of liberals enjoy listening to his radio show because it is the equivalent of a train wreck.  The man sounds at times like he is barely holding it together, and could go permanently over the edge at any moment.<br />That having been said, the book simply does not have the careening lunacy that makes his radio show repugnant yet compelling.  His non-stop chatter does not translate well to the printed page --- instead it comes across more badly organized &amp; rambling than anything else.  He has a difficult time concisely framing his socio/political arguments, despite having written quite a few books before this.  Compare this to the similary-oriented Ann Coulter, who employs her legal background to great effect when laying out her thesis.<br />Similarly, when it comes to providing citations for his assertions, Savage comes up short.  Authors like Hannity &amp; Coulter may be very selective in what they cite, but the citations nonetheless are there for the reader to examine.  Savage tends to be more anecdotal in nature --- you may get a citation to back up an assertion, but you are just as likely to be left with vague allusions.<br />I am not sure exactly what his point is, other than he seems to hate an awful lot of people, or at least claims to.  I suspect this is just a way of promoting the show.  Does he truly believe everything he is saying, or is he just an entertainer with a great schtick?  Your guess is as good as mine.  I cannot imagine that manufacturing that kind of anger simply to boost your ratings can be good for your overall mental health.  Nonetheless, it can get pretty hilarious at times, especially for liberals, who also can expect to enjoy this book immensely.an get pretty hilarious at times, especially for liberals, who also can expect to enjoy this book immensely.	2004-06-04
US	38548391	R1RCDU3ZK5XOXP	039541685X	537283254	The Second World War	Books	3	34	127	N	N	Sir Winston spins history &amp; covers his derriere	It amazes me that this collection of wartime memoirs continues to be held up as an example of Great History &amp; Great Literature.  I hope the tendency to do so becomes less &amp; less commonplace as a new generation that never knew Churchill comes to the fore.  It seems as though two or three generations, both British and American, becames members of the First Church of Saint Winston, and Saint Winston casts a long shadow.  To question his competence or motives was simply taboo for years &amp; years.  Only recently have scholars dared to impugn Churchill's memory.<br />As to the veracity of the history, I can only say that it is as good as most memoirs.  Of course, memoirs by their very nature are suspect &amp; unreliable as historical source material, and Churchill is no more guilty of spinning history than have been countless other writers of memoirs.  Churchill made an entire career out promoting himself through writing in the years leading up to his stint with the Admirality.  Later, he would devote his energies to dressing up his late father's reputation for posterity in a wholly unobjective biography/hagiography, and then put his own unique spin on Britain's role in winning World War II (which was of course, Churchill tells us, due to his own great leadership).<br />Suffice it to say, reading these books is essential to any serious study of World War II, but only in concert with other, more objective works.  However, anyone who thinks this is great writing has to be out of his mind!  For those who don't know, Churchill wrote exactly like he delivered speeches in Parliament as a young man.  Parliamentary speaking during the late Victorian &amp; Edwardian eras was something of an art form, which very much emphasized style over substance.  The ability to expound at length, displaying mastery over the language, could make or break the oratorical career of a young MP.  Whether or not you were actually saying anything substantial was truly beside the point; Churchill embraced this approach and adhered to it for the rest of his days, both in his speeches and his writings.  Why describe an event in one page when you can just as easily do it in ten pages, asks Sir Winston.  His prose flows effortlessly, page after page after page, not a grammatical error to be found.  It is written beautifully, but it is not beautiful writing --- it is simply self-indulgence.  Personally, I find his rather prolix stylings to be hard to endure, but I guess (for the time being) I am in the minority.  I guess we will see how things change in the next twenty years or so.ill embraced this approach and adhered to it for the rest of his days, both in his speeches and his writings.  Why describe an event in one page when you can just as easily do it in ten pages, asks Sir Winston.  His prose flows effortlessly, page after page after page, not a grammatical error to be found.  It is written beautifully, but it is not beautiful writing --- it is simply self-indulgence.  Personally, I find his rather prolix stylings to be hard to endure, but I guess (for the time being) I am in the minority.  I guess we will see how things change in the next twenty years or so.	2004-06-02
US	38548391	RQWQBQ1G44XY	0316544914	977998391	One Brief Shining Moment: Remembering Kennedy	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Lightweight hero worship	As Manchester is wont to do, he waxes poetic about historical figures he has put up on pedastals.  If you are assembling a library devoted to the Camelot myth, this book will be essential to your collection.  However, if you are looking for a useful historical examination of JFK, this book will prove to be largely useless.  Richard Reeves' &quot;Profile in Power,&quot; in print for almost 10 years now, shows that one can avoid hero worship while also avoiding character assissination, and is infinitely more useful to the reader than this fluff.  Robert Dallek's far more recent &quot;An Unfinished Life&quot; is also to be recommended far above this.<br />As Manchester now sheds the mortal coil, one can see that his books on Churchill, MacArthur &amp; Kennedy say a lot more about Manchester than they ever did about their respective subjects.  This is a man who seemed to need to have heroes to worship, and he worshipped them most uncritically.  He also made a lot of money stoking the fires of hero-worship along the way.  However, in the long term it does not make for good history, and as a historian Manchester is rather lacking.  I suspect that in another generation, he will virtually forgotten by serious students of history.	2004-06-02
US	38548391	R20G95E1T036UO	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Longwinded & in desperate need of rigorous editing	Rowling comes from that fine tradition of prolix British authors such as Tolkien & Churchill, none of whom ever met a modifier they didn't like.  These authors firmly ascribe to the philosophy, \\"why use one page to describe a scene when you can do it in 10 pages?\\"  Some people think that the never-ending stream of prose represents great compositional skill & mastery of the language.  Believe me, any graduate student can pad a seminar paper as skillfully as Rowling has Books 4 & 5, but the graduate student is writing to a different audience.<br />What is going on here?  I am guessing that because of the success of the series, Rowling has been allowed to run amok, and no editor has the nerve to rein in a money-making rogue elephant.  Unfortunately, it appears that Rowling has some difficulty sustaining a coherent narrative over such a long period of time.  I can only imagine what Books 6 & 7 will weigh in at, but it wouldn't surprise me if they end up being 1000-1200 pages apiece.  The narrative will only collapse under the weight of a book that long, and would ruin a series that got off to a good start.  If Rowling is interested in the quality of her work and not simply in raking in the cash, she needs to understand that more is not necessarily better.	2004-06-02
US	38548391	R36R8W6YW4M2OP	0399226907	907291850	The Very Hungry Caterpillar	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perennial favorite	While on occasion I can persuade the youngster to read Michael Holt's \\"Rise & Fall of the American Whig Party\\" with me, she seems to prefer the caterpillar.  Who am I to argue?  I would have been disappointed if someone hadn't given us this book when she was born, and it remains one of my guilty pleasures, I suppose.  We got an extremely cute onesie to go along with the book as well.	2004-05-28
US	38548391	R32IJWGNM3ITPO	0789454017	931036190	Jumbo Animal Shaped Board Book: Kitten	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fun book	Our daughter likes this book quite a bit, especially when the real cats come swarming all over us during reading time.  Trying to get the real cats to reenact the adventures of Pepper & Pickle is perhaps not the best idea I have ever had, although Helen appeared to be amused.	2004-05-28
US	38548391	R5D4L2WW0N5IL	0152009868	508474047	Feathers for Lunch	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Continues to be a favorite	Entertaining, colorful, informative --- what's not to like?  I have to admit, however, that I feel sorry for the cat.	2004-05-28
US	38548391	R3Q6WS6JPCNVMH	0807113735	284311811	Alexander H. Stephens of Georgia: A Biography (Southern Biography Series)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Good study on Stephens and all his contradictions	Alexander Stephens is the classic example of the Southern Whig, and shows why the Whig Party ultimately foundered on the rocks of slavery and sectionalism.  While Stephens was devoted to Whig principles and the preservation of Union (like many other leading figures in the Confederate government, he was opposed to secession), he nonetheless rigidly opposed any perceived infrigement on Southern rights, as he viewed them.  These two impulses within Stephens were of course mutually exclusive; like most other Southern Whigs, he was never able to reconcile the principles to which he was devoted.<br />It is when examining Stephen's amazing attempts to rationalize his actions &amp; justify them to himself that Schott's book is at its best.  Much like Jefferson Davis, Stephens was obsessed with being right and with taking the moral high ground, and he devoted an amazing amount of energy in attempting to defend his positions, perhaps to others but I believe mostly to himself.  Of course, Stephens was in the thick of every controversy in Congress in the 1850's, so the reader gets to watch him, along with the rest of the US, get swept along to the inevitable.<br />A reader expecting a Civil War history will be disappointed.  Stephens, despite being Vice President of the CSA, played only the most marginal of roles during the war.  His role in the post-war South is similarly marginal, distinguished only by his role in helping to foster the Lost Cause and coining the phrase &quot;War Between the States.&quot;<br />The best section of the book deals with Stephens in Congress in the 1840's and 1850's, but like another reviewer has stated, the events of those times are not discussed in much detail, other than how they had an impact on Stephens.  That having been said, I found Schott's discussion of the controversy surrounding the Wilmot Proviso to be as cogently framed as anything I have read.  Schott also does a good job capturing the feeling of a country that has lost control &amp; is careening towards catastrophe.<br />This is about the only recent full-length treatment of Stephens that I know of, and generally is pretty good and well-recommended.  It also contains an excellent bibliography that will provide you with other good source material.is careening towards catastrophe.<br />This is about the only recent full-length treatment of Stephens that I know of, and generally is pretty good and well-recommended.  It also contains an excellent bibliography that will provide you with other good source material.	2004-05-21
US	38548391	R1NMTX4TPIPUNZ	155832125X	152571860	Paul Kirk's Championship Barbecue Sauces: 175 Make-Your-Own Sauces, Marinades, Dry Rubs, Wet Rubs, Mops and Salsas (Non)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent and indispensable!	This great little book covers every aspect of preparation for barbeque.  If you think barbeque is nothing more than tossing a few burgers on the grill, this book will open up for you a myriad of possibilities.  Even experienced cooks can find plenty of good suggestions from which they can develop their own rubs, sauces &amp; mops.  I have the most fun putting together my own recipes based on his suggestions.  If you aren't interested in devoting that much energy to perfecting your slow-cooking, stick with the recipes, which display an impressive variety.  It doesn't hurt that this book is extremely affordable.  I cannot recommend it enough.	2004-05-21
US	38548391	R2A2DQREA8QTSD	089815815X	343432020	Charlie Trotter's Desserts	Books	2	9	26	N	N	Really, what is the point here?	Get serious people, there is no way in a million years that most of us would ever successfully assemble one of these over-the-top recipes presented in this book.  The extravagence displayed here is totally off the deep end, and is beyond the means or talents of most cooks, so why market this cookbook in the first place?  Only other professional chefs would be capable of pulling it off, but they are also capable of making up their own fabulous recipes without Charlie Trotter's help.<br />Supposedly, we are to &quot;draw inspiration&quot; from these recipes.  What a load of crap.  I could take a second-year violin student, throw the sheet music for Paganini's 24 Caprices at him, and tell him to draw inspiration from the music, even if he couldn't hope ever to play it.  What is the point of that, other than to frustrate a person?<br />This is nothing more than ridiculous self-indulgence on the part of another celebrity chef who apparently doesn't give a damn about we lesser beings who are simply trying to put a nice meal on the table.	2004-05-20
US	38548391	R1CBVN7OA4KEND	0894806122	940039439	The Grains Cookbook	Books	3	6	16	N	N	Tasty food if you are trying to kill yourself	I would guess anyone looking for a cookbook on grains would be thinking of healthy recipes that are also tasty.  Well, you have come to the wrong cookbook.  Make no mistake about it, the recipes are pretty delicious, but if I made a regular habit out of serving these butter &amp; cream laden artery-cloggers at dinner, I would be slowly eating myself to death.  To echo the earlier reviewer, look elsewhere for healthy recipes.<br />The 3 stars represent a combined rating.  Because the recipes are tasty &amp; pretty easy to prepare, I give the book 5 stars.  Because of the utter lack of healthy recipes, despite the title leading you to believe otherwise, I give it 1 star.<br />Forewarned is forearmed.  Enjoy these recipes, but don't overdo it.	2004-05-20
US	38548391	R28YWYX5KT1BU2	1580082505	144963589	Charlie Trotter Cooks at Home	Books	4	6	9	N	N	As close as you can get to an easy Trotter cookbook	Considering the unworldly nature of Trotter's other cookbooks, it is a wonder he could dumb it down as much as he could for this cookbook.  Although this is far and away the most accessible of his books, nonetheless it is not intended for a novice cook.  Most of the recipes are within the realm of possibility, and some are actually pretty basic.  For a change, the recipes won't make you want to launch the book across the room in frustration.  One wonders why Trotter can't do more books like these rather than indulging in the culinary delusions masquerading as cookbooks.	2004-05-20
US	38548391	R1X9NILHSSIY48	0807118257	937645173	Tainted Breeze: The Great Hanging at Gainesville, Texas 1862	Books	5	13	19	N	N	An unsettling story of what can happen in a power vacuum	Books like this should be required reading for libertarians who think that if you just removed government from peoples' lives, that everything would just sort of work itself out for the best.  This would also be good reading for any Southern apologists who would argue that the Confederacy just wanted to be left in peace and that the war was all about Yankee aggression.<br /><br />The story of this book is what happens when central authority breaks down and people are left to their own devices.  When people take the law into their own hands, they tend to do what furthers their own interests.  In this case, the interests lay primarily with the Confederate sympathizers in the Gainesville region of Texas, who proceeded to take about 40 Unionists and execute them during October 1862.  Not coincidentally, many of the Unionists and Confederates had other bones of contention between them, and these hangings settled a number of scores unrelated to Civil War itself.  Some men faced reprisals, but in large part most of those who participated never were brought to any sort of justice.<br /><br />This is a cautionary tale, especially in these times when civil liberties seem to discarded all too easily in favor of national security.  The Unionists, though few had actually spoken out against the Confederacy (some were not even Unionists!), were charged with treason & conspiracy to insurrection.  Under the guise of protecting the security of the region, the suspects were rushed to justice & summarily executed.  These were all people, on both sides,  who had been model citizens for the most part only a few years previously.<br /><br />Events like this were not restricted to North Texas.  Out in frontier communities, a lot of people took advantage of the breakdown of authority to settle scores with their enemies, often under the guise of protecting the security of their region.  After reading a book such as this, one is left with a very unsettled view of man's capacity for lawlessness, even among the most respectable of citizens, if given a chance to break the law without consequence.  It has happened before, and it could happen again.s, even among the most respectable of citizens, if given a chance to break the law without consequence.  It has happened before, and it could happen again.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R1071CT61FEA96	094259729X	390824563	States Rights Gist: A South Carolina General of the Civil War	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Interesting little book about a general with a strange name	If not for his name (yes that was his real name), I rather doubt that States Rights Gist would be remembered today.  He was one of the fatalities at the Battle of Franklin, which had more than its fair share of Confederate general officers killed or wounded.  It ended a brief military career which had been moderately distinguished if not outstanding.<br />Why only 3 stars?  Simply put, the subject matter is obscure, even for the most devoted Civil War enthusiast, and I cannot really imagine how the man's rather short life merited a book.  I only came across the book because it was a History Book Club selection.  It is so specialized that only a select few would ever seek it out.  The fact that no other reviews have been written on it bears this out.  It isn't a bad book, just maybe an unnecessary one.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R1YYA9UIRH6ECA	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	23	36	N	N	Not pseudohistory, but as close as you can get to it	When writing an Op/Ed column, one does not really have to be concerned with having one's facts straight, since of course the column usually concern's one's personal assessment of current events.  For example, if Ann Coulter wants to call moderate Republicans like Arlen Spector & Michael Bloomberg Democrats only pretending to be Republicans --- well, who can argue with her opinion on that?  There are no specific facts that will prove or disprove that statement; agree or disagree with her, Ann Coulter is clearly in her element when it comes to opining.<br /><br />However, with \\"Treason,\\" she has ventured into the perilous territory of writing history (and whether she likes it or not, that is exactly what she is doing), and history is an academic discipline which adheres to certain standards of scholarship.  Those who fail adhere to those standards (such as Afrocentrists & Holocaust deniers) are often known as pseudohistorians, who are presenting a deliberately distorted picture of history in order to further a specific ideological agenda.  Ann Coulter may not be on the same order as David Irving, but there are times she comes pretty damned close.<br /><br />Sean Hannity did the same thing in \\"Deliver Us From Evil,\\" when he presented a laughably outdated assessment of Neville Chamberlain's appeasement policy, an assessment so easily disproven by the historical record that Hannity came across as a bumbling amateur.  Coulter, no doubt as a result of her legal training, is much more canny.  Her facts, in and of themselves, are meticulously researched and would be difficult to disprove.  But does this mean that she paints an accurate picture of history?<br /><br />A fair synopsis of the Coulter argument would be:<br />1) There were communist spies well-placed in the US government, proven by the now-declassified Venona cables.  Liberals denied that there was a high level of communist espionage taking place.<br />2) Senator McCarthy pursued communists in the State Department & the US Army, and for his efforts was destroyed by the liberals.<br />3) Liberals and Democrats, having been accessories to massive communist infiltration and having destroyed the most prominent anti-communist whistle-blower, then embarked on a path of aiding and abetting the enemies of the US down to the present day.<br /><br />Coulter is able to extrapolate almost all of this based on the fact that the Venona Cables prove what was long suspected --- that there were in fact communist operatives in place in the US government in the mid-1940's.  Coulter and her defenders would argue that the Venona Cables vindicate everything that McCarthy did; in fact they do no such thing.  The spies dealt with in the Venona Cables had either been arrested or had fled the country long before McCarthy began his activities.  Nearly a full decade separates the Venona Cables and McCarthy at the height of his activities --- to presume to connect one with the other without hard evidence requires a leap of faith and a lot of assumptions.  Responsible historians do not engage in leaps of faith.  If there were communists in the government during McCarthy's time (we don't know, since McCarthy failed to unmask a single one), they were different operatives entirely from the ones dealt with in the Venona Cables.  The most damning thing about the Venona Cables is that it shows that liberals greatly underestimated the extent of communist espionage within the US government, and that hardly constitutes treason.<br /><br />Coulter's argument also ignores the fact that it wasn't the liberals that failed to catch the various communists that got away, it usually was the FBI, led by the arch-anticommunist J. Edgar Hoover.  Hoover & the FBI were well aware of the spies mentioned in the Venona Cables for years, but let several get away scot-free.  How exactly did the liberals cause this?  Hoover also gave great support to McCarthy, despite the concerns of legitimate anti-espionage experts who believed that McCarthy, with his showboating and grandiose accusations, was deflecting attention from genuine communist operatives.  Recent scholarship has shown that McCarthy (with Hoover's support), not the liberals, probably did more long-term damage to the anti-espionage community than anyone else, by discrediting the anticommunist crusade.<br /><br />Coulter also ignores the fact that McCarthy was censured by a GOP-led Congress, and that a great number of Republicans (including Eisenhower) either distrusted or outright opposed McCarthy.  A great number of Republicans rode McCarthy's coattails because it was politically expedient --- when he overreached himself by taking on the US Army, these same Republicans took advantage of the opportunity to rid themselves of an increasingly embarrassing liability.  The Democrats never could have stopped McCarthy on their own, but you wouldn't know this from reading Coulter's book.<br /><br />The rest of Coulter's book is your typical partisan cherry-picking, which should come as no surprise.  Democratic administrations are universally condemned for bungling the Cold War, while the Republican administrations inevitably triumph.  Obviously a double standard is at work here.  If Nixon had been a Democrat, Coulter would have excoriated him for pulling out of Viet Nam, establishing relations with Red China, and cutting spending of defense.  Similarly, if Eisenhower & JFK had been of different parties, Coulter would have assigned the blame for the Bay of Pigs fiasco to Ike, since it was his administration that drew up the plan in the first place.  Of course, Reagan gets credit for ending the Cold War, even though the defense spending that brought the Soviets to their knees was merely a continuation of Carter's aggresive spending increases on defense.  Neither Carter nor Truman (who of course embarked on the policy of containment in the first place) receive anything other than ridicule and scorn.  The Bush, Clinton, and Bush years are not even worth discussing, as Coulter does not even attempt to maintain the guise of objectivity.<br /><br />One would hope that most people will appreciate that the historical record does not conform to Coulter's black-and-white view of the world.  I can only assume that with Republicans in control of both the White House & the Congress, Coulter has been forced to reach into the past to assault liberals and Democrats.  A Kerry victory in November would be a dream come true for Coulter, for it would mean that she could abandon the writing of history and go back to writing polemics against a Democratic president --- which really is her bread & butter anyway.  She would do well to leave the writing of history to those scholars who actually have some respect for the discipline.usations, was deflecting attention from genuine communist operatives.  Recent scholarship has shown that McCarthy (with Hoover's support), not the liberals, probably did more long-term damage to the anti-espionage community than anyone else, by discrediting the anticommunist crusade.    Coulter also ignores the fact that McCarthy was censured by a GOP-led Congress, and that a great number of Republicans (including Eisenhower) either distrusted or outright opposed McCarthy.  A great number of Republicans rode McCarthy's coattails because it was politically expedient --- when he overreached himself by taking on the US Army, these same Republicans took advantage of the opportunity to rid themselves of an increasingly embarrassing liability.  The Democrats never could have stopped McCarthy on their own, but you wouldn't know this from reading Coulter's book.    The rest of Coulter's book is your typical partisan cherry-picking, which should come as no surprise.  Democratic administrations are universally condemned for bungling the Cold War, while the Republican administrations inevitably triumph.  Obviously a double standard is at work here.  If Nixon had been a Democrat, Coulter would have excoriated him for pulling out of Viet Nam, establishing relations with Red China, and cutting spending of defense.  Similarly, if Eisenhower & JFK had been of different parties, Coulter would have assigned the blame for the Bay of Pigs fiasco to Ike, since it was his administration that drew up the plan in the first place.  Of course, Reagan gets credit for ending the Cold War, even though the defense spending that brought the Soviets to their knees was merely a continuation of Carter's aggresive spending increases on defense.  Neither Carter nor Truman (who of course embarked on the policy of containment in the first place) receive anything other than ridicule and scorn.  The Bush, Clinton, and Bush years are not even worth discussing, as Coulter does not even attempt to maintain the guise of objectivity.    One would hope that most people will appreciate that the historical record does not conform to Coulter's black-and-white view of the world.  I can only assume that with Republicans in control of both the White House & the Congress, Coulter has been forced to reach into the past to assault liberals and Democrats.  A Kerry victory in November would be a dream come true for Coulter, for it would mean that she could abandon the writing of history and go back to writing polemics against a Democratic president --- which really is her bread & butter anyway.  She would do well to leave the writing of history to those scholars who actually have some respect for the discipline.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R37CRQL358QSYD	0895261014	74442182	Shut Up and Sing: How Elites from Hollywood, Politics, and the UN Are Subverting America	Books	1	33	67	N	N	Badly organized, bordering on incoherence at times	There isn't much that Ingraham can contribute that other conservative pundits such as Coulter &amp; Hannity haven't already done.  I suspect that she is just trying to get her slice of the pie, but this book isn't going to do the trick.  Say what you will about Ann Coulter, but her writing is superior &amp; her arguments more cogently presented.  By comparison, Laura Ingraham comes off looking like a poor man's Ann Coulter with the haphazard nature of this book.  I cannot even imagine the most impassioned conservative being very enthusiastic about this.<br />Simply put, the book has a whole lot of superficial content about celebreties.  Big deal.  Barbara Streisand, James Woods --- really, I don't care what either one thinks.  I can make up my own mind about the issues.  At the same time, if I am entitled to express my opinion, why can't Alex Baldwin or Charlton Heston --- or for that matter, Laura Ingraham?  One could ask the question, what makes her more qualified to express an opinion than the &quot;elites&quot; of which she is so critical?  The only thing I ask is that if you are going to express an opinion, you at least do it coherently, and it is here that she largely fails.<br />Here's hoping that Laura gets a better ghost writer the next time around.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R3O5NOM80NPQXD	0295976098	5866333	Kirtland Cutter: Architect in the Land of Promise	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The first comprehensive study of Cutter's work	Almost everyone in Spokane recognizes the name of the architect Kirtland Cutter, who has been dead now for 65 years.  Spokane considers Cutter to be theirs, but his work and influence go far beyond the Inland Northwest.  For those people who say the TV-movie &quot;Rose Red&quot; a couple of years ago ---- yes, the house is real, not a stage set.  It is mansion called Thornewood located in Tacoma, and was designed by Cutter.  Over an almost 50-year career, Cutter designed homes, public buildings &amp; even bridges throughout the Pacific Northwest and down the coast of California, in a dazzling array of styles.  Yet, studies of his work have been sporadic at best, and the study of the man himself almost non-existent.<br />Henry Matthews has corrected all of this, with a biography and study of Cutter that is as close to comprehensive as you are bound to get after all of these years.  Matthews is a good writer and is able to explain architectural minutiae in a manner that will not leave laypeople confused or bored.  His 14 years of research on the subject have allowed him to compile a good list of all the Cutter projects (including houses and buildings no longer standing), including addresses.  If you were to believe every claim found in the Spokane classified ads, there must be about 20,000 &quot;Cutter homes&quot; in Spokane.  Being able to state that your for-sale house is a &quot;Cutter home&quot; adds a certain amount of cachet (not to mention a little extra value) to your home, so a lot of homeowners will claim a dubious Cutter pedigree.  This book will let you know, by and large, just what of Cutter's work remains standing.<br />If you are an enthusiast of Pacific Northwest history, this book comes highly recommended.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R1YRVPWLPK4CRL	0689113544	697815598	The Baby Chase	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Touching &amp; disturbing ---not the typical Kornheiser	Those people who know Tony Kornheiser only from his columns, radio show &amp; PTI will find this book's contents to be disconcerting in their very serious nature.  The story of a 30-something couple struggling with their marriage and childlessness, only to be given the opportunity to adopt a baby for the low low price of $15,000 (early 1980's dollars, no less) is filled with stress, agony, but ultimately concludes with the renewal of love, commitment &amp; hope.<br />For those of us who have struggled with childlessness (against all odds, my wife &amp; I succeeded in having a daughter last year), this story will hit a raw nerve.  The twelve days in the early 1980's where Tony &amp; Karril Kornheiser got their taste of the seamy world of Black Market babies, and how they ultimately made their decision, clearly left Tony with some unresolved emotions that probably made writing this book a form of therapy.  It is the only book-length nonfiction he has written.  It will disturb you, but it is worth reading.	2004-05-10
US	38548391	R2FU3TAKCZQWOV	0786711515	41090816	The Dark Horse: The Surprise Election and Political Murder of President James A. Garfield	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Well-written & riveting account	I first encountered the slow death of James Garfield while doing research on unrelated events taking place in the summer of 1881.  Reading through the microfilmed copies of several small-town Kansas newspapers, I kept seeing the weekly updates of the stricken president, and even though it wasn't part of the focus of my research at the time, I found myself drawn to the prolongued agony of a nation, as it watched its president slowly slip away.<br />The cruel irony of Garfield's death was that it was against all odds that he should have been dying in the White House in the first place, and of course that is what makes the whole story so interesting.  Ackerman does an excellent job setting the stage for the 1880 Republican convention (yes, once upon a time, party conventions really did matter), which was largely a struggle between several power blocs.<br />First and foremost was the struggle between Senators Roscoe Conkling & James Blaine, who had a mutual dislike rivalled by few other politicians (LBJ & Bobby Kennedy come to mind).  Blaine was seeking the presidency in his own right, and Conkling, having spent the last 4 years jousting with outgoing President Hayes, was angling to regain the White House (for a third term) for former president Grant.  Ackerman skillfully weaves a picture filled with wheeling & dealing --- the classic picture of a smoke-filled back room really has historical basis --- and shows how the forces of history sometimes take on a momentum of their own, and slip loose from the hands of even the most adroit political managers.<br />To surprise of all, Garfield got the nomination, and then had to face an election that turned out to be extremely close.  Through the campaign, more wheeling & dealing occurs, and Ackerman vividly illustrates the uncertain nominee attempting  to reach agreement with various truculent party bosses.  During this stage of the game, Garfield comes off looking very much like a politically clumsy neophyte, not equal to the challenges of the office.<br />What Garfield might have ultimately done as President we will never know, and thankfully Ackerman spares of the \\"what-if\\" brand of history at this point.  Garfield's only real victory of consequence during his brief term was the outmaneuvering of Roscoe Conkling regarding office nominations in New York.  Garfield's behavior during this episode can be interpreted as either standing firm on principle or mule-headed stubborness, and one can draw any number of conclusions on how this behavior might have played over 4 years.  His victory over Conkling was thought to be only the first of several battles for the control of the Republican Party.<br />Of course, the whole situation abruptly was thrown into chaos as Garfield is shot down, and not only fails to die quickly but actually for a time improves in health.  Truly this is the most sickening part of the whole book, as Ackerman describes in gory detail Garfield's eventual succumbing to infection, starvation & blood poisoning.  In a perverse way, Charles Guiteau was actually correct when he said he didn't actually kill Garfield.  The doctors with their germ-covered hands were ultimately more responsible for Garfield's demise than was Guiteau.<br />Ackerman's book is not just the story of Garfield; it is the story with several equally important characters --- Grant, Conkling, and Blaine.  Lurking in the shadows are two characters that suddenly assume great importance --- Chester Arthur & the strange little man, Charles Guiteau.  When Garfield is suddenly removed from the scene, the story does not simply end with him.  The other main characters are left behind to try and pick up the pieces and move on without him.  One is left with a much greater respect for Arthur after reading this book, as he is suddenly thrust, unprepared and under a cloud of suspicion & distrust, into the presidency.  Ackerman does not emphasize this, but Arthur actually knew for the last 3 years of his term that he wasslowly dying from Bright's Disease, but managed to conceal his ill health and still function effectively as president.<br />Overall, this is a lively account of a story that has more than its fair share of peaks and valleys.  Read in conjunction with Roy Morris' \\"Fraud of the Century,\\"  this book presents a very good picture of partisan politics and their sometimes unexpected consequences.slowly dying from Bright's Disease, but managed to conceal his ill health and still function effectively as president.<br />Overall, this is a lively account of a story that has more than its fair share of peaks and valleys.  Read in conjunction with Roy Morris' \\"Fraud of the Century,\\"  this book presents a very good picture of partisan politics and their sometimes unexpected consequences.	2004-05-07
US	38548391	R2RDT2F90TWIO5	080501389X	689898426	John Marshall: Definer of a Nation	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Complete picture of Marshall the man, not just the jurist	This is one of the best biographies I have read in recent years.  While Marshall is best remembered today as the great Chief Justice and the originator of the notion of judicial review, Smith very much shows that there was more to the man, both public &amp; private, than the few nuggets we all got in our Intro to American History classes.<br />In fact, the bulk of the book deals not with Marshall's 35 years on the bench, but with his other activities as a soldier, politician, diplomat and Secretary of State.  One is left with profound admiration for Marshall's political skills while in Congress and in the Cabinet.  As a moderate Federalist from Virginia, Marshall was in a tight spot, to say the least.  His state was increasingly dominated with Jeffersonian Republicans who had little trust for the man, but on the other hand, the High Federalists from New England were more than a little suspicious of any Virginian, even one of their own party.  Smith portrays a skillful politician &amp; deal-maker who is able to walk deftly between the two camps and actually managed to get a few things done.  One cannot help but wonder if the Federalist Party might have survived if Marshall had been at its helm or had been a Federalist candidate for president.<br />Marshall's time as a diplomat, spent in France during the years of the Directorate, also reveal him to be a canny negotiator who was more than equal to the task of dealing Talleyrand, the ultimate conniver of his time.  Despite his somewhat rustic origins, Marshall was quite capable of adapting to the surroundings of the most cosmopolitan city in Europe, but without yielding to the corruption expected by the French bureaucracy.<br />All of this work by Smith shows that Marshall did not enter the Chief Justice's chair as a blank slate --- in fact, he already had a lifetime's experience in a myriad of different professions, and this no doubt contributed in large part to his great influence on the Court's development.  I would suspect that his background is more impressive and varied than any of the Chief Justices that have succeeded him.<br />Unlike a lot of judicial histories, Smith does not get bogged down in the minutiae of the court decisions.  In fact, relatively little time is spent discussing the decisions themselves, except for those that truly could be considered definitive.  35 years of court decisions could easily have made this an unworkable biography for Smith, who spends more time examining how Marshall, using his experience as a diplomat &amp; legislator, was able to lead the court effectively and get it to render, for the most part, unanimous decisions.<br />Although Marshall &amp; Thomas Jefferson were well-known as cousins who had a very strong mutual dislike of each other, Smith does not beat the reader over the head with this fact.  Nor does Smith, despite his obvious partiality for Marshall, engage in excessive Jefferson-bashing.  If anything, he gives Jefferson the benefit of the doubt, particularly in regards to the 1805 impeachment of Justice Chase.  Smith regards the affair as being largely the making of rogue Congressional Republicans such as John Randolph of Roanoke (another cousin), although many historians believe that Jefferson had a much greater hand in instigating the affair.<br />The most Smith will criticize Jefferson on is his capacity for self-delusion, particularly where it concerned the Supreme Court.  Jefferson came to regard the Marshall Court as an instrument of the Federalists, despite the fact that 5 of the 7 justices were Republican appointees.  I find this to be an amusing parallel to modern-day criticism of the Court by some pundits, who view it as dominated by liberals --- despite the fact that 7 of the 9 justices have been appointed by Republican presidents.  Evidently, some things never change.<br />This would also be a useful book for those critics of the court who feel that justices are too politically involved these days.  A study of Court's history shows that rarely have the justices been political eunuchs, and certainly Marshall was no exception.  Many of his decisions on the court, although he was careful not to run amok with judicial authority, were calculated as parries to the thrusts to various political extremists such as Spencer Roane (who, like most of the states'-rights crowd, comes off quite badly in this book, as Smith portrays him as being hopelessly out of step with the nations' evolution).  Marshall as much as anyone was responsible for defining the notion that the federal government ultimately has authority over the respective states in national matters, a notion that would be put to the test a quarter century after Marshall's death.<br />Not only is this an informative book, but it is also very well-written and engaging.  Do not let the 700+ pages daunt you, as the narrative flows quite briskly and will not bog the reader down.  For most of us who know only know Marshall in connection with Marbury vs Madison, there is a lot more to the man than that --- this book will more than fill in the blank spaces.ourt's history shows that rarely have the justices been political eunuchs, and certainly Marshall was no exception.  Many of his decisions on the court, although he was careful not to run amok with judicial authority, were calculated as parries to the thrusts to various political extremists such as Spencer Roane (who, like most of the states'-rights crowd, comes off quite badly in this book, as Smith portrays him as being hopelessly out of step with the nations' evolution).  Marshall as much as anyone was responsible for defining the notion that the federal government ultimately has authority over the respective states in national matters, a notion that would be put to the test a quarter century after Marshall's death.<br />Not only is this an informative book, but it is also very well-written and engaging.  Do not let the 700+ pages daunt you, as the narrative flows quite briskly and will not bog the reader down.  For most of us who know only know Marshall in connection with Marbury vs Madison, there is a lot more to the man than that --- this book will more than fill in the blank spaces.	2004-05-05
US	38548391	R1PJJ9FGYHPR3A	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	1	27	44	N	N	Historical cherry-picking of the worst sort	In regards to the historical research in this book, I will give Sean Hannity the benefit of the doubt here.  It is possbible that he is honestly ignorant of the vast amounts of historical research of which he could have availed himself while writing this book, but he strikes me as being overall a pretty intelligent perceptive individual.  If one rules out base ignorance & stupidity as a cause, then one is left with only one other option:  Sean Hannity is deliberately and knowingly engaging in historical cherry-picking to forward his agenda.<br />Now, this may be just fine in a talk-radio format or forensics, where you put forth the data that best shores up your argument. However, when you venture into the field of history (and whether Hannity likes it or not, his book is as much a history as it is a discussion of current events), the academic discipline of history as we now practice it demands that certain standards of scholarship be met.  In this Hannity has failed abysmally.<br />Historical cherry-picking, of course, is the selective use of some facts (and the deliberate omission of others) to construct a historical record that (usually) conforms to pre-conceived ideological notions.  In more extreme cases (such as David Irving & other Holocaust deniers, for example) this is known as pseudohistory, where the actual history is totally re-written.  Holocaust deniers will latch on to specific data, which is proveable in and of itself (but is taken out of context), and from that selectively employed data, extrapolate that the Holocaust never happened.  Hannity of course comes nowhere near doing something that extreme, but his selectively interpretive history uses the same basic methodology as Holocaust deniers.<br />In particular, he uses as the basis for most of his arguments the spectre of appeasement, particularly Neville Chamberlain's policy of appeasement of Hitler in the 1938 Munich Pact.  Clearly Hannity has no knowledge of the current historical treatment of this event, or he simply chooses to ignore it.  Chamberlain's strategy has been significantly re-evaluated in recent years, and it is now quite apparent that Chamberlain, far from being the naive optimist, knew perfectly well that the Munich Pact would not avert war.  Chamberlain, aware that Britain was in no way prepared to launch a war on the continent, was actually buying time with the Munich Pact, time that allowed him to begin the rearmament of Britain for the war he knew was coming.<br />The reason Hannity brings up Chamberlain and appeasement is that he professes to believe that if Britain and France had just opened a can of whup-ass on the Nazis in 1938, the horrors of the subsequent global war might very well have been averted.  Unfortunately, it ignores the logistical realities:  neither France nor Britain was materially prepared to fight a prolonged war, and neither country had the means to get troops easily to the Sudetenland, which is where all the action was at.  When Hannity's argument is subjected to this sort of scrutiny (something he generally does not have to deal with on his radio show), it collapses in a heap.  Since it is in large part the basis of all of his subsequent arguments, the book as a whole falls apart.<br />Other cherry-picking can be written off to your standard-issue partisan interests.  Any resistance to a call to arms, when it comes from the Democrats or the (apparently monolithic) \\"liberals\\" is condemned universally by Hannity as further examples of \\"appeasement,\\" with its attendant results.  However, similar behavior by conservatives or the Republicans are either ignored (GOP isolationism from 1920 to just prior to World War II) or are deftly palmed off on the ineptitude of the Democrats (Reagan and the Iran-Contra Affair).<br />Again, tactics of this sort may be acceptable in talk radio or in a debate format, but historians have worked hard to establish firm standards of scholarship within the discipline.  If Hannity were to submit his appeasement argument as a master's thesis, for example, he would be eaten alive.  If this something he is unable to do, perhaps Hannity should restrict his activities to talk radio and columns on only the most current affairs, which is more suited to his methodology.  However, when he ventures into writing history, Hannity should be held to the same standards as a legitimate, professional historian.bmit his appeasement argument as a master's thesis, for example, he would be eaten alive.  If this something he is unable to do, perhaps Hannity should restrict his activities to talk radio and columns on only the most current affairs, which is more suited to his methodology.  However, when he ventures into writing history, Hannity should be held to the same standards as a legitimate, professional historian.	2004-04-29
US	38548391	RTTHNXMHIVRAW	1400063272	927485838	Trump: How to Get Rich	Books	1	35	40	N	N	Greatest narcissist of our time spews laughable bromides	There is nothing here that you haven't already read in Trump's previous self-admiration tomes.  What does Trump know about getting rich anyway?  He was born rich --- unless he he is giving advice to enterprising sperm everywhere, there is no point in his presuming to be an authority in this area.<br />Other than Trump blowing his own horn, there is precious little practical advice to be found, just hackneyed generalized advice.  Buy low, sell high --- I guess you could call that advice, but what can you do with that?<br />Raising this to an even more absurd level is the news this month that Trump's company is bogged down under almost 2 billion dollars in debt.  Evidently Trump's advice doesn't include &quot;don't leverage yourself excessively&quot; and &quot;learn from your earlier mistakes.&quot;  If most of us truly conducted our financial affairs in the style of the Donald, we would be living out of a box on a heat grate.<br />One step towards financial success would be to check this book out of the library, rather than wasting money buying it at the store.  Better yet, just sit down in the library for maybe 30 minutes and skim through the book without checking it out.  It isn't as though you will be missing any hidden nuggets.	2004-04-14
US	38548391	RM6GZQNNTMLA9	0312070861	799928793	Swift Justice: Murder and Vengeance in a California Town	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Definitely swift, possibly just, certainly very troubling	I must admit, I have a biased viewpoint.  As a descendant of not one, not two, but three people who were summarily executed without the benefit of due process (one was most probably guilty --- the other two probably were not), accounts such as the San Jose Lynching tend to rub a raw nerve with me.<br />In a brisk, wonderfully written narrative, the author sets the stage and lets the events unfold to their unsettling conclusion.  Along the way, he makes some interesting points about mob mentality, vigilante justice, and the abication of moral authority that our leaders on occasion display.<br />Most troubling for me are the points raised at the end of the book.  The abrupt dispatch of the two murder suspects meant that other leads never were followed up on by the authorities.  The author makes it clear that the two men were most certainly guilty --- they confessed to the crime, and the circumstantial evidence certainly pointed towards their guilt.  However --- most troubling of all --- the circumstantial evidence also pointed quite strongly to additional men being involved in Brooke Hart's kidnapping &amp; murder.  Did other men get away with murder because the San Jose mob was too impatient to wait for a trial?  The author does not beat us over the head with his theories, but he correctly points out that, because there never was a trial, a lot of questions that needed answering went unaddressed.<br />Certainly, it is a cautionary tale for those who believe that the justice system is too sluggish, and that we should just &quot;line 'em up against the wall and shoot 'em.&quot;  Maybe some time has been saved --- maybe justice has been served fully.  But you can't confidently state it as fact.	2004-04-07
US	38548391	R3DLRB5LTQEGNS	0809321572	131749387	Reminiscences of a Soldier's Wife: An Autobiography (Shawnee Classics)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Hilariously worshipful &amp; unobjective in every sense	If any historical researcher needed an example of a primary source that is manifestly unreliable, then he/she could cite this memoir, which cannot be trusted in any sense.<br />If the reader is not familiar with the career of &quot;Black Jack&quot; Logan, one would quickly assume from Mrs. General Logan's gushy, worshipful prose that General Logan was due to be canonized any time now.<br />Mrs. General Logan conveniently glosses over most of Logan's career as a political boss, which had more than a few squalid moments.  She would also have the reader believe that her husband's military career was more distinguished than in fact it was.  While Logan was one of the better &quot;political generals&quot; in the Union Army (not a rank incompetent such as Banks or Butler), he was nonetheless removed from command by Sherman's request because he was believed to be prioritizing politics over military affairs.<br />If the reader picks this book up believing it contains a gripping account of the tough life in the field --- well, at times it does, but it also contains in equal parts accounts of being received at the Imperial German court, and rubbing elbows with all the famous people that General Logan knew over the years.  Mrs. General Logan clearly enjoys life as the wife of a Very Important Person, and enjoys recounting details of moving in selected circles.<br />All of this riveting information is presented in typically gaudy 19th-century prose, which is made even more hilarious by Mrs. General Logan's starry-eyed regard for her saintly, model of perfection husband.  The book can get pretty funny at time, because it is simply so over-the-top, but as a historical resource, it should be considered almost worthless.	2004-04-05
US	38548391	R14EXMTQ125B6A	0743223799	717864257	Gentleman Revolutionary: Gouverneur Morris, the Rake Who Wrote the Constitution	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Well-written, but as typical for Brookhiser, very brief	It is nice to see a new biography on a relatively neglected Founding Father, who has been portrayed (when mentioned at all) in other histories I have read as more or less a light-weight Good-Time Charlie.  Clearly a lightweight wouldn't have been entrusted to draft the Constitution, yet Morris has been left in the corner to gather dust for the last two centuries.<br />So a new biography is certainly welcome.  It is a well-written, brisk narrative, and is enjoyable enough to read, but I cannot bring myself to give it 4 stars, and it certainly doesn't merit 5 stars.  Simply put, it is just too damned short!  Not being well-acquainted with Morris, I would have hoped for a more thorough treatment, but in many ways, Morris' portrait remains half-completed in Brookhiser's hands.<br />I realize that Brookhiser is attempting to make his series on the Founding Fathers (incidentally, why only Federalists so far?) accessible to the general public, but as another reviewer observed, if you don't already have a good background in this period of history, you may be more confused than enlightened by the sparse detail in Brookhiser's treatment.<br />In this book's case, one needs to be well-versed in the history of both Revolutionary America AND Revolutionary France.  Morris' six years in France (1789-1795; Morris didn't return to the US until late 1798) gave him a unique perspective among the Founding Fathers (Monroe didn't arrive until 1794, nor Marshall until 1797) of watching the French Revolution devolve into the Reign of Terror.  In fact, Brookhiser devotes more space in his book to these six years, and if you don't know the difference between a Jacobin, a Girondist or a Montagnard you may be out of luck.<br />This is not to say that there isn't some good information in this book, especially where Morris' personal life is concerned.  The man certainly is not boring.  However, from Morris' return to the US in 1798 until his death 1816, it feels as though Brookhiser is rushing towards the finish, trying to wrap up a few loose ends as he goes along.  The period from 1798-1816 deals mostly with Morris' family life; even though Morris led the last charges of Federalism in the Senate from 1800-1803, it receives only passing notice from Brookhiser.<br />A little over 200 pages is just too condensed to be of any real use to anyone.  One doesn't need a weighty, 900-page tome to do Morris justice, but would it have killed Brookhiser to have expanded this biography to maybe 350 pages or so?owards the finish, trying to wrap up a few loose ends as he goes along.  The period from 1798-1816 deals mostly with Morris' family life; even though Morris led the last charges of Federalism in the Senate from 1800-1803, it receives only passing notice from Brookhiser.<br />A little over 200 pages is just too condensed to be of any real use to anyone.  One doesn't need a weighty, 900-page tome to do Morris justice, but would it have killed Brookhiser to have expanded this biography to maybe 350 pages or so?	2004-03-27
US	38548391	ROY1DBJF138YY	0743223861	516879829	Fraud of the Century: Rutherford B. Hayes, Samuel Tilden, and the Stolen Election of 1876	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Our slime-covered history	After reading this, you will want to take a shower, because this is one slimy, grubby tale of politics of the lowest order.  If you are someone who needs to know who the good guys and bad guys are, then you should avoid this book.  Virtually everyone emerges from this story tarnished.<br />On first glance, this is the story of a stolen election.  Samuel Tilden won the popular vote by 260,000 votes and initially appeared to have a comfortable margin of victory in the electoral college.  By the time the dust settled, the votes in 3 states had been creatively interpreted and the Twelth Amendment of the Constitution circumvented to give Rutherford B. Hayes the presidency.  It would seem to be simple enough: the Democrats are the victimized good guys and the corrupt Republicans were the nasty bad guys.<br />Of course, nothing is as simple as it seems.  As Morris delves more deeply into the subterreanean political strata, he shows that the story is actually multiple stories of various power blocs pursuing their respective goals in some rather unsavory ways.  Were the carpetbag Republican governments in the South maintaining their power through fraud & corruption?  Certainly they were --- however, the Southern Democrats were also expanding their power base through violence and intimidation of black voters.  Of course, Republicans were also not above using the same intimidation tactics, sometimes against apostate black voters who had the temerity to support the Democrats.  One is left with a bad taste in one's mouth in regards to all parties involved.<br />Morris also draws the distinction between party politics at the national and local levels, and illustrates that different levels of the same party very often have mutually exclusive goals.  A case in point would be the Democratic Party in South Carolina & Louisiana, which was more concerned with ending Federal occupation in both states than with getting Tilden elected.  The local Democrats of both states were willing to deal with either Hayes or Tilden to achieve that goal.  Morris explicitly denies that Hayes cut a specific deal with Southern Democrats, but through vague platform statements and soothing statements through his lieutenants, Hayes was able to reassure Democrats in Louisiana & South Carolina that they need not worry about a Federal presence in their respective states for too much longer.  Democratic leaders in the South also knew that protesting too violently against the election results might result in renewed Federal occupation throughout the South --- something, considering that the Civil War had ended only 11 years before, that they were none too eager to provoke.  The Democrats took the most pragmatic approach, even though it probably cost Tilden the election.<br />The Republicans, on the other hand, demonstrated that as a party they were willing to abandon Southern Republicans, particularly those who were black, to their fates in order to maintain possession of the White House.  The 1876 elections signalled the end of Reconstruction, although the Grant administration had been slowly disengaging for the last two years approximately.  The Republicans of the South were abandoned for the greater good of the party, or so the Republican power brokers convinced themselves.<br />As for the candidates themselves, they do not emerge too covered in slime, but they are hardly unblemished.  While Hayes was not complicit in his lieutenants' scheming, Morris observes, \\"Whether he should have known about them in the first place is another question altogether.\\"  Tilden is similary compromised, as his lieutenants (albeit without his knowledge) attempted to bribe various officials into producing a favorable result for their candidate.<br />Thankfully, Morris does not overindulge in the \\"what if\\" brand of speculative history.  Would Tilden have made a good President?  Perhaps, but his political instincts failed him during the election crisis.  If he had been more actively involved and had courted the necessary people (as Hayes did), Tilden might have been able to produce a favorable result.  As it was, he withdrew from view and remained passive throughout the crisis, allowing the momentum to slip away.  Would Tilden have been as passive as president.  I am inclined to think that he would have been as unremarkable as Hayes.  Hayes, for his part, entered the White House under a cloud which never totally left him during his one term.  What he left posterity is thoroughly uninspiring.<br />As a whole, this book is recommended reading for anyone who thinks that US history is less squalid than some Banana Republic.  It is important to keep in mind that 4 presidential elections (1800, 1824, 1876 & 2000) were decided in rather controversial fashion.  At least one other election (1888) was decided by fraud, and one can also look at other elections (1960, for example) with a healthy dose of skepticism.  Yes folks, it can happen here, and it has several times.  If nothing else, the election of 1876 should serve as a warning against complacency.nd had courted the necessary people (as Hayes did), Tilden might have been able to produce a favorable result.  As it was, he withdrew from view and remained passive throughout the crisis, allowing the momentum to slip away.  Would Tilden have been as passive as president.  I am inclined to think that he would have been as unremarkable as Hayes.  Hayes, for his part, entered the White House under a cloud which never totally left him during his one term.  What he left posterity is thoroughly uninspiring.<br />As a whole, this book is recommended reading for anyone who thinks that US history is less squalid than some Banana Republic.  It is important to keep in mind that 4 presidential elections (1800, 1824, 1876 & 2000) were decided in rather controversial fashion.  At least one other election (1888) was decided by fraud, and one can also look at other elections (1960, for example) with a healthy dose of skepticism.  Yes folks, it can happen here, and it has several times.  If nothing else, the election of 1876 should serve as a warning against complacency.	2004-02-25
US	38548391	R1F5XLITYKD7IR	0761526463	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	1	73	143	N	N	Revisionism of the most amateurish sort	Setting aside for the moment the validity of DiLorenzo's thesis, all I can say is that this is one of the most intellectually flaccid books I have ever had the misfortune to read.  DiLorenzo has been rightfully excoriated for the multitude of misquotes & erroneous citations.  Based on his shoddy scholarship (a graduate school student would be drummed out of the program if he or she presented research this sloppy), his book is totally lacking in credibility.  How anyone can be giving this mess 5 stars is a complete mystery to me.<br /><br />There is another mystery that most reviewers haven't addressed.  DiLorenzo trots out the old \\"states' rights\\" argument while simultaneously condemning Lincoln for his repeated violations of the US Constitution.  The implication is, of course, that the pro-slavery secessionists were those who were being true to the Constitution.  In the face of the historical record, the idea that someone can seriously make that argument is absurd.  The states' rights school of thought conveniently ignores the fact that the various tactics employed by the slave states totally violated the doctrine of states' rights.  The slave states routinely censored the public mail to intercept abolitionist materials; the pro-slavery bloc in Congress violated the 1st Amendment for 8 years by denying citizens their right to petition & freedom of speech; the pro-slavery group in a later Congress then proceeded to ram the Fugitive Slave Act down the throats of the northern states.  If the Fugitive Slave Act isn't a violation of the states' rights doctrine, then nothing is!<br /><br />Most of the fire-eaters in the south seemed to have no trouble reconciling themselves to these attacks on the Constitution, as long as their interests (ie, the preservation of slavery, not states' rights) were being served.  To his credit, John C. Calhoun had a difficult time with the censoring of mail & the gag rule --- he never was able to achieve an intellectual rationalization of these contradictions.<br /><br />DiLorenzo also contends that Lincoln engineered an unneccessary war in order to implement his hidden agenda, a latter-day Whig Party agenda which emphasized the increased centralization of government.  As a good libertarian, DiLorenzo is outraged by the Whig's and their American System.  Once again, the implication is that the South was on the side of decentralized government, and once again, one is left wondering exactly what US history DiLorenzo has been reading.<br /><br />Which two US presidents prior to Lincoln were most responsible for the centralization of the government?  Surprise, they were not Whigs.  With the Louisiana Purchase, Thomas Jefferson (that libertarian hero) did more than any president of his era to centralize government (think about, you libertarians --- all that territory, under the direct control of the FEDERAL government, not the states; all of those territorial governors, appointed by the PRESIDENT; if that isn't centralization, what is?).  The other great centralizer was Andrew Jackson, who massively increased the size of the federal government bureaucracy (and let us not forget the nullification controversy --- Jackson was prepared to OCCUPY South Carolina!  Not exactly an apostle of states' rights.).  Both were Southern slave-owners, neither was a Northern Whig, and they did as much as Lincoln to centralize the government, but DiLorenzo reserves his venom for Lincoln alone.  He is quite adept at keeping the historical facts from getting in the way of his polemic.<br /><br />Overall, this is just a pathetic effort at putting forth a stale states' rights argument.  Ironically DiLorenzo is so sloppy with his research and presentation that he only undermines his argument.  The likes of Calhoun & Alexander Stephens must be spinning in their graves at the disservice done them by DiLorenzo.  Fortunately, this book isn't nearly as long as a well-researched book would be, so the nausea it induces will subside allthat much sooner.that much sooner.	2004-01-21
US	38548391	R2LX73BOVWXEXR	0700606416	400053665	Rutherford B. Hayes: Warrior and President	Books	4	12	15	N	N	The best Hayes biography available --- such as it is	I have to give Professor Hoogenboom credit for giving it the old college try.  He does his very best to portray Hayes as an effective politician and as a real reformer.  Unfortunately, the case he makes is simply not convincing.<br />To be fair to Hayes, this is not to say that his life was uninteresting.  This biography shows that Hayes was not just some non-entity that was tapped for the GOP nomination by the power-brokers of the party, but that he had a pretty interesting life (a Civil War record of real consequence, plus an impressive career in Ohio politics) prior to ascending to the presidency.<br />Unfortunately, the only reason we are reading a Hayes biography is because he became President, not because he was a Civil War general or a governor of Ohio.  It is when dealing with Hayes' record as President that Hoogenboom fails to persuade the reader of Hayes' impact &amp; commitment to reform.<br />For one thing, Hoogenboom pulls way too many punches when it comes to the 1876 elections.  He equivocates; he is not willing to say that the elections were on the up-and-up, but neither is he willing to concede that Hayes was involved in what was a truly stolen election.  Anyone who thinks the 2000 election was stolen ought to take a good look at 1876.  Like it or not, Hayes was complicit in this, and his credibility was compromised from the very beginning of his term.<br />It really doesn't get any better from there.  Was Hayes a dynamic, reform-minded president?  Good luck trying to prove that --- the record simply does not support that contention, no matter how hard Hoogenboom tries accentuate the positive.  Granted, Hayes' administration was not the embarrassment of scandals that typified Ulysses Grant's administration, and certainly corrupt Republicans like Roscoe Conkling &amp; James Blaine make Hayes look quite pure, but this does not mean that Hayes had any genuine tendency towards reform.  One only has to examine the not particularly comfortable relationship between Hayes and Secretary of the Interior Carl Schurz to see how Hayes felt about the movement supporting civil service reform, for example.<br />So we are left with a mixed bag.  The only other Hayes biography I have read was written in the early 1930's and was so appallingly racist that I couldn't put it down fast enough.  There has been precious little written on Hayes since then, so Hoogenboom has provided a great service.  It is a well-written &amp; well-researched biography, so there are no complaints in that regard.  I simply do not feel that the author has convincingly made his case.p between Hayes and Secretary of the Interior Carl Schurz to see how Hayes felt about the movement supporting civil service reform, for example.<br />So we are left with a mixed bag.  The only other Hayes biography I have read was written in the early 1930's and was so appallingly racist that I couldn't put it down fast enough.  There has been precious little written on Hayes since then, so Hoogenboom has provided a great service.  It is a well-written &amp; well-researched biography, so there are no complaints in that regard.  I simply do not feel that the author has convincingly made his case.	2004-01-20
US	38548391	R3HL8IE5XP27BH	0679768440	970220790	Arguing about Slavery: John Quincy Adams and the Great Battle in the United States Congress	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Required reading for Southern apologists	Anybody who ascribes to the idiotic notion that Southern secession was all about states' rights and really had nothing to do with slavery needs to be reminded of two antebellum events:  the Fugitive Slave Act, which was legislation that solely benefitted slaveowners while being a complete affront to the notion of states' rights; and the gag rule in Congress from 1836-1844, which essentially stripped citizens & Congressmen of their 1st amendment rights.<br /><br />The gag rule was focused on the 1st Amendment right of petition, which was frequently utilized by US citizens in the early 19th century.  The cause of the furor was a dramatic increase of abolitionist petitions that proposed the abolition of the slave trade within the District of Columbia, which was under the direct jurisdiction of the US Congress (DC was chosen because most people believed that the Constitution did not give the Congress jurisdiction in the individual states --- DC was another matter).<br /><br />The Congress of that period was dominated by pro-slavery Southerners and sympathetic Northerners who would rather not stir up too much trouble.  However, a small group of Congressmen, led by John Quincy Adams, waged an 8-year against the gag rule.  Along the way, Adams & his cohorts, along with an increasingly organized & vocal abolitionist movement, undermined the neutral attitude most Americans had towards the issue of slavery.<br /><br />Former president John Quincy Adams is clearly the central figure of the story, and it is pretty obvious that Miller likes the crochety old statesman.  One cannot read this book and not come away with an increased respect for Adams, who has unfairly been relegated to historical obscurity.  It is remarkable to think that through most of the gag rule battle, Adams was in his mid to late 70's, and almost never missed a day in Congress.  The story also displays abundantly Adams' formidable intellect and parliamentary skills.<br /><br />On the other side of the aisle were the Southern fire-eaters, who were capable of great oratorical flourishes but who possessed precious little strategic skill.  Miller recounts how, time again, the pro-slavery forces miscalculated with their tactics.  Instead of squelching debate about slavery, hotheads like Henry Wise & Waddy Thompson Jr succeeded only in inflaming the controversy.  After 8 years, the leaders of the pro-gag forces were realizing that they might have unleashed forces beyond their control, and abandoned the fight to maintain the gag.<br />The story is presented in an entertainingly narrative style which I found to be quite enjoyable.  Some reviewers have found the author's asides to be a distraction, but I found that they contributed well to the story for the most part.  Indeed, some sections of the book (such as when Adams is facing down his opponents who are attempting to censure him) are real page-turners.<br /><br />While the book was very entertaining, it is also quite sobering.  One becomes aware of the appalling nature of the slave-owning bloc.  So dedicated were they to preserving their own interests that they repeatedly violated the 1st Amendment & trampled on civil rights of WHITE citizens in general, through the censoring of private mail, violating the writ of habeas corpus (South Carolina had a law on the books for almost 40 years, allowing free black sailors to arrested & imprisoned for duration of their ship's stay in port, simply because they were free blacks and MIGHT incite the local slave population to rebel) and (ironically) violating the doctrine of states' rights --- as the right to due process was systematically denied to the citizens of other states (a free enfranchised citizen of Massachusetts, for example, was not due any rights at all under the constitution of Missouri if he happened not to be white).  Eventually, the encroachment by the South on the civil rights of the rest of the nation's citizens became ominous enough for the average citizen in the North to become aware of the genuine threat that the expansion of slavery posed.  Almost all of this starts with the fight over the gag rule in Congress.<br /><br />Miller also examines how Southern politicians tried, with increasing difficulty, to reconcile their claims to being good republicans with their obvious anti-republican actions.  Miller argues that the politicians of the South fought to prevent the mere discussion of slavery because they knew better than anyone that the institution & way of life they were defending could not be defended in the playing field was level.  If violating the principles of the Constitution & the Declaration of Independence is what it took to defend the peculiar institution, then they would do it, but not without a great deal of moral & intellectual discomfort.  It is amazing to read some of the tortured rationalizations of Southern statesmen during this period.<br /><br />This should be required reading for the student of this period.  It is not a dry subject, and fortunately the author writes with plenty of flair.  If some devotee of the Lost Cause mythos starts blathering on about how the Confederacy was only about the defense of states' rights & tries to use the Constitution as a rationalization for secession, this book should provide you with plenty of ammunition for your debate.rth to become aware of the genuine threat that the expansion of slavery posed.  Almost all of this starts with the fight over the gag rule in Congress.<br /><br />Miller also examines how Southern politicians tried, with increasing difficulty, to reconcile their claims to being good republicans with their obvious anti-republican actions.  Miller argues that the politicians of the South fought to prevent the mere discussion of slavery because they knew better than anyone that the institution & way of life they were defending could not be defended in the playing field was level.  If violating the principles of the Constitution & the Declaration of Independence is what it took to defend the peculiar institution, then they would do it, but not without a great deal of moral & intellectual discomfort.  It is amazing to read some of the tortured rationalizations of Southern statesmen during this period.<br /><br />This should be required reading for the student of this period.  It is not a dry subject, and fortunately the author writes with plenty of flair.  If some devotee of the Lost Cause mythos starts blathering on about how the Confederacy was only about the defense of states' rights & tries to use the Constitution as a rationalization for secession, this book should provide you with plenty of ammunition for your debate.	2004-01-20
US	38548391	R2PYQTT4G2NPPJ	015117881X	106244988	Churchill: The End of Glory : A Political Biography	Books	3	28	37	N	N	Flawed premise but some valid criticism of Churchill	I regard Churchill as one of the alltime overrated figures in history, and certainly enjoy seeing him cut down to size.  Charmley provides a veritable all-you-can-eat buffet for Churchill haters, as he recounts in excrutiating detail the extraordinarily flawed personality of Churchill.<br /><br />After setting the stage by illustrating Churchill's early years as a relentless opportunist and self-promoter, Charmley begins to build his case that Churchill was not the great wartime leader that posterity would have us believe, and in fact did not even have a sound grasp of military operational strategy.  The most glaring example is, of course, the Gallipoli Campaign, which was an unmitigated disaster and effectively ended Churchill's political career for more than two decades.  Churchill had gotten his shot at the big time (by becoming First Lord of the Admiralty) and had blown it.  When he got his second chance, he showed that he had learned effectively nothing in the intervening period about military operations.  Throughout World War II, he would attempt to undertake various zany military campaigns, most of which were politely ignored by the Allied commanders.<br /><br />While demonstrating Churchill's ineptitude in this area, Charmley (clearly a Neville Chamberlain apologist) builds a reasonably convincing case for Chamberlain, arguing that Chamberlain was using appeasement more as a tool for buying time than anything else.  Far from being the naive optimist, Chamberlain was quite sure, argues Charmley, that Hitler was not to be trusted in any agreement.  While giving Hitler what he wanted, Chamberlain was quietly building up Britain's military strength for the war he was sure to come.  Because one cannot create a potent fighting force overnight, Chamberlain knew he had to buy time by whatever means necessary.  Churchill, by contrast, was ready to rush into war with Germany in 1937-38, when Britain was in no way prepared to fight a continental war.<br /><br />Up to this point, Charmley's treatment of Churchill is reasonable from a scholarly standpoint.  He can make coherent arguments and back them up with citations and evidence.  However, Charmley's main beef with Churchill has never been that he was reckless & impetuous, or that he wasn't the great military mastermind.  Charmley's problem with Churchill is that he lost the British Empire.  At this point, Charmley's book begins to fall apart.<br /><br />Charmley is writing from the perspective of someone who thinks the British Empire was a pretty neat thing, and wishes that Britain still had its empire, just like the good old days.  In subsequent writings, Charmley has taken his argument even further, casting FDR as an anti-imperial villain who had, as one of his wartime goals, the deliberate destruction of the old colonial empires.  In Charmley's opinion, the primary goal of the British High Command during World War II should have been the preservation of the British Empire.  The defeat of the Nazis and containment of the Soviet Union?  Sure, the British could have tried to do that also, but the preservation of the Empire was the important thing.<br /><br />In fact, the British High Command was trying to do exactly that, and was continually butting heads with General George Marshall over priorities in strategy.  The US wanted as its goal the invasion of Europe proper, and had hoped to launch the Normandy campaign in 1943, a full year before D-Day.  The British, by contrast, favored a peripheral approach, sending valuable resources to reclaim portions of British territory that had been seized by Germany & Japan.  The British also wanted opportunities for their commanders (such as Montgomery) to win glory on the field.  The concessions the US made to Britain, it can be argued, prolonged the war in Europe by up to a year.<br /><br />So Charmley's argument that Churchill did not do enough militarily to preserve the Empire is not particularly valid.  Charmley probably understands this, because he also comes as close he can to stating (without actually doing it) that maybe, just maybe, Churchill might have been well-advised to cut a deal with the Nazis, keep the Empire intact, and focus on the real enemy, which was (in Charmley's conservative viewpoint) the Soviet Union.  Charmley does not explicitly say this, because he would then run the risk of being lumped into the same category as the likes of David Irving.  However, he makes this argument repeatedly, in as an oblique a fashion as he can muster.<br /><br />The whole problem is that Charmley bases his argument on the premise that the British Empire could in fact have been saved, and this is where the biggest flaws in this book creep in.  Charmley would like to ignore the fact that the British Empire had been slowly coming apart at the seams since the Boer War.  Even during Victoria's reign, Britain had been struggling to provide the resources necessary to maintain Imperial control.  The attrition of World War I was effectively the final nail in the Imperial coffin; it was only a matter of time before the inevitable occurred.  One only has to look at post-war France, which tried to restore its colonial empire by force, to see how things probably would have turned out for Britain.<br /><br />One can also ask the question, is Charmley's belief that the Empire deserved to be preserved valid?  This is definitely a matter of perspective.  Did the British Empire ultimately do more harm than good?  Conservatives like Charmley and Thomas Sowell may think that the British Empire overall was a good thing, but I do not agree with that at all.  When you get right down to it, the Empire was simply the subjugation by Britain of other peoples & cultures by naked military force.  I don't recall too many subject people voluntarily entering the British Empire.  If FDR wasn't bent on destroying the British Empire, he should have been.<br /><br />While Charmley does provide some valid criticism of Churchill in this book, overall his most important criticisms are based on some seriously flawed premises.  In the end, this calls into question the ultimate scholarly value of the book.  While it has certainly been controversial enough, does this book truly contribute much to the scholarly debate over Churchill and the history of the 20th century?  I don't believe so.ut actually doing it) that maybe, just maybe, Churchill might have been well-advised to cut a deal with the Nazis, keep the Empire intact, and focus on the real enemy, which was (in Charmley's conservative viewpoint) the Soviet Union.  Charmley does not explicitly say this, because he would then run the risk of being lumped into the same category as the likes of David Irving.  However, he makes this argument repeatedly, in as an oblique a fashion as he can muster.  The whole problem is that Charmley bases his argument on the premise that the British Empire could in fact have been saved, and this is where the biggest flaws in this book creep in.  Charmley would like to ignore the fact that the British Empire had been slowly coming apart at the seams since the Boer War.  Even during Victoria's reign, Britain had been struggling to provide the resources necessary to maintain Imperial control.  The attrition of World War I was effectively the final nail in the Imperial coffin; it was only a matter of time before the inevitable occurred.  One only has to look at post-war France, which tried to restore its colonial empire by force, to see how things probably would have turned out for Britain.  One can also ask the question, is Charmley's belief that the Empire deserved to be preserved valid?  This is definitely a matter of perspective.  Did the British Empire ultimately do more harm than good?  Conservatives like Charmley and Thomas Sowell may think that the British Empire overall was a good thing, but I do not agree with that at all.  When you get right down to it, the Empire was simply the subjugation by Britain of other peoples & cultures by naked military force.  I don't recall too many subject people voluntarily entering the British Empire.  If FDR wasn't bent on destroying the British Empire, he should have been.  While Charmley does provide some valid criticism of Churchill in this book, overall his most important criticisms are based on some seriously flawed premises.  In the end, this calls into question the ultimate scholarly value of the book.  While it has certainly been controversial enough, does this book truly contribute much to the scholarly debate over Churchill and the history of the 20th century?  I don't believe so.	2003-12-17
US	38548391	R2D5J700QU32BR	0060937203	795875416	The Mozart Effect: Tapping the Power of Music to Heal the Body, Strengthen the Mind, and Unlock the Creative Spirit	Books	1	32	46	N	N	Pseudoscientific garbage	The fact that Don Campbell, on the basis of someone else's research, went out and TRADEMARKED the phrase &quot;The Mozart Effect,&quot; should raise some red flags in and of itself.  It should be obvious that Campbell took a 1993 study (that offered only the most tentative of conclusions) and piggybacked it onto the LEGITIMATE field of music therapy, all in order to make a quick buck.  It does indeed seem to be working, judging from the vast array of Mozart Effect items that are readily available for purchase.<br />The entire marketing empire rest upon the fallacy that &quot;listening to Mozart will make you smarter.&quot;  The original researchers reached no such conclusions, and have long since disavowed Don Campbell's claims.  The most that could be said of the original research was that listening to classical music (in this case Mozart's Sonata for 2 Pianos K448 --- not one of his finer efforts, actually) may have helped the listener relax, which in turn may have boosted short-term performance.  The results were short-term and have been very difficult to duplicate, but this has not stopped Don Campbell from making all manner of extravagant claims, none supported by scientific evidence that bears up under close scrutiny.<br />If you are dumb enough to believe the &quot;Mozart Effect&quot; claims, then you could listen to Mozart 24/7 for the next couple of decades without seeing any notable improvement.	2003-12-08
US	38548391	R2YL7NG8UTPGJB	0743229320	772466538	Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide 6th Edition: The Complete, Easy-to-Use Reference on Recent Vintages, Prices, and Ratings for More Than 8,000 Wines from All the Major Wine Regions	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A curious combination of the invaluable &amp; the useless	I find myself very much in agreement with other reviewers, and I am relieved to discover that I was not alone in this.  On the one hand, when one reads Parker's chapters (on Bordeaux and the Rhone Valley in particular), one recognizes the invaluable nature of the guide.<br />On the other hand, one then turns to the incomprehensible gobbledygook that is the chapter on Burgundy.  Proceeding on, one encounters the appalling 11-page chapter on Germany, written by someone who evidently despises most german wines on principle, and which includes absolutely no tasting notes whatsoever.  One also gets to enjoy complete howlers like the Loire chapter, which starts with the question &quot;Why are the Loire's wines so little known?&quot;  Gee, maybe it is because of 12-page chapters that offer no useful information.  All of this is thanks to the rather inept contributions of Pierre-Antoine Rovani.<br />The result is a wildly uneven guide that should be used with some caution.  Parker's chapters for the most part are quite informative.  For the reviewer that complained that most of these wines are long since off the market, one only has to read the Bordeaux chapter in regards to the 2000 vintage, which is still available in abundance.  If one is looking for good sleeper wines among the 2000 Bordeaux, this guide is worth the price.  However, reading Rovani should be regarded as complete waste of time.  Like someone else said, he is just deadweight.	2003-12-08
US	38548391	R26D522LB0ED5N	0963784625	71160616	Blood, Money & Power: How L.B.J. Killed J.F.K.	Books	1	30	84	N	N	Book says more about author's paranoia than anything else	Looking for an examination of physical evidence within this book?  Save your time.  Most of this book is devoted to an examination of &quot;code words&quot; that the author overheard, and intuitive conclusions the author has made despite the absence of any concrete evidence.  Under ordinary circumstances, a person who was convinced that everyone around him was speaking in a secret code would be a prime candidate for a competency hearing, but apparently not in this case.<br />Aside from the secret code babble, McClellan gives the reader revelations about what an unscrupulous power-monger LBJ was.  Well gee, that sure is news to me...I always thought LBJ was pure as the driven snow.  Good grief, if being unscrupulous qualifies one for being the force behind political assassinations, then virtually everyone working on Capitol Hill in 1963 would have to be considered as a suspect.  Even more hilarious is McClellan's subscribing to the Camelot myth, the notion that JFK somehow represented all that was good &amp; pure in US politics.  Give me a break.  This book is ridiculous on so many different levels that it is truly amazing at times.<br />As theories go, the rationale behind this one takes absurdity to its extreme.  For example, if one is going to argue the notion that the person (or persons) who benefitted the most from the JFK assassination had to be the person (or persons) behind it, why not look at the Kennedys themselves?  After all, the assassination transformed JFK from a mediocre and probably one-term president into a dazzling leader of unfulfilled promised, cut down in his prime.  Getting shot in many ways was the best career move JFK ever made, and certainly the Kennedy family has milked the Camelot mythos for all it is worth.  Using McClellan's methodology, this should qualify the Kennedys as prime suspects!  We ought to be sending a squad of investigators to Hyannisport immediately.<br />One can make one of two conclusions about the author: he is either truly delusional and paranoid, or is cynically exploiting the whole conspiracy cottage industry to make a quick buck by floating the most outrageous theory he can cook up.  Since he is preaching to the choir anyway, I am inclined to believe the second conclusion.uly delusional and paranoid, or is cynically exploiting the whole conspiracy cottage industry to make a quick buck by floating the most outrageous theory he can cook up.  Since he is preaching to the choir anyway, I am inclined to believe the second conclusion.	2003-11-26
US	38548391	RV1P8UX7NST3E	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	28	38	N	N	Despite the hype, a mediocre book at best	If it had been better written, and if the development of plot &amp; characters had been more thorough, then this would have been a more enjoyable book to read.  As it is, &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; is a generally not good book that occasionally rises to the lofty heights of a mediocre work of fiction.  It certainly does not merit all of the hype it has gotten.<br />Judged strictly on the standards of a mystery novel, there is little to distinguish this book.  The excitement &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; has generated rests not in its literary merits, but rather on the supposed &quot;historical truths,&quot; sensational in nature, upon which the story is based.<br />Unfortunately, huge chunks of Brown's material have been lifted from the book &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; by mssrs. Baigent et al.  While &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; is in itself a very entertaining book, it is also the worst example of pseudohistorical conspiracy theory masquerading as genuine historical scholarship.  Most of the theories within &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; are (even by the authors' own admission!) pure speculation that cannot be supported by historical evidence.<br />Brown appears to have cobbled together a few other conspiracy theories, relating to the Priory of Sion &amp; Rennes-le-Chateau (all equally dubious).  He also puts forth the ludicrous but hilarious contention that the Emperor Constantine practically pulled the notion of Christ's divinity out of thin air --- a contention so easily disproven by the historical record that it hardly merits mentioning.  Mostly, however,  his &quot;exhaustive historical research&quot; seems to rest with lifting big chunks of material from &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail.&quot;<br />Anybody with a few minutes to kill can search the internet for sources that can easily debunk just about all of the historical &quot;facts&quot; that are cited in this novel.  When the validity of the history evaporates, the sensational nature of the novel similarly disappears.<br />One suspects that Brown knows that he is mostly re-hashing a bunch of pseudohistorical gobbledygook, but is banking on the general ignorance of his readers, and it appears that in this case, his research was (for once) both thorough &amp; accurate.he novel similarly disappears.<br />One suspects that Brown knows that he is mostly re-hashing a bunch of pseudohistorical gobbledygook, but is banking on the general ignorance of his readers, and it appears that in this case, his research was (for once) both thorough &amp; accurate.	2003-10-30
US	38548391	RW807A7EU71ZR	1931412928	544319524	Bloodline of the Holy Grail: The Hidden Lineage of Jesus Revealed	Books	1	23	35	N	N	More pseudohistorical rubbish	It isn't a question of having one's strongly held beliefs challenged or questioned.  It isn't a question of being not being open-minded.  It is a question a presenting one's case and supporting it with independently veriafiable documentation.  Only the most credulous naif, with no background in historical or genealogical methodology, could state that Gardner has even remotely achieved this.<br />Citing nebulous sources that noone but the researcher has access to does not qualify as a well-researched work, and everything that Gardner has done is rife with ill-defined, generalized citations.  Entire archives are cited as a source, with no specifics provided.  No independent researcher could ever hope to verify any of Gardner's claims.  Many of his claims have to documentation whatsoever, but are simply \\"common knowledge\\" among the noble descendants of Jesus who are apparently strewn across Western Europe.<br />What does this all boil down to?  A cottage industry promoting the laughable claims of \\"Prince Michael\\" of Albany, a Belgian named Michel LaFosse who, with the aid of forged documents and a hilariously bogus genealogy, has proclaimed himself the de jure king of Scotland.  \\"Prince Michael\\" subsequently wrote a similarly ridiculous book, again touting his bogus claims, and again providing no independently verifiable documentation.<br />A couple of years ago, two \\"research journalists\\" apparently tracked down \\"Prince Michael\\" as they were researching the alleged murder of Princess Diana.  Tracked him down?  It isn't like this guy has been in hiding!  Now the claim has been circulated that Princess Diana was assassinated for, among other things, getting ready to reveal the awful truth that the real monarch of Great Britain is actually \\"Prince Michael!\\"<br />To hear Gardner & \\"Prince Michael\\" tell it, their claims have the victim of a huge, centuries-long coverup, and that the realities of the Grail Bloodline could blow the British Establishment to smithereens.  If that is true, one wonders how Gardner & \\"Prince Michael\\" have managed to survive this long without dying in a car accident of their own, a la Princess Diana.  Maybe they don't drive.  One marvels at the fact that they have managed to elude all of those government assassins for as long as they have.<br />Come on people!  This is all about making a buck off of a bunch of suckers who can't be bothered to read citations.  Do you really like being lied to, and paying money for that privilege?  I can lie to you if you want and provide no documentation to verify my claims.  I can even ask for money if you really want me to; my rates are very reasonable.that is true, one wonders how Gardner & \\"Prince Michael\\" have managed to survive this long without dying in a car accident of their own, a la Princess Diana.  Maybe they don't drive.  One marvels at the fact that they have managed to elude all of those government assassins for as long as they have.<br />Come on people!  This is all about making a buck off of a bunch of suckers who can't be bothered to read citations.  Do you really like being lied to, and paying money for that privilege?  I can lie to you if you want and provide no documentation to verify my claims.  I can even ask for money if you really want me to; my rates are very reasonable.	2003-10-21
US	38548391	REZYFCP507YJW	0836207785	844933705	Mallard Fillmore	Books	2	16	41	N	N	If only it were just a little funny	Bruce Tinsley believes that the conservative point of view is woefully under-represented in the funny pages, and I suppose he may be right in that.  But Tinsley, in his drive to illustrate his viewpoint, along the way has forgotten to include the humor that is necessary.<br />I suppose one could level that same criticism at the current crop of Doonesbury cartoons which seem to have lost their focus, but in its heyday, the strip was indeed funny &amp; readable.  Doonesbury also took aim at targets on both ends of the spectrum on a regular basis.  This is an area in which &quot;Mallard Fillmore&quot; is sorely lacking.<br />The idea that either the liberal or conservative ideologies has alone cornered the market on absurdity is ludicrous.  A good satirist will target absurdity on both sides of the spectrum, and until Tinsley recognizes this, he will be nothing more than a partisan writer of cartoon polemics.	2003-10-07
US	38548391	RBE4FZT4FILH4	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A touching story of enduring friendship	A couple of old geezers take a road trip to visit another old geezer.  That could accurately sum up the story behind &quot;The Teammates&quot; if need be.  Some people might call this a baseball book, but really, baseball is only marginally discussed throughout the book (mostly when describing how the various players came up through the minors and joined the Red Sox).  The book is more about the enduring friendship of four men who played baseball on the Red Sox together for approximately a dozen years, five decades ago.<br />It helps that two of the teammates (Doerr &amp; Williams) happen to be Hall of Famers, and that Williams was the greatest hitter of all time.  However, the bulk of the book is spent discussing how the men related with each other, and especially how Doerr, DiMaggio &amp; Pesky coped with the larger-than-life personality of Ted Williams.<br />It is a touching book.  For me, the most enjoyable aspects of Halberstam's baseball books were his discussion of the individual ball players and their personalities.  That is practically all one gets in &quot;The Teammates.&quot;  For me, it was tremendously enjoyable &amp; satisfying.	2003-10-06
US	38548391	R3DRARIBQTQXHW	0786869208	887592491	The Greatest Game Ever Played: Harry Vardon, Francis Ouimet, and the Birth of Modern Golf	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An absolutely fabulous narrative	It would be hard to come up with a more obscure topic for a book.  The 1913 US Open?  Are you kidding?  Who wants to read about that?  It was only because I heard a positive review of this book over the radio that I even considered picking it up.  I am most gratified that I did.<br />The first section of the book, which discusses both the rise of Harry Vardon to golf superstardom and the childhood of Francis Ouimet, is riveting.  Two individuals, raised half a world apart (although in similar economic circumstances) make their way through their respective worlds.  It seems totally unlikely that their two paths will ever intersect.<br />The second section of the book, which covers the qualifying &amp; final rounds for the US Open, was to me a little less engaging, at least until the final playoff round between Ouimet, Vardon, and Ted Ray, where the 20-year-old Ouimet shocked the golf world by defeating the seasoned British professionals.  His victory announced the arrival of American golf, and ranks as one of the great upsets in sports history.  Ouimet was the first US amateur to win the US Open.  The stroke-by-stroke description of the final round is a true page-turner.<br />The book only bogged down when the author attempts to describe the era in which the game is set.  He gushes over Teddy Roosevelt &amp; castigates William Howard Taft, whose term he describes as one of the most disastrous in history.  This section not only seems unnecessary, but clearly shows that Frost is not exactly a student of US history.  Taft may not be one our great presidents, but his term was not exactly a fiasco.  Why Frost spends as many pages ripping into Taft is a mystery to me.<br />All golfers should read this, if for no other reason than to be humbled by the description of the equipment &amp; conditioins under which these golfers played.  In a day of graphite shafts &amp; over-sized heads, where duffers can launch the ball great distances, it is almost inconceivable that men could play with any accuracy with wooden shafts &amp; gutties.  One is left with the impression that Harry Vardon would massacre most modern-day professionals if given half the chance.  It is very depressing for hackers such as myself, but then one has the example of Francis Ouimet, who reminds us why we love the game so much.play with any accuracy with wooden shafts &amp; gutties.  One is left with the impression that Harry Vardon would massacre most modern-day professionals if given half the chance.  It is very depressing for hackers such as myself, but then one has the example of Francis Ouimet, who reminds us why we love the game so much.	2003-10-06
US	38548391	R19G0T9EE62U7D	0767904486	683753064	Wine and War: The French, the Nazis, and the Battle for France's Greatest Treasure	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An interesting albeit insubstantial story	If you want a good World War II history, then this is not the book for you.  In fact, if you don't love wine, you won't find this book to be all that interesting at all.  In the larger context of history, one could charitably call this a history of one of the many dimensions of the German occupation of France &amp; the French resistance.<br />It is a fascinating portrayl of the wine-making industry &amp; its subculture, and is an intriguing example of how far some people were willing to go to protect, in the final analysis, a bunch bottles of fermented grape juice.  The french &amp; the germans involved in this story are patriots, collaborators &amp; sympathetic occupiers.  There stories can be found by the thousands outside of the world of wine.  The only distinction is that the french attach such importance to their wines, which give them a sense of their national identity.<br />As befits a largely insubstantial topic, the book is a quick and easy read.  The authors are not trying to impart some Great Message, but are simply trying to tell a pretty interesting tale.  It is enjoyable enough to merit 4 stars, but would need more substance for a 5th star.	2003-10-06
US	38548391	RBGQF6YFS0JSX	0375826688	109261953	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	3	36	46	N	N	Imitative & utterly derivative	OK OK, so the author is only a teenager, and I give him kudos for his initiative.  However, I liken his effort to all of those romance novels that are written by bored housewives --- it is very nice that the initiative is there, but it is nothing we have not seen a thousand times before.<br />Only the most dense reader could fail to see the obvious imitations of Tolkein strewn liberally throughout the work.  Paolini may someday develop into a writer of some distinction, but for now he is a verbose imitation of the many fantasy authors that have preceded him.  Even his decision to frame his story in the form of a trilogy is irritating --- how many trilogies can the world endure?  Just because practically every other fantasy author has done it doesn't mean Paolini has to do it as well.<br />Definitely, this is juvenile literature, written by a juvenile author & best left to young readers without much literary experience.  Judged on its own merits, this book leaves little lasting impact.	2003-10-03
US	38548391	R19CIF00K6WTRI	0878338209	335238671	Shoeless Joe and Ragtime Baseball	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Simply awful	Nothing more than sappy baseball nostalgia masquerading as a biography.  Totally useless.	2003-10-03
US	38548391	R9YEOBIWFTORM	0786408693	752105073	Millard Fillmore	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Reads more like a giant pamphlet than a biography	While I agree with the author that Millard Fillmore has been unjustly maligned by historians as a weak boring president, I found this biography to more of a disservice to Fillmore than anything else.<br /><br />Detail in a biography is nice, but this book reads more like a giant pamphlet, with endless recitation of one tidbit after another, than a coherent, analytical biography.  The paragraphs often seem to have nothing to do with each other; the author states a single fact, cites his source, and then moves on.  The facts being stated sometimes seem to be more than the reader really needs:<br /><br />\\"Fillmore wrote home about accidents.  In 1838, a head-on collision of locomotives occurred on the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad which prevented a passenger train arriving with mail.  In 1841, a flood on the Susquehanna River carried away a steamboat to Chesapeake Bay.  A rescue boat was sent for relief.\\"  (p. 123)<br /><br />What usefulness such information serves in understanding Fillmore (other than the fact that he wrote letters to his family) is beyond me.  Unfortunately, the book is full of such paragraphs.<br /><br />When he is not inundating the reader with minutiae, Scarry tends to sound like a character witness in Fillmore's trial.  He clearly reacts personally to what he perceives as negative attacks on Fillmores character, and indignantly leaps to Fillmore's defense.  Since I don't find Fillmore to be a particularly controversial historical figure, I find this passion to be somewhat misplaced.  It tends to detract from a sense of objectivity on the author's part.<br /><br />When all is said and done, I guess you can say that this is informative a biography on Fillmore as the reader can expect to find.  Being informative does not necessarily equate with being a good biography.  For example, one could read Robert Remini's biography of Daniel Webster to get a contrast on how one can write about this time period.  Fillmore is important to a certain degree, but I really don't think his importance merits a biography as exhaustive as this.<br /><br />This is not a terrible biography, and it does fill a void regarding Fillmore.  However, the author would be well-advised to remove much of the minutiae, which would cut the book's length in half.  The tedious nature of the book means many readers may lose interest halfway through.biography as exhaustive as this.    This is not a terrible biography, and it does fill a void regarding Fillmore.  However, the author would be well-advised to remove much of the minutiae, which would cut the book's length in half.  The tedious nature of the book means many readers may lose interest halfway through.	2003-10-01
US	38548391	R2QA4QYVR0987P	0679446958	810809476	Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust	Books	2	291	369	N	N	Deeply flawed study with some good points	One hopes that at some future date, Goldhagen (or an editor who acutally knows his job) will return to this work and do some serious editing.  Clearly Goldhagen simply took his doctoral thesis, and with precious little revision, transformed it into a book that is barely readable, due to its dense and repetitive language.  The reader should be warned that the narrative does not flow freely in this book.<br /><br />For those readers who have the stomachs to wade through the book to its conclusions, they will find some useful material.  In particular, Goldhagen has shown that more ordinary Germans were active participants in the Holocaust than has been previously believed, and in this he is to be commended.<br /><br />If he had left it at that (and had made his book somewhat more readable), most of the criticism this book has received never would have occurred.  Unfortunately, Goldhagen attempts to extend his argument by stating that virtually all Germans were culturally hard-wired to participate in a Holocaust, once the right circumstances were in place.  He maintains that German culture has essentially programmed Germans to be eleminationist anti-semites, either tacitly or actively, and furthermore, this is a cultural feature unique to the Germans.<br /><br />The flaws in this argument should be obvious to anyone.  For one thing, Goldhagen assumes that the average German, if he or she did not actively oppose the Nazi regime, was therefore tacitly supporting it and by extension was anti-semitic, abetting the more active Holocaust participants.  How does one prove that one is not an eliminationist anti-semite under the conditions Goldhagen has provided?  It would be virtually impossible for any human on the planet to prove that he or she wasn't ready to participate in the Holocaust, except that Goldhagen has focused his sights on the Germans alone.<br /><br />This raises the most glaring flaw:  obviously, a great deal of the killing was done by non-Germans, and the majority of the victims in the Holocaust were not Jewish!  From Eastern Europe to France, Germany certainly had plenty of help in liquidating the millions of victims it did.  How does Goldhagen reconcile this with his argument?  Simply put, he doesn't.  The sections of the book where he tries to rationalize these discrepancies are unravelling before he even finishes them.<br /><br />In fact, even his argument that Germany had a uniquely historical predisposition towards anti-semitism is difficult to accept.  How does one explain that Jews in 19th century Germany were probably the most prosperous in Europe, if they are living in a region filled with people who are programmed to kill them under the right circumstances?  How does one explain away the fact that anti-semitism in France was probably even more virulent at the turn of the century?  For that matter, how does one explain away the pogroms in Russia which were clearly taking place long before Nazi ideology began to form?<br /><br />Goldhagen's argument that Jews were killed by Germans because, well, that's what Germans do, in its own perverse way lets the rest of us, the human race, off the hook.  The implication is that the rest of us shouldn't worry about a holocaust in our back yard because we aren't Germans hard-wired to participate in a holocaust.  This is very troubling, because obviously the human race at large is very much hard-wired to engage in genocidal activities just as the Germans did, given the right circumstances.  The events of the past century should demonstrate that genocide is by no means a German specialty, although the Nazis practiced it with unequalled efficiency.<br /><br />Goldhagen seems to have focused his enmity towards the Germans to the point he is able to ignore the plentiful evidence of genocide all across the globe, and in so doing, he has cheapened the lives of the victims of genocide who happened not to be Jewish.  Genocide isn't a Jewish problem, and it isn't a German problem, it is a human problem.  I don't think Goldhagen has fully accepted that; otherwise his book would have been written much differently.; otherwise his book would have been written much differently.	2003-09-10
US	38548391	R36C6BVRPVQS3V	0895945096	430669974	From Bengal to Punjab: The Cuisines of India	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great introduction to Indian cuisine	Echoing another reviewer, this is by no means a comprehensive examination of Indian cuisine.  The cuisines of southern India tend to be neglected in favor of more familiar Mughal recipes.  Smita Chandra addresses regional cooking more equitably in her &quot;Cuisines of India.&quot;  Also, the recipes contained in &quot;From Bengal to Punjab&quot; are not grand recipes that would be served as a centerpiece at a banquet; they are simple, basic recipes which are easy to make but not dazzling.<br />If you keep that in mind, you will find this a most satisfying cookbook, which will introduce you to the basic components and techniques of Indian cooking.  I have used this cookbook for over 10 years, and have always been happy with the results.<br />The cookbook is inexpensive, well laid out, and the recipes are very easy to follow.  There are virtually no ingredients in these recipes that you cannot find in most good urban market these days, which reflects the rising popularity of ethnic cuisines.  If you are interested in learning the basics of Indian cuisine, then this is a very good cookbook to use for that purpose.	2003-08-31
US	38548391	RD5TJEE0AZR1E	0452266831	711664048	The Best of Lord Krishna's Cuisine: Favorite Recipes from The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking (Plume)	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Authentic?  Depends on your perspective	If you are more concerned with adhering to Vedic principles than in creating interesting Indian food, then by golly, this is the cookbook for you.  Probably you don't consider other Indian food to be authentic (just the way Texans don't consider Kansas City or Carolina barbeque to be REAL barbeque), but let's face it:  most Indians no longer adhere strictly to the Vedic principles when it comes to food preparation.  No onions, no garlic?  I don't think so.<br />This is a cookbook more concerned with Vedic hair-splitting than with creating decent recipes.  I found that most of the recipes I tried were unnecessarily complicated, if not downright unworkable, and the results, more often than not, were totally bland and uninteresting. After several unsatisfying attempts, I abandoned this cookbook as a hopeless case, and it has gathered dust on my bookshelf for the last 7-8 years.<br />Keep in mind that the author (the former Joan Campanella) is a convert to what we commonly define as the Hare Krishnas, and that the followers of this movement comprise a tiny fraction of India's population.  They are like Vegans, as compared to your average Vegetarian, and their food cannot by any definition be called the food of the average Indian.<br />It amazes me that the recipes of a western convert are called more authentic than the recipes of native Indians, but then again, it is most likely only other converts to the Krishna Consciousness movement saying that.<br />If this belief system appeals to you, then by all means, use this cookbook with great relish.  There is plenty of Vaishnava musing to be found within this book's pages.  The rest of us prefer not to die of boredom or frustation from unworkable recipes.	2003-08-31
US	38548391	R1W5IKTLYP386	0688037216	78051749	Classic Indian Cooking	Books	5	9	9	N	N	THE essential Indian cookbook for your kitchen!	Each cuisine has its essential cookbook author:  Julia Child for French cuisine, Marcella Hazan for Italian cuisine, Paula Wolfert for Mediterranean cuisine, Diana Kennedy for Mexican cuisine.  Their cookbooks are the ones that you would be a fool not to have in your collection, if you are remotely interested in these cuisines.  They are essential building blocks for your kitchen.<br />Such is definitely the case for &quot;Classic Indian Cooking&quot; by Julie Sahni.  If I could own only one Indian cookbook, then this would have to be it.<br />All regions are well-represented.  Techniques and ingredients are well-explained and presented.  Vegetarian recipes are reasonably well-represented (although Sahni has covered vegetarian cooking more thoroughly in other cookbooks).  The recipes range from simple fare to elaborate banquet show-stoppers.  What is not to like about this book?	2003-08-31
US	38548391	RSVBXLPRW60QY	0385037872	633917650	Roots	Books	2	47	71	N	N	Inexusable --- fiction posing as genealogy	Don't get me wrong --- I thought the story contained within &quot;Roots&quot; was gripping, and it was well written.  Also, it is obvious that the underlying truths of slavery in America are echoed within the story of &quot;Roots.&quot;  If Haley had written and marketed this as a novel, based loosely on some of his family stories, I would be giving this 4 or 5 stars.<br />Unfortunately, his purported family history simply isn't true, and not only is it not true, but it has been deliberately distorted by Haley so that his story would have more punch to it.  Haley has long since lost credibility within both the fields of black history and genealogy, and even Haley (after receiving much criticism) conceded that he had taken &quot;artistic license&quot; with some details, although he never acknowledged the true breadth of his distortions.<br />If you want to see how inaccurate &quot;Roots&quot; is, check out an article written by Elizabeth Shown Mills &amp; Gary B. Mills in the National Genealogical Society Quarterly (Volume 72 #1 pp 35-49), which absolutely shreads both the American &amp; African aspects of Haley's alleged family history.  It will make it difficult to read this book with much enthusiasm.<br />It is hard to have much respect for Haley; he deliberately distorted his family's story, never fully owned up to that fact, and then basically rode the gravy train that was &quot;Roots&quot; for the rest of his life.  To me, that is beneath contempt.  Read the book if you must, but understand that it is almost pure fiction.	2003-08-23
US	38548391	R2UJHV0BUS4I0N	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	3	22	33	N	N	Holy Moley, Holy Cow	I first read this as a credulous 15-year-old, but even then I found the claims to be entirely unsupported by the evidence cited.  In the years since then, I am amazed that I could have been that generous.<br />This is a classic case of conspiracy theory and pseudo history:  cite a few plausible assertions as proven fact, and then pile loads of implausible claims and speculations on top of those supposed proven facts.  It makes for a gripping narrative, but rapidly departs from what we know as reality.<br />This is not to say that this isn't an extremely entertaining book, but only if you approach it entirely as a work of fiction.  It is a fantastic yarn, and lots of fun, but please don't take it seriously at all.  The three stars is a combined rating:  1 star for the historical accuracy, 5 stars for the overall entertaining nature of the book.	2003-08-23
US	38548391	R1DK6AC7L7UB3Q	1880187000	871675956	Six Black Presidents: Black Blood : White Masks USA	Books	1	48	65	N	N	Pseudo-history at its absolute worst	Set firmly in the afrocentrist tradition of GGM James, JH Clarke, and JA Rogers, this junk is a classic example of pseudo-history.  Again and again, we see speculation and rumor (&quot;it has been said&quot; appears again and again in the text) presented later in the book as established fact.  Repeatedly, the only citations for the assertions made refer to other afrocentrist authors, particularly Rogers.  Very little use of legitimate primary sources is made; evidently using archival material, in the eyes of the author, only plays into the hands of the conspiritorial White Establishment.<br />The author justifies her deplorable historical standards by babbling something about &quot;ourstory,&quot;  implying that &quot;history&quot; is only for white folks.  &quot;Ourstory,&quot; because it somehow empowers black folks, is evidently exempt from any sort of academic standards.  Anything goes, apparently.<br />Not only are the academic standards totally lacking, but the book at times borders on incoherence.  Herbal remedies pop up, seemingly out of nowhere, in the middle of narratives unrelated to the remedies.  The author frequently rants about the evils that white folks do, in jarring digressions that serve only to detract from the overall narrative.<br />The real shame is that the subject of people of black heritage &quot;passing for white&quot; is indeed a subject that deserves serious study.  In fact, serious scholarship has been devoted to the subject.  More Americans than we realize have artfully concealed, sometimes from their own families, their true ethnic heritage.  People within the same family will choose to live either as white or black, and it is intriguing how this shapes their descendants perceptions of themselves.  This is a very important topic, but the author, with her rampant speculation (she seems to believe that every single white American is hiding a black ancestor somewhere), only serves to undermine the scholarship surrounding this subject.<br />This is a worthless book in every respect.  It isn't even good for a cheap laugh.  Please do not regard this as good history in any way, because it is more about the author's personal agenda than responsible history./>This is a worthless book in every respect.  It isn't even good for a cheap laugh.  Please do not regard this as good history in any way, because it is more about the author's personal agenda than responsible history.	2003-08-23
US	38548391	R199ZXLRO0BC50	0306809133	649891793	George B. Mcclellan: The Young Napoleon	Books	4	16	16	N	N	More biography than military history	This is a very good examination of George McClellan the man.  It is not, strictly speaking, a Civil War history and this should be kept in mind while reading it.  Readers will find this book particularly useful keeping it in the larger context of Sears' subsequent works, &quot;Landscape Turned Red&quot; and &quot;To the Gates of Richmond.&quot;<br />What I find particularly interesting is that the more Sears studied his subject, the more he came to dislike McClellan.  &quot;Landscape Turned Red&quot; is the first of the three books, and while Sears was fairly harsh in his judgement of McClellan, he still was prepared to give McClellan the benefit of the doubt.  By the time he wrote the biography, Sears' respect for McClellan was clearly slipping away; when he came to write &quot;To the Gates of Richmond,&quot; his contempt for McClellan knew no bounds.<br />If you want a good biographical treatment of McClellan, then this book will serve you well.  Sears' other books will give you more in-depth analysis of McClellan's military campaigns.	2003-08-23
US	38548391	RSY39AOZDU6AG	0385319428	792384979	The Architect of Desire: Beauty and Danger in the Stanford White Family	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Compelling story of a mixed legacy	What would it be like to be descended from one of America's most celebrated architects?  For that matter, what would it be like to be descended from a man whose lurid, predatory sexual practices were once front-page news?<br />Members of the Stanford White family have had to deal with those issues for almost 100 years now, since White was gunned down at Madison Square Garden in 1906.  For the most part, the White family did not discuss their illustrious pater familias, but Stanford White is ever-present, in all respects, in their collective lives.  How the family did (or did not) deal with this mixed legacy would manifest itself over the next four generations.<br />Suzannah Lessard, a great-granddaughter of Stanford White, addresses this legacy squarely.  She does not attempt to suger-coat White's personality, which combines breath-taking artistic genius with a self-indulgent predatory streak that ultimately led to his destruction.  Through the book, she weaves multiple tales about her family, which includes stories of mental illness, sexual abuse, and emotional repression.  She does this with remarkable candor.<br />This is a Social Register family.  They are related to the Astors, the Winthrops, the Chanlers, the Roosevelts, the Rockefellers, etc.  They own a magnificent property, designed by Stanford White, on Long Island.  On the surface, it would appear that this family has the world as its oyster.  Suzannah Lessard shows that no amount of social prominence and privelage can protect a family from the problems that can face us all.	2003-08-23
US	38548391	R12FV9GGDO451O	1843332752	160314449	The Forgotten Monarchy of Scotland: The True Story of the Royal House of Stewart and the Hidden Lineage of the Kings and Queens of Scots	Books	1	17	18	N	N	Hilariously bad pseudo-history	This book would be even funnier if people did not take it so seriously. As a history, it doesn't even deserve notice; most of the assertions \\"Prince Michael\\" makes are backed up by citations that are so deliberately vague (The Vatican Archives, for example) that no serious scholar could ever attempt to verify his claims to being the legitimate Stuart claimant.<br /><br />As a genealogy, this book is positively grotesque. \\"Prince Michael's\\" purported ancestry includes supposed ancestors that did not even exist, as has been conclusively demonstrated by a number of very good websites that specialize in European royal & noble lines. The fact that \\"Prince Michael\\" is in league with the very very dubious Laurence Gardner, who has no credence whatsoever in genealogical circles, should speak for itself.<br /><br />A visit to \\"Prince Michael's\\" and Gardner's websites show clearly that the whole purpose of this enterprise is to make a buck, and evidently they have been successful in this venture, even if historical truth had to be sacrificed to achieve this.<br /><br />This is not to say that I didn't enjoy the book. When the author doesn't have to bother with historical accuracy, he can instead concentrate on writing a brisk narrative. As a result, I was able to finish this book in rather short order. Also, there some pretty funny stuff in this book, such as the claim that Napoleon is the direct descendant of Charles I of Great Britain (supported again, we are told, by evidence buried deep within the Vatican Archives). Also, the absolutely god-awful painting of \\"Prince Michael\\" with his illustrious Stuart forebears (by the \\"court painter,\\" we are told) was so bad that I could not help but laugh at great length. Such merriment can only be good for the soul, so I guess this book does indeed have something to offer.<br /><br />In short, if you want a good laugh, by all means read this book. If you are looking for something with even a whiff of historical truth, look elsewhere.<br /><br />*****UPDATE, 4 August 2006*****<br /><br />The house of cards appears finally to have collapsed; Michael LaFosse, self styled Prince of Albany and de jure King of Scotland, has fled the UK (apparently returning to his mother's home) rather than face charges from the UK Home Office that his citizenship and passport were obtained using forged documents.  He is also facing investigations into the charities he has organized.  The support he once enjoyed appears to be evaporating in light of the Home Office investigations, as well as recent negative articles in the Sunday Herald & Sunday Mail.<br /><br />And yet, this book was a best-seller when it was released.  Even though it never stood up to close scrutiny, this book evidently told a lot of people what they wanted to hear, that there was a legitimate descendant of Bonnie Prince Charlie who was looking out for Scottish interests.<br /><br />It worked for awhile --- people seemed willing to look past the dubious nature of his claims, in part because they wanted to believe that it was true, and also because many people will believe anything that is in print.  It is a sad commentary that a man with obviously forged documents could keep the game going for nearly 30 years, but for a con to work, people have to buy into it, and buy they did.<br /><br />Now that Michael LaFosse's delusions of grandeur seem to have vanished in a puff of smoke (one has to believe that if he truly believed his own claims, he would have stood his ground and fought the charges), this may book may ultimately be the only remainder (the royal website seems to have been taken down for good) of one man's zany quest, much like the Hay Allan brothers' \\"Vestiarium Scoticum\\" from 1842.  At times it verges into the realm of \\"so bad it's good,\\" but mostly it is bad in a depressingly earnest sort of way.<br /><br />Interesting only as a historical curiosity these days.**    The house of cards appears finally to have collapsed; Michael LaFosse, self styled Prince of Albany and de jure King of Scotland, has fled the UK (apparently returning to his mother's home) rather than face charges from the UK Home Office that his citizenship and passport were obtained using forged documents.  He is also facing investigations into the charities he has organized.  The support he once enjoyed appears to be evaporating in light of the Home Office investigations, as well as recent negative articles in the Sunday Herald & Sunday Mail.    And yet, this book was a best-seller when it was released.  Even though it never stood up to close scrutiny, this book evidently told a lot of people what they wanted to hear, that there was a legitimate descendant of Bonnie Prince Charlie who was looking out for Scottish interests.    It worked for awhile --- people seemed willing to look past the dubious nature of his claims, in part because they wanted to believe that it was true, and also because many people will believe anything that is in print.  It is a sad commentary that a man with obviously forged documents could keep the game going for nearly 30 years, but for a con to work, people have to buy into it, and buy they did.    Now that Michael LaFosse's delusions of grandeur seem to have vanished in a puff of smoke (one has to believe that if he truly believed his own claims, he would have stood his ground and fought the charges), this may book may ultimately be the only remainder (the royal website seems to have been taken down for good) of one man's zany quest, much like the Hay Allan brothers' \\"Vestiarium Scoticum\\" from 1842.  At times it verges into the realm of \\"so bad it's good,\\" but mostly it is bad in a depressingly earnest sort of way.    Interesting only as a historical curiosity these days.	2003-08-04
US	38548391	RLCLH8FI51YZT	0684829533	27723503	Lee	Books	3	17	29	N	N	Beautifully written but not objective in any sense	Let us not put too fine a point on it...Douglas Southall Freeman simply LOVES Robert E. Lee.  If you have also read Freeman's equally exhaustive biography of Washington, you can debate which man Freeman loves more.  At times the prose, though beautifully written, can get positively gushy.  There is no way the reader can consider this an objective biography.<br />However, until some other historian writes it, Freeman has produced the most comprehensive biography available.  His research is thorough, and the writing is definitely beautiful and enjoyable to read.<br />It is not unbiased.  Lee is practically shown as infallible, the Yankees are portrayed as malignant, vile creatures that cheerfully trample the Constitution underfoot, and Lee's mistakes are written off to the bumbling incompetence of his subordinates.  While the biography abounds with detail (which makes it an indispensable part of any good bibliography), there is definitely an agenda at work here.  This is work which needs to read in concert with more recent scholarship.<br />This abridged version eliminates some of the mind-numbing detail of Lee's life (I do think that Freeman got a little carried away with this...if he had pared it down a little it might not have taken 20 years to write), but you will still get plenty of the worshipful, gushy prose.  What would Freeman be without the gush?	2003-06-17
US	38548391	R1OPM3KXTO32ER	0807819565	5632074	Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History (Civil War America)	Books	4	15	22	N	N	A mixed bag but some good analysis	Reading some of the other reviews of this book is proof enough that the Lost Cause orthodoxy is alive and well.  It would be simple enough to ascribe this book to vile Yankee enmity for daring to challenge accepted assumptions about RE Lee.<br />That having been said, I am not totally satisfied with Nolan's approach.  He rightfully criticizes various historians for drawing conclusions about Lee based on single statements or letters written by Lee (often after the fact).  However, Nolan is often guilty of the same misdeed.  While I suspect that the documentary record would tend support Nolan's thesis than undermine it, nonetheless the documentation Nolan provides is quite limited.  Carefully selecting the evidence that supports your argument might work in a court of law, but not in a work of history.<br />I also think that Nolan at times indulges in unnecessary hair-splitting, such as in the 5-page Chapter 5, where he discusses Lee's feelings towards his adversaries.  The chapter seemed to me to be totally superfluous and contributed nothing to the book overall.<br />Nolan, in an effort to discredit the dogma of the Lost Cause, at times goes overboard in his assumptions.  When criticizing Lee for undermining the Confederacy's war effort by going too much on the offensive, Nolan states that the South actually had a realistic chance of winning the war.  His argument is that if Lee had preserved his manpower more prudently, the South could have withstood the North's attempts at conquest.  This is a valid argument, because it is obvious that Lee did a good job of wrecking his army from 1861-1863.<br />However, Nolan's larger argument rests on the supposition that the South was effectively managing its war effort elsewhere.  Ironically, like many of the devotees of the Lost Cause, Nolan ignores the impact of the war in the Western Theatre while focusing on the Eastern Theatre.  The reality was that in the Western Theatre, especially in the first two years of the war when North &amp; South were more or less equally matched in the field, the South was steadily losing ground virtually from the beginning.  This is due as much to the incompetent generalship of the Confederacy as anything else.  Even if Lee had carefully husbanded his manpower, he could not have undone the damage caused by generals such as Polk &amp; Bragg in the Western Theatre.<br />The best part of Nolan's book is the final chapter, where he discusses the overall effort by the South (with very willing collusion from the North) to turn the Civil War &amp; the Antebellum period into some sort of idyllic fairy tale, due to the racist attitudes that both regions shared.  He gives a convincing argument about century-long effort to change the very nature of the war, of which the Lee mythology is only one element.<br />While at times this book veers dangerously close to being a commonplace chop-job, overall it makes a decent contribution to the literature.  If Nolan had provided more comprehensive documentation, its impact would be all the better.  As it is, one cannot consider it the last word, but it has ushered in an honest debate on the subject.North &amp; South were more or less equally matched in the field, the South was steadily losing ground virtually from the beginning.  This is due as much to the incompetent generalship of the Confederacy as anything else.  Even if Lee had carefully husbanded his manpower, he could not have undone the damage caused by generals such as Polk &amp; Bragg in the Western Theatre.<br />The best part of Nolan's book is the final chapter, where he discusses the overall effort by the South (with very willing collusion from the North) to turn the Civil War &amp; the Antebellum period into some sort of idyllic fairy tale, due to the racist attitudes that both regions shared.  He gives a convincing argument about century-long effort to change the very nature of the war, of which the Lee mythology is only one element.<br />While at times this book veers dangerously close to being a commonplace chop-job, overall it makes a decent contribution to the literature.  If Nolan had provided more comprehensive documentation, its impact would be all the better.  As it is, one cannot consider it the last word, but it has ushered in an honest debate on the subject.	2003-06-17
US	38548391	RY8YIZ0U04TRO	0060932457	167983138	Pasta e Verdura: 140 Vegetable Sauces for Spaghetti, Fusilli, Rigatoni, and All Other Noodles	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A fabulous cookbook to be used again &amp; again!	This is one of the very best cookbooks I have ever used!  Out of 75+ cookbooks I own, this one gets used repeatedly.  The sauces are delicious, and for the most part, very easy to prepare.  The recipes are so simple to follow that I prepare most of the sauces from memory now, and it should take only 2 or 3 preparations before you can do these sauces by heart.  With a few exceptions, the ingredients are all pretty commonplace.  There is almost nothing in your garden that cannot be used in one of these sauces.<br />This is just a great cookbook in all respects!	2003-06-11
US	38548391	R3PDGH6UEDS8KV	0312169825	715260756	Rhodes: The Race for Africa	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Solid study of moral ambiguity	Antony Thomas states up front that he is certainly no fan of Cecil Rhodes, and from that statement, the reader might expect to be treated to a real chop job.  Instead, one gets a remarkably even-handed treatment of Rhodes.  It would be easy simply to characterize Rhodes as evil, but to Thomas' credit, he does not take the easy way out.  He is more than prepared to exam what can be best described as Rhodes' moral ambiguity.<br />I would not call Rhodes amoral in the strictist sense.  He knew well enough when he was doing wrong to want to conceal his activities.  Nor would I call him a ruthless pragmatist.  His devotion to his friends was quite real, and in the case of Neville Pickering's death, Rhodes' all-consuming grief ultimately kept him from purchasing land that he knew was rich in gold.  His personal feelings kept him from making a second, utterly massive, fortune in gold.  That is hardly the action of pragmatist.<br />Trying to figure out what made Rhodes tick becomes trickier the more one examines his deeds.  Even Thomas is vexed at times at how easily Rhodes moves from one alliance to another, and completely reverses his stands on issues such as native rights.  By the time of his death, Rhodes was lionized throughout the British Empire as being in the vanguard of imperialists, but Thomas shows that for most of his career, he was strictly pursuing his own economic and political interests, and did not cloak himself in the gard of British Imperialism until it was absolutely necessary.<br />Thomas does not only focus on Rhodes.  He demonstrates that most of the men that Rhodes dealt with could be, at times, just as morally ambiguous as he.  Rhodes knew well that every man has his price, and demonstrated it again and again.  Men in positions of power were irreconcilably opposed to Rhodes & his plans, at least until Rhodes made the right offer.  The Victorians would had one believe that they were paragons of virtue and rectitude, but reading of Rhodes' dealings with them makes such a claim hardly believable.<br />At the end of his life, Rhodes began to appreciate that a man's legacy would not be measured in the wealth that he amassed or in the deals that he made.  For Rhodes, that realization came too late.  Most of his accomplishments are now hardly remembered, and the man himself is remembered now more with scorn and revulsion that awe and respect.  Yet Rhodes was a remarkable man.  Thomas makes the distinction between being a remarkable man and a great man, and in this finds the true tragedy of Rhodes' life:  he had the talents to be a truly great man for all ages, but instead used these talents strictly to serve his own interests.<br />The book is quite easy to read, and is well-organized.  To Thomas' credit, he does not report all the stories about Rhodes as gospel, and if the historical record is unclear on certain matters, he will say so.  He also examines the conclusions made by other scholars on certain subjects and deals with this quite competently.  I was pleasantly suprised, since he is not a historian by profession.  I do note with interest that some events (such as the famous story of Rhodes dumping loads of diamonds into a bucket, just after Barney Barnato has purchased them) are reported by Thomas in the book as being stories which may or may not be true and cannot be verified by the historical record, but are presented in the \\"Masterpiece Theatre\\" production as being true.  It is a good indication that in the book at least, Thomas is trying his best to be a responsible scholar.th them makes such a claim hardly believable.<br />At the end of his life, Rhodes began to appreciate that a man's legacy would not be measured in the wealth that he amassed or in the deals that he made.  For Rhodes, that realization came too late.  Most of his accomplishments are now hardly remembered, and the man himself is remembered now more with scorn and revulsion that awe and respect.  Yet Rhodes was a remarkable man.  Thomas makes the distinction between being a remarkable man and a great man, and in this finds the true tragedy of Rhodes' life:  he had the talents to be a truly great man for all ages, but instead used these talents strictly to serve his own interests.<br />The book is quite easy to read, and is well-organized.  To Thomas' credit, he does not report all the stories about Rhodes as gospel, and if the historical record is unclear on certain matters, he will say so.  He also examines the conclusions made by other scholars on certain subjects and deals with this quite competently.  I was pleasantly suprised, since he is not a historian by profession.  I do note with interest that some events (such as the famous story of Rhodes dumping loads of diamonds into a bucket, just after Barney Barnato has purchased them) are reported by Thomas in the book as being stories which may or may not be true and cannot be verified by the historical record, but are presented in the \\"Masterpiece Theatre\\" production as being true.  It is a good indication that in the book at least, Thomas is trying his best to be a responsible scholar.	2003-05-24
US	38548391	RHVT6FOLZR7LZ	0300078757	425943505	Richard II (The English Monarchs Series)	Books	3	20	21	N	N	Thorough but definitely not for laymen!	If you are not well-versed in this period of English history, then reading this book could be a struggle at times.  It is not the best-organized book I have read; there were several times I had to re-read for 4-5 pages to make sure I was following the narrative properly.  Also, the author assumes that the reader knows the subject thoroughly.  Do you know the difference between the Great Seal, the Privy Seal and the signet?  The difference between scutage and amercements?  That the names Duke of Lancaster, Prince John, John of Gaunt and Gaunt all refer to the same person (sometimes several being used on the same page)?  The difference of a \\"grant in fee simple\\" and a \\"grant in tail male?\\"  The author assumes you do, for he offers no details.  If you are in the dark about this, you will remain utterly confused at times with what appears to be meaningless terminology.<br /><br />Also, echoing another reviewer, the author bases a number of assumptions on some rather sparse documentation.  He may make an assertion and in the next paragraph observe that there is virtually nothing in the historical record to indicate one way or another what exactly was going on.  Is the author then simply guessing at times?  This is a little troubling for the reader.<br />The narrative can get unnecessarily tangled at time as the author gets bogged down in what seems to me to be minute details.  This was a compelling period of English history, a prelude to the War of the Roses, where one witnessed a struggle for power between Parliament and the King, as well the struggle within the royal family itself, a struggle that would erupt more violently two generations later.  This story would seem to provide a gripping narrative, but at times the prose is positively leaden.  Be warned, the words do not flow gracefully from Saul's pen.<br /><br />If you are able to stick with it, you will find this book to quite informative, but I cannot believe that this book could not have been a bit more accessible.ble.	2003-04-20
US	38548391	RTEGPE4AYL4R5	076151287X	117893911	A Question of Character: A Life of John F. Kennedy	Books	4	35	43	N	N	No hero worship, but not a chop-job either	As he cuts through the myths of Camelot, Thomas Reeves could have been content with dragging the name of JFK through the mud.  That certainly would have been easy enough to do;  all the affairs, the dubious origin of the family fortune, the murky ties with organized crime...it all has the makings of a wonderful chop-job, a character assassination.<br />However, Reeves rises above this.  He acknowledges that good morals do not necessarily make for a good president, and that an effective president does not always have a scandal-free private life.  This book was written before the Clinton presidency, which would have made for an interesting comparison.<br />Reeves is not content to throw one prurient revelation after another at the reader; that is Kitty Kelly's job.  He is interested in good history.  How did these moral defects apply to the man's ability to be an effective president, and how did the president's effectiveness have an impact on the course of our nation's history?<br />Reeves believes that important theme here isn't the questionable behavior in and of itself, but the fact that Kennedy's lack of any real commitment to anything but the acquisition and wielding of power ultimately made him an overall weak president.  Despite Democratic control of Congress, Kennedy could get barely 25% of his legislation passed in Congress in 1962-63.  Members of Congress had little regard for the man as a leader, and his luke-warm commitment on various issues did little to induce the Congress to act on his legislation.  Compare that with LBJ, whose legislative success rate and mastery of Congress between 1963 and 1966 stands in stark contrast.<br />Reeves does observe that JFK was beginning to grow into the office by the time of his death, but stops short of predicting a glorious Kennedy legacy had the man lived.  It was far from a given that JFK could have won re-election in 1964, and Reeves knows this.<br />Overall, this is an excellent example of a measured, critical biography that contributes to the scholarly dialogue, rather than simply being a \\"tell-all\\" book.graphy that contributes to the scholarly dialogue, rather than simply being a \\"tell-all\\" book.	2003-04-20
US	38548391	R1MTN9SEI8IG3K	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	3	4	14	N	N	I Wish I Could Believe Him	I don't doubt that there is the possibility of a right-wing conspiracy.  I enjoy seeing people like Ann Coulter get trashed in print...to a point.  I would just rather have the source of this information be someone with a bit more credibility than Mr. Brock.<br />When all is said and done, one is left with the impression that the only cause David Brock truly believes in is David Brock, and that totally undermines his credibility.  I would like to believe him...but his rather compromised background makes it impossible.  The result leaves the liberal reader more unsatisfied than anything else.	2003-04-06
US	38548391	R28OPYO5EVJTJW	0465014003	649842792	Conquests and Cultures: An International History	Books	2	50	96	N	N	Ideology aside...this is mediocre history	I picked up this book without having read any of Sowell's columns or other books, so I didn't have any strong, pre-conceived notions on his political outlook.  My objections aren't necessarily with his conclusions.  Geography and natural resources have a profound impact on a culture's development?  No kidding.  However, this is hardly an original thesis.<br />In fact, there isn't much original thought here at all.  Sowell seems to be some sort of synthesis of Toynbee and Henry Thomas Buckle, using statistic after statistic to prove that some cultures are inherently superior to others.  Agree or disagree, it is up to the reader...but this has been done before.<br />The methodology here can try one's patience.  When one tries to wrap up the whole of human historical development in one grand, unifying theory, the result is grossly simplified history.  An attempt to explain the differences between the Yankee North and the Antebellum South in the US, for example, by drawing links to the Roman occupation of Britain can really tax one's patience.  There may be a point to be made here, but it isn't that simple.  Also, Sowell's compulsive use of statistics to prove his points borders on silliness at times, and is compounded by his inconsistency.  To demonstrate the superiority of one culture to another, he might cite the fact that one nationality's average height was greater than another...presumably showing that nutrition and medical care were superior, thus producing taller citizens.  However, that particular statistic is not applied to all of the cultures that Sowell discusses; statistics are only useful when they are consistently applied, and Sowell should know that.  Otherwise, he appears only to be picking and choosing the statistics which might bolster his argument, and that only tends to undermine his whole thesis.<br />I am not particularly a fan of Better History Through Lots of Statistics.  It ignores the human element, the fact that individuals can have a great impact on the flow of history.  A great leader can overcome his nation's disadvantages just as a poor leader can squander his nation's superiority.  Capable leadership can slow the inevitable decline of a culture.  This is an element that Sowell largely chooses to ignore.<br />In fact, as one looks through the bibliography, it is apparent that Sowell depends almost entirely on almanacs and similar sources.  Perhaps this is why this book often reads like an almanac rather than like a coherent history.mpact on the flow of history.  A great leader can overcome his nation's disadvantages just as a poor leader can squander his nation's superiority.  Capable leadership can slow the inevitable decline of a culture.  This is an element that Sowell largely chooses to ignore.<br />In fact, as one looks through the bibliography, it is apparent that Sowell depends almost entirely on almanacs and similar sources.  Perhaps this is why this book often reads like an almanac rather than like a coherent history.	2003-04-05
US	38548391	R4Y9XZT36TEV5	0393052028	692640862	Napoleon: His Wives and Women	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Entertaining supplement to your Napoleonic collection	Covering a somewhat neglected aspect of Napoleonic studies, Hibbert has produced an entertaining and readable study of the women in Napol&eacute;on's life, including his wives, mistresses, one-night stands, mother, and sisters.<br />It is fun to read, and informative in its own limited way.  If you are expecting a comprehensive examination of the Napoleonic Era, then this is not the book for you.  Its very subject matter leaves it somewhat restricted.  However it is worth reading nonetheless.  It may add a dimension to Napol&eacute;on that was previously unknown to you.	2003-04-02
US	38548391	R3CRU172J3RS01	157284034X	110192983	1,001 Low-Fat Soups & Stews: From Elegant Starters to Hearty One-Pot Meals	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	One of the easiest cookbooks I have used	Even if the recipes weren't low-fat, I would still enthusiastically recommend this cookbook.  I have yet to try a recipe out of this cookbook that hasn't been a breeze to prepare and also tastes wonderful.<br />Who cares if it is low-fat?  It won't occur to you as you try the various soups and stews.  Simply enjoy it for the delicious meal that it truly is.	2003-04-02
US	38548391	R3TX5OJ4DZO1MN	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	1	24	30	N	N	Change happens?  No kidding.	It amazes me how stating the obvious can lead to a hugely successful book.  Hey, life is full of changes --- well, how about that?  It isn't like this is a huge revelation to most people.  We have all had our highs and lows; such is the human condition.<br />What makes me regard this book as a pile of garbage is the idea that managers can somehow lull their hapless employees into some sort of reflective passivity just before dropping some bomb on them.  I know that my first reaction, when my manager plopped this pile on my desk, was one of cynicism more than anything else.  Trying to soften the blow, eh?  If you are a manager looking to frighten or irritate employees, then this is the book for you.<br />Also, the idea that \\"change\\" is something to be accepted as inevitable and part of the ebb and flow of life offends me.  Should the Nazis have handed this book out at Auschwitz to the inmates as they entered the camp?  \\"Arbeit Macht Frei\\" equals \\"Who Moved My Cheese\\" as far as I am concerned.  Change may be inevitable, but it doesn't mean that sometimes you shouldn't fight like hell to keep change in its place.	2003-03-14
US	38548391	R1F5XD8INGDTNR	0395827590	727693062	The Chief: The Life of William Randolph Hearst	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fairly balanced and informative	For most people who know Hearst only through &quot;Citizen Kane,&quot; this will be an informative book.  Thankfully, Nasaw keeps his discussion of &quot;Kane&quot; restricted to a somewhat brief chapter towards the end of the book.  In the larger context of Hearst's life, the &quot;Kane&quot; episode is a minor chapter at best.<br />I suppose enough bad things have been written about Hearst that Nasaw did not feel the need to write about all of the warts.  He seems more sympathetic than is necessary towards a man who, among other things, was not a particularly good father, held whatever political views were convenient for him at the time, and who was wastefully excessive to a stunning degree.  When writing about Hearst's bankruptcy and subsequent re-organization of assets under a trustee, Nasaw almost seems to feel that Hearst is being treated unfairly at times.<br />The one thing missing from the book that I would have enjoyed is a more thorough discussion of the competition between Hearst and men such as the Pulitzers, McCormick, and Ochs.  The source of the man's influence was his newspapers, after all.  A more in-depth discussion of the newspaper industry would not have been out of place.<br />All in all, this is an informative book, as Hearst becomes more a part of history.	2003-03-09
US	38548391	R9BL7QQ74JND9	0767904575	339241053	The Emperors of Chocolate: Inside the Secret World of Hershey and Mars	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An engaging book but somewhat lacking in depth.	This certainly was an entertaining book to read.  It is well-written and is informative up to a point.  I did find the descriptions of how the Mars Corporation conducts its operations, with a quality control bordering on the obsessive and corporate offices utterly lacking in individual touches, to be quite fascinating.<br />However, this is another good example of a journalist trying to write history.  This is a good narrative, but like most journalists, Ms. Brenner is at her best when simply narrating a tale rather than trying to interpret the overall grand picture.  This journalistic approach has also resulted in a book that is out of date in less than three years.  The recent dramatic events in the chocolate industry, what with Nestl&eacute; very nearly buying out Hershey earlier this year, heralds a new chapter in the industry's history which has yet to be completed.  While that attempted acquisition was unsuccessful, Hershey's future remains very much in question.  This book obviously cannot address every unfolding event, but because it is a narrative history going up to about 1998-1999, it leaves a reader dangling somewhat.<br />As far as Nestl&eacute; is concerned, I am suprised that the author did not address in more detail that company's increasingly aggressive position in the American markets, because Nestl&eacute; has definitely made itself a major player in America in the last 15-20 years.  The fact that it had the assets available to attempt an acquisition of Hershey bears this out, but you would not fully get this impression from reading the book.<br />I am also a little doubtful as to the value of the book regarding the Mars corporation, as it appears that most of the modern information comes from a single 1989 interview the author conducted.  It is a challenge to extrapolate the subsequent decade on the basis of one interview and little else.<br />That being said, I hope that the author gives a revised edition in a few years, because she is an entertaining author, and this was a fun book to read.  I would give it 3 1/2 stars because of the very good writing.this was a fun book to read.   I would give it 3 1/2 stars because of the very good writing.	2002-12-12
US	38548391	RKMW6THZ2I1UE	0679776427	482228140	A Struggle for Power: The American Revolution	Books	5	31	32	N	N	An excellent examination of history unfolding	This is an example of history at its best, in my eyes.  Too often, people are tempted to view an event in a vacuum, without examining the causes of the event in question.  Beyond that, they more frequently fail to place the event in context with the currents of history.<br />Certainly nobody can accuse Draper of such a thing.  The book begins as the 7-Years War is coming to an end, and controversy rages in Great Britain as to what territories the British are going to claim from France as spoils.  This is hardly unusual; conventional history holds that the American Revolution was a direct result of the 7-years War, and efforts by the British government to recoup some of the massive expenditures made during the war.  Draper could simply have left it at that, and shown how relations between Britain and the colonies deteriorated over the next decade until the colonist finally revolted.<br />However, Draper correctly sees that both the controversies of the 1760's and the ultimate revolution in the 1770's are merely symptons of a larger and more severe malady that plagued the British imperial system for nearly a century prior to the American Revolution, namely how the colonies, which were growing more populous and prosperous with each generation, could remain subject to Great Britain.  As the colonies grew stronger, how could they be expected to follow dictates of a country that was no longer superior to them in power?  He examines the history, as it unfolds from generation to generation, of the balance of power between Britain and its colonies.<br />Draper does an excellent job of this.  To me, this is history at its most magnificent, as the reader sees the forces of history moving through time, with each event or trend influencing successive events and trends.  The examination of the writings and speeches of various leaders and thinkers show that it was apparent that a power struggle between Britain and the colonies, in one form or another, was inevitable.  Many people on both sides of the Atlantic could see this even in the late 17th century.<br />Draper also examines how some people attempted, ultimately without success, to avoid the inevitable, through a variety of schemes and proposals.  People could see what ultimately would be the result, but tried nonetheless to reach an arrangement that would keep the colonies from breaking away from the mother country.  The currents of history proved to be too strong, however, and events moved along towards their inevitable conclusion.<br />Also fascinating was to see the evolution of the colonists' perception of themselves and how they related to Britain.  At the beginning of the 1760's, there was hardly a colonist that could conceive (or admit the truth to himself) of outright independence from Britain.  With each succeeding event, the colonists' thinking evolves, and once loyal subjects ultimately become revolutionaries.  By contrast, some individuals such as John Dickinson, begin ahead of the revolutionary curve, but because their positions do not evolve, they ultimately are left behind and are perceived almost as counter-revolutionaries.<br />On the British side, Draper examines the British government's approach towards the increasingly threatening colonies.  The policy of Robert Walpole from the 1720's to the early 1740's was simply not to press the issue of Parliamentary primacy.  Better to let a future generation make a mistake with the colonies than us, appears to have been the reasoning.  By the 1760's, the issues were becoming harder to avoid, but at that time Britain had the misfortune to be ruled by a series of unstable and short-lived governments.  Without a coherent and measured colonial policy, the various British governments succeeded only in hastening the inevitable.<br />Draper quite skillfully weaves together a multitude of historical forces as they unfold, as he moves back and forth across the Atlantic, and down through the succeeding generations.  Some readers have found this book to be boring.  I have to admit that it took me three tries to make it through the book; however, I have read it three times since then and do not understand how I could have been bogged down.  Draper's writing is certainly readable enough.<br />If you are looking for a Stephen Ambrose-style of history, with lots of narrative, then keep on looking, because this book will be far too cerebral for you.  However, if you enjoy a good intellectual examination of history at its conceptual level, I enthusiastically recommend this book.ound this book to be boring.  I have to admit that it took me three tries to make it through the book; however, I have read it three times since then and do not understand how I could have been bogged down.  Draper's writing is certainly readable enough.<br />If you are looking for a Stephen Ambrose-style of history, with lots of narrative, then keep on looking, because this book will be far too cerebral for you.  However, if you enjoy a good intellectual examination of history at its conceptual level, I enthusiastically recommend this book.	2002-11-07
US	38548391	RH3VSKT8KQJVH	0929539893	387975750	The Pastoral Years of Rev. Anthony HENCKEL, 1692-1717	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice little biography	Certainly this is not going to be a best-selling biography any time soon.  Who would be interested in this other than Henckel descendants, and historians specializing in Lutheran history (and perhaps the early history of Germans in America)?  Not many, I suppose.<br />However, Anthony Henckel is an important figure in this country's religious history, for a variety of reasons.  In the years following his death, members of the Henckel clan would come to dominate the Lutheran religion in some regions of the country.  Five generations would produce more Lutheran and Methodist clergymen than you can shake a stick at.<br />For people wondering why Anthony Henckel came to the New World in the first place, then this is an excellent book to read, as it goes into the numerous conflicts surrounding Henckel in his homeland parish, and shows how ultimately he was forced to leave the region for his own safety and well-being.<br />There is nothing earth-shattering in this book, no deep historical analysis of Henckel's life and times.  However, as a 11th & 12th generation descendent of Henckel (gotta love those intermarriages), I found this to be a thoroughly enjoyable book to read, and informative enough to be satisfying.	2002-08-29
US	38548391	R17L7XGM23NWMF	0804119996	107020596	Miss Match	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Blecch!	I have to admit that this is not typically a book that I would pick up and read, but my wife enjoys this genre, and even she gave a verdict of &quot;dumb&quot; and &quot;badly-written.&quot;  She brings home lots of books, like the Stephanie Plum series, which I enjoy, so it isn't like I am a complete stick in the mud.  But it hurt even to skim through this book.<br />It was painful from the very beginning.  There certainly is no doubt that, when all is said and done, the two characters will finally realize that they were destined for each other, blah blah blah, etc etc etc...so why are we even bothering with everything in between?  She could have made it a little less obvious, perhaps.<br />Does anyone still read Eliot's &quot;Middlemarch?&quot;  The reader would assume that Dorothea Brooke and Tertius Lydgate will ultimately end up together, because it was so obvious that they were made for each other.  But it doesn't end that way, which is why, I suppose that &quot;Middlemarch&quot; is a classic, and &quot;Miss Match&quot; is the frothy, lightweight result of a tree's ultimate sacrifice.<br />I also couldn't stand the clumsy attempts at witty repartee, a la Tracy and Hepburn.  It just makes me cringe to read it.  Do people really talk like that?  I've never met any, and after reading this book, I hope I never do.<br />If you absolutely have to fill your brain with this tripe, do yourself a favor:  save yourself the money and check it out from the library.  Then take that money, go to the bookstore, and buy a copy of &quot;Middlemarch.&quot;  It will be a rewarding investment.	2002-08-08
US	38548391	R241Z8MJRC3IOY	0878338209	335238671	Shoeless Joe and Ragtime Baseball	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Poorly written dishwater biography, not worth reading	I might as well have read the back of a baseball card as have read the book, for all the insight into Jackson's personality it gave me.  This book simply read like an extended sports column; I suppose that is all well and good if sports columns are all you ever read, but I expect more from a biography than a collection of blow-by-blow accounts of the games Jackson played in.  The man, after all, spent 13 of his 62 years playing in the big leagues.  There is scant discussion of his later years.  Does Frommer suppose that the reader is not interested in how Jackson came to terms with his status as a disgraced former big-league ballplayer?  One is left with the impression that Frommer did not even attempt to scratch the surface when dealing with Jackson's later years.<br />Couple this with Frommer's clumsy writing style, lack of citations, and bizarre style of quotation, and one is left with a book that was not worth the time spent reading it.  I was left with no greater insight into Jackson the man than before I first picked up the book.	2002-04-27
US	38548391	RCS8P7UDBTHLS	0520216121	865947898	Denying History: Who Says the Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say It?	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Excellent in every respect	Passions tend to boil with the subject of Holocaust denial, so one would expect, when reading this book, to see some rather heated language.  However it does not happen; Shermer and Grobman are cool and methodical as they tackle this thorny subject.<br />This is as valuable a source on historical methodology as I have seen in quite some time.  The authors could simply have dealt with the issue of Holocaust denial, but they choose also to discuss the very nature of the science of history, and how proper historical methodology must be adhered to if the past is to be protected from distortion.  The authors draw clear boundaries between legitimate revision and deceptive denial posing as revision.  \\"It is not enough for deniers to concoct an alternative explanation that amounts to nothing more than denying each piece of free-standing evidence.  They must proffer a theory that not only explains all of the evidence but does so in a manner superior to the present theory.  This they have not done.\\" (p. 172)  That is as concise an explanation of what defines true revision as you will find.<br />The authors methodically confront each of the deniers' contentions, and refute them one by one.  The deniers' sloppy methodology (deliberate or otherwise), inconsistent standards regarding evidence, or simple distortion of the historical record are exposed for all to see.  The authors accomplish this without resorting to any name-calling.  They let the evidence (or lack thereof) speak for itself.<br />The authors also examine the background of the deniers, showing that the deniers are far from being simple seekers of truth.  A clear agenda is at work, and the deniers' claims that they are simple students of history, trying to clarify the historical record, simply doesn't wash.<br />There have criticisms in other reviews that the authors do not discuss the millions of other victims of the Holocaust, but this is hardly the point of the book.  The authors make it clear and explicit that they are dealing with the issue of Holocaust denial and the distortion of history, and are not embarking on an extended discussion of the nature of the Holocaust itself.<br />It is evident to me that the importance of the sanctity of history, and protecting it from distortion for ideological purposes, is as important to the authors as the specific subject of Holocaust denial.  The final chapter, \\"The Rape of History,\\" mentions the Holocaust only at the end of a lengthy discussion of revision versus denial.  The conclusion of this chapter reads, \\"Whatever else it might be, history is the primary story of the storytelling animal, the narrative of our past that offers meaning to our present and, ultimately, our future.\\"  (p. 256)  Distorting that past robs us of our meaning today.<br />No matter your field of interest, if you are a student of history you will find this book invaluable.hey are dealing with the issue of Holocaust denial and the distortion of history, and are not embarking on an extended discussion of the nature of the Holocaust itself.<br />It is evident to me that the importance of the sanctity of history, and protecting it from distortion for ideological purposes, is as important to the authors as the specific subject of Holocaust denial.  The final chapter, \\"The Rape of History,\\" mentions the Holocaust only at the end of a lengthy discussion of revision versus denial.  The conclusion of this chapter reads, \\"Whatever else it might be, history is the primary story of the storytelling animal, the narrative of our past that offers meaning to our present and, ultimately, our future.\\"  (p. 256)  Distorting that past robs us of our meaning today.<br />No matter your field of interest, if you are a student of history you will find this book invaluable.	2002-04-27
US	38548391	R1AVRIMHOBN2G1	089190526X	475337678	John Randolph	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Beautifully written chop job	Anyone picking up this book should know from the start that this is as about as unobjective a biography as one is bound to find.  Henry Adams has multiple scores to settle, on behalf of John Adams and John Quincy Adams (his great-grandfather and grandfather, respectively), with John Randolph of Roanoke (who never had a kind word for either of the Adams presidents). The reader would be strongly advised to read both the introduction by Robert McColley, as well as the notes on the text (located at the end of the book) which deals with specific matters of interpretation in the book.<br />Adams uses this book to savage Randolph at every opportunity.  The bulk of the book follows Randolph in his congressional career up through 1806, when he broke with the Jefferson administration over the administration's attempt to pay France two million dollars to secure Western Florida from Spain.  Up until 1806, as Adams puts it, Randolph was the \\"spoiled child of his party and recognised mouthpiece of the administration.\\" (p. 118)  Randolph was in the thick of things up to that point, including the Louisiana Purchase, the approval of which he helped shephard through the House of Representatives.  He was also given the responsibility for the February 1805 impeachment of Samuel Chase, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court.  At that point in history, the question of the Executive Branch's authority over the Judicial Branch was far from settled.  A successful prosecution of Justice Chase might well have changed the history of Executive-Judicial relations, but Randolph botched the job thoroughly.  Adams can barely contain his glee when describing how unequal to the task Randolph was.<br />The bungled Chase impeachment increasingly made Randolph an embarrassment to the Jefferson administration.  Randolph's political prospects were damaged beyond repair after 1806, and from that point on, as he became increasingly erratic, was on the periphery of the American political scene.  He quarrelled, at one point or another, with every administration from Jefferson to Andrew Jackson.  Adams devotes only 70 pages to Randolph's life from 1806 until his death in 1833.  It is evident at this point that Adams is more interested in directing criticism at Jefferson and his successors in the Virginia Dynasty than he is at studying the life of Randolph.<br />Adams does make good points in his book, especially regarding the notions of states' rights.  Coventional wisdom holds that Randolph was one the early advocates of the states' rights philosophy that John C. Calhoun subsequently embraced, but Adams argues persuasively that actions such as the Louisiana Purchase and the protection by the federal government of slavery (such as the Fugitive Slave Act) were in themselves encroachments on the rights of individual states and helped further the centralization of government in the United States.  Far from being a traditional states' rights advocate, Adams contends, Randolph did a great deal to undermine the notion of states' rights as it existed in 1789.<br />Despite the rather venomous nature of the book, it is none the less a wonderful piece of literature that is worth reading.  Adams' skills as a writer are evident throughout.  The three stars represents a dual rating:  5 stars for the quality of the writing, 1 star for the utter lack of objectivity...although what could the reader seriously expect anyway?d, at one point or another, with every administration from Jefferson to Andrew Jackson.  Adams devotes only 70 pages to Randolph's life from 1806 until his death in 1833.  It is evident at this point that Adams is more interested in directing criticism at Jefferson and his successors in the Virginia Dynasty than he is at studying the life of Randolph.<br />Adams does make good points in his book, especially regarding the notions of states' rights.  Coventional wisdom holds that Randolph was one the early advocates of the states' rights philosophy that John C. Calhoun subsequently embraced, but Adams argues persuasively that actions such as the Louisiana Purchase and the protection by the federal government of slavery (such as the Fugitive Slave Act) were in themselves encroachments on the rights of individual states and helped further the centralization of government in the United States.  Far from being a traditional states' rights advocate, Adams contends, Randolph did a great deal to undermine the notion of states' rights as it existed in 1789.<br />Despite the rather venomous nature of the book, it is none the less a wonderful piece of literature that is worth reading.  Adams' skills as a writer are evident throughout.  The three stars represents a dual rating:  5 stars for the quality of the writing, 1 star for the utter lack of objectivity...although what could the reader seriously expect anyway?	2002-04-24
US	38548391	RN9FD96IOEIDR	0393322920	932833170	The Holocaust on Trial	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Journalistic account somewhat lacking in depth	Make no mistake, this is an entertaining read, but as far as this book's long-term contribution to Holocaust literature is concerned, I have my doubts.<br />Guttenplan does a fine job giving a blow-by-blow account of the trial, and provides entertaining character sketches of all of the participants.  He is even pretty even-handed in his treatment of David Irving, who probably doesn't deserve it.<br /><br />However, the book suffers the same shortcomings of most books written by journalists who are trying to write history.  Journalism by its very nature is about reporting the events as they unfold.  There may be analysis present, but there is difficulty in seeing the larger historical picture.  This trial is not even two years in the past, and was less than a year old when the book went to press.  The last chapter in this saga has yet to be written, obviously.  In ten years, what will the value of this book be?  That is hard to say.<br /><br />For me, in many ways the most interesting aspect of this book is the space Guttenplan devotes to the question, \\"Is the Holocaust the property of the Jews?\\" (p. 15)  The first and last chapters of this book deal with the nature of the Holocaust, and how its interpretation has evolved.  Clearly Guttenplan is not happy with the tendency of some Jewish writers to discourage any sort of re-evaluation of the nature of the Holocaust.  A good example is his account (pp. 73-74) of the reaction to Arno Mayer's book \\"Why Did the Heavens Not Darken?\\"  Writers such as Daniel Goldhagen took violent exception to Mayer's \\"joint consideration of Nazi anti-Semitism and anti-Communism.\\" (p. 74)  Rather than debate the issue, Goldhagen simply excoriated and insulted Mayer.  Goldhagen's name pops up regularly in this book; his book \\"Hitler's Willing Executioners\\" is referred to as \\"an extended polemic\\" that puts forth a \\"simple-minded theory\\" that German anti-Semitism is culturally transmitted. (p. 214)  He seems to put Goldhagen on the same level as David Irving at times.  Most of this doesn't have much to do with the trial itself, so it interesting to see how often Guttenplan makes reference to it.  It becomes pretty obvious that Guttenplan and Goldhagen have crossed swords before, and that this book in some ways represents the latest salvo in an ongoing war.<br /><br />Reading this book is by no means a waste of one's time, but read it now, rather than in the next half dozen years.  By that time it will be out of date.as David Irving at times.  Most of this doesn't have much to do with the trial itself, so it interesting to see how often Guttenplan makes reference to it.  It becomes pretty obvious that Guttenplan and Goldhagen have crossed swords before, and that this book in some ways represents the latest salvo in an ongoing war.<br /><br />Reading this book is by no means a waste of one's time, but read it now, rather than in the next half dozen years.  By that time it will be out of date.	2002-04-07
US	38548391	R3SNUM3CVG20LM	1559705841	390462195	Roanoke: Solving the Mystery of the Lost Colony	Books	1	16	24	N	N	Poorly-conceived book about a poorly-conceived expedition	My wife...brought it home but never read it; I count her as the luckier of the two of us.  I had the misfortune to pick it up and read it, and would have written it off as an unfortunate waste of a few days of reading...Has historical methodology sunk to such a depth that trained teachers cannot recognize the sloppy effort that this book represents?<br /><br />The flaws in this book are numerous.  The most obvious defect is the writing itself, which for the first half of the book consists of annoying incomplete sentences.  There is hardly a complete sentence to be found in the first several chapters, with the exception of Miller's quoting of other sources.  Evidently Miller considers this a form of dramatic, breathless narrative --- or something like that.  Perhaps this comes from background in television documentaries.  Sacrificing coherence for the sake of drama does not help the reader, it only distracts the reader.  There were several times when I was ready to launch this book across the room after one incomplete sentence too many.<br /><br />The wretched prose may be the most obvious flaw, but it is far from the most serious.  Miller compares her investigation to the investigation of a murder, but her investigation is flawed from the very beginning.<br /><br />Her argument is as follows:  high-ranking enemies of Sir Walter Raleigh, specifically Sir Francis Walsingham (Elizabeth I's intelligence chief), cobbled together an elaborate conspiracy which would result in the inevitable failure of the Roanoke Colony in 1587.  The colony was sent out to the New World under circumstances that would mean disaster, and attempts to provide relief were prevented.<br /><br />Much of Miller's contention is based on a letter written to Richard Hakluyt in 1594 by the governor of the colony, John White.  Time and time again, Miller returns to this letter, where White blames numerous individuals for the failure to the colony.  In fact, the only person making accusations is John White,  and this should raise some suspicions for Miller.  She is, after all, conducting a murder investigation.  Should she not suspect the motive of the main accuser?  \\"Is White, in fact, guilty of a crime?\\" (p. 20)  However, she simply leaves it that.  \\"Not according to his own testimony\\" \\"...his concerns appear concrete.\\"  (p. 20)  White is innocent because he says he is innocent, and that is that, as far as Miller is concerned.  The notion that primary sources such as personal letters cannot be consider as gospel seems not to have occurred to her.<br /><br />As the sole survivor of a colony of which he was the governor, White has motive aplenty for spreading the blame around to others.  This letter cannot be considered reliable, yet Miller builds her entire case on it.  This leaves the whole book compromised from the very start.<br /><br />However, Miller is certainly ready to accuse other people of lying, and to dismiss unreliable evidence --- but only when it doesn't support her argument.  John Smith is accused of lying (p. 218) about the surviving colonists, as is Sir Ralph Lane (p. 104, p. 113).  Chief Powhatan shows Smith a musket barrel, a brass mortar, and pieces of iron, and says it is from the Roanoke colony.  Miller scoffs, \\"hardly proof --- the items could have come in trade from anywhere.\\" (p. 224)<br />She is only skeptical when dealing with the evidence that contradicts her argument.  When it suits her interest, she is more than happy to indulge in wild conjecture.<br /><br />For example, she puts forth the argument that the Roanoke colonists were Separatists.  At one point she states, \\"Without concrete proof, we have nothing more than a theory than that the Lost Colony was a congregation of Separatists.\\" (p. 51)  Conjecture without evidence follows, and then Miller states, \\"We have made a case from the evidence available that the Lost Colonists were Separatists.\\"  (p. 53)  No evidence is provided, nor does Miller address possible flaws in this theory, like the fact that most of the families of the colonists remained in England.  She claims the wives and children were preparing to rejoin their husbands (p.54) but no proof is offered at all.  This only one example of many.<br /><br />In fact, Miller never addresses other possibilities for why the colony failed.  Her theory is the only viable theory, to read her book.  However, one can read in her own book about the several disastrous expeditions to the New World.  Humphrey Gilbert (Raleigh's brother) attempted expeditions in 1578 (p. 136) and 1583 (p. 157) which ended in disaster, with Gilbert drowning as a result of the 1583 expedition.  Walsingham and Francis Drake attempted, in 1581, an expedition to Brazil that \\"never gets off the ground.\\"  (p. 186).  The first expedition to Roanoke, commanded by Raleigh's cousin Richard Grenville in 1585, ended in disaster.  The first relief expedition to Roanoke in 1588 failed when french pirates attack the fleet (pp. 195-196).  The Jamestown colony, almost a full generation later, came near to failure.  Isn't it possible that the 1587 Roanoke expedition failed simply because it was very difficult to make a go of it in that time and place?  After all, no other expedition in the Virginia region before Jamestown was anything but a disaster; why should the 1587 expedition be any different?  Why must there be a conspiracy at work?<br /><br />By Miller's own admission, \\"There appears no plausible motive for wanting them dead.\\" (p. 133)  Nor does anyone seem to have a real motive.  She accuses Walsingham, who was deeply in debt after 1586, of coordinating the conspiracy in order to get ahold of estates granted to Raleigh by Elizabeth I. (pp. 182-183)  Sabotaging a colony half a world away seems to be a very bizarre, not to mention impractical, means of effecting this.  Ultimately it didn't work.  Walsingham died in 1590, and Raleigh got the queen angry at him because he secretly married one of her ladies-in-waiting.<br /><br />It is possible, quite believable in fact, that Walsingham, seeing an opportunity to undermine Raleigh, prevented him from sending a relief expedition to Roanoke in 1588, but Miller has indulged in so much speculation by this time in the book that nothing she says seems to have much credibility.<br /><br />The one section of the book that seems credible is where Miller discusses the ultimate fate of the colonists.  It is here that her background as an anthropologist shows it strengths.  She argues that the colonists were ultimately absorbed into the various Indian communities, and while there is still more speculation, she argues her points more persuasively and cogently.  She might have done well to limit herself to a scholarly monograph on this subject alone.  One can tell that she desparately wants to be considered as a serious scholar, but this horribly-researched and badly written book does not help her reputation.  Ultimately I believe this book will be discarded in favor of more balanced scholarship.  Just as Miller should not be accepting White's letter at face value, readers should not accept this book's contentions at face value.  Stop being so credulous!  Whatever happened to critical evaluation of material?ts remained in England.  She claims the wives and children were preparing to rejoin their husbands (p.54) but no proof is offered at all.  This only one example of many.    In fact, Miller never addresses other possibilities for why the colony failed.  Her theory is the only viable theory, to read her book.  However, one can read in her own book about the several disastrous expeditions to the New World.  Humphrey Gilbert (Raleigh's brother) attempted expeditions in 1578 (p. 136) and 1583 (p. 157) which ended in disaster, with Gilbert drowning as a result of the 1583 expedition.  Walsingham and Francis Drake attempted, in 1581, an expedition to Brazil that \\"never gets off the ground.\\"  (p. 186).  The first expedition to Roanoke, commanded by Raleigh's cousin Richard Grenville in 1585, ended in disaster.  The first relief expedition to Roanoke in 1588 failed when french pirates attack the fleet (pp. 195-196).  The Jamestown colony, almost a full generation later, came near to failure.  Isn't it possible that the 1587 Roanoke expedition failed simply because it was very difficult to make a go of it in that time and place?  After all, no other expedition in the Virginia region before Jamestown was anything but a disaster; why should the 1587 expedition be any different?  Why must there be a conspiracy at work?    By Miller's own admission, \\"There appears no plausible motive for wanting them dead.\\" (p. 133)  Nor does anyone seem to have a real motive.  She accuses Walsingham, who was deeply in debt after 1586, of coordinating the conspiracy in order to get ahold of estates granted to Raleigh by Elizabeth I. (pp. 182-183)  Sabotaging a colony half a world away seems to be a very bizarre, not to mention impractical, means of effecting this.  Ultimately it didn't work.  Walsingham died in 1590, and Raleigh got the queen angry at him because he secretly married one of her ladies-in-waiting.    It is possible, quite believable in fact, that Walsingham, seeing an opportunity to undermine Raleigh, prevented him from sending a relief expedition to Roanoke in 1588, but Miller has indulged in so much speculation by this time in the book that nothing she says seems to have much credibility.    The one section of the book that seems credible is where Miller discusses the ultimate fate of the colonists.  It is here that her background as an anthropologist shows it strengths.  She argues that the colonists were ultimately absorbed into the various Indian communities, and while there is still more speculation, she argues her points more persuasively and cogently.  She might have done well to limit herself to a scholarly monograph on this subject alone.  One can tell that she desparately wants to be considered as a serious scholar, but this horribly-researched and badly written book does not help her reputation.  Ultimately I believe this book will be discarded in favor of more balanced scholarship.  Just as Miller should not be accepting White's letter at face value, readers should not accept this book's contentions at face value.  Stop being so credulous!  Whatever happened to critical evaluation of material?	2002-03-30
US	38548391	R6S58W261MRIA	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	John Adams seems to have slipped into a crevasse in history for most of us, remembered more for having died on the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence than anything else.  David McCullough has given us a very engaging portrait of a man for whom being a US president was only a brief chapter in what was a very interesting life.<br />McCullough clearly likes Adams as an individual, much in the same way that he liked Harry S Truman.  Is it any accident that he has picked, as subjects for biographies, two of the more pugnacious individuals to occupy the White House?<br />Much to my satisfaction, both John and Abigail Adams are quoted frequently, through their letters.  It is refreshing to read the man's disarming candor in these letters, as he moves from a young untested school teacher to a revered living monument to the Revolutionary Age.  It is also touching to see how devoted the two Adams' were to each other, and how much each regarded the other as a partner on equal footing.  It is hard for McCullough to do justice to Abigail without giving her a biography in her own right.<br />If McCullough is to be faulted on any count, it is for cutting Adams a little too much slack.  The discussion of the Alien and Sedition Acts, which mark Adams' administration as distinctly as anything, is rather cursory.  McCullough concedes that Adams did little to oppose the legislation, but that is about the extent of his treatment.  He does a good job putting the Alien legislation in its proper context (the fear of impending war with France), but McCullough does not discuss the consequences of this legislation, and why it has come down through through history as one of the more odious assaults on civil liberties.  He also tends to gloss over Adams' tendency, late in life, to be rather jealous of the recognition of others' roles in the Revolution.  McCullough touches briefly on a 3-year series of diatribes Adams wrote to the one of the Boston newspapers, and then moves on.  Some of these letters show Adams' vanity, pettiness, and overall prickly nature at their worst.  McCullough would have done well to quote from this series.<br />On the other hand, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton could have been scorched much more severely than they were.  After reading Joseph Ellis (who seems to be more contemptuous of Jefferson with every passing day), one comes to expect rather vicious treatment of Jefferson by any Adams partisan, but McCullough manages to keep an even keel when discussing the Sage of Monticello.  Not being a big Jefferson fan, I don't mind it when someone savages his reputation, but a historian does that at the risk of losing perspective and becoming too partisan.  McCullough manages the balancing act well; it is clear that he is none too fond of Jefferson, but manages to keep a relatively open mind.  Hamilton, too, could have been villainized, as he helped undercut Adams' administration at every turn, but McCullough manages to avoid going overboard.<br />Overall, this is a well-written, entertaining book.  McCullough certainly does have a good command of narrative, and his powers of description are masterful.  I especially enjoyed his description of Adams' and Jefferson's vacation in the English countryside as much as anything I have read recently.  Praise be to David McCullough for giving this long-neglected historical figure a well-deserved biographical treatment.moves on.  Some of these letters show Adams' vanity, pettiness, and overall prickly nature at their worst.  McCullough would have done well to quote from this series.<BR>On the other hand, Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton could have been scorched much more severely than they were.  After reading Joseph Ellis (who seems to be more contemptuous of Jefferson with every passing day), one comes to expect rather vicious treatment of Jefferson by any Adams partisan, but McCullough manages to keep an even keel when discussing the Sage of Monticello.  Not being a big Jefferson fan, I don't mind it when someone savages his reputation, but a historian does that at the risk of losing perspective and becoming too partisan.  McCullough manages the balancing act well; it is clear that he is none too fond of Jefferson, but manages to keep a relatively open mind.  Hamilton, too, could have been villainized, as he helped undercut Adams' administration at every turn, but McCullough manages to avoid going overboard.<BR>Overall, this is a well-written, entertaining book.  McCullough certainly does have a good command of narrative, and his powers of description are masterful.  I especially enjoyed his description of Adams' and Jefferson's vacation in the English countryside as much as anything I have read recently.  Praise be to David McCullough for giving this long-neglected historical figure a well-deserved biographical treatment.	2002-03-20
US	38548391	R37SDK2M1YO3R1	067252659X	369619875	Invisible Armies: The Impact of Disease on American History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Disease can be entertaining in the right hands	In today's antiseptic society, it is difficult to fathom how vulnerable our species has been to the ravages of disease.  As Howard Simpson demonstrates in his book, a bad rash of typhus or yellow fever can cause the best-laid plans of mice and men to disintegrate into a hospital ward filled with disabled or dying soldiers.<br />The book covers the early colonial periods to the Spanish American War, when progress finally started being made in controlling epidemic disease amongst soldiers in armies.  Along the way, Simpson entertains us with one tale after another of military campaigns that collapse along with the sometimes thousands of soldiers, dying at a frightening pace from various epidemics.  Particularly important, in my view, is the utterly disastrous attempt by Napol&eacute;on to re-conquer the rebellious island of Haiti.  Although his troops easily rout the forces of the Haitians, they are quickly destroyed, by the tens of thousands, by yellow fever.  Napol&eacute;on's own brother-in-law numbers among the dead.  Napol&eacute;on had been planning to make Haiti his base for the re-establishment of a French colonial empire in the New World.  The catastrophic losses he experienced in Haiti convinced the emperor that the cost of the New World was too high, and he set in motion the events that would lead to the Louisiana Purchase.<br />Simpson is truly entertaining to read.  He has a good writing style, and a rather warped sense of humor, which makes reading even a grisly subject such as this a pleasure.  Don't miss his comments about the Indian tribe that throws dead animals and skins into a stream...upstream from an encampment of British troops that subsequently becomes mighty sick.  My wife and I laughed quite a bit over that section.<br />This book is both enjoyable and informative.  I heartily recommend it.	2002-02-23
US	38548391	RWOOZQ0ZAS4IW	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	3	8	14	N	N	A well-written but hardly comprehensive history.	This certainly was readable enough, but is it worthy of a Pulitzer?  Of the six essays in the book, not one offers a truly in-depth analysis of the subject at hand, and most of these subjects have been covered more thoroughly elsewhere.  Anyone wanting a more in-depth treatment of the Burr-Hamilton duel should consult Thomas Fleming's book &quot;Duel.&quot;  The Jefferson-Adams correspondence from 1812-1826 has been dealt with more times than one can count.<br />The core figures of this book are Jefferson, Adams, and Washington, with Madison and Hamilton being giving somewhat second billing.  Burr (with the exception of the duel) and Franklin are mentioned only in passing, so why their portaits appear on the cover is a mystery.<br />I found the chapter covering Washington's Farewell address to be the most informative of all the essays, but still lacking in what I consider the necessary depth.<br />Ellis' attitude towards Jefferson should come as no suprise to anyone who has read his work.  He is certainly not alone in his appraisal of Jefferson.  No doubt devotees to the Sage of Monticello will be irritated by this treatment.<br />I suppose that as an introduction to the history of post-Articles of Confederation United States, this book would serve its purpose.  Its prose flows along well enough, and its brevity will not frighten off the casual reader.  Will it be a permanent contribution to the scholarship of the period?  I rather doubt it.  Given the recent controversy surrounding Ellis, this was probably his last opportunity to contribute to the field of study.	2002-02-20
US	38548391	R1XL0EJIQTWZPX	0806131284	327107439	Agent of Destiny: The Life and Times of General Winfield Scott	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Deserves more in depth treatment	Eisenhower does an adequate enough job relating the details of Scott's campaigns, but that is about all that can be said for this biography.  A \\"life and times\\" it definitely isn't, since there is no attempt to examine in depth the political or social climate in which Scott was operating.<br /><br />His personal life is curiously absent from this book, as though his family was strictly a peripheral matter.  I am not even sure that his daughters are all listed by name in this book.  One has no inkling what ever happens to any of them, or what Scott's relations were with them.<br /><br />None of this helped in any way by Eisenhower's rather wooden prose.  He simply does not have a flair for making a book more readable, and with a larger-than-life character like Winfield Scott, this is a shame.  It would be nice to see a biographer like Robert V. Remini tackle this subject.	2002-01-18
