US	38592874	R1WXZJ3YTC7RE7	0804745099	163249976	Predicting Presidential Elections and Other Things (Stanford Business Books)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Title doesn't do this book justice	In the acknowledgement section of this book, Prof. Ray Fair notes that his kids talked him out of titling this book &quot;What Econometricians Can Do&quot; or &quot;Economterics Made Easy.&quot; Either of those titles would have actually been more descriptive than the admitedly accurate title of &quot;Predicting Presidential Elections and Other Things.&quot;<br />This book isn't really about predicting presidential elections -- even though it goes to great detail on how to do just that. This book is really about giving an accessible account of how to use statistics/econometrics to study questions we face in society or daily life. Presidential elections is a clever device/examplar to illustrate his ideas, but other issues are covered as well (e.g., value of wine, forecasts of extra-marital affairs, and more standard econ stuff like interest rates and inflation).<br />This book would be a great supplement to someone who is taking an econometrics course or a social science statistics course. It would also be of value to researchers, students, policymakers, et al., that are looking to have an accessible account of how to structure statistical research. E.g., Ray Fair gives a checklist/breakdown of how social science statistical studies should be carried out that should be useful in almost every relevant circumstance.<br />I also recommend &quot;A Concise Introduction to Econometrics: An Intuitive Guide&quot; by Franses.	2004-06-22
US	38592874	R27BBV2E35LB0S	0596006624	229043813	Hackers and Painters: Big Ideas from the Computer Age	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Worth reading even if you don't agree with it	Paul Graham is an interesting character. He is both an outstanding hacker -- he created the software that became the foundation for Yahoo's shopping site and was an early advocate for Bayesian spam-filtering -- and an artistic painter. Mr. Graham sees no contradiction in all of this -- in fact he considers hacking and art to be nearly synonymous; hence, the title for this book (and an essay contained in the book).<br />*Hackers and Painters* is an anthology of some of Paul Graham's more provocative essays and lectures. The essays range from exploring the anthropology/sociology of hacking -- nerds (who as an earlier reviewer pointed out are unpopular) and the select of group of computer enthusiasts known as 'hackers.' The book also has his essays advocating the use of Lisp and Bayesian spam-filtering. The book also contains essays that can be considered social commentary (about academics, etc.).<br />I do NOT agree with all of what Paul Graham has to say. I do not think that Lisp is as useful a language as Paul Graham claims it to be. I don't appreciate his disparaging of concepts (and people) contrary to his own (e.g., bashing Perl, uncharitable remarks about computer scientists and mathematicians, etc.) Some of his social commentary seem ill informed or naive.<br />BUT -- in spite of all of that -- Paul Graham's essays are well worth reading. Where I do AGREE with him, I really appreciate his insights. I'm a big fan of his essay \\"Why nerds are unpopular\\" (contained in this book). With some reservations, I also admire his essays \\"Hackers and Painters\\" and essays on Bayesian spam-filtering.<br />Paul Graham is a great writer. If he wasn't so successful with programming in Lisp, he could have become just as successful with writing in the English language. Although his interest in writing is somewhat secondary to his many other interests, Paul Graham is extraordinary gifted in this arena as well. It's refreshing to see that -- contrary to stereotypes -- a hacker can beboth a gifted artist and writer.<br />As for the complaint about Paul Graham's alleged disparaging of French lit PhDs. Frankly, I have heard many humanities types openly and crassly referring to scientist/engineering/technical types as idiots or worse, and vice versa. While I don't agree with chauvanism by left-brainers, make no mistake, right-brainers are also capable of narrow-minded snobbery as well. (BTW, what does comparing Paul Graham to some comedian have to do with anything? I prefer \\"unpopular nerds\\" like Paul to morons like the other reviewer from L.A.)	2004-06-16
US	38592874	R3S52EJTLAIXOT	1591020670	48681661	Math Charmers: Tantalizing Tidbits for the Mind	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A nicely done book on math factoids and problem solving	*Math Charmers* is a nicely done book dealing with various facts about mathematics. I want to emphasize that these facts are presented in a problem-solving format (i.e., a question is posed and the solution is provided). The best way to learn about math is to solve problems, thus Posamentier's format works well in striving toward his stated goal.<br />Posamentier has written several excellent books on math education that, like this book, emphasizes the problem-solving approach. *Math Charmers* is his foray (I think) into the 'pop-math' genre and I think he did a fine job here.<br />I wanted to briefly address the one negative review thus far: Yes, it does have some sections that can be found elsewhere, but anyone can say that about any other pop-math book. So that sort of criticism in it of itself is hardly a useful (or original, ironically) observation. The real issue is whether *Math Charmers* provides any new ideas and insights as well as handling the old favorites in a useful manner. This book suceeds on both counts.	2004-06-02
US	38592874	R9SK2BM9ZGFZB	0674107462	85309079	Randomness	Books	4	9	18	N	N	Ever heard of Godel?	You can ignore the stars. This is written in response to &quot;mrbigbeast&quot;: His statement that Zeno's Paradox and other paradoxes like it have been &quot;debunked&quot; are totally ludicrous. Hasn't he ever heard of Kurt Godel or Alan Turing? It has been mathematically proven that real logical paradoxes without any resolution exist. There are several accessible books on this subject like *Godel, Escher, Bach.* It's a disgrace that such stupid reviews have weight in the rating process.	2004-05-09
US	38592874	RU1B5TZTI5YQ1	0140055282	644520828	To Change China: Western Advisers in China	Books	4	12	28	N	N	Very Very Bad Stereotyping	This book is a collection of biographical sketches of several Westerners who went to China in order to try to change it. On that level, Prof. Spence does a credible job.<br />I didn't write this review because of that. I wrote this review in order to address the comments by &quot;N Zhou Smith.&quot; His mocking use of the phrase &quot;vely vely&quot; is racist and bigoted. Obviously he is refering to the stereotype that Asians can't distinguish between &quot;r&quot; and &quot;l&quot; in pronounciation. This stereotype can only be accurately applied to the Japanese, it does NOT apply to the Chinese (they have NO trouble pronouncing either &quot;r&quot; or &quot;l&quot; sounds). At any rate, it is bigoted to put it mildly to use that stereotype even if it had been accurately applied. Japanese, Mandarin, and other Asian languages are radically different from Western (European) languages; it is idiotic to say the least to mock or humiliate people for having been born into a different culture/ethnicity. For shame.<br />It's ironic. Jonathan Spence wrote a book poking holes in the idea that Westerners can go to China in order to totally impose Western attitudes on Asian people. &quot;N Zhou Smith&quot; - if he really is in Beijing and hasn't been run out on a rail - may well have to learn these lessons the hard way.	2004-05-06
US	38592874	RYBAGPEJ6IHO7	0471479241	964335055	Magic Numbers: The 33 Key Ratios That Every Investor Should Know	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great finance book / Errors were corrected	IMHO, *Magic Numbers* is one of the greatest finance books that I'm aware of (and I am aware of many of them). I agree with the positive reviews that have been written already. Rather than be repetitive, I wanted to add the following observations:<br />(1) The earliest reviewer mentioned that there were serious errors/typos in this book. That WAS true. However, reprintings of this book from Spring of 2002 onwards have incorporated corrections to the errors mentioned. So any new copy you buy here should be free of the errors that the first reviewer mentioned.<br />(2) One of the best features of this book - which distinguishes this book from other books of this type - is that it actually goes through the calculation of the ratios/numbers step-by-step. Better yet, these calculations are made from real financial statements from real companies (mostly in the UK or Asia). While other books will tell you the theory of how to arrive at a figure and maybe offer up a 'toy' example, *Magic Numbers* actually gives the reader solid, concrete, real-life, practical examples of how to arrive at the 'magic numbers.'	2004-03-28
US	38592874	RRTT0MZEEH60B	1590470648	655340795	SAS Learning Edition 1.0	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Looking forward to version 2.0	I'm giving SAS Learning Edition, version 1.0, 4 stars ... but I'm grading on a curve.<br />Before I get any further in writing this review, let me briefly go over my experience with SAS: A few years ago I used a fully functional SAS version 8 for financial econometrics. Having gotten that out of the way, here are my two cents on this Learning Edition.<br />First of all, I applaud the SAS Institute for coming out with a learners' edition of SAS for people's home PCs. Considering the advances in desktop computing over the last 20 years and the obvious benefits of promoting a product like SAS to a wide a group of numerate potential users out there, I'm frankly shocked that SAS Institute didn't do this sooner. When I was in school (which was not that long ago), the only thing that I could get for my personal computer from SAS was JMP, a misguided product which has no obvious purpose in the age of Excel with VBA add-ons being able to tackle much of what JMP can do and considering that JMP is too wimpy to compete with higher-level statistical/mathematical software applications like SAS itself.<br />The non-availability of a learners' version of SAS was particularly bizzare considering the fact that other competitive applications like SPSS, Mathematica, Matlab, Maple, etc., have had learners' versions for several years prior to SAS' efforts. Heck, statistical/mathematical software like R and Octave are absolutely free!<br />So I'm glad that the SAS Institute has done what they did. BUT - as many of the more critical and skeptical reviews before mine have pointed out - version 1.0 of this product definitely has some weaknesses. Those weaknesses include some annoying bugs as well as unreasonably limited functionality.<br />To be fair to SAS, it is not fair to expect them to offer full functionality at this relatively (relative to a SAS license) inexpensive price, especially with what is suppose to be a learning edition. However, there is a fine line between protecting the SAS franchise and not offering the degree of functionality that rationally should be offered to: (a) help learners truly learn SAS, and (b) wet people's appetites for fully functional SAS.<br />To further expand upon point (b), what if a student or a novice professional started playing around with a better, more functional version of SAS LE. When they get into a work environment and a set of problems arises, that person who was using a version 2.0 of this product could suggest to his/her boss that &quot;Hey, SAS can handle this problem&quot; instead of some other software package and/or programming in VBA, C++, Java, etc.<br />So my fervent and sincere hope is that the SAS Institute is listening - and judging by a couple of the posts, they seem to be - and come out with a new and improved version 2.0 of this product.<br />So, if the SAS Institute is listening to my measured, fair, and even toned review, then I hope that they will put out a version 2.0 of this product that:<br />(a) Is priced at an affordable level (please remember the days when you were a hungry student or a lower-level professional);<br />(b) Adds more functionality;<br />(c) Fixes the bugs;<br />(d) Has better documentation gratis; and<br />(e) Isn't over-bearing in promoting non-'traditional' SAS interfaces ... After all, this software is suppose to help people familiarize themselves with the full power of SAS and not simply a dumbed-down, wimpy point, click, fill-in-the-blank interface. If potential users really wanted the later, then they could simply use Excel (possibly with some add-ons and/or VBA code) instead of SAS.	2004-03-27
US	38592874	R2D571PPYROB78	1576601447	498811255	Numbers Guide: The Essentials of Business Numeracy, Fifth Edition (The Economist Series)	Books	4	39	40	N	N	From Great to Good	I have read cover-to-cover a previous edition of this book (when it was published by Wiley in 1998) and recently had an opportunity to carefully peruse this current edition (5th ed. by Bloomberg Press???). What I found is that this is a strange case of how a great book (the 1998 edition) turned into merely a good book (this 5th edition). Because of this regression toward the average, I deducted one star from my review (but still feel that it is good enough for 4 stars).<br />As you may have noticed, I really loved the older edition of The Economist Numbers Guide that I thankfully own. It is a great overview and introduction of mathematics as it relates to business. There are a lot of great things about that edition of this book. One of the things I admired about it was the range of topics covered, from interest rates and basic probability/statistics all the way up to Markov Chains, linear programming, and marginal analysis. It is hard to find the breadth of topics covered in that book elsewhere - whether all in one book or in any combination of books.<br />So I found it perplexing that this 5th edition dedacted some materials and topics covered in older editions. Gone are the interesting discussion of descriptive statistics for sets of data that do not easily conform to any of the standard probability distributions (e.g., where median is the best measure of the 'average' and substitutes must be used for the more common parameters such as standard deviation). I have a hard time finding anything coherent much less accessible on those topics elsewhere so it is a shame that they were left off of the 5th edition.<br />The only new material (not previously present) is a short blurb on public-key cryptography. While that topic is interesting to me and the limited discussion was illuminating and mathematically sound, it seemed a rather quixotic choice to put in when some interesting materials in previous editions were left off and new material that would have been more useful to the targeted audience have yet to be added.<br />What I mean by useful material that have yet to be added is that both the 1998 edition and this edition don't have some materials that I would think naturally ought to be added. E.g., the section on finance &amp; investment mathematics is mostly devoted to various discussions on interest rate/time value of money &amp; basic probability. I think adding material on CAPM (although CAPM Beta is defined in the book's very helpful glossary section), option/derivative pricing, financial portfolio optimization, and other topics in financial mathematics/engineering would make a great and natural addition to this book.<br />Some problems common to both the prior and current edition of this book are the occassional (relatively rare) typos. They are usually minor (although they are most annoyingly frequent in the section on time value of money / interest rates).<br />Another flaw in both the older and newer editions is that there are gaps in the expository material that don't make much sense. To be fair, this book is designed to be a brief intro/overview into a wide swathe of topics so it wouldn't be reasonable to expect that the author go into great detail on every topic. However, there are instances - e.g., the example on mixed strategies in game theory - where one or two additional sentences would help novices to understand (e.g., how did you get the the mixed strategy probabilities? author should have added a couple of more lines about how the system of equations are interrelated with one another when determining mixed strategies).<br />Having said all of that, let me reiterate that BOTH the old and the new edition of The Economist Numbers Guide is a wonderful resource for people interested in business mathematics. The sections on decision-making and forecasting are especially of value since they are so wonderfully explained here and a comparable set of explanations are hard to find elsewhere. <br />In future editions,I just hope that the author heeds my advice about bringing back some topics in older editions, correcting a few errors &amp; lapses, and adding some material that would fit in with what has otherwise been an excellent series of books.	2004-03-18
US	38592874	R77LBFC3RWTFE	0471998826	908624202	Investment Mathematics	Books	5	29	35	N	N	A Great non-calc/non-linear algebra Financial Math book	*Investment Mathematics* is the best (and perhaps only) book that deals with financial mathematics in a serious and useful way without requiring much in the way of math prerequisits (pre-calculus/linear algebra math ... actually a little bit of calculus knowledge would help, but it isn't absolutely necessary). With the potential audience for such a book, I'm surprised that this is the first review of this book.<br />Unlike other books that don't quite live up to the hype in its backcover descriptions, this book does live up precisely to the descriptions on the cover (and in Amazon's info section). I won't repeat what is written there. To sum up the book very briefly, it covers a wide swathe of issues in financial mathematics that range from basic issues like interest rates and the time value of money all the way up to advanced topics like modern portfolio theory, option pricing, ARCH/GARCH, and Value at Risk.<br />One thing to note in particular is that this is one of the few finance/investment books that I have seen that goes into detail about downside risk calculations (i.e., \\"semi-variance\\"). Most other books, even books that are on a more advanced level, often neglect to deal with the subject or just does some handwaving about it. The authors actually give you the mathematical gist of it in the book.<br />One of the more useful aspects of this book is not given in the descriptions: It has several sidebars that gives some tips on how to use Excel to implement the models discussed in a practical setting. There are other books that go into more detail (such as *Advanced Modelling in Finance and Investment Using Excel and VBA*) but the authors ought to be commended for putting information about Excel just in case people don't own those other books.<br />A much more important reason for why I am impressed with this book is that the authors do an excellent and mathematically accurate job of going over the mathematics of finance that doesn't require calculus or linearalgebra. I can't think of any other book besides this one that I am familiar with that actually deal with the underlying mathematical logic of finance. Most other books on finance deal with the math on a cookbook level. It is truly refreshing to see a book that helps the reader to see inside the 'black box' of mathematics to see WHY financial formulae and methods are constructed the way they are.<br />In connection with the point made above, I also appreciated the useful prose, descriptions, pictures, and sidebars that dealt with potentially useful mathematical details and tidbits - like the mechanics of geometric series and the relative positions of the mean, median, and mode, in various distributions - that are not included in most books on finance that I'm aware of. Some of those details may seem basic and trivial, but it is nice to have that information in one place (and/or not have to run to a non-finance math/stat book) and is very instructive for people for whom such details are not trivial.<br />The only weakness of this book is one of the book's strength: It's lack of calculus and linear algebra. E.g., even when it talks about stochastic models, it really doesn't get into stochastic calculus. On advanced topics such as MPT, option pricing, ARCH/GARCH, etc., the goal seems to be to build intuition. However, this is a rather limited goal. One cannot truly grasp the complexity of those advanced topics without delving into calculus, linear algebra, and advanced probability and statistical theory. For people who are interested in getting a relatively accessible intro into those topics, I would recommend books by people like Paul Wilmott.<br />So, in summary, I believe that this book will be a useful introduction to financial mathematics pre-calculus/linear algebra. For those looking to get into more advanced topics in financial mathematics, I would highly recommend this book because it gives an excellent overview of those advanced topics and can serve as a bridge to more advanced issues.<br />In fact, I would recommend this book to some people who consider themselves to be quants dealing with financial math on a higher-level than does this book. Why? Because I strongly believe that many people - even highly sophisticated people - often received cookbook training in financial modeling. Therefore, many people don't understand the basic logical underpinning of what they are doing! *Investment Mathematics* remedies that situation by doing an excellent job of dealing with the mathematical logic of 'basic' financial mathematical models.<br />Further recommendations: The only other book that I know of that comes close (but is not quite as comprehensive) to dealing with the logical underpinnings of financial formulae/methods and provides useful tidbits on financial math is *Puzzles of Finance* by Mark Kritzman. Another book with a similar zeitgeist (and target audience) as *Investment Mathematics* - but focused in on financial risk - is *Fundamentals of Risk Measurement* by Marrison.	2004-03-13
US	38592874	R1HGJ8DQT6DEZU	0471246573	900994086	Puzzles of Finance: Six Practical Problems and Their Remarkable Solutions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beyond the cookbook	*Puzzles of Finance* has attracted a rather ecclectic group of reviews. I won't repeat what others have wrote and the book's own descriptions in my own review. I will, however, briefly discuss why I am giving it 5 stars.<br />As someone who is interested in mathematics for the sake of mathematics rather than for purely pecuniary purposes, it bothers me that many finance books treat the required level of mathematics in everything ranging from simple discounting formulae all the way up to stochastic differential equations in a cookbook manner. What I mean by that is that almost all of the books out there in finance that has some legitimate math component in it (I leave out pop investing books that are akin to vodoo) ignore both the logic and mathematical 'beauty' underlying the math of finance. Even Springer-Verlag-style books on advanced financial engineering / econophysics / whatever-you-want-to-call-it often commit these sins.<br />Mark Kritzman's book is one of the handful that I am aware of on any level of mathematics that does not commit such sins. As for the chap that wants to hash out some debate over the utility of utility theory: All I can say is that this is hardly the forum for that discussion. At any rate, Mark Kritzman's mathematical musings are a lot more appealing than the type of blind empricism that some so-called quants engage in. *Puzzles of Finance* is one of the few books that doesn't lose sight of the mathematical logic/beauty from the forest of cookbook pseudo-quant wizardry.	2004-03-13
US	38592874	R1AMHWC7KZAJM4	0521520908	167369342	A Concise Introduction to Econometrics: An Intuitive Guide	Books	5	27	29	N	N	An unique gem of a book	I'm really surprised that there haven't been more knowledgable reviews of this book before now. I'm also surprised that there isn't a lot of buzz out there about *A Concise Introduction to Econometrics.* This is an unique gem of a book for anyone who is interested in econometrics but does not have a PhD in economics.<br />What is this book about? This is one of the few books that lives up to its title. <br />It is concise (the heart of the book is about 100 pages) and is reminiscent of Oxford UP's 'A Very Short Introduction' series. <br />It deals with econometrics - the statistical analysis of economic data. The book provides a brief but informative remedial section on basic statistics necessary to understand the heart of the book, regression analysis (both cross-sectional and time-series). The book dissects some case studies -- examples from actual, real-life econometric studies (as opposed to made up 'toy' examples used in much more dense books) -- with a special emphasis on topics relevant to finance (financial econometrics) and marketing.<br />Finally, it lives up to its byline &quot;An Intuitive Guide.&quot; It really does deliver a (relatively) intuitive guide to a highly mathematical subject. Even though the book recommends familiarity with calculus and linear algebra, it can easily be read and understood by an intelligent person with a more limited mathematical background (high-school algebra is probably all you need, but you do need mathematical 'maturity' and patience). The emphasis is on understanding the underlying reasoning and not on calculation or formal proofs. It even deals with advanced topics like ARCH/GARCH in this relatively intuitive way.<br />Who is this book for? I think that the audience for this book are beginning students of econometrics or regression analysis outside of economics. This would obviously include undergrads in economics, finance, etc. and non-quant MBA students. But what many people don't realize is the extent to which econometrics has gained in importance in seemingly unrelated fields. Many law schools, lawyers, and legal scholars make use of econometrics and they could benefit from a book like this. Those people in public policy (academics or in practice), public health, and non-econ social sciences could also benefit from this book. The book is written on a level that intelligent law and policy students should be able to get a lot of knowledge about a topic they would normally be intimidated by.<br />Another audience for this book are people who have to deal with econometrics on a PRACTICAL level. One of the things that many people who studied econometrics in school find when they have to use it in the real world (on-the-job) is that the formal academic training both OVER-prepared them and UNDER-prepared them for the real world uses of econometrics in finance and marketing (the two areas of emphasis in this book). At least in non-academic settings (and in research assistant work in academe), you don't really need to formally derive a proof or have memorized the content of Greene's econometrics textbook. In fact, a lot of the gibberish one learns in a formal setting will confuse you and often times not clarify how you would model a situation you confront and what kind of data (and how to get it) you need to properly answer the problems you're tackling.<br />Philip Hans Franses, the author of this book, actually relays to the readers that he is very cogniscent of these types of issues. In fact that was his main motivation for writing this book. He comes from a marketing and financial econometrics background so he is very familiar with on-the-job issues relevant to making practical use of econometrics.<br />I contrast all of the above with a book like Peter Kennedy's famous guide to econometrics. I don't want to knock or disparage that book, because (for what it is intended to do) it does a great job. But Kennedy's book is designed as a way for economics students (especially graduate and advanced undergrad) and PhD economists to have a reference and general overview of a variety of topics in academic econometrics. That isn't to say that it is not useful -- it would be especially useful for financial engineers dealing with advanced issues in financial econometrics. But, in spite of its strengths for those taking formal econometrics courses or in need of a academically oriented refresher or intro, it does not do what Franses' book does: A practically oriented and brief light-on-the-math introduction to econometrics especially useful for legal and policy scholars and for econonomics, finance, MBA, etc. students that find even Kennedy's book to be over their heads.<br />I don't know of any other book of its kind out there in the marketplace. If you're even vaguely intrigued, I suggest you buy this relatively inexpensive book. Frankly, it's a lot better than books ten times its price and size.	2004-03-13
US	38592874	R3BMZGRYKA0BMV	0192893203	139889737	Logic: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	25	29	N	N	One of the Greatest Books Ever Written (seriously)	I purchased and read this book a few years ago when I saw someone reading it at a Harvard Square restaurant. I was curious because: (a) I was interested in logic, and (b) because it was in an intriguing new format called &quot;A Very Short Introduction&quot; (more on that later).<br />After buying and working through this book, I came away loving almost every bit of the book. Even as the years have gone by since finishing Graham Priest's book, I still feel that it is one of the best books that I have ever read (and I've read quite a few). In fact, as the title of my review suggests, I honestly feel that 'Logic: A Very Short Introduction' is one of the greatest books ever written and that ANY intelligent and educated person -- even if they have little or no initial interest in formal logic, philosophy, or mathematics -- MUST buy and read this book.<br />So what is this book about. In order to answer that question, I have to discuss the general format of this series of books as well the specifics of this book itself.<br />Oxford Univ. Press' &quot;A Very Short Introduction&quot; format is a series of books that are designed to INTRODUCE an intellectual discipline to readers that can be considered LAYMAN in that particular subject. These books are brilliant because: (a) they are relatively short and, thus, busy people who have a vague interest in a subject can get an accessible account of it, (b) it is compact so that it can literally fit in a shirt or jacket pocket, and (c) they are INEXPENSIVE (all of them sell for under $10). I put some of the words above in bold letters because some of the other reviewers criticize Graham Priest's book for being too elementary. My response is: No duh, that's what it was INTENDED to be. If you are honestly an expert (as opposed to posing as one), then you probably should be reading another book (but as I will mention below, even experts in the relevant fields can probably get something out of this book).<br />The content of this book is, as I suggested above, an accessible introduction to formal logic (from the fields of philosophy and, to some extent, mathematics and computer science). It covers most of the standard issues dealt with in a typical logic class PLUS it covers some advanced and/or non-traditional topics such as 'non-classical' logic (modal, multi-valued truth values, etc.) and more inductive (as opposed to deductive) issues such as probability theory and decision theory. To repeat myself, of course this is all at a basic, overview level but it's intended audience (laypeople interested in the field, busy intellectuals, people who need to review of fill in some gaps, etc.) will find this to book to be highly valuable.<br />Another positive for this book is that Graham Priest is the author. I commend Oxford Univ. Press for choosing him to author the book. He is a very innovative (or controversial depending on your viewpoint) scholar in the field of logic. I appreciate the fact that he has a mathematical background (I think at least one of his degrees was in maths). I think that an implicit objection that some negative reviewers have, based on some of the quirky book recommendations involving religion, is that Mr. Priest is very irreligious and his biases shows up in the book. I'm not an atheist myself and I have to admit that the MINOR little bit where his (lack of) beliefs showed was a bit bothersome for me as well. However, I am enough of an intellectual to get over it and just accept the book for what it is: An excellent introduction to logic. And, to be fair to Prof. Priest, he does play devil's advocate with his own viewpoints and one can't fairly claim that he crams his personal views on his readers because he doesn't do that. So this and any other reasons offered up for trashing this book (and I'm writing this review because I love this book and hate to see the unfair bashing of a book I love) are really not reasonable at all.<br />A truly magnificent and unique aspect of this book is that &quot;Logic: A Very Short Introduction&quot; has end of the chapter excercises for each chapter with SOLUTIONS to EVERY problem (available on the Oxford UP website for the book). I can't even begin to fully describe how great that is for autodidactic (self-study learners) folks. You can't really learn math (which logic falls under) without solving problems, and you can't be sure you've solved something without the solutions. Graham Priest's book addresses both of those issues. Even more rigourous and formal textbooks on logic sometimes nelgect to offer exercises and usually do not give solutions to all the problems. This aspect of the book alone makes it valuable to potential readers.<br />What about the more advanced reader? As I've noted above, I think this book offers something for everyone who is smart and curious, including people who have some familiarity with logic. First, it's written by Graham Priest, a scholar with some interesting ideas on logic. Second, it covers some non-classical logics and inductive topics like probability -- things that even those who are familiar with logic may need either review in or a solid introduction to. Third, it offers questions with fully worked out solutions for each and every one of those problems, something that even dedicated texts on the subject often fail to do. Finally, it's cheap and handy so that, even if you don't find any of the above arguments satisfactory justification for buying this book, you can at least give it to your friends, family, or significant other just in case you feel they need to be educated about thinking logically.<br />Bottom line: This is a solid introduction and overview of logic with some extras that one might not expect in a book such as this. IMHO, it is one of the greatest books ever written. It's cheap and compact. If you haven't bought it and read it, please do yourself a favor and do both.<br />BTW, Oxford's VSI series has other great books. I would also recommend the books on intelligence (as in IQ) and linguistics.	2004-02-29
US	38592874	R2YW6DJGZLIIUT	1590473337	116173479	The Little SAS Book: A Primer, Third Edition	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I love this book so much that I would ...	I see that *The Little SAS Book* is now in its 3rd edition. My experiences were with the 2nd edition. I used that version of the book a few years ago when I was doing intensive work with SAS.<br />This book was a life saver. I agree with the positive reviewers and disagree with the negative ones. Yes this book covers the basics - but that is EXACTLY why the book was written! <br />Take it from me, even though I used SAS for sophisticated data analysis (mostly financial econometrics) and regularly used more advanced features of SAS and higher level books and manuals, I still OFTEN referred to *The Little SAS Book* during my SAS programming days. With all due respect to its competitors (Cody's books, etc.), I found *The Little SAS Book* to be the most useful and the most often used.<br />I regularly recommended this book to those who were new to SAS and they always appreciated my recommendation.<br />I can go on gushing about how great this book is, but to sum up in an efficient manner how much I love this book, let me leave you with the following: If either Lora or Susan (the authors of the book) were ever looking for a husband, I would marry either of them in a heartbeat!	2004-02-10
US	38592874	RM4944PCK21OG	0691113211	667258983	Strange Curves, Counting Rabbits, & Other Mathematical Explorations	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Interesting for autodidacts interested in math	I would agree with the back cover advanced praise for this book. I wanted to make a special note for people who consider themselves to be self-starters in terms of their interest in math: This book has problems throughout the book with SOLUTIONS. The best way to learn math is to do it. While I enjoy a lot of 'pop math' books out there, I am disappointed that there hasn't been an attempt to include a few illustrative problems with solutions (books without solutions aren't going to be useful to autodidacts or even more serious students of the subject). Well, finally this book offers what many of us have been looking for.	2003-12-13
US	38592874	R2NYKZL9ASLJAM	1884550207	386698547	Math-A-Day: A Book of Days for Your Mathematical Year	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Clearly Theoni Pappas' best book / Good book regardless	Theoni Pappas seems to have a mixed reputation (at least, if we go by Amazon reviews). Some people like her art deco approach to popularizing math and like the fact that it is aimed toward kids, parents, and self-learner adults who only have a vague recollection of high school math. Others diss her books as being too simplistic, too easy, too derivative, etc.<br />Whichever side of that argument you fall into, I think any reasonable person that is interested in math should agree (after perusing *Math-A-Day*) that this is clearly her best book and a good popular math book by any standard.<br />As others have pointed out, this book is organized as mathematical vignettes for 366 days of the year (which includes leap years). Each of these math capsules includes a brainteaser-type question that requires at most high school level math knowledge, some math trivia, and a math-related quote. From what I can tell skimming through it, the problems seem to be a nice mix of relatively accessible questions that aren't too hard all the way up to fairly challenging problems requiring a lot of sophistication (although, like I said, not much knowledge).<br />The problems and their solutions (included in the end of the book), as well as the math trivia, should be of interest to all ages and of particular interest to those with an interest in learning as much about math as possible. This is a great book and is definitely not for juvenile primates or for drunken neighbors as suggested elsewhere. Learning about interesting mathematical trivia -- like Mayan mathematics -- should be of great interest to any genuine math lover and other clever, intelligent people.<br />In short, whether you like Pappas' other books or you'd like to lump them, THIS book, *Math-A-Day*, is definitely an interesting book and worthy of the attention of math lovers.	2003-08-24
US	38592874	R3PF8SIJCCHTA9	0140130349	338397034	Mathematician's Delight (Penguin mathematics)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Excellent prose, excellent subject matter	W. W. Sawyer was one of the greatest teachers of mathematics within the past century. The continuing popularity (to the extent that books on math can be popular) of his other books -- *Prelude to Mathematics* (which deals with advanced math) and *Vision in Elementary Mathematics* (which deals with arithmetic and basic algebra) -- serve as evidence for the wonderful ability he had to make math seem useful and interesting to everyone from the math-phobic to the dedicated mathematician.<br />Contrary to some other reviews, Sawyer's prose was NOT dull or dry. We have to keep in mind the fact that *Mathematician's Delight* was written for an audience in the 1940's to 1950's Britain and Canada. Obviously, the style and tone won't be consistent with the way that we 21st century Americans are used to. But even giving him that benefit of the doubt, Sawyer's prose is always lively, entertaining, and full of insights into his chosen subject of mathematics as well as insight into why many people struggle with aspects of that subject.<br />I definitely agree with the positive aspects of the other reviews. This indeed is an excellent book to take you from the basics of algebra all the way up to and beyond calculus. I sincerely hope that someone brings this book back in print.	2003-08-10
US	38592874	R2QKXALKFQ8H0V	048642555X	136869257	Vision in Elementary Mathematics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A Vision-ary Book on Math	For those not familiar with Sawyer's other books (*Prelude to Mathematics* -- also by Dover Press, and *Mathematician's Delight* -- by Penguin, but out-of-print), W. W. Sawyer was a Brit who excelled in making even the most opaque topic in mathematics understandable and clear to his many students and readers. <br />Sawyer's *Vision in Elementary Mathematics* adds to his sterling reputation. On the surface, *Vision* focuses on various topics in 'elementary' mathematics including: algebra, arithmetic, and geometry. A deeper look at this book reveals, however, that Sawyer's book goes well beyond rehashing basic concepts in math.<BR> <BR>The focus in this book -- as the title *Vision* suggests -- is on helping both students and teachers have a stronger inuitive grasp of basic concepts of mathematics that many teachers tend to gloss over. As many people have experienced in their own education, mathematics is often treated as a mysterious, 'black box'-like subject. That kind of mindless and unthinking approach to mathematics teaching and learning tend to turn many people off to the subject. This ongoing tragedy in American education has been well researched by another excellent book, *Knowing and Teaching Elementary Mathematics* by Liping Ma. <br />Sawyer wrote this book in order to combat the unthinking approach to math education. The remedy he offers to that kind of approach is to encourage a deeper understanding of mathematics from relatively simple concepts like fractions, arithmetic, and number properties all the way up to polynomial equations. My favorite quote from this book, which is repeated in different forms, is: \\"We first try to make sure that we can see what the problem means - for if we do not understand the question, we have no hope of finding the answer.\\" As this quote suggests, *Vision* focuses on helping people to truly UNDERSTAND what mathematical problems really mean. <br />*Vision* utilizes various techniques to help readers to have a deeper level ofunderstanding of mathematics. Sawyer encourages people to develop some geometrical heuristics to help them grasp a problem. A great example of this is how Sawyer explains how to easily multiply and divide anything from numbers all the way up to polynomial algebraic equations using 'matrix'-like geometric concepts -- no mean feat! <br />Another great thing about *Vision* is that Sawyer encourages experimentation by students in this book. As many math-lovers know, you can't really learn mathematics without doing it. Sawyer not only encourages people to 'do' math but to experiment with it. By encouraging students to think about math problems in creative and novel ways -- and to not be afraid of making mistakes and, hopefully, learning from them -- *Vision* will help many math students to get a greater appreciation for the subject and will encourage them to be much more creative about the subject. Furthermore, by encouraging student to find out for themselves the whys and hows of a correct solution, *Vision* will encourage the kind of mentality one has to have to become a good mathematician or scientist. <br />In this regard, it should also be noted that Sawyer includes several exercises at the end of each chapter and includes ANSWERS at the end of the book for each and every question (very helpful for self-learning). <br />A surprising -- given its focus on 'elementary' mathematics -- benefit of this book is that it provides solid foundations for more advance topics in mathematics. *Vision* provides excellent foundations for number theory, linear algebra, calculus, trigonometry, and combinatorics. Another plus for this book is that Sawyer deliberately tries to emphasize the fact that mathematics -- at any level -- can be useful to real-life problems because mathematics underlies so much of what we see in the natural world. <br />Who should read this book? The obvious audiences are teachers and students of mathematics in anywhere from elementary school up to high school. This book would be especially helpful to home-schoolers who are interested in providing their kids with a solid grounding in mathematics that can be built upon when they attend university. <br />But those aren't the only people who should read this book. This book should be read by people who feel that they had an 'incomplete' education. People, like myself, who felt a bit cheated by the poor state of the educational system should definitely read this book no matter how confident (or un-confident) about their mathematical abilities. <BR>This book can and should be read by advance students and teachers of mathematics in fields ranging from engineers to scientists (including professional mathematicians). Those advanced users of mathematics can use this book both for review and to get some additional insights into their chosen subject. I have no doubt that Sawyer has insights and creative approaches in *Vision* that will prove valuable to mathematicians at any level. <br />Finally, ANYONE interested in getting a 'profound understanding of fundamental mathematics' (often abbreviated PUFM in educational policy circles) for whatever reason MUST read this wonderful book. *Vision* perfectly fulfills Sawyer's vision of writing a book that helps people to look at mathematics in a novel way that will help them to have a deeper understanding and appreciation for mathematics.	2003-07-25
US	38592874	R2DSUIT1J3L8NC	1556524234	771777238	Doing Simple Math in Your Head	Books	5	35	36	N	N	One of my all time favorite books	This book is a great way for people to learn how to do simple math problems (arithmetic operations) in their heads. Unlike some other books in the same genre that simply give you gimmicks without explaining how or why they work, W. J. Howard offers tricks that have a solid basis in mathematical logic and explains the rationale. Another problem that many other mental math books have is that they require you to memorize a lot of rules that aren't easily relatable to common sense. Dr. Howard's book, however, only gives you a few rules which are easier to remember because they have a logical basis. <br />Even if you aren't interested in mental math, this book is a great refresher for those who have forgotten how to do arithmetic without a calculator. So toss out your calculators, sharpen your pencils, and buy this book. You won't regret it.	2003-07-23
US	38592874	R1OBJOOIHG6ZSK	0806958693	111673863	Hard-to-Solve Math Puzzles	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fabulous Puzzle Book (I hope this isn't out-of-print)	As an avid collector of puzzle books, I can honestly say that *Hard-to-Solve Math Puzzles* by Derrick Niederman is one of the best puzzle/Mensa-type books I have come across. What is unique about this book is that this book concentrates on clever mathematical puzzles requiring only a high school-level of math knowledge.<br />Most other puzzle books on the market: mix math questions with other types of puzzles (like word puzzles), require knowledge of math that is way too advanced for most run-of-the-mill puzzle fans (e.g, math olympiad type books or books requiring university-level math), or avoids math altogether. Niederman's book is focused in on math puzzles that are challenging but doable for most puzzle fans.<br />Another thing that I liked about this book is that the problems are truly challenging (but do not require advanced math knowledge). Niederman's problems usually require more insights and sophistication than comparable problems by other respected puzzle makers.<br />Finally, this book is endorsed by Mensa, a plus for people who want a seal of approval.	2003-07-22
US	38592874	R3HEK336C9245Q	0806996587	231118411	Mind Workout Puzzles	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Mix of Puzzles	I just started working on this book. From what I can tell so far, it seems like Terry Stickels has suceeded yet again in coming up with clever puzzles that utilize the wide range of skills needed for successful puzzle solving: logic, math, spatial perception, and verbal flexibility. I especially enjoyed Stickels approach to solving cryptarithms; I think it will come in handy on other puzzle books that have cryptarithm problems.	2003-07-22
US	38592874	R2G7ZI3G32PYCC	0806996587	231118411	Mind Workout Puzzles	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Mix of Puzzles	I just started working on this book. From what I can tell so far, it seems like Terry Stickels has suceeded yet again in coming up with clever puzzles that utilize the wide range of skills needed for successful puzzle solving: logic, math, spatial perception, and verbal flexibility. I especially enjoyed Stickels approach to solving cryptarithms; I think it will come in handy on other puzzle books that have cryptarithm problems.	2003-07-22
US	38592874	R25QHKZ8RBTIF2	9639463124	941114028	Comprehensive Math Collection Lite Kit	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Great idea in theory but it doesn't work in practice	I was really excited about Taylor's Math Collection CD-ROM. It promised to cover a broad swath of mathematics that bridges the gap between advance high school level mathematics all the way up to the moderate level of college/university mathematics. Plus, it covers math necessary for the SAT and GMAT. Great idea.<br />Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to actually work. I tried repeatedly to access the CD-ROM on my home computer. My computer should be compatible with Taylor's Math Collection (Windows 98 and up) and my computer has plenty of RAM and hard-drive space. Yet the CD-ROM never worked. After repeated error messages and Microsoft's blue screens of death, I gave up and packed it up to return to Amazon.<br />To sum it up, I think this would be a wonderful product IF it actually works. But it doesn't and no matter how grand an idea you have for a product, if it doesn't work, then it isn't worth anything.<br />BTW, although I suspect that the editors may delete the following, I want to point out the fact that the 3 five-star reviews were ALL written on the SAME DAY and with identities that could easily have been made up. I suspect they are ringers. I think that the makers of Taylor's Math Collection ought to spend more of there time fixing their products rather than writing phony reviews.	2003-05-20
US	38592874	R141142GXDOB9P	074321630X	841067083	The Double Helix: A Personal Account of the Discovery of the Structure of DNA	Books	4	22	31	N	N	A Classic of Science Fiction	I would mostly echo the many accolades that James Watson's book has received on this site and over the years. *The Double Helix* is indeed a classic.<br />However, after seeing 'The Secret of Photo 51' on PBS' Nova program, I realize now that Dr. Watson's work is science fiction rather than science.<br />Like many other young science fans, I grew up with the accepted wisdom that the collective genius of James Watson and Francis Crick cracked the code of life: DNA. In college, I did hear about someone named Rosalind Franklin that was somehow wrongly denied a share of the glory in this magnificent achievement. At the time, being naive and ignorant as I was, I dismissed the contributions made by Rosalind Franklin as being merely that of a technical assistant (rather than as the KEY insight that it really was) and simply dismissed claims on her behalf as being those of the 'politically correct' rather than people sincere about preserving the integrity of science.<br />I freely admit now that I was totally wrong. Rosalind Franklin's contributions to the discovery of the nature and structure of DNA was absolutely crucial to the magnificent moment of science that took place 50 years ago. It seems clear on the evidence that Watson nor Crick could ever have made the mental leaps and had the insights that they had had Dr. Franklin's work not been 'available' to them.<br />What is more disturbing about this whole sordid affair is -- not that Dr. Franklin did not get all the accolades she deserved (which the scientific community is making belated ammends for) -- that Dr. Franklin's work was quite literally stolen from her ... she never gave permission for Watson &amp; Crick to have her results, they never informed her that they had surreptitious access to those results, and Watson &amp; Crick -- for all intents and purposes -- gave her no credit for her contributions.<br />In the *Double Helix* -- rather than simply sweeping those inconvenient facts under the rug -- James Watson goes on to malign Dr. Franklin in both a personal and vicious manner. Even though she was one of the leading pioneers and pillars of X-ray crystallography, James Watson wrote in his book that 'Rosy' (as he derisively referred to her as ... never calling her by her proper name) was not capable of understanding her own results and suggested that she was a lowly technician rather than a leading researcher. To make matters worse, James Watson spent a great deal of time in his book on describing Dr. Franklin as being unattractive, unfeminine, and unsociable (in truth, she was a very attractive and vivacious woman).<br />As I write this on April 25, 2003, the world is commemorating the publication in Nature of Watson &amp; Crick's supposed 'discovery' of the nature of DNA -- an event that heralded a new genomic age of science. The second paper in that issue of Nature after Watson &amp; Crick's paper was a paper by Rosalind Franklin and her graudate assistant Raymond Gosling. Dr. Franklin's paper contained a facsimile of 'Photo 51' -- the X-ray photo of DNA that was key to Watson &amp; Crick's fame and glory. Dr. Franklin's photo alone -- with absolutely no need for the 'insights' of Watson &amp; Crick -- proves the double helical struture of DNA.<br />It seems tragically ironic that a book entitled *Double Helix* devotes so much ink to maligning and belittleing its real discoverer.<br />In summary, if you view the *Double Helix* as a fictional account of how great and smart James Watson is and how homely and dull-witted 'Rosy' is, then this book is still a classic. But I don't think I can view the tale told in its pages the same way as I did before I knew the true history of the double helix.	2003-04-26
US	38592874	R17W4SDQWJGOD1	0195030850	899503357	Mathematics: The Loss of Certainty (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	11	29	N	N	Everyone else should be convinced by Morris Kline's book	I want to start by saying that I agree with all of the positive reviews of Morris Kline's book (from what I can tell, all but one person gave this book high marks). Morris Kline is indeed a great mathematician as well as a great writer/expositer of his chosen field. This book -- which explores the philosophical ramifications of mathematics via its history and argues for the essentially uncertain nature of mathematics -- is definitely a great book for math fans out there.<br />What has motivated my review is the one negative review by Sr. Barbosa of Puerto Rico (or so he claims). It is a sad but true fact that people who give their opinions on the web do not always give fair and reasonable opinions and/or are motivated by ulterior motives. Sr. Barbosa's review seems to fall into that category.<br />First, Barbosa attacks Morris Kline (he's got some nerve doing that) for Prof. Kline's supposed lack of understanding of mathematics. This frivolous insult is so ridiculous that it isn't necessary to discuss it further.<br />The negative review further contends that mathematics really is not uncertain. Sr. Barbosa, in that line of thought, also says that Kurt Godel didn't really believe in his own famous theorem! (Or at least that's the only way one can interpret Sr. Barbosa's statements.)<br />Even layman that are familiar with popular works on mathematics -- *Godel, Escher, Bach*, *Godel's Proof*, etc. -- realize that mathematics as a formal, axiomatic system has been PROVEN (for all time) to be incomplete and inconsistent ... i.e., &quot;uncertain.&quot; These ideas have been further amplified by the works of Alan Turing and Alonzo Church (the Halting Problem) as well as Gregory Chaitin (Algorithmic Information Theory -- along with Andrei Kolmogorov and Raymond Solomonoff). In fact, Chaitin has proven that the natural number system -- ie, the counting numbers (1,2,3,...) -- is itself random (i.e., uncertain).<br />If that was not enough evidence in favor of Morris Kline(and contra Sr. Barbosa), then consider quantum physics and chaos theory. Both of those fields add further fuel to the idea that nature itself is uncertain. If nature is uncertain, then why shouldn't math (which often elegantly represents nature) be uncertain? Sr. Barbosa winds up looking foolish for arguing that Copernicus and other great thinkers of physics can be used to support Sr. Barbosa's views. On the contrary, physics seems to support Morris Kline.<br />In short, Morris Kline's book does a valuable service by looking at how mathematics has hisorically developed in an uncertain manner in order to further highlight the uncertainity in mathematics that has been logically PROVEN by others. Shame on Sr. Barbosa and others who constantly write misleading, unfair, and irrational reviews of books that can lead customers astray and unfairly malign quality work.	2002-10-29
US	38592874	R322642W8XFA7F	048669609X	423135741	Foundations and Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	60	65	N	N	'Swiss Army Knife' of Upper Level Mathematics	I totally agree with the previous two reviewers on what they had to say about this wonderful book. However, I did want to briefly note that -- beyond merely being a fascinating overview of the development of beyond-calculus mathematics -- it is also a great resource for people needing to look up or review topics in advanced mathematics (especially mathematical logic). Again, to repeat what the others have said, buy this book if you have ANY interest in mathematics. You won't regret it.	2002-10-26
US	38592874	R1QT937THNO9BL	0738205184	582512235	Gdel: A Life of Logic	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Not really a biography, but very good nonetheless	I would agree with other reviewers who point out that Casti and DePauli's book really doesn't work as a biography. While there are some interesting biographical factoids, they are offered in such a disjoint manner that it is hard to see this book as a good biography of Kurt Godel.<br />However, as a book that gives an accessible overview of Godel's work, it is very effective. The best parts of the book deal with Godel's Theorem and Turing's Halting Problem. While there are other books out there that do a good job of making both those topics accessible to a wide audience, Casti and DePauli's treatment is worth a read because they also offer some unique insights not (easily) found elsewhere.<br />But the best part of this book is the second to the last chapter that gives an accessible account of Algorithmic Information Theory (aka 'Kolmogorov Complexity') ... especially Gregory Chaitin's work on the randomness of natural numbers. While Chaitin has also written some accessible works on this topic, Casti and DePauli does a great job of explaining this topic to a wider audience as well as showing the connections between AIT and Godel/Turing. This chapter alone is worth the price of the book.<br />A very interesting and insightful thing that Casti and DePauli did was to periodically re-define Godel's Theorem in terms of Turing's Halting Problem, Chaitin's work, and from other interesting angles.<br />The book is not without fault. Besides the rather haphazard biographical details, the chapters dealing with some of Godel's other projects (physics, mysticism, etc.) were rather poorly written. Also, Casti and DePauli did a very bad job with citations/suggestions for further reading. E.g., they often cite to other works, or suggest readers consult other sources for further details, and then do NOT provide those sources in the bibliography. There are some other examples of sloppy editing and writing that would be hard to point out to those who haven't actually read the book.<br />Having said all of that, the book deserves 5 stars because of the material on the incompleteness of mathematics, solvability/computability, random nature of mathematics, and some of the biographical trivia (to the extent that they are offered). My recommendation is that people buy the paperback if they are interested in AIT, mathematical logic, and theoretical computer science, and want those topics dealt with in an accessible and interesting manner without sacrificing on insights.	2002-10-23
US	38592874	R2OVVIP1CK4Z8G	012240761X	887477913	The Theory of Gambling and Statistical Logic, Revised Edition	Books	5	18	19	N	N	For what it is, it's a great book	I would mostly echo the positive reviewers of this book. This book is indeed a classic in the field of probability theory and applied statistics. It is also a great book for people who want a serious, math-intensive treatment of gambling.<br />I am writing this review mostly to deal with the criticism that this book has received from some of the other reviewers. I would agree with those critics that this book is not for the faint of heart. This book does require a certain comfort level with mathematics.<br />However, I don't think it's all that fair to bash this book for those alleged faults. Mr. Epstein's book does not pretend to be anything other than a serious treatment (and a serious treatment would require a great deal of mathematical analysis) of gambling. In fact, the serious analysis of gambling is what gave rise to the mathematical disciplines of probability and statistics. Mr. Epstein is (was) an engineer and the book makes that very clear. FAIR criticism would be based on citing problems with the book based on what the book was INTENDED to be. UNfair criticism of this book is based on what the mathematically challenged reader HOPED it would be.<br />BTW, I do agree with the math-challenged critics that there are some good books out there dealing with a more math-oriented approach to gambling that were written with the intention of appealing to people who wanted to make use of such information and wanted a lighter touch on the math. Among them are the *Theory of Poker* by Skalansky and the other books mentioned on this page.	2002-10-22
US	38592874	R3QD8IH3P29MGE	0486409163	163697195	Mathematics: Its Content, Methods and Meaning (3 Volumes in One)	Books	5	89	93	N	N	Great book for math fans	I whole-heartedly agree with the other positive reviews offered here. There are only a few things I would like to add:<br />(1) Popular math and science has become quite popular lately. I'm sure that there are many pop-math/pop-sci readers who would like a more 'meatier' treatment of math that still has an accessible style. If you're in that group, then this book is for you.<br />It basically requires recollection of high school algebra and a willingness to wade through and learn some challenging material. I should add that the book looks intimidating in size but this is mostly due to the fact that Dover has bound 3 volumes as 1 (which is actually a great deal for readers).<br />(2) I can't think of too may books that can, with effort, take a novice through the bulk of a college/university level math curriculum.<br />(3) This book contains material by 2 of the greatest mathematicians/scientists of all time: Andrei Kolmogorov (famous for his work on probability and information theory as well as Kolmogorov Complexity/Algorithmic Information Theory) and I. M. Gelfand (for his work on mathematical physics). The book is worth buying for that reason alone.	2002-10-17
US	38592874	R1HP5IEVLO74NF	9622013910	737647950	Lu Xun Xiao Shuo Ji: Vocabulary: Selected Short Stories of Lu Xun (C and t Language Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unique resource for the Chinese language learner	This book had to be the most unique resource for the budding Chinese (Mandarin) language learner. The author, Prof. D. C. Lau of Univ. of London's SOAS (School of Oriental and African Studies), wrote this book in order to help intermediate students of Chinese to be able to read excerpts of works written by the great Chinese writer, Lu Xun, without having to go through the awkward steps of hunting for definitions in a Chinese-English dictionary (an often choosing the wrong definition from the options offered). This book has excerpts of Lu Xun's short stories in Chinese on one side of a page and the opposing pages have appropriate vocabulary words from the stories with their Pinyin romanization (with tone marks) and the appropriate definitions.<br />BTW, the simplest way to describe Lu Xun is to say that he is sort of like China's version of Franz Kafka.	2002-10-17
US	38592874	RS4H2AC7C0ZAJ	0446678724	723826234	Understanding the Genome (Science Made Accessible)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An interesting anthology of SciAm articles	This book is one in a series by Scientific American that has been published with the intent to give an overview of various themes in science to a lay audience. This book on genomics is a reprint of various articles that have been published in SciAm (in either magazine or web formats). The articles include: articles on J. Craig Venter and Francis Collins (the two de facto leaders of the Human Genome Project), an article co-written by Dr. Collins, articles on business and philosophical aspects of genomics, etc.<br />Overall, I thought this book was interesting. It doesn't get the 5th star because of the sort of hodge-podge feel to the book (it is an anthology of somewhat disparate articles not originally intended to be published together) ... which more assertive editing may have solved. But, all-in-all, considering the low price tag, I would recommend the book to those who are interested in the subject and do not own copies of the relevant SciAm back issues.	2002-10-17
US	38592874	RJJ0VM4Y6NJTU	0691094942	942286277	Chance in Biology: Using Probability to Explore Nature	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Math Applied to Biology	*Chance in Biology* is one of the best science books I have ever read (and I have read quite a few of them). This book applies probability theory (along with other topics in math and physics) to biological phenomena. A big PLUS for this book is that the authors intentionally wrote the book to be accessible to an educated but nonspecialized audience.<br />I really enjoyed the authors' discussion of random walks applied to 'genetic drift' (the likelihood that offsprings' genomes will be different than their parents') and a surprising application of probability theory to elastic materials found in nature. <br />I also enjoyed their chapter on the probability of extreme phenomena -- which is an obviously useful topic that gets short shrift in many probability and statistics books I have seen. They even use baseball statistics in that chapter!<br />Another interesting part of this book was the discussion and the practice problems dealing with Bayes' Theorem. The concepts discussed in this book is something that all health care officials and lawyers should familiarize themselves with.<br />Some caveats about the book: <br />(a) The reader should be familiar with the 1st year of college calculus. While it is is possible that someone with only an understanding of algebra can get a lot out of the book, the calculus would help. I should note that you do not need to know a lot of calculus and someone who is 'mathophobic' could still get a lot out of the book. <br />(b) This book does not deal too much with inferential statistics. This book focuses in on probability, which is the cornerstone of statistics. However, when it does touch upon inferential statistics, it does a superb job. <br />(c) I wish the authors spent a little bit of time going over Markov Chains (random walks is a type of Markov Chain and the book does deal with that but without talking about MC explicitly). But that is a minor complaint.<br />Rounding out my praise for this book is the fact that most of the chapters have practice problems and ALL of the problems have solutions to them at the back of the book. I can't even begin to tell you how great having all of the solutions for all of the problems is for self-study/comprehension. The problems provided are no 'toy problems' either ... they are actually extremely helpful in not only testing one's grasps of the materials but also in illuminating and extending the points made in the particular chapter.<br />Other miscellanous positive things about *Chance in Biology*:<br />- a sample MATLAB program to simulate random phenomenon (in the solution to one of the practice problems)<br />- a chapter that deals with 'noise' .... interesting for those interested in Chaos<br />- authors make an excellent distinction between non-deterministic random/stochastic phenomena vs. deterministic Chaos<br />- many more good things!!!<br />Bottom-line: If you are at all interested in probability, applied math, physics, chemistry, or biology, you should buy this book.	2002-10-09
US	38592874	R3BS8Z830WZ90T	0691001448	995233260	The Importance of Being Fuzzy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great intro to fuzzy logic, computability, neural nets, &amp; GA	After reading this book, I would echo the mostly positive reviews of this book offered by others below. As noted by others, *The Importance of Being Fuzzy* is an accessible intro to fuzzy logic, issues surrounding the limitations of computability (Godel/Turing/NP-completeness), neural networks, and genetic algorithms.<br />Arturo Sangalli tries to give just enough of a taste of the technical details of the topics mentioned above to balance the need to be accessible without dumbing things down too much. Sangalli writes about the theoretical, historical, and applicability issues surrounding so-called *soft computing* (fuzzy logic, etc.).<br />One of the things I found interesting about Sangalli's writing style is that he writes very efficiently. By that I mean that he manages to discuss all of the very complicated concepts mentioned above in a succinct and efficient way without losing clarity and accessibility. He included 4 brief appendixes dealing with various concepts mentioned in the main text in a more formal way (for those who are interested).<br />In short this book is by far the most accessible account of fuzzy logic, NP-completeness, neural networks, and genetic algorithms. Fortunately, this reader-friendliness does NOT come at the price of having a dumbed down account. [As for Godel/Turing computability issues, there are a variety of other contenders for accessible accounts (e.g., *Godel, Escher, Bach*).] No wonder this book won the 1998 Association of American Publishers Award for Best Professional/Scholarly Book in Computer Science.<br />Finally, I take issue with the hostile review from Ontario, Canada. The obvious purpose of this book is to offer an intelligent yet readable introduction to *soft computing* issues. It is completely unfair to bash this book because it does not engage in a sufficient degree of name-dropping. In fact, one piece of name-dropping by the hostile reviewer -- his complaint that the book did not mention Gregory Chaitin -- is really off-base since there really is no need in a book like this to deal with AIT/Kolmogrov complexity [the limits of computability issues can be dealt with sufficiently by citing Godel/Turing/Church and NP-completeness]. I strongly believe that the merits of a book should be based on rational criteria and not on tangential issues.	2002-08-25
US	38592874	R1419UHHD6ZDGB	0071387870	517435411	TAB Electronics Build Your Own Robot Kit	Books	4	29	31	N	N	(Sort of) Caveat Emptor	I just got this robot building kit from Amazon. I agree with the other reviewers that this kit is a very simple way to get hands on experience in building a small robot. However, one bit of caveat emptor (\\"buyer beware\\" in Latin): In order to be able to program the robot, you have to buy a separate (i.e., not included) controller and hook it up to your computer via a serial cable. The other reviews and the descriptions did not make that clear. <br />I would still give this kit high marks inspite of the need to buy the controller for programming because: it requires few tools to build, is relatively simple to assemble, does a few tricks even without being able to program it, and it is a relatively inexpensive kit. I hope this review helps.	2002-07-03
