US	38620679	RV6PDO7CN9Q73	0030928001	550748103	Doing Mathematics: An Introduction to Proofs and Problem-Solving	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Swell Book	This is a swell introduction to analysis. Plenty of good examples, with a well-ordered approach to the material. I particularly appreciated the section on the mindsets and assumptions that affect how we do mathematics. It's really helpful in seeing that mathematics is creative and intuitive, and not as bluntly algorithmic as so many high school classes seem. A quality read.	2004-10-19
US	38620679	R2GUN9FLEV4X5Q	0449912302	439982425	Dave Barry in Cyberspace	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Occasional Humor	This is not one of Dave Barry's better books. It has the usual pages and paragraphs that send you into hysterics, but the world of technology laughed at in the book is so antiquated that many of the jokes feel old. Pair that with his unsuccessful attempt to make the same jokes funny throughout the book (which he accomplishes in some others), and you have a lesser Barry book. Give one of his other's a shot.	2004-05-10
US	38620679	R1HACLH9S0650Q	1885767307	784387052	Easy Chairs, Hard Words: Conversations on the Liberty of God	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Love the Analogies	This is a solid book. Doug Wilson explains many of the common questions about Calvinism and Reformed thinking (beginning, of course, by stating his reticence to use these terms) in an engaging, informative manner. I have read assorted other books on Calvinism, and Doug Wilson here answers some questions in ways I've never seen them answered before, and gives great analogies to help understand what he's talking about. The whole book is written in a dialogue format, which makes for an occasionally stilted read (there are only so many ways a character can say &quot;I see&quot; or &quot;I don't understand&quot; before it gets kind of old). But overall, I think the format works great, illustrating how down-to-earth these principles are, and following the natural logic when thinking through these things. It's a stellar book.	2004-04-13
US	38620679	R1XC89V20QPH2M	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Real Chuckler	This is a great concept. It may have been done before, as some folks have said, but I don't care. What humor *is* original? Everyone borrows from everyone. The point is to make people laugh. And reading about lost Prussian swords and giant shrimp suits just cracks me up. Hahaha! I laugh out loud. It's that funny.	2004-04-13
US	38620679	RATQSXUIG6JYY	0875525172	94798373	Symphonic Theology: The Validity of Multiple Perspectives in Theology	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Doctrinal counterpoint	Have you ever been arguing some doctrinal point with somebody, and found yourself rejecting what they say without thinking it over, just assuming you are right and finding some immediate, thoughtless response to what they are saying that will shift the focus back on your position? I had been doing this sort of thing in my debates with people, and I started seeing how ungracious it was. I began trying to actually think about what people were telling me, and find what element of truth they were clinging to--because I knew the people I was talking with were ultimately rational, and there was some sensible point they were holding to, even if I wasn't seeing it because of adherence to my own position.<br /><br />This thought pattern was what led me to this book. I read a review expressing how Poythress suggests that we can glean knowledge from other people's arguments even if, in the long run, we end up disagreeing with them overall. I thought that a symphonic theology was exactly what was needed in theological debate--the recognition that there really are different facets of the truth (but not in some scepticist, there-is-no-truth-sort-of-way), and that we should be more gracious in debate as a result.<br /><br />Well, this book didn't disappoint me in that regard. Poythress developed a very fascinating method of how to do theology in this symphonic, multiperspectival way. He pointed out a couple things I hadn't been thinking about. One of these (which was actually more the main point of his book than what I had been thinking) was that he pointed out the various perspectives even within Scripture. He showed how the Scriptures talk about Scriptures in gloriously multi-faceted ways, and that boxing these into nice systematic theological categories often destroys the symphonic beauty of God's Word. Calvinist type thinking can over-emphasize God's divine decree, while neglecting man's will, and Arminian thinking can over-emphasize free will, at the expense of losing a vision of God's sovereignty. There are Scriptures expressing God's sovereignty *and* man's free will, and we need to see the theological counterpoint going on here, and only if we see it will we really be able to prosper from and understand the Bible. This was quite helpful to me.<br /><br />Very good book on understanding the symphonic, multi-faceted nature of God's truth. Not some relativistic, skepticist understanding of truth, however. A view highlighting the beauty of God's Word, and outlining a method of creating a beautiful theology. Enjoyable.n of God's sovereignty. There are Scriptures expressing God's sovereignty *and* man's free will, and we need to see the theological counterpoint going on here, and only if we see it will we really be able to prosper from and understand the Bible. This was quite helpful to me.<br /><br />Very good book on understanding the symphonic, multi-faceted nature of God's truth. Not some relativistic, skepticist understanding of truth, however. A view highlighting the beauty of God's Word, and outlining a method of creating a beautiful theology. Enjoyable.	2004-04-13
US	38620679	R2GCL0N4WQ4VWH	0971569401	33254034	The Family: God's Weapon For Victory	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great Advice	This book covers the full gamut of topics important to families: Biblical roles for husbands and wives, the role of families in the kingdom of God, sex and lust, finding a mate, raising children, and so forth. All of it is filled with practical, Scriptural advice and (brutally honest) examples from Andrews' own life. This is definitely a quality book, one of the best on developing a vision for the family.	2004-03-23
US	38620679	R2SNYOJ7PBMI17	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Eureka!	Simon Singh knows how to get readers into the story. If you want to understand math without being the next Andrew Wiles, get this book. If you want to get into the personal lives of mathematicians, their outlook on world, and the various intrigues in the mathematical circles, then this book will fill you in. If you're simply looking for a good story, look no further than _Fermat's Enigma_. It's great.	2004-02-22
US	38620679	RYQLEVUR55L4Y	1590521471	182757466	Not Even a Hint: Guarding Your Heart Against Lust	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Look for stuff on men's *and* women's forms of lust	More helpful material from Josh Harris, this time about coping with lust. There were a lot of the typical suggestions about lust: being accountable to other brothers and sisters, avoiding tempting situations, being careful with all the immodesty in the media these days, and stuff like that. Good stuff, but nothing all that new. What I did like, however, was how Harris examined the similarities and differences in what tempts men and women, and the way they are tempted to lust. It's not as simple as that men lust in a sexual way, where as women fantasize romantically: there is a lot of blurring of these boundaries. Harris's explanation of these distinctions and how to keep from tempting your brothers and sisters is alone worth the price of admission. There's also a good chapter on masturbation, which he has made available for free online (...).	2004-02-17
US	38620679	RK0Z9HQ8AJHU1	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Responsible Advice	I read this a month or so after Harris's first. I liked this one even better because it sketched out more of what he thought the courtship process should look like. Having courted and married a girl, he was able to give a number of practical suggestions on things to look out for during courtship. Embracing your roles as men and women, resisting sexual temptation, keeping accountable to your community, treating each other as \\"more than friends, less than lovers,\\" and so forth. There's a lot of good material to think about in here, without being a formulaic, legalistic manual on what you *must* do when courting. Call it dating, call it courtship, call it betrothal--the term used doesn't matter. And the premarital process isn't cut and dry and monotonous--it's got poetic nuances all over it. The thing that matters is responsibility, and this book gives lots of responsible advice.	2004-02-17
US	38620679	R1QYPAB9TIHQ5L	1590521358	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye	Books	5	5	11	N	N	The wonder of dating (courtship)	I read this book a couple years ago, when I was first getting acquainted with the idea of courtship, and with the problems of promiscuous dating. I had read the advice of some really extreme courtship folks (betrothal folks, I should say), and I had heard a few nice courtship stories. \\"Look how great and beautifully courtship worked for us. It'll work for you too! Just wait for God's best. Someday you also will be able to tell a story that will make your daughters go googly-eyed, a tale of breathtaking beauty and emotional monogamy. Make a covenant with your eyes: don't look at a woman until you get married. In fact, it's best if you don't even talk to a woman till then, or at least as little as possible. Your wife will honor, respect, and love you so much more if you don't comment on her beauty or inescapable attraction until that first tingling, connubial kiss--she'll know you're saving your praise for the many years of wedded bliss. It's, like, an irresistible turn-on, knowing that you have this hidden cache of golden compliments just waiting for her. I mean, you wouldn't want to break her heart by unearthing them before you should. That might be ugly. Her Dad might break your kneecaps. He *should*.\\"<br /><br />*cough* Ahem. Such is the idea of courtship that many people have, and that I held to, in a little more favorable light. The way a lot of folks express courtship, there seems to be no legitimate joy in relating with a person who has different organs than you. The light-headed sensation when you talk to a girl and notice how beautiful she is, that curiously exquisite tilt to her smile, and the laugh that sounds like angels' harps, as musically incorrect as that may be. The delightfully incongrous things she says from time to time, and the jaw-dropping common sense and wisdom that emerges a minute later. The way she notices and delights in the tiniest, most trivial, even the most annoying characteristics of your dialog or manner of life. The almost imperceptible difference between idiosyncrasy and idol, between fault and fascination, between chafe and charm. Male-female relations are rife with mystery and wonder, but the way some people describe it, enjoying the mystery is the same as embracing wickedness. Sweetness becomes sin, and it's no wonder people still want to date. The relationships may not last, but at least they're happy while they do. Break my heart please--it's better than the alternative.<br /><br />What I liked about I Kissed Dating Goodbye was that Josh Harris preserved the wonder of courtship, while still pointing out the dangers of promiscuity in dating. He affirmed the legitimate joy and curiosity that guy-girl relations will inevitably engender, and yet he pointed out that reckless abandon to this curiosity, as characterizes much of the dating scene these days, is wrongheaded and dangerous. He explained that dating simply to get those good old romantic butterflies beating their wings in your stomach is just selfishness; and yet he recognized that the butterflies were planted there by God, and their fluttering really is a righteous thing to enjoy. He delves into why dark living rooms and secluded parking lots are rather foolish places to get weak in the knees; yet he also celebrates this mysterious, God-ordained connection between feminine charm and shaky knees. Josh gave all the necessary reasons why dating (or courtship--the term used doesn't matter; responsibility is the point) should be kissed goodbye, and yet he didn't leave romantic happiness behind at the door. I liked I Kissed Dating Goodbye because the way Josh Harris painted the premarital picture, it looked more like Rembrandt and less like Pollock, a pleasant escape from some of the other courtship material I had read.ible difference between idiosyncrasy and idol, between fault and fascination, between chafe and charm. Male-female relations are rife with mystery and wonder, but the way some people describe it, enjoying the mystery is the same as embracing wickedness. Sweetness becomes sin, and it's no wonder people still want to date. The relationships may not last, but at least they're happy while they do. Break my heart please--it's better than the alternative.<br /><br />What I liked about I Kissed Dating Goodbye was that Josh Harris preserved the wonder of courtship, while still pointing out the dangers of promiscuity in dating. He affirmed the legitimate joy and curiosity that guy-girl relations will inevitably engender, and yet he pointed out that reckless abandon to this curiosity, as characterizes much of the dating scene these days, is wrongheaded and dangerous. He explained that dating simply to get those good old romantic butterflies beating their wings in your stomach is just selfishness; and yet he recognized that the butterflies were planted there by God, and their fluttering really is a righteous thing to enjoy. He delves into why dark living rooms and secluded parking lots are rather foolish places to get weak in the knees; yet he also celebrates this mysterious, God-ordained connection between feminine charm and shaky knees. Josh gave all the necessary reasons why dating (or courtship--the term used doesn't matter; responsibility is the point) should be kissed goodbye, and yet he didn't leave romantic happiness behind at the door. I liked I Kissed Dating Goodbye because the way Josh Harris painted the premarital picture, it looked more like Rembrandt and less like Pollock, a pleasant escape from some of the other courtship material I had read.	2004-02-17
US	38620679	R3VU8MC7KKMO1O	0802811892	550525654	Basic Christianity	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A helpful, if incomplete, introduction to the gospel	Although I wouldn't rank this book as high up as, say, C.S. Lewis' _Mere Christianity_, I would still recommend it for a basic introduction to Christianity. Beginning with a few chapters on the evidence of Christ's ministry on earth, Stott continues on to show that all are sinners, and that we all have a need for the forgiveness Christ offers in the cross. This was all great and encouraging reading.<br /><br />The last few chapters -- covering the appropriate response to what the previous chapters explained -- left me a little unsatisfied. Stott valuably explained the need to count the cost of submitting to Christ's lordship, but he offered scant advice on how to live after becoming a Christian, and what Christians' purpose is on earth. What little he *did* say was good, but in a primer on the Christian faith, I would like to see more about how to live in the church, and how to advance Christ's kingdom on earth. A little more practical advice here and there would have been nice.<br /><br />So, good stuff. But _Mere Christianity_ is still my favorite.	2004-01-30
US	38620679	RAY3LD2Y5I5A6	0385472285	982969205	The Hat Book	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Beauty of the Hat	This is a remarkable little book. This is a beautiful little book. I suppose it is out of print because hat-loving is such a niche market. But hat lovers everywhere would love this book. The hat is such an expression of style and dignity, and this book captures it in a totally charming way. Wow, what a book.	2004-01-24
US	38620679	R2JWTIUDBUVRM4	1591280133	319826283	Supergeddon: A Really Big Geddon (The Upturned Table Parody Series)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Satire Continues	This is Nathan Wilson's second parody of Tim Lahaye and Jerry Jenkins' Left Behind series. His first, _Right Behind_, was a dynamite bundle of fun and laughs, offering a satirical look at some problems with the thinking and writing behind the Left Behind series. The chuckling continues in _Supergeddon_. While it didn't have me clutching my sides quite as much as Wilson's first, it's still a great read. Good stuff.	2004-01-01
US	38620679	RK5XDWOZ108W4	1885767889	635426731	The Mantra of Jabez: Break on Though to the Other Side	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Good parody, terrific critique	I believe the best thing about Doug Jones' work here is not the hilarity of his parody, but the soundness of his critique. Having read Prayer of Jabez a while back, a lot of the more pointed jabs elicited guffaws from me. The satire really is good. But what I really liked about this book - particularly in contrast with Nathan Wilson's parody, Right Behind - is that Mr. Jones really showed quite powerfully exactly what was wrong with Wilkinson's position, and I thought he offered a brief but substantial explanation throughout of better ways to view things. He wasn't just making fun of the book; he was also offering a replacement.<br /><br />So in short: good parody, but the critique of modern evangelicalism was the real gem. Gives a short, concise summary of some of the problems in the church today, and offers a glimpse of some of the solutions. Swell book.	2003-11-24
US	38620679	R3N6KUNL2F2YSQ	1885767870	837197382	Right Behind: A Parody of Last Days Goofiness	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A Chuckle of a Book	This book is good. It pokes a little fun at some of the more laughable characteristics of modern evangelicalism, yet without being annoying. Many of the spoofs of scenes from Left Behind are absolutely rib-splitting -- the satire is truly successful. It wasn't the best-written book ever, but at least it wasn't as bad as LB (and the bad writing in many cases is probably just more satire). If you want a quick read, and a quick laugh, grab this chuckler. It's good.	2003-11-22
US	38620679	R8BLNHMWT6UJO	0805422994	280468302	We Remember C. S. Lewis: Essays and Memoirs by Philip Yancey, J. I.Packer, Charles Colson, George Sayer, James Houston, Don Bede Griffiths and Others	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good, but not very dynamic	Intrigued by the look and feel of the book, and by a few of the essay titles and their authors, I purchased this book. I was hoping for an enjoyable collection of personal observations on Lewis' life, illuminating his character and how he lived out what he believed. There was a fair deal of this sort of thing in the book, but not near so much as I had hoped, and a lot had been said before, or wasn't even all that fascinating.<br /><br />Overall, I enjoyed this read for the happy moments when I learned something new or charming, but other books on Lewis have been much more substantial and endearing than this one. I particularly recommend Terry Glaspey's biography of Lewis: _Not a Tame Lion_.	2003-11-18
US	38620679	R24Q7WWF02595F	1842329839	779786080	Autobiography (Chesterton's Biographies)	Books	5	47	47	N	Y	Chesterton lives what he writes	As always, Chesterton here weighs in with mountains of brilliant insights and poetic experiences. This is a very broad book, covering the whole range of Chesterton's interests, which spanned literature and politics and myth and orthodoxy, among other things. As I progressed from chapter to delightful chapter, I found myself chuckling now and scratching my head again and racing to jot down my thoughts at the end. Few authors I have read carry such a solid understanding of so many areas as Chesterton, and certainly even fewer present it as accurately and as beautifully as Chesterton.<br /><br />But you can get a lot of this insight in his other books. This book in particular was enjoyable to understand in a small degree how Chesterton lived out what he believed. It was very encouraging to see that all of these wonderful thoughts need not stay bottled up in the head; they must come out in jokes and essays, books and beer. It took Chesterton a number of years to believe in orthodoxy, and he made some blunders and learned many things in a difficult manner. But in the end, Chesterton lived as a manalive, and this was perfectly in keeping with his final philosophy. We would all do good to read this book and take some lessons from the wise man who was Chesterton.<br /><br />Oh, one minor word of warning. Much of the book deals with rather obscure commentary on even more obscure English events in Chesterton's time. I'm sure all of it is incisive and trenchant material, but many times I couldn't make heads or tails out of what he was talking about. But it was nevertheless fun to read despite the mystery of it all.	2003-11-13
US	38620679	R22YXF0J3UD55C	1930892128	114774627	Wil's Bones	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Fast-moving plot, thankfully	This really wasn't my type of book. It's an interesting premise, and I had heard various people recommend it, but it left me with a blah feeling. It is a fairly engaging adventure, and it's kinda fun following people through the story. But a lot of the stuff was really quite routine, and partially due to the fantastic nature of the book, a lot of it just seemed outlandish, even reading in a huh-wouldn't-it-be-interesting-if-this-happened mindset. It probably was not my cup of tea, but I was glad for the fast-moving plot: I was able to get on to another book as quickly as possible.	2003-11-03
US	38620679	R1IQ2UH2HCGMH0	156025307X	73800006	Cybershock: Surviving Hackers, Phreakers, Identity Thieves, Internet Terrorists and Weapons of Mass Disruption	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting Stuff	This book is a good explanation of hackers of all varieties, their techniques, and what ordinary people and businesses can do to protect against them. In a usually-even-tempered voice, Mr. Schwartau tackles common misconceptions and explains what hackers really are and what threats we should really be worrying about. He has had a reputation of being a Chicken Little with regard to hacking, but at least a respected Chicken Little. None of this is real knock-your-socks-off stuff. But it's good in an enjoyable sort of a way.	2003-11-03
US	38620679	R17P360KQXTZJT	0385495323	440237161	The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stellar book, even for the non-technical sort	This book had me captured from the very first pages dealing with the crytographic intrigues during the trial of Mary Queen of Scots. From Egypt to Mary Queen of Scots to present day public key cryptography to future quantum concepts, Simon Singh offers a typewritten drama unparalleled by many novels. The historical aspects of cryptography set together with the technical details offer the charm of a story and the depth of a dissertation. Singh has a terrific historical voice, and his explanations of even technical crytographic concepts strike home in remarkably resonant ways. This is hands-down the best explanation of cryptography I've even come close to seeing - it's just that good.	2003-11-03
US	38620679	R3C6CVXQY045Z	0156329301	450659252	The Four Loves	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Characteristic Insight	There is really some dynamite material in here. C.S. Lewis explains in typical style and clarity all that is right and wrong with love. Dealing with affection (that warm, fuzzy, it-sure-bugs-me-how-you-twiddle-your-thumbs-but-it's-endearing-in-a-funny-sort-of-a-way type of love you experience after knowing people for a while), friendship, Eros (romantic love, not to be confused with Venus (sexual passion), which is only an element of Eros), and charity, the highest of the loves, Lewis explains the glory of each, and the temptations that arise because of the glory. Much of the book is just hilarious, since he points out little faults common to us all, and he makes it easy to laugh at ourselves. But he also offers much practical advice, good for understanding and enriching our relationships.<br /><br />Main thesis of the book: If you make love God, love becomes a demon. Love is a great gift from God, but because love is so lovely, it's a great temptation to serve it as the whole end and purpose of life. But if this occurs, love becomes a demon, and turns against you. Keep God at the forefront of your mind and your relationships, and love can be kept rich and sweet in its proper perspective.	2003-11-03
US	38620679	R3IO8KD3WG2EBK	0300087012	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave Written By Himself	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Revealing	A prime subject of debate before the Civil War seems to have been the nature of slavery in the South. Northern abolitionists would shoot rhetorical darts concerning the ineffable cruelties done to slaves at the hands of Southern slaveholders; Southern Confederates would fire their own salvos in return, telling stories to show that the abuses did not outweigh the general decency of the system. In this autobiography, Frederick Douglass weighs in heavily with the abolitionists, laying bare the barbarity and brutality of his experiences with slaveholders in the South. Tracking his life from the ignorance of childhood, to his growing awareness and education, to his final escape, Douglass makes his opinion plain: It is not only the South's particular form of slavery which is savagely corrupt - the system itself is despicable at its core.<br /><br />My college assigned me this book to read, suggesting I watch for two things: the relationship of Christian faith to his life and to that of his masters, and the role of education in his journey toward freedom. In regard to the first, Douglass actually says surprisingly little about how his faith sustained him throughout his captivity. A few brief mentions are made here and there about how Christianity strengthened him during his trials, but the vast majority of his remarks on Christianity addressed the viciousness it seemed to inspire in his masters. In his experience, pious slaveholders were more cruel and malicious than unbelievers. Indeed, one of his worst masters was reverend of a local church. Douglass explains that while religion is well and good in its proper state, the corruption of the Southern version of Christianity was unpardonable, a religion where piety begot brutality, and faith sanctioned savagery.<br /><br />In my reading of this narrative, Douglass' primary hope was not in Christianity, but in education. Throughout the book, he explains the various devices slaveholders used to keep their slaves from getting religion, or getting reading and writing, or getting knowledge of current events. He shows that the Southerners knew exactly what they were keeping from their slaves - the very tool by which they could gain liberty, humanity, and freedom. Douglass traces his tortuous trials in learning to read and write, and then shows the invaluable benefits he received from these. A good education is one of the greatest and most liberating things a person can get, and Douglass' narrative drives this point home hard and clear.<br /><br />This book is a worthwhile read. Engaging and well-written, this narrative of the life of Frederick Douglass fascinates and informs. It illustrates the cruel treatment he, and by extension many other slaves, received at the hand of Southern slaveholders. It shows how a barbaric form of Christianity inspired some of these cruelties. And it shows how education delivered Douglass from the hands of his oppressors. Read it as a history. Read it as a story. But by all means, read it.ligion, or getting reading and writing, or getting knowledge of current events. He shows that the Southerners knew exactly what they were keeping from their slaves - the very tool by which they could gain liberty, humanity, and freedom. Douglass traces his tortuous trials in learning to read and write, and then shows the invaluable benefits he received from these. A good education is one of the greatest and most liberating things a person can get, and Douglass' narrative drives this point home hard and clear.<br /><br />This book is a worthwhile read. Engaging and well-written, this narrative of the life of Frederick Douglass fascinates and informs. It illustrates the cruel treatment he, and by extension many other slaves, received at the hand of Southern slaveholders. It shows how a barbaric form of Christianity inspired some of these cruelties. And it shows how education delivered Douglass from the hands of his oppressors. Read it as a history. Read it as a story. But by all means, read it.	2003-09-19
US	38620679	R39BPB3LVSY344	0140183884	652475340	The Man Who Was Thursday: A Nightmare (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Bemusing. Spellbinding.	This novel is an odd sort of a marvel. It's a little bit of a mystery, a touch of a fantasy, and a tad of a biography. Nobody knows quite what to make of it, and everyone has a different interpretation. It charms and intrigues, mystifies and bemuses. Some say it's a Christian allegory; others say autobiography - some say it's a political statement; others say it's just a story. Make what you will of it or say what you want, the general consensus is in: the book is a beauty. A nightmare. A must-read.	2003-09-19
US	38620679	RSRS6QGLZ0HN5	0936083093	703957058	Hospitality Commands	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Essential Reading on Hospitality	This is a gem of a help on the topic of hospitality. The Bible clearly commands that Christians actively practice hospitality, and Alexander Strauch here explains these commands in an enlightening and absorbing fashion. Mr. Strauch offers many helpful tips on how to be hospitable, and explains the blessing of stretching yourself to bless others. A very good little book, as is Steve Wilkins' recent release on this topic, _Face to Face_.	2003-09-19
US	38620679	R2BVDDYVRWVVL6	0345416600	407565024	Dave Barry Slept Here: A Sort of History of the United States	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hilarious American Twistory	This book served as my introduction to Dave Barry, and he must have written few better to begin with. Who doesn't love a good mockery of history textbooks? First Barry hits you with his turns of phrase: \\"Still, the English were undaunted. 'Who the hell needs daunts?' was the English motto in those days.\\" Then he nails you with metaphorical mixups: \\"So Teddy Roosevelt came barging back and formed a new party, which was called the Bull Moose party so as to evoke the inspirational image of an enormous animal eating ferns and pooping all over the landscape.\\" As if we weren't already laughing enough, he gives us deadly discussion questions:<br /><br />1. In the song \\"She'll be Comin' Round the Mountain When She Comes,\\" why do they announce so cheerfully that they intend to \\"kill the old red rooster when she comes\\"? Is it some kind of ritual thing?<br />2. Is \\"Big Apple\\" a stupid nickname, or what?<br />3. Do you think \\"Checkers\\" is a good name for a dog? What about \\"Booger\\"? Explain.<br /><br />I found that reading Dave Barry rewarded me with many long laughs, and rewarded me hard and fast. I must note that he sometimes used certain humorous techniques too often in this book, leading to annoyance and frustration. But this was really quite rare, and I generally experienced pure, unmitigated merriment. If you are a fan of both American History and humor, I'm sure you will find similar pleasure in this chuckle of a book.	2003-08-15
US	38620679	R3E84JRHF0AH95	0891077685	680647799	Postmodern Times: A Christian Guide to Contemporary Thought and Culture	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Excellent intro to postmodernism	In this book, Gene Edward Veith offers a readable and insightful look at the worldview and effects of postmodernism, which dominates much of American culture.<br /><br />After first explaining the origins and characteristics of modernism, Mr. Veith then shows its decline and demise, leading to the fresh position of postmodernism. He highlights the heavy influence literary criticism had in the development of postmodernism, with deconstructionist theories reformulating how people thought about truth. This section I found particularly interesting, since I hadn't had much exposure to deconstructionism before.<br /><br />Having outlined the fundamental principles of postmodernism, Mr. Veith spends the rest of the book explaining how postmodernism is revealed in our culture and what to look out for. He explains the difference between modernist and postmodernist art and architecture. He observes the explosion of postmodernism in books, music, and television. He describes postmodernism's influence on politics, spirituality, and Christianity. Pretty much every sphere of life has fallen under some segment of postmodernism's shadow, and Gene Edward Veith exposes this fact in no uncertain terms.<br /><br />Mr. Veith closes his book with some practical suggestions on how Christians should interact with postmodernism. He notes that there is a degree of truth in what deconstructionists say, and it should be embraced as such. Christians should seize the true benefits postmodernism has brought in overturning modernism, and not throw them away with the system. But we must also watch for the negative effects of postmodernism, and the ways it subverts the gospel. This system of thinking is indeed quite dangerous, and Christians must be watchful, and cognizant of the peril.<br /><br />Do you want to understand contemporary American culture? its overriding philosophy? its danger? If so, this is the book for you.	2003-08-15
US	38620679	R3FR9SJOF8RFKM	1591280001	658804615	Face to Face: Meditations on Friendship and Hospitality	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Helpful and Clear	I love Steve Wilkins. He always combines an acute knowledge of Scripture with trenchant insights and simplicity of heart. Both his love of God's Word and his love of friends and guests shine forth clearly in this delightful little book.<br /><br />Perhaps the table of contents would be most helpful in understanding this book:<br /><br />Part One: Friendship<br />- Chapter 1 - Its Necessity and Obligations<br />- Chapter 2 - Characteristics of a True Friend<br />- Chapter 3 - Cultivating Friendships: Justice and Mercy<br />- Chapter 4 - Cultivating Friendships: Love and Good Works<br />- Chapter 5 - Destroying Friendships<br /><br />Part Two: Hospitality<br />- Chapter 6 - Commands of Hospitality<br />- Chapter 7 - The Nature of Hospitality<br />- Chapter 8 - The Benefits of Hospitality<br />- Chapter 9 - Stepping Toward Hospitality<br /><br />As you can see, Mr. Wilkins first explains the theory and Biblical commands of friendship and hospitality, and then progresses through assorted responsibilities and blessings of each. After explaining that Christians are required to pursue hospitality (actually to *persecute* hospitality - he provides some fascinating insight on this Greek word), he lays out the spirit and nature of this hospitality, its blessings to individual, family, and church, and a number of good tips on how to step toward hospitality. Littered throughout are a number of personal little experiences, notes, and tips which make the book ever more helpful and enjoyable. The writing is clear and kind - not obscure or esoteric at all.<br /><br />One note: this is not a handbook on the details of friendship or hospitality. You won't find in here many suggestions for how to make the perfect phone call, design the perfect thank you card, or position the perfect guestbook. Some ladies in particular might be looking for this sort of thing, but you won't find it here. This book includes Biblical principles and guidelines mostly on a higher level: the need to have many families in your church over, not the type and volume of music you should play when they arrive.<br /><br />A fine book. Also read _The Hospitality Commands_, by Alexander Strauch.ny families in your church over, not the type and volume of music you should play when they arrive.<br /><br />A fine book. Also read _The Hospitality Commands_, by Alexander Strauch.	2003-08-05
US	38620679	RLI8WW5Q9YY4U	0486266885	732800244	The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good book, poor edition	Dover Publications has a curious inclination toward publishing classic masterpieces in disgraceful editions. Dover Thrift Editions, in particular, carry this tendency. These books are usually about as thin and flimsy as your everyday mousepad. While holding them, they remind you of the cheap programs you receive at baseball games or concerts - although even these programs at least *look* better than the Dover disgraces. I mean, can you honestly glance at the cover of this thing and not have an internal urge to puke?<br /><br />_The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde_ is a masterful story. I absolutely love it. But while holding this particular volume, it didn't feel masterful - it felt cheap, like a low-class mystery. Sure, the book only costs a buck, but this edition is practically blasphemous to Mr. Stevenson's good name. Have the decency to purchase a quality edition.	2003-07-26
US	38620679	R8PJ15X1YMBJO	0891077669	73973361	The Soul of Science: Christian Faith and Natural Philosophy	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Nice explanation of scientific theory	This is a terrific book on the nature and history of science from a Christian perspective. Pearcey and Thaxton specifically reveal the myth present in much of modern science - that the objective, non-religious approach is the only reasonable way to conduct scientific study. They show how nearly all of the major scientists throughout history were actually motivated by Christian or other religious purposes, and that Christianity - not atheism - contains the appropriate presuppositions to support science. After this fascinating historical study, they highlight prominent aspects of modern science that have some serious philosophical problems - most notably, evolution. They wrap up with some explanations and critiques of non-Euclidean geometry, quantum theories, and others from a Christian perspective.<br /><br />The book is a bit difficult to follow at some points due to the complicated jargon, but overall they do a stellar job making things clear. There are dozens of endnotes throughout, and they are usually relevant and interesting - it just gets annoying sometimes flipping back and forth between the notes at the end of the book and the actual text; notes at the bottom of each page are easier to use.<br />Good content, good readability: great buy.	2003-07-06
US	38620679	R1CHA49ZKF9U7A	0800786556	563315157	The Master Plan of Discipleship (The Personal evangelism library)	Books	2	12	20	N	N	Good, but faulty in some places	This book offered a helpful explanation of what true discipleship is, gleaning heavily from the Biblical account of the apostles from the book of Acts. Practical tips are interweaved with Scriptural theory for a useful book.<br /><br />Mr. Coleman's style throughout, however, is frequently rather tedious and difficult to read. It lacks enthusiasm for the task of discipleship, and its dry, intellectual style does not immediately motivate you to go out and disciple the nations. This is not necessarily a bad thing - it's just not what I expected from a book marketing itself toward ordinary lay people. I find it curious that it's become a bestseller.<br /><br />I also had some fairly significant theological problems with certain portions of the book, but I know it's not supposed to be some major treatise. Just be careful when reading.<br /><br />Bottom Line: good material on discipleship, but nothing that will wow you with verbal fireworks or flawless theology. Read it if you must. And even then, only once.	2003-06-26
US	38620679	R2NXWWRU7FOUZ8	1581820534	986233922	Then Darkness Fled: The Liberating Wisdom of Booker T. Washington (Leaders in Action)	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Terrific	In another sterling volume of the Leaders in Action series, Stephen Mansfield here outlines the life and character of Booker T. Washington. In vivacious voice and moving magniloquence, Mansfield traces Washington's path from slavery to his founding of Tuskegee Institute. He shows the difficulties Washington surpassed in reaching his goals, and the principles that helped him make it. In the words of Washington, \\"Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying to succed.\\" By this standard, Booker T. Washington was an astonishingly successful man.<br /><br />Washington wrote his own autobiography, _Up From Slavery_, which must certainly not be neglected. But Mansfield's biography is also a criticial read because he includes facts that the autobiographer was too modest to mention, and he highlights wonderful aspects of Washington's character that humility prevented him from including. This biography doesn't contain the wonderful self-analysis and insight of Booker himself - but it does contain all the benefits of a third person account.<br /><br />One thing I really appreciated about this book was its terrific analysis of slavery and inter-race reconciliation. Expounding Booker's opinion, Mansfield blames both whites and blacks for the problems that cropped up after the Civil War. Whites needed to repent of their brutal treatment of slaves and actually begin considering blacks more than mere animals; and blacks needed to repent of their spirit of bitterness toward their white enslavers, and begin working hard and leaving no excuse for disrespect of blacks. Too many books on reconciliation have practically advocated bitterness, hatred, and laziness when what is really needed is Washington's outlook of forgiveness and hard work. This book offers relief from such pride.<br /><br />To wrap up, this is a great biography. Good history, good style, and good content. Buy it.	2003-06-26
US	38620679	R2RUF2U9FHK3CD	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Merely Christian	This is one of the best summaries of the essentials of Christianity I have read. Lewis avoids all the common pitfalls in the usual presentation of the gospel. Some people emphasize doctrine and theology to a tiring degree, others focus primarily on getting close to God and focusing on your relationship with Jesus, and another group of people incessantly preaches how we must live and what we must do as Christians. But all of these positions polarize the truth - mere Christianity expresses all of these aspects at once, without contradiction. True doctrine is only attained by communion with God, and this results in a holy, Christian life.<br /><br />Mere Christianity is so powerful because it harmonizes all of these aspects in such a glorious manner. You read his defense of the existence of God, move through his explanation of the basics of Christianity and Christian conduct, and then finish with his thoughts on the Trinity. You never get an impression of imbalance, or of partiality to some \\"pet doctrine\\" as Christian authors often have. All of it is written in his typical even-handed, charming, down-to-earth fashion. This would be my top recommendation for an enjoyable summary of Christian doctrine and practice.	2003-04-28
US	38620679	R2BG85CPLOGMYB	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Mere Joy	As much as C.S. Lewis hems and haws in his preface about how suffocatingly subjective and uninteresting this book will be to many readers, there are few books in Lewis' corpus that I have gleaned more joy and help from. Lewis takes us on a tour through his adventures in joy, that peculiar longing for something that is itself more enjoyable than the thing longed for, this desire that he found ultimately only has its fulfillment in Christ, as joy is merely a longing for the heavenly. He brilliantly analyzes his earlier life, exposing his childhood follies and rejoicing in his youthful literary loves; several times I found myself laughing out loud about similar mistakes and mishaps I had fallen into. He scatters his typically brilliant social commentary and theological insight throughout the work, and a chapter never goes by without gaining a preciously helpful understanding of some important topic. This book is easily among the top three autobiographies I have ever read.<br /><br />\\"I have tried so to write the first chapter that those who can't bear such a story will see at once what they are in for and close the book with the least waste of time.\\" Go ahead and read that first chapter. You won't want to stop.	2003-04-28
US	38620679	R251OINABVDDAS	1888952210	171354263	Not a Tame Lion: The Spiritual Legacy of C. S. Lewis and the Chronicles of Narnia (Leaders in Action Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Not a Tame Biography	This book is a part of the Leaders in Action Series, which contains many biographies of great leaders throughout history, all of which are extremely stellar. Each book is divided into a biography section and an analysis section, the latter of which is always very insightful. The chapters are short, so reading can be spaced throughout a few weeks, which is very helpful.<br /><br />But beyond the series itself, this book is hands down the best biography I've read on C.S. Lewis, barring his own autobiography. Terry Glaspey traces three main attributes of Lewis throughout his life: imagination, reason, and faith. Threaded all throughout Jack's life, these three things set him apart as a leader, and Glaspey brings them out beautifully. The man had such faith in God that he couldn't help but glory in fantasy and intellect, and after reading this biography I want nothing else but to lay hold on these traits and incorporate them into my own life.<br /><br />I would first and foremost recommend Lewis' autobiography, _Surprised by Joy_. But for the facts Lewis left out and for a delightful analysis of Lewis' life and writings from an outside stance, this book can't be beat.	2003-04-28
US	38620679	R39ILBBHZ49SEJ	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Grief Observed	This is a mournful book, but it ends in hope. On the death of his wife, C.S. Lewis went through a time of confusion and penned these expressions of grief in assorted notebooks throughout his house, later collecting them into a book published under another name. In this book he reveals his doubts and worries and despairs and self-reprimands, yet interlaced throughout he maintains (tenuously at times) his hope in God, and comes out more faithful than ever.<br /><br />This book is not a theological or literary treasure like Lewis' other works. This book is a tale of grief. We find in Scripture and all of literature the theme of grief and mourning over the loss of loved ones. Lewis here expresses his own experience with this grief, and seeks to encourage readers with his thoughts.	2003-04-28
US	38620679	RJAGPWKFQ3M5	089107449X	194624209	Turning Point: A Christian Worldview Declaration (Turning Point Christian Worldview Series)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Where piety meets reason	Turning Point is the initial book in a series on developing a Biblical worldview. Marvin Olasky, Editor-in-Chief of World Magazine, and Herbert Schlossberg, author of Idols for Destruction, here set forth the fundamentals of this Christian worldview. After addressing the problems of rationalism and pietism, they offer a true balance of reason and piety, a harmony that reveals itself in Christian action.<br /><br />The first problem is the error of rationalism, which places man's reason above all else, and ends up throwing out Scripture and much truth out of a desire to be reasonable. When reason is elevated so high, sins such as abortion and sexual immorality suddenly seem milder than they really are, and ideas such as evolution begin to take prominence over against Christian truth.<br /><br />They also cover the problems of pietism, which is devotion to God to the exclusion of involvement in the world. Many Christians see problems in our culture and instead of grappling with these matters, confident in Christ's instruction in all matters, they instead retreat into their personal lives of prayer, Bible reading, and \\"love.\\" When such pietism is embraced, both culture and the church are allowed to be harmed by the world.<br /><br />Olasky and Schlossberg expose the ditches of rationalism and pietism on both sides of the road, and then they guide readers onto the straight path. A Christian worldview recognizes the importance of both reason and piety, and they blend these two together in submission to God's Word. Christians are to love God, but prayer and study of Scripture are to be manifested in discipline of the nations. Reason is necessary to apply the Bible to assorted areas in culture, but wisdom is lost when reason replaces Scripture.<br /><br />Use reason wisely, and be a truly pious Christian. But don't serve either out of proportion; blend them together into a glorious view of the world and subsequent reform of culture.	2003-04-28
US	38620679	R3RHF320FM7WVU	0192835629	165741225	Up from Slavery (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Enlightening historical narrative, with public speaking bits	This book is a fascinating historical account of the atmosphere of America during Reconstruction. The opinions of an ex-slave on matters of racial relations, education, suffrage, and so forth are certainly worth considering in any study of this period. I loved Booker T. Washington's autobiography for this.<br /><br />But I also enjoy this book because it has character. Mr. Washington gives bits of advice on how to be a good public speaker - as he was a speaker of much renown - and this was quite delightful as I have often been somewhat confused by such matters. Add to this his endearing stories of the white and black races, and you have yourself an extremely worthwhile and enjoyable read.	2002-12-24
US	38620679	R3NBOQEJ0WSDCD	0310385806	436154113	Miracle of Christmas, The	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Insightful Analysis of the Roots and Meaning of Christmas	In _The Miracle of Christmas_, John MacArthur analyzes every aspect of Christ's birth and the glorious meaning this has for Christians. He travels from the prophecies of Christ's coming in the Old Testament, through the lives of Joseph and Mary, and all the way to the wise men. Amongst this story of the first Christmas, MacArthur weaves short explanations of how such Christmas rituals as trees, cards, and Santa Clause came about. All is well-written, and a fascinating tribute to the importance of Christ's birth to Christians.	2002-12-13
US	38620679	R200DMTK4AUO9G	0321130073	514034583	HTML for the World Wide Web with XHTML and CSS, Fifth Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Easy to Read	I have read a variety of books on HTML and web publishing, and they have generally fallen into one of two extremes. Some of the books were overly technical, dealing with the minutiae of syntax and neglecting practical application of the concepts. Other books were overly practical, suggesting solutions to design problems that were not entirely compliant with the details, and were not all that sound syntactically.<br /><br />Castro's book isn't too technical or too practical; she strides confidently down a nearly perfect balance between detail and application. And the resultant text is easy to read and understandable. Highly recommended.	2002-11-03
US	38620679	RYNOHFRUEZW1	1885767455	977420055	Reforming Marriage	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Biblical principles, practical applications	Doug Wilson offers wise advice for couples in this wonderful book. He cuts right to the core of the issues, dealing with headship and marriage roles, straight from the beginning. From there he works in practical applications, such as a Biblical view of sex, birth control, and divorce. And all of it is written in a wonderfully eloquent style.<br /><br />I was quite edified by this volume, and I would highly recommend it to married couples and singles alike.	2002-10-29
US	38620679	R3W3SH827MFUDD	0851511562	6361091	Forgotten Spurgeon-out of print	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Spurgeon as he really was	This is easily my favorite biography of Spurgeon. Iain Murray covers the passion and beauty of Spurgeon's preaching which is so marvelous to read. He has a way of lifting you up and shaking you around, providing amazing illustrations, and then sending you off with encouragement.<br /><br />But this aspect of Spurgeon's preaching is what everybody talks about. What nobody talks about, the Forgotten Spurgeon, is his passion for not only preaching, but also for doctrine. This book highlights Spurgeon's battles with Arminians, Hyper-Calvinists, baptismal regenerationists, and modernists. Spurgeon was a devoted Calvinist, and this book shows how centrally Spurgeon viewed Calvinism to his preaching. It was so important to him that he would fight tooth and nail over it, not giving in until confident of doctrinal purity. Spurgeon's doctrine is the forgotten Spurgeon. And this biography is noteworthy for pointing that out.<br /><br />Recommended reading for learning more about Spurgeon, as well as for learning more about the doctrines of grace.	2002-10-29
US	38620679	R1XYWXV3VW38F2	1881189058	779870302	His Perfect Faithfulness: The Story of our Courtship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lovely	This is a very pleasant courtship story. The overwhelming theme throughout is how first there must be devotion to &lt;i&gt;God&lt;/i&gt; first, and then devotion to each other will follow. Eric and Leslie Ludy realized the priority of personal piety and obedience, and this helped them act in a faithful, upright way throughout their courtship. This is an encouraging story.	2002-10-05
US	38620679	R3IQE8DVN77TQK	0451527712	655343360	Frankenstein (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Horrifying	This book is scary - in a good way. As set apart from the typical notion of Frankenstein as a green monster with nails sticking out of his head, the true daemon was pale yellow, with flowing black hair. While many people have interpreted the novel in different ways, I feel it depicts three main points:<br /><br />1) Excessive desire for knowledge is not a good thing, as it leads to a lower appreciation of the beauty of the world. As a child, Victor Frankenstein enjoyed looking on the beautiful mountains and hills of his native Switzerland, but then he got deep into science and the secret of life. And this led him to a gloominess in life, and a lack of wonder at the world. While working on creating the creature, he says, \\"It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest, or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage: but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature.\\"<br /><br />2) Man's sinfulness always passes down to his creation, and the results are horrific. I am a Christian who believes man is sinful at heart, and I saw a dramatic illustration of this principle in Frankenstein. The sins of Victor Frankenstein passed down to his creature, and eventually it destroyed his friends, his family, and even himself. Says Frankenstein, \\"I considered the being whom I had cast among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes of horror, such as the deed which he had now done [his murder of Frankenstein's brother], nearly in the light of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced to destroy all that was dear to me.\\"<br /><br />3) Man is responsible to care for the things he creates, or else the results are dreadful. Once Frankenstein breathed life into his creature, he immediately was struck with horror and regret at what he had done, and he abdicated his responsibility to guide it. The creature consequently turned into a miserable, vengeful brute. He says, \\"I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due. Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.\\"<br /><br />I believe this novel is worth reading to gain a sense of horror at these points. It should lead us to continually appreciate the world's beauty, to always repent of our sin, and to take care of our creations, especially our children.<br /><br />If you don't read the book for these points, then just read it for a good story. It's truly fantastic. :-)mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest me. Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due. Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed. Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded. I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend. Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous.\\"<br /><br />I believe this novel is worth reading to gain a sense of horror at these points. It should lead us to continually appreciate the world's beauty, to always repent of our sin, and to take care of our creations, especially our children.<br /><br />If you don't read the book for these points, then just read it for a good story. It's truly fantastic. :-)	2002-10-05
US	38620679	R1MX1MBLQHF1Y4	0782140432	608964175	Mastering Windows 2000 Server	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thorough, yet Clear	This is the best book I've read on Windows 2K Server. Others I've read have fallen either into the trap of being too shallow and not covering enough material, or being too technical and unintelligible. I really enjoyed the depth and clarity of this book.<br /><br />It obviously isn't best to read this book cover to cover. If you're looking for that, Windows 2000 Server for Dummies was good. But if you are looking for a great reference work, I highly recommend this book.	2002-10-05
US	38620679	R1RAV04P0UFU53	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Great Christian Allegory	This book is a marvel for Christian readers. The power of fiction and fantasy worlds is in the idealistic viewpoint they provide. As Christians, we know from Scripture how the world is governed, and how we are to walk in it, but at times our vision gets clouded by constantly looking at our surroundings, and the depravity we see all around. But when we read novels with idealized settings such as in C.S. Lewis's space trilogy, we can more readily understand the fundamentals of joy, wonder, and awe at the world, under the governance of reverence for the creator.<br /><br />Out of the Silent Planet takes readers on a tour of what life would be like without the curse of the fall. The Malacandrian world is immensely beautiful and orderly, under the governance of Oyarsa, who submits to the Old One, God. The hnau, or inhabitants of the world, are so peaceful and innocent, and they offer abundant insights into proper conduct in life. I constantly found myself smiling as I saw the parallels between the various components of the book and Christian doctrine.<br /><br />Non-Christians will enjoy this book as well, of course. It is a fascinating story regardless of what you believe, although C.S. Lewis surely wrote it from a Christian worldview, and I appreciate on a deeper level since I'm a Christian.	2002-09-22
US	38620679	R1BHU2ZLSSV6KN	0071373659	735640693	Schaum's Outline of HTML	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thorough	This is one of my personal favorite HTML books. It's style is really technical, so many people will hate it. For them, I would recommend a more visual book, such as &lt;i&gt;HTML in an Instant&lt;/i&gt;, or &lt;i&gt;Teach Yourself Visually HTML&lt;/i&gt;. Those two help you get started quickly, without getting bogged down in excessive details. But for those who like a more systematic approach, going through the individual properties of each tag, this book is for you. It has extensive code snippets, details about usage, and a very clear format. It is somewhat dry reading, but the information is really packed in there if you are willing to dig it out. Very nice.	2002-09-06
US	38620679	R30QZKD955DTY2	0764536273	852576856	HTML in an Instant (Visual Read Less, Learn More)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good for the basics	A good primer on HTML and web publishing in general, if you don't want to get too deep. The tags are laid out clearly, and the methods to achieve certain looks or feels are plainly illustrated, but the book doesn't teach that much theory, so you are generally stuck with the methods they teach. Some of the methods are somewhat non-standard, which worries me, but as a whole the book is sound and easy to read. I would recommend _HTML 4 for the Worldwide Web_, by Elizabeth Castro, instead. It is very clear and basic, but it covers more of the theory so you can be a more powerful designer.	2002-09-04
US	38620679	R3HDEQPIP70ZYO	0764503413	882507994	Windows 2000 Server For Dummies	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Broad and easy to understand	I would highly recommend this book to beginners in using Windows 2000 Server, as well as those who are new to networking in general. I expected this book to be entirely devoted to the actual operating system, but the first two parts of the book cover basic characteristics of any network, and what you will need to set one up. After this fine introduction, the authors guide you through installation, configuring, and maintenance. Their style remains clear throughout the book, the jokes are not as corny as in some other Dummies books, and the directions are clear. A good book for studying Win 2K Server *and* networking in general.	2002-09-04
US	38620679	R15I408XME1J6E	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Fantastic	The Lord of the Rings is an amazing series. From the moment you read of Bilbo Baggins' setting out to kill the great dragon Smaug in the Hobbit, you are caught in the grips of a fantasy land of no equal. Middle-earth is an extensively developed world, with many maps and detailed descriptions of its various locales. And unlike fantasy lands in some other books, Middle-earth leaves you inspired and joyful about living on our own earth. You never have to worry about whether Frodo will get caught by the Ringwraiths, or whether this time Gandalf won't save them; throughout the whole story there is a sense of providence, a reassurance that good will prevail. And in the end, everyone is left singing songs and eating feasts, a tribute to the good life that is normal, but occasionally interrupted by the necessary battles with orcs and goblins. You can read these stories to your children, and teach them about how God has created our world, and governs it, and the joy that Christians have as a result. In many ways, Middle-earth *is* earth, and Tolkien forcefully presses this point home.	2002-09-03
US	38620679	R3BCZ2Y3KSGQB1	1885767269	523548202	Her Hand in Marriage: Biblical Courtship in the Modern World	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Biblical principles, practical applications	This book is my favorite on the topic of courtship. At first I was displeased with Mr. Wilson's writing style, but as I progressed through the book, the clarity and eloquence of his writing really hit home. The sheer beauty of this book is quite a wonderful tribute to the glories of courtship, and is worth reading merely for the delightful phraseology.<br /><br />But the greatest thing about this book is, of course, the content. Doug understands that the whole dating vs. courtship debate has largely been kept to the mere level of terms, instead of hashing out the underlying principles. So in Her Hand in Marriage, he first outlines the Bible's teaching on a proper path to marriage, and then he tentatively labels this system Biblical courtship. He recognizes that what is traditionally labeled dating has many success stories, and likewise, what is traditionally labeled courtship has many horror stories. This is why he wants to keep the debate to the fundamentals, and then wisdom can be shown no matter what you call the system.<br /><br />One of the key Biblical principles Doug lays out in his book is the authority of the father in the courtship process. The father, he shows through a thorough study of Old Testament passages, is responsible to protect his daughter by acting as a sieve of sorts that young men must go through before courting his daughter. Fools who might otherwise pressure his daughter to go out with them are stopped cold before they even get a chance to mess around with her. And once a proper fellow is allowed to court his daughter, the father can offer a sense of accountability so that couples in their passion might not do something they would later regret.<br /><br />After a chapter on this point, Doug then covers the different roles of boys and girls in courtship, with the boys initiating everything and the girls responding to the initiation. He shows that a great thing about courtship is that young couples are more accountable to keep their eyes on the intended culmination of marriage, rather than merely enjoying the journey. And he covers miscellaneous details such as what criteria to use when selecting a spouse, what the governmental implications of marriage are, and how weddings should be conducted.<br /><br />While the book may not be directly practical to moderners, the principles discussed make the book a worthwhile purchase. Once you get the fundamental ideas ingrained within you, God will give you wisdom to apply them to whatever situation you are in.he intended culmination of marriage, rather than merely enjoying the journey. And he covers miscellaneous details such as what criteria to use when selecting a spouse, what the governmental implications of marriage are, and how weddings should be conducted.<br /><br />While the book may not be directly practical to moderners, the principles discussed make the book a worthwhile purchase. Once you get the fundamental ideas ingrained within you, God will give you wisdom to apply them to whatever situation you are in.	2002-08-29
US	38620679	R2JYWHQPT2DFID	0929320123	672079261	Hothouse Transplants: Moving from Homeschool into the Real World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Encouraging	I would recommend this book to any homeschoolers seeking encouragement as they transfer from ordinary home life to college or employment. It is filled with assorted stories of how the training and nurturing of teaching children at home greatly helps them to expand their borders instead of confining them as so many folks assume. I myself am a recent homeschool graduate, and I can add my story of how wonderfully blessed I am to have been homeschooled. I directly link my success so far at college and work to the principles and love of God I learned at home. I have seen that homeschooling is a heritage to reverence, not one to regret, and this book offers the testimony of 16 other homeschoolers to support the same premise.	2002-08-29
US	38620679	R305TCO5CHNONO	083081339X	269600369	Evangelism & the Sovereignty of God	Books	5	67	70	N	N	Sovereignty and responsibility.	The relationship between God's sovereignty and man's responsibility is a very confusing one. On the one hand, we see in the Bible that God is sovereign over even the actions of man, since God has \\"mercy on whom He will have mercy, and whom He will He hardeneth\\" (Rom. 9:18). Even Christ's death on the cross was not done outside God's control, but He was \\"delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God\\" (Acts 3:23). This is all good and glorious as we can rest assured in God's providence and care for us, knowing that nothing will separate us from the love of Christ, not even our own sins.<br /><br />But some people lean too far toward God's sovereignty and forget all the places in Scripture that refer to commands to *do* something. \\"Work out your salvation with fear and trembling\\" (Philippians 2:12). \\"Give diligence to make your calling and election sure\\" (2 Peter 1:10). Though we know that Christ is sovereign over our works, we also know that we are entirely responsible for our works, and we mustn't forget either principle.<br /><br />Having said all this, I really enjoyed this book because J.I. Packer helped me understand all this. He showed that divine sovereignty and human responsibility are really not at odds with each other, but both promote sanctification in God's people. He showed that there is an antinomy between the two (which has been mentioned in another comment) and even though we don't entirely understand this paradox, we must accept it as God's Word shows it to be true.<br /><br />Having dealt with this issue, Packer then applies it to evangelism. He shows that only assurance of the sovereignty of God can give us true success in evangelism, because then we will not have to come up with clever methods to get people into church, or to entice them into the faith. When you are assured that God is the one that brings people to faith, you can simply proclaim God's gospel with love, and God will bring converts.<br /><br />Packer also shows that a proper understanding of human responsibility helps in evangelism as well. The burden of evangelism is still pressed upon you, and you don't sit back as the hyper-calvinists do. In addition, you can be confident in your calls for repentance and for your audience to be baptized and enter God's Church.<br /><br />Only when you hold to both sides of this paradox can you understand evangelism properly. Packer gets the paradox, and he explains and defends it *very* well.proper understanding of human responsibility helps in evangelism as well. The burden of evangelism is still pressed upon you, and you don't sit back as the hyper-calvinists do. In addition, you can be confident in your calls for repentance and for your audience to be baptized and enter God's Church.<br /><br />Only when you hold to both sides of this paradox can you understand evangelism properly. Packer gets the paradox, and he explains and defends it *very* well.	2002-07-25
US	38620679	R2Q6W5TNZ7BA5E	0486414051	656320978	Manalive (Hilarious Stories)	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Great fiction	Other people have already written on what this book is about, so I will write on why this book is so good simply taken as fiction. I find this passage, from the Warden's account of the occurences at Brakespeare College, sums it up quite well:<br /><br />\\"There is something pleasing to a mystic in such a land of mirrors. For a mystic is one who holds that two worlds are better than one. In the highest sense indeed, all thought is reflection.<br /><br />\\"This is the real truth in the saying that second thoughts are best. Animals have no second thoughts; man alone is able to see his own thought double, as a drunkard sees a lamp-post. Man alone is able to see his own thought upside down as one sees a house in a puddle. This duplication of mentality, as in a mirror, is (we repeat) the inmost thing of human philosophy. There is a mystical, even a monstrous truth in the statement that two heads are better than one. But they ought both to grow on the same body.\\"<br /><br />This is the glory of well-written fiction. Good fiction provides an engaging, lovely story full of themes both mundane and sublime, and it also acknowledges that the story is in essence a reflection of the original world and story God created. The clearer a writer's reflection of the majesty and beauty of this earthly world, the more wondrous the story. Chesterton realized that \\"a puddle repeats infinity, and is full of light; nevertheless, if analyzed objectively, a puddle is a piece of dirty water spread very thin on mud.\\" And though earthly fiction might be but a thin puddle, it repeats infinity. Manalive reflects this infinity especially well because Chesterton was truly \\"Manalive.\\"<br /><br />Definitely one of my top 5 all-time favorite books.	2002-07-25
