US	38630027	R1UIJW1N9I3PJR	0765342197	531435857	A School for Sorcery	Books	3	5	7	N	N	This School gets a "C" in my book	The title is quick to draw eager Harry Potter fans to its place on a bookshelf, and the whimsical cover may appear quirky and magical, but for fans of other \\"schools of sorcery\\", this novel may be disapointing. <br />A School for Sorcery focuses on an alternate universe based on late 19th century Europe where magic is common. Sabin's characters are original enough, but somewhat undefined; their pasts, though hinted at, are never discussed. Going in depth into an exciting magical world, what Rowling did so well with Harry Potter, Sabin fails to do with School;  the reader is left completely in the dark mysterious land. <br />It begins as Tria and her mother secretly send Tria to Simonton School for the Magically Gifted, for Tria's rare magic to be trained. Her father scorns her gift, and Tria's mother is forced to spend all her savings to pay for tuition. When Tria arrives, the school appears to be in disrepair; everything is dusty and old, and much different than the broshure. The food is bad, her vain roommate randomly turns into a panther, and mysterious students Oryan and Kress have a deadly scheme. Now she must save her love Wilce from the clutches of the Dire Women within a year or Oryan will take over the school and all the students will suffer. <br />This book teaches an artful lesson about looking beyond the obvious and what's on the inside. Sabin should be acknowledged for her beautiful use of imagery and symbolism, however, the book contained flaws as well. Tria is a strong heroine, but younger readers will not be able to appreciate the intricate plot that brings out these qualities. The plot is both thrilling and darkly brilliant, as Tria discovers herself and her magical powers. <br />This book is a good read for someone who reads a great deal; for those who like a good book only once in a while, keep searching. I reccomend books such as Ella Enchanted(Levine), Witch Week(Wynne Jones), or Dragon's Milk (Fletcher) instead.Nevertheless, fantasy fans of Anne of Green Gables would appreciate this novel as would avid readers. Its paperback edition makes it affordable enough that you can read it and pass it on to a friend.<br />So, 3 stars for originality (despite the whole Harry-Potter-but-not thing) in the plot and characters, and the other two left off for lack of character development and interest.  Happy Reading!	2004-02-03
US	38630027	R3MARSYSCP4TK9	0152025278	831561857	Sword of the Rightful King: A Novel of King Arthur	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Read this "Rightful" Novel! Exciting and Original!	What if someone had pulled the stone before Arthur?<BR>Thats the base this novel is built on, along with some cleverly written perspectives on Arthur's exciting road to Kingship. <br />Arthur is a noble and kind man and perhaps someday will be a great king. But he is still barely of age, twenty-two years old, and the disgruntled poplace of England wonders at his ability to be High King. Arthur himself, though proud, doubts his own claim to throne and is always reminded that he is king because Merlinnus wanted him to be not for his bloodright. <br />Merlinnus. The great wizard famed for his incredible powers. As an assasin creeps into the midst of Cadbury (Yolen's Camelot), Merlinnus is forced to consider the enemy that he himself helped create, and find a way to stengthen people's hearts toward Arthur. <br />Sir Gawaine is a sworn knight of the Round Table, and a loyal companion to Arthur. But his mother, powerful sorceress Morgause, despises Arthur and wishes to destroy him--and put one of her own sons on the throne. When Gawaine and three of his brothers journey to Cadbury, suspicions from all sides are thrown on them. Arthur must doubt his own friends. <br />And finally Gawen, a youngster that journeys to Cadbury seeking revenge on Gawaine for untold reasons (that is, until the end.) When Arthur refuses to take him on as one of his knights, Gawen becomes Merlinnus's assitant and much of the story unfolds through his eyes--and indeed, Gawen influences the plot very drastically. <br />Merlinnus has an ingenious plan. It started simply, putting the sword in the stone and letting it be found in the hills, inscripted with the promise that whosoever pulls it will be High King. After a little bit of show, Arthur should pull it effortlessly and no one would be able to doubt Arthur's rule. But he must bargain with his old student, Morgause, and her bitter, dark magic that is bent on revenge. <br />And he didn't count on someone pulling the sword before Arthur got to it. <br />This is a well-told tale of the early days of King Arthur's reign. Yolen makes her characters humbly and realistically flawed; Arthur is more boldly human than I've ever seen him protrayed in fiction, yet endearingly holds the qualities of nobleness and kindness associated with the traditional Arthur. Yolen artfully deceives the identity of our main protagonist, Gawen, until the very end, tying up the loose ends that were threaded throughout the novel. Gawen's insights on Cadbury and Arthur are unique and original, and allow us a very different view on the old myth. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novel. I give it four stars for being a good re-telling, refreshingly insightful, and well-written. The fifth star was left off because sometimes the plot dragged slightly in the middle and you had to be familiar with Arthurian myths to catch some of the context. <br />I would check this novel out from your library, DON'T purchase it. Its a good story to read and you'll be satisfied, especially since you didn't pay a dime for it. While captivating and intriging, once you are done, I doubt you'll want to read it again. Happy Reading!	2003-09-04
US	38630027	R3GM8BL453ACBH	0152047387	681141436	So You Want to Be a Wizard (20th): Twentieth-Anniversary Edition	Books	5	9	9	N	N	So You Want...A Great Book for Your Library! Superb!	So You Want to be a Wizard is a long-time favorite of mine--a classic and entertaining clash between magic and science that draws a reader so surely into its pages, you'll be unlikely to emerge until you have savored every word. This new edition has an adorable cover PLUS a new story about Kit and Nita included.<br />Nita didn't know there was such a thing as magic--until she was hiding in the library one day and came across nothing short of a wizard's manual--and it was waiting for her! Nita takes the wizard's oath and finds herself endowed with power that she doesn't know how to control. Along with her new friend Kit, also a wizard, Nita's first spell summons the concentrated spirit of a white dwarf star and together they spiral deep into an adventure, and finally a battle with an ancient evil that invented death itself. <br />Duane writes with a fun and inventive style that and manages to make you laugh while writing a serious adventure. This novel is truly for everyone, as the magic will simply fascinate young fans, while more advanced readers will find themselves reading in depth, wondering at the specifics of Duane's wizards and their sorcery. <br />Buyers of this edition will find that it is very cute and childish (that doens't make it bad!)--older readers might be more interested in the normal editions which have VERY cool covers that are both realistic and magical. If you plan to collect the whole series, this cover won't match the rest of the set. <br />For fans of the series who already own this book in another edition, I would not purchase this one but rather check it out of the library for the story in the back. The story isn't as good as the books, but its still enjoyable. Happy reading!	2003-08-24
US	38630027	RL874KGE0FYAS	0786805692	393951124	The Wind Singer (The Wind on Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wind "Sing"ing Praises! Lots of Adventure and Excitemen	William Nicholson crafts an exciting and imaginative tale of a brother and sister who dare to stand up against the harsh caste system of their city, Aramanth, whose goal for its people is to better themselves and better their family rating, which will rate them better jobs and better living conditions.<br />While their family's rating is dropping continually, as they are individuals who care only that they love each other. When Kestrel escapes the clutches of cruel city employees and dodges their attempts to imprison her in a \\"special school\\" to quiet her \\"radical\\" ideas of freedom, her brother Bowman chases after her. They escape the high city walls through the sewer, and find themselves in the world of the mudmen, living in abandoned salt caves filled with the waste of Aramanth. The mudmen help them on their journey to find the voice of the Wind Singer, an ancient and mysterious wind-mill-like creation that is the center of Aramanth, and with its voice, it caries the joy of all the city's people.<br />The voice was given to the evil Morah in exchange for stopping its horrible army of Zars. Now the twins and their schoolmate Mumpo are determined to win back the voice, journey across the treachorous Plains, pursued by chilling \\"old children\\" (scarier when you read the book; this book has some really meaningful ideas in it) and return to their beloved parents and younger sister.<br />This book reminds me of The Hobbit, where there is a lot of adventure and venturing into the \\"world outside.\\" I loved Kestrel and Bowman, and Mumpo, who isn't the brightest crayon in the box, but he is a true friend. The characters do have a tendency to be flat though, without motivation, or something--sometimes the text seems to be lacking somehow, though I can't quite put my finger on it.<br />The style and the idea are quite nice; I'm eager to start on the second book in the series. So four stars for being a thrilling story and the last one is left off for the mysterious flat character/ lacking element. This book is not as multi-faceted as the vivid Harry Potter books; here is a story being told simply, but charmingly. Happy Reading!acter/ lacking element. This book is not as multi-faceted as the vivid Harry Potter books; here is a story being told simply, but charmingly. Happy Reading!	2003-07-18
US	38630027	R24TIC3RHAB6R	0689855443	409966083	Mates, Dates, and Inflatable Bras	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Make a "Date" with this Book: Light and Sweet; just right!	Okay, my initial reaction to the title of this book was that it was a total rip-off of Louise Rennison's novels, and I was determined to read it, and then leave a scathingly honest review about it right here, revealing it to be a scam. <br />Alas, you can see that this is not how it ended up. See, despite the main character resembling Rennison's Georgia (both are joke-prone English 14 year olds) she is completely unique and with different goals that her counterpart. I ended up enjoying every last word of this delicious novel. <br />Lucy Loverling's life is coming undone. Suddenly, everyone is telling her to make descisions about her life she doesn't even want to think about yet. It seems like everyone else she knows, knows exactly what they want to do with their lives. Her best friend Izzie is apparently being stolen away from her by beautiful and poised Nesta, and she has to deal with her crazy and slightly poor family. Not to mention the gorgeous boy she falls for at first sight--who turns out to be Nesta's brother!<br />A cute story about finding your identity and finding your friends. A happily ever after with fun characters who are well-rounded and geared for sequels to come. 4 stars because it was sweet and fun and meaningful, but it lost the fifth to unoriginallity. I can't wait to read the sequel!<br />Have fun reading this feel-good novel and look out for future novels to come! Happy Reading!	2003-06-15
US	38630027	R2LOVQI6AJBXWD	0743437314	874934684	The Merchant of Death (Pendragon)	Books	4	48	50	N	N	"Pen"ed to the Pages: A Pageturner full of Twists	At first sighting, this book looked distinctly, er, okay, boyish, from the apparently gruesome title and sinister looking cover. It took one of my friends saying \\"you HAVE to read this\\" to get me to buy it. Even then I suspected that \\"the Merchant of Death\\" was definitely not something I was going to buy into.<br />SUPRISE! I opened the cover and was shocked to discover that the first thing Bobby Pendragon (our protoganist) was doing was kissing a girl! The book was certainly more appealing now with a tad bit of romance and I started to enjoy the story. <br />Bobby Pendragon's Uncle Press shows up unexpectedly and sweeps him away to another \\"territory\\" called Denduron, through a doorway in a New York subway tunnel (no easy access here!) despite being chased by wild beasts called quigs. Bobby soon realizes that his notions of reality are way off. <br />Bobby is fated to help save the Milago people from their oppressors, the people of the neighboring Bedoowan. Reluctant and scared, Bobby wants to return to his perfect life at home, where he was considered smart, popular, a jock, and not to mention the love interest of the coolest girl in his grade. But no such luck; he must learn how to use his Traveler powers to help save this world...and all the others...from complete distruction...<br />I really enjoyed this novel. It is told in narrative form as Bobby writes scrolls back to his best friend Mark and sort-of girlfriend Courtney back on Second-Earth to tell them what is happening, and then switches to third-person once in a while to describe what Courtney and Mark are doing. It was fast-paced and Bobby's witty comments made me laugh. <br />Be warned, this novel also contains explicit language and the afore-mentioned making-out scenes. These parts are appropriate however, and I think that they added a sense of humanity to the read. I'd say do not let this stop you from reading the book!<br />So go grab the book at your local bookstore and spread the word: its not justfor boys! 4 stars for lots of action, not a 5 because the plot was simplistic. I hope the sequel, the Lost City of Faar, is just as good! Happy Reading!	2003-06-11
US	38630027	R2YULR4VT1E7OH	0152046151	973407263	Sorcery and Cecelia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot	Books	5	128	129	N	N	Jane Austen meets J.K. Rowling: Intriguing and Fun	Okay, here's another book that I snagged off the shelf for its gorgeous cover. I loved the idea of an enchanted chocolate pot and perhaps was even more overjoyed to find that it was written by two of my favorite authors, (Wrede, of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles, and Stevermer, of A College of Magics.) and horrified that I hadn't read it before, as this was simply a republication of the original, published in 1987!<br />Already holding high expectations from the book, I was suprised when it started out slow. Used to the fast paced Harry Potter or the action-to-the-minute Enchanted Forest Chronicles, it took me a few chapters to really connect with the characters. <br />Written in letter form between two cousins, Kate and Cecelia, the book takes place in an alternate (magical) universe in England 1817. The two are well-born girls; Kate is off having a Season in London while Cecelia stays at home in the country. Kate feels pushed aside by her beautiful sister Georgina; Cecelia is put out by not being allowed a Season of her own. <br />But the plot soon picks up as the two girls' stories intertwine. In the country, ordinary Dorothea becomes irresistable to all men. Clever Cecelia befriends her and starts to unwind the mystery behind the weird attraction. Meanwhile, in London, Kate is almost poisoned by an \\"old\\" lady in a garden and befriends an \\"odious\\" Marquis to whom the retrieval of the the Enchanted Chocolate Pot is quite important. <br />The language and the magic in the book speak for themselves; I was completely drawn into this unique world. The intrigue and mystery were believable and definitely kept me turning pages. Kate and Cecelia's letters are witty and funny as they dabble in sorcery and try to save the Marquis of Shofield and themselves from the clutches of the estranged sorcerers Lady Miranda and Sir Hilary. <br />So...I would definitely reccommend this novel. IT WAS FABULOUS! This review really doesn't do the book justice. YOU HAVE TO READ IT! If youhave any respect for fantasy novels, you simply must purshase this book. Consider making it a part of your permanent library. (You'll be wanting to read it again, I promise!)<br />Happy Reading! And watch for a its sequel, The Grand Tour, which might be out this summer!	2003-05-24
US	38630027	R36OF3RFTDG0A3	0060526777	823798173	Princess Lessons (A Princess Diaries Book)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Fun, but Unsubstantial : A Quick One- Afternoon Read	Okay, Meg Cabot has definitely won herself a nice cozy place atop the literary-must-be-read authors, but Princess Lessons is less of the novel I had expected (in fact, its not a novel at all) and more an feel-good/look-good book for teens. <br />So some of the stuff is cute and fun to read with commentary from our favorite Princess Diary characters and with some definite hints about Prince Rene's involvement in further novels (hello, he's like her cousin! excuse me, but please don't set Mia up with him!) <br />... <br />So, three stars because it did have some fun stuff in it, but had nothing substantial for a reader to feast upon.<br />Happy Reading!	2003-05-11
US	38630027	R342V5TOX6PHCR	0786819146	442293804	The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl, Book 3)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	DECODED: An Action-packed and fun novel--hilarious!	HE'S BAAACK! Yes, Artemis Fowl is back in action in the third addition to the hit series. The book is packed full with action and lives up to the promises of the other books.<br />Artemis Fowl is coming to grips with the return of his kidnapped father and Fowl Sr.'s newly formed conscience. His parents are insisting on turning around the illegal enterprises of the Fowl Family, but Artemis isn't so sure. Still, in an effort to please his parents, he decides that he will commit just one last crime. Just a tiny one.<br />But, Artemis didn't count on the operation blowing up in his face. When he meets with American master criminal Jon Spiro, he didn't realize he was being set up. All Artemis wanted to do was intimidate him a little bit with his new \\"C Cube\\", a hybrid of fairy and human technology decades ahead of its time; it will render all other technologies--like the ones Spiro creates--obsolete. So when Spiro steals the Cube and mortally wounds Butler in an attempt to murder Artemis, the young master criminal is forced to seek the aid of his long-time adversaries.<br />The Fairies are less than pleased when Artemis reveals his loss of the fairy technology, that, in the wrong hands, would be capable of revealing the entire Fairy civilization. Determined to steal back the C Cube, Artemis enlists the aid of Captain Holly Short and the Fairy criminal Mulch Diggums in a risky operation that takes place in Chicago.<br />Great fun! Colfer exercises his great prowess as a writer as he seamlessly winds the third story of Artemis Fowl. The funny, witty characters manage to be charming and tough. The only qualm I had was that Holly and Artemis had less interaction that they did in #2, which would have added even more humor to the novel. We also get to know Juliet Butler better, which is a good addition to the story.<br />Okay, do you really have to read this review to know you NEED TO READ this book? I didn't think so. If you haven't, read the others first. And when you have finished all three, you'll be hoping that Colfer will produce a fourth (its rumored that it will be quartet.)<br />So Happy Reading! You'll have lots of fun with this one...	2003-05-11
US	38630027	R3QZIEFL69LY3V	0441009077	459127178	Never After	Books	2	2	6	N	N	A Fallen Fariytale: Had Potential, but Ultimately Disapoints	At first, it seemed like Lickiss was doing everything right. She developed her fun malady of off-center characters in surroundings that led us to understand more about their motives and their personalities. She had the perfect set and the perfect twisted fairy tale (3 sleeping princes, not 1 sleeping princess). What could go wrong? It was such a good start...<br />But no. Somehow, Lickiss manages to keep her flight-intended characters grounded. Don't ask me how; don't ask me why. The characters do not interact the way their should; they form no specific relationships. Cousins Princess Vevila and Prince Athelstan provide little entertainment, as Vevila seems to be completely heartless (as no heroine, not even a boyish princess, should be) and Athelstan spends the entire time sulking after an asleep princess whom he's never met. The only bright spot on the picture is clever, witty Rumplestiltskin and his illuminating sense of humor. At the end the story picks up, but the plot lags tremendously in the middle.<BR> <BR>Okay, read it if you want to. The idea is good, but the story fell through. Lickiss is a good writer and no doubt probably could have pulled off the story had someone given her some direction. For bookworms and very intense readers, it'll be enough worth your time just to whiz through it within a few hours. For those who are looking for a novel to read in their spare time, I don't recommend this book. Its far to dull to be picked up and put down again periodically.<br />Reader beware! This was a rather boring book and, if it is to be enjoyed at all, must be enjoyed through the idea of the adventure and not how the author portrays it. Happy (or not) Reading!	2003-05-10
US	38630027	R32CPX9RVIQEUX	0756400740	179179359	The Curse of Arkady: The Magickers #2	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not A Curse at All...Lots of Reading Fun!	Okay, the prequel was good. Okay, really good. And the sequel does everything to live up to its predessor. If you haven't read The Magickers, pick it up before you have a go at this story.<BR> <BR>Student Magickers Jason, Bailey, Trent, and Ling have left their beloved camp Ravenwyng and returned to their old lives while their Magickal Teachers struggle to create a Haven where they can safely teach the children. But in the mean time, life is much more complicated for the teens. They must adjust to the differences in themselves and struggle with their families' ignorance of their Magick. Not to mention, the Dark Hand of Brennard hovers ever closer and the students are plagued by the mysterious Curse of Arkady. (Drake never really tells us what exactly the Curse is...perhaps saving it for a later book?)<br />While my writer's instincts tell me the style of this piece is a mess, I can't help but be terribly excited by the prospect of the story; I was CAPTIVATED the entire time! Something about the characters and the story is downright fascinating. I literally couldn't stop thinking about it.<br />But, this could just be what I like to call Potter Deprivation Syndrome and I am just using this similar book to fill my empty days as a Harry Potter fan. It is true that the Mackigers seem to be oddly like the old Hogwarts crew. But Drake, instead of pretending she took none of her ideas from the Potter books, acknowledges their existance! CLEVER AND WISE MOVE! The characters make several references to the \\"fictional books\\" which makes the book all the more intriguing, especially since this book is so recent, and the last HP was published nearly three years ago. <br />So please...I'm telling you. Read this book. And its prequel. And Arkady's sequel which is going to be available in July. (Ack, again, nice timing: readers will be finished with Order of the Phoinex by that point and will need some serious recuperation time.) <br />(Alas, another failed attempt to keep Harry Potter out of my reviews. Sorry it didn't work.) Anyway, Happy Reading! A Highly Recommended book!	2003-05-10
US	38630027	R2AQMWP4AE6P10	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	0	N	N	DE"CODE"D: Fascinating, Quick, Exciting and Funny	Okay, this was the first Dan Brown book I've read and it was nothing short of EXCELLENT. The writing is fresh and doesn't waste time wwith lagging descriptions; the observations made of interesting and give you a good scope of the characters and settings.<br />Robert Langdon, a symbology professor at Harvard, finds himself mixed-up in the case of the murder of the famous currator of the Louvre. Accompanied by the victim's clever granddaughter, Sophie Nevue, the two make their escape from Paris, on a mysterious scavenger hunt linked to the Priory of Sion, an ancient organization that protects the Holy Grail from the Vatican Church. Sophie, who had not spoken to her grandfather in a decade because of a Sion rite that she had witnessed, starts to realize the truth about her family.<br />Her grandfather's murderer, an agent of the Opus Dei, a strictly conservative Catholic organization, continues to chase them through Europe, alongside Parisian police.<br />A spicy work; Dan Brown shows enormous prowess at his trade. I loved all the history interwined with the plot and the fascinating conspiracy of Christ's questionable divinity. This the laugh, sit-on-the-edge of your chair, and make-you-think type of book. Top notch adventure and a twist of romance. Perfect.<br />-Liaden	2003-04-13
US	38630027	RQMSAQJFZD2YL	0618055231	61458844	The Rumpelstiltskin Problem	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Golden Fun :  Rumpelstiltskin never made more sense!	Okay, so we all know the Brothers Grimm had it all wrong; we know there had to be a reason the miller was willing to give up his only daughter. We knew it. Forget the Grimms. Take the Vande Velde Route, ie, the one that makes you laugh as well as making sense. <br />Vande Velde delivers her audience many scrumptous tales of Rumpelstiltskin--all refreshing and unique. Not a one didn't leave me laughing and thoughtful. HOORAY! A Rumpelstiltskin that isn't a \\"Problem.\\" <br />Mix humor, good sense, and a dash of \\"strong heroines\\" and you've got your \\"Rumpelstiltskin Problem.\\" Only one problem; sometimes a little dragging, but that is easily overlooked. So my advise to you? Pick it up at the library or store as soon as possible! It'll be worth the trip!<br />Happy reading!	2003-03-26
US	38630027	RG7ACL8R5W2QS	0152166637	853680478	Dragon's Bait	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Hook! Line! Sinker! "Bait" had me hooked!!	Okay, so the title of this review is corny. But the book is wonderful; another of Vande Velde's recent publishings which, in my opinion, ever topple the last one in excellence. <br />In this book, fifteen year old Alys is learning how to fend for herself; her frail father is barely recovering from the winter's sickness while she must learn his tin-making trade to keep them  both alive. <br />All this comes crashing down upon her ears when she is accused of witchcraft (of which she is innocent) by her scheming neighbors, plotting to take her father's land from her. The clever inquistor from a neighboring village incriminates her before her friends can step in. Soon, Alys finds herself as \\"Dragon's Bait,\\" left as food for a fearsome dragon that ravages the nearby countryside. <br />But Alys is in for a suprise. The dragon is capable of many transformations; including that of a human. Instead of adding her to his menu, he spares her life, and inevitably becomes her aly, if not her friend. <br />Alys is infuriated by the dragon (who speaks with her in his human form; that of a handsome seventeen year old youth) who seems to have no use for her--except that he is willing to help her get her revenge. And as she soon learns, revenge is something that the dragon, Selendrile, is very good at. <br />But is revenge what Alys really wants? A witty funny novel about revenge and its cost and spoils.<br />WAIT! DON'T STOP NOW! There is something very important that I would like to tell you about this book. I fear that I have doomed it into being serious; THIS BOOK IS FUNNY! Well, it has dark under-tones, but it is witty, clever, and fast-paced fantasy. <br />Vande Velde demonstrates her skilled capacity for fantasy in this novel. Her strong heroine and  handsome dragon companion make an endearing cast for her novel. THE PROBLEM! This book is like a small chocolate; you savor it for as long as you can, yet you still find yourself craving for more afterward. <br />So what do you think? Even if you hated everything I had to say, I would say, give it a try! Even the anti-fantasy reader will enjoy this morsel of a novel! If you like Vande Velde, I would reccomend her other books, like Heir Apparent (I wrote a review for that also--check it out!) <br />So...happy reading!	2003-03-26
US	38630027	RW4HHXUJL775B	044100945X	392803311	First Truth (Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	WOW! Enticing and Refreshing!	If I were to say one thing to someone who was brousing in a book store or a library and picked up this book, it would probably be the following:<br />\\"Get it before someone else snatches it out of your hands!\\"<br />Okay, so maybe I'm being too enthusiastic. The medeival-ish, magic-ish (yes, two of the things I look for in a good cover) appeal of the book's cover drew me to it. But once I flipped open the first few pages, I quickly forgot the cover and rushed to finish the book. <br />Alissa doesn't belong; she is a driven antoganist with exceptional qualities--both physical and mental--that keep her apart from the rest of the world. Her magician Keeper father disapeared when she was a young girl; but now she's nearly twenty and her mother is sending her out in the world to follow in the footsteps of her father. Against her will, Alissa leaves her dear mother and heads toward the mysterious Hold,, the place of magical Keepers. <br />On the way, Alissa meets up with the likeable Strell, a wandering musician who discovers that in the years that he left his family to become a bard, that they all have been killed in a great flood. Both alone and friendless, the two agree to travel with one another despite boiling tempers between them and a bad first start. (Hmmm, could Cook possibly be leading up to something here? I hope so.)<br />But once they reach the Hold they realize their only hope is to trust one another and battle the evil astrayed Keeper who now controls the empty Hold. Can they keep Alissa's Keeper powers a secret from the jealous Bailey and solve the mystery behind the emptyness of the Hold and Alissa's father's death?<br />An excellent, refreshing piece of fiction! Dawn Cook provide's a delicious stew for us to sip on--unfortunately, the book (which deceivingly looks long with its 250-some pages at first) is very short. In other words, you'd be best to pick up the sequel, Hidden Truth, in the same book-stop or you'll be in withdrawal until you get it. Unfortunately, all those, including me, who have already gulped down the first two novels, are waiting awkwardly for the third course. <br />I would reccomend this novel is for advanced readers. (At least teen) but I assure you any adult would delight in it also. <br />Cook has designed a promising menu in her excellent plot, served us two helpings and has more coming! Excuse the puns on food, but this book is truly excellent. And the series? A set of delicasies! Happy reading!	2003-03-25
US	38630027	RYE5OQQZLP8B0	0152045600	739677228	Heir Apparent	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Apparent-ly fun!	Okay, so the real reason I snatched this book off the library shelf was because I liked the colorful spine. And because I knew that this book was wedged between two other Vande Velde novels; why not? I liked the author, and it sounded like my kind of book.  <br />But once I started reading, I couldn't tear myself away from the pages. It was not cliche as so many library finds proved to be; it was original, witty, and dead-on funny. <br />Giannine Bellisario is a fourteen year old girl who lives (apparently) many years in the future, in a time of smart computers and talking buses. Arcades that will hook you up to a computer and let you be &quot;in&quot; the game. Which is exactly what Giannine is planning to do with the certificate her father gave (suprisingly on-time)to her for her birthday. <br />Giannine selects the game she wants to be in; Heir Apparent, a semi-difficult role-play game in which she is to claim the throne to her country, left to her by her father the King. The unknowing Heir Apparent must work around their scheming siblings and play the game just right to get out. Easy, and if you fail, no big deal, it was fun playing. Right? Well, maybe not for Giannine.<br />Everything wouyld have been fine if the people from CPOC (citizens to protect our children), attempting to &quot;save the children from their imaginations&quot;, hadn't messed up the system while she was still hooked up to the machine. Now Giannine has only a limited time left to complete the game correctly--or they won't be able to get her out alive.<br />Fun, furturistic, and true to the life of a fourteen year old girl (from one), this novel was a good read. I would reccomend it to anyone who has an open mind and who likes an original story. However, I do think that some people would think that this novel was just not to your taste; if you like this kind of thing, no doubt you'll love it, but if you aren't into this kind of novel, you'd probably hate it. The reason I left off the fifth star was because I felt sometimes the storyline lagged, otherwise it deserved full ratings. <br />Okay, so have fun with this book! I know I did. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Bye! -Lia	2003-02-17
US	38630027	R3SJKIU3VSU7PK	0886779359	135835309	The Magickers: The Magickers #1	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pure Magic! Original Magical Fun...	Jason Adrian is plagued by nightmares of his dead parents, nightmares that feed off his wild imagination and love for books and all things fantasy. While he lives with his stepmother's new family, he can hardly help feeling like he doesn't belong. And as a soccor injury prevents him from attending his long-awaited summer-camp, Jason is all but resigned to spend the entire summer with his dull grandmother while the rest of his family is on vacation and away at camp.<br />But a stroke of luck; his English teacher informs him that he has been invited to a new camp featuring kids with vivid  imaginations, chosen from creative essays they had written. Choosing the better of two evils (his grandmother's, or \\"geek camp\\") he decides to attend Camp Ravenwyng. <br />Camp Ravenwyng, he soon discovers, is a lot more than it appears to be--and not at all the \\"geek camp\\" he expected. They do all kinds of interesting things like botany, naming objects; everything the campers do is somehow a test they are being judged on. And then there are weird things, too. Councellors that are strangely out of tune with the world; strange occurances in the night, and weird conversations that Jason alone seems to hear. Not to mention a mysterious cut on his hand that no one wants to explain--what is it the Councellors are trying to hide?  <br />Soon our young campers are thrust into a world of magic, using a magic they never knew they had. But a storm of angry magic lurks ever nearer the campground...will Jason and his friends be able to save the one place they've ever felt they belong? A hearty adventure with a twist along every corner. <br />I LOVE THIS BOOK! Well-written, well-woven, and well-thoughtout, Emily Drake has created a star-studded cast of characters that we are not likely to forget. Apparently these books are disapearing quickly (note the dwindling availibility right next to the price-tag) so order fast! Its worth your $$$ and your time.<BR>And just wait till you see the sequel...<BR>-Lia	2002-11-12
US	38630027	R3252PIMKAUMLG	0590371258	253930945	Out Of The Dust	Books	4	1	1	N	N	EXCELLENT! Abstract & beautifully portrayed.	This novel is simply stirring. Hesse uses rough verse to make an entire novel and to weave story of Billie Jo, though the young girl's eyes. She makes the tiny pieces of human thought into poetry to an amazing degree. <br />Billie Jo is the only child of her Ma and Pa. Ma is uncomfortable in the Oklahoma Dustbowl, sick of dust everywhere and slowing wasting away until she dies after an accidential fire. Her father is a stubborn farmer who refuses to give up on the land he loves with pain. Billie Jo and her father are so alike; quiet and not sure what to make of the silence after Ma's and little Franklin's (the child she was carrying) death. <br />And Billie Jo, who longs for something she can't have in the Dustbowl, who once lived to play the piano, cannot play without enduring severe pain from her burned hands; another pain stolen from her after the fire.<BR> <BR>Slowly, she learns the lesson of growing anew in place that has no suitable soil and how starting afresh can be good. A beautiful story and better crafted.<br />Then again, sometimes it was hard to follow Billie Jo. She talks casually and sometimes we don't understand what she is doing. Sometimes the writing is boring, sometimes extremely interesting. You must be captivated by the story to read this book, otherwise I would reccommend you read something less abstract. This book is for people who are able to see art in writing. <br />Happy Reading! -Lia	2002-06-25
US	38630027	R1IE1HE4UG0WCU	0786806184	228348729	Amandine	Books	3	0	1	N	N	SCARY! (honestly, this book gave me the heeby-jeebies!)	I'll be brief and tell you that this book was really intriguing and well-crafted--however the ideas in it were a little creepy. Our main character, Delia, has just moved to a small town. She doesn't fit in well at school, and feels as if she is a disapointment to her charming and popular parents. One afternoon, she meets Amandine, a strange, artistic girl waiting for her father afterschool. Amandine offers Delia a chance to see her drawings of the \\"Ugliest Things you ever saw\\"...for money. Delia refuses and they are friends ever on out. (Not your average friendship, eh?)<br />However, Delia is dragged into the dramatic world of Amandine; a girl who does not have a self, rather, many characters of whom she plays. Amandine is an actress, an artist, and--sadistic? When Delia realizes the true Amandine is not at all the nice character that she plays when she is with Delia, she flees her friendship thinking that everything will be all right. However, the last thing anyone needs is to be on the wrong side of Amandine...a lesson Delia learns very quickly. <br />Scary. I wouldn't read it again. This book shines with bitter revenge, false friendship, and the unbalanced human mind. yet, the writing was very good and if you are into the dark, vampiry side of human nature, this is the book for you. <BR>Happy (or unhappy, I suppose w/ this book) reading! -lia	2002-06-23
US	38630027	R2HOEJ75QSVLPN	0679865691	177632060	Haveli	Books	5	19	21	N	N	WOW! (really the best word for it!)	Shabanu, Staple's first novel, was simply enchanting and fascinating. The sequel, Haveli, was certainly no disapointment. Readers may rejoice at Ms. Staples' excellent storylines and tale: it is well-balanced and brings us back to the small, hard world of Shabanu. <br />In this book, 18 year old Shabanu is married to a man almost twice her age and has a small daughter whom she devotes her life to. Shabanu must deal with the every day challenges of her harsh life in Pakistan without the family that she has always relied on. The other, older wives of her husband are cruel to her and her daughter, jealous of the young girl whom their husband loves so dearly. Shabanu fears that they might try to harm her and her daughter, and therefore is relieved when they are offered the opportunity to go into the city dwelling of Haveli. There Shabanu finds both peace and a forbidden love. While she battles with her concious, she makes plans for her daughter's education and upbringing. A truly magical tale of real life and of a culture that no one understands. <br />This book is different from all others. It brings us into a culture we don't understand and, especially in times like these, helps us accept and realize how much like us they really are. I reccomend this book to children ages 10 and up, and adults everywhere who have a love of good books. <br />One of the best books I have read. As an 8th grader, I read a lot and this book deserves the highest praise. This book will make you rethink your philosophies, and wring your heart. I beg you to read this book! <br />Happy reading! -Lia	2002-06-17
US	38630027	R2OT869KAQCJXT	0395640512	952180784	The Widow's Broom	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Clever and well-written; something anyone can enjoy!	Chris Van Alsburg is widely known as an excellent story-teller and this book is no disapointment. He weaves a fascinating, sweet'n'sour tale of a widow and the witch's broom that she holds so dearly to her heart. Moving and craftily written, I suggest this book for anyone who wishes to read a good old fashioned tale of friendship.<br />I would not reccomend this book for children under 6 years. Though it has a happy ending, it does have some darker themes that would be inappropriate to present to young children if only for the reason that they wouldn't understand them. <br />Regardless, an excellent book if you are in the market for one. Happy reading! -Lia	2002-06-16
US	38630027	RUUWVH4ZRF7JS	0590396552	933360538	Cold Fire (The Circle Opens #3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WONDERFUL! A MUST READ!	I first fell in love with Tamora Pierce's excellant novels two years ago and sequentially read all her books within a week. Her wonderful plots and ideas are delicious mixed together with her vibrant and fun characters. Cold Fire was an excellent addition to the series and I found it utterly satisfying to return to the world of Daja and her three friends, if even just for teh afternoon it took me to whiz through it. <br />Daja, just 14 years old, is already a full mage and charged with the responsibilities of one. Like her fostersiblings, she is faced with the challenge of teaching young mages that she's discovered. As well as teaching the twins that she is charged with, she must get to the bottom of a set of arsonries in a town that is made entirely of wood. <br />Once again, a must read for everyone, and a must-have for every Tamora Pierce fan. If you haven't, you should seriously consider picking up all of Ms. Pierce's books as soon as possible! <br />Happy Reading![....]	2002-06-15
US	38630027	R1NM0HESXM8QKY	0439296536	398610161	Spellfall	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Excellent Story --Harry Potter Fans Rejoice!	Twelve-year-old Natalie is recycling her cans when she is confronted by a ragged old man in the supermarket parking lot who tries to lure her into becoming part of his renegade band of oucast wizards. So begins her adventure in which she is hunted by this man and his spellclave, only to find the true source of her blind mother's death and the magical destiny that awaits her in an paralell world to our own. <br />Pick up this book and you will not be disapointed. With a touch of Harry Potter and spoonful of Tamora Pierce, you will enjoy every last drop of this utterly mind-stirring novel! (Be warned, however, sometimes the writing lags a little, but I would hope something like this would NEVER stop you from reading such a great book!)<br />Happy Reading![...]	2002-06-15
US	38630027	R39GJN95EGOCH7	0375802665	118735114	Sammy Keyes and the Hollywood Mummy	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A good read, however, don't be disapointed...	Wendelin Van Draan once more draws us head first into the world of Sammy Keyes; thirteen year-old detedtive--unofficially of course. Sammy's mother (\\"Lady\\" Lana) left her to stake out success in Hollywood and Sammy has spent the last years with her Grandmother. However, Sammy is sick of waiting for her mom to get back and decides to do something about it. But when she arrives, Sammy is shocked to discover that her mother has shed 15 years off her age, changed her appearance and her name. But now that \\"Lady Lana\\" is \\"20\\" again, it would be rather suspicious if she had a 13 year old daughter, and Sammy's mom is all for sending her home on the next bus only to forget about her again. But in the midst of all this, one of actresses living in the same acting agency as Lana is murdered; suddenly, Sammy's mom is a suspect and a target and its up to Sammy to solve the twisted mystery of the Hollywood Mummy. <br />Okay, so this book isn't as \\"grasping\\" as the other books. In some ways, it lacks character developement and is overloaded with plot. In other words, we don't know enough about all teh characters to take a deep interest in all that they are doing. Still worth reading for fans of the series however. If you haven't read teh other books, I suggest going back and reading the first one; Sammy Keyes and the Hotel Thief, which was much better. <br />Happy reading always! -Lia	2002-06-15
US	38630027	R1I7NMDI1M5A81	0060293152	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A story of love, loyalty, and enchantment--a fabulous read	A deep and philosophical Levine weaves this enchanting tale of the two princesses of Bamarre; best friends and literary foils. As different as they are, they have formed the perfect sibling relationship in which they can work to together to use their strengths and weaknesses. Meryl, brave and adventurous, is the leader of the group and Addie is timid and kind one. But when the deadly grey death comes to grasp their homeland and claims Meryl's health, the shy and unobtrusive Addie is devastated and forces herself to find a cure while her sister becomes worse. Addie's adventures are original, exciting and will keep readers on their toes every moment. <br />This book is Levine at her very best. She combines love, romance, loyalty, and over-coming the fears we have to the ultimate level. This is one of the best books I have ever read, no question. -Lia	2002-05-25
US	38630027	R2EIIZVJKM0DKL	0140388346	237471096	The Thief	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Book that Should Have Won the NB Medal	A fast-paced, cleverly written adventure about a fictionous world and a clever thief, who is George Clooney in Ocean's Eleven or Piers Brosnon in The Thomas Crown Affair. Gen, having been in prison for six months for bragging for being able to steal anything, is released by the King's Magus: the smartest man in the kingdom who is determined to get a legendary stone that he wants Gen to steal. If Gen can fetch the stone, he will be granted his freedom. However, cocky and clever Gen has his own ideas about how this plan is going to work...<br />The PERFECT novel to read. Exciting and deliciously witty, Whalen Turner keeps us reading as fast as possible. A twist ending awaits in the last pages of the book. When your done with that, you should definitely go pick up the sequel, The Queen of Attolia. -Lia	2002-05-25
US	38630027	R1MJY9HPHAWUMA	0064405176	48976284	Walk Two Moons	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Well-written however hard to get into	As a huge fan of Sharon Creech's work, I was rather disapointed by this book. As well-written as it is, Creech failed to \\"loop-me-in\\" this time. I found myself uninterested in the plot and the character and eventually just had to stop reading all together. <br />I would not reccommend this book. Not to say that you might not like it and it wasn't me, but the plot seemed dragging. Instead, I might read Creech's Bloomability or Absolutely Normal Chaos: two books where Creech really hits it right. Hope this was helpful! -Lia	2002-05-25
US	38630027	R1SJ8OR5MYQ95D	0380814439	408498047	Truth or Dairy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hilarious and Realistic = One cool read	Courtney Van Draagen Smith is the charming character of Catherine Clark's hilarious and awesome book Truth or Dairy. Her witty diary and opinions are what any teen (coming from one) can definitely realte to. Just as her long-time boyfriend Dave breaks up with her when he goes off to college, she pledges that she's going to take a year off from boys, but a boy-free year, as many of us will find is sometimes one of the most difficult things to acheive. Here is a hilarious book that is light, funny, and definitely worth putting down whatever your doing to read.  This book can get dragging between major events--still worth every moment though. I'd most certainly buy it!...	2002-05-24
US	38630027	R3FPMYWVG8CE2R	0394825985	607342565	Wise Child	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Something for Everyone - Enchanting and Interesing	Welcome to the world of ancient world of witchcraft that was true and not what so many people see it as today. Furlong has created a place of magic from the land of the druids. Taken in by the town witch whom everyone in the village suspicious of, but does not get rid of because she cures their ills after her cousins give her up. Now considered an orphan, the spoiled Wise Child learns much about life and her future from the slightly omniscient Juniper, her witch-teacher who teaches her to read books, the stars, and people. But when temptation of a better life lures the young girl away, she is forced to choose between a woman who has become her best friend and the mother who gave her up long year ago. <br />Deep and beautiful, enchanting and full of stirring thoughts and passageways into an ancient cutlture, you won't want to put this book down. Five stars because there is nothing that compares to this book. -Lia	2002-05-24
US	38630027	R2USWDDSOKG6AW	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Finally its here!	I've been an absolute fan of these books from the start and readers of the other books (The Princess Diaries, Princess in the Spotlight) will find it as delgihtful and fun as the first two in the series that will hopefully have many more installments. <BR>  As Mia delves deep into the problem of not liking the boyfriend she's got (and being head over heals for the one she can't have), she works her way through many delightful and terribly true-to-life teenage experiences mixed with a charming 21st century version of pauper to princess experiences that are so realistic, Cabot will have you thinking you've got the story of a real-life princess in your hands as you read. <BR>  As an 8th grader, there is nothing that could be more fun and entertaining that I can read. A whooping five stars for a book that I read in an afternoon...when I was supposed to be doing my social studies report--it's that good. Be sure you don't have anything planned the afternoon you pick this book up! -Lia	2002-05-24
US	38630027	R2OZN3JQ0TQK7E	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Artemis Brings Joy to the Long Days of a Harry Potter fan...	Artemis, quick, smart, and eager to rule the world, is trying his biggest stunt yet; to steal secrets from the elusive and technologically advanced Fairies in order to restore his family's lost fortune. <BR>But Artemis does not fully understand the modern day fairies: the ones with guns and biological time weapons, not to mention all kinds of handy gadgets. Not sound like your cup of tea? Throw in Captain Holly Short of the LEP program--the first female fairy to reach her rank. Nothing like a strong female heroine to make a book worth reading...and nothing like one to stop the plans of everyone's favorite 12 year old criminal genius. <BR>This book is not for people who do not have a sharp mind that can keep pace with the very military fairies and their general on-goings, and readers will definitely not know which side to root for. Overall, a book you won't want to miss for the world.	2002-05-23
