US	38648243	R226DYDKRVCCBN	0312321473	525459354	The First Wife: A Novel of Suspense	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Confused in NJ...	I have to admit that this book left me more than a little bit confused.  The description they give this book is that it is about a woman who gets swept off her feet by one of the richest men in the world.  The reader gets the impression that they have a whirlwind romance, fall madly in love and finally marry only to have the husbands past come back to haunt him in the form of his dead wife.  However, in actually reading this book that did not seem to be the case, there was no whirlwind romance.  In fact the romance part was very flat.  Jane, the heroine of `THE FIRST WIFE', went out on a total of two and a half mediocre dates (on one of which she was almost killed) with the powerful William Andrews before she agreed to marry him.  She clearly did not want to marry this man, even rehearsed her speech on how to let him down easily when all of a sudden she decided to say yes.  She debated everyday whether or not she actually loved Andrews all the while keeping up an investigation into his first wife's murder (which she believed was at the hand of her betrothed) and having way too many suspicious brushes with death.  Moreover, Jane finds evidence of an on going affair between William and another woman.  Now my question is, who in their right mind would enter into this marriage and why?  Had Jane been only after Andrews money this story would have been a bit more believable, however Diamond painted Jane to be a woman of high morality who despite all of these \\"obstacles\\" began to genuinely fall in love with her fianc&eacute;.  Diana Diamond is a pseudonym for a male mystery writer, which you can clearly tell in `THE FIRST WIFE'.  I believe that a woman would have fleshed out the romance a bit and made the decision on whether or not to marry William Andrews a no-brainer for Jane and for the reader.<br /><br />Also, it didn't seem as though Andrews was obsessed with the death of his first wife, as stated in the description. It was more like Jane who was obsessed with investigating the details of the first wife's life and her death.  Which, of course, only brought more trouble for her.<br /><br />If you have read any of my other reviews of Diamonds books they have all, with the exception of `THE BABYSITTER' generated three stars.  One may wonder, why do I keep reading her books if I only find them to be average?  I read them because they are very easy to read, never boring and often times unintentionally funny. Definitely a break from some of the more serious mysteries.ting the details of the first wife's life and her death.  Which, of course, only brought more trouble for her.   <br /> <br />If you have read any of my other reviews of Diamonds books they have all, with the exception of `THE BABYSITTER' generated three stars.  One may wonder, why do I keep reading her books if I only find them to be average?  I read them because they are very easy to read, never boring and often times unintentionally funny. Definitely a break from some of the more serious mysteries. <br />	2005-10-08
US	38648243	R29UA44IFW6RO5	141650558X	675859957	Younger	Books	3	4	5	N	N	What would you do?	If you had the chance to do it all over again, go back ten or fifteen years and make different choices...would you take it?  That is the opportunity the heroine in Pamela Redmond Satran's novel `YOUNGER' is offered and not only does she take it she revels in it.  When stay-at-home mom of twenty years, Alice, finds herself alone and heartbroken with little prospects for her future she wishes that she could be younger and do something's differently.  With the help of her best friend Maggie that wish comes true in the form of a fabulous make over that makes her look about fifteen years younger than she really is.  Now with her daughter five thousand miles away and her ex-husband shacking up with his dental hygienist, Alice decided to give this new opportunity a try and lands a job at her favorite publishing company and a much, much younger man.<br /><br />While `YOUNGER' was a pleasant and quick read I felt that it lacked some of the excitement that this story could have had.  It seemed to me that Alice should have embraced this opportunity a little bit more than she did.  Instead of completely reverting back to her younger days (which it seemed to me she did) she should have been a bit bolder having the knowledge of a forty-four year old and the body of a twenty-nine year old. I give `YOUNGER' three stars for being a good effort but not great one.	2005-10-02
US	38648243	R3AOKKS5YXLJXP	0060760443	270315209	The Reading Group: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great books & great friends	The Reading Group<br /><br />Next month is the first meeting of my new book club and I can only hope that our club is nearly as fun and filled with warmth, good people and good conversation as was the reading group in this delightful story.  `THE READING GROUP' takes us through a very turbulent year in the life of four females who meet monthly to discuss books as well as life. As one faces becoming a grandmother long before she is ready, another is faced with the difficult challenge of caring for an ailing mother, and one woman has to face the awful truth about her unfaithful husband while yet another has what looks like the perfect marriage on the outside but doesn't feel quite so perfect on the inside.  This book was filled with heartwarming friendships and hardships that everyone can relate to, young and old as well as some great books that you will definitely want to take a look at if you haven't already read them. 4 ½ stars!	2005-09-27
US	38648243	R2ESRZ6KPJPO6D	0807083690	640447547	Kindred	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good introduction to Sci-fi, for someone who doesn't do sci-fi...	I liked this book so much not because I thought that it was relevant to today, because it wasn't, and not because of any social commentary it may have made about slavery or anything quite as noble as that, I liked it because, simply put, it was a good story.  As someone who has never read or been interested in the science fiction genre I found `KINDRED' by Octavia Butler to be right up my ally.  I was a bit skeptical when I picked up `KINDRED' because as I stated I was not interested in reading science fiction but it had come so highly recommended that I decided to try it and now I see what everyone was raving about!  I loved the way Butler transported the reader back and forth from the 20th century to the 18th century so seamlessly and managed to keep me on the edge of my seat wanting to know what was going to happen next.  In fact I liked Butler's work so much that I think I will even read more of her books...despite the fact that they are science fiction.  (don't gang up on me all at once science fiction fans :-)	2005-09-27
US	38648243	RJI48IRBKQ9C4	0060734558	645452526	Match Me If You Can: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Perfect for each other...	I absolutely adored this book.  This is the second book by author Susan Elizabeth Phillips that I have had the pleasure of reading and I have loved them both.  The first `AINT SHE SWEET' was a fun romantic novel that also had somewhat of a serious side while `MATCH ME IF YOU CAN' was all fun!  I found myself reading through the chapters quickly so I could find out what happened next.  Matchmaker Annabelle Granger and Sports agent Heath Champion are a couple that you will be rooting for from the very beginning.  The chemistry is great and the pacing of the story is just right.  SEP gives you exactly what you want when you want it without making anything too easy.  Can't wait for her next one...but in the meantime I think I will brush up on some of her previous works!	2005-09-13
US	38648243	RROIZRTTQYHED	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	4	5	N	N	I know the title of the book is `THE HISTORIAN' but...	...I really could have done without some of the history lesson.  I enjoyed the story of Paul and Helen two strangers whose search for a missing professor brings them together and forces them to trust each other more than they have trusted any other.  They have both heard all of the stories about Dracula and the various vampire lore; however it is not until Professor Bartholomew Rossi's disappearance do they begin to believe that these tales may be more than a work of fiction.  Just days before Professor Rossi's disappearance Paul mysteriously received a strange book that was completely blank except for a woodcut in the center with a very large and menacing dragon with the words Drakula underneath.  When Paul brought this to the attention of his beloved advisor, Professor Rossi, he opened up a can of worms that would not only reopen the professors long dormant curiosity about Dracula but would also ultimately lead to his disappearance.  As Paul and Helen search for him they realize that this search will begin and end with the ever elusive Dracula.<br /><br />Unfortunately as interesting as Paul and Helen's story was, the reader was often sidetracked by lengthy passages that described the history of various people and places that read more like a history text book than the riveting novel that this was supposed to be.  Had this novel been edited down to about half the length is would have been much more effective and intriguing, but with it the way it was, I found myself reading some passages intently while others I barely skimmed over.  Overall the book wasn't bad; however, I cannot see myself actually recommending such a sometimes tedious book to anyone who is not up for the challenge of sticking with it through the duration.	2005-09-13
US	38648243	R8EN6OHTE1ONN	0345468589	799848414	The Botox Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Botox, bikinis and...PTA meetings??	I got this book as a freebie in a goodie bag and although I'd never really had any interest in reading it, I figured no book is better than a free book.  So I decided to give it a whirl and plucked it out of my \\"to read\\" pile and boy am I glad that I did!  The writing team of Lynn Schnurnberger and Janice Kaplan have delighted us with a uproarious novel about the difference between growing older and getting better as two friends struggle to keep up while holding on to what they treasure most, their family and their friendship.<br /><br />`THE BOTOX DIARIES' was funnier than I imagined and kept me reading into the wee hours of the morning trying not to laugh so hard that I would wake my husband!  I now see why this was last summers \\"it\\" book and can't wait to read `MINE ARE SPECTACULAR' by this amazing writing team!	2005-08-09
US	38648243	R34BSVXV0BN2RL	0373895232	555803658	Hand-Me-Down (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fun and engaging!	Anne the youngest of three sisters who feels perpetually over shadowed by Charlotte her supermodel older sister as well as sister Emily the critically acclaimed author, is a quirky twenty-nine year old who is having a hard time finding her niche in life.  Her sisters have found insurmountable success at extremely young ages and Anne feels complacent in just being the average Olsen sister.  She floats from job to job and from man to man without much thought of the future.  Until she reunites with her old crush Ian who just happens to be her sister Charlotte's first love.  Now that Ian is back in her life anything seems possible however is she ready to deal with Charlotte's sloppy seconds?<br /><br />The story of Anne, Ian and her two sisters took a while to peek my interest, however, as I read on the story's charm took effect and from that point on I found it hard to put down.  Unfortunately that happened about a hundred pages too late which is why I only gave this book 3 ½ stars, however I do recommend this book as a light and fun summer read, it will not disappoint.	2005-08-09
US	38648243	R1XWEO88AKUJYJ	0385338686	188590881	The Undomestic Goddess	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Sophie Kinsella is quickly inching her way up to my favorite chick-lit author...	I have loved everyone of the books in Kinsella's `SHOPAHOLIC' series and I equally enjoyed her first stand alone novel ` CAN YOU KEEP A SECRET' now Kinsella brings us her second stand alone and sixth novel to date and I absolutely adored this one as much as I did the others.  I pre-ordered the `UNDOMESTIC GODDESS', something that I rarely do (okay so I only pre-ordered it two days before it was released but that is beside the point), because I couldn't wait to get my hands on a copy.  I tore into it as soon as it arrived and didn't want to put it down!  Sophie Kinsella writes with an ease that is difficult to match and a wit that literally keeps you laughing out loud.<br /><br />The plot to this novel is one that particularly intrigued me; a high powered and highly stressed lawyer for one of the top law firms in London makes a huge mistake that costs her company millions.  Now that she has discovered the blunder rather than stick around to face the music she flees to the English countryside where, under false pretenses, she gets a job as a housekeeper.  As someone who's never cooked a meal in her life nor cleaned a toilet let alone an entire house she enlists the help of the sexy grounds keeper and his mother to turn her from an Undomestic Goddess to a domestic treasure that this family cannot live without.<br /><br />The `UNDOMESTIC GODDESS' had me laughing harder than I have laughed since...well, since I read Kinsella's last book.  I highly recommended this book to anyone who is a fan of Kinsella's work and if you have never read anything by her the `UNDOMESTIC GODDESS' is as good a place to start as any.	2005-07-29
US	38648243	R29HTHI1SCJR64	031225234X	312924571	Name Dropping	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Name Dropping	When Nancy Stern journalist to the stars moves into the penthouse of Nancy Stern pre-school teacher extrodinaire's apartment building there is obviously a lot of confusion.  Many mixed up packages, phone calls, deliveries and mail.  However the biggest mix-up of all is when Nancy Stern journalist to the stars is found murdered in her apartment.  It soon becomes clear that the intended victim, however, was the other Nancy Stern.  Now the other Nancy must try to foil a group of jewel thieves connected to one of her pre-school students while trying to keep herself out of harms way.<br /><br />Maybe I am just not a huge Jane Heller fanatic but I did not fall in love with this book as many other reviewers have.  While Heller does have a breezy style of writing this book was a little too cutesy for my taste.  In a mystery novel, even a chick-lit mystery there should be some semblance of credibility to it and this novel had little to none.  However, on the bright side Heller's style makes her books quick and easy to read, good for a lazy day of lounging poolside.	2005-07-29
US	38648243	RLI7KCTPE30UA	0743254880	686805874	Entombed (Alexandra Cooper)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A gripping suspnce novel	It is probably hard to believe that as someone who often enjoys a good mystery/suspense novel that this is the first novel by former DA Linda Fairstein that I have read. Fortunately I was not at all disappointed with this engrossing novel.  Entombed features attorney Alexandra Cooper who is the heroine in all of Fairstein's novels to date, yet in this tale while trying to find a serial rapist who has eluded her partner Mike Chapman and herself for years Alex also finds herself trying to find a murderer who quite obviously was trying to frame this serial rapist.  Now finding this copycat has become a priority for Alex as she learns of its connection to a murder committed twenty-five years ago in the former home of poet Edgar Allen Poe.  The investigation leads Alex and the detectives to a group of Poe enthusiasts known as the Raven Society who seem to have many secrets that they do not wish to have unearthed.<br /><br />This novel takes many twists and turns as Alex searches not only for a murderer but a serial rapist as well.  However, the chemistry between Alex and detective Chapman, as well as the slight cliffhanger between the two, is what will keep me reading more of these Alex Cooper novels as well as searching out Fairstein's previous novels!	2005-07-25
US	38648243	R1WWBMMG3ENRN6	0060842423	807089514	Confessions of a Video Vixen	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Everyone else was reading it so I figured...why not?	I had heard all about this book on the radio and television but had no real desire to read it but after a friend lent it to my husband and he read it in one sitting I decided to see what all the hype was about and I was hooked after the first page.  Don't get me wrong this was not necessarily what I would call a good book, in fact it was difficult for me to decide how many stars to give it because it was more like reading a gossip magazine than a book and therefore hard to judge on the usual 5 star rating system.  However, I settled on three stars because though it was horribly written and I felt a little bit dumber for having read it...it was a page turner, girl.  Every time I wanted to put it down Kerrine Steffans aka Superhead talked of something more scandalous than the last scandalous thing she did and it kept you wanting to read more!  Sure had she not be talking about people we know of this book would have been a bore but that is the thing about tell alls, they are not to be confused with any type of literature.<br /><br />While `CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN' did hold my interest for a day, I didn't really walk away knowing a whole lot more about the music industry or Hollywood or its inhabitants.  Nor did I feel as though this book should serve as a warning to young girls headed down the same path that Kerrine went down, as she suggests was her purpose for writing it in the introduction.  Kerrine's story did very little to deter like minded young girls from this life style other than to warn them of the hazards of drug use.  She tended to glamorize everything else by telling of how easily everything came to her (supposedly)  and what great people all of these men who treated her like dirt actually were.  Moreover since her lifestyle seems to have changed only minimally I didn't walk away from reading this with a feeling of \\"oh well at least everything worked out for her in the end\\".  She seems very content to be doing the same things but on \\"her terms\\".  Overall \\"CONFESSIONS' was a quick read best left to those mature enough to already know that all that glitters....Overall \\"CONFESSIONS' was a quick read best left to those mature enough to already know that all that glitters.... <br />	2005-07-19
US	38648243	R27ITJP5Y97UO1	0312313829	265469425	The Dirty Girls Social Club: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Suuuucias!!	After having this book on my wish list for-ev-ah I finally decided to order it after reading Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez's short story in `GIRLS NIGHT IN' and loving it.  So I anxiously awaited the delivery of my copy of `DIRTY GIRLS SOCIAL CLUB' and tore into it the day that I got it and am happy to say that I thoroughly enjoyed it and do hope that they do turn this book about six Latina's in Boston who have been friends since college in to a movie as has been reported!  Call me a sucker for a happy ending (don't worry there are no spoilers here) but it did not bother me in the least how neatly everything was tied up for these six young women.  I do not read chick-lit for any other purpose than to laugh and to have that warm and fuzzy feeling when I am finished and that is exactly what this book gave me.  Valdes-Rodriguez is a bright and funny new author with a lot of promise and I look forward to reading more of her books in the future, 4 ½ stars!	2005-07-19
US	38648243	R7HOG2RU4ZMPW	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Cute...	...is the perfect word to describe this humorous parody about a young woman who wakes up after a fatal car accident to find herself queen of all vampires.  I cannot say that this was exactly a laugh riot, however, the story was funny, the main character was quirky (to say the least) and the book was short and read very quickly.  I particularly enjoyed the characters of veteran bloodsuckers Eric Sinclair and Tina who may have been the only two rational thinking and mature characters in the book.  The main character of Betsy was, as many of the other reviewer have stated, extremely immature.  Her frequent rants and constant interruption of everyone who attempted to say anything to her became rather annoying as the story went on but her wisecracking comebacks were often clever and did cause me to chuckle from time to time.  The romance between Betsy and Eric Sinclair however, was somewhat of a mystery to me because I couldn't figure out what this cool and charismatic vampire saw in Betsy.  But I am looking forward to solving this mystery in the next installment of this cute and clever series.  I just hope that the character of Betsy grows up a little in `UNDEAD AND UNEMPLOYED'. 3 ½ Stars!	2005-07-05
US	38648243	R1D7C1OXFW3OY	0373250711	536054337	Monkey Business	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Like Sarah's style...	`MONKEY BUSINESS' is the second book by Sarah Mylnowski that I have read, the first being `AS SEEN ON TV', and while I didn't love `AS SEEN ON TV' I did really enjoy her writing style.  Now her fourth novel, `MONKEY BUSINESS' brings that same style to the table but with what is in my opinion a better story line and more likeable characters.<br /><br />In her fourth novel Sarah takes us to the competitive world of a top ten business school with four very distinct and interesting characters:<br /><br />First you have Kimmy who has no idea how she even got accepted to this prestigious business school much less what she is doing there.  But one thing she knows for sure is that with the ratio of men to women she should definitely be able to snag a husband.<br /><br />Then there's Jamie the one with the natural knack for all that is business, so why bother buying the books?  Far from the ladies man, funny man Jamie never misses an opportunity to flirt with the ladies even if he only gets laughed at in return.<br /><br />Next is Russ the former geek turned hottie with the loyal girlfriend back home.  A few years ago he would have never dreamed of getting the attention of one of the schools most attractive women but now that he's got it what's a guy to do?  Oh man!<br /><br />And last but not least there is Layla, miss perfect.  Layla has always prided herself on being as close to perfect as humanly possible, or so she thought.  But now with a group of new friends she is beginning to see that perfection is not all that it is cut out to be.<br /><br />I said in my review of `AS SEEN ON TV' that I was not giving up on Mylnowski yet and I am sure glad that I didn't.  `MONKEY BUSINESS' had me looking forward to putting my son to bed so that I could curl up with it and stay up way past my own bedtime! =)	2005-06-17
US	38648243	R5601DOU3BP76	0312323859	351920537	Something Blue	Books	5	9	9	N	N	If you read `SOMETHING BORROWED' this is an absolute must...	...And if you didn't run out and purchase both of these amazing books!!  I thoroughly enjoyed Emily Giffin's debut novel `SOMEHTING BORROWED' where Rachel, who always played second fiddle to her beautiful, outgoing (self-centered & narcissistic) best friend Darcy Rhone, happened to find the love of her life in Darcy's fianc&eacute;. Giffin took this taboo subject and put a witty and engrossing spin on it without making light of the situation.  However, I only gave that book four stars because of what I felt were loose ends.  I wanted to know what happened to Darcy after she found out about her best-friend and fianc&eacute;s betrayal as well as how the secondary characters reacted to the news.  Well, I had no idea that Giffin intended to do one better than just tying up a few loose ends with an extra chapter or two at the end of `SOMETHING BORROWED'.  Instead she gave fans of the first book this gem of a novel that picked up perfectly where the other left off.<br /><br />`SOMETHING BLUE' begins right after Darcy discovers Rachel and Dex's affair and although she too has had an affair and now finds herself pregnant as a result, she is determined to make the lives of everyone who she feels had wronged her miserable.  As one of the other reviewers stated Giffin does not change the character of Darcy a bit, she is still as self-centered and narcissistic as ever, however, now she has another life to worry about, yet cant seem to quite get that through her head.  But when she decides to move to London with long time friend Ethan she is forced to take a closer look at the person she is and determine what kind of person and mother she wants to become.<br /><br />Giffin really outdid herself with `SOMETHING BLUE', which stands to make `SOMTHIGN BORROWED' even better.  I highly recommend buying both of these wonderful books together and reading them back-to-back, you will not be disappointed!  A great second novel by a very talented and creative new author!!	2005-06-09
US	38648243	R33YX3DXSEZPLC	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An enjoyable,  quick and easy read...	Let me start off by saying that this book is not nearly as complicated as the above synopsis makes it sound.  'BOY MEETS GIRL' is told in a series of e-mails, voice mails and hand written notes.  It is about Kate McKenzie a woman who loves her job but hates her boss nicknamed, the T.O.D. (Tyrannical Office Despot) by she and her best friend Jen.  However, when the T.O.D. forces Kate to fire one of the most beloved members of the food service staff Kate feels she needs to take a stand, but before she gets a chance she is hit with a wrongful termination lawsuit.  Now Kate must try to see that justice is served all while trying to hold on to her job and impress the handsome lawyer that was assigned to her case.<br /><br />I found `BOY MEETS GIRL' to be laugh out loud funny and quick to read (perfect for a long plane ride), however the e-mail format made it a little harder for me to get into the story.  I felt as though I didn't get to know enough about the characters and while I did enjoy `BOY MEETS GIRL' I do not think that I would want to read another book in this format, 3 ½ stars.	2005-06-05
US	38648243	RDSPBDDK72HRU	1590860705	255226197	The Short Forever (Stone Barrington)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fun, sexy series...	I was first introduced to Stone Barrington, the hero who always gets the lady and his man in `COLD PARADISE'. I started in the middle of the series because the premise of that particular book interested me but once I finished, I was hooked on the series.  Stone Barrington is a 007 type of agent minus the flashy equipment, but he is every bit as much the ladies man.  In `THE SHORT FOREVER' Stone is hired to watch over the niece of John Bartholomew, a very rich and very influential man who supplies Stone with only the best while under his employ, a room at the best hotel in London and an unlimited supply of cash.  However, Stone soon finds out that there is more to this case than meets the eye and it turns out that Bartholomew may not be who he says he is.  Now with English federal agents on his tale he must try to piece this case together while trying to stay on the good side of one agent in particular, the beautiful and mysterious Carpenter.<br /><br />The Stone Barrington books are perfect summer reads, great for a relaxing day at the beach.  If you are looking for something with a little intrigue, a little sex and a lot of glitz and glamour to let your imagination run wild this is the series for you.	2005-05-31
US	38648243	R6BZXD5A0R0AX	0373250746	88811	Girls Night In	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Girl's Night In	I am not a huge fan of short story collections but I decided to pick up `GIRLS NIGHT IN' because some of the stories were penned by some of my favorite authors in the chick-lit genre and some by authors that I have never read but wanted to.  Unfortunately, I cannot say that I was impressed by this collection, out of the twenty-one stories I can honestly only say that I liked seven, the rest were either mediocre, left something to be desired, or were just bad.  However, on a positive note, out of the seven stories that I did like five of the authors were ones whose books I've never read. Therefore, I did accomplish the goal of discovering new authors to put into my rotation.<br /><br />My seven favorites, in no particular order, were:<br /><br />`THE TRUTH IS OUT THERE' by Marian Keys<br />`ACTING STRANGELY' by Chris Manby<br />`KNOW IT ALL' by Sarah Mylnowski<br />`CAT LADY' by Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez<br />`DON'T YOU KNOW WHO I AM' by Adele Lang<br />`PARTY PLANNER' by Meg Cabbot<br />`TRAVELING LIGHT' by Carole Matthews<br /><br />So while I cannot say that I particularly enjoyed this book in its entirety, I do have the pleasure of walking away excited to read more from the seven aforementioned authors.	2005-05-31
US	38648243	RPWS02KWGJJFC	045121174X	47967746	Some Like it Lethal (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nora Blackbird is back on the case...	...In the best Blackbird sisters mystery yet!  In `SOME LIKE IT LETHAL' Nora is forced to use her vast social connections and handy newspaper credentials to investigate a murder that hits close to home.  When Rush Strawcutter, husband to the heir of the Strawcutter dog food fortune, is found murdered Nora's sister Emma is the prime suspect.  Now Nora must figure out who the real killer is and how it is connected to a plot to blackmail many of Philadelphia's most prominent figures...including herself.<br /><br />Not only does Nora have to fend off a smarmy blackmailer and try to figure out how to get her sister, who has fled the police with the aid of Michael Abruzzo (Nora's boyfriend), off the hook, but since sister Libby has decided to become a goddess after the birth of her fifth child she also has to watch over her five unruly children.  If all of this weren't enough Nora is also worried about the money laundering charges that could be brought against Michael!  Needless to say Nora experiences quite a few fainting spells in this third installment of the series. This series keeps getting better with each installment and I cannot wait to get my hands on the fourth `CROSS YOUR HEART AND HOPE TO DIE' where it seems Kitty will finally get her just deserts.  4 ½ stars for the third book in this amusing series!	2005-05-16
US	38648243	R33V4D04EKA18D	0373250797	162561101	The Pact (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Rachel Benjamin, a strong and intelligent heroin!	Rachel Benjamin is dreading watching her best friend Emma walk down the aisle with the vile and despicable Richard but despite the pact that she and her friends made long ago there is nothing that she can do to stop it.  You see, years ago Rachel and her four friends made a pact to always let their girlfriends know if the person they are dating is...well, shall we say for lack of more appropriate wording, \\"wrong for them\\".  And if the girlfriend in question does not heed their warnings they are to \\"take matters into their own hands\\".  However, when Rachel finds Richard's corpse floating face down in Emma's family pool the morning of the impending nuptials, she cannot help but to wonder if one of her friends may have taken their little agreement too far.<br /><br />Aside from the intriguing plot, one of the things that I enjoyed most about this lighthearted mystery was its strong and intelligent cast of characters.  All of the women were smart and very successful and the men were all confident with out being overly aggressive.  Which in turn makes it difficult for you to speculate on who could have committed such a crime when you are rooting for everyone to walk away from the incident with little to no repercussions. I thought that `THE PACT' was a smart, funny and well-written mystery that never took itself too seriously.  I hope to see more of Rachel Benjamin and friends in the future, 4 ½ stars!!<br /><br />Sidebar, for all of the reviewers who have commented on how conveniently diverse and multi-cultured the cast was, I hate to burst your bubble, but throwing in one Latina and women with a bunch of different hair colors does not a diverse cast make. :-)	2005-05-11
US	38648243	R2PJU42ULAT4FW	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	2	4	N	N	More Poignant today than ever	I was very excited to begin reading this book.  I loved the premise and thought that it would be interesting, but as I began reading I was looking for answers that Atwood didn't seem to want to provide. I wanted to know how this society where women were allowed no freedoms and were torn from their families and friends came about.  How America, once the land of the free became the land of the oppressed.  Call me impatient but as I read every chapter that left these questions unanswered the more bored I grew with this book.  Until Atwood began to slowly reveal the events that led up to the existence of such a society and it was almost like a punch in the stomach when she did.  It is impossible not to compare the events in this book with the events of the last few years and how our world is slowly changing, not necessarily in this direction, but it definitely makes you see how anything is possible.<br /><br />I was only seven years old when this book was first published so I am not sure if Atwood was that prophetic or if the direction that this country was headed in was clear even then.  I am sure the case is true more of the latter than the former.  If you haven't read this book already I definitely suggest that you order a copy, it is worth the read.  Personally I plan to pass my copy on to all of my friends and anyone else who may want to read it.  This may be a hard title to find at your local bookstore but order it if need be, it is worth it!	2005-04-29
US	38648243	RUTFL9ILSL90K	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Winner from Coben	I think that it is safe to say that Harlan Coben is one of the best suspense writers of our time, and obviously as a winner of the Edgar, Shamus and Anthony awards I am not the only one who thinks so.  In his latest novel `THE INNOCENT' we are introduced to Matthew Hunter a man who, because of being in the wrong place at the wrong time, spent four years of his life in a maximum-security prison for murder.  Nine years later he is happily married to a beautiful woman named Olivia and they are expecting their first child.  Finally Matt is beginning to let go of his past and look forward to his future with Olivia until he receives pictures on his camera phone that are meant to lead him to believe that his wife is having an affair.  But as we know with any book written by Coben things aren't always what they seem.  As Matt searches for clues as to why these pictures of his wife in a hotel room with another man were sent to him his life begins to spiral out of control and his past mistakes as well as the mistakes of others come back to haunt him.  Because once you are an ex-con no one ever looks at you the same and as the body count begins to rise all suspicions are directed toward one Matthew Hunter.<br /><br />`THE INNOCENT' is non-stop action and will have you turning the pages so quickly your fingers will burn.  Every character is strong and well developed and the story is thoroughly engrossing.  So you may be wondering why with all of this high praise did I only give it 4 stars?  Well, while I knew to expect Coben's signature twist at the end, I thought that maybe there was just one twist to many in this ending. Just as in Coben's previous thriller `JUST ONE LOOK' I thought that the ending got a little complicated, but overall I loved this book just as I do all books Harlan Coben.  I am sure that you will not be disappointed with this latest by Coben whether you are a long time fan or a first time reader, 4 ½ stars!	2005-04-26
US	38648243	R1J4NQ72EF4XRS	0452286123	149920312	Summer in the City	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A cute book	I loved Robyn Sisman's `JUST FRIENDS', thought `WEEKEND IN PARIS' was just okay and now found the newly re-released `SUMMER IN THE CITY' to be somewhere in between the two.  I found the story of straight-laced Lloyd Rockwell and the free spirited Suze Wilding swapping jobs and lives for a summer to be quite charming.  I loved the vivid descriptions Sisman gave of New York and London and how different life was for Lloyd and Suze living in a strange city as well as a stranger's apartment.  My only wish for this book would have been that Sisman focus less on the job and more on the budding romance between Lloyd and Suze.  I began to look forward to the phone exchanges between Lloyd and Suze, which in my opinion were too few and far between.  Overall I did enjoy `SUMMER IN THE CITY' but `JUST FRIENDS' still remains Sisman's standout novel, 3 ½ stars.	2005-04-19
US	38648243	R1DKM21HW0CSSG	0375415475	615727843	Family History	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Loved it!	Shapiro could have tacked on another hundred or so pages more to this heartfelt and emotional novel and I would have eaten those up too!  Shapiro's prose is such that it will keep you turning the pages and wanting more.  It is easy to read, not overly done and yet properly captures every emotion that this family experiences.<br /><br />Rachel Jensen thought she had the perfect life, complete with the perfect marriage, two beautiful children, and a wonderful home.  All things that Rachel believed could not be broken until her life began to slowly spiral out of her control.  Her troubled daughter is more than Rachel or her husband Ned know how to handle, due to a tragic accident their infant son is not developing as quickly as other children his age and a terrible lie places a seed of doubt in her marriage that could potentially damage it irrevocably.<br /><br />I loved the way that Shapiro took us through the story bit by bit revealing everything slowly.  Sometimes in flashbacks and at other times showing the reader what state this sequence of events has left this family in present day.  Shapiro is an eloquent storyteller and I will definitely be seeking out more of her works.	2005-04-19
US	38648243	R2H81GSA8Y3SJJ	0758206682	249512530	The Bane Affair	Books	3	6	7	N	N	ALIAS this book is not, however....	I bought this book because the premise reminded me of something I would see on an episode of Alias, one of my favorite television shows.  What I did not realize, being that I am not familiar with any of Kent's previous works, was that while Alison Kent is trying to do something different here by writing a novel about spies, she is first and foremost a romance writer. I am not a huge fan of such graphic romances (it is just not my taste) however, despite that I did enjoy the story of sexy spy Christian Bane and the strong willed Natasha Gaudet.  The beginning of the book was pure romance so it took me a while to get into it but once it got going I found it hard to put down.  This is definitely the beginning of a very interesting series, 3 ½ Stars!	2005-04-04
US	38648243	R2U2879BVSX393	0670034045	46714252	The Other Woman	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Jane Green's all grown up.  But is that a good thing?	Long gone are the single girl adventures of trying to find Mr. Right or at the very least Mr. Right-now.  Green's characters of late have traded in girl's nights out for early nights in front of the television.  No longer are they worried about first dates, changing diapers has taken their place.  And while I can relate to all of that and may even enjoy reading about a life similar to my own by another author I have to admit that I miss the Jane Green of old.  When I pick up a book by Green I want to laugh out loud at the antics of the single girl, as no one writes about single life in London better and while `THE OTHER WOMAN' was enjoyable I did not laugh out loud once.<br /><br />When Ellie Black turns to Ellie Cooper she thinks that she has gotten everything she's ever dreamed of.  The wonderful and doting husband and the family she always wanted but never had.  Ever since Ellie's mother died when she was thirteen she has always yearned for a mother figure in her life and when she meets Dan's mother Linda she is sure that Linda will be it.  However, slowly but surely Linda begins to immerse herself in all aspects of Ellie's life which only serves to push Ellie away.  Soon after the birth on Ellie and Dan's first child Linda becomes more than Ellie can bear and rather than either of these women being mature enough to take a step back from the situation and maybe even try to talk it out Linda just becomes more overbearing and Ellie becomes a horror to both Linda and her husband Dan.  From here the book takes various turns, a tragic accident, a separation, an affair and the loss of some friendships and a rekindling of others.<br /><br />Green's last two books have not quite hit the mark for me.  However, I do still enjoy her writing style, which is always fun and easy to read. And while I found `THE OTHER WOMAN' to be a bit predictable and boring at parts I did enjoy how acurately Green portrayed Ellie's transition from the single career driven woman to the wife and mother. Overall I give `THE OTHER WOMAN' 3 ½ stars.e and mother. Overall I give `THE OTHER WOMAN' 3  stars. <br /> <br />	2005-03-26
US	38648243	R18JRZWK5YYKUU	0385338090	955347785	Shopaholic & Sister (Shopaholic Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Becky Bloomwood, Er..I mean Becky Brandon fans will love it!	This fourth installment in the 'SHOPAHOLIC' series was, as usual, laugh out loud funny and will keep you wanting more of that ever lovable Becky Bloomwood Brandon!  All of the characters you have grown to love are back in this one with a couple of new equally off the wall characters sprinkled in.<br /><br />When Becky and Luke return home from their ten-month long honeymoon around the world Becky expects nothing to have changed.  However, quite to her surprise her parents seem to be a bit distracted, her best friend Suze has found a new best friend and Luke has gone right back to his old work obsessed self.  So saying that Becky's homecoming was not exactly what she expected would be an understatement.  But when Becky's parents inform her that she has a long-lost sister by the name of Jess, Becky is through the roof!  This is the answer to all of her problems she now has a soul mate who will never let her down.  Someone who will be there for her through thick and thin, someone to eat peppermint creams, watch chick flicks and, of course, shop with.  But when she meets her sister Jess she turns out to be the exact opposite of Becky, she hates shopping, has no overdraft and knows how to stretch a dollar until it can be stretched no more.  Needles to say that Becky and Jess have a hard time connecting.  And after a big blow up she and Jess decide that they are just too different and to go their separate ways.  However when Becky feels her marriage is in trouble she knows that Jess is the only one who can help her.<br /><br />When Becky goes to Jess' hometown of Scully the real fun begins.  We are introduced to a host of new characters. And Becky manages to get herself into more trouble than ever and finds her true passion...frugality?!<br /><br />I am such a huge fan of this series!  And I love it that Kinsella left us die hard fans with an opening for a fifth `SHOPAHOLIC' book...I will be pre-ordering that one!	2005-03-26
US	38648243	R1ANPGI70VA2AT	0743477669	462137823	Dinner for Two	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Dinner for Two	On the heels of finishing `MR. COMMITMENT' also by Mike Gayle I rushed out to buy one of his other critically acclaimed novels with high hopes of it being equal to or better than `MR. COMMITMENT'.  Having read some of the reviews on Amazon I settled on `DINNER FOR TWO' which had an overall five star rating, and while I did enjoy it very much it was not quite up to the standard set by the previous novel.  I still felt the same freshness when reading `DINNER FOR TWO' since it too is written from the male perspective which Gayle seems to be right on the money with, however, my problem with this book was that the ending seemed to be a little rushed.  I feel as though, especially in a situation as complex as the one in this book, more than two pages is needed to wrap up the story.<br /><br />Dave Harding always knew he wanted a family but being that his wife Izzy was never quite ready he knew that he loved her enough to wait.  But when Izzy calls him one day and informs him that she is \\"late\\" he is through the roof.  Although they try to contain their excitement until later in the pregnancy they cannot help but discuss baby names and imagine what their future is going to be like.  That is until Izzy miscarries. Now their world is turned upside-down and much to Dave's chagrin Izzy decides that she cannot take that pain again and wants to hold off on trying again...indefinitely.  Dave reigns in his now overwhelming desire to be a father in respect for his wife's feelings but when he receives a letter from a young girl claiming that he is her biological father he cant help but to want it to be true.  As he grows closer to this beautiful thirteen-year-old girl the gap between he and Izzy grows as well and while he loves his wife more than anything he cannot deny his daughter whom he as grown to love just as much.  Trying to make up for lost time Dave and his daughter keep their relationship a secret until it becomes a burden and everyone they love can no longer be kept in the dark.<br /><br />`DINNER FOR TWO' was funny in parts and touching in others.  Mike Gayle definitely has a flare for giving insight to the various aspects of the male mind and had the ending been a little fuller this would have easily been another five star book.the dark. <br /> <br />`DINNER FOR TWO' was funny in parts and touching in others.  Mike Gayle definitely has a flare for giving insight to the various aspects of the male mind and had the ending been a little fuller this would have easily been another five star book. <br />	2005-03-09
US	38648243	R1QZ2DMITB384T	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Don't judge a book by its cover?	I did.  I bought Curtis Sittenfeld's `PREP' without really knowing anything about it because...well, I liked the cover.  Luckily the inside was even better than the outside.<br /><br /> I loved the story of the extremely shy and overly conscious Lee Fiora mainly because it was so real.  Many people who believed that Lee was a snob or who had hoped that in her four years at Ault that she would have evolved into some sort of social butterfly must not have ever been to high school, because unfortunately, things don't usually work out that way in real life.  I can't honestly say that I was ever really shy but I was, as most teenagers are, very self-conscious in high school and being less than ten years out of it I can still recall feeling like everything you did was being observed by everyone.  My guess is that most teenagers...yes, even the popular ones feel this way much of the time.  Which is why I think that many people will relate to Sittenfelds `PREP'.  Lee's story is told after the fact, through her eyes as an adult, which gives the book even more credibility and likeability because she is able to be somewhat nostalgic for those days while at the same time realizing her mistakes.<br /><br />`PREP' takes us through fourteen-year-old Lee Fiora's first days at Ault School, an upper class Massachusetts boarding school, all the way up until her graduation day.  Lee is one of the few non-minorities at Ault on scholarship, which only serves to intensify her already existing insecurities.  Unfortunately, the thing that Lee wants most is also the thing that she is most afraid of and that is being noticed.  She therefore takes extreme measures to ensure that she goes unnoticed for as long as possible.  She purposely remains friendless for as long as she can until her friendlessness proves to be too noticeable. She also does not participate in any social activities whatsoever because, well, she has no idea what to do in a group setting. Lee eventually becomes so afraid of anything happening in her life good or bad that she never actually lives it, she just becomes and observer and lets others take charge. I felt that Sittenfled accurately portrayed Lee's struggle with her family, the love and sometimes anger she felt for her best friend when she sensed that they were drifting apart and her first relationship with a boy and how often times they can be very one-sided. I feel that this book could serve well as a teenager's guide of what not to do in high school.  Lee tends to be a little on the severe side in regards to her self-consciousness where sometimes you just want to scream at the book \\"get over it!\\"  But for those of us who have already lived through it, you will more than likely feel some small kinship with Lee.<br /><br />This is one book that I truly did not want to end.  I wanted to read more about Lee Fiora, her life after Ault and even her life in present day.  I cannot wait to see what Sittenfeld's follow up to this one will be but I guarantee you I will be amongst the first to purchase it!d of anything happening in her life good or bad that she never actually lives it, she just becomes and observer and lets others take charge. I felt that Sittenfled accurately portrayed Lee's struggle with her family, the love and sometimes anger she felt for her best friend when she sensed that they were drifting apart and her first relationship with a boy and how often times they can be very one-sided. I feel that this book could serve well as a teenager's guide of what not to do in high school.  Lee tends to be a little on the severe side in regards to her self-consciousness where sometimes you just want to scream at the book \\"get over it!\\"  But for those of us who have already lived through it, you will more than likely feel some small kinship with Lee.  <br /> <br />This is one book that I truly did not want to end.  I wanted to read more about Lee Fiora, her life after Ault and even her life in present day.  I cannot wait to see what Sittenfeld's follow up to this one will be but I guarantee you I will be amongst the first to purchase it! <br />	2005-03-03
US	38648243	R22G41GYMGL1NP	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Things aren't always what they seem...	I am not a huge James Patterson fan, which is not to say that I haven't enjoyed the books of his that I have read but I am not one to rush out to buy his latest book.  However, a commercial for his newest novel `HONEYMOON' piqued my interest, so when I noticed that it was on sale at my local bookstore I decided to take a chance and purchase it.  I am pleased that I did, `HONEYMOON' is a fast paced thriller that will keep you rushing through the pages to find out what happens next.  I quickly finished this book in two days, as there was never a dull moment.<br /><br />It is established early on that Nora Sinclair is a cold-blooded killer.  She kills for money, and while often times she may have an attack of conscious it never stops her from attaining her ultimate goal.  However, Nora's killing spree has inadvertently come to the attention of the FBI and agent John O'Hara is assigned to find out what secrets Ms. Sinclair is hiding and what her connection is to another case that he is investigating.  Unfortunately for John Nora's charm and captivatingly good looks are too much for him to resist and he finds himself falling for her.  He knows that he is playing a dangerous game but now he can't help but to hope for her innocence.  As his investigation heats up so does his relationship with Nora and all the while his fathers motto keeps replaying itself in his head \\"things aren't always what they seem\\".<br /><br />In the end I felt that there were a few loose ends that could have been better tied up such as Nora's relationship with her mother a character that I was expecting and looking forward to learning a lot more about and her friends Elaine and Allison whose characters either should have been elaborated upon or completely done away with. It would have also been nice if Patterson had delved a little deeper into Nora's childhood and maybe made the connection between what her mother did and Nora's current crimes. But overall `HONEYMOON' was a good fast paced thriller perfect for a lazy day and I intend to pass my copy along so that others may enjoy it as much as I did!ller perfect for a lazy day and I intend to pass my copy along so that others may enjoy it as much as I did! <br /> <br />	2005-02-22
US	38648243	R3PA294HY4Y7B0	0385501005	499767451	Mr. Commitment	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perfect!	That is the first word that came to my mind as I finished Mike Gayle's `MR. COMMITMENT'.  I never imagined that I would describe a chick-lit novel written by a man as being \\"perfect\\" but `MR. COMMITMENT' truly was just that.  Mike Gayle did not fall short in any aspects of this book, the plot was well though out, it was not totally predictable, the characters were all well developed and he did not rush the ending, the book made me laugh out loud at times and brought a tear to my eyes at others.  All of these things together, in my opinion, make for an ideal book, one that you just don't want to end.<br /><br />`MR. COMMITMENT' gives the reader a hilarious yet touching view of relationships from the male perspective.  The story of comedian Ben Duffy begins when his girlfriend of four years Mel wants to take their relationship to the next level and get married.  They are twenty-eight years old and know each other inside and out so in her opinion marriage is the next logical step.  However, marriage is the furthest thing from Duffy's mind.  He loves Mel more than anything in the world but he doesn't fee that he can commit to anything more that two weeks together at a vacation resort.  So when Mel brings up marriage Duffy wants to be able to commit and knows that it is indeed time but just cant bring himself to make a lifelong commitment to Mel.  So they decide to go their separate ways after which Duffy soon realizes that his fear of commitment may have cost him the love of his life.<br /><br />I didn't expect to love this book as much as I did but Ben Duffy's journey into the land of adulthood was completely absorbing and getting the story from a male perspective was a refreshing way to shake up the genre a little bit.  Mike Gayle is definitely giving chick-lit icons such as Ms. Green and Ms. Fielding a run for their money!  Well done Mr. Gayle!	2005-02-13
US	38648243	R1Y3IMEH4ZRT3R	1582345082	570121918	The Line of Beauty	Books	3	9	12	N	N	I wanted to love this book	Not only because it won the Booker award but also because of the praise that `LINE OF BEAUTY' generated from all sources.  However, as much as I wanted to love it and get into it, I found the first 300 or so pages to be extremely tedious and boring. I am all for a novel that stretches the mind by using beautiful prose and Alan Holinghurst does indeed have a flare for writing sparklingly beautiful prose; but in `THE LINE OF BEAUTY' he does so at the expense of the story.  In my opinion there was nothing interesting about this book except the writing style until the very last chapters where things began to pick up and the story finally began to take shape.  I am very glad that I took the time to actually finish this book because the last sections almost made it a worthwhile read and did evoke some feelings from me for the main character Nick, despite the fact that in my opinion he was a completely unlikable and dense character throughout the entire book.  Unfortunately as good as the last chapters of the book may have been it was not enough to make me recommend `THE LINE OF BEAUTY' to my friends and family, something I often do when I stumble upon a good book.  In my opinion this was at best a mediocre effort by Hollinghurst.	2005-02-13
US	38648243	R3OI7I73EX624S	0312288492	523006383	Best Enemies (Heller, Jane)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	3.5	Jane Heller wrote an easy to read, fun and funny tale of two ex-best friends Amy and Tara whose friendship came to an end when Tara the \\"prom queen\\" slept with Amy the \\"second fiddle\\" `s fianc&eacute; just two weeks before the blessed event. Quite obviously Amy and Tara haven't spoken since.  But Amy has heard about Tara's beautiful and secluded Hawaiian wedding to Stuart her ex-fianc&eacute;, she has also heard all about the beautiful long island mansion that she and Stuart share, their frequent spur of the moment trips and their wonderfully blissful existence, blah, blah, blah!!  But what Amy hadn't heard was that Tara has written a book on how to live a Simply Beautiful existence, which the publishing company that Amy works for has agreed to publish, and guess who is in charge of promoting it?  You guessed it, Amy!<br /><br />Amy has been pretty pleased with her life post-Tara, she has a nice apartment in the city, she is the head of publicity in her department and she has her freedom.  Translation...she is completely and utterly single, which never bothered her until she came face to face with Tara, where one little white lie about her having a fianc&eacute; turned into a huge life-altering lie.  `BEST ENIMIES' is a very engaging novel and while I loved the concept of having it narrated by both Amy and Tara, I felt that whereas the passages narrated by Amy are very witty, the passages narrated by Tara were too few and far between.  Moreover, while the plot did take a twist that trough me for a loop, I found the ending of the book to be a little unbelievable...ok, a lot unbelievable!  I felt as though Heller would have rather wrap the book up in a nice neat little package than be realistic.  Overall, I found Heller's `BEST ENIMIES' to be a quick and delightful read so that's three and a HALF stars for me! =)	2005-02-13
US	38648243	R3JHHKHQ4N1H4K	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	3	1	2	N	N	On the fence with this one...	In this review I will just tell you what I liked and disliked about Nelson DeMille's `NIGHT FALL' and you can decide whether or not you are interested from there.<br /><br />Many peoples major gripe with this book was the ending; however a little more than halfway through I realized that it really couldn't end any other way.  In keeping with the format of the rest of the book, which was pretty much reiterating the facts while throwing in a few fictional twists, I knew that DeMille wasn't going to provide us with all of the answers because there were none. And while I will say that I had a pretty good idea of how it was going to end by the time I'd reached book three I was still very interested and pleased with the way DeMille handled the inevitable turn his novel was taking.  In other words the ending didn't bother me as much as it seemed to have other reviewers.  What did bother me about this book was basically the entire middle section.  I found it to lack much of the intrigue of the first few chapters and just continued to loose steam until book three where, contrary to popular opinion, I felt that it began to pick back up.  Another problem that I had with `NIGHT FALL' was DeMille's writing style; I found it to be overly simplistic making his characters loose some depth.  I wasn't able to see much in the main character, John Corey besides his wisecracking personality and his vast dislike for the people he worked with.<br /><br />With that said `NIGHT FALL' was a quick read not tedious at all and could be something you would want to indulge in over a weekend or while traveling.  As I said I have mixed feelings about this book but if you are into conspiracy theories and such you may just want to give this one a try.  However if suspense novels are not really your thing, but you were thinking of trying this one out you may want to look somewhere else because this is probably not the novel for you.	2005-02-13
US	38648243	R8R8GEMH8WM9D	031232118X	48498315	Something Borrowed	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nothing ventured, nothing gained?	On her thirtieth birthday Rachel slept with her best friend's fiance.  Rachel has always been the good one, never done a wild thing in her life until that day.  Now she has done the worst thing imaginable to her best friend...well no, acutally the worst comes later when she develops feelings for him and they begin to have an on going affair.  Rachel soon realizes that she is in love with Dex, has been for a very long time and wants him all for herself.  Selfish? Yes, but she has played second fiddle to her beautiful, out going, everything goes her way best friend Darcy for over twenty years so should she give up her future happiness and potentially the love of her life to save her dysfunctional friendship with Darcy?<br /><br />I loved Emily Giffin's debut novel 'SOMETHING BORROWED', her writing style was fun and easy and she took a subject that in the real world is pretty taboo and, without making light of the subject made a witty and entertaining novel.  My only gripe with 'SOMETHING BORROWED' was that I wanted Darcy to have a little bit more likeability so that the readers desired outcome wasn't so clear cut.  I also would have liked a little more closure at the end, by that I mean, I would have liked to know how others reacted to the situation in the end and what happened to the secondary characters after everything was said and done.  But, 'SOMETHING BORROWED' was a great first effort from Giffin and comes highly recommended by me!	2004-12-27
US	38648243	R1A1RH31AR39DA	0312310463	724270647	The Daughter-in-Law: A Novel of Suspense	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Shocking indeed....	I was shocked that with such an interesting premise Diamond yet again managed to turn out just a so so book, and even more shocking than that was that this suprised me.  I was first introduced to Diamond's work through the Kelly Ripa book club pick 'THE GOOD SISTER' which was another average effort from Diamond.  Still her campy, beach read only style was fun, so I therefore went on to read 'THE BABYSITTER' wich I enjoyed very much.  So I had hopes that 'THE DAUGHTER IN-LAW' would be more like the latter than the former but it turned out that this book, while a little better than 'THE GOOD SISTER', was still just average.<br /><br />'THE DAUGHTER IN-LAW' started off well but began to drag in the middle and had long periods where nothing interesting happened.  It did pick up in the end but the pay off, while somewhat of a surprise, was not all that satisfying.  I had many scenarios in mind predicting how this book would end all of which would have been better than the ending Diamond chose.  The books redeeming qualities, however, were that it was a quick and easy read and the descriptions of the lavish homes and yachts and extravegant parties were fun to read about.  All in all 'THE DAUGHTER IN-LAW' was not a great effotr by Diamond but can serve as a quick way to pass the time.	2004-12-27
US	38648243	RU11VSQ0EWQC3	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	28	40	N	N	Thought Provoking...	'THE DA VINCI CODE' has spent the better part of almost two years on the top of the bestsellers list so if you haven't already read it I am sure that you at least know the basic plot line.  If not I am sure that the many reviews on this page have rehashed it for you so I am not going to.  I am just going to briefly say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book and while I see that there are many mixed reviews here (as there should be with anything this widely consumed) I urge you to purchase it, borrow it, or just somehow get your hands on a copy and judge for yourself.<br /><br />Several people have argued that for many the line between the fictional story and reality has been blurred and too much of this book has been taken for fact.  However, as someone who would never have looked into anything further than what I had been taught during my years in catholic school, I would have never been made privy to the fact that some of these ideas even existed much less had the chance to research any of these ideas myself.  I don't suggest that you believe everything in this book, it is a work of fiction, but if most of the topics discussed in this book are new to you, or if you just want to see what all of the hype is about, I do suggest that you read the book and if so inclined look into the theories discussed (as there are many books and web sites dedicated to just that) and form your own opinions from there.  To say the least this book is thought provoking and makes for a great book club discussion!	2004-12-12
US	38648243	R1ZFPPDEIZFYK4	0743418204	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Beyond my expectaions	I expected something completely different from this book.  When I purchased it I thought I was picking up a light and funny, but ttypical chick-lit book, however, once I dove in, 'IN HER SHOES'turned out to be something completely different.  The two main characters, sisters Maggie and Rose, had real issues.  Issues that Weiner didn't try to sugar coat or put a funny or quirky spin on, instead she kept these two women and their respective problems as heartbreakingly real as possible.  Maggie always used her stunningly good looks to get what she wanted even though she rarely knew what that was.  She is a fly by night kinda girl going from job to job, man to man and apartment to apartment which is what ultimately lands her at her sister Rose's doorstep.  When Maggie finds herself jobless and evicted from her apartment she has no place else to turn, but Rose is less than eager to run to her rescue yet again.  However, they are sisters so Rose does the right thing and agrees to let Maggie stay with her for a while but after weeks of living in filth, finding various pairs of her beloved shoes missing and daily criticism about her wieght and wardrobe from her sister, Rose is fed up!  Rose finally decides to give Maggie the boot when the last straw is broken and she catches Maggie in bed with her new boyfriend.<br /><br />Now both Maggie and Rose find themselves on a search for themselves.  Since their mothers death they have always turned to each other and now that their relationship is broken some serious slef-examinaton seems to be necessary.  Maggie takes off in search of a grandmother she never got to know and Rose takes a leave of absence from a promising career to find her true calling.<br /><br />'IN HER SHOES' is an amazingly realistic look into the lives and emotions of an unstable family yet Weiner still manages to keep the book upbeat and witty.  I loved' IN HER SHOES' and cannot wait to read 'LITTLE EARTHQUAKES'!	2004-12-07
US	38648243	R2G9UB924X6HL7	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	3	23	26	N	N	Good but not great	'THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES' is one book in a series from the writing team of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child that seems to have a pretty big cult following.  The premise for this book in particular interested me, when an underground charnel is found during construction of a new high-rise, FBI agent Pendegrast's interests are aroused and when new victims begin turning up seemingly linked to the 19th century murders Pendegrast begins the hunt for a potential copycat serial killer and must find the link between the two killers.  Sounds interesting enough right?  Well it was, until the end, which really disappointed me.  I was completely engrossed in the first two thirds of this book; however, I found some aspects of the final chapters of the book to be a little too implausible and other aspects to be a little too easy.  This could easily have been a five star book, in my opinion, but the ending just did not do it for me. So while I thought that this book was good, it was not as good as I tought it could have been so it only gets three stars from this reviewer.	2004-12-07
US	38648243	R2DW537VV92DWI	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Becky is at it again and funnier than ever!	Becky Bloomwood is off to Manhattan, and if you liked 'CONFESSIONS' I promise you will not be disappointed by this second installment!<br /><br />When her boyfriend Luke has to travel to New York City where his firm is opening a new office for a few weeks Becky is ecstatic that he has offered to take her along.  There relationship had been going great and this is another step forward.  Not to mention all of the great shopping opportunities in the big city...Barney's, Saks, sample sales...even the museums have stores!  Since according to Becky the money you spend overseas really doesn't count she feels free to go crazy, and in her usual fashion, she does.  But when Luke gets wind of her excessive spending their relationship becomes in serious jeopardy.<br /><br />'SHOPAHOLIC TAKES MANHATTAN' is another riotously funny book in the 'SHOPAHOLIC' series.  Be careful where you read this one because you will be laughing out loud for sure!	2004-12-07
US	38648243	R3VWPIYHZ1F4KD	0767915593	238389596	Straight Talking: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	To all Jane Green Fans...	I'd read 'MR. MAYBE', 'JAMIMA J.' and 'BOOKENDS' (my personal favorite) all of which I absolutely adored, so once my new favorite authors first book 'STRAIGHT TALKING' was released here in the states I had to pick it up!  I was not disapointed in the least, 'STRAIGH TALKING' has glints of all of the hunor and flare that, as fans, we have come to expect from Green.  While some of Green's latest books have gone on to more serious topics such as marriage and motherhood 'STRAIGHT TALKING' features a group of four very single friends as each trying to find love and happiness while having a lot of fun in the process!<br /><br />While 'STRAIGHT TALKING' may not be quite up to the standards we have come to look for from this author, you have to remember that this is her first novel and true Jane Green fans will love it.  Moreover, if you have read some of her later books such as 'BABYVILLE' or her most recent 'TO HAVE AND TO HOLD' and are looking to read something more akin to her earlier works than definitely pick this one up.	2004-12-07
US	38648243	R353Z039LJQ520	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A fairly enjoyable thriller	Joe Hickey has figured out how to pull off the perfect kidnapping for ransom.  He knows that the problem with kidnapping is the drop...you always get caught at the drop.  Therefore, he has devised a plan where each family member, mother, father and child are all held in seperate locations for 24 hours where each kidnapper then places a check in call every half hour to make sure that everything is going according to plan.  There is no drop, no confusion and most importantly no one gets hurt.  They have pulled this off numerous times before  and have yet to be caught, however, Joe didn't anticipate running into a family who refused to keep with his plan!<br /><br />'24 HOURS' is an enjoyabe thriller by Iles and while I cannot say that it exactaly kept me on the edge of my seat, I can say that it was well written, well thought out and because everything was done just right I decided to give it 3 1/2 stars.  While others raved about this book I didn't find that I was kept in suspence at all, I could pretty much figure out how the book was going to end from the begining, but hey, at least it kept me entertained for a day or two.	2004-12-07
US	38648243	RK8J41R4KL546	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bet Me	When Min agrees to go out on a date with Cal she knows the only reason he asked her out was because of a bet.  A stupid $10 bet to see if he could get her to sleep with him.  Well Min has never been one to back down from a challenge and decides that one turn deserves another so she decides that it might be fun to make Cal miserable for as long as he is wiling to endure it.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Min had it wrong, Cal actually turned down the bet and asked Min out on his own accord and cannot figure out why she is being so horrible to him.  After the worst first date ever they both agree that they should never go out again.  But the more they want to avoid one another the more they realize that maybe they shoud give this whole datinig thing a second chance.<br /><br />I heard that 'BET ME' was one of Crusie's first works but for some reason was only recently published and it definitely has the feel of her earlier romance books.  Lately Crusie's books have been romance with a hint of mystery wheras 'BET ME' has no mystery whatsoever but is one of her most fun romances to date!	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R2YUUJ3O3F6QY0	0373250363	767485848	As Seen on TV	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not going to give up on Mlynowski yet....	'AS SEEN ON TV' is the first book by Sarah Mlynowski that I have read but I have heard great things about her other books.  Before I purchased 'ASOT' I noticed that some of its reviews were less than stellar but the books premise had me hooked. As a reality TV fan (yes, I admit it!) I was interested to see how Mlynowski would intergrate that world into an average twenty-something's normal life.  She did an OK job and some parts of this book were very funny but my major gripe with this book and the reason I can only give it three stars is that I hated Sunny!  Sunny, the main character, wasnt very likeable in the begining and by the end she was a total...you get my point.  Moreover, as some of the other reviewers stated many of the secondary characters were not properly developed in my opinioin.  I would have loved to know more about Sunny's co-star Michelle, her friend Carrie and maybe even her dad.<br /><br />However, in the end the book was somewhat entertaining and very funny at parts, so since many people have said that this is not Mlynowski's best I am not going to give up on her yet.  I plan to read 'MILKRUN' and 'MONKEY BUSINESS' and then I will decide if this author is worth my reading time.	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R2NL72738MZUDR	B0002MKEHU	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MYSTIC RIVER	I'd had 'MYSTIC RIVER' on my wish list for ages but did not actually purcahse it until I heard that they were turning it itno a movie staring Sean Penn and Kevin Bacon.  While I heard great things anout Dennis Lehane as an author this was the firsrt of his books that I've read and I am very pleased that I chose this one to start with.  Lehane paints a picture so realistically that you can alomst feel the grief, anger and despair that his characters feel.<br /><br />Jimmy, Davey and Sean were childhood friends and while all very different in personality, Jimmy being the tough one, Sean the boy from the \\"right side of the tracks\\" and Davey the follower, they never missed a Saturday together.  However, one Saturday things take a turn for the unexpected when two men posing as police officers abduct Davey.  Once returned to his familly days later and knowing the horrors that Davey must have enduredd at the hands of these men, the friendship between the three boys is irrevocably torn.  Twenty some odd years later, when Jimmy's daughter Kaite is murdered the three of them are thrown back into each others lives.  Sean is the investigating officer in Katie's murder and Davey who is married to Jimmy's wife's cousin is there to lend his support.  But with a secret hanging over his head about his own misdeeds the night of Katie's murder Davey must try to keep it together himself.<br /><br />When young Davey is abducted in the first few chapters of the book you feel the anguish that his family and friends go through as they await his safe return.  You can also feel how tourtured that experience has left Davey as an adult.  When Jimmy's daughter is murdered you feel the pain and sadness that he and his family go through and understand his urge to find the killer and make him pay at any cost.  And when Sean is forced to investigate the murder of his estranged friends daughter you can feel how torn he is between doing his job and a sense of loyalty to an old firend in the hardest time of his life.<br /><br />After reading 'MYSTIC RIVER' I couldn't wait to see how this story played out on the big screen and for once the movie stayted very true to the book.  Penn and Robin's performances were defintiley Oscar worthy as you see these characters brought to life.  If you loved the movie you will love this book even more.ime of his life.<br /><br />After reading 'MYSTIC RIVER' I couldn't wait to see how this story played out on the big screen and for once the movie stayted very true to the book.  Penn and Robin's performances were defintiley Oscar worthy as you see these characters brought to life.  If you loved the movie you will love this book even more.	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R1DBU71POHPATE	0399151273	890960277	Retribution	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Retribution	One of the many reasons that I write reviews on this site is to introduce readers to a book that they may not have otherwise read or even heard of.  Jillian Hoffman's debut novel, 'RETIRIBUTION' is one of those books that may have gone unnoticed but is defintely worth reading.<br /><br />For over a year State Attorney CJ Townsend has been tracking a serial killer who the media has dubbed Cupid.  She has been to every crime scene, seen every victim and interviewed every family.  She knows more about this casse than practically anyone.  Therfore, when a suspect is caught with one of the victims in the trunk of his car she is ready to move full speed ahead with his trial and get this monster behind bars.  Until, that is, she realizes that this monster who commited all of these heinous murders is the very same monster who raped and tourtured her twelve years prior.  Now knowing that there is a conflict of interest if she tries this case, she must decide if she should pass off the case to another attorney who doens't know the case as well and could potentially let this man who has been haunting her nightmares for the past twelve years walk, or try her best to hold her sanity together and try the case herself.<br /><br />'RETRIBUTION' is a great debut for Hoffman and I would definitley reccomend this to anyone who likes a good legal thriller!	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R15O907QE1LIC1	0670033332	293714732	Olivia Joules and the Overactive Imagination	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Olivia Joules	I have never read 'BRIDGET JONES DIARY' or 'EDGE OF REASON', but being that Helen Fielding is known to be one of the originators of the chick lit genre as it is today I wanted to read soemthing by her.  So when I heard that she was coming out with a new novel I had to have it. 'OLIVIA JOULES AND THE OVERACTIVE IMAGINATION' was nothing like what I expected.  It was a cross between a chick lit novel and intrigue in true 007 form.  While I did find some aspects of 'OLIVIA JOULES' funny, I found much of the book to be a little over the top.<br /><br />While on assignment in Miami writing an article for facial creme for her newspaper back in London, Olivia meets international playboy Pierre Ferramo, who suspiciously remids her a little too much of Osama Bin Laden.  Olivia being the woman that she is believes that there is a story here and convinces one of the magazines that she freelances for to let her do a story on a luxury yach that is docked in Miami.  Olivia's intention is to make herslf part of Pierre Ferramo's already large entourage in order to get the goods on him.  But before she knows it there is a huge explosion on the yacht and hundreds of people are killed, the explosion is believed to be the work of Al-Qaeda terrorists.  Is this a conincidence?  Is it Olivia's imagination or could there be a connection here?  Olivia follows Ferramo and his crew from Miami to Honduras to The Sudan to Los Angeles in hopes of uncovering a terrorist plot and saving the word.  Yeah.<br /><br />While 'OLIVIA JOULES' tended to drag in certian areas and I assure you that the book is pure fluff, it is a quick and easy read made for a day at the beach or when you just don't feel like flexing those brain muscles!	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R2ZBSMZM9K2MR1	1551666189	224857817	Manhunting (Mira)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Manhunting	I have read and enjoyed many of Jennifer Crusie's books so I decided to go back and read some of hr earlier works and I must say that I was disappointed with 'MANHUNTING'.  This is the story of Kate who has been single for as long as her best friend can rmember so she manages to convince Kate that a vacation to a Kentucky resort (where many single and eligible men just so happen to frequent) is just what the doctor ordered.  While a tad bit skeptical about the trip Kate decides that a vacation couldn't hurt and takes off for Kentucky.  While there she meets a host of men all of whom she manages to maul, offend or out right attack at some point during her stay.  The only man with whom she has not had a bad experience with at the resort is Jake the grouns keeper (and co-owner) of the hotel.  Jake is handsome, scruffy and all wrong for Kate.  Despite the fact that they both belive that there could never be anyting romantic between the two of them they seem to turn to each other for comfort and solace in the midst of a busy, hormone ridden resort.  But could Kate really give up everything she has worked so hard for to live the simple life, or could Jake give up the life of simplicity that he has come to love to go back to the hustle and bustle of city life?<br /><br />I found 'MANhUNITNG' to be a bit generic and had none of the humor or quirky characters that I have come to know and love from Crusie.  While the book was mildly entertaining I would sooner recommend 'FAKING IT' or 'BET ME' also by Crusie.	2004-11-17
US	38648243	RFX4S3C3GNCD3	0312990456	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	One For the Money	When Stephanie Plum finds herslef out of work, flat broke, and with a repo-man on her tail she knows that she needs to act quickly!  She needs cash and fast, so she turns to her cousin who is a bail bondsman.  She thinks that maybe she can do a little filing and answer a  couple of phone calls until she can find a better job.  But when she finds out just how much she can make being a bounty hunter she decides that this may be a good career opportunity after all.  The risk is high but if she can mkae $10,000 off of just one job it will be well worth it!  Unfortunately, much to Stephanie's chagrin the man that she is looking for is her long time adversary Joe Morelli who after one steamy night many years ago never called or spoke to her again.  Joe is wanted and supposedly dangerous so Stephaine must take every precaution to get her man and collect her $10,000, however after a couple of encounters with Joe she finds that he may actually be innocent!<br /><br />I wasn't in love with this book.  I have heard all of the hype about this series and wanted to give it a whirl but I must say I wansn't all that thrilled with 'ONE FOR THE MONEY'.  Maybe I was turned off by Evanovich's descriptions of New Jersey (being from Jersey myself) or maybe it was just that the story line didnt grab me in the least.  The saving grace for this book was  the main character Stephaine Plum and her nemisis/love interest Joe Morelli who were both likable and interesting characters.  Because I did like Stepahnie and Joe I will buy the second book in the series but if I am not won over by that one I will not purchase the third.  I am hoping that this series gets better as it goes on.	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R24B4IC7RO5A2T	0312983646	159884357	The Babysitter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Babysiter	It is election time and politician Gordon Acton needs to do something big to put him over the top with the voters.  He manages to convince his wife Ellie to forgo hiring their usual summer babysitter and hire Theresa Santiago a young Latina who comes from a foster family and is working her way through school.  Gordon is sure that this will get him the minority vote therfore making him a shoe in to gain elected office. That is until Gordon ends up sleeping with Theresa one drunken night.  Now Gordon is afraid that his secret will come out, hurting his chances at winning the election and ruining his marriage.  Gordon is willling to do anythign to keep that from happening.<br /><br />Ellie Acton was a bit unsure about hiring Theresa, this is an important summer for her because she is writing her doctoral thesis and needs complete concentration. She doesn't think that this is the best time to change babysitters.  However, in the end she concedes and despite what she originally believed, she finds that Theresa is a godsend.  She is wonderful with the kids and more importantly she had been a major help in researching some of the information for Ellie's thesis.  Things couldn't have worked out more perfectly, that is until one of Ellie's proffessors contacts her and informs her that she has been accused of plagiarism.  Ellie dosen't know who has accused her of such a thing but she does know that all the help that Theresa has given cannot help the situation. After all of her hard work Ellie will do anything to stop the truth about Theresa's hand in her thesis from coming out.<br /><br />Convinced that Theresa is blackmailing both Ellie and himslef Gordon knows that he must take action.  But is she really blackmailing them?  Are the many lies about her past a mere misjudgement made by an insecure young girl? This was a refreshingly different take on the same old \\"hand that rocks the cradle\\" story, and defintiely worth the read!	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R1CWDJBIBMN4QF	0451208862	78764489	Dead Girls Don't Wear Diamonds (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Dead Girls Don't Wear Diamonds	When Nora Blackbird is informed that the wife of her college sweetheart committed suicide by drowning herslef in the family pool she feels an overwhelming sense of de ja vu.  She knows that Laura did not commit suicide and that somehow she is going to be forced to investigate this murder on her own once again.  Laura who Nora had just spent time with the night before her death was having trouble in her marriage and was trying to recreate herslef by trying to look exactally like her husbands first love, Nora Blackbird.  Being that she and Laura openly argued at a party the night before Nora knows that her name will soon appear on the suspect list and she therefore must try to solve this before she becomes the no. 1 suspect!  To complicate matters Laura was known around town as the local jewel thief and had countless enemies all of whom are suspects in Nora's eyes.<br /><br />Nancy Martin once again charms us with a lighthearted and fun look into the lives of the hilarious Blackbird sisters and produces a mystery that never takes itself too seriously and is very entertaining.  I thouroughly enjoy this series and hope that we see much more of the Blackbird sisters in the future!	2004-11-17
US	38648243	R2RLRJ2T3TIFAI	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	CONFESSIONS	I had heard many great things about the 'SHOPAHOLIC' series but for some reason put off reading it. I think that maybe the title put me off a little bit, thinking that it was more of a diary that an actual story.  Finally, after ages of hearing about how great the series was I borrowed 'CONFESSIONS' from a friend and boy was I glad that I did!  This has got to be one of the funniest books that I have ever read!  Becky Bloomwood is hilarious and I can completely relate to her irrepressible urge to buy whatever is put in her path!  Immediately after reading 'CONFESSIONS' I went out and purchased it (so that I could have a copy of my own) and the following two books in the series and I devoured those too.  The 'SHOPAHOLIC' series has skyrocketed to the top of my favorite series list and Kinsella is now a \\"must read\\" author for me.  If you haven't yet read any of this series GO OUT AND GET IT TODAY, you will not be disappointed!	2004-11-16
US	38648243	R2XAA7NN7LNX98	0525947914	590450510	Just One Look	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Just One Look	When Grace Lawson finds a mysterious picture mixed in with her newly developed family pictures she thinks that it was a simple mistake, that someone else's picture got mixed in with hers.  Until she realizes that one of the men in the picture is her husband and that the photograph in question was taken at least fifteen years ago.  After Grace confronts her husband with the picture he suddenly flees their home leaving Grace and their two children with a lot of questions.  When the police wont help her, Grace must dig into the past and find a way to bring her husband home but as she soon finds, there are so many secrets in both her and her husband Jack's past that their whole marriage may be based on a lie.<br /><br />With a dangerous killer after her and others looking to unearth the mystery of that photograph Grace must race against time and look deeply into not only her husbands past but her own as well in order to uncover the truth and stop this killer before he harms Jack, herself and most importantly her children.<br /><br />`JUST ONE LOOK' kept me up late into the night trying to finish this fast paced thriller.  And while I highly recommend, well anything by Harlan Coben really, I did not give `JUST ONE LOOK' my usual Coben five star rating.  This is because there was so much going on in the last 30 pages or so that it got a little jumbled.  Nonetheless, this is definitely another great novel by Coben, 4 stars!	2004-10-04
US	38648243	R3W2BQ8TBXQHRP	1401352154	131922247	Bling	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bling: A Novel	While I did enjoy `BLING' by Erica Kennedy, I think that I was expecting something a little bit different.  Everyone kept comparing Erica Kennedy's `BLING' to a Jackie Collins novel, however it was lacking some of the drama and a lot of the scandal of a novel by Collins.  The story of Mimi Jean's rise to the top of the music industry and going from a small town girl from Toledo, to a Beyonnce-esque R & B star WAS a modern day Cinderella story...sort of, however, instead of turning into the bell of the ball, Mimi turned into a ghetto fabulous princess who diverted almost completely from her former dirty-backpacker self.  I loved reading about Mimi's shopping sprees, photo shoots, club going antics and her wild friends. The ending was a little cutesy for me; I wished that Kennedy had taken it all the way, maybe even left us hanging a little in hopes of a sequel but despite all this I liked this book which is why in the end I decided to give it four stars.  `BLING' is a great debut by Kennedy and I definitely plan to pick up her next novel!	2004-10-03
US	38648243	R32YR05W8L0UK6	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Didnt see is coming!	The first thing I do when I finish a book, especially one that I really enjoyed, is look at the reviews to see what others though of it.  I tend to look at the lowest ratings first to see whether or not I agree with the reviewers take on what I just read, and for `PARANOIA' most people who gave it a poor review said that it was predictable....now call me slow but I just did not see it coming!  I did not think it to be predictable in the least and I loved the way Finder wrote the book in the first person, it really drew me to the character and into the story.<br /><br />When slacker Adam Cassidy throws an over the top retirement party for a loading dock worker and charges it to his employers expense account he fully expected to get fired.  What he didn't expect was to be threatened with a minimum jail sentence of twenty years if he didn't cooperate with Nick Wyatt, founder and CEO of Wyatt Corporation.  You see Nick has heard through the grapevine that his competition, Trion, has something major in the works that could potentially revolutionize the communications industry and Wyatt wants it!  This is where  Adam comes in, they train him to be a model employee as well as their perfect spy.<br /><br />Once Adam is hired he quickly sky rockets to an executive level position, working directly for Trion's CEO.  He is making a six-figure salary, driving a Porsche, and living in a $2million condo all paid for by the company.  But as Adam soon finds out being a spy and trying to keep his day job are not as glamorous as it may seem.<br /><br />One reviewer hit it on the nose when they said that this book  reminded them of a Harlan Coben novel.  `PARANOIA' was not quite as fast paced as Coben's novels but it certainly had the same feel to it, twist at the end included and all!	2004-09-15
US	38648243	R2VP5FS7JG2W2O	1401301193	884574103	Gotham Diaries	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Gotham Diaries	It was refreashing to read a book by and about African-American's that had nothing to do with drugs, gangs or life in \\"tha hood\\" and I look forward to reading more by these two authors in the future!  With that said you may be wondering why I only gave this book 3 stars, well it is more like 3 ½ actually, `GOTHAM DIARIES' had the potential to be a 5 star book but it was not long enough (and I don't mean that in a good way). The 269 pages were not enough to fully develop it's characters or to delve more deeply into this society that most people only get a glimpse of through the antics of the Hilton sisters!  I would have loved to learn more about Tandy's past and why she feels and reacts the way she does.  I longed to know more about the inner workings of Ed and Lauren's relationship and Manny's early days in \\"Gotham\\".<br /><br />The rumor is that they are thinking of turning this book into a Soul Food like series, and if they do I will be there for that.  Hopefully the characters will be further explored and the inner workings of the African-American elite will be highlighted.  `GOTHAM DIARIES' was a decent first effort for the writing team of Tonya Lewis Lee and Crystal McCrary Anthony but I look forward to seeing them grow as authors in the future.	2004-09-09
US	38648243	R3D3WLW66S003I	0385336810	693014192	Can You Keep a Secret?	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Can You Keep A Secret?	I am in the process of reading Anna Karinina, the classic Leo Tolstoy novel, and while it is very interesting, I needed a break!  So I decided to pick up Sophie Kinsella's new book and it was exactly what I needed!  `CAN YOU KEEP A SECRET?' is light hearted and funny with all of the charm of Kinsella's `SHOPAHOLIC' series.<br /><br />Emma is trying to climb her way up the corporate ladder at her marketing firm to no avail.  While on a return flight from a business trip gone completely wrong she meets a handsome stranger.  As the plane experiences a frightening amount of turbulence, Emma spills every detail imaginable about her life to this stranger.  Upon return to work Emma finds the company abuzz with the anticipation of a visit from the companies founder Jack Harper, which to Emma's surprise happens to be the stranger from the plane!<br /><br />The story takes a hilarious turn as Emma not so skillfully tries to avoid Jack, while Jack tries his hardest to spend as much time with Emma, his new ally, as possible.  `CAN YOU KEEP A SECRET' gave me a fun three-day break from a tough novel and I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed it!  4 ½ Stars!!	2004-08-24
US	38648243	R3PHEAL9IKOPYE	0452284902	124265247	Weekend in Paris	Books	3	7	7	N	N	3 ½ stars....	Molly Clearwater is a young woman who'd never managed to find her way out of her hometown until she got a job with a pharmaceutical company in London.  Now, after a year of hard work and long hours, she is offered the opportunity of a lifetime to accompany her boss to a weekend conference in Paris!  Molly is thrilled that she has been chosen for this opportunity until she learns of her boss's plan to seduce her during their trip.  After confronting her boss Molly resigns from her position and finds herself jobless and even worse out of a free trip to Paris.<br />Impulsively Molly decides to hop on a train and spend the weekend in Paris after all.  Once in Paris Molly meets a host of people who will change her outlook on life forever, there is Alicia, a carefree Australian girl with no inhibitions, a gorgeous young French artist, and as she sneaks into her boss's hotel in disguise she meets the most unlikely person of all.<br />For Molly her `WEEKEND IN PARIS' was a life changing experience, for me...it was just OK.  There were parts of this book where I found myself laughing out loud while there were other parts where I found my mind completely wandering.  I give this book 3 ½ stars because it is very funny in some areas and the descriptions of Paris were very vivid, however, in my opinion Sisman's `JUST FRIENDS' is a much better book.	2004-06-11
US	38648243	R2GS4132F86DQY	0525947299	468712802	No Second Chance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	No 2nd Chance	No one writes heart pounding; edge of your seat suspense like Harlan Coben and following the success of `TELL NO ONE' and `GONE FOR GOOD', `NO SECOND CHANCE' is no exception.  This novel takes off at an accelerated speed from the beginning and doesn't stop until the very last page!<br />When Dr. Marc Seidman's home is broken into and he is nearly fatally shot, he wakes up days later to the news that his wife was killed and his baby daughter is missing.  The search for his child begins when a completely unnerving ransom note is sent to Marc's very wealthy but distant father-in-law.  Also, Marc soon finds himself to be the prime suspect in his wife's murder and has to prove his innocence while, at the same time, trying to find his daughter.  There are so many twists and turns and off beat characters in this novel that once you start it you will not want to put it down.  I have recommended this book to all of my friends and they have all enjoyed it, even better than `GONE FOR GOOD', `NO SECOND CHANCE' will not disappoint!	2004-06-11
US	38648243	R3CWBI58JXZIPI	0446531510	765311385	Land of the Living (French, Nicci)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	'LAND OF THE LIVING'	`LAND OF THE LIVING' is the story of Abbie Devereaux, a young woman who is held captive by a strange man with no memory of how she got there or anything that happened in the days leading up to her capture.  We follow Abbie as she tries to uncover the truth about why she was kidnapped as well as prove to the police that her story of being held against her will is true.  This is the first novel by Nicci French that I have read and I devoured it in one day.  The novel was fast paced and kept me guessing until the very end.  I will be rushing out to buy other titles by French!	2004-06-06
US	38648243	R3R1SWW7B5RPB6	0451207246	862475559	How to Murder a Millionaire (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	How to Murder a Millionaire	I'll be honest with you, not only had I never read any of Nancy Martin's books but I had never even heard of her.  I just happened to be searching through Amazon in search of something light and funny to read when the title of this book caught my attention.  I am certainly glad that I picked it up.  This was just the type of read that I was looking for it was light and witty with just the right touch of suspense.<br />Nora Blackbird comes from a prominent Pennsylvania family who has fallen from grace.  Her parents, after squandering the family fortune, have fled to Palm Beach, FL leaving Nora and her sisters to live with the burden of their mistakes.  Nora, who is left with the biggest burden...a $2 million property tax bill, is forced to take a job at a local newspaper as a reporter for the society page, as well as sell off 5 acres of the Blackbird land.  Nora soon finds herself tangled up in a murder investigation when Rory Pendegrast the host of a lavish party  and old family friend is found smothered to death in his home.  The fun begins when Nora enlists the help of her sisters, the strong yet beautiful Emma and the ditzy Libby.  Throw in a touch of romance with the handsome and \\"connected\\" Michael Abruzzo and you have a recipe for success.<br />While some aspects of this book may be a bit unbelievable, such as Nora's willingness to even speak to a mother who would leave her a $2 million property tax bill and the ending may have been a bit rushed, I thought `HOW TO MURDER A MILLIONAIRE' was a quick enjoyable beach read.	2004-06-06
US	38648243	R17YIXH6ESL1K1	1551667436	730094399	Strange Bedpersons (MIRA)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Strange BedPERSONS!!	Having read a couple of Cruise's newer books such as `FAST WOMEN' and `FAKING IT' I decided that I wanted to read some of her earlier works so I purchased `STRANGE BEDPERSONS' and `MANHUNTING'.  The writing styles of the latter are so different from those of the former it is almost hard to believe that the same person wrote them, however, while I wasn't thrilled with `MANHUNTING' I really enjoyed `STRANGE BEDPERSONS' despite the difference in style.<br />The relationship between Nick and Tess was endearing and it was fun watching these two completely opposite people develop a fling into something much more.  I also enjoyed the relationship between the secondary characters Gina, Tess' best friend, and Park, Nick's colleague and long time friend.  More over, I liked the fact that there was an actual story here, not just watching two people fall in love.  I felt for Nick who was fighting to make partner in his law firm and the highly liberal Tess who was torn between the Nick she saw at home and Nick the social climber.  I noticed that a lot of people gave this book poor reviews but, call me a sucker for a good \\"opposites attract\\" love story; I give it four stars!	2004-06-06
US	38648243	R2X8BSSA72ZZ3Y	0743245520	976518630	Hello, Darkness (Brown, Sandra)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	HELLO DARKNESS	Sandra Brown is one of my favorite suspense writers.  I enjoyed some of her other works such as ` ENVY' and `THE CRUSH' and `HELLO DARKENESS' ranks right up there with some of my favorites.  It is a race against time when radio personality Paris Gibbson receives a terrifying phone call from a regular listener who goes by the name of Valentino.  Valentino claims that upon Paris' advise his girlfriend is going to break up with him, so he has kidnapped her and plans to kill her in 72 hours leaving the girls death on Paris' conscious. When Paris enlists the help of the Austin police force she meets up with detective Dean Malloy someone who she though she had left in the past when she left her home town of Huston after a tragic accident.<br />As time winds down Paris and Malloy try desperately to find Valentino, while simultaneously trying to reconcile with their past, before he carries out his threat.  This is a fast paced novel that truly kept me guessing until the very end.	2004-06-06
US	38648243	R2OVPDXILHCK6B	0767912268	873187256	To Have and To Hold	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Not Green's best......	I have said it before and I will say it again.... I absolutely LOVE Jane Green!  With this said I have to admit that `TO HAVE AND TO HOLD' is my least favorite of her books.  While the book started out strong as we delved into the lives of Alice, a plain Jane with aspirations to live a simple life in the country turned sophisticated city girl, and Joe, Alice's husband who loves the fast paced social scene of living amongst the rich and powerful in London.  But as we soon find out Joe has a penchant for leggy blonds, which unbeknownst to Alice, he quite frequently acts on.<br />The relationships between Alice and Joe, Alice and her quirky best friend Emily, and Joe and his mistresses held my attention for about half way through the book.  But by the second half `TO HAVE AND TO HOLD' really started to drag.  There were long drawn out descriptions of Alice's dream home and too much talk of gardening.  I also began to find myself frustrated with Alice for not seeing what was going on right underneath her nose.<br />If this is the first Jane Green book that you have read or are thinking about reading, please try `JEMIMA J.', `MR. MAYBE' or `BOOKENDS' any of which I guarantee you will love!	2004-06-06
US	38648243	RYLQPDNIPLAA5	0066211247	145502276	Ain't She Sweet?	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ain't She Sweet?	This is the first book by SEP, as she is called by her many long time fans, that I have had the pleasure of reading.  \\"AIN'T SHE SWEET\\" is an interesting tale about what happens when a small southern towns bad girl returns home.<br />Sugar Beth Carey was the most hated girl in Parish, Mississippi. She was beautiful, rich and came from one of the town's most prominent families and now 15 years later she is forced to return home to Parish after a string of bad luck.  But don't think that this is the story of a woman who has been humbled by the hardships befallen her and has returned home to make amends.  Sugar Beth has lost none of her edge and is simply in need of some fast cash so she can hightail it right back out of her small Mississippi town.  Unfortunately this is not as easy as she may have hope and she is force to come face to face with old enemies who still hold old grudges.<br />\\"AIN'T SHE SWEET\\" is not the funny romp that I expected when I purchased it, it does have it's more serious moments.  I, however, enjoyed it nonetheless.  I will definitely be purchasing more of SEP's works in the future!	2004-04-12
US	38648243	R1FJSWW5JVIN3S	0789471884	996305894	KISS Guide to Pregnancy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So Far So Good!	I am still very early into my first pregnancy and I found 'K.I.S.S.' to be very helpful and informative.  The attention grabbing color pictures and personal advice from the author contribute to making this book one of the more interesting pregnancy books I have seen as of yet!	2003-07-26
US	38648243	R19Y1KN6LXUCPZ	0375412824	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The Dive from Clausen�s Pier	As many reviewers have stated `THE DIVE FROM CLAUSEN'S PIER' started off well.  It was easy to read with a promising story line, however, somewhere not too far into the book, the main character, Carrie started to become very unlikable.  It made you wonder if you were supposed to feel sorry for her and her situation or everyone around her that she was so clearly hurting.<br />Carrie is twenty-three years old and has been with her fianc&eacute; since she was fifteen.  Despite the fact that this should be the happiest time of her life, she is feeling very suffocated having been with the same man for the last eight years, having the same group of friends since elementary school and having lived in the same small Wisconsin town her entire life.  But when the unthinkable happens one Memorial Day weekend and Mike Carrie's fianc&eacute; becomes paralyzed from the neck down and she is forced to suppress her feelings to flee and be there for Mike.  Until one day when she does just that.  Carrie packs her bags in the middle of the night and heads straight for New York City without as much as a note to her mother, best friend Jamie, or Mike.<br />Once in New York Carrie tries to start a whole new life for herself but it seems that all she does is recreate her old one in a new city.  She moves into a brownstone with an old high school friend, immediately starts a relationship with an older man (whom she met at dinner party back in her hometown) that completely consumes her.  She does not get a job or do anything to give her a new sense of independence she just latches on to her new beau and feels sorry for herself about what she'd done, but makes absolutely no effort to resolve it.<br />Overall `THE DIVE FROM CLAUSEN'S PIER' is not nearly as bad as many reviewers have stated but certainly not as praiseworthy as many other reviewers have stated.  Packers writing style is very easy to read and the story did keep me wondering how everything would turn out.  Unfortunately, the main characters selfishness, I believe, is a major turn off to many readers...it certainly was for me.elfishness, I believe, is a major turn off to many readers...it certainly was for me.	2003-07-06
US	38648243	RKSFAKYP816FE	0767912233	745333509	Babyville: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Babyville	A reviewer from HELLO! Magazine describes `BABYVILLE' as unputdownable and Jane Green's fourth novel to be released in the US is just that indeed...unputdownable!<br />`BABYVILLE' focuses on three main characters, Julia who is trying to have a baby to no avail, Maeve, a career woman who never wanted children and now faces the most important decision of her life, and Sam a new mother of seven month old George, who never realized exactly how much a baby can turn ones life upside down.  Each story gives you a different perspective of pregnancy and motherhood, one of which I am sure everyone can relate to.<br />In this novel Jane Green takes a look at a subject rarely touched on in this type of chick lit and makes it light and funny (all the while giving all us non-mothers something to think about =).	2003-06-07
US	38648243	R1H4RBAKSOHF4Z	0312280947	148241573	Summerland: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Summerland	I just finished reading \\"SUMMERLAND\\" by Malcolm Knox this morning and I must say that after struggling through the beginning of this book that in the end I really did enjoy it.  Summerland is not an action packed novel of lies and deceit, rather it is a story that is slowly unwound by a man who missed the entire thing.  Richard is telling the story of the affair of his wife and his best friend.<br />Richard and Pup, Hugh and Helen were best friends since their teenage years, which is when Hugh and Pup actually began their affair that lasted well over a decade.  The four of them had a yearly tradition of summering at Palm Beach a tradition that unbeknownst to Richard, was built on lies from the very beginning.  Even Helen the beautiful wife of Hugh knew of the affair and in many ways had a hand in controlling it.  Now years later after the whole story has been revealed to him by Helen, Richard attempts to recant the stories of his friendship with Hugh, his marriage to Pup, the marriage of Hugh and Helen and the affair that ultimately ruined all of them.<br />As I said, and I cannot emphasize this enough, I struggled through the first few chapters of this book.  I thought it was over written and a bit slow but as I read on I became more engrossed in these four lives and very interested to see how, in the end, everything played out.  I can honestly say that I am glad that I did not give up on this book in the beginning because I would have missed out on a really entertaining novel.	2003-06-01
US	38648243	R1XCO7XLCUYUYO	0786868155	621970565	Social Crimes	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Social Crimes	Jo Slater is a very wealthy, very powerful socialite.  She serves on the board of one of New York's most prestigious museum, she owns one of the worlds most impressive collection of eighteenth century furniture, she throws the best parties and has friends in all of the right places.  Jo worked very hard to get to where she was, as she was not born into this life.  However, it the blink of an eye all that Jo had worked so hard to attain was ripped away from her upon her husbands death.  That is thanks in part to the beautiful French Countess Monique de Passay who began an affair with Lucius Slater, Jo's husband of over twenty years, a little over a year before Lucius' death.  Lucius' will leaves all of his assets split between the Countess and his son leaving Jo virtually penniless and in a lot of debt.  After years of obsessing over revenge, Jo finally devises a plan to bring down the Countess and regain her standing in society.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novel of New York's socially elite and how quickly it can all be taken away.  \\"SOCIAL CRIMES\\" is a very enjoyable book that will have you rooting for Jo all the way.	2003-06-01
US	38648243	R1CVM30SF0E301	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gone For Good	If you are thinking about reading Harlan Coben's latest novel solely based on the praise of \\"TELL NO ONE\\" I can assure you that \\"GONE FOR GOOD\\" will not disappoint!  \\"GONE FOR GOOD\\" is an action packed, roller coaster ride of a novel that will keep you guessing until the very last page.<br />Will Klein has been leading a pretty normal life since the disappearance of his brother Ken over a decade ago.  He has a good job at Covenant House, a girlfriend he soon plans to marry and has finally begun to put the past behind him.  That is until his mother's death brings the circumstances surrounding the believed death of his brother back to the surface.  This coupled with an abrupt departure of his girlfriend lead Will to believe that these events may somehow be connected, forcing him to take a closer look at the events surrounding his brothers disappearance. This eventually leads Will to the realization that Ken may not really be dead after all.	2003-06-01
US	38648243	R2LLYE7L94UGIW	0767907809	834442453	Bookends: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Bookends	As I have said before I really enjoy Jane Green's work.  Her novels are light and funny with story lines interesting enough to keep you reading late into the night.  \\"BOOKENDS\\" was no different.  The story of four college friends Cath, Si, Josh and Portia who after a series of events begin to drift away from the beautiful and very wealthy Portia only to attempt to bring her back into the fold ten years later, is just as funny and engaging as any other of Green's novels.  Bookends, however does have a serious side and touches on some important subjects which Green, in my opinion, did masterfully.  She was able to write about a very serious subject without changing the tone of her novel and still managing to keep you wanting more!	2003-06-01
US	38648243	RXA97HROLVMJL	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Faking it	Matilda Goodnight leads a predictably boring life recreating famous works of art on dining room walls for the rich.  She supports her mom, sister and niece and therefore cannot afford to pursue her true passion of painting her own original works.  However, Tilda's boring existence is turned upside down when she is forced to steal a painting from the home of a wealthy art collector so as not to expose a long time family secret.  This is when she meets Davy Dempsey a professional thief who after one brief meeting in a dark closet is sure to turn Tilda's life upside down in more ways than she ever anticipated.<br />\\"FAKING IT\\" is charming and witty with a cast full of off the wall characters that will keep you wanting to read more.	2003-06-01
US	38648243	R11R11WW7S5REA	1573225541	223433193	Going Down	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Going Down	Having read `HIGH MAINTENANCE' I knew to expect the sort of dark and sardonic humor that only Miss Belle can produce.  However, while it was easy to read, `GOING DOWN' did not posses the same charm as it successor.<br />`GOING DOWN' is the story of NYU freshman Bennington Bloom, who turns to working as a call girl to pay her way through college.  That is really the most that I can say about this book because there was really nothing else to it.  There were virtually no characters to focus on other than Benny, there was no understandable motive for anything that Benny did, and the entire plot consisted of Bennington going from \\"house\\" to \\"house\\" and her various exploits.  The only saving grace for this book was that distinctive Jennifer Belle humor that every once in a while caused me to laugh out loud.  I cant wait to read Belle's third novel so that I can compare the three and decide whether or not I would buy a fourth novel by this author, but if you liked `GOING DOWN' you will love `HIGH MAINTENANCE'.	2003-02-08
US	38648243	R3W3305A9AECXC	1569471886	80230928	First Fruits	Books	3	3	3	N	N	FRIST FRUITS	I just finished reading `FRIST FRUITS' by Penelope Evans and I think that I must have been reading a completely different book that most of the other reviewers.  While I did enjoy this book it was certainly not what I would describe as bone chilling.  Slightly disturbing maybe, sad definitely, but bone chilling absolutely not, nor did I find fourteen year old Kate Carr to be remotely evil.  Quite the opposite in fact; I believe that Kate is an average teenager who thinks the world of her extremely egotistical and very much disturbed father. Keith Carr is Kate's fanatically religious father who preaches one thing but practices something completely different, and unfortunately Kate believes everything he has taught her and is left to deal with what happens as all her beliefs are slowly stripped away from her.<br />I really don't want to give too much of this book away, but it is almost impossible to write a proper review without  doing so. However, I will say that although this book is primarily about Kate what disturbed me the most were the actions of her father who always believed that there was a \\"lesson\\" to be taught and his very unorthodox  methods of teaching them. If in purchasing this book you are expecting a book frightening enough to keep you up at night this is not it.  But if you are looking for something that explores the psychological effects that growing up in a household such as Kate's has on an adolescent girl this is the book for you.	2003-02-01
US	38648243	R1DP2FX7USM9KA	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent	`BELL CANTO' is not the type of novel that I would typically read, much less enjoy, however when I purchased it I was expecting something completely different.  What I was expecting was the story about political leaders and prominent businessmen being taken hostage by a terrorist group and the way that they are overthrown (sort of like `Die Hard').  Well....it is a story about political leaders and prominent businessmen (and one of the worlds most talented opera singers) being taken hostage.  But it was also a story about love and relationships and the bonds that can be formed between people regardless of race, class, gender or even language.<br />Okay, I'll admit that it did take me while to get into this book.  Maybe because it wasn't what I what I expected or maybe because I didn't quite know where the story was going.  But once I did start getting into it I fell in love with the story and how the hostages related to their captors, how the hostages formed friendships with one another despite speaking completely different languages and how they all created their own little world which everyone, hostages and terrorists alike, truly began to enjoy.<br />I read many of the other reviews of `BELL CANTO' on this site as I always do after I finish a book and noticed that there were many that were less than flattering. And I must say that it is very unfortunate that a few misplaced commas can ruin some peoples experience in reading a story.  I enjoyed Ann Patchetts novel for the beauty of the story not for the grammar or editing. Admittedly these are important aspects of a novel but, for me, they do not make or break story, which is why this is one time that I am definitely glad that I did wait until after I was finished with this book to read its reviews.  I would not have wanted my experience ruined by searching for grammatical errors!	2003-01-31
US	38648243	RX823M5LWL0P	0767905172	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Jemima J	I love, love, love Jane Green!  She has written some of the most fun books that I have read in a long time.  After reading `MR. MAYBE' I rushed out to buy `JEMIMA J', one of Green's most critically acclaimed books and if you were to ask me which of the two I like best I would not be able to tell you because I LOVED them both!<br />Jemima Jones is about 120lbs. over weight with very few friends and a dead end job, that is until she befriends co-workers Geraldine and the love of her life (whom she has barley spoken two words to up until this point) Ben.  This brand new popularity gives Jemima a new found confidence that inspires her to start losing the weight and for the first time start living her life.  So when Brad, a man that Jemima had been \\"dating' via an internet chat room asks her to come to LA for a visit she throws caution to the wind and decides to show off her new look in the land of the beautiful.  But as Jemima soon learns being thin is not all it is cracked up to be if what was making you unhappy for so long had nothing to do with the way you looked.	2003-01-31
US	38648243	R3T43ZCM213C2C	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Crush	I have only read two of Sandra Brown's novels, 'THE CRUSH' and 'ENVY' but already I would say that she is one of the few authors whose novels I would rush to buy as soon as it came out. Brown combines romance and suspense in a way that very few authors before her have been able to.<br /> In 'THE CRUSH' Dr. Rennie Newton has just come off a lengthy trial in which hired hit man \\"Ricky Roy\\" Lozada was acquitted for the murder of a wealthy businessman. Lozada, who had not hidden his fixation on Rennie throughout his trial, would now like to show her his appreciation for having been forewoman on the jury and the main advocate for his acquittal, . So when one of Dr. Newton's colleagues, who had just won the position of chief of surgery, a position that Rennie had also been up for, turns up dead, Detective Oren Wesley automatically suspects that Rennie hired Lozada to take out the competition.<br />Once Detective Wesley's suspicions of Lozada's involvement in the murder are pretty much confirmed he enlists the help of former partner and long time friend Wick Threadgill. Threadgill, who has taken an extended leave of absence from the police force, is enticed back into the line of duty having his own personal score to settle with Lozada. However, Wick is not prepared for the strong attraction he feels toward the reticent Rennie Newton, who's damaged past causes her to hold her privacy to the utmost and has allowed no one to get close to her in twenty years.<br />'THE CRUSH' is a very fast paced story with a good mix of suspense and romance without being overly maudlin. I would highly recommend 'THE CRUSH' to anyone who likes reading a good suspense novel. 4 ½ stars!	2002-12-31
US	38648243	R10LAS0WBVZJY5	0671034685	199360363	Dead Above Ground	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dead Above Ground	`DEAD ABOVE GROUND' by Jervey Tervalon is set in 1940's New Orleans where racial segregation ran rampant and the law cared little about \\"colored crimes\\".  However, Lita DuChamps comes from a family who has always been light enough to pass and has seen how the other side lives and knows when to use that to their advantage.  So when smooth-talking Lucien Faure¢ who has the \\"devils good looks\\" enters into their lives seemingly out of nowhere the DuChamps realize that they need to use all of their resources to keep Lucien far away from their family and more importantly away from Adele the eldest DuChamps girl who despite being married to a Navy officer who is away most of the time has, like many others before her, fallen prey to Lucien's charms.  However, little does anyone know, Mama DuChamps knows all too well why Lucien has entered back into her life and refuses to let him tear her family apart without a fight to the death.<br />`DEAD ABOVE GROUND' is an excellent story that will keep you turning the pages trying to find out what will happen next.  I read the bulk of this book in one day and am now forced to wait until July of 2003 to read Trevalon's follow up, `LITA', which I will be pre-ordering to ensure that I have my copy as soon as it is published.	2002-12-30
US	38648243	R2010QIJJGZXH3	0061012351	240835376	Vendetta: Luckys Revenge	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Vendetta: Lucky�s Revenge	'VENDETTA' is the fourth book in Jackie Collins wildly successful Santangelo series and once again Collins did not disappoint. In 'VENDETTA' Lucky finds herself once again the target of the Bonnatti families revenge, This time it is Donnatella Bonnatti, the widow of Santino Bonnatti, who seeks revenge on Lucky for the death of her husband for which she feels Lucky is responsible. Donnatella Bonnatti, with the help of many plastic surgeons and a language coach to help rid her of her heavy Italian accent, has now transformed herself into Donna Landsman an extremely successful business woman who has her sights set on taking over Lucky's Panther Studios. Lucky, who worked hard to get Panther Studios back on top is determined not to be forced out as head of the studio and replaced with Mickey Stoli, the former head of Panther who ran the studio into the ground. That is until a string of personal misfortunes bring Lucky to believe that maybe this isn't just a string of bad luck, that maybe these misfortunes are some how connected to her past.<br />The Santangelo series is by far my favorite ongoing series and while I am eager to read 'DANGEROUS KISS' the fifth installment in the series I am not eager to finish out the series. I hope that Collins continues to write about the Santangelo family for at least a couple more books!	2002-12-30
US	38648243	R214YYDNTBHI8Q	0767905199	527463952	Mr. Maybe	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Mr. Maybe	I must admit, I love a good romantic comedy and `MR. MAYBE' by Jane Green has all of the ingredients to, in my opinion, make it a five star book!  It is the story of Libby Mason a twenty-seven year old PR executive, who is looking for a Mr. Right who is handsome, has a good personality (although that goes without saying), and most of all is rich.  Instead she meets Nick, a gorgeous writer, who makes her laugh, is fantastic in bed and very affectionate but who is also out of work, lives on government assistance, and is allergic to commitment.  Despite all of this Libby is crushed when things don't work out between her and Nick.  But after a night on the town with best friend Jules, Libby meets Ed one of England's most eligible bachelors, according to a very popular London magazine, who just so happens to be an extremely wealthy investment banker and dotes on Libby in every way.  Unfortunately Ed is ten years older than Libby and much too \\"straight\\" for her, has a hideous mustache, and is awful in bed.  It is lots of fun watching Libby trying to sort out her feelings for Nick who \\"is not ready for a serious commitment\\" and Ed who is looking to mold her into the perfect wife, while giving her everything she could ask for in the process.<br />`MR. MAYBE' is an incredibly fun story with a great cast of characters from Jules, Libby's very down to earth best friend to Amanda Baker a wannabe famous, social climbing, TV presenter.  All in all I would highly recommend `MR. MAYBE' to anyone looking for a fun, fast read for a day at the beach.  This was the first Jane Green novel that I've read but it certainly will not be the last!	2002-12-22
US	38648243	R7Z46W7FDJRBR	0375400931	619497840	The House of Sleep	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The House Of Sleep	`THE HOUSE OF SLEEP' by Jonathan Coe has to be one of the most original books that I have read in a long time.  It is a dark comedy about a group of friends who in college lived together in an off campus residence hall called Ashdown.  In the book all of the odd numbered chapters take place between 1983-84 when the group is in college and the even numbered chapters take place in 1996 twelve years later, when Ashdown has now been turned into a clinic for people with sleep disorders.<br />One of the main characters, Sarah, suffers from narcolepsy as well as a disorder that causes her to dream so vividly that she often  mistakes them  for reality.  Robert, another of the main characters who shows up mainly in the odd numbered chapters, is madly in love with Sarah who unfortunately does not return his affections.  And then there is Terry a freelance journalist who once required fourteen hours of sleep but now finds himself getting less than twenty minutes of sleep a night.  These three along with a host of other characters makes `THE HOUSE OF SLEEP' a very interesting read that will keep you guessing and at times keep you laughing.	2002-12-05
US	38648243	R25QI5564HSHAB	0316781142	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Last Time They Met	I just finished `THE LAST TIME THEY MET' yesterday and I am still in disbelief about many aspects of the book.  The story of Linda and Thomas takes the reader through many twists and turns that, by the end when the real shock comes about, it will leave you stunned!  `THE LAST TIME THEY MET' is a story that starts in the present day, when we meet Linda and Thomas at the age of fifty-two and have not seen each other for decades, and sort of rewinds itself all the way back to when they first met.  The story takes you back first to when Linda and Thomas unexpectedly reunite in Africa at the age of twenty-six then back even further to the first time they met in high school at age seventeen.<br />Shreve takes us through all the twists that their relationship takes revealing things little by little until one VERY big revelation at the end.  I really enjoyed the way Shreve told the story from back to front so to speak and what impressed me the most was how as the characters changed so did the language.  There were times where the book tended to drag and the language was more complex than necessary but overall `THE LAST TIME THEY MET' is definitely worth reading and would make an excellent book club selection, because you will undoubtedly want someone to discuss it with when you are done.	2002-11-17
US	38648243	R17HYBW14JH2JF	0688171451	362197980	Altar Ego	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Worst book I've ever read?.....Maybe.	Honestly I tried to give this book a chance.  I struggled through to the end of this book despite the fact that I kept telling myself to just put it down and never pick it back up again.  But unfortunately I did pick it back up and it never got any better.  I do not get offended easily, however, as an African-American woman I found parts of this book to be very offensive but, sorry to say, that was not the only downfall of this book.  `ALTAR EGO' was not very funny, the characters were totally unlikable (to the point where I almost didn't even care what happened to them next), and the ending was completely unbelievable.<br />Becky, the main character of this book ditches Julian, her fianc&eacute;, at the altar feeling overwhelmed by the idea of commitment, despite this Julian takes Becky back into his life and his home.  But at a friends  wedding Becky meets an American rap star and begins a long-term affair with him.  Throughout this book Becky proceeds to hurt everyone in her life from her lover and fianc&eacute; to her best friends and yet Lette expects us to feel sympathy for her when things don't go her way.  I am a big fan of British humor but `ALTAR EGO' is not a good example of a `BRIDGET JONES DIARY' style of book.  And the portrayal of this Lenny Kravitz type rap star (a combination that is unbelievable enough by itself) was a completely inaccurate representation of American culture.  Simply put `ALTAR EGO' was just plain bad, 1 star!!	2002-11-10
US	38648243	R1N3LVMA10VMWO	157322930X	389877689	High Maintenance	Books	4	4	5	N	N	High Maintenance: An unusual book	Recently divorced Liv Kellerman finds herself having to move out of her million-dollar Upper East Side apartment that she once shared with her husband into a run down tenement with a non-working refrigerator and used furniture.  Even though Liv's father is a famous fashion designer, so she could really move anywhere she wanted but Liv decides not to ask for help and try to make it on her own.  Liv starts out on her journey to independence by becoming a reader for a blind judge but she soon decides that that is not the job for her and that she is just pushy enough to be a real estate agent.  She soon finds that this is her calling and begins working for an androgynous woman by the name of Dale who owns a real estate gallery, which sells real estate and knick-knacks as well.  On the road to independence Liv encounters some of the strangest characters one could imagine none stranger that her love interest Andrew who in my opinion is the nut job of the century which says a whole lot about Liv who decided to date him in the first place.<br />This book was not at all what I expected.  I bought `HIGH MANTINENCE' thinking that it was going to be a light-hearted romantic comedy but it turned out to be a bit dark, very sarcastic and extremely strange.  It took me a while to warm up to the book because I couldn't relate to the characters nor did I like them but the further I read the funnier it got until I found myself laughing out loud.  I grew to like Liv and her sarcastic nature but continued to despise her boyfriend Andrew (who was living with another woman the entire time) till the bitter end.  I could not understand what Liv could have possibly seen in Andrew who upon their first meeting asked her \\"what would you do if I threw you off of this balcony?\\" and then proceeded to lift her up and dangle her over the edge.  I kept waiting for Liv to see the light and get rid of this creep but she continued to go back to him as their relationship got stranger and stranger.  As I said this novel was completely the opposite of what I expected but that's what made me stay up at nigh trying to finish this book.said this novel was completely the opposite of what I expected but that's what made me stay up at nigh trying to finish this book.	2002-10-31
US	38648243	R3SVV26C0K6Q42	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Beach House	Jack Mullen a 27-year-old law student, who also happens to be interning at a very high profile New York law firm, returns home to Montauk, a small town within the upscale community of the Hamptons, to the news of his younger brother Peters death. The local police are ruling Peter's death as accidental claiming that he drowned with no plans to investigate it any further. However, according to the medical examiners report it is clear that Peter was beaten to death. Jack, his eighty-six year old grandfather as well as the rest of the town believe that the police department is assisting in the cover up of Peters murder because he was killed at the Hamptons beach house of Barry and Campion Nebauer, one of New York's wealthiest and most powerful families. Now the entire town is trying to figure out what really happened to Peter that night and how the Nebauers were involved. But this is proving to be a very difficult task because someone is going to great lengths to keep the truth about Peter's death under wraps.<br />I have to admit, despite the low rating of this book, I really enjoyed reading James Patterson's 'THE BEACH HOUSE'. It was a very easy read (I read it in two days) and it held my interest the entire time, especially the last one hundred or so pages, I flew right through them. The way everything plays out is a little bit unbelievable but it is so much fun trying to figure out what is going to happen that I really didn't mind. 'THE BEACH HOUSE' is definitely on of my favorite James Paterson novels.	2002-10-29
US	38648243	R17CO0CBFGCRB1	0786865636	783765194	Middle of Nowhere	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Not For Me	When Officer Maria Sanchez is brutally attacked outside her home and left paralyzed Lieutenant Lou Bolt is assigned to investigate her case.  Lieutenant Bolt, normally a homicide detective, is now put on this burglary case due to the \\"Blue Flu\\" an unofficial strike of the Seattle PD leaving all departments very short handed.  Now Bolt must try to figure out if Sanchez's attack was the unfortunate result of one of a string of burglaries or if there is more to this \\"Blue Flu\\" than meets the eye.<br />As I said in my introduction this novel was just simply not for me.  It's gotten great reviews, so for police drama lovers you may really enjoy this book.  However, even though Pearson did try to explain all of the police terminology, I found it to be a little too technical for my taste.  I also found `MIDDLE OF NOWHERE' to be a little slow at times and I found myself drifting off and missing entire scenes.  So really it just comes down to `MIDDLE OF NOWHERE' is not my type of book.	2002-10-23
US	38648243	R2VZD30EN81ANP	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fast Women	Even as I write this review I am still on the fence about `FAST WOMEN'.  On one hand I did really enjoy the book but on the other hand `FAST WOMEN' wasn't exactly a romance nor was it exactly a mystery and not the best of either genre.  But ultimately I decided to give the book four stars, which is probably more like three and a half which according to my personal ratings system (see more about me) puts `FAST WOMEN' at slightly above average.<br />`FAST WOMEN' is about a fairly newly divorced woman, Nell Dysart, who finds herself having to start over completely as with her marriage so went her career.  So Nell is forced to accept a position (gotten for her by her ex-brother-in-law) as a badly needed office manager for the McKenna Detective Agency.  Nell soon finds herself thrown in the center of a plot to blackmail the owners of the prestigious O&amp;D law firm that just happens to be owned by the very same ex-brother-in-law that got her, her job who also happens to be her best friend Suze's husband, also beeing blackmailed is the father, &amp; the O in O&amp;D, of her other best friend Margie!  But after people start turning up dead Nell and her bosses Gabe and Riley McKenna begin to suspect a cover up of something much deeper.<br />While all of this is taking place Nell and Gabe, who first bump heads over everything from office furniture and business cards to a case about and emotionally abused dog by the name of SugarPie, begin to find themselves inexplicably attracted to one another.  Forging a relationship, however, proves to be very difficult for Nell and Gabe with the case and their ex's (oh and did I mention that their kids have also started dating one another??)  making it all the more difficult.  But it is very interesting to find out how and if these two can get it together.	2002-10-22
US	38648243	R1GW63LJXIL76Z	0553572199	922691895	Eye Contact	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Eye Contact	I actually read `Eye Contact' a few years ago.  It was the first erotic thriller that I'd ever read and it still stands out in my mind as on of the best.<br />This is the story of actress Nicolette Stallings who only feels powerful when seducing someone of the opposite sex.  However, her sexual game of cat and mouse soon turns deadly when she propositions a man she meets in a restaurant who she playfully dubs as \\"Wally Wall Street\\".  After their one night encounter at a high class hotel Nick finds it hard to get rid of \\"Wally\\" who now blames her for the break up of his marriage.  After an unsuccessful attempt on his own life \\"Wally\\" otherwise known as Jeffery White, finally does succeed in killing himself but not before he manages to frame Nick for his murder!  As Nick becomes the center of the medias attention and hunted by the police she tries to find a way to prove her innocence not without having a few sexual encounters along the way.<br />`Eye Contact\\" is an excellent erotic thriller not for the timid and will keep you at the edge of your seat trying to figure out how everything will play out in the end.  Who would have though that the minister for 7th Heaven could write like this?	2002-10-22
US	38648243	R1PVTUOYFN2FLX	0553572199	922691895	Eye Contact	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Eye Contact	I actually read 'Eye Contact' a few years ago. It was the first erotic thriller that I'd ever read and it still stands out in my mind as one of the best.<br />This is the story of actress Nicolette Stallings who only feels powerful when seducing someone of the opposite sex. The sexual game of cat and mouse soon turns deadly when she propositions a man she meets in a restaurant who she playfully dubs as \\"Wally Wall Street\\". After their one night encounter at a high class hotel Nick finds it hard to get rid of \\"Wally\\" who now blames her for the break up of his marriage. After an unsuccessful attempt on his own life \\"Wally\\" otherwise known as Jeffery White, finally does succeed in killing himself but not before he manages to frame Nick for his murder! As Nick becomes the center of the medias attention and hunted by the police she tries to find a way to prove her innocence not without having a few sexual encounters along the way.<br />'Eye Contact\\" is an excellent erotic thriller not for the timid and will keep you at the edge of your seat trying to figure out how everything will play out in the end. Who would have though that the minister from 7th Heaven could write like this?	2002-10-22
US	38648243	R26M24YI59ZLWC	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	'WHITE OLEANDER'	After seeing the preiviews for the movie 'WHITE OLEANDER' I decided to pick up the book because it looked like an intiguing story. The book was not at all what I expected it is the story of Astrid a teenage girl who is put into foster care after her mother Ingrid is convicted of murdering her lover. Astrid who had lived in some of the most exotic places on earth from Denmark to Guanajuato now at thirteen finds herself in the California foster care system. She ultimatley moves around to six dfferent foster homes each in their own way worse yet at the same time better than the last. Astrid realizes that she must grow up quickly and learn to fend for herself in order to survive in this system.<br />'WHITE OLEANDER' at times was a bit tedious to read with the novel moving at a slow pace at times and the metaphoric langauge but in the end I was very glad that I did because despite that the story was well worth reading. 5 stars!	2002-10-12
US	38648243	R1FOO1WW5ZUOQY	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	0	N	N	'THE LOVELY BONES'	By now most people already know what 'THE LOVELY BONES' is about as it has been talked about to no end on various talk shows and been at the top of the bestseller list for almost the entire summer, so there is no need for me to give a synopsis of the plot in this review, it would probably be redundant.  I, instead, would like to give you my opinion on this remarkably different book and comment on what others have said in their reviews.<br />I have noticed that while most people thoroughly enjoyed this book there are many people who called it sad and depressing.  I guess that is in the eye of the beholder because I found it to be quite the opposite.  I thought the story of Susie Salmon was a hopeful story about how life goes on after a loved one dies and the simple joys that we sometimes take for granted.  I loved watching Lindsey, while trying to cope with her sisters death, try to start a life of her own and experience the things every teenager does such as her first kiss and starting high school.  I also enjoyed watching her parents try to find a way to cope with the loss of their daughter in their own separate ways, it gives you hope.  I thought Grandma Lynn was absolutely wonderful!  When she arrived it was like a breath of fresh air and helped everyone to forget even if for only a little while. One of my favorite parts of this book was when Grandma Lynn first came to visit and gave Abigail and Lindsey makeovers at the kitchen table; it literally put a smile on my face.  There are plenty of other parts of 'THE LOVELY BONES' that I found to be heartwarming but I don't want to give the whole book away :).  In no way did I find 'THE LOVELY BONES' to be depressing, of course there are moments that are sad but mostly, in my opinion, as I said, it was truely hopeful.	2002-10-03
US	38648243	R2O7206AIDS86J	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	8	8	N	N	'THE LOVELY BONES'	By now most people already know what 'THE LOVELY BONES' is about as it has been talked about to no end on various talk shows and been at the top of the bestseller list for almost the entire summer, so there is no need for me to give a synopsis of the plot in this review, it would probably be redundant. I, instead, would like to give you my opinion on this remarkably different book and comment on what others have said in their reviews. <br />I have noticed that while most people thoroughly enjoyed this book there are many people who called it sad and depressing. I guess that is in the eye of the beholder because I found it to be quite the opposite. I thought the story of Susie Salmon was a hopeful story about how life goes on after a loved one dies and the simple joys that we sometimes take for granted. I loved watching Lindsey, while trying to cope with her sisters death, try to start a life of her own and experience the things every teenager does such as her first kiss and starting high school. I also enjoyed watching her parents try to find a way to cope with the loss of their daughter in their own separate ways, it gives you hope. I thought Grandma Lynn was absolutely wonderful! When she arrived it was like a breath of fresh air and helped everyone to forget even if for only a little while. One of my favorite parts of this book was when Grandma Lynn first came to visit and gave Abigail and Lindsey makeovers at the kitchen table; it literally put a smile on my face. There are plenty of other parts of 'THE LOVELY BONES' that I found to be heartwarming but I don't want to give the whole book away :). In no way did I find 'THE LOVELY BONES' to be depressing, of course there are moments that are sad but mostly, in my opinion, it was hopeful.	2002-10-03
US	38648243	R2QOXC2SYE6808	0312291655	118570607	The Good Sister	Books	3	6	8	N	N	The Good Sister	I must say that I was a little disappointed with this book.  `THE GOOD SISTER' has an excellent premise: two sisters Jennifer and Catherine who have, since childhood, been bitter rivals.  But they are forced to work together to run a multi-billion dollar satellite company that their deceased father founded.<br />Jennifer and Catherine play two very different roles in the company, which, with the help of hired mentor as well as mediator Peter Barnes, helps to cool down this bitter rivalry.  Jennifer is the brains behind the launching and running of the satellites and Catherine is the sophisticated head of PR and in charge of bringing new clients into the company.  But once superstar Padraig O'Connell shows an interest in one of the sisters and seemingly tries to worm his way into the company the rivalry begins to heat up again and soon turns deadly after an attempt is made on both sisters' lives.  It is now up to Peter to solve the mystery of which sister would like to see the other one dead.<br />The problem that I had with `THE GOOD SISTER' was that it was a bit unbelievable with so many attempts on basically everyone in the books lives and all of them coming out fairly unscathed and the back and forth between the two sisters trying to figure out exactly who is trying to kill them.  Also the book was a little predictable, for me, there was no big shocker at the end.  However `THE GOOD SISTER' was a very easy read and it did keep me entertained for a couple of days.  3 stars.	2002-09-30
US	38648243	R53W4YNXBC7TH	034544227X	607274871	Just Friends	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Just Plain Fun	'JUST FRIENDS' is a timeless story about long time friends Freya and Jack who get more than they bargained for after Freya's lawyer boyfriend dumps her and she is forced to move in with Jack. The story moved at a slow paced in the beginning but once the bickering between Freya and Jack began so did the fun.<br />Freya and Jack have a hard time adjusting to life as roommates especially when Jack starts dating a much younger woman and Freya takes to answering personals ads but when Freya needs someone to accompany her to England and pose as her boyfriend for her \\"wicked\\" step-sisters wedding its Jack that she turns to. Once these two get to England things really begin to heat up and the story takes an unexpected twist that will have you scrambling to finish this book.<br />My only regret about 'JUST FRIENDS' is that the author did not, in my opinion, sufficiently develop the characters of Cat and Michael. I would have loved to see more interaction between those two but overall 'JUST FRIENDS' was a fun read and I would recommend it to anyone who likes romantic comedies. 5 Stars!	2002-09-26
US	38648243	RG3TVBFQSHXXZ	0671023470	717520020	Lady Boss	Books	5	16	17	N	N	'LADY BOSS'	I recently finished 'LADY BOSS' the third book in the Lucky Santangelo series and I absolutely loved it! Where 'LUCKY' was good 'LADY BOSS' was great. In this third installment Lucky goes to Hollywood in hopes of acquiring a major movie studio, however, just before she closes the deal she finds out that there is a catch. She has to work undercover at the studio for six weeks as a plain Jane secretary! At first Lucky is reluctant but soon the idea of surprising her husband movie star Lennie Golden with his own studio coupled with the sheer enjoyment of being able to spy on all of the studio executives is too much for Lucky to pass up. But as Lucky soon finds out Lennie is not too thrilled with her surprise, which puts their marriage in serious jeopardy.<br /> There are so many enjoyable story lines in this book that it makes it hard to put down. An example of this is the story of Venus Maria and Martin Swanson the movie star and the billionaire. Swanson is a business tycoon who is married to Dena Swanson a woman who became famous by using the Swanson name and refuses to let anybody take that away from her including the Madonna like movie and recording star Venus Maria. But Venus is determined to have Martin all to herself that is until her brother Emilio shows up and stirs up trouble for the couple.<br /> I found this book to be extremely entertaining and I cannot wait to read the next book in the series. Lucky is powerful, demanding and independent a true example of a strong woman. 5 Stars!	2002-09-18
US	38648243	R1LFAGRYHF5446	0553109847	838101255	Neurotica	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilariously Funny	Neurotica is a hilariously funny novel about tabloid journalist Anna Shapiro who is assigned to write an article about female adultery. This seems like the perfect assignment for Anna who decides to do a little hands on research after years of having her husband Dan, who is a hypochondriac, refusing to have sex with her for fear that he may have a heart attack. Anna's exploits are so funny that they will have you laughing out loud but even funnier is Dan's fear of...well everything from testicular cancer to spontaneous human combustion. These two paired with Anna's mother who is being stalked by a fellow obsessive compulsive group member and Anna's best friend Brenda who is by Anna's side through it all while getting into a little trouble of her own makes for a very amusing read.<br /> I haven't read a whole lot of British humor but after reading Neurotica I will definitely be reading much, much more. If you want an easy and entertaining read this is the book for you! 4 Stars!	2002-09-18
US	38648243	R212H20EK3YM6K	0671023489	953350768	Lucky (Lucky Santangelo)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	'LUCKY'	'LUCKY' is the second installment of the Lucky Santangelo series and in a departure from the first book `CHANCES'; 'LUCKY' puts the focus on the beautiful and headstrong daughter of former mobster Gino Santangelo.<br />    In this second installment Lucky takes on the task of building her own hotel in Atlantic City but runs into a few obstacles as well as old friends along the way.  Lucky's childhood friend Olympia Stanislopolus is reintroduced to us in this novel as a twenty-seven year old, thrice divorced heiress with a lust for rock stars, drugs and sex.  We are also reintroduced to Olympia's father, Demitri Stanislopolus, the founder of one of the world's largest shipping empires and one of the richest men in the world, who, without giving away too much, is inexplicably drawn to Lucky whom he'd only seen as a child before but now sees as a woman.  Jackie Collins also introduces us to a host of new characters such as Lennie Golden, an attractive up and coming comedian who after a chance encounter with Lucky at the Magiriano, the Las Vegas hotel owned by Lucky and Gino, has his sights set on the dark haired beauty.  Then there is Jess a blackjack dealer at the Magiriano and Lennie's best friend who, after tragedy strikes, ends up making a new life for herself by taking Lennie's career in her hands.  We also meet Santino Bonnatti, son of Enzio Bonnatti a long time Santangelo family rival, who vows to take revenge on Lucky after his father's death.<br />       `LUCKY' is a great follow up to `CHANCES' and gives the reader a taste of what's to come for Lucky and Gino in the future Lucky Santangelo novels.  The only complaint that I had with this novel is that Collins did not focus enough on the building relationship between Gino, Lucky and Steven Berkley, Gino's newfound son.  But overall `LUCKY' is another excellent book by Collins. 4 ½ stars!	2002-09-11
US	38648243	R291579R6KFDCV	0671789422	239209793	Possessing the Secret of Joy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	JOYFUL	I first read this book in college for a report that I was doing on female circumcision and this book definatley put a new spin on all of the prevoius research that I had done.  'POSSESSING THE SECRET OF JOY' takes you inside the life of Tashi a young woman living in Africa where this ritual is concidered a rite of passage for all young women.<br />Reading Tashi's story put a face to all of the facts and figures of my research.  Alice Walker helps the reader to understand how this ritual affects young women in Africa and how to many young women this is a welcome practice.  This is by no means light reading there are parts that will make you laugh and parts that will make you want to cry, it will give you new insight into a culture that we are not too familiar with as well as give you hope.  There is a passage at the very begining of this book that I have kept with me throughout the years so if you have the opportunity to read this book please do so you will not regret it and you just may find something within it that sticks with you too.  4 Stars!	2002-08-05
US	38648243	R2M8THM42ZV97J	0399147365	873881745	Cold Paradise (Stone Barrington)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An adventure...	I have to say that I was really torn between giving this book 3 stars or 4 stars. Part of me was saying the book was a little trashy, and maybe a tad predictable, and worse yet a little unbelievable. Yet the other half of me (the more adventurous half) was saying give it 4 stars, the book was glamerous, sexy, and exciting! So I settled on giving 'COLD PARADISE' 4 stars all that glamour and giltz won out in the end!<br />Stone Barrington, the hero of this novel takes us on an adventure to the glamorous Palm Beach, Fl in search of a woman with whom one of his clients, a VERY weathly internet entrepreneur, has fallen in love after just one meeting. This assignment at first glance seems easy enough, live on a mulit-million dollar yacht with the billioaires beautiful chef and cruise around Palm Beach for a couple of days in an expensive sports car. That is until Stone realizes that the woman he is in search of is actually a woman from his past. A woman with a dangerous past of her own that Stone knows about all to well, a past that now proves to be extremely dangerous for Stone's wealthy client.<br />I must say if you like a little adventure as well as little bit of sex then this is a must read BEACH book. And as I said in the end I gave it 4 Stars (a guillty pleasure)!	2002-07-25
US	38648243	R1STNXCGD0TZ9H	0425119920	742127435	Strangers	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Strangers	I am big mystery/suspense reader and Strangers does not rank up there with any of my favorites. This book, to put it simply was just okay!<br />The version a that I read was 526 pages long and I found that to be entirely too long (how others read versinons between 800 and six-hundred-and-some pages and still gave this book five stars I don't know)! The story could have been told very well in about 400 pages and would have gotten a much better review from me, however, I felt that much of the 526 pages was just fluff that unnecessarily filled up space. My other problem with this book was the ending which was totally predictable (let me just say, without giving away the ending, what you think it is, it is).<br />Strangers was not a horrible book but I expected so much more from it as well as from Koontz which is why I can only give it 2 1/2 stars (there is no 1/2 option so I can really only give it 2).	2002-07-22
US	38648243	R2M9OHPE43OF7N	0446357170	741781121	Chances (Lucky Santangelo Saga)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Amazing	If I could give Chances more than five stars I would!  Chances is the first Jackie Collins book that I have ever read and I think that I started with the right one.<br />Chances takes you from 1913 all the way up to 1979 in a tale that begins with Gino Santagelo the infamous mob boss and his rise to power.  Gino came from very humble begings, an abusive father, a mother who abandoned him at the sage of five and a damageing stint in a juvinle detention center yet managed to work his way up to owning two of the most successful hotel & casinos in Las Vegas.  But once Gino is force into exile his duaghter the beautiful Lucky Santangelo takes over the family business and makes a name for herself as one of the most powerful women in Las Vegas.  And lets not forget the story of Carrie and her son Steven. Carrie  was forced into prostitution at a very young age and lived a life filled with drugs and alcohol that took her from various whorehouses to running a very successful one of her own, until the birth of her son Steven that is, when she managed to find a better life for her and her son.<br />This was a brilliantly written story, however, while the chapters that focused on Gino may have been more exciting, Carrie's story was really superbly written.  This book is really a great lead in to the second installment of this series 'LUCKY' which I plan to begin reading right away.  I give Chances 6 Stars!	2002-07-19
US	38648243	R14XJ1200BQ2T0	0399131434	742127435	Strangers	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Strangers	I am big mystery/suspense reader and Strangers does not rank up there with any of my favorites. This book, to put it simply was just okay! The version a that I read was 526 pages long and I found that to be entirely too long (how others read versinons between 800 and six-hundred-and-some pages and still gave this book five stars I don't know)! The story could have been told very well in about 400 pages and would have gotten a much better review from me, however, I felt that much of the 526 pages was just fluff to fill up space.<br />My other problem with this book was the ending which was totally predictable (let me just say, without giving away the ending, what you think it is, it is). Strangers was not a horrible book but I expected so much more from it as well as from Koontz which is why I can only give it 2 1/2 stars (there is no 1/2 option so I can really only give it 2:)).	2002-07-10
US	38648243	R135JKN1T7E0WC	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Lots Of Plot Twists!	In this novel Sandra Brown takes you inside the world of publishing and into the writing process itself which I thought was a clever idea but Sandra Brown topped that with her book inside the book!<br />  There are two stories in this book the story of Tod and Roark two college rooomates and best friends whose frienship ends tragicly when jelousy gets in the way.  It is also the story of Maris a succesful book publisher, Noah Maris'husband, who also works for the prestigious publishing company owned by Maris'father, and the author of &quot;Envy&quot; Parker Evans, a recluse who lives on a remote coast of Georgia. Envy continued to hold my attention until the very end with so much more brewing beneath the surface such as torrid affairs, a major takeover in the works, and a conniving newspaper columinst who will stop at nothing to get what she wants and she has her sight set on everything that Maris has. This is the first Sandra Brown book that I have read but I will certianly be reading more of her work! 5 Stars!	2002-07-10
US	38648243	RKGTO43PTPZFJ	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not Bad	I ordered this book dispite all of the bad reviews written on this site, however, I did keep them in mind before reading the book, preparing myself for the worst. That being said, while The Millionaires may not be a great book it was not a bad book either. The Millionaires is the type of book that you read knowing that it is not exactally going to be War &amp; Peace but you take it for what it is, a light beach read and just enjoy the story, which is exactally what I did and in the end I can honestly say that I did enjoy it.	2002-07-10
US	38648243	R2ANMPSX2W401I	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Excellent Book	This may be one of the most exciting books that I have ever read!! It is a real page turner with twists and turns at every corner. Tell No One is the frist Harlan Coben novel I have ever read and I was more than pleasently surprised. The intricate tale woven by Coben is one that will keep you on the edge of your seat (literally) and while some found it ubelivable I found it to be extremely exciting!<br />The novel is set eight years after the brutal murder of Dr. Dvaid Beck's wife Elizabeth. But as this novel unwinds you learn that nothing is as it seems and for Dr. Beck this realization means trouble, when his life and the lives of friends and family become in jepordy. &lt;<br />BR>This is a roller coaster of a book and I can't wait to read 'Gone For Good' Coben's Latest. I've given Tell No One to my entire family and they all LOVE it and continue to pass it on. I give it 5 Stars!!!!!!	2002-07-09
US	38648243	RJSKLM6KCHJZW	038549825X	648980228	Not a Day Goes By: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Harris has done it again!!	Not a Day Goes By has brought to the forefront two of E. Lynn Harris' most intrigueing (and wicked) characters. It is the story of Yancy Braxton and Basil Henderson who are engaged to be married but have a difficult time finding their way to the alter when friends, family and a whole lot of scheming get in the way.<br /> I loved this book because it showes what happens when two self-absorbed, arrogant (and wicked) people get together and find love in one another and all of the drama that it brings. 4 STARS!	2002-07-09
US	38648243	RYPBI70ZD7YQ6	0312288115	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	4	1	2	N	N	' Social Climber'	Katya is so self absorbed you can't help but love her!!!! Hoping for a sequel (Katya Livingston takes on LA maybe??) this book gets 4 1/2 stars!	2002-07-09
US	38648243	R3EU4TDLGYMP13	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Daddy's Little Girl	Despite many of the other reviews calling this book predictable, I found it to be a page turner!  I have always enjoyed Mary Higgins Clark and Daddy's Little Girl did not disapoint, if you are also a fan I am sure that you will enjoy it too. 4 STARS!	2002-07-04
US	38648243	R31P4NBVYAVNT9	0312288115	370098606	Confessions of a Sociopathic Social Climber: The Katya Livingston Chronicles	Books	4	0	1	N	N	' Social Climber'	Katya is so self absorbed you can't help but love her!!!!  Hoping for a sequel (Katya Livingston takes on LA maybe??) this book gets 4 1/2 stars!	2002-06-28
US	38648243	R1ZDVTPGAYQZ5H	0399131434	742127435	Strangers	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Strangers	I am big mystery/suspense reader and Strangers does not rank up there with any of my favorites.  This book, to put it simply was just okay!  The version a that I read was 526 pages long and I found that to be entirely too long (how others read versinons between 800 and six-hundred-and-some pages and still gave this book five stars I don't know)!  The story could have been told very well in about 400 pages and would have gotten a much better review from me, however, I felt that much of the 526 pages was just fluff that unnecessarily filled up space.  My other problem with this book was the ending which was totally predictable (let me just say, without giving away the ending,  what you think it is, it is).  Strangers was not a horrible book but I expected so much more from it as well as from Koontz which is why I can only give it 2 1/2 stars (there is no 1/2 option so I can really only give it 2).	2002-06-18
US	38648243	R31SU9AUXDKN2N	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not Bad	I ordered this book dispite all of the bad reviews written on this site, however, I did keep them in mind before reading the book, preparing myself for the worst.  That being said, while The Millionaires may not be a great book it was not a bad book either.  The Millionaires is the type of read that you enter into knowin that its not going to be great but you take it for what it is and just enjoy the story which is exactally what I did and in the end I can honestly say that I did enjoy it.	2002-05-23
US	38648243	R34T6MSNWQUJFB	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots Of Plot Twists!	I found this book to be extremely interesting!  It takes you inside the world of publishing and the writing process itself which I thought was an ingenious idea by itself but Sandra Brown toped even that with her book inside the book!  Envy held my attention untill the very end with all it's plot twists and just trying to figure out who is who. This is the first Sandra Brown book that I have ever read but I will certianly be reading more of her work! 5 Stars!	2002-05-11
US	38648243	R19Y0SYXU6W0SQ	0451205626	873881745	Cold Paradise (A Stone Barrington Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An Entertaining Read	This was the first Stone Barrington novel I have ever read and I thought that it was very entertaining.  There were a few too many different uneccessary story lines (as others have said) that may leave a bit to be desiered if you've never read any of the other Barrington books.  However the novel did continue to hold my interest and I did find it to be an entertaining read.  If you are looking for a good light beach reading book this summer this is it!	2002-04-19
US	38648243	R231MF0A18TBLR	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	0	2	N	N	An Excellent Book	I think that this may be one of the most exciting books that I have ever read!  It is a real page turner with twists and turns at every corner.  Some may have thought that it was a tad unbelieveable but so are soap operas yet millions still watch them, to me thats the point of a good novel to get wraped up in a non-reality so to speak. I've given this book to my entire family and they all LOVE it and continue to pass it on. I give it 5 Stars!!!!!!	2002-04-19
