US	38664665	R2P22OBEG7ZBKC	1400060125	94881117	You Belong in a Zoo!: Tales from a Lifetime Spent with Cobras, Crocs, and Other Creatures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great "Behind the Scenes" Account of Zookeeping	\\"You Belong in a Zoo\\" is Peter Brazaitis' tale of his storied career caring for and studying reptiles.  Brazaitis' served as Superintendant of reptiles at the Bronx Zoo and as Curator of the Central Park Zoo, and has also acted as an advocate for endangered reptiles through his work to prevent the illegal importation and killing of these animals.  Brazaitis of course has a wealth of stories to tell - some humorous, some frightening, and some a combination of the two.  After describing 15 foot long King Cobras capable of rising to look a full grown man in the eye, Brazaitis relates the story of his attempt to capture one of these fascinating but deadly creatures by precariously balancing above a pool of crocodiles to reach the ceiling panel where the snake is hiding.  Brazaitis' take on reptiles, and animals in general, is interesting. He obviously has a deep respect and admiration for animals, especially the reptiles he has spent a lifetime studying, but his view of animals seems different from that of some of the more radical animal rights activists.  One could also argue that Brazaitis' work - especially his work with customs officials to stop the smugggling of endangered reptiles - has done more good than some of the antics of the more extreme members of PETA, for example.  Brazaitis writes in an earnest style with some dry wit thrown in, and this style is quite effective in relating the story of his career.  \\"You Belong In a Zoo\\" is an entertaining tale of reptiles and other animals, and an enjoyable autobiography of a man who has obviously \\"found his niche\\" in caring for these creatures.	2005-07-21
US	38664665	R1PJS4RFOW60BO	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent True Life Adventure	You'll have a hard time finding a work of fiction more packed with suspense and plot twists than Robert Kurson's gripping true life adventure.  Kurson masterfully relates the tale of the discovery of a WWII U-Boat off the New Jersey coast, and the obsessive quest of a group of \\"extreme divers\\" to determine it's identity.  The search claims lives early, but the quest for answers continues. As the clues lead only to more confusion, the divers take greater risks, until 2 divers take a huge gamble in a \\"last ditch\\" effort to find the answers that elude them.  Kurson's writing style is richly descriptive, whether he is describing the individuals involved in the search, or relating the sensations and perils of diving to extreme depths.  I came to feel for the divers described, even as I shook my head at the risks they took to fulfill their quest.  Kurson provides a brief but gripping history lesson regarding the U-Boat attacks off the U.S. coast during WWII, a graphic overview of the perils of deep sea diving, and a haunting story of friendships marred by tragedy but cemented by devotion to a dangerous but rewarding pasttime.  \\"Shadow Divers\\" has received excellent reviews, and it deserves every word of praise it has received.	2005-07-18
US	38664665	R2T6MRADZUZD1Z	0716794624	257892248	Tyrannosaurus Sue: The Extraordinary Saga of Largest, Most Fought Over T. Rex Ever Found	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good overview of discovery, Government intervention	Steve Fiffer's \\"Tyrannosaurus Sue\\" is an interesting tale of the discovery of the most complete T-Rex skeleton found up to that point, and the bizarre battle that ensued over the ownership of the find.  The book provides some insight into the world of paleontology (especially the pitfalls of searching on property where boundary lines aren't clear), and details a rather maddening tale of government intervention.  I would have enjoyed more discussion of paleontology, but I understand that that wasn't the purpose of this particular work.  Fiffer's writing style is straightforward to the point of being a bit dry at points, but it's well suited to describing the legal and political manipulations of the story.  An interesting book that will spur interest in reading more about its subject matter.	2005-07-18
US	38664665	R1N669SEKBH78G	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Gripping account of Naval Battle	\\"The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors\\" is a graphic \\"blow by blow\\" account of a WWII battle off the Philippine Coast between a U.S. fleet and a significantly larger fleet of Japanese ships, including two of Japan's largest battleships. Unable to outrun the Japanese fleet, the U.S. sailors attacked with such ferocity that the Japanese believed they were being attacked by a much more powerful fleet.  Hornfischer's account is a graphic account of the horrors of war, and a stirring tribute to the sailors who put themselves in harm's way.  Especially impressive is Hornfischer's list of sources he used in writing \\"Tin Can Sailors\\" - this list includes everything from military films from the WWII era to interviews with the survivors of the engagement.  \\"Tin Can Sailors\\" is a stirring account of heroism and honor amidst the insanity of war.	2005-07-18
US	38664665	R3OTR7IT0CZYR9	0060532505	245306472	You Did What?: Mad Plans and Great Historical Disasters	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Flawed but Entertaining	\\"You Did What?\\" is a collection of tales of decisions that were at best foolhardy and at worst disastrous.  Various authors contribute to this work, and the quality of the chapters varies as a result (there are quite a few examples of bad grammar and poor sentence structure throughout the book).  Overall, the book is entertaining.  Different subjects of varied historical significance are covered, from the Trojan Horse debacle and President Harrison's refusal to wear a coat at his frigid inaugural, to the \\"Heidi Bowl\\" and the bad career decisions of several TV actors.  This is a quirky book that's rather light on any deep historical information or insight, and the mistakes in writing can be disconcerting. Overall, though, it's worth checking out for some lighthearted reading.	2005-07-18
US	38664665	R1LXCTV6AHL3YN	0762726679	917485509	What Were They Thinking?: Really Bad Ideas Throughout History (Humor)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Great light reading	Bruce Felton's \\"What Were They Thinking?\\" is a breezy examination of Strange laws, bizarre beliefs, and downright crazy ideas throughout history.  There's not a lot of detail in any one description of a bad idea, and I agree with another reviewer that some context may have shed a different light on certain ideas that are presented as off-the-wall, but I feel Felton's effort, on balance, is worthwhile.  This book is intended strictly as light reading, and it fits that bill quite nicely.  A typical story is that of a fellow who proposed blowing up the moon, so that the Earth's tilt would change, resulting in constant springlike weather worldwide. I'm not sure which aspect of the story is more astounding - that someone would come up with this idea, or that others would take him seriously enough to present detailed arguments as to why his idea wasn't such a good one.  \\"What Were They Thinking\\" is full of  amusing antecdotes, and is great for some lighthearted reading.	2005-07-18
US	38664665	RNXWNDXU6MAH4	0066620821	906417094	Inviting Disaster: Lessons From the Edge of Technology	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Fascinating, Important Examination of Tech. "Breakdowns"	\\"Inviting Disaster\\" contains some riveting discussions of some famous (and not so famous) technological disasters and their causes.  In many chapters, Chiles describes one \\"system failure\\" (a cold euphemism, perhaps, but fittingly broad for the range of accidents Chiles discusses), and then moves to one or more earlier incidents to draw parallels between the two disasters.  This technique is for the most part effective in showing how various persons involved with complex systems can learn from past mistakes and oversights, and in showing the consequences of, among other things, not heeding these lessons. One of Chiles' main points seems to be that complex \\"systems\\" generally fail because of several small flaws, oversights, or acts of ignorance or carelessness that \\"align\\" in just the right pattern to create a tragic situation.  It is disturbing to think about such seemingly small things as the wrong size bolt, seemingly slight imperfections in building material, or a drowsy employee contributing to some of the disasters described in Chiles' book, but it is also encouraging to consider that a bit more care and attention in the design, building, and operation of complex machines or systems can prevent such tragedies in many situations.  Most of us either work with potentially dangerous machinery in our workplace, or drive a vehicle (arguably as dangerous a machine as any in terms of lives lost to automobile accidents each year) to that workplace.  \\"Inviting Disaster\\" provides food for thought, therefore, not just for operators of \\"complex systems\\" such as airplanes or oil rigs, but for all of us as we go about our daily routines.	2005-05-01
US	38664665	R2EDIX3GQEDYBY	006058565X	366651160	The Cat's Pajamas: Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More solid work from a master storyteller	Over his astounding career, Ray Bradbury has proven himself to be equally adept at creating mind-boggling and thought provoking science fiction (I dread seeing how Hollywood will ruin \\"A Sound of Thunder\\" - it's on of my favorites), and relating intimate tales of everday life and relationships.  \\"The Cat's Pajamas\\", which spans about 60 years(!) of Bradbury stories, is a quite satisfying testament to his versatility.  There may be few \\"stand-out\\" stories in this particular collection, but most of the offerings are solid and enjoyable.  Whether describing human encounters with a race of intelligent and kindly aliens who happen to be giant spiders (guess who the \\"real monsters\\" turn out to be!), or relating a debate between a man and woman over who will claim a stray cat, Bradbury proves once again he's among the best at writing compelling dialogue and weaving a fascinating narrative.  I especially  appreciate the way Bradbury tackles prejudice of all types with clever allegory or gut-wrenching irony, without being preachy. This worked for Rod Serling when he tried to deliver a message in \\"The Twilight Zone\\", and it works to even greater effect for Bradbury.  \\"The Cat's Pajamas\\" is a fitting retrospective of an amazing career.	2005-04-11
US	38664665	R1XQKBISZ3OYDL	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Satisfying King Novel	\\"Bag of Bones\\" is one of Stephen Kings more satisfying works. There are plenty of the frightening scenes one expects from a King novel- so many, in fact, that it just about matches \\"The Shining\\" for scary moments.  In addition to the usual scares, \\"Bag of Bones\\" offers more emotion than some of King's other works.  The main characters are more \\"fleshed out\\" than those in some other King novels, creating a real concern for the protagonists, and a genuine wish for the villains (the flesh and blood ones, at least) to meet a fitting end.  The plot of the story is simple enough at first -  a writer is drawn to an almost forgotten vacation home following the unexpected death of his wife - but again, King offers more in this novel than in some of his earlier works.  There are plenty of twists as the main character investigates unanswered questions about his wife's behavior just before her death, falls for a young single mother, and faces the dangers that confront him as he draws closer to the truth.  I believe Stephen King to be an underrated author (underrated by the critics, at least), and \\"Bag of Bones\\" clearly shows the talent that some overlook or refuse to recognize.	2005-04-11
US	38664665	R22CZ4X5E3QZ8E	0786714018	499922088	Hiding the Elephant: How Magicians Invented the Impossible and Learned to Disappear	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fascinating exploration of magic history.	Jim Steinmeyer's \\"Hiding the Elephant\\" is a captivating exploration of the development of illusions from the late 1800's to the early 1900's.  Steinmeyer jumps from describing one magician to expounding on another in a manner that may be disconcerting at first, but he ties the exploits of these characters together in a manner that turns out to be quite deft. Steinmeyer's discussion of how various illusions were created and performed is interesting, although perhaps somewhat upsetting to some current magicians (most illusions are, as Steinmeyer suggests, based on a few basic precepts).  Even more interesting are the characters who created and fought over these illusions, and Steinmeyer describes these conjurers quite nicely.  <br />    A magician who created an illusion in the era Steinmeyer describes faced a dilemma - once he presented an illusion, other magicians were likely to discern how the effect was achieved, and copy it.  If the effect were patented, the secret of the effect was available to the general public - an even worse situation in the minds of most illusionists.  The way in which various magicians handled this dilemma is a major subject of \\"Hiding the Elephant\\".  Some magicians would team up, some would campaign against each other, but it seems that they were all linked together by their craft.  Another point Steinmeyer drives home is the talent involved in creating illusions.  The magicians described in \\"Hiding the Elephant\\" employed understandings of optics, physics, and psychology to deceive their audiences, usually without any training in these areas.  Those magicians who succeeded also understood changing social moods. Sawing a woman in half, for instance, was in part a reaction to the growing suffrage movement, and some feminist leaders of the day were invited to be assistants in the new illusion. <br />     Steinmeyer's treatment of Houdini is especially interesting.  Houdini isn't given the attention one would expect from a book covering theera in which he performed, and this alone is noteworthy.  The coverage Houdini gets is not what one would expect, either.  Steinmeyer points out that Houdini was at best a mediocre illusionist (even the disappearing elephant illusion referred to in the title, when performed by Houdini, received only a lukewarm response).  Steinmeyer points out that Houdini could be petty and unfair in his criticism of others, especially in his book discrediting the magician from which he took his name.  This isn't to say that Steinmeyer doesn't admire Houdini or respect his talent as a showman or escape artist.  It seems that Steinmeyer simply wants to place Houdini \\"side by side\\" with the other magicians and escape artists of the era, instead of singling Houdini out for praise as many others do. <br />  Jim Steinmeyer is a talented illusion designer, and his love for the craft shows in his exploration of its history.  \\"Hiding the Elephant\\" is a worthwhile read, even for those who aren't fans of magic.  In fact, it may change the minds of some who feel that way.	2005-04-06
US	38664665	RRRRKK9IFMW5F	1400032806	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Well Done Study of Religious Extremism	\\"Under The Banner of Heaven\\" isn't a book I would have selected to read if browsing a bookstore or library, but since I received it as a gift, I decided to give it a chance.  I found it to be a fascinating, if disturbing, study of how religion, like any other means of \\"making sense of the universe\\" or just coping with life, can be horribly twisted with tragic results. Krakauer relates the story of the murder of a woman and her child, and the search for and capture of their killers , in a straightforward style, without any traces of sensationalism.  More noteworthy, though, is the deft manner in which Krakauer uses the case as a starting point for an examination of the splinter groups from the \\"main\\" LDS church.  Krakauer provides a concise history of the Mormon Church, from its founding, to its move into the \\"mainstream\\" (with its rejection of polygamy), to the rise of fringe groups who feel that this move was a detriment to the church, if not downright sinful.  There's a lot of information here, and Krakauer does a masterful job of presenting it.  I appreciate Krakauer's evenhanded analysis of the disturbing questions that are raised when extremists claim divine approval of violent acts.  Krakauer is apparently an agnostic (I believe he refers to himself as a \\"searcher\\" somewhere - if not, I think it was a similar phrase), but his discussions of faith are very evenhanded.  For every troubling question Krakauer poses regarding the extremist elements in the Mormon faith, he poses the same questions about other faiths, and even about other philosophies that would not be considered religions.  Again, the concept that belief systems can be twisted to violent ends isn't limited here to religious ideas. Everyone, in the end, has faith in something, and this faith can be twisted.  \\"Devout atheists\\" - those not content to not believe, but who seem to want to preach their ideas with the zeal of a 19th century fire-and-brimstone evangelist - will, I suspect, be disappointed with the care Krakauer takes not to paint all believers with the same brush.  Many believers may be uncomfortable with the subject matter.  As a relatively conservative Christian, I feel that those who reject this book for either reason are missing out on a fascinating and thought provoking read.	2005-03-27
US	38664665	R1XP2AAR9DVVXG	0743203984	503232720	Flu: The Story Of The Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus that Caused It	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fascinating and Timely	Gina Kolata's \\"Flu\\" is a concise book packed with information about the 1918 flu pandemic, later efforts to study the virus by finding preserved samples of the virus, and the chances of such a virus spreading again.  Kolata vividly relates the tragic toll of the virus in the midst of an already devastating World War.  Her description of the controversial decision to try to obtain preserved specimens of flu infected tissue from the arctic may be the most gripping part of the book - it's a well told real life adventure with real consequences.  Finally Kolata moves to a disturbing but timely discussion of later outbreaks of the virus, and the implications they hold for another outbreak of the magnitude of the 1918 tragedy.  This is a disturbing but important and informative work, as well as a fascinating read.	2005-03-27
US	38664665	REY44E5GVQRNU	0393019624	379898487	The Cruelest Miles: The Heroic Story of Dogs and Men in a Race Against an Epidemic	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Gripping race against time and the elements	\\"The Cruelest Miles\\" is an excellent recounting of an incredible race to save the citizens of Nome in the mid-1920's.  The Salisbury cousins do an admirable job of covering the sled-dog relay, and relating the dangers involved in the relay.  Since the story of the relay, while compelling, is a relatively quick one to recount, the authors \\"fill-in\\" with some Alaskan history - especially that of Nome - and with descriptions of how the natives of Alaska survived in such a seemingly harsh environment.  The political machinations that went into deciding how to deliver the serum (by plane or by sled relay) are also thoroughly covered.  \\"The Cruelest Miles\\" is a fitting tribute the heroic men and dogs who helped to save Nome.    (Special thanks to the reviewer who actually met Leonhard Seppala - great review!)	2005-03-07
US	38664665	R3M1TCW268YCHV	0609807978	277567020	Owls Aren't Wise & Bats Aren't Blind: A Naturalist Debunks Our Favorite Fallacies About Wildlife	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Book on North American Wildlife	You'd be hard pressed to find a book more packed with fascinating information that Warner Shedd's \\"Owls Aren't Wise And Bats Aren't Blind\\".  Each chapter provides a concise description of the characteristics and habits of a particular animal (or family of animals), and, as the book's subtitle suggests, debunks some common myths about North American wildlife.  Shedd's writing style is earnest and straightforward, and is perfectly suited for this type of book. Shedd deftly addresses controversial issues in a reasonable manner, and imparts a wealth of information about some common wildlife.  A chapter on snakes would have been welcome, although I'm sure a discussion of the myths surrounding snakes would fill an entire book on it's own.  This is an information packed book that has appeal for a wide age range.	2005-03-07
US	38664665	R33S7CDRD7ISSW	0060920882	567357221	Operation Drumbeat: Germany's U-Boat Attacks Along the American Coast in World War II	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Tells an important, forgotten WWII Story.	Michael Gannon meticulously documents an underreported element of our nation's involvement in WWII.  It's amazing that more hasn't been written about the attacks by German U-boats along the US east coast, but Gannon's book seems to be one of only a relative few that documents this aspect of the war.  The most striking fact that sticks in my mind from this book is how slow the U.S. was to react to the attacks, finally taking measures against the attacks only after constant prodding by British intelligence, which was, by Gannon's account, much more advanced in tracking U-Boat movements, and quite willing to share this information with the U.S. despite the stubborness of some in the U.S. command.  Gannon's suggestion that the U-Boat attacks were more damaging to the war effort than the Pearl Harbor attack is provocative, and seems to underestimate the emotional impact of December 7th, but Gannon clearly shows the heavy damage the U-Boat attacks had on the war effort until the U.S. command did its part to repel such attacks.  All in all, a worthy effort to document an under-reported aspect of the WWII struggle.	2005-01-31
US	38664665	R2SX4BV9M12DVD	0306811677	17462845	The Bedford Boys: One American Town's Ultimate D-day Sacrifice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fitting Tribute	In \\"The Bedford Boys\\", Alex Kershaw gives a human face to the anonymous soldiers we've seen killed in countless WWII films.  I had forgotten that the story of the Bedford soldiers was at least part of the inspiration for \\"Saving Private Ryan\\", and I agree with the implication made by some other reviewers that the true story would have made an even more powerful film.  \\"The Bedford Boys\\" is touching, upsetting, and, when Kershaw describes the tribute finally paid to Bedford's fallen heroes, ultimately uplifting.  Without suggesting that the U.S. should not have participated in WWII or the D-Day invasion, Kershaw dramatically points out the sacrifices that have been made by soldiers, their loved ones, and their entire communities to protect freedom in this country, and around the world.	2005-01-30
US	38664665	R2SES5FVUNROCD	0425193721	540839017	The Sea Hunters II	Books	4	0	1	N	N	More Solid Nonfiction from Cussler	\\"The Sea Hunters II\\"  follows the same pattern as \\"The Sea Hunters\\".  Cussler presents a vignette that describes or speculates on the final moments of a ship or other artifact, and then describes the efforts of NUMA to locate the item in question.  This combination of forgotten history and adventure is well written, and is easily as entertaining as Cussler's excellent fiction.  Cussler approaches his subject matter with just the right touch of reverence for those souls lost in the wrecks he describes, along with a great sense of humor regarding his recovery attempts that did not go as planned.  I hope a \\"Sea Hunters III\\"  will be in the works at some time!	2005-01-02
US	38664665	R1IDCQLWQLU8RK	907167634X	558026252	Politically Incorrect: The Emerging Faith Factor in American Politics	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Faith Factors and Free Speech	There seems to be a movement in the US to silence any political opinions that are informed in any way by religious faith, especially if that faith is a Conservative version of Christianity.  Those who would silence people of faith from speaking out politically may be a very small group, but their numbers may be growing, and they will certainly become more vocal as President Bush begins his second term. This is one of the key issues Reed addresses in \\"Politically Incorrect\\", a book that is timely in many regards even though it was written about a decade ago.  Reed points out that the great social movements of the last few centuries had a strong religious dimension, and in many cases were spearheaded by persons motivated by their religious faith.  Reed goes on to lay down a common sense prescription for some of the ills he sees in society, and effectively argues that the right to pursue these goals should not be denied to people simply because they are guided in part by religious faith.  Some humor inserted somehow would have been welcome in Reed's work, but his book is otherwise a solid effort worthy of the reader's time.	2005-01-02
US	38664665	RT0WPY7SZTH0S	0743480694	838384032	The Sea Hunters: True Adventures with Famous Shipwrecks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great True Adventure/History	Clive Cussler's adventures that he relates in \\"The Sea Hunters\\" are as fascinating as any of the fictional adventures in his novels - at least when one factors in that the \\"Sea Hunters\\" adventures are true.  After vignettes that speculate on the likely final moments of a ship or other item of historical interest, Cussler describes the efforts of NUMA to locate these artifacts.  These efforts are alternately dangerous, frustrating, and humorous, and Cussler's descriptions of them are consistently entertaining.  \\"The Sea Hunters\\" provides a great adventure read, and also serves as a reminder of some forgotten or underappreciated historical episodes.	2005-01-02
US	38664665	R2TVGL56DB8CVK	0684827581	118435431	ACTIVE FAITH: How Christians are Changing the Face of American Politics	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Persuasive defense of Conservative Activism	Ralph Reed's \\"Active Faith\\" is effective in refuting the attacks against Christian Conservative \\"activism\\" (i.e. speaking out about issuses just as all other Americans have the right to do) that seem to be on the rise recently (especially after the re-election of President Bush). For that reason, the book is timely, even though it was written about a decade ago.  Reed's critics may not like him any better after reading his book, but his fair minded critics would have to give him credit for being much more fair and thoughtful than those who demonize Reed and other \\"activist\\" Christian Conservatives would have us believe.	2005-01-02
US	38664665	R2U5JE1J1C8QGQ	0061098787	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not Hillerman's best, but still solid and entertaining.	Tony Hillerman is such an accomplished writer, it's understandable that some reviewers are somewhat disappointed by this effort.  Hillerman does an excellent job of presenting details of American Indian culture without resorting to the preachy tone some \\"politically correct\\" authors would use, and these details are missed in this novel.  This novel also seems to lack some of the plot twists of some of Hillerman's earlier works-it winds up reading more like a straightforward crime story than the mysteries Hillerman has created in the past. These criticisms aside, I enjoyed the novel.  It's a quicker read than some of Hillerman's earlier works, yet it still throws in a couple of twists. The characters Hillerman has created are interesting, and it's enjoyable to read another novel involving them.  In short, the novel has its faults, but on balance I enjoyed it, and I look forward to reading Hillerman's new novel soon.	2004-12-13
US	38664665	R2AFCXP10ZKNYM	074323572X	262640815	Operatives, Spies, and Saboteurs: The Unknown Story of the Men and Women of World War II's OSS	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Valuable record of the experience of OSS members.	\\"Operatives, Spies and Saboteurs\\"  is most likely not the most detailed or comprehensive work describing the contributions of the OSS to the war effort, but it is valuable and entertaining.  Any record of the firsthand experiences of WWII veterans is, of course, extremely valuable.  The effort O'Donnell put into recording such experiences shows through clearly, and O'Donnell presents the stories of the OSS agents he interviewed in an entertaining, highly readable manner.  \\"Operatives, Spies, and Saboteurs\\" is a fine overview of the OSS, and a much appreciated record of the firsthand experiences of some \\"unsung heroes\\" of WWII.	2004-12-13
US	38664665	R2A50WI6YO2DGM	0385479565	905671096	The Hot Zone: The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating and Terrifying	\\"The Hot Zone\\" reads very much like a Michael Crichton novel, but the horrifying events it describes are all too real.  Richard Preston graphically describes the effects of the ebola virus on the human body, traces the discovery of the different strains of the virus, and recounts a terrifying close call with the virus that took place on the outskirts of Washington D.C.  Preston's style of writing may be a bit melodramatic for some subjects, but given the horrific nature of ebola, the dramatic tone seems appropriate.  I disagree with some of the \\"our place in the universe\\" comments by Preston and some he interviewed for the book, but this doesn't detract from the effectiveness of the book.  This book is not for the squeamish, but highly recommended for those interested in the subject.	2004-09-12
US	38664665	R26REST7EQN9XA	0142001686	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A Stirring Tribute to a Great Leader	I agree 100% with the other reviewers who have praised this book.  Peggy Noonan's book serves as a concise but relatively thorough biography of Reagan, an informative explanation of the influences that guided his decisions before and during his political career, and a spirited and insightful defense of some of Reagan's controversial actions (controversial, at least, to those who Reagan called &quot;our liberal friends&quot; who &quot;know so many things that are not so&quot;).  Plenty of funny, enlightening, and touching anecdotes help to make this a great tribute to one of our Nation's greatest leaders.	2004-07-14
US	38664665	R3TCVXTNVT90ZL	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Not sure what to make of this book	First off, I find it surprising that this story was not told sooner, as it involved a future U.S. president (I suppose much of the information was not available until recently).  I give Bradley credit for telling the story of the airmen who gave their lives in service to our country, but I'm not sure what to make of Bradley's commentary on U.S. policy before and during World War II.  It's true that atrocities happen in war, and the actions of our military should not be whitewashed.  It seems wrong to me, however, to try to draw moral equivalency between the aggressors, and those who fight that aggression at great cost to themselves so that others may enjoy freedom.  I also reject Bradley's suggestions that all atrocities committed by the Japanese were a direct result of earlier U.S. actions, however wrong those actions may have been (Bradley's description of the Japanese corruption of the Samauri code seems to contradict his own assertions regarding this point).  I rate &quot;Flyboys&quot; 3 stars for telling a story that should have been told earlier, but I have reservations about the revisionist history in the book.	2004-07-14
US	38664665	R1H9BLVWH8SW3I	0767906926	782431251	Orphans Preferred: The Twisted Truth and Lasting Legend of the Pony Express	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Facts Separated From Myth	The first chapter of &quot;Orphans Preferred&quot; cleverly drives home what seems to be the central point of the book: it's extremely difficult, if not impossible, to separate the &quot;true&quot; Pony Express from the Pony Express of our American mythology.  As daunting as this task is, Corbett, on balance, does an excellent job of presenting what facts are available, as well as describing the myths of the Pony Express with good humor instead of the self-righteous outrage many authors would stoop to. The result is a fascinating book that informs and entertains.  Some may call what Corbett does in &quot;Orphans Preferred&quot; revisionist history (the term even turns up in the book's dust jacket).  I feel that this is unfair, as &quot;revisionist history&quot; suggests twisting history to a particular (usually political) agenda.  Corbett does just the opposite by objecively presenting the facts and the myths regarding the brief but fascinating history of the Pony Express.	2004-07-13
US	38664665	R129USPTSILLP4	0684856883	66298239	To Conquer the Air : The Wright Brothers and the Great Race for Flight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Wright Brothers and their peers, described in depth	The Wright Brothers did not achieve their historic accomplishments in a vacuum, without the advice and support of other pioneers in the quest for human flight.  I suppose that this should be common knowledge, but I was unaware of the contributions of Samuel Langley and others to the study of flight before reading James Tobin's remarkable book.  Before his in-depth description of the Wright Brothers work that led to the first manned flight, Tobin describes in some detail Langley's investigations into flight, including one ill-fated attempt at a manned flight that would have beaten the Wrights by just several days.  Tobin goes on to describe the race for accomplishments in the area of human flight, noting such worthy competitors as Alexander Graham Bell and Glenn Hammond Curtiss.  Tobin's book is thus both a touching tribute to the Wright Brothers, as well as a spirited salute to their friends and competitors (some of whom were the same people).  Details such as the power struggle within their church may seem irrelevant to some, but to me they provided a richness to Tobin's book that is no doubt missing from many other works on the Wright Brothers. An excellent book, one of the rare works I plan on reading again at some point.	2004-07-13
US	38664665	R2430DA8L47678	0060956151	530120732	Unlocking the Sky: Glenn Hammond Curtiss and the Race to Invent the Airplane	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Who is Curtiss? I'm still not sure!	Glenn Hammond Curtiss appears to be a fascinating and underrated participant in the development of human flight. Unfortunately, I don't feel I know much more about him after reading &quot;Unlocking The Sky&quot; than I did before.  For whatever reason, Seth Shulman seems more interested in attacking the Wright Brothers (apparrently for what could be considered simply protecting their ideas and inventions) than in describing Curtiss's acccomplishments.  I've seen many errors and unfair comments pointed out in other reviews by folks with much more knowledge of aeronautics and flight history than I have. To this list I'll add (or point out again, if its already been covered) Shulman's constant mocking of the Wrights for some of their ideas that became &quot;obsolete&quot; some time later.  Should we also mock Alexander Graham Bell because we moved on to dial telephones, touch tone phones, cordless phones, and then cell phones? Or more to the point, should we mock Curtiss for his courageous and historic flight over New York because such a flight became routine in a relatively short time?  2 stars for what information one can gleam about Curtiss from this book.  No more because of the bizarre Wright bashing.  This being said, I recommend this book along with James Tobin's &quot;To Conquer the Air&quot; (instead of using the &quot;instead of&quot; option), for two differing views of the Wright Brothers.	2004-07-13
