US	38776718	RBZDB1P2IQ1S7	0439409713	518053192	Lady of Palenque: Flower of Bacal, Mesoamerica, A.D. 749 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	It really isn't THAT bad...	I started this book way back in March upon its release, and I wasn't entirely anticipating reading it after I heard that it wasn't that great. But I decided to give it a try and it didn't end well, I didn't get to page 40 before I gave up. I didn't pick the book up again until late June when I was trying to catch up on all the books I own that I haven't read. And I'm glad I picked this one up again. Sure, I stopped again around page 100 but I finally finished the book last night after deciding 5 months was enough...I have to finish this book. <br />The book is actually very well done. Unlike the other Royal Diaries, the writing really is authentic to the Mayan era it is set in. In books such as Weetamoo and Sondok, it is obvious the author is trying to re-construct the writing style of the character's culture & time, but in Lady of Palenque, the writing really is convincing. The entire book reads lyrically and poetically and the culture of the Maya is deeply rooted in the Lady's words. This can be both a good and a bad thing. While it makes the book seem more real and more like it would be an account of the time, it must be kept in mind that middle school kids are the people reading these books. And your average middle schooler isn't a Mayan scholar, so most of the references and cultural items in this book are going to be unfamiliar and will confuse the reader for there are whole paragraphs that center on references to Mayan culture, forcing the reader to re-read the paragraph over and over again to try and put the Lady's words into today's understanding. <br />I think something that does bother some people is the fact that the author keeps switching from authentic Mayan names to English translations. For example, one page you'll have Lady Palmtrees and the next you'll have an elongated authentic Mayan name. And unfortunately, there are no pronunciation guides so the reader has to sound out the name as they think it should be said (we do get the hint, on the firstpage, that the 'x' makes a 'sh' sound). And, let's face it, sometimes the English versions of the names seem like a joke. For example, Lord Cocoa Beans. It just doesn't sound serious. <br />There are some problems with this book, but I think it was overall a decent book. The story isn't really that exciting, though. Basically, the Lady spends 30 pages in Lakamha (Palenque) and then travels all across the Yucatan peninsula and the coast before arriving at the closing of the book in Xukpi (Copan). There are stops along the way, such as in Mutal, a major city of the area, and an unexpected hurrican leaves the traveling parties stranded on islands off the coast. The plot is basically that Lady of Palenque has been chosen to marry the king of Copan, Fire Keeper, to provide a relationship between the cities of Palenque and Copan against enemy forces (we find out in the historical note that this was done by many cities at the time for the same reason). Many of the characters aren't fully formed, and rather symbolize different traits. But this is faulty, for it is hard to feel the Lady's pain when a close friend of her's is lost at sea during a hurricane for he was never 3-dimensional character to the reader. The only truly formed character is the Lady herself, who is not easily hated but is also not the most enjoyable Royal Diaries central character. <br />Basically, this book does have faults but it also does have many good things about it. I think one reviewer said 'this is not a Royal Diaries book'. Well, I have to agree. I think this book could have been a lone novel, because, unlike the other 16 books in the series at this point, this book really does transport you back to the time and place of the character as none of the others do and the writing is so different that it easily could be excluded from the other more non-accurate writing styles of the other diaries. <br />A decent read, though not the best of the series. And give it some time, I'd advise you.	2004-07-13
US	38776718	R1O1MMS4B52HYO	0689835906	127191876	Beast	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Different, Not As Captivating as the Original Tale	Well I finally finished this book after reading it on and off for like...two years. It wasn't what I expected and in fact it did not meet my original expectations. I think the story could have been developed a little bit better and there not being too much detail on little things such as gardens and the surroundings. Yes, description is needed, but, at time it seemed as if this whole book was just a story of descriptions of the surroundings Orasmyn saw on his journey across Europe and Asia. I liked the twist of this story, though, I will admit that. The setting is more exotic for most of the journey w/ Persian palaces and the Indian wildnerness. The story explains how the Beast became so cruel and nasty, not because of his personality, but because of his new lion-like instincts. There were new characters here. Gone are Lumiere and Cogsworth and in their place is simply a fox, Chou Chou. The characters are well-developed and you can identify with most of them. The writer did a decent job here but I feel as if there was something missing, something that didn't make this story as magical as the real one.	2004-03-27
US	38776718	R2ISITTLWCJW5B	0439409713	518053192	Lady of Palenque: Flower of Bacal, Mesoamerica, A.D. 749 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	What Happened!?	I love this series, I love every book in it, I own every book in it, and I read them over...and over...and over. But I may never pick this book up again. I have yet even to finish it. I CAN'T finish it. The culture and the history and informational background of this book is great and very original. But my Social Studies textbook reads the same as this book does. I can't keep my attention on this book for more than a page. Honestly, there is no feeling to this book. If I were King Fire Keeper, I'd hang myself for having to marry a wife like Lady of Palenque. (...) This isn't a diary it's like a biography. And a bad one at that. I enjoyed Kirwan's earlier attempt, Victoria, very much and I found it very good even though other fans were disappointed. But I wouldn't recommend this book at all. The writing is bland, your focus will wary, and entries go on and on about NOTHING. I remember one entry where there was a paragraph devoted to the description of a bridge. Who cares. And you'll find that although Kirwan makes the writing very Mayan and very authentic, I don't think she remembers that this is a book for 10 year olds. It makes no sense. Unless you're a nut about Mayan culture this diary will honestly not make any sense to you most of the time. Not even the glossary can help you after the first few entries. Don't waste almost 11 dollars on this book unless you collect the entire series. Otherwise, get it from the library...if you dare.	2004-03-24
US	38776718	R315CKW8083FX8	0439210380	139510473	Look to the Hills: The Diary of Lozette Moreau, a French Slave Girl, New York Colony 1763 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Original, Interesting, and *yay* French!	I was looking forward to this book because I relatively enjoy McKissack's books and this subject seemed very original. I read this before I decided to start Lady of Palenque (don't touch Lady of Palenque I beg of you) and I managed to get it done in about 2 days. The diary is enjoyable with it's sad moments, its fun moments, and its periods where you have to stop and think, such as when the subject of Zettie being free rather than being free of Ree comes up. Some parts of this diary dragged a little but they were made up for soon enough because there was plenty of excitement in this diary from the swordfights to the unexpected arrival of Ree's abusive brother, Pierre, and of course the entire flight from Aix-en-Provence to Spain. The main characters, Zettie and Ree, are really very inspirational for girls. Ree is a woman but she is also very in control of herself and a fine athlete. And Zettie, although a slave, is highly intelligent and mannered and quite a linguist. Some characters did annoy me, I'll admit, and others I wondered why they were even so vital. And the man that Ree chooses in the end baffled me. He really didn't seem like her type...Not at all. But I guess it goes to show what the whole book is about, how all people are equal no matter your race or background and that everybody should come together and love one another and stop hating. An average Dear America book, I would recommend it, but there are others in the series that I could say were a little better.	2004-03-24
US	38776718	RYUO0P9B6T14W	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surpasses the beauty of the painting it was based upon	This book has been popular for years and after seeing the trailer for the upcoming movie, I decided I had to read this book. And I'm glad I did. The story is not a complicated one nor a lengthy one that drags on and on. Instead it is a story of one girl, Griet, who simply works at a maid at the Vermeer house in Delft, and turns the household upside down. <BR>The daughter of a now blind tilemaker, Griet is to work at the Vermeer's to take in money for the household. Every Sunday she may come home. But no one expects the damage that Griet will bring to the Vermeers. Because of her the house is divided. Because of her they are forced to constantly take care of her, A MAID, because of lust-hungry men. Because of her they have to put her before their more skilled maid and keep her secrets safe. And because of her Vermeer painted his most famous peice that entrances people today. <BR>The book, as a whole, was very good. All of the characters came to life. Even each of the many Vermeer children had their characteristics from the mischevious and cruel Cornelia to the more sympathetic and sweet Maertge. Catharina was the huffy wife, always pregnant and always in a bad mood when Griet was around. Maria Thins had two sides to her. At one time she too was cruel and unjust but after she is to keep the secret that Griet is helping Vermeer in his studio with his paintings and mixing his paints, she realizes Griet may be an asset to the household and turns into a more sweet woman. Outside of the Vermeer house there was Griet's family: her mother, father, sister and brother. Her sister was a likeable character, that is until she died of the plague. Her brother on the other hand just seemed like a whiny teenager, overworked and doing things he should not be doing with girls. And then there was Griet's suitor: Pieter (the son), who worked along his father, Pieter (the butcher). I didn't really like either of them. Pieter (the son) would never leave Griet alone and constantly tried totake control of her. He wouldn't let her go and wouldn't stop chasing her. And it wasn't just that but his attitude just wasn't nice at all. His father was similiar, trying to push Griet into marriage with his son. <BR>The story was very well-written. The descriptions of everything from the Meat Hall to even Griet's descriptions of mixing the paints all brought beauty to the story. The dialogue was good and nothing ever dragged on. <BR>But many stories have sad endings. I didn't expect the ending to turn out the way it did but in the last few pages I liked it afterall.<BR>I recommend this book for all. A delightful read.	2004-01-01
US	38776718	RD2RJI2HGU6I0	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unexpectedly wonderful read	When I picked up this book, I didn't buy it. Instead, I borrowed it from someone. I wasn't sure how I would like it so I didn't want to spend my money on it quite yet. I read the first 2 or 3 chapters and put it down, but a few weeks ago I decided to pick it up again and I couldn't stop! This was one of the best books I have read in awhile. Beautifully written with eloquent passages and excellent descriptions, 'Memoirs of a Geisha' tells the story of a unique girl, Chiyo (later Sayuri) from an obscure Japanese town who is sold into slavery and ends up at an okiya to be trained as a geisha. Through many obstacles, such as the closing of the geisha districts in WWII and the horrible nagging of Hatsumomo, one of the premier and most infamous geishas in Kyoto who Sayuri happens to share an okiya with. <BR>I personally enjoyed this book very much. All of the characters were well formed and the story never seemed to get too boring or strenuous. The exotic setting was a change, as was the subject. I loved to read of the descriptions of Sayuri's eventful days as a geisha-in-training under Mameha and of Hatsumomo's sinister actions that plagued the book (and made it more fun). You could feel Sayuri's sadness when she discovered her sister's fate as a Kyoto prostitute, her happiness when she dreamed of the Chairman, her secret love, and her helplessness whenever she was punished due to Hatsumomo's actions. <BR>I would say my favorite character was Mameha, although I enjoyed Hatsumomo very much and even felt somewhat sad when she, a premier geisha, was kicked out of the okiya and later became an obscure prostitute to survive. <BR>There were some problems I had with this book. When plots and plans were explained, they seemed too complex and were a little too hard to understand, such as when Mameha explained the distribution of monies at the okiya or even towards the end when the Chairman explained his actions and plans on how to achieve Sayuri's affections. It could have been explained in simpler terms. <BR>But all in all I enjoyed reading this book and recommend it to all. The author does a wonderful job at disguising his voice as a woman's and no, this book is not just some women's reading group book. If anyone is looking for a good book to read I recommend this one.	2003-12-29
US	38776718	R3N85W2B8GJH9V	0439215986	898249194	The Royal Diaries:  Victoria, May Blossom of Britannia, England 1829	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent debut for Kirwan	I read this book about two years ago and since then I am not ashamed to admit that I have re-read it and looked through it continuously over the years. (...) It's not the best of the series but it is VERY well written and very throroughly researched and an interesting read. I literally felt like I was reading right from Victoria's journals. I can only imagine how much research went into this book! There are so many facts and so many characters and so many feelings that you go through throughout this stunning and beautiful book. I love the Royal Diaries: have them all, have websites, get them all as soon as they get out, contact authors frequently for updates, etc. I'm not just saying this because I love the series, I really did enjoy this book very much. I do recommend it, because unlike other books, it's not the author's fault that Victoria may not have had as an exciting of a childhood as say Eleanor or Elizabeth did. I personally think that Victoria's childhood is the most like kids' today. I mean, when's the last time you went hunting on a safari w/ Nzingha or was married off at 13 to a boy you never met. (...) Give this book a try. You may like it, you may not. But I think the author's gift for writing and eloquent speech makes up for the somewhat ordinary but traumatic childhood of Victoria.<br />There were a few glitches I'd like to share, but I think these are the publisher's fault. <br />On the family tree in the appendices, were it gives the number of George III's children in a small side-box, 'George' is spelled 'Georgre'. Also, there is a character in the tree called 'George of Cumberaland, King of Hanover'. 'Cumberaland' should be 'Cumberland'. And Mary Adelaide (she's in the upper right of the tree) had the dates 1883-1897. She was born much earlier than that. Her brother right next to her has the birth year of 1819. Over a 60-year difference. (...)	2003-12-24
US	38776718	R2OZZFOI1FMJWF	0385490461	228818001	Seraglio: A Novel	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fascinating Look into A Most Influential Woman	Judging from the reviews for this book here on amazon.com, my expectations for this book weren't very high. However, last week I needed something to read and got this book from my library, not expecting a wonderful read but at least something to get me through the next few days or weeks. Was I wrong. <BR>Seraglio is an excellent book. The story centers on Aimee du Buc de Rivery, a refined young lady on her way home to Martinique from France whose ship is plundered by pirates. The thirteen-year-old fair beauty is presented to the bey of Algiers, who presents Aimee to the Ottoman sultan. Refined and educated in the ways of the Western world Aimee is renamed Nakshidil and enters her golden prison. The Seraglio. At first, Aimee is stubborn and refuses to follow the rhythms and rules that operate the harem, a world within itself. However, she soon learns that if she behaves that way longer, she will meet a horrible fate. And so Nakshidil sets out to be educated in the ways of the harem and Islam, mastering the many forms of dance and seduction and how to please the sultan both sexually and through cooking and charm. The narrator of the story is Nakshidil's closest friend, the black eunuch, Tulip. Eventually, Nakshidil is called to the sultan's bed but soon enough, the sultan is dead and Nakshidil must set out for the Old Palace, a miserable palace set-aside for the harem girls after their sultan dies and a new sultan moves in with his own harem. Nakshidil believes her career is over but the new sultan, Selim III, is enthralled and enchanted with Nakshidil's French ways, her French ideas, and her French cooking. Instead of bedding Nakshidil, the two converse for hours on end each night about Western ideas. However, the idea of Western ideas entering the Ottoman Empire strikes fear into the hearts of many of the Turkish people, endangering both Selim and Nakshidil. And so the story unfolds, an epic of danger, deceit, murder, and a glitzy and extravagant life showered in satin and jewels. I enjoyed reading Tulip's account of his closest friend and the only harem girl who showed him compassion, Nakshidil. <BR>There were some glitches in the plot. Sometimes the huge gaps were puzzling, sometimes years at a time were skipped over which meant we lost that much of Nakshidil's life. Sometimes characters arrived and disappeared quickly and often characters could be confused do to their infrequent mentioning and their titles they were known by. Their were other little things, such as Nakshidil corresponding with her cousin, Rose de Beauharnais (the later Josephine Bonaparte), which probably would not have happened but it lended to the plot of the story and depicted a more sneaky and secretive side of Nakshidil.<BR>But overall, the story was wonderful. You really did feel for the characters. You can't help but feel sad at the point of Peretsu's shocking and barbaric death or hate the despicable Aysha, Nakshidil's lifetime rival in the harem. You feel for the characters and their losses and loves and emotions. Also, the descriptions were wonderful. Everything down to the tiling of the harem floors was described and most extravagantly Nakshidil's outfits were described from her emerald earrings to her blue kaftans to her high-heeled bath shoes. The settings and the language also made the book enjoyable. The exotic and sultry harem and the new Turkish vocabulary all made the story more cultural and enjoyable. <BR>I liked this book a lot and was happy I did get it after all. I finished it in only six days...I couldn't put it down!	2003-12-03
US	38776718	R1U65AMKD64CLD	0609810219	495849844	Mary, Queen of France: The Tudor Princesses	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent portrait of the famed Tudor beauty	Earlier this summer I read Jean Plaidy's two re-issues (Lady in the Tower &amp; The Rose Without A Thorn) and I immensely enjoyed them and now I realize why readers praise Jean Plaidy so much. Her books are wonderful and addicting and best of all they cover my favorite things to read about: the past royals of Europe. I leapt at the opportunity to read this new Plaidy re-issue, Mary, Queen of France, and bought it on Halloween, a few days after its release. The story is Mary Tudor's, the younger sister of Henry VIII, not to be confused with `Bloody' Mary I, Henry's daughter. She and her brother were the best of friends (which is disturbing considering the monster Henry became in his reign) and court life dazzled the young and beautiful princess, said to be the most beautiful in the world. However, royal life has its cons and Mary's unfortunate fate is to be married to the prince of Castile, Charles, who is younger than she is. However, Mary has recently caught the eye of Charles Brandon, Henry's good friend, and he has done the same back. But their relationship is forbidden, and Henry does his best to keep the two apart for the time being, aware of their love. <BR>     Meanwhile, in France, Louise of Savoy is raising her second child, Francois, to be the next king of France. With her close friend Jeanne and her trinity (herself, Francois, and her loveable daughter, Marguerite), Louise plots to get her son on the throne somehow, no matter what it costs her. But the French king, Louis XII is determined not to let Francois get to the throne (or rather his wives/advisors). He discards his first wife, Jeanne, to take on Anne of Brittany, a strong and fruitful woman. But all she bears is a daughter, Claude, before she too dies. With a small glint of hope, Louis turns his eyes towards England for their young and beautiful princess: Mary Tudor. <BR>Mary is only too happy to know that her betrothal to Charles of Castile is broken off. But the thought of marrying the ailing and old Louis makes her shudder. Mary wants to marry Charles, but it cannot be, and she packs for France. The most important thing she brings with her is her brother's promise to marry whomever she wants upon Louis' death. And so the tale begins of deceit and treason at the French court, a forbidden love, a tempting Francois, and then story of two people who challenged an empire all for love. <BR>     I really did enjoy this book. For months I anticipated the release and I will admit it did take me a month to finally finish it (read on and off) but I was happy it lasted as long as it did. The characters came across very lively and 3-dimensional. I myself loved the characters of Marguerite and Francois. Mary on the other hand I found rather selfish, wishing her own husband dead and only thinking of herself before her entire kingdom. Henry came across in his true light: despotic, cruel, and selfish. But also lavish and loving of his close family, though he did want his father dead so he could get to the throne (Henry and Mary think alike it seems...). I loved the story and the setting, but I did have some regrets. Though I liked hearing of Francois' history and his family's past, the book was after all Mary's story and I don't think 60 pages was needed about the French dauphin/king and the `trinity'. Perhaps they could have had their own book. Also, Mary's death confused me, I wish there could have been some explanation of her symptoms because Mary was rather young when she died and when she did there was no explanation, only that she felt old and that she felt like she was dying. The one other thing was the Anne Boleyn situation. Mary seemed to adore Anne in the chapter where her daughter, Frances, was christened, but then not a few pages later she hated Anne and called her a witch and such, with no explanation other than that Henry wanted to divorce his wife Katherine of Aragon and marry Anne. <BR>     Other than a few small things, I really enjoyed this story, whichwas one I was unfamiliar with in Tudor history. It surprised me that Mary, Queen of France was virtually impossible to find before this re-issue because this book was much better than some I have read recently that are in print! The French and English settings, the time period, and the subject all deeply interested me and I greatly am anticipating the next Plaidy re-issue: Thistle and the Rose.	2003-11-26
US	38776718	R2QNC19PXXU7P7	1584858311	187923734	Leyla: The Black Tulip (Girls of Many Lands)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fantastic, as perfect and beautiful as any tulip	For over a year I have anxiously awaited the release of this installment in the Girls of Many Lands series. About 4 weeks ago I finally got it and devoured it! It is one of my personal favorites in the 8-book series and I highly recommend. <BR>The story opens upon 12-year-old Laleena, the daughter of a Georgian artist. Ever since a war broke out involving the neighboring Ottoman Empire, Laleena's father has been missing. Without his financial support, Laleena, her mother, and her brother, Cengiz, have been searching for opportunities to raise money. While doing so one day, Laleena and her brother happen upon a meadow scattered with unfamiliar flowers--tulips. Gathering as many bulbs as possible through trips to the meadows, Cengiz and Laleena become experts in growing these flowers that became a phenomenon around the time. Holland even almost went broke when they bought tulips from Georgia and the Ottoman Empire! Well, Laleena and her brother raise money by selling some bulbs and flowers, but that isn't enough. At a town festival one day, Laleena catches the eye of a group of mysterious men, who also catch her eye. Turning out to be men who are supposedly looking for women to be paid to marry men in the great Turkish city of Istanbul, the Ottoman capital, Laleena sells herself to these men to raise money. However, she soon finds out the terrible mistake she's made. Spending weeks in a ship's hold she finds out the truth, she is to be sold as a slave. She befriends a young girl, named Lena, whom she becomes a guardian over. After weeks in the suffocating hold, the ship arrives in Istanbul, where Laleena has the luck to be sold as a slave to the royal harem at Topkapi Palace. It is here that we dive into the life of the harem. Every movement, every piece of art, and every gesture has its own meaning. Laleena is re-named Leyla and is assigned to work in the gardens of the harem. She befriends Belkis, a fellow Georgian, who trains her in the rules and regulations of harem life. Leyla's life in the harem is scattered with fear and sadness. From the shocking death of the taster, Ceylan, to Leyla's punishments after lying to the Mistress of the Household when she was painting, to Leyla sneaking into a royal garden party, which could have ended in her death. However, this book is also blessed with many happy moments, including the happy ending, which is too good to mention here. The only thing I somewhat disagreed with about this book is that Leyla was able to make a black tulip. This is virtually impossible. People have been trying to do it for centuries and scientists today have proven that a black tulip cannot be made. I still found the 'black tulip scene' in the book a happy part in the heartwarming ending, but I wish it were a little bit more realistic. There was also another problem. It is known, and I believe even mentioned in the book, that slavery of Muslims is forbidden, and not one harem girl was allowed to be Muslim. But there are references that Leyla is Muslim, as is Belkis, and they both end up in the harem. I don't get it. I was also a little sad to find out that Leyla would have gone to the Palace of Tears by the time she was in her 20's, as the padishah she was a harem girl under died in the 1730's. However, I still highly recommend this book and I will treasure it in my vast book collection. <br />Also, I found it interesting that Alev Lytle Croutier's grandmother lived in the last Ottoman harem! I hope to read Ms. Croutier's other harem books someday.	2003-09-07
US	38776718	R4NLULV0YPOZP	0439129109	563107528	Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets, Massachusetts - Rhode Island, 1653 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Wonderful,as good as anyone could expect after the long wait	Finally! After all of the Royal Diaries fans across the nation anxiously waited for the publication of Weetamoo for over two years it's finally here! <BR>This diary covers the teenage years of Weetamoo, the oldest daughter of the sachem of the Pocasset Native Americans, Corbitant, but basically it focuses on the turbulent changes that Weetamoo goes through that will affect her deply when she inherits the role of sachem over the Pocassets. This diary was special in this appraised series. As the author frequently composes, Weetamoo did not write. The Pocassets put their stories down in wampum belts or birchbark pictures. But mostly they handed down their stories orally. In this case, we dive into Weetamoo's thoughts because her imposing father quietly asks his daughter to find some peace and quiet time during her days and reflect with herself, as she is rowdy and wild, and she must learn to contain herself in order to become a true Pocasset sachem. Through almost 150 pages of Weetamoo's thoughts and little birchbark pictures that she composes to keep a memory of her thoughts (and struggles to hide them) we see Weetamoo's daily life. This is what is also special about this diary. Most of the other diaries describe lessons and balls and diplomacy. However, this diary showed the spirit of an average kid. Weetamoo played with her friends, she talked about boys and other things a teenage girl would talk about with her best friend Cedar, who is also destined to become a sachem, and she of course has to do household chores with her mother and her younger sister, Wootenasuke. There are a few funny moments throughout the diary, and Weetamoo's style and voice is much like that of kids today. Memorable moments scatter this book, from the delightful ones such as Weetamoo following her father and his entourage to Plymouth through the poison ivy and sumac and her meeting with her future second husband, Wamsutta, in the woods to the eerie, prophetic, and practically haunting dreamsthat Weetamoo and Cedar have when they undergo their vision quests. Dreams of villages burning, rivers soaked in native blood and bodies, visions of Weetamoo as an older woman without her husband (prophesizing his death), and Cedar and Weetamoo's eventual departure from their friendship.  <BR>All in all, this book was a wonderful read, a great contribution to the series, and just as good as I had hoped for after my anxious 2 year wait. To the side, a reason I liked it all the more is because normally we read about Native Americans who helped the English, like Pocahontas and Sacajawea (just as the author puts in her note). But now we have the chance to enter the world of not only a Native American that many have not heard of and is fresh to our minds, but also one that stood up to the English. <BR>The epilogue, historical note, and appendices are packed with information ranging from Weetamoo's tragic death along with her other childhood friends to Pocasset customs to the hostility between Plymouth colonists and their friends, the natives of Metacom (King Philip). The only thing I was disappointed with was there was no explanation as of why this book took so long to come out. Other than that, I loved this book and it is one of my favorites, not only because it was a very fun read and packed with information but also because it is one of the only books in the series that kids can truly connect with and relate to. I highly recommend. <br />Also, a little overview of upcoming Royal Diaries, all found from my own investigation: <br />Lady of Palenque by Anna Kirwan, due out in March, 2004 <BR>Kazunomiya by Kathryn Lasky, due out in May, 2004 <BR>Maria Theresa by ----, due out in August, 2004 <BR>Catherine the Great by Kristiana Gregory, due out in Fall, 2004  <br />Visit my Royal Diaries site ([...]	2003-09-06
US	38776718	R31DP4JE7GJV38	0440238560	697653099	Shabanu: Daughter of the Wind (Readers Circle)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	New View of Life	I have always found an interest in Indian culture and the mythology of Hinduism, the outfits and jewels of the Indian women, the sumptuous and lavish palaces and monuments, and the history. However, now I have had the chance to see not only a culture that neighbors India, but a new aspect of life. <BR>Shabanu and her older sister, Phulan, live with their father, mother, haughty Aunt, and their two baby cousins. Although it is commented throughout the story by numerous characters that Dadi (Shabanu's word for her father)should be upset that he only has daughters and has to come up with large dowries to marry them off, Dadi is perfectly content with his two wonderful daughters. Phulan is a classic beauty, but also rather ditzy. Shabanu is a wild young girl, and she has to learn to calm herself and work in the house instead of herd the camels. Both girls are betrothed to their cousins, Shabanu to Murad, who is 4 years older than her, and Phulan to Hamir. The book paints a perfect portrait of the life of this nomadic family, as they travel across the desert from toba to toba to gather water. Shabanu tends her camels and does help birth one who will forever be in her childhood, which she names Mithroo. She accompanies her father to the carnivals and fairs to sell some of the camels to pay for her and Philan's dowries (although her father sells the family's favorite camel who has been with them for a long time and is one of the best camels around, named Guluband). Although she is reminded of her wedding constantly, Shabanu refuses to become tame and obedient. Phulan is constantly thinking about her future husband and her clothes and beauty, so Shabanu has no one else to turn to and starts to discover her sexuality  a little more. She is a little jealous of her sister's beauty (and her growing breasts), but she vows never to become like her simple-minded sister. When the family goes off to Hamir's and Murad's house, accompanied by cousins and family, all is in order. Theyare well recieved and the families gather far and round for the wedding of Phulan and Hamir. However, one day, when Shabanu goes to the river by Hamir's and Murad's house, she happens upon the landlord and his hunting party. All the men being fat and ugly, yet girl crazy, they plan to take Shabanu against her will. When Phulan comes to the river she of course acts stupid and starts shaking her hips and showing off herself, not knowing that these men plan to rape her. Shabanu drops her clay pot of water on the men and runs, taking Phulan. However, what they have done end sup with an escape through the desert on camels, the death of Hamir, and the destruction of every dream that the family had. When their parents and aunts figure out a compromise with the landlord, Phulan is to marry Murad and Shabanu is now to marry the landlord's brother, a 50 year old man with 3 wives. The story ends with Phulan's wedding and Shabanu running away from home so she won't have to marry, and her faher catching up to her and bringing her home. A nice point to stop before picking up in the sequel, Haveli. <BR>This book was very interesting and captivating and introduced me to a new culture and world I had never bothered to notice before. The life of the people of the Cholistan Desert is a hard one full of death, loss, and arranged marriages. I was happy to have read this book and I highly recommend it.	2003-09-01
US	38776718	R37QT31IY9GWL8	0609810170	66045829	The Rose Without a Thorn: The Wives of Henry VIII	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Compelling and Haunting	I recently bought this book along with Lady in the Tower, the other new Plaidy re-release. This shorter volume tells of Katharine Howard, the cousin of Anne Boleyn who also became queen of England and who also shared a similiar fate. Katharine is born into an impoverished branch of the Howard family, a very noble English family that is also very stable at court. When her powerful Grandmother comes to visit their meager country estate, Katharine intrigues her Grandmother and is whisked off to live at her Grandmother's large and beautiful estate. While there, her Grandmother neglects her and Katharine gives into the daring acts of the girls who work in the estate who share her bechamber. Katharine befriends her music teacher, Mannox, and invites him into her bed at night. The affair ends fast and one Francis Weston comes into Katharine's life. However, this ends once Katharine's Grandmother comes upon Francis and Katharine frolicking upon a parlor floor. Around this time Anne Boleyn is crowned queen and so the entire entourage and family moves to the Lambeth estate on the Thames River in London. Now Katharine falls for her own cousin, Thomas Culpepper. However, Katharine's powerful uncle has plans for his neice and finds her a place in Anne of Cleves short-lived entourage (Anne Boleyn has hence forth been executed and Jane Seymour has died). Henry VIII begins to notice Katharine and after demissing his marriage to Anne of Cleves, he courts Katharine and soon she is thrust onto the same stage her older cousin came upon a decade or so before. Katharine is wedded to the king in a short ceremony and soon begins her short reign as Queen of England. However, when rumors of her past affairs come back Katharine finds herself in danger. Franics Weston comes to court, as does Mannox, bringing back haunting memories that could cost Katharine her head. But when Katharine commits adultery with Thomas Culpepper one night, her fate is sealed. Henry, in his first happy marriage in decades, is brought the horrible news by those insanely jealous of Katharine's new fame and the Howard's rising fortune (even though they were already very dominant and had more power than the Tudors). Katharine is guilty, as are her lovers, and all are brought to the block or the gallows. And even on the scafold Katharine declared &quot;I die a queen, but I would rather die the wife of Thomas Culpepper&quot;. I loved this book and found it highly enjoyable. I find it no wonder that Jean Plaidy is acclaimed a sone of the greatest historical fiction writers ever. A haunting and compelling story full of intrigue and unexpected twists and turns, Katharine's story was a short lived one that is often overshadowed by her cousin's story, but is just as interesting.	2003-08-10
US	38776718	RU9ZUZ9EL5WGT	0060571314	319146508	Project Princess (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 4 1/2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly Enjoyable Anecdote	As a short 50-page edition to the highly acclaimed Princess Diaries series, I highly enjoyed this slim volume that proceeds a girl's charity in NYC. It is Mia's spring vacation and she and her friends, Lilly, Tina, Boris, Michael (who is also her boyfriend) and the rest of the gang decide to volunteer to build houses for the poor in West Virginia. In other words, the middle of nowhere to Mia, who is used to Manhattan so much. Although it is very short compared to the 200 paged 4 earlier volumes, this book had as many laugh out loud moments and memorable quotes. From Boris getting sick on the bus ride from Manhattan to West Virginia to Mia and Michael going to inventory the tools and catching their chaperones making out to Grandmere's unexpected (and horrifying) arrival and reserving half of the local hotel for her entourage this book was a very fun read and I enjoyed it very much. And of course we cannot forget Mia falling off of the roof and landing on Boris and the woman in the family Mia's group is building a house for crying and getting emotional at the sound of her very own toilet being flushed. This book will sell and I know many will find it just as enjoyable as the other books in the series. Can't wait until the fifth edition!	2003-08-10
US	38776718	R2G52MWY2K88QW	0590972162	201754499	The Girl Who Chased Away Sorrow: The Diary of Sarah Nita, a Navajo Girl, New Mexico, 1864 (Dear America)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Good Diary and Compelling	This story showed the truth about how American people treated Native Americans, even as recent as the late 1800s. As a fan of the Dear America Series and the Royal Diaries, I only recently read this book even though I have owned it for awhile now. Sarah Nita is an ordinary Navajo girl living with her fmaily and aunt's family. But when she and her sister are with the grazing goats, Americans come and take their family away. And so Sarah Nita and her sister set out to find relatives they have in the Canyon de Chelly. After discovering their Grandparents and cousins, it is only a short time before American men come and take Sarah Nita, her sister, and her new family away. And so begins their march in the Long Walk. Sarah Nita keeps her family, and soon many stranger Navajos', hopes up with her many entertaining stories. There are happy parts in this story such as Sarah Nita finding her family and her new love for her male cousin, but this book was tragic and sad, showing how horrible the Natives were treated, such as weak women being shot on the side of the trails and weak men being left behind. I recommend this book for people to read so that they may say the harsh and criminal punishments Native Americans went through. I don't understand how Americans could do sucha horrible thing...	2003-08-10
US	38776718	R1UZ30RR9SMS1F	0140322051	805862872	Friedrich (Puffin Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tragic	I read this book just last night for summer reading for high school and I was captivated. This book covers about 15 or 16 years of the lives of a German boy's family and his best friend's family. Sharing the same apartment building, Friedrich's family is well off and his friend's is very poor. However, they still have their good times in a German city at the time of Hitler's rise to power as chancellor of Germany. The book is divided into short anecdotes that slowly progress from bad to worse, showing the cruel treatments of Jewish people by Germans. From the two boys experiencing the painting of signs on Jewish stores to mark them to Friedrich's dismission from school and a local pool because he is Jewish and his mother's death after their house is raided and ransacked. This book truely shows the selfish and cruel ways of the Nazis and their discrimination towards innocent people. There is a story were Friedrich and his friend attend a Party meeting (Party refering to Hitler's party) and a man in the Party tells of how the Jewish people used to sacrifice cows and showed no mercy and says the Jewish people were merciful and evil for doing this. Now don't I recall the innocent Jewish people being tortured and murdered by Nazis who showe dno mercy? The Nazis were hypocritical and evil, unmerciful, unhuman beings. This story stands as a testament of a boy who watched his mother die because of these people, who watched his father be deported, and who saw his everyday world shatter, only to end in Friedrich's own tragic death when a Nazi sympathizer, the man who owned the apartment building, denies Friedrich when he asks for shelter during an air raid. I highly recommend this book and urge you to read and it and never let this kind of thing happen again.	2003-08-10
US	38776718	R336YB6IOVW8VY	0152167374	432732090	Pocahontas	Books	3	2	18	N	N	Dissapointment	I had high expectations for this book as the legend of Pocahontas if one of my favorites of all the stories America has to offer. However, as soon as I bought this book my hopes feel. The story part of the book is at only a meager 150 pages. And the story is cut in half. One chapter is written from Pocahontas' point of view. The next chapter is from John Smith's point of view. Then back to Pocahontas, then John Smith, etc. To be honest I could care less what John Smith had to say, and I almost had the mind to read just the chapters from Pocahontas' point of view. I did end up reading John Smith chapters, which proved to be boring compared to Pocahontas' chapters. The book was not a complete catastrophe. The Pocahontas chapters were very interesting and kept me captivated. And the short Powhatan legends told at the beginnings of the Pocahontas chapters were enjoyable, as was the glossary of Powhatan terms, numbers, phrases, and names. But I think John Smith's view was a waste. The book would have been much better written from Pocahontas' view only. I would not recommend this book, and if you do wish to buy it, I would get it from the library or wait until it comes out in paperback. I have the mind to return this book. And also, I found John Smith's chapters confusing. John uses many words that are all 17th century words, whcih forces you to flip to the glossary of English words constantly. And not only that but John constantly goes from talking in the first person to the third person! And I found it almost laughable that the author bashes the stereotypes of Native Americans and Pocahontas in the back saying for example that Pocahontas is often patheticly depicted as a Plains Indian in paintings, pictures, and in the statue that stands in Jamestown today when what graces the cover of the book but a picture of Pocahontas dressed as a Plains Indian! A dissapointing story. I would recommend that you buy another Native American book coming out within a few days or weeks,the newest Royal Diary called Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets. Not only is it longer, but also not as expensive as Pocahontas. And I have heard that it is very good. Perhaps I will exchange this book for Weetamoo...	2003-08-09
US	38776718	R1BY7Y4YRMZ7IA	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Lives up to the expectations of the series	When I first picked this book up, I thought I'd NEVER finish it, it's huge! Almost 200 pages longer than Goblet of Fire! However, don't let the thickness of the spin wary you, this book was GREAT. I won't summarize the book, because I dont want to give away any parts of the plot, but all I need to say is this book definitely lived up to the expectations of this famous series about the boy wizard, Harry Potter. My favorite in the 7 part series is still Prisoner of Azkaban however, yet I still enjoyed this installment very much and I am sure you will too.	2003-06-21
US	38776718	R2ZENVRGE9I1JC	0609610295	87612577	Feathered Serpent	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Good story, but very filthy and incorrect	Feathered Serpent is the story of an intriguing and passionate cacique's daughter named Malinali Tenepal and her love and obsession over the man that she thought was her savior named Feathered Serpent, Hernan Cortes. <BR>Malinali grew up in the Yucatan valleys, the daughter of a priest and a Mexica aka Aztec woman. Her mother despised her for not being chosen to be sacrificed and her father loved her. When she was still a young girl, her father told her that in the year One Reed, Quetzalcoatl aka Feathered Serpent would return to Tenochtitlan from the Cloud Lands to the East and topple the Mexica monarchy and the hated emperor, Motecuhzoma aka Montezuma. Not too long after that, Motecuhzoma had her Malinali's father killed in the town square for speaking about Motecuhzoma being removed from the throne, his birthright. Malinali's mother remarried and had a son, and when Malinali was 9, she was sold to slavetraders so that the new baby boy could inherit all of the lands of Malinali's family one day. Malinali ends up as the slave of a Mayan cacique, and when she is 19, she is given to a band of strange white men with beards. The year is One reed. The leader of the men must be Quetzalcoatl (it's really Cortes). When Cortes realizes Malinali is fluent in Nahuatl and Mayan, she becomes one of his translators along with a holy man named Aguilar, who despises Malinali because of her heathen and sexual ways. And from there begins a long journey across the lands of the Mexica, the Toltecs, the Maya, and many other tribal lands of modern-day Mexico as Cortes comes closer and closer to Tenochtitlan, where he plans to overthrow Motecuhzoma and make King Charles of Spain the rightful ruler of the land and take all of the gold in his name. However, the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan are outraged at Cortes, who they know is not Feathered Serpent. He has dared to destroy their religion and try to baptize them all into a new faith. He has dared to steal from them. He has dared to bring down their weak king. And all of this has happened because he has listened to Malinali. And so the people of Tenochtitlan attack Cortes and his armies, running them out of Tenochtitlan and forcing them to swim across the lake the city sits on, causing most of the armies to drown and all of the tons of gold they had taken and claimed to sink to the bottom of the lake. Malinali and Cortes survived, but their lives are not the same. The man she thought would save her was not Cortes, she realizes, and all of the work she has done and all of the hard work she put herself through was all a lie. She destroyed her own people. And even today she walks the streets of Mexico City crying for the losses she caused as La Llorona.  <BR>This book was very good and very well researched, at least in the fields of Mexican culture. There were a few problems I had with this book though: <BR>1. Almost everything told about Malinali in this book was not true. Malinali was not born in 1500, she was born in 1505, so she was only 14 when she was given to Cortes, not 19. Malinali's father was not a priest, he was a cacique, a ruler, of Painala, and he died of a fever, not from being murdered by Motecuhzoma's guards. And Malinali did not have brothers and sisters, she was an only child. The author's research was poor in the areas of Malinali, and I think he needs a new editor. <BR>2. OMG I have never seen so much sex in one book in my entire life! Almost every 20 or less pages there is a new scene between new people! And need I say that Rain Flower, Malinali's friend, certainly gets around a lot. This seemed more like a porn than a historical fiction or even a romance! And did we really need to read THAT much detail... <BR>3. The language and swears used here are not ones you would normally here back then, and why must we read the same swear by one of Cortes' men every single page? It gets boring, although when Malinali called one of the soldiers something when she was learning Castilian anddidnt know what it meant it was rather funny. <BR>And so, I truly enjoyed this book and it is a very good story, but don't use it for school or if you want to learn anything nonfictional about Malinali, as most of it is false. In fact, that makes me question the author's research of the Mexica cultures and Cortes' life and soldiers....	2003-06-21
US	38776718	R3PXNEL657K9QZ	1584855185	628033735	Cecile: Gates of Gold (Girls of Many Lands)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Tres Bien!	I originally picked this up because it was by the same publisher as the American Girls Series (I am a huge fan of the Josephine and the Felicity books), along with Spring Pearl. I dove into this book, to say the least. The story is about the daughter of a widowed French man, named Cecile. One day while out in the woodlands, a royal entourage passes by and a woman losses her course and finds Cecile. As it turns out, she is the Duchesse de Orleans from the Versailles Court. Madame as she known as around Versailles adopts Cecile and takes her to the frivolous court where Cecile is introduced to the royal family and the grandeur of France. The stories of the Versailles intrigues w/ Cecile are wonderful. They are very detailed, very amusing, very entertaining, and full of hidden morals. Although some of the scenes were unecessary, the story overall was a grand treat. The best scene I think was perhaps the Christmas ball, as entertaining and scandalous as it was. The story ends in tragedy, with the death of one of the little dauphins. Cecile is banished because she helped keep the other dauphin from his family, therefore putting him in danger (but really saving him). Cecile is sent to a girls' school, and forever leaves behind Versailles behind the gates of gold. <BR>This story was great, the best in the series I'd say. Great details, development, characters, and enough to capture your mind. Although, I may be overating this book, as I am obsessed with the French courts of Versailles, Marie Antoinette, and all French royalty, I am sure everyone who tries this book will enjoy it. And of course, since I am one of the biggest fans of the Royal Diaries out there, I have to add that Marie Antoinette, Princess of Versailles, would be an excellent book to read alongside Cecile. <BR>Bon travail Mary Casanova!	2003-06-13
US	38776718	R2G5DII9HWMLF8	0439249767	386500982	Kristina: The Girl King, Sweden, 1638 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The Princess Born To Be King	Gustav and Maria Eleanor, the king and queen or Sweden, always wanted a child. What they got after many miscarriages, was Kristina. Maria wailed and keened, but Gustav praised his daughter. Gustav died only 6 years later, leaving his daughter as the KING of Sweden under many regents. Maria hated her daughter (she had mental illnesses that caused her to lveo and hate her daughter on and off)and after attempts on her life, Kristina was sent to live in Stockholm at the Castle of the Three Crowns with her beloved Aunt Katarina. When we meet 11 year old Kristina Vasa, the KING of Sweden, she is sitting by her window at the Castle of the Three Crowns in Stockholm, Sweden, writing in the small book given to her by her Aunt Katarina to record her thoughts and feelings. Over the next year and a half, we watch as young Kristina matures into a young woman (although she becomes more masculine everyday)and we witness her lessons in languages, military tactics, astronomy, history, etc. and her many (MANY) troubles: her insane mother, her frequent nightmares, memories of deaths and attempts on her life, and of course the constant nagging by her tutors and regents to marry. However, Kristina does not wnat to marry for she wants to become KING, as her father intended her to be. The diary greatly describes life in the Swedish court, the fashions, the arts, and the great people of the time. This diary reveals the Kristina most people ignore: not the very masculine woman who gave up her throne to parade around Europe dressed as a man on a white stallion and for Catholicism, but the young misunderstood princess who was alone in the world and had a very difficult childhood as she prepared for her greatest role: to be crowned king of Sweden. We end our journey with Kristina seeing how much she has matured when Kristina is presented before the Rad ( a group put together to quiz Kristina on her studies and preperations) and informs the men that (Kristina's mother had recently escaped Swedento live in the enemy of Sweden's, Denmark, land and to mingle with the Danish king which showed treason and disloyalty to Sweden)she is going to support her mother now living in debt in Denmark with her own money. This act shows her regent, Axel Oxensteirna (who has only ever referred to Kristina as queen, not king)that Kristina is truly a wonderful and skilled young girl who will one day be a great KING of Sweden. I truly enjoyed this book and thought it was one of the best of the Royal Diaries, next to Carolyn Meyer's other Royal Diaries (Anastasia and Isabel)and Kathryn Lasky's. All fans of the series will enjoy this popular woman's story and leave with the notion of the feminist movement Kristina started so that women could be where they are today. Kristina should be a role model for all girls and if you ever see this book, be sure to pick it up, for despite the diary is short compared to others in the series at a mere 135 pages (epilgoue, historical note, photos, and family tree add up the book to 170 pages) those 135 pages will introduce you to a new world that you will enjoy.	2003-04-15
US	38776718	R1LAQRD613NPFC	0786867175	590874516	Leap of Faith: Memoirs of an Unexpected Life	Books	5	85	101	N	N	An Engrossing Read	An enlightening and engrossing read by Queen Noor Al-Hussein of Jordan! Telling the stories of how she met her future husband, her reforms in palace life, and the many accomplishments she made as a very revered and respected woman who improved women's lives in Jordan. This autobiography was surprisingly very well-written and very interesting, something you don't find too much today. However, all of the more than 700 pages kept me interested and engrossed in Queen Noor's story. A delightful read and a bestseller for many months to come, I recommend this book to all royalty fans and anyone looking for a good read. Stolen Lives would be an exceptional recommendation to purchase along with this autobiography.	2003-03-26
US	38776718	R1AEXU8XAKEF9Y	0590819755	602603328	Cleopatra VII: Daughter of the Nile, Egypt, 57 B.C. (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of the first and best of the Royal Diaries	Pay no head to the reviews giving this book 1 or less than 4 stars! Cleopatra: Daughter of the Nile is one of the best books for Young Adults out there in the Historical Fiction field. Cleopatra is the daughter of Ptolemy Auletes, and is the most intelligent of all his daughters and children. Tryphaeana, the oldest, cares more for power and luxury than anything; Berenice cares for nothing but beauty and jewels; Arsinoe follows in her older sister, Tryphaena's, footsteps, and the two Ptolemy brothers are whiny, powerless, and simply pawns in counselors' hunger for the throne of Egypt. Whule her sisters sit in the palace admiring clothes and perfumes and her brothers stay in the nurseries, Cleopatra spends time in the libraries, talking with philosophers, and learnigng as much as she can about the many duties of a queen-for she wants her father to choose her to success him, for she knows only she out of her many siblings can handle the duties of keeping Egypt safe from Rome and the other empires of the world. However, when her father flees Egypt because of his unpopularity and Tryphaena crowns herself queen, Cleopatra must flee for her life with her faithful servants. After meeting up with her father en route to Rome to get armies to calm down the Egyptian people, Cleopatra takes on the duty to show Rome that Egypt is all powerful and as mighty as Rome. With her Latin, intelligence, military and government tactics, and stubborness, Cleopatra achieves the money and devotion from Rome that Egypt needs, gets her father back on his throne, and reserves the spot on the Egyptian throne that she's fought for for many years. <BR>This book was excellent! Well researched, very informational, very alive and real, and with a good use of vocabulary and intelligence, this diary is an excellent contribution to the Royal Diaries Series. With Kristiana's Eleanor: Crown Jewel of Aquitaine and Cleopatra, we can only imagine how wonderful and exciting her last Royal Diaries book, Catherine the Great, will be!	2003-03-23
US	38776718	R2CM7AB4SV8TCE	0590684841	416913226	Elizabeth I: Red Rose of the House of Tudor, England, 1544 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Forgotten Princess Remembered	Kicking off the Royal Diaries, this installment by Kathryn Lasky was as exciting and interesting as her many Dear Americas. Elizabeth is the daughter of King Henry VIII of England and his 2nd wife, Anne Boleyn. Anne was a 'witch' and therefore Elzaibeth was considered a bastard at a young age. Exiled to Hatfield House with her beloved and neurotic at times governess, Kat Ashley, Elizabeth is an educated and fine young girl, destined to become the greatest ruler England has ever known. After Catherine Parr, Henry's 6th wife, re-installed Elizabeth and her half-sister Mary back to their rights to the throne, Elizabeth becomes more aware of the court that surrounds her. We get to glimpse life at Whitehall and the many palaces court is held at, Elizabeth's education, her growing awareness of Robin Dudley, and her hatred for Mary Tudor/love for her sickly brother Edward. With the sad death of her father at the closing of this diary and coronation of 9-year-old Edward, we see a new and more matured Elizabeth than at the beginning of the diary. <BR>This diary was an excellent beginning to a very accomplished series. Very factual, historically accurate, able to connect with modern teenagers, and interesting, I would recommend this book to all historical fiction fans!	2003-03-23
US	38776718	R2TAD2L9KAG7UO	0439220270	403472475	Land of the Buffalo Bones: The Diary of Mary Ann Elizabeth Rodgers, An English Girl in Minnesota, New Yeovil, Minnesota 1873 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Family Story Retold	Land of the Buffalo Bones is the story of Polly Rodgers, a young girl whose father is a Baptist minster who organizes 80 religously persecuted Baptists in Yeovil, England, to colonize the Minnesota Territory in the New Yeovil Colony. Although the advertisments and her father's false words tell of a wonderful and bountiful country, the 80 colonists come upon a surprise when they reach the colony--which isn't built, is covered in snow, and is in the middle of nowhere with no trees or parks or houses or anything of the sort that was promised. After the grueling ship ride over, this hardship is even worse. Soddies are built quickly for the many families, as is one for the Rodgers, since their father is not expected to work with his hands. However, all the land brings is despair. Locusts attack and destroy the crops that the first time at farming colonists grow, Polly's best friend's family is destroyed with the death of the mother and brother and the runaway of her best friend to be married to a Native American. However, the land brings Polly and her step-mother closer together and many of her other family members, despite Laura's constant pesturing. However, even though her father is taken away from his position as minister and the Rodgers must move onto a new colony, they leave happy and together, knowing they will make it.<BR>This diary is based on the author's family, the Rodgers, and was an interesting and treasuring contribution to the series. Although I would recommend Love Thy Neighbor more out of the two new books, this diary was still very good, very unique, and  worth you time.	2003-03-23
US	38776718	R3T96PES807VVH	0439194466	905682303	Mirror, Mirror on the Wall: The Diary of Bess Brennan, The Perkins School for the Blind, 1932 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique and Forgotten Part of History	This book has got to be one of the most unique and unexpected books in the Dear America Series. However, it should be known and remembered, and thankfully it shall be among teenage children. Bess Brennan and her sister are very close and one day when they go sledding, Bess loses her sight when two boys play a trick on her, causing her to sled down into a tree. Bess's sight is absolutely lost when doctors take a chance with a new form of operation and so Bess is now an outside in the world, and may never fit in. The only way out for Bess is the Perkins School for the Blind. Although she is wary at first, Bess soon meets new friends and begins to learn Braille among all the other normal lessons a child would learn. This book was very interesting and special to the series, and hopefully more books like it will be contributed to the series. Although there are a few factual errors in it, including the WWI error in the historical note, the book is overall terrific, well written, very informational, and will open kids' eyes to a new part of American history. <BR>I also noticed that isn't it interesting how Barry Denenberg connects his books? In this book Bess and her friends put on a play called When Will This Cruel War Be Over? That play is the other book Barry Denenberg contributed to the Dear America Series by the same name about the Civil War. Also, in Barry's Irsih Dear America, So Far From Home, the young blind girl attends Perkins School for the Blind in the epilogue. Interesting!	2003-03-23
US	38776718	R2OA1JHHPUFVVE	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Not Anne, But Mary	I don't know why this book had such bad reviews. From the first page of this book to the very last this book kept me interested, awake, and well-immersed in the Tudor courts. I may only be in middle schoolbut I have read many adult books, mostly historical fiction, and this is one of the best I have ever read. Sure, this may be historically inaccurate at some parts (like the age difference in this book goes Anne is the oldest, then their brother, then Mary when in real life it went Mary, Anne, and their brother) but it is still a good read, a very interesting read, and a very needed record of the forgotten Boleyn girl who bore Henry two children and was his first mistress who established the Boleyns at court. Anne is shown in the light she should be told in this book: power hungry, beautiful, a devoted girl to her closest of friends, and simply someone who wanted to make it in the world but went too high and was brought down. Mary will be sympathized in the book and may seem a little whiny at times but you will be scared, happy, upset, and carefree along with her through all the chapters. I recommend this book to all people from 9th Grade+ because of the adult references and I am sure you will enjoy it no matter how inaccurate it may be and how girly it can be. Can't wait to read Phillipa Gregory's next novel, historical hopefully!	2003-03-23
US	38776718	R296UWKVM185DT	0439194466	905682303	Mirror, Mirror on the Wall: The Diary of Bess Brennan, The Perkins School for the Blind, 1932 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique and Forgotten Part of History	This book has got to be one of the most unique and unexpected books in the Dear America Series. However, it should be known and remembered, and thankfully it shall be among teenage children. Bess Brennan and her sister are very close and one day when they go sledding, Bess loses her sight when two boys play a trick on her, causing her to sled down into a tree. Bess's sight is absolutely lost when doctors take a chance with a new form of operation and so Bess is now an outside in the world, and may never fit in. The only way out for Bess is the Perkins School for the Blind. Although she is wary at first, Bess soon meets new friends and begins to learn Braille among all the other normal lessons a child would learn. This book was very interesting and special to the series, and hopefully more books like it will be contributed to the series. Although there are a few factual errors in it, including the WWI error in the historical note, the book is overall terrific, well written, very informational, and will open kids' eyes to a new part of American history. <BR>I also noticed that isn't it interesting how Barry Denenberg connects his books? In this book Bess and her friends put on a play called When Will This Cruel War Be Over? That play is the another book Barry Denenberg contributed to the Dear America Series by the same name about the Civil War. Also, in Barry's Irsih Dear America, So Far From Home, the young blind girl attends Perkins School for the Blind in the epilogue. Interesting!	2003-03-23
US	38776718	RX91CQ04IQZJD	0439153085	445622018	Love Thy Neighbor: the Tory Diary of Prudence Emerson	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Excellent Contribution	Love Thy Nieghbor is by far one of the best Dear America books that have been puclished in the last few months! The story of the daughter of a Tory couple, Prudence Emerson, is told through Pru's diary-a small book given to her by her aunt, also called Madam Pinprick, in which Pru must imporve her handwriting. through vivid diary entries, we meet the world that is sadly nowadays seen as treacherous and evil--the world of the Tories. However, the Tories were just as normal as the Patriots, however, they were treated horribly. Pru tells of the divided classrooms, the denounciation of Tories in school, the loss of her best friend, the dangers of Tories around her, and the escape from her little town of Green Marsh to live in the safety of Boston. Pru tells of the Battles of Bunker Hill & Breed's Hill and the beginnings of the Revolutionary War. This diary was excellent, the better of the latest releases in the Dear America series. An untold story unfolds in this diary and will hopefully leave Americans with the truth of what the Tories really were.	2003-03-23
US	38776718	RFYLT3BE060SU	0439266440	43786288	Elisabeth of Austria: The Princess Bride (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	The Lonely Empress	I had recieved an advanced copy of Elisabeth:The Princess Bride in November, 2002 from the author and I just recently bought the book from B&N. Let me just say that the only disappointing part about this diary is that it is cut down to a meager 93 pages of diary, and then has 60 pages of historical info and pictures (although that informtaion is very helpful and revealing of the Austrian court). Elisabeth is the 15 year old daughter of Duke Maximilien and Princess Ludovica, the Duke & Duchess of Bavaria. Life at serene and calm Possenhofen in the Bavarian outskirts of Munich is paradise for Sisi(Elisabeth's nickname). Sisi spends time writing trememendous poems and sonnets, riding her beloved chestnut horse, Punch, and of course spending time with her beloved Poppy. Elisabeth is not your average future empress. She goes around wearing peasant's clothes and frolicking like her Poppy, like a peasant. However, Sisi must tag along with her older sister, Helene, and her mother, Ludovica, when Helene is en route to Bad Ischl to meet and be wed to Emperor Franz Josef of the Holy Roman Empire. However, Franz Josef takes a much more appealing interest in young Elisabeth, and asks for Sisi's hand in marriage! The whirling world that Sisi watched Helene experience as she was preparing to be Empress (even though she wasn't even betrothed yet) suddebly moves onto Sisi. Possenhofen is no longer calming and serene, but a bustling small city-like a beehive. As Sisi prepares for her flight from Posse forever, she suddenly realizes what she is doing and come sout of her day dreams of her future husband. And as she is walking down the aisle to an uncertain future in the last entry, she suddenly realizes the family, friends, pets, home, and life she is leaving behind for a malicious, gossipy court...forever. <BR>The epilogue shows the result of this unconsidered marriage: near-divorce, annorexia, depression, loss of children to her Aunt Sophie and to death, seclusion, obsession, and ofcourse....assassination. This volume was an excellent contribution to this fantastic series of stories of women who shaped the history of the world by their royal powers. No one will be disappointed with buying this book and will leave with knowledge of a lonely and upset Empress, who experiences the same things that teenagers today do...but also so much more.	2003-03-16
US	38776718	R1E9TCQL5ZU84J	0439266440	43786288	Elisabeth of Austria: The Princess Bride (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The People's Princess	I just bought this book ... The cover may be demeaning and well...unattractive, but the book is extroidanary. The characters are so alive, the settings are so real, the serene surrondings of Posenhoffen Castle and the crowded corridors of Hofburg Palace--you feel like you are right there. You sympathize Sisi and her poor sister Helene, you hate Aunt Sophie, and you love Poppy. This book was so good, you get caught up in it and don't realize it's over until you notice this book was shorter than the normal Royal Diaries. I'd say the only disappointments about this book are the cover that shows not even half of Sisi's beauty, and the size.You will not be upset with buying this book and the epilogue, pictures, historical notes, are very excellent editions to this melancholy but also serene story of the beautiful, intelligent young Empress of Austria who left her life behind and suffered a horrible life that was abrupted by a fatal and tragic death. If only Barry Denenberg would continue with the Royal Diaries series.....	2003-03-14
US	38776718	R3FZ1Y2CBQR4AM	0440415365	457252494	Anna of Byzantium (Laurel-Leaf Books)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Never Have  I Read Such A Captivating Book	I must start off with saying that I have read hundreds of books over the last years of my life. Never, never have I picked up a book and been so captivated with it and so into it that I could be right there, right alongside the character and feel their pain and their loss. Anna Comnena is the daughter of Alexius Comnenus and Irene Ducas. The Ducases had once ruled the fair sized Byzantine Empire but exchanged their throne to the Comnenus with many bribes and marriages and threats. Alexius's family got the right to the throne and married a Ducas princess-Irene. And from this marriage came many healthy children (although only 3 are mentioned in this book-Anna, Maria, and John). However, Alexius's mother-Anna Dalassena is a power-hungry cold woman who takes Anna and turns her into a small version of herself with lessons on how to rule the empire since Anna Comnena is the rightful heir. However, Anna is headstrong and won't have anyone control her. And so in but a day, Anna's right to the throne is taken away-along with her betrothed, who dies not soon after anyway. And in Anna's place goes the gossipy, rude, cruel, lowly, brother of Anna and Maria-John, He is simply a tool of Anna Dalassena. Anna wants the right to rule and will stop at nothing to have her grand children on the throne so she can control them when the inherit the throne. However, John treats his sisters and mother and even his father as trash. Following the stripping of her title and her rights to the palace library and areas she once enjoyed, Anna's father dies after another military campaign. John is now king. However, irene will not see anyone other than Anna on the throne and so Anna and Irene plan to poison John and put Anna on the throne. However, they are caught in their actions.Irene goe sinsane and is sent away to the mountains. Anna is sent to live her days in a convent. This book is so real to you! The emotions and descriptions are so short but vivid. The fights between Irene and Alexius andAnna Dalassena and the two are so real you wish you could jump into them and tear out Anna Dalassena's hair (As Anna Comnena did at one part!). You want to hurt John as Anna tried to and you want to be there to stick up for Anna when she can't. This is definitely a family drama and a very historical tale roled into one. However, it is worth every penny you spend on it. I have re-read it a few times now and I still can't get enough of it. I will warn you though, this book is full of  a lot of sorrow and you will definitely feel as upset as Anna at some points. However, it is fun to think that although Anna was taken off the throne so she would never become something--she amounted to more than anyone in her family. She is copnsidered the first female historian and has given the world a beautiful description of Byzantine life and the history of the Ducas and Comneni families. I will definitely look for THE ALEXIAD the next time I go to a boosktore of library. This is a wonderufl book and is for everyone, boy or girl of every age. And don't be afraid to learn something from it.....	2003-02-28
US	38776718	RAREGU3LE354P	0066238110	102093578	The Impossible Journey (Russian Saga)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Book! But Not As Exciting As Angel on the Square	This was a great book--full of adventure and very exciting. The children of Katya and her cousin from the last book-Angel on the Square-witness their parents being taken away by the new police instated by the Communist government of Russia. Marya and Georgi, the children, are taken in by their greedy and rude neighbors, who take everything from Marya and Georgi's family's aprtment, and plan to send the two kids to an orphanage. However, they escape by buying train tickets with a Faberge locket their mother recieved when she lived with Anastasia in Tsarkoe Selo before the revolution and begin a journey to Siberia, by boat, through the wilderness, and by traveling and living among natives in northern Russia in order to find their mother by an address they found in a letter from their mother. The ending of the story is heart-warming, with the discovery of their mother and the return of their father in a  house in Siberia owned by an old woman who takes them in. However, the reunion is disrupted by tragedy with the death of their father. This is a sad book--but it shows that you should never give up what you pursue, and that if you work hard enough--you will achieve it.	2003-01-23
US	38776718	R10LQ9X5PEHOLK	0439194040	38837816	Mary, Queen of Scots: Queen Without a Country, France 1553 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mary Queen of Scots is best princess ever!	I read this book back when it first came out but I cans till remember it well. Mary is the daughter of the Scottish king who died when she was less than a week old. When she was 6, her mother sent her to be educated in France, where she would also marry the French dauphin Francis. Now, she is 9, and has been living in the French court for years with her only real friends, her four Marys from Scotland. But the French court isn't everything it came out to be. Catherine de Medici hates Mary, and will stop at nothing to destroy her. Mary befriends the king's true lover, Diane de Poitiers, and Mary even gets visits from her mother eveyr once and a while! However, amny deaths come and many mysteries are solevd in this book. It is my favorite from the Royal Diaries series and I hope you enjoy it too. Kathryn Lasky brings Mary to life, although Mary seems older than 9 in her speech and knowledge, and the research shows in this book. Almsot everything is real and researched and nothing is made up. Nostramadus even makes a guest appearance in this book! I recommend this boys and girls of all ages.	2003-01-11
US	38776718	R1WAM8JVGO43FV	0439129109	563107528	Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets, Massachusetts - Rhode Island, 1653 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Don't worry-It's too be published in October!	To everyone that cannot find a copy of this book or wnats to find a copy of it--don't worry. Weetamoo was published in June of 2001 but was very rare to find and less than a month after it was published, all copies of the book were taken back to Scholastic, Inc. to be revised and edited. Weetamoo has been re-written and edited and will be published by this fall according to Carolyn Meyer--another Royal Diaries author who is friends with Patricia Clark Smith.	2003-01-06
US	38776718	RPF6F5BDTL27I	0385327803	44674115	Daughter of Venice	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One of my favorite books!	I checked a book out by Donna Jo Napoli by this same author-Donna Jo Napoli-called Sirena and I loved it so much that I decided to read this books when I saw it in a local bookstore. This book starts out slow but starts to progress and build up until at the end a ton of action erupts and a great and unexpected ending comes around. The story is about Donata- a 14 year old daughter of a rich Venetian merchant.She grows up secluded in the family's palazzo-away from the real world, education, learning, and everyhting that has to do with men.However, as she is gettin golder her mother is planning to wed away some of her daughters, the rest to be sent away to a convent-one of the brides being the beautiful Donata.Before it is too late and Donata is kept in a house with children forever, she decides to experience the Venice thta her brothers and all men in her family have ever known. Dusguising herself as a boy and having hert twin sister Laara act as her while she is gone, Donata visits the vast city. She even befriends a Jewish man who runs a newspaper-and decides to be an employee and learn to write and read as she earns money.Everyday she goes out to the Jewish ghetto and every night she returns home in time for dinner. However, the story isn't all fun and adventure. Donata's mother thinks that Donata is doing all of the work Laura is doing(Laura is doing her chores and Donata's).So, Donata is to be amrried when Laura deserves it.After taking lessons with her brothers from a private tutor, learning to write at a newspaper, and becoming more educated thna any other girl in her family-Donata hatches a plan-a plan that could destroy her family and have them cast out of Venice.But Donata does it for love of her sister, Laura. I really enjoyed this book and it really used a lot of helpful Italian, showed you Italian history, and told a story that is truly genuine and well thought up and written. I recommend this book to all historical fiction fans. <br />I also reccomend-Dear America, Royal Diaries, Young Royals, all of Donna Jo Napoli's books-especially Sirena and Beast	2002-10-20
US	38776718	RQOWO1UXXQU1S	0439164842	901356185	Eleanor: Crown Jewel of Aquitaine, France, 1136 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Best Royal Diary ever!	I thought this book would be boring and bought it early at a September bookfair to complete my Royal Diaries collection, but when I read it-I found it too be better than Gregory's earlier Royal Diary-Cleopatra.Not only better thna Cleopatra, but better than any of the Royal Diaries! The story follows the teenage years of Eleanor, the oldest daughter of the duke of Aquitaine-a French duchy.As a teenage girl-Eleanor lives a life in her father's many castles-particularly Poitiers and Talmont-by-the-Sea under the education of her Grandmere (Grandmother) along with her dearest sister, Petronilla. Over the years we see the beautful and artistic court of Aquitaine-which is very genuine considering the courts of other countries are artless and dank places. Anyway, we hear stories of Eleanor's past-filled with tragic deaths-including her four-year-old brother's which is heartbreaking.We hear Eleanor's love interest over a knight-Clotaire the Stronger and we even get to experience her strong and fantasy like relationship with Petronilla.However, after her father's many careless and artistic years as Duke of Aquitaine, he begins to become a religious man and decides to take a religious pilgrimage to a cathedral in Spain.Taking his daughters only as far as Bordeaux, he dies only months later of food poisoning he contracted from uncooked fish. Eleanor is placed under the guardianship of the King of France-Louis VI.Since Eleanor now holds more land than the king-Louis marries Eleanor to his son-14 year old Louis VII.Eleanor instantly falls in love with him.Although she meets him in the most unexpected spot-she is in the lake having jumped in with so much excitement.A shirtless boy with golden hair and a tanned chest helps her out.Only thne doe sshe realize it's her teenage husband. We then begin to hear of her love for Louis and his for her and their secret meetings. The story ends only a few days after the marriage of the two teens-who travel on their wedding night to secure a castle that endsin a military tragedy.It's not the romance Eleanor imagines.The last entry is when Eleanor finds out Louis's father-the king-died of dysenterry and now she is the queen of France and Aquitaine with her husband at her side! This is a romantic and lively story that is well-written researched, full of great vocabulary, gives a great insight on Eleanor's later life, and shows the world of the wonderful court of the duchy of Aquitaine.This book is great and everyone should read it!-don't just buy it to finsih the collection.	2002-10-15
US	38776718	R2BQBKFHLGJ6WU	0439215994	786483575	Survival in the Storm: The Dust Bowl Diary of Grace Edwards, Dalhart, Texas 1935 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Awesome new Dear America-one of the best in the series!	The author may be 15 and she may not have needed to leave her hometown to write this book-but it is awesome! It takes place during the Dust Bowl in a small Texas town called Dalhart in 1935. Grace Edwards is a young teenager who's father grows crops, her mother is a housewife, and has a younger sister, Ruth. The girls attend a small school, where most of the families are all affected by the Dust Bowl-they are poor, have a hard life, and are very nice and mannered people.Except for a rich family's children-Sadie and her sisters. They are so mean and real that you just want to hit them and make them look like idiots. Anyway, Grace is used to the hardwork but when the Dust Bowl threatens to take her friends away-both to another state and to death, Grace and Ruth have a hard time surving. Grace does volunteer at a hospital for dust pneumonia victims, but it is so hard since most of the victims die, breaking Grace's heart.The ending is especially surprising and touching-you will never expect it so I won't say it here.Read the books to find out! This book is well researched and written, uses good vocabulary, is very educational, and is a true addition to the Dear America series. Don't just get this book to complete your collection, like I had done, read this book and enjoy it!	2002-10-15
US	38776718	R2VMLJKJXO9OYN	0152165231	526916054	Doomed Queen Anne	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Very interesting, but Beware Princess Elizabeth was better	The third intstallment in the Young Royals series takes us into the life of not a young princess of Henry VIII's court but instead, into the life of the mother of Elizabeth-Anne Boleyn.Born without great wealth and a known name-Anne is the outcast of her family, and insult.She was born with a sixth finger and a large mole on her neck.However, her sister Mary is the mistress to Henry VIII and her brother George will someday be something great-for he is a healthy and smart boy.Over the years, Anne is sent to live in France-but quickly moves to the Netherlands to be a lady-in-waiting to Queen Margaret. Not soon after, Anne is summoned back to France for the Field of Cloth and Gold-where King Henry VIII and the king of France will sign a peace proclamation. After meeting up with her sister, Mary-Anne returns soon after to England and becomes a member of Henry VIII's court.Over the years, she has many lovers,butone in particular causes her banishment from court and they are told never to see each other again.She lives back at her parent's house for the next year or so,when her parents recieve titles.Anne is allowed to come back to court for the celebration.It is here that Henry VIII catches Anne's eye and the two begin a secret romance. Henry sends Anne love letters and gifts-he visits her at night and sings songs to her. Anne is very happy. But the court is not.Catherien of Aragon is Henry's wife and she should be getting all of this attention-which is what all of the court believes. But Anne doesn't care and after a few years of him begging her to be his mistress-and she says no-he asks her to marry him!However, he already has a wife-Catherien of Aragon.So, he sends many men to the Pope and after many tries to get a divorce-the Pope refuses. So Henry sets up his own church and Catherien is banished to a convent.Anne is now queen-after a secret ceremony. Anne is soon after coronated and is pregnant. It's supposed to be a son but Anne loses the child. Anne becomes pregnant again and it is unfortunately a girl-Elizabeth I. Henry is upset with Anne but she is pregnant again and loses this child also-and it was a boy she lost, was what the phyisicians proved. Henry lose his love for Anne over this time and is already giving gifts and singing songs for his later wife-Jane Seymour.To marry Jane-he arrests Anne and her brother, George, and a few others. They are to be tried for adultery and treason. Although not one of them committed these crimes-they are all found guilty and are to be executed. <BR>     I thought this book was great, well-written and very accurate and descriptive but I thought Beware, Princess Elizabeth was better.This book covered all of Anne's life and is shorter than Elizabeth-which only covered about ten years of Elizabeth's life. Although I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes royalty or historical ficiton-I'd say read Beware Princess Elizabeth first.I'm not saying this was a bad books-I'm just saying it isn't the best book in the series as far as suspense, plots, and the storyline goes.Congratulations to Carolyn Meyer on such a great book!	2002-10-05
US	38776718	R3QEEFT0EBDVV9	0152164561	29347266	Mary, Bloody Mary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mary I's sad childhood	I read this book quite some time ago but it has to be one of the best books I have ever read. Mary was born into a world of jewels, silks, and countless pleasures, despite the fact the she was not the son Henry VIII wanted so dearly. Showered with royal titles by the age of three, Mary was what every girl wnated to be-unitl her beloved father met Anne Boleyn, sister to his former mistress and lady-in-waiting to Mary's mother, Catherine of Aragon. Now, she fears for her jewels, titles, and above all-her life, every day! Mary is reduced from the richest girl in England to a servant, awarded no titles whatsoever, to become a bastard-illegitimate to the English throne. Although she achieves a commoner's title compared to a royal's, Lady, she declares that she will become a queen,and get rid of her new sister, Elizabeth. She can't help but loving this little baby, but she must hold back the love, in order to achieve her goals. Now living in the servant's quarters to Elizabeth( Mary, who is seventeen, is Elizabeth's servant while Elizabeth is a few months old!) Mary achieves the kindness of her former nursemaid and other servants and escapes the dreadful prison of serving her baby sister. This is a sad story- one of the girl everyone has hated for her religious intolerance, Bloody Mary. But when you finish this book, you will love Mary and pity her, and hate Anne and Elizabeth. But when you read the sequel Beware Princess Elizabeth, you will definetly hate Mary instead! This is one of Meyer's best works, and as a devoted Royal Diary fan, it is better than her two titles-Anastasia and Isabel. I highly recommed this book to anyone of historical interest or fans of English history. Make sure to read the sequel and the third book-Doomed Queen Anne!	2002-09-09
US	38776718	R3K1B6FEZ7SKPM	0439148898	417011436	Where Have All the Flowers Gone?: the Diary of Molly MacKenzie Flaherty	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Good Book, But too political	While the Dear America books are supposed to represent girls in important events of our past, this particular diary takes a certain turn and takes place about 30 years ago, in one of the most devastating times in history-the Vietnam War. ...  I think that this book was really great, but, it starts to die down about halfway through, which made me kinda disappointed and angry that I spent ($$$) on it. I personally think her other two books in the Dear America series were much better. But, if you are a true Dear America fan, like myself, you should buy this to complete your collection and it wouldn't hurt to give this book a try!	2002-09-04
US	38776718	R14LCLS8IDHFJB	0590511416	178284881	A Time For Courage: The Suffragette Diary of Kathleen Bowen, Washington, D.C. 1917 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Truly the best of the Dear America books!	I'm usually one to say that the newest Dear America book is the best but after I have re-read all of them and read the newest ones that just came out-I'd have to say that this was the best one. Kathleen is a teenage girl whose world has suddenly fallen into WWI. She lives in the constent fear that her father will have to go to war, that she will never see her cousin again, and that her mother will be arrested for picketing outside the White House and other landmarks for the women's right to vote. Kathleen attends a private ladies' school, with her cousin, until she has to leave for her grandmother's, whom she dislikes. In the dead of the night, her cousin escapes and runs off to France to be a nurse. Now, Kathleen has lost her best friend. However, she still has her other school friends, who make fun of one girl who has a German last name and ask if she plans to change it. In the midst of her own troubles, women are starting to be arrested from the pickets and even he rmom lands in an infamous jail. She and her family visit their beloved mother but Kathleen become svery upset when she learns that her mother can't make the school award show. However, Kathleen gets a surprise. This is truly a good book and anyone who likes Dear America books or historical fiction should read this. Out of all of Kathryn Lasky's Dear America and Royal Diaries, this one has got to be the best!	2002-09-04
US	38776718	R12XEN4I5MYTX3	0439223504	83106131	The Royal Diaries: Jahanara, Princess Of Princesses: India, 1627 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Lasky is better suited with Western royalty	While Kathryn Lasky has written four books from the Royal Diaries series(12 books as of right now, she is better suited with writing on princesses of the European and Western world. Her stories of Marie Antoinette, Elizabeth I, and Mary, Queen of Scots were excellent. They shows these girls in a perspective as if they were real-they would write about things but they wouldn't sit there and describe them as if the diary actually were to learn what the object was. However, Jahanara-Princess of Princesses failed to uphold that Lasky belief. While Lasky was unfamiliar with the Moghul world of which she was writing, she still amde it very believable and real, except that Jahanara described things just a little too much. While that is disturbing at times, the story turned out to be pretty good. The diary takes place right before her father takes the Moghul throne as Shah Jahan, which he does by faking his death. We follow Jahanara into her grand palace, where everything is covere din jewels. These people ahd so many jewels they covered their bathtubs in them! Yet, Jahanara didn't have what she truly wanted-freedom. She must stay in the harem forever in her childhood, behind screens of purity and heavy veils. The only day she can go out she must wear her heaviest veils-at the Flirting Bazaar. However, she gets over her desires by diving into he rlessons, religion, and affairs of the palace, including great wars and beautiful weddings. However, it is not all jewels and palaces. The great Snake-Nur Mahal had taken Jahanara's brothewr as hostages and returned them-one know a devout but evil Muslim and a learned young boy who deserves to be on the throne. Nur Mahal takes her Muslim nephew and trains him along with Raushanara, Jahanara's younger sister, in her evil ways, which cost many live sin the future. The story is very gripping and sad at the end when the beloved mother of Jahanara dies in childbirth that you almost wish the diary would go on much longer, almost a slong asthe Lady of Chiao Kuo royal diary. The book wasn't a big failure but it wasn't anywhere near as realistic as the other Lasky books. The book includes a note on Jahanara's later life, the Mughal Emnpire, a family tree, glossary, and pictures. Can't wait for Eleanor-Crown Jewel of Aquitaine!	2002-08-30
US	38776718	RDDF46OF24QN6	0439129109	563107528	Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets, Massachusetts - Rhode Island, 1653 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	I Thought this Book was Never Published!	Even though this book is said to have never been published, I finally found a copy of it.This is the story of the young Indian girl named Weetamoo. She is the daughter of the chief of the Pocasset Indians, who once lived in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. In her new diary, Weetamoo tells of her Indian life, the colonies that are now threatening her land, and the brewing war between the colonists and the Indians, that would soon become known as King Philip's War, in which Weetamoo would drown in as she tried to escape when she was an adult. Other than the dark subjects of this story, you are also introduced to Indian life. The rituals that the young girls take, the food,clothing, houses, all of the pieces of survival are seen here but in a different kind of way. While the other Royal Diaries' princesses live in big luxurious mansions and chateaus and palaces, Weetamoo lives in a small tribe of long houses and other Indian homes. I thought this book was exceptionally good. It lives up to the best of the Royal Diaries-it shows Weetamoo's true character, her teenage life, how she used her head to deal with things, and how she is to deal with her father's preparations for her to marry. Weetamoo had quite a life , but she enjoyed it. I would say anyone who is a true fan of the Royal Diaries should read this, don't just buy it to complete your collection, which I have all 12 now(and I'm now awaiting Jahanara). the first few pages are boring and there are some dull moments every now and then, but, hey, maybe her life really was dull and boring, that's what the Royal Diaries are about-bringing boring princesses to life. This book includes an epilogue, a historical note, pictures, and a family tree, all in the back. <br />Also recommended-all of the Royal Diaries books(except for Cleopatra, which is too political, Nzingha, which you can finish in an hour it's so short, and Sondok, which was too dull and most of it was made up anyway), the Young Royals series, the Dear Americaseries, and any book on Pocahontas	2002-07-04
