US	38782199	R3NGI89K0DVAPE	0816305250	615511355	The Great Controversy	Books	5	58	69	N	N	It is like it is happening right now!	This could be a little daunting to read if you are a Catholic, (I am not, but my spouse and children are and many of my friends as well) as there are some negative points made against the Catholic Church.  Never the less, she made some very interesting points that should be looked at and ruminated over.  She has a great gift at writing so that everyone can understand her meaning, which is something I have found more difficult with some of the other writers on religion.  <br />She was considered a prophet and had written this book almost a century ago and it is amazing how closely and accurately the events that she has prophesised about have fallen into place.  It is almost like reading today's paper or watching current events on TV.<br />As I have just finished reading the Bible, I found that her book went right along with it.  A couple of things that I found of interest is her claim of the heresy of the church changing the day of the Sabbath to Sunday, which actually I have always wondered about myself, and of churches using Idols-like Mary, etc. both of which when I read the bible, I found was a big no-no.  Jesus said that none of his Father's laws were to be changed and then there was mentioned in other places in the Bible that &quot;the times and laws they will be a changing&quot; (or something like that).  So it did make me wonder, are we celebrating the wrong day for the Sabbath?  <br />Also, it was interesting to note that years ago, the scriptures themselves, were kept from the public and only the priests had access to them.  It did indeed sound like, through Satan's influence (the best way that he messes with people's beliefs is when he can do it through a false religious front) that good, God-fearing Christians could have been led astray and not even have realized it.  This is where everyone should read the Bible for themselves, and that way, they know exactly what it says and what to look our for.<br />She is very good at describing the ways and means that Satan implements is evil ways.  From inside the church, to friends, bribery, etc. nothing is missed by Satan when he looks for ways to mislead the people.<br />If you want a good look at the end of times and the way it could very possibly end, this is an excellent book to read.  She is very good at explaining everything.  She stresses the Word of the Bible as the definitive answer.  Enjoy!	2004-05-16
US	38782199	R2UOX6ERB363TT	0842332286	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind No. 8)	Books	1	3	6	N	N	a book of fiction that too many people take as truth!	It absolutely amazes me that so many people believe what is written in these books, especially this one!  If you want to know about the truth about the end of times, read the Bible, it has it all there, with bits and pieces of the information scattered throughout the Bible.  When this book showed the man getting the Mark of the Beast EVEN though he was a Christian and that he would still be saved, that was the biggest eye-opener of all that this book was full of lies.  The Bible says that ANYONE who receives the mark will not get to heaven.  You are either for God through Jesus OR you are for Satan, there is no compromising.  You cannot deny your belief in Jesus and expect to get to heaven.  These are dangerous books for Christians to read because they are full of hidden agendas.  I cannot recommend even as a book of fiction!	2004-05-13
US	38782199	R13ZR8WX31JFGV	1576734641	333056739	The Gift for All People	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautiful testimony of God's love for us!	I don't know if I can do justice in this review, but I will give it my best.  This is one of the best books ever on showing us how much God loves us through his gift of Jesus.  The author  has written a book in a clear and simple and yet, amazing manner, that shows us clearly how much He loves us and how, through Jesus, our Lord, who took on all our sins and through our belief in Jesus we all can receive eternal life with him.  I found myself reading the book in just a morning's time and felt so uplifted and comforted.  Beautiful stories with many quotes from the Bible verifying and showing us the way to salvation-all we have to do is believe in Jesus.  Is that so hard?  It is our choice to make.  He doesn't use trickery or lies like Satan does to get people to follow his wicked ways, but tells us straight out what we need to do for salvation and he gives us the choice to make our own decision who we want to follow.  He will be there for us always anytime we turn to him, he will be there waiting.  Enjoy!	2004-05-01
US	38782199	R1LP7PW0SR283Q	1883012589	678855880	The Bible Study Companion Set: Making the Bible Come Alive	Books	5	40	40	N	N	I cannot recommend it enough!	If you want help to understand the Bible better, then this book is phenomenal!  It is written in such a clear manner that everyone can understand.  It covered the first part of the Bible through David's time.<br /> I read the Bible as I was reading the book and found that it coincided with it.  It opened my eyes to many of the events that happened during those times.  Did you know that when Moses lead the people out of Egypt that God showed them the way as a pillar of a cloud during the day and was a pillar of fire at night and fed them manna from heaven every day except on the Sabbath and then he gave them double the day before so that no one would work on the Holy day.  He also gave them water from the Rock of Christ.  (There were like six hundred thousand or more to begin with and ended up being probably a million or more after 40 years of wandering)  She explained that as long as the people kept their faith in God and didn't turn to sin they were protected by him.  One of their enemies discovered that fact and decided the only way that they could defeat the Jewish people was by causing them to sin and then when the people, through their actions (sinning), rejected God and his teachings, then they were vulnerable and could be defeated.  I find that very true today.<br />This is one of the best books I have ever read that explained to me why certain events happened and how and why they worshipped a certain way, etc.  <br />I am not an Adventist and did not find that it promoted that Church necessarily, but rather found it enlightening for any person who believes in God or especially those who want to know more about Him.  She does not promote the book over the Bible, the Bible is God's Word and that is first and foremost the only true and accurate message, but she does help us understand it better.  I highly recommend this book especially if you read it and the Bible, like I did, together.  It will bring you a much greater understanding of God and why he does things.  She also has other books that she has written that are good.  She wrote them a century ago and they are as relevant and appliable today as they were then.  Enjoy!	2004-04-30
US	38782199	R3K9PAQ26LCIFJ	0739307312	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	1	36	84	N	N	probably better if you read the book	I read his other book &quot;Angels And Demons&quot; and thought it was okay so I thought I would check this one out.  The library didn't have the book in so I checked the tapes out.  The book probably would have held my interest more than the tapes did.  As it was, I don't know how many times I stopped the tape because it didn't hold my interest and because I would find myself thinking about something else.  It is natural for that to happen once in a while but it was continuous.  Then when I got to the part of Mary Magdelene supposedly carrying Jesus's child, etc., I almost gave up listening to it completely, but I had to remind myself that it was just fiction.  After that it did get a little more interesting (although I still had to stop the tape and rewind it because I missed something).  During the last part of the last tape I fell asleep and gave up.  The book just was not realistic or believable enough for me to enjoy.  I am not sure why it has been so popular.  If you are someone who enjoys farout whacko theories then you will probably enjoy it.	2004-04-25
US	38782199	R2O064XUNKZVSM	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	5	19	25	N	N	are we sheep that we believe everything we're told?	After reading this book, you will not listen to the news again without wondering if you are being given a spin or what.  Basically we are lied to all the time.  We are manipulated by those that control the media and Chomsky points out time and again many examples of how it has been done.  I don't know about you, but I am tired of listening to the news and wondering how much of it is just propaganda and how much we can believe.<br />Chomsky is brilliant!  Everyone should read this book and then they will at least get a better idea of how many of the events that have happened are not always quite what the media led us to believe.  Look a little deeper and use your own minds to come to your own conclusions.  Enjoy!	2004-04-09
US	38782199	R1RQZEB4IDC12X	0451203070	507507459	Tending Roses (Tending Roses Series, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;maybe you should want less&quot; says her grandma	Beautiful and inspiring.  Kate Bowman and her husband, Ben, and their baby Josh, go to stay with her grandmother who is getting senile and unable to take care of herself.  They are to try and prepare her grandmother to accept the fact that she will have to leave the farm and go to a resthome.  Kate's family have drifted apart and there are some hard feelings felt that need to be addressed among them and hopefully when they all come for Christmas things will get straightened out.  <br />Although Kate has gone to influence her grandmother, what she learns from her grandmother is more than she bargained for.  Kate and her husband have accumulated many bills from an unexpected health problem of their baby and house, boat, etc. payments are due and they are fighting to keep their heads above water.  When she confesses her problems to her grandmother, her grandmother replies, &quot;maybe you should want less.&quot;  Is this not true for all of us, in some form or another.  How many of us think we have to have the big t.v.s, boats, swimming pools, cars, etc. and end up taking a loan out or use the credit card to buy them and then end up in debt and if we'd just not want as much how much better off we would be.<br />We learn from reading the book that sometimes we don't see the real important things in life until it is too late.  Stop and smell the roses and look around and see what we are blessed with and be grateful.  It is sometimes the small things that end up being the most important.  Family, friends and most important of all is God, through Jesus Christ, and the grace he has given us.  As I say this, the book itself, is not a preachy book but one that will open up your hearts and make you think.  Enjoy!	2004-04-05
US	38782199	R38C40R918PR70	0834003465	869705717	Boldtext Pew Bible: King James Version	Books	5	8	23	N	N	read the book so that you can know the truth!	I have to be honest.  I have gone on spurts where I have been faithful in studying the Bible and then have gotten away from reading it, while never losing my faith in God and Jesus, but I have been led astray.  And why and how?  Because Satan is constantly working to lead us astray.  I am now reading the Bible again and it has enlightened me to why all this turmoil in the world is happening.  The Bible says evil will rule the world but we must remain righteous to the end and we will win through God's love.  All you have to do to see Satan's work is to turn on the t.v., watch the world events, etc. and then read the Ten Commandments and see if we are following them.  I especially was interested in Deuteronomy and the Revelations and of course, the whole Bible.  I will admit that sometimes it can be hard to understand and that is why I ask for guidance from Jesus because he is the light.  I found that there were a lot of things that I was doing wrong that I hadn't realized and wished that I had been more diligent in my study of the Word of God sooner.  In conclusion, I had to ask myself, do I want to live in a world of righteousness and God's love or a world of evil?  It didn't take me any time to find my answer.  I highly recommend reading the Bible.  It will show you the light.  It is sad that so many have been deceived by Satan.  May God bless you all!	2004-03-21
US	38782199	R21OOMUKN1EZBQ	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	5	4	5	N	N	what a heartwarming eye-opener!	Mark Salzman writes of his experiences while teaching in China.  His book reminded me a little of the Tony Hillerman and &quot;The No. 1 Detective Agency&quot; series in that they all give us a look at an entirely different culture that many of us know little about.  He is a martial arts student and continued learning from masters in China during his stay as a teacher.<br />In some ways we could learn a little from their polite culture and they could learn from ours.  They are a much more family oriented than I realized, children remaining with their parents until married in many cases and they are more respectful of their parents and others around them than many of us are.  <br />Their homes did not compare in any way to what we are used to, but, you know, when you've never had it, you don't know what you are missing and as most of them were in the same circumstances, they do with what they have.  This is not to say that everything was great, because it wasn't, there were many things that could have been improved upon, but the book wasn't about that.  It was an account by the author of his experiences and friendships that he developed during his stay in China.  We get to know about a lovely group of individuals and how they lived and worked.  The politeness, and their way of showing hospitality was endearing. <br />I would have to say that Mark must have had a special touch also for them to react so warmly to him.  His sincere interest in their martial arts and learning their calligraphy, etc. drew their support also.<br />If you'd like to know more about how many of the people live and their customs this is a wonderful book that will give us a good unbiased view of them.  Highly recommended!  Enjoy!	2004-03-21
US	38782199	R2EK57W1LV36WF	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	1	N	N	different and exciting thriller	This is quite a change from the mysteries that I am used to reading.  I found it quite intriguing.  A scientist, who has discovered antimatter, a highly volatile discovery, that has the qualities of being highly beneficial to society or extremely dangerous, if in the wrong hands, has been murdered and the antimatter stolen.  When he was found, he had the word illumanati burned on his chest and one of his eyes cut out.  The scientist is one of many who work at a scientific research center.  While most scientists seem to be atheists, he was a christian scientist trying to prove they could all work for the same purpose.  <br />The cannister of antimatter, which is shown by a camera, is placed in an unknown place in the Vatican and if not found within twelve hours will blow it up and everyone present.  The Vatican has lost their Pope and are now in the process of electing a new one so the Vatican is full of important Cardinals, ect.  Four of the cardinals who are potential candidates have been kidnapped and the kidnapper, a representative of the Illumanati, has called the media and informed them that they will be killed and where it will happen.  <br />Robert Langdon, well known for his study of the Illumanati, has been called in to see if he can give them information to help solve the case.  The daughter of the man who was killed, who was also a partner in the discovery of the antimatter, wants revenge on the perpetrator.  They are summoned to the Vatican when the cannister is discovered on one of their cameras, but the location of the cannister is unknown.  They are desperately trying to find the Cardinals before they are killed.<br />The Illumanati are seeking revenge against the Catholic Church for the vileful acts perpetrated against them centuries ago.  It is a case of science versus religion.  Christianity is being attacked by the scientific community.  This is quite true today.  It is interesting to note that, while all God had to do was say let there be this orthat and there it would be, that Satan couldn't do that.  He has to use magicians, etc.  Scientists today still make their discoveries and cloning, etc. using material that God created.  What the scientists today have developed has come so far that many of the prophesies in the Bible could be created, making it hard to for people to differentiate who is doing what.<br />The author seemed to demonstrate in his book the fallibility of mankind, in both the scientific and the religious field.  Both had their downfalls.  In the end, it was not God, but man that was imperfect through Satan's influence.  <br />This was an exciting story that, if read as a fictional novel, will thrill the reader.  There is a surprising ending for the reader.  I think you will like it.  Enjoy!	2004-03-17
US	38782199	R16QP8GSOXRX7T	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	4	7	12	N	N	for God so loved the world!	This book shows the depth of God's love for all of us in a manner that is rather shocking and humbling for the human race.  Whenever I think of how much pain Jesus, completely innocent of all sin, went through so that we might all be saved, I, a sinner, feel unworthy and yet, God believed we were worthy of his love.  I thank and give him glory for what he did and only hope that I will be as strong in my faith that I will be worthy of his forgiveness.  <br />God knew and Jesus knew who would betray him.  There was a purpose that he would be betrayed by a Jew and it is shown in Romans 11.  If he had not been betrayed by a Jew then the whole world would not have been able to be saved, only the Jews.  This way, because he loves us all, we all can be saved.  The only Jews that Jesus warns us of are the 'false Jews' (who say they are Jews but are not) in Revelations who belong to the synagogue of Satan.  Read the Bible yourselves so that you can better understand.<br />This book is a start to show us the 'passion' that God feels for us and the suffering that Jesus endured for us.  The reason that it loses a star is that Jesus's teachings should have been stressed as much because they are equally important.  He was a gentle and caring person who cared about the poor and helpless and taught forgiveness and generosity to those in need.  He was not a violent man even though he was treated violently.  If he could suffer so much for us, can we do any better?  I urge everyone to get their bibles out and read about him-you have gone this far, now take the next step.  Enjoy!	2004-03-09
US	38782199	RZO5T1OBYKVCT	2226126686	103559066	Vector (Romans, Nouvelles, Recits (Domaine Etranger)) (French Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	relevant to  today	This book was amidst several books another booklover passed on to me.  I hadn't read his books before and for some reason I have been blessed with several of them from different people lately and as I am a booklover, I appreciated them all.  <br />The book was written in 1999 and was eerily prophetic to what happened on 9-11 in 2001, so it held my interest.  Of course, it is a different tale altogether, but still there is a similarity.<br />Yuri Davydov, a Russian taxi driver, who emmigrated to the U.S. to find the good life is very disillusioned at the failed promises of what he thinks the \\"Jewish media\\" (his paranoid delusion) had promised for those coming to America.  He can't find a better job than that of driving a taxi.  He had worked in a Bioweapons factory in Russia and figured he deserved better. <br /> He hooks up with a couple of white Aryans of the radical right militia belief who want to destroy the \\"the Zionist government\\" and are extremely prejudiced against anyone not white, etc.  They concoct a plan that the Aryans will supply Yuri with the materials and he would develop anthrax and a botulinum toxin. <br />Jack Stapleton and Laurie Montgomery, who are both in the pathologist forensics department, are presented with two separate cases that are seemingly unrelated until further investigation.  His case is the death of a man from anthrax and her case is about a young man that has been killed in a horrible manner as a result of what looks like his connection to a neo/Nazi gang.<br />I thought it was a rather interesting story and made me wonder at what causes so many evil thoughts and feelings in people  that they would want to do such cruel and inhumane actions.  It also makes you wonder about the scientists that develop these weapons and if they ever feel guilty about their satanic projects.  <br />The book makes you think and kept my interest to the end.	2004-02-16
US	38782199	R16AZSU3C3GWWI	0061030430	926968574	Long Time No See	Books	4	1	3	N	N	pulled me in like a fish to the bait	I really enjoyed this book.  It took me a little bit to get into the story but when I did, I kept on reading until I finished the book.  <br />Courtney Logan, who retired from a financial occupation to stay home with her family and, as a sideline, had developed a small business of her own, has disappeared.  She went to get some apples and although her vehicle was found in the garage she disappeared.  Five months later her body is found in the pool under the pool liner with two bullet wounds to her head.  <br />Judith, who is a history teacher and had lost her husband two years earlier, is a curious person.  Since the loss of her husband she has been at loose endes and finds she needs something to give her life meaning.  Years ago she had helped solve a mystery and felt the same stirrings in her to help get to the bottom of this one.  During the other case, she had an affair with a cop for six months and then broke it off because they didn't want to hurt their families and now he, Nelson Sharpe, is back on the scene.  They still have that old attraction to each other but will they follow their desires?<br />The police are looking at the husband but she doesn't think he did it and goes to him, Greg Logan, to offer her assistance.  He runs her off, but his father, &quot;Fancy Phil&quot; Lowenstein, a mob boss, finds out and asks her to help.  Greg had changed his name so that people wouldn't know who his father was and be judged because of his father's occupation.  He was trying to lead a clean, honest life. <br />Judith questions several of Courtney's friends and acquaintances<BR>and finds a wide variety of descriptions of what kind of person Courtney was like. Each person seemed to see her a little differently.  Who was she?  Judith keeps digging for the truth and finds more questions than answers.  <br />She portrays her characters in a realistic manner with a good dose of humor, by which I mean, they are colorful characters who could have had better morals, but people we see all around us at times.  Hopefully not as frequently as we read in the book, but then this is only a book. <br />I highly recommend the book.  It is very entertaining.	2004-02-13
US	38782199	R160CW6CK35VR	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	okay if read as a novel	When I first read this book I thought it was interesting but it sure didn't go with what I remembered from the Bible.  In my Bible study groups we had not covered Revelations that much, so I had to go look up a few things.  I discovered that many of the evangelists use a Bible written by a man named Scofield.  He came from a dubious background.  Look him up on the internet.  While in prison for forgery, he converted to Christianity, of the Darbyite influence.  Anyway, he ended up writing a Bible using his interpretations of what it meant, so of course, then he has changed it to his liking.  <br />But what the authors are saying is that we, believers in Jesus, will receive this Rapture they are talking about instead of going through the tribulations, but the original Bible does not say this.  So I am wondering, if Armegeddon comes, and the Christians who believe what the authors are preaching, when they don't receive this Rapture when promised, will that make them turn away from God?  Is this more a Satanic than a Christian book?  I don't know, but I would suggest that before you take it as gospel, that you should look a little deeper.  Jesus warned of us the false prophets.  One thing good about the book is that it does make one want to get right with God.  You might want to read the book &quot;Forcing God's Hands...&quot; by Grace Halsell, she has written a book explaining how this evangelical belief started and what it means and it is truly scary for the people of this world.	2004-02-09
US	38782199	R3EZP79N152PO5	0451202244	184026856	Above the Law	Books	4	0	0	N	N	selfish reasoning to make a wrong into a right	I really enjoyed this book.  I will have to read more by this author.  In the beginning there is a small story, that, while interesting, wasn't necessary to the main story.  <br />The DEA has staked out a compound used by drug dealers in a remote area of the state in an effort to catch the leader of the drug dealers.  Information from a snitch within the group has it that a big deal is coming down and the leader, who they have been trying to catch for years, will be present.  Something goes wrong and the leader, who they do catch, escapes and then is found dead, shot by an unknown assailant.  Luke has been called in by the local DA to investigate and prosecute the culprit.  The local DA, Nora, is an old college friend from years ago.   The DEA gave the sheriff short notice about what was going on and his nose got bent out of shape as a result of being put on the sidelines.  There are numerous twists and turns to the story that will keep you wondering who dunnit until the end. I highly recommend the book.  Enjoy!	2004-02-09
US	38782199	R1Q93C4KY9M4W2	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	5	25	32	N	N	what you don't know can't hurt you can it?	I just got through watching this author on C-span and did I ever get a wake up call.  We wonder why terrorists would want to attack us.  We, the average person, have been completely in ignorance of what our government, in our name, has done to other people and countries.  We are lied to all the time.  They, the government, tell us that the actions they have taken are for the good of our country and other countries when in fact, it is just the opposite.  I will love my country till I die, but that does not mean I approve of all the actions certain officials have taken over the years, in its name.  Chompsky has done a wonderful job of enlightening the public on numerous details.  <br />He emphasises that many of his facts are easily checked and looked up.  It is the media and those behind it that choose what we hear on the news and so, if we want to know the facts, it is up to us to look them up.  Don't just believe every word we are told but check the facts.  He has provided us with a good start in this magnificent book.  What he has written is important to all of us regardless of party designation because what has happened and will happen is going to affect all of us.  I highly recommend the book!  Enjoy!	2004-02-08
US	38782199	R2VEETXCSNCA5H	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	56	58	N	N	we need to know more about the people we elect	For those of you one star reviewers that claim that this is just a bunch of lies, go check out his facts.  I easily found many of them by just Google searching, etc.  What he has done with this book has put it all together so that we have it displayed in one book.  This is an important book in that it does a wonderful job of showing us how the Bush family became so prominent and powerful and why it is not in the best interest of this country to have any one family, no matter who it is, in control of so much power.  After reading this book it is abundantly clear to me that we, the people, need to look very closely at the people we vote for and those that they represent, again, regardless of party.  Don't just believe what the politicians tell us, look to see what they have actually done to support the issues  they say they support.  <br />This is one of the best books out right now and I encourage any of you that are interested in our country and the history of the family that has become so prominent in our government and how they got to that point.  This is a book written by a Republican who cares about our country.  It is for all of us regardless of our party affiliation.	2004-02-05
US	38782199	R329N1WZVQZHOJ	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	21	22	N	N	a clear case of checking out the people you vote for	Kevin Phillips has done a wonderful job of showing us the Bush family and its rise to power.  So many others have given you a good look at the contents of the book so I will not go into depth about, but rather to say that through his book, the author has made it abundantly clear that we, the people, who elect those that are suppose to represent us, need to know more about the people we elect.  We need to know who they represent.  Too many of us vote for the party without even knowing the person we have voted for, what they stand for, etc. because that's what we've always done and we were too busy concentrating on our own lives to stop and bother with that annoying distraction.  That is what the politicians have been counting on. Now, we are paying for it.  So, the author didn't just give us a look at the Bush family and its rise to power, he gave us an incentive to look at who we vote for more closely, regardless of party.  I say this, because we have both good and bad politicians in both parties, we just need to dig a little.  What Kevin has written about in this book is something that we all could've found out if we'd taken the time to dig for it.  He just did us a great favor in putting it together for us in this very informative book.  I highly recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about our country and those who run it.  Enjoy!	2004-02-03
US	38782199	R3JZGOYLF99GMQ	0060926317	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under	Books	4	3	11	N	N	as fiction still fascinating!	The author states in her forward that this is not about all aboriginals but a small select group and they are what this  story pertains to.  It is listed as fiction and that is what it is. Even though it is fiction, it still has an important message to those of us who are open-minded and like to make up their own minds as to whether or not there is any validity in what she has to say.   <br />The author is summoned to Australia and invited to meet with an an aboriginal tribe.  She thinks it is going to be a luncheon deal and ends up going on a walk-about with them.  What she learned about the nature of these people and their beliefs was fascinating.  They were here for over 50,000 years, according to the author (doubtful), one of the first ever.  <br />She said they could communicate through telepathy and didn't need to speak because of the purity in their souls-also said because of their purity they didn't need Jesus (this is where we know for sure it is fiction).  We, the mutants, cannot because we have too much in our minds that we don't want others to see and want to hide from others, so we can't open up to telepathy.  Possessions are very important to us and to them it is not.  The simple life, void of jealousy, greed, stress, hate, etc. has made them a people who live to be a hundred and twenty years old.  When they finally decide that they want to move on to a new life and leave this one they have a celebration and then they just shut down their bodies and die and come to another phase in their being.  Interesting thought.<br />The things that they ate are certainly not what we would be used to and would make many of us gag at the thought, but it was interesting that while we tend to get senile and lose our eyesight and hearing as we age, they didn't seem to, they were very alert and healthy.  They had there own system of healing that, if true, would be absolutely amazing, but (?)....!  <br />It was interesting also, that, in their secret hide-a-way, they hadtheir history painted on their walls, showing that there had probably been nuclear testing and flying saucers indicating aliens-which at one time I thought could be possible, but upon reflection, I think they would have been man-made and if there were any odd looking characters flying them it would more likely be Satan's demons or the like.<br />According to her story, they have practiced environmental care for as long as they have been on earth and yet have now decided to not have anymore children because the earth is being destroyed an cannot sustain life much longer unless we take better care of it.  <br />She says she has been chosen to send their message with hopes that enough will listen.  I really enjoyed the book and know that there were many truths in it that we would benefit from, if heeded, and then there are some that each individual needs to realize that are subtle propaganda and dangerous to an unsuspecting Christian.  It is a book that will make you think.  Give it a try!	2004-01-26
US	38782199	R36YRF8OKPWY91	0849956242	796466203	1: Grace for the Moment: Inspirational Thoughts for Each Day of the Year	Books	5	16	17	N	N	reinforcement of God's love	This is truly a wonderful book.  For each day of the year there is an inspirational guidance and validation of God's love for us.  This is what is so important to all of us and what will save us all--Love...for the Bible says God is Love and through Jesus he gave us all that opportunity to receive it.  When I read his passage for the day it always brightens my day and my faith in his love for us.  It is a refreshing book to read.  Thank you Max. Enjoy!	2004-01-25
US	38782199	R31C04DJ8FN90T	0671016776	12366720	Gravity	Books	5	1	2	N	N	fantastic!	I was tired when I first started to read this book and didn't get all hot and bothered by it, so I set it aside for a day or two and picked it and started to read it again.  Boy, was I ever glad!  As I got into the story I couldn't put the book down.  I hadn't thought much about space stories before, so didn't know what to expect.  Emma Watson gets to go into space to study living beings in space.  While there, an experiment goes wrong and the space crew begin to die from it.  The organisms that are infecting the astronauts come from outerspace only they don't know at first what is causing the deaths.  It is as interesting to learn about what is involved with NASA, etc. as the storyline, especially, after hearing on the news years ago that there is life on Mars and the current interest of our government in going there.  I highly recommend the book.	2004-01-23
US	38782199	R2LDYDEN2W7PGF	0671553046	623937593	Life Support	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good medical thriller	If you enjoy medical thrillers, then you should like this book. Dr. Toby Harper works the ER night shift and admits a patient who is delirious and has tremors that are uncontrollable.  She is interrupted by another emergency and when she returns to her patient he is gone.  Then other patients turn up with similar symptoms and deaths and Toby is worried there is an epidemic starting, but when she tries to investigate, she is blocked, and then problems at home arise with the health of her mother who has alzheimers disease.  It looks like her mother was being poisened.  She is put on the police's suspect list.  Keeps you interested till the end.	2004-01-22
US	38782199	R33GE39LGVC6HT	0399132619	632834847	The Timothy Files	Books	4	4	4	N	N	great stories	This book was written several years ago, but it still packs a punch.  It contains three files or cases involving Timothy Cone, a private eye working for a company that investigates businesses for their clients.  He is an interesting character---he lives very simply in a cheap apartment (his bed is a mattress on the floor) with a neutered tomcat named Cleo, is having an affair with his manager, which no one knows about and is a little unusual, in that the way they communicate with each other is more on the rude side than lovey-dovey side.  It made for a rather entertaining story in itself and then the case files added along with it even more so.  I really enjoyed the book!	2004-01-20
US	38782199	R3K69ZZREA2K6J	055356823X	52934810	Amanda	Books	4	3	3	N	N	good mystery	I really enjoyed this story.  Kay Hooper did a wonderful job of entertaining the reader with a mystery that keeps you on your toes from the beginning to the end.  Amanda Daulton and her mother run away in the middle of the night to escape some kind of danger.  Years later Amanda turns up as the long lost granddaughter of Jessie Daulton.  Her mother has died and after discovering who she is, she wants to know what happened that fateful night.  Of course, since she has turned up, the other heirs are not too happy at the prospect of being disinherited.  One attempt on her life has occurred and there is the fear of more plus, Jessie's lawyer is not sure she is who she says she is, and keeps digging to find out more about her background, which has been extremely difficult because Amanda has not been as truthful as she could have been.  Kept me on my toes till the end.	2004-01-18
US	38782199	R31WNC2O58PCCU	1580170560	181451388	Keeping Entertaining Simple: 500 Tips for Carefree Gatherings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	fabulous!	Do you want to entertain but don't know how to go about it and not get stressed out?  This book is chocked full of good ideas for a variety of parties and hints to make them easier to manage.  There are also recipes included.  Simplicity is the key, but not always the most inexpensive way.  I appreciated the book because I like to enjoy celebrating with my friends without feeling too exhausted from the planning and getting ready for a party.  This book helps by giving many numerous tips to remember to plan for that we might not think about until it is too late.  Very good.  Enjoy!	2004-01-17
US	38782199	R2H4106FP3AL3Q	5555770804	938105645	Godplayer	Books	4	17	18	N	N	deciding who should live or die	I enjoyed the book.  The storyline was good but I thought the characters could have been developed a little more.  This is a medical mystery.  Cassandra Kinsley, who had been a pathologist resident but had switched to psychiatry because of her failing eyesight, is married to the top heart surgeon at the hospital.  Their marriage is getting a little rocky and Cassandra thinks its her fault and then she discovers that her husband is taking drugs to help keep him going with his hectic schedule.  To top it off, patients have been dying off that she and her former pathologist partner think is suspicious, but they haven't been able to discover how it is being done, then the pathologist dies after he has surgery and then when she has eye surgery she is almost killed.  The book is action packed to the end.	2004-01-17
US	38782199	R3BYKVIVP27ENK	0945946147	131126043	Treason: The New World Order	Books	5	39	46	N	N	horrifying and enlightening	This book will open your eyes.  If even a fourth of this book is true--and much of what I have found in other sources validates a lot of what I have read in this one, then we are indeed in a lot of trouble.  If you want to know about treason against this country and its people then this book is a good place to start.  It was written in 1996, so there was a couple of things that have come out that made a couple of facts questionable, but the vast majority of it seems to be factual.  The manipulation of the people into wars, experimentation of them unknowingly, treasonous actions against the country, etc. will curdle your blood.  The inhumanity of certain groups is hard to imagine for  decent people.  I only hope it is not too late for people to wake up and get their acts together.  Read this book!	2004-01-15
US	38782199	R2W34ZY591XMBS	0425136191	422763605	Blindsight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	three and one-half plus stars	I enjoyed reading the story.  The story or mystery, itself, was very interesting, but some of the characters could have been better developed.  Laurie Montgomery is a forensic pathologist who has noticed that several people have come to the morgue who have O.D. but are not known drug users.  Because of the similarities in their deaths, she thinks that there is some bad drugs on the streets that are lethal.  She wants to warn the public but doesn't get any help from her boss and the police so she does some investigating on her own.  Meanwhile, bodies are piling up in the morgue that look like mafia hits, but the police can't find any connection.  I found the story interesting and if you want a good quick read this book should do very well.  Enjoy!	2004-01-15
US	38782199	R29JMH4D6I6S79	0446350109	467034537	Windmills of the Gods	Books	5	7	8	N	N	excellent!	He has written a book that is so close to real life that it will scare the pants off you!  The newly elected president decides he wants to develop a better relationship with countries of the old cold war, Romania especially.  Instead of a trained person for the ambassador job, he picks a teacher from a Kansas school, who specializes in that area in her studies.  He read an article she had written and since what she had written was also his views, he asks her to take the job.  At first she declines because of her family and her husband's commitments to his patients (he is a doctor), but after he dies in a mysterious car accident, she decides to take the job.  <br />There are many who don't like the idea of Romania and the U.S. getting buddy buddy and a secret group from around the world, including those in the U.S., work to sabotage the presidents efforts.  They hire an assassin, who has never been defeated to take out several key people.  <br />Mary Ashley, the ambassador, is turning out to be quite successful at her job, and is the target of an assassination.  She doesn't know who to trust.<br />This is interesting all the way to the end and keeps you guessing.  Enjoy!	2004-01-11
US	38782199	R1ZR0RVAKBS7BD	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	1	3	N	N	heart-wrenching and uplifting	What an inspiring story!  A younger man takes his last class from his teacher of many years ago, who is dying from a fatal illness.  The class is about learning the meaning of life and they have their meetings on Tuesdays.  Morrie Schwartz decided that he wasn't going to give up on life, but to live it to the fullest and share his life and love with as many of his friends and acquaintances that he could in the time that was left.  Mitch was one of those blessed.  When you know you are going to die you learn what is really important in life.  It is not what we have been told repeatedly-that to be happy one must have more and more, that money and power would bring us happiness, no...what is important is to be able to love others and to work at helping others and taking an interest in those around you.  It is true, but also it can be hard to let your defenses down and just trust in the power of love, but when you do, even if it is for just a short while, the over-whelming feeling of well being in your body and soul is amazing.  While I was reading the book I shed a few tears but when I finished I felt blessed and uplifted.  The simple life is not so bad when you are surrounded by those you love and who love you.	2004-01-09
US	38782199	R1JB7N38U4UJ8Y	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	what a thought provoking book!	This story could be about any of us with just a little substitution of each of our life's story.  This is about an 83 year old man who dies trying to save a little girl's life.  Instead of going directly to heaven he meets five people who, through some connection to each other, have made a difference and have been influencial in how their lives developed.  He thought his life was meaningless and yet was shown that he indeed was right where he should have been and that he had indeed been an important and needed person.  Sometimes we all feel that we are not important and yet, unknown to us, there are many in this world we have touched and those who have touched and influenced us unknowingly.  It is always hoped that it will be a positive and good influence.  The book will touch your heart and give you faith in your place on earth.  Enjoy!	2004-01-08
US	38782199	R3S98CE1B5MHZK	0743255755	212319343	Had Enough?: A Handbook for Fighting Back	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Read this book!	I saw Carville on C-span and he was great.  He tells us to stick with the main themes that the Bush team has done wrong instead of nit picking over too many things (I know there are a lot of them but they can be worked on later).  He tells us what they are and how to fight and argue back.  If they start on gays, or whatever, don't be distracted go back and hit them with the facts about the deficit, losing our constitutional rights, getting the country back into the hands of the people instead of corporations, etc.  It is these policies that matter.  Pull together if you want this country to remain a country with individual rights.  Look to see which of your congressional members voted for the patriot act,if they voted for it, then don't vote for them because it isn't just your rights that is in jeopardy, but it also keeps you from knowing what's going on with the terrorists.  Buy the book, enjoy his recipes and fight to save our country.	2004-01-07
US	38782199	R3PEW6MA7FKBW9	0006391893	43010755	Rebecca's Tale	Books	4	0	0	N	N	intriguing	I don't remember reading the previous book so this review stands on this book alone without any comparisons.  I found it fascinating and full of family intrigue.  The year is 1951, twenty years after the death of Rebecca DeWinter and the question still remains-was it a suicide or murder and who was she really?  She was a woman whose description is as varied as the observers.  She was a beautiful woman who was so memorable, that twenty years after her death she is still a person of interest to many inquiring minds.  Several people have tried to find out the truth about her death for various reasons and the book tells the story from four different views; including the story of Rebecca, written by Rebecca, herself, (the books have mysteriously been sent to Colonel Julyan), by Colonel Julyan, who secretly had been enamored by Rebecca years ago, by his daughter Ellie, and by Terence Gray, a young unknown scholar with his own personal reasons in finding information about Rebecca.  It keeps you guessing and interested to the very end of the book.  Now I will have to go get the other books as this book was so interesting to me.	2004-01-07
US	38782199	R3ETTO0MXLE6WG	0684825457	198201531	It Takes A Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us	Books	4	15	21	N	N	investing in the future	While there were a few things that I may have disagreed with, the main theme I found in the book is that it takes a widening circle of people, etc. to promote the healthy development of our children.  This is very true.  One of the other reviewers said that the parents was all that children needed to take care of them, but I disagree, because that child is not going to be with his parents twenty-four hours every day of his life.  They are going to have friends, and numerous experiences as they are growing up that the parents can't always control.<br />She talked about so many things from her experiences to raising her own child, to their emotional needs, nutritional needs, etc.  Some things were about government help that some people have said was socialist, but I guess I would rather some of my taxes went to save and help the children and people of our country than spending it on an unnecessary war.  As these children are going to grow up one day and be the back-bone of our country, then I don't think looking out for them and doing a good job of raising them to be responsible, balanced human beings is a bad investment.  While I say this, I am not condoning a welfare state, but sometimes people really do need help and encouragement.  When you have been lucky to have been raised in a wealthy environment you have no idea how hard it is for someone who has had nothing for most of their lives and no way to afford college, etc.  A single mother with children who needs day care can't always afford to pay both the day care fees and the day to day expenses on a minimum paying job.  If we all worked together looking out for each other, the world would be a lot better place.<br />Anyone who gives a one star hasn't read the book, and if they have and still do, and say they are conservatives, then they are going against what conservatives say they stand for-family values.	2003-12-29
US	38782199	R1LT1SIVWGWV3Y	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	0	1	N	N	this is what America should be about	I saw this story as a movie before I read the book and I have found both to be very entertaining.<br />A young, pregnant woman is abandoned at a Wal-Mart in Oklahoma by the father of her baby.  She is seven months pregnant and has seven dollars and seventy-seven cents to her name.  (The number seven has been an unlucky number for her all her life.)  She meets three people while she is in the Wal-Mart parking lot that offer her friendship and which end up being her extended family.  For the first months she secretly lives in Wal-Mart store until the birth of her baby which takes place there.  She gets nation-wide media attention because of the unusual situation and a job offer from Sam Walton himself.<br />She is befriended by the people she met that first day and then many others that she meets.  They all help her take care of the baby and give her support.<br />The boyfriend who dumps her ends up going down a path of misfortune that one tends to do when they are only concerned about themselves and not with the consequences of their actions.<br />When I said this is what America should be about, I meant the generosity and caring of those people, that met Novalee and learned of her problems, who gave and worked together to help her out and her reciprocy-being there when someone needs help.  They didn't have a lot but they shared and did what they could.  This would be a much better world if more people would be like that.<br />This was a really interesting book and I highly recommend it.	2003-12-29
US	38782199	R3UYK3YC6VMCBB	0446531332	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	tear jerker	If I could've given it three and a half stars I would have done that, but four stars it is.  This is the first book I have read by this author so I don't know how it compares to his others, but from what I read from the other reviews they were better.  I found that tissues would indeed come in handy when I read the book.<br />After years of marriage Adrienne Willis's husband leaves her for another woman and with the biggest share of taking care of their three children.  She is devastated.  To get away for a while and make some extra money, she takes care of a Bed and Breakfast Inn for a friend of hers for a few days.  The only guest staying is a doctor who has sold his medical practice and is going to Ecuador to work with his son and try to make amends for years he neglected his son.  Of course, they are drawn to each other and fall in love.  They both feel it is important that he goes to Ecuador to make amends.  He will be gone for a year and they will have their letters to each other to get better acquainted. <br />Fifteen years later, Adrienne is sixty and still single, but now it is her daughter who is devastated because of the death her young husband to cancer.  Amanda is having such a hard time coping with her loss that her children are not getting the attention and care that they need and Adrienne feels she needs to step in and help. She asks her daughter to come over for a talk, hoping that by telling her story that it will help Amanda to realize what she is doing.<br />There weren't any big climatic surprises but it was an enjoyable, if somewhat a sad story.	2003-12-27
US	38782199	RRBDYEB4KFHPK	0849937280	489484769	The Strand	Books	5	1	2	N	N	&quot;you are alive&quot; he answers	This book has a little bit of everything from a murder mystery to so much more, and when you've finished reading the book, if you are the kind of person who likes to look deeper than the surface of a story this book will give you that incentive. <br />Anne Lorelli is a woman who has what many woman would like, a comfortable wealthy life with a successful husband.  She has everything on the surface materialistically, but underneath the facade of her marriage, the love and companionship she desires is not there anymore.  It is ironic that on the eve of their wedding anniversary, while they took a stroll along the river, they are accosted by a couple of muggers.  When her husband tries to stop them from taking her necklace, he is killed.  It seems to be a simple robbery/homicide case at first but evidence comes to light that reveals it is much more than just that.<br />Tom Hogan, the detective, was suspicious about Anne's reaction to the death of her husband-she was too cold, and yet he is drawn to her. <br />Anne finds solace from new acquaintances, a couple of holocaust victims and a group she has agreed to help as a volunteer in a neighborhood that is in a seedy area.<br />The story kept me involved throughout the story.  It contained stories within the main story-like surviving the holocaust, surviving in a drug and gang related neighborhood and the dark secrets of the successful, family revelations of sorrow-no one was immune, no class of people left out. It also is a story that gives one the feeling of hope and faith.  I highly recommend it.	2003-12-26
US	38782199	R1XSB822LA8V32	0671004530	362049018	On the Street Where You Live	Books	4	0	0	N	N	reincarnation of evil?	I really enjoyed reading this book.  It held my interest from the very beginning to the end.  <br />Emily Graham has sold her stocks she held in the company a friend owned, that had done well, and is now rich.  Because of an exhausting and exasperating year: her ex-husband had tried to sue her for part of the money and she had been the victim of a stalker the year before and was also going to be starting a new job as a defense lawyer in a law firm, found she wanted to put down roots of a sort.  She visited the home her ancestors owned in the 1890's and fell in love with it and had the chance to buy it and snapped it up.  <br />There was a history of the mysterious disappearances of three young women (one, a relative of hers) during the 1890s that was never solved and now the same thing seems to be happening again, and people are questioning and wondering if the evil person who caused the earlier disappearances has been reincarnated.  The family, who owned the house she bought, were in the process of building a pool and Emily decided to continue with the project and, low and behold, what do they find in the backyard but the bodies of her ancestor who disappeared over a hundred years ago and the body of the young woman who recently disappeared and in the hand of the recently deceased is the finger and ring of the young girl who died long ago.<br />Emily is determined to find out what happened to the young women who disappeared years ago and to connect the events of then to now.  In the midst of all these goings on, she finds herself being stalked again by some unknown person or did they get the right stalker before?<br />Others are murdered and we have several suspects to wonder about as the story unfolds.  Highly entertaining!  A good book to read on a rainy afternoon.	2003-12-24
US	38782199	R187NU0K8ODBHN	0688040330	704973044	Millie's Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush	Books	5	5	5	N	N	how can you not like it?	I ran across this book that I had bought a few years ago and once again was fully entertained by it.  We have a Springer Spaniel also, so that made it even more enjoyable.  The pictures are fantastic!  The story was adorable and gave us a look at how hard life in the White House is for a well loved pet. :) Give it a look, I think you will enjoy.	2003-12-22
US	38782199	R18RVVNAMNGSFV	0060084405	111079086	Bread Alone: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	the therapy of making bread	I know several acquaintances that find comfort in baking and cooking when they are upset or stressed, especially when it comes to kneading bread dough and this is the underlying theme of this book.<br />Wyn, the main character of this book has been living the life of a kind of trophy wife, with no career or interest of her own except to play the beautiful hostess to the many business contacts of her husband.  She is completely taken by surprise when her husband decides that he wants a separation and then a divorce (he has a woman on the side unbeknownst to Wyn).  She is devastated and runs for comfort to her best friend CM and her mother.  She finds a job in a bakery that she finds therapeutic and an outlet of creativity and a sense of purpose.  The people she works with are memorable characters in themselves.<br />Of course, there are the men in her life, her deceased father, her husband, a bartender friend and a brother who is a brother only because her mother married his father.  <br />It was an interesting and enjoyable story of a woman coming to grasps with her situation in life.  I highly recommend the book!	2003-12-16
US	38782199	RQ086TQVKEUGP	B00005XU2P	631151736	Sabotage! The secret war against America	Books	5	8	14	N	N	infiltration of the Nazis!	According to the authors, the Germans knew that they weren't going to win World War I or II but set in motion long reaching plans to conquer the world by infiltrating countries all over the world with their men to place them in key government and business and media positions and to prepare for the world take over.  They planned to alienate the U.S. from the rest of the world and get the South American countries to rebel and attack the USA.  They planned to work with Mexico to give back to Mexico, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, etc. as part of their reward. They have different propoganda groups all around the country labeled from Christian groups, national liberty party, Social Republic Society of America, National Workers League, Patriotic Research Bureau, etc.   They had money stashed away before the end of the wars to do battle again and again.  We have been infiltrated by them in all our government and business spheres.  The cruelty that the Nazis dealt to the people they crushed was horrifying.  They trained the youth in special schools to be cruel, and dogmatic in their goal.  They have infiltrated our schools and are teaching our children.  They were here before the wars and are here now.  The experimenting on people started in this country and then to Germany and then they experimented on the poor Jews and others.  This a select group of Germans that banded together, not the whole country.  The decent Germans who tried to stop them were killed and when they protested they would hold mock trials and the killers got off scott free.  The real rulers weren't the ones that were obvious, but were the controllers.  The book that I read was an earlier version that tells the same but was titled \\"The Plot Against the Peace: A Warning to the Nation!\\" by Michael Sayers and Albert E Kahn written in 1945.  It is extremely relevant to today.  There are many obvious connections to the Nazis right in the top of our government! <br />When reading about the actions of the Nazi's and from some their reflections they had written about in their diaries, of the beatings and killings and stealing, etc. it made me sick.  These people do not have a conscience.  They have been programmed and not taught to think but to just obey orders. <br />The plan was to put people and countries against each other so that the people would be too busy to notice what is going on.  Wake up people!  They have changed the conservative party to one of their own gradually so that most people don't even realize it, also they have worked on the liberal.  Why do you suppose we have so many hate books?  To get the people divided.  If you love this country, you have to work together for its good, not against it.	2003-12-09
US	38782199	R3270KCWESMWEB	1884822282	120339214	Cleveland Amory's Compleat Cat: Cat Who Came for Christmas / Cat and the Curmudgeon / Best Cat Ever	Books	5	6	6	N	N	for all cat lovers!	I read this compilation of the authors three books a while back and when I came across it the other day I decided that I should write a review on it because of how wonderful I found the books!  The author is part of a group who helps find homes for homeless animals and one the group asks for his help in rescuing this cat that she has observed for a while that needs care but she can't catch on her own.  He helps her catch the cat, which involves a bit of a struggle and then has to keep the cat at his apartment for a few days until they can get it looked at by the vet and then adopted out to a new family.  As soon as he gets it to his apartment, the cat disappears in the apartment and they look high and low to find it-what a humorous event.  This is the story of an independent cat and the author and the strong bond that they develop.  Beautiful story!  As a fellow cat owner, I highly recommend this book.	2003-12-08
US	38782199	R1SO75GL2LV2ED	014025448X	813188609	At Home in Mitford	Books	5	6	6	N	N	what a wonderful comforting story!	This is such a wonderful story.  I never really thought how busy a clergy man's (or woman's) life is and how much they actually do in their chosen vocation.  Father Tim, the rector, in Mitford is the central character.  He is just turning sixty at the beginning of the story and has reached a time in his life that he has lost a little of the joy and fulfillment he has always felt before.  He is need of a vacation, which he has not taken in years, but which he always finds excuses to not take-he is getting burned out.  Enter a huge bad-mannered dog (who is only controlled by hearing scriptures from the bible spoken to him) who has decided to adopt Father Tim, a young untamed boy, a new attractive neighbor, a jewel theft, a sixty year old secret love story, missing food and much more and you have a story that is so wonderful and so human and so enjoyable.  I felt the urge to go to my bible and eagerly look up the many stories on Jesus because it made me feel so close to him and loved by him.  Don't make the mistake that it is a preachy type story from what I just said but rather a feel good story that makes you want to reach out.  The characters are all portrayed as actual everyday people we know ourselves with all their foibles and goodness combined.  If you want a book that will leave you with a good contented feeling then this book will fullfill your wishes.	2003-12-07
US	38782199	R38SZNNXETZQDU	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	5	30	37	N	N	must be a great poker player	According to some observers, Bush can tell a lie with the aplomb of a great poker player.  You would swear he was telling you the straight and narrow, until, after so many of his lies have come to light that the people just figure that if his says its this way then you figure it must be the other way.  It would be funny, but the lies have just about destroyed this country and makes you wonder if it is on purpose or if he and his administration are just that inept.  Corn does a wonderful job of gathering together into one book a good collection of those lies and displaying them to the public.  <br />Several other authors have also covered some of the same things but not quite in the same manner, like-Franken, Ivens, Conason, Moore and then there's the book by J.H. Hatfield, &quot;Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President&quot; (a book they tried to ban and even threatened the author).  It is an excellent biography of dubya and is not as biased as many of the other authors, but gives you a good idea of who he is and how he operates.   After reading this book, Corn will open your eyes and make you think twice before you believe anything Bush says from now on.	2003-12-04
US	38782199	R2SC6VDDQY6LMP	0609803875	380393154	A Gracious Plenty: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	warmly entertaining and thoughtful	The author does a wonderful job of developing her characters, especially her main one, Finch Nobles.  When Finch was a little girl she accidently spilled a pot of boiling water on herself and suffers massive scars.  The reaction of others to her disfigurement cause her to retreat to caretaking of the graveyard her father is in charge of and then she herself inherits the responsibility.  It is her security, because she has developed the ability to talk to the dead and has developed friendships among them that she doesn't have amongst the living.  She has learned to erect a barrier when dealing with the people living around her.  Because she can speak to both the living and the dead, she is sometimes used by the dead to try and communicate with the living and of course, she is considered rather strange to the living because of her disfigurement and her lifestyle.  <br />It is a book that gently reminds us that just because someone has a disfigurement or is a little different doesn't mean that they don't have feelings and such as everyone else and that true kindness and goodness should be practiced by everyone and for everyone regardless of any differences.	2003-12-04
US	38782199	RNRNCECBY3HRQ	0399139206	224486658	Walking Shadow	Books	4	8	9	N	N	entertaining and educational	Whenever I read a Spenser/Hawk book I am picturing Robert Urich, who was unbeatable as that character in the t.v.'s series of Spenser.  I miss him, but on to the story.  Spenser is asked by Susan, his girl, to help find out who is stalking the director of the Port City Theater's Company, of which Susan is a trustee.  He finds no stalker, but while watching the play, one of the cast is shot right in front of the audience and killed.  Another woman claims that she is being stalked and yet they find no one stalking her and then he receives a tape of her tied to a chair and being held hostage.  There is the Chinese mafia connection, as a large portion of Port City is Chinese and another of the trustees is Chinese with connections to them.  Spenser is threatened by the boss and told not to come back or he will be killed and so enters Hawk and Vinnie for back up protection.  The educational part is learning a little about the illegal immigration trafficking of the Chinese people.  My favorite characters, as always, were Spenser and Hawk.  I don't want to tell you too much more except that I did enjoy the book.	2003-12-02
US	38782199	R1B41F6QDG9WUJ	0345439511	725381152	My Russian (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	literary thriller	As one person described this as a literary thriller, I have to agree with that assessment.  The main character, Francesca Woodbridge, narrates the story.  She draws you in from the very first by telling us that she is just a few blocks from her home, unknown to her family, and is there under another identity.  Her family thinks she is in Greece, but she has come back to spy on her and her family's life without their knowledge.  She has created a whole new identity.  What tipped off this escapade was the mysterious shooting of her husband.<br />This is not the usual mystery, but one that involves a lot of remembrances of Francesca's prior life and the circumstances that led up to the story.  She has come to the realization that the life she has lived is not what she had pictured for herself and has nostalgically looked back at it to discover her dissatifaction with it and how the results of her actions and those close to her have led her to where she is now.  It is the literary, rather than the mystery part that has held my interest.  She has brought to life what many women, and probably men too, have felt after years of being married to the same person for years.  Not that everyone has these same feelings, but I think most can identify with some of them in some way.  This is what remains in your thoughts after you have finished the book, not so much the thriller part of the story and which makes this book stand out for me, because usually when I finish a book, I can say I either liked it or I didn't.  This book makes me stop and remember and wonder about it long after I have read it.	2003-12-01
US	38782199	RWX5GMFRM2EI1	006109398X	343008033	Treasure Box	Books	4	4	5	N	N	fascinating!	I have never read a book by this author before (at least, that I can recollect) and so didn't know what to expect.  I was pleasantly rewarded.  The book starts out with ten year old Quentin Fears fighting for the life of his sister who the doctors say is brain-dead as a result of an accident.  When he finally accepts the truth and allows the doctors and his parents to pull the plug so that others may be able to use some of her organs before it is too late for them to be of help to the recipients, he doesn't tell anyone of his conversation with his sister just prior to his decision. <br />The impact of losing his sister turns him into a recluse of sorts who excells intellectually but has little interaction with the opposite sex as he is growing up because no one could match the image or qualifications  of his dear lost sister.  He ends up a very rich man at a relatively young age and about the time he finally realizes what he has been missing in not having a regular kind of relationship with a woman and decides to go looking for a mate, he just happens to run into the woman of his dreams, Madeleine.  She is everything he has ever dreamed of in a woman, and surprise, she reminds him of deceased sister, Lizzy.  They marry.  <br />They have been married for quite a while, and yet he hasn't met her family.  When she finally agrees to take him to visit them, with warnings that they are a little different, he finds she wasn't kidding.  The chauffeur delivers them to a three story house that was built in the eighteen hundreds.  It is there that he begins to notice a change in Madeleine's personality.  The family is indeed strange, and then Madeleine confronts her grandmother, and demands, that since she is now married that she is entitled to the inheritance she was promised, the contents in the treasure box.  When Madeleine asks Quentin to open the box, he hesitates, because of her strange behavior.  This makes her go into a fit of rage and run out of the house.  When Quentin follows to console her, he finds she has disappeared.  There are no footprints in the snow of hers where they should be and when he returns to the house, he finds, instead of the well kept and beautiful house he just left shortly before, a house with the furniture covered and layers of dust and no sign that anyone else had been there but himself.   Madeleine has disappeared and he can't find a record of her existence anywhere.  He has the mystery of her disappearance, and in finding out what is in the treasure box and why it was so important to her, to solve.<br />I don't want to spoil the book for you by telling you too much, but rather urge you to read it yourself.  When I first started the book I thought it was just a regular type mystery but as I got into it, it veered off in a whole new direction, keeping my imagination purring until the end.	2003-11-29
US	38782199	RRVHNFWJDNT20	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	marvelous!	I bought the book a while ago, but hadn't gotten around to reading it because it is nigh onto 900 pages and wanted the time I thought it would take to read it.  Boy, was I wrong!  I read this book in two days.  It could've been longer and it still wouldn't have seemed too long, that was how easy and enjoyable it was to read.  I have all of the Harry Potter books and have enjoyed them all and yet I think this was one of my favorites.  I am an adult that thoroughly enjoyed this book just as much as the younger generation.  Another success for this author and I am looking forward to the next book.	2003-11-26
US	38782199	RUVB39IU2KYX9	0671002252	125754	The Man of the House	Books	4	2	3	N	N	engaging look into the lives of everyday dysfunctionalists	Stephen McCauley has put together a book full of dysfunctional people, yet it is not really the oddity but something that all of us see at one time or other.  I don't think there is a family, regardless of background or status, that does not have family members that can't be compared to some of the characters in his book, or at the very least know someone with similar characteristics.  It was an entertaining book, describing the lives and traits of several people and how they interact during the course of several months and yet at the end there is no end to the story except for maybe an awakening to the main character's perceptions of himself and his friends.  We have the main character, who is gay, who is living with a straight man, who has been going to school forever and has been in and out of many love affairs with women, a woman friend who has returned with her son who is 12 years old (whose father is the straight man), his father who has treated him with disdain for years, a sister with problems and her daughter who is sassy and rebellious, and a dog who has been mistreated previously (and has emotional problems) and since his friends can't keep them at the place they rented, he now has custody and a downstairs neighbor who has gone through a seperation and is emotionally scarred.  These all make for an entertaining story.	2003-11-23
US	38782199	R132G7DJJQRKE6	0425180638	109258524	The Last Precinct: Scarpetta (Book 11)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	winding down?	If you haven't read any of Cornwell's books before, start with one of her earlier ones first because they (the Kay Scarpettas) run in a sequential manner.  I have read many of her books and have enjoyed all of them, some a little more than others. Read the &quot;Black Notice&quot; before you read this one.  The last two books have been getting a little weirder and you need to stretch your imagination a little bit.  At first you think the condition of the murder suspect is a little absurb and unbelievable and yet... as you continue reading, the author draws you into the story.  Because of the ending of the story one wonders if the author has run out of ideas for the Scarpetta stories and is moving on to something new.  <br />Scarpetta is a different person than the one we are used to seeing...a more subdued, defeatist and feeling sorry for herself person.  She is being accused of crimes and must find the evidence to defend herself and no one, even her friends, seem to be able to help.  She has lost the man she loves to a horrific murder and after so many years of catching killers, to be accused as one herself seems absurb.  I enjoyed the book even though it was not one of my favorites and look forward to reading her next book &quot;Blow Fly&quot;.	2003-11-23
US	38782199	R3XCXWA0FJYKD	0930852400	695411256	The War on Freedom: How and Why America was Attacked, September 11, 2001	Books	5	23	29	N	N	now I know why they didn't want an investigation	This book is chocked full of verifiable information.  Information that I wish I could refute, but alas, I am afraid it is full of truths.  The author puts the facts that he has uncovered in front of us and lets us draw our own conclusions-conclusions that are hard to swallow but are pretty obvious.  Members of our own government were involved in 9/11.  He has so many sources that we can use to check these facts out ourselves.<br />He gives us background on Afghanistan, how it has been abused and manipulated by our country and others and why.  It made me want to cry when I read it.  Background on the Saudis and more...<br />The most damning of all, was, when, for some reason, standard operating procedures for our Air Force is to immediately check out any flight deviations of commercial planes  and others, but they were evidently told to stand down.  (We know they do this because this is what happened when a famous golfer's plane went off course and they had planes up in the air in minutes and guided it until it ran out of fuel and crashed in the Dakotas and also, when just the other day, a small plane came close to Washington, D.C. and they had the planes up immediately and it was escorted to an airport)  Why would they, when there were several warnings, have them stand down, and then when they did send in jets, why from Florida and not the air base ten miles from them?  And why did pentagon officials cancel their flights for that day?  Read the book to get a comprehensive look at what happened because this is about as good a book as you will find.<br />It is a sad day in this country when we find that we cannot trust our government.	2003-11-18
US	38782199	R1478SOT4B9A9H	1590080157	822564196	Forcing God's Hand: Why Millions Pray for a Quick Rapture ... and Destruction of Planet Earth	Books	5	40	47	N	N	eye-popping revelations of Israel and Zionist Christians!	What an amazing book!  It opens a whole new look at why the country is in such a turmoil.  Grace Halsell, who used to work at the White House during Johnson's years as president has presented us with a horrifying and believable theory that certain evangelical Zionist Christians and certain Israel citizens have been conspiring to hurry up the approaching Armegeddon so that they can receive what they call Rapture without going through the tribulations.  She says this is why we have given Israel so much money and support over the years.  In order for this to happen, they have to destroy Islams Holy shrines and build a third temple on the mount and use animals as sacrificialments like they did in early bible times.  Millions and billions will die.  Of course, since they are disobeying Gods Ten Commandments, they will not receive this rapture they are looking forward to, because God will choose when and how Armegeddon will happen.  Will there be misery and death and loss if they continue on this course?  Yes, many will suffer including them.<br />Much of where the evangelists place their belief is from the Scofield Bible, written by a man of dubious character.  He fled from Kansas (abandoning his wife and children) amid accusations of embezzling political contributions made to Senator John Ingalls, a former partner.  When he was in jail for forgery he had a religious conversion and was under the influence of James Brookes, the Darbyite Dispensationalist.  He ended up writing a Bible that went along with the regular Bible using his own interpretations of what he thought the bible meant and this is what many of our evangelists use now. <br />Some of the people she lists that believe in this theory is Jerry Falwell (big time), Pat Robertson, Hal Lindsay,  Tim Lehay, Ronald Reagan, Bush, Dan Quayle and wife, Tom Delay, TRent Lott, and many more.  Read the book to understand what is at stake-our world as we know it.	2003-11-12
US	38782199	R1RBL5RD03AXWK	0525942068	159875656	The Inner Sanctum	Books	5	4	6	N	N	excellent business thriller!	From what I see of the reviews shown, that people either liked the book or didn't.  Well, I really liked it.  I have been reading a lot of political books lately, and this is indeed a book based on reality in many ways.  A reality that many of us don't want to believe because we all hope that integrity and honesty is the basis that our businesses and the people in our government hold to, but, alas, money and the power that it can produce is far too hard for many to resist.<br />It is a political story about how an investment group, a crooked senator, military people and others manipulate to get defense contracts so that certain people can make a lot of money.  We have seen a lot of this lately ourselves.  I am sure there are a few details that someone who is more familiar with the procedures involved in acquiring defense contracts could disagree with, but as a novice myself, and as this is just a book of fiction, I found it to be fascinating.<br />David Mitchell, a young man who came up from a poor background, has been working at a job that he hopes will fulfill his dreams of becoming rich, even if he has to do a few things that aren't exactly kosher in the legal department.  As he isn't a crook by nature, he is having doubts about his job.  He has been manipulated by the people he is working for into using poor judgement in his actions and now it may be too late to get out.<br />Jessie Hayes' boss, in the IRS, dies suddenly of a mysterious heart attack, and she receives a delayed memo from him about a case he was working on-very secretive.  She finds the file where he said he had hidden it and is almost killed in the process.  <br />There is murder, mystery and thrills to the end of the book.  I wasn't disappointed.	2003-11-04
US	38782199	R3STI9C6EI74WN	0671534025	387472216	Murder at San Simeon	Books	3	7	8	N	N	could have been great	The book could have been great if the writers had put it together in a smoother manner and had done a little more work on their characters and their backgrounds.  Now, it has peaked my interest enough that I find myself looking up stories on the people described in the book.  It was very educational in describing the San Simeon estate and made me hope that some day I will get to see it myself.  The authors description of the wealth and power that Hearst had established and how corrupt and manipulative the very wealthy could be was fascinating.  One of the authors is Hearst's granddaughter so that is an added interest.<br />The story is of a young woman who has come to California to attend the funeral of her mother, a woman she has never felt close to during her lifetime.  As a last act of respect, Catha Kinsolving Burke, goes to San Simeon as those were her mother's deathbed words.  On the bus tour she runs into a couple who mentions a murder involving an Abigail Kinsolving that happened in connection to the San Simeon Hearst estate in the 1920s.  She gets them to tell her part of the story, and finds out that Abigail Kingsolving was her grandmother.  She ends up following various clues to see if she can figure out what actually happened seventy years ago and how the events influenced her mother's and her life.  The end of the book was frustrating.  While it did peak my interest it was only enough to give it three stars.	2003-11-03
US	38782199	R77VHVJGY2UA	0451187431	228114444	Deadly Harvest	Books	4	0	1	N	N	wow!	I haven't read a lot of medical thrillers that I enjoyed this much.  There is a lot that goes on in this book that keeps you interested to the end.  It starts out with the prologue where it tells of a man positioned with a rifle up on a hill trying to get a doctor in his scope's sight so that he can kill him because he feels they are responsible for his sister's death.  The surveilance on the Women's Reproductive Clinic is about to bring fruition when the sniper himself is attacked from behind and killed.  Ten years later his body is found in a grave that has been washed away to reveal his skeleton.<br />Lori is young and new to the coroners job and because of her newness it is suggested that they get Joanna Blalock, a pathologist, in to help in the investigation.  <br />Joanna has troubles of her own, her sister, Kate, along with others has been flown to her hospital the victim of a virulent virus that is life threatening.  It looks like she may need a liver transplant.<br />We have the murder of a couple of millionaires who both had liver transplants and who both, when examined, had developed cysts in the livers they received.  We have the murders of murderers and all sorts of mysteries to keep us interested- like where did the livers come from that were bad and why did they develop the cysts and is there something sinister about the organ donar company?  Questions and mystery until the end of the book.  I enjoyed the book and would read more books written by this author.	2003-11-02
US	38782199	R29E2MBMJNRSYH	0515119644	569723924	The Judge (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	great courtroom drama!	Judge Armando Acosta is not Paul Mandriani's favorite person and yet he ends up defending him in a murder case.  Judge Acosta has been involved in a case involving a cover-up by the police of a murder.  During the investigation, he, himself, gets arrested for solicitating an under-cover prostitute.  The under-cover woman is later found murdered and Judge Acosta is accused of her murder.  Assistant DA Lenore Goya, who Paul is interested in, has an interest in both cases, but is fired by DA Kline and ends up taking the judges case until her fingerprint is found at the home of the murdered victim, so she has to quit because of a conflict of interest.  Paul gets the case by default and even though he isn't fond of his defendent, finds himself involved in a case full of intrigue and many questions as he works to defend his client.  <br />I found the book quite interesting and I got a good look at how trials are conducted.  If you are looking for a good legal thriller, then you won't be disappointed in this book.  I highly reccomend it.	2003-10-31
US	38782199	R1OPO26BJOJNPA	080505622X	284111312	The Stargazey	Books	4	1	2	N	N	delightful mystery	I always enjoy the Richard Jury mysteries because the cast of characters are such an enjoyable lot.  She does such a wonderful job of describing these characters and making them into such unique and yet real lifelike characters.  The mystery keeps you interested all the way to the end trying to sort out the clues.<br />  Richard Jury takes the bus and observes a passenger, a blond woman in a fur coat, get on the bus and then get off and then later get on again, and it spikes his curiosity.  When she gets off the second time, his curiosity aroused, he gets off too and follows her to the gates of the Fulham Palace and then he quits.  The next day he finds out that a blond woman wearing a sable coat is found murdered in the herb garden of the Fulham Palace and fears it is the woman he followed.  When he sees the woman in the morgue, he discovers that although it looks like the same woman it isn't, so the mystery grows.  <br />He gets his friend, Melrose Plant, to help him out in his investigation.  There is suspicious actions of an art gallery and it owners, assassinations, and the murder of an acquaintance that Melrose has made during the course of his investigation.  The man, Mr. Pitt, a retired art critic, has been murdered in an flagrant manner right in public view and no one sees it happen.  Melrose is angry and sad because he had grown to really like the man.  <br />I really enjoyed the book, but I gave it only four stars because although we discover the murderer the ending does not have the closure that I would like.  I have found that Grimes leaves us wanting to know more, maybe it will lead to another book.  I hope so.	2003-10-28
US	38782199	R8TLU49KEHZ3X	0451410556	149763335	The Blue Last	Books	4	5	6	N	N	entices you to read her next book	I think the ending in this book is where most of the lower reviews come in to play.  We have one mystery answered but there are too many other unanswered questions that just beg us to go get her next book to find out the answers. Overall, I really liked the book, and I am already searching to see if she has written a follow up.  If she has then it was a great book, if not then it left you hanging and frustrated.<br />Jury is asked by a friend who is also a police officer, but who doesn't have long to live, if he would help investigate a mystery that happened years ago during World War II.  Two woman were in a pub and each have a baby with them.  One of the women go outside to take a walk with the other mother's baby (so she says) and while she is gone, the pub gets bombed and the people inside are killed, including the woman's baby and the mother of the baby she is taking a stroll with.   His friend knows the family, which is extremely wealthy, and he thinks that the woman is lying about which baby died so that her baby will be raised as Maisie Tyndale, who will inherit a large amount of the Tyndale fortune some day.  He asks Jury to investigate and, of course, because they are friends, Jury agrees.  A Mr. Croft, who is a close friend of the Tyndales, is killed shortly after that and all of his manuscripts, computer, and notes on a book he was writing is stolen.  Other characters are, Gemma (a ward of Oliver Tyndale and one of his favorites) and Benny (a boy living off the streets with a dog) and of course you have the other characters that are usually involved in her Richard Jury mysteries.  <br />The book kept my interest all the way to the end, but it didn't answer all my questions.  If there is not a sequel, then there really needs to be one.  I am going to check and see as soon as I finish this review.  :)	2003-10-25
US	38782199	RG07XNY352AMF	0452283914	569076996	The Best Democracy Money Can Buy	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Reveals the truths they try to hide from us!	This could be one of the most important books that you will ever read.  Greg Palast has gone out and done a superb job of investigating and getting to the nitty gritty to reveal some amazing and disgusting actions that have been perpetrated on our people and other nations.  It will absolutely boggle your mind and will make you sad and angry at the way some people abuse their power.  <br />He gives us the facts on the 2000 election and how crooked it was.  He takes our media to task for not reporting the true facts of that atrocity to the people.  Other countries knew more about what was happening in our country than we did.  The news here is controlled and we get pretty much what the corporations and money people want us to hear so we have to dig for the facts ourselves.  <br />He touches on global actions that our country and others have been involved in, that the average citizen never hears about, that have hurt so many innocent people throughout the world.  The facts are alarming and shameful.  <br />He even touches on Pat Robertson.  At one time I used to watch him, but I never donated to his show because I always felt that by giving directly to the people who were in need around you (whether it be taking over food to someone who you know needs it, or mowing the lawn for an elderly or incapacitated person who is unable to do it, driving someone to the store or picking up groceries, etc. for someone who can't get out, and so on) then you know the ones who are in need are the ones receiving your help.  I found out that Mr. Robertson is worth 200 million to a billion dollars, that is astronomical for a person who ministers and who is generally thought of as giving most of what he has to others because of his faith that the Lord will provide.  I will NEVER donate to the 700 Club even though I believe in God with all my heart.  <br />He tells how Enron cheated, lied and swindled its way into an energy monopoly.  The energy crisis is going to come to a head soon.  TheRepublicans had a meeting this last week about energy and did not let the Democrats into the meeting or give them any information on it.  Be prepared people to get ripped off in some way. <br />He gets on Clinton's case as well as the Bushes, but more on the Bush administration.   <br />Read this book to get the feel of the way this administration and the corporate world is heading this country and others in the near future.  We need to clean house in our congress.  We need to get the patriot act repealed and we need to look at how our congressmen have voted (both parties), and if they haven't voted for what is best for the people replace them with someone who will.  I really urge you all to read this book because you won't hear a lot of what it contains on our news and what he covers in here are things the people need to know.	2003-10-25
US	38782199	R1CTL2WG5PRUF8	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Thank you librarians!	Michael Moore's book, \\"Stupid White Men\\", sat for months after 9/11 because some people thought it would be unpatriotic to publish them, and then certain people wanted to ban the book, but a librarian heard about it and got on line and informed all the librairans nationally about the proposed ban on his book.  Bottom line, through their protestations the book was released and the rest is history.<br />I love my country and what it has always represented.  Because of how our country has been established with its constitutional laws (until the Patriot Act) this country has been a country I felt that we could be proud of and I hope that will continue to do so.  Lately, its laws have been stretched so far away from the intention of the founders of our country that it is shocking and horrifying to many of us.  Michael Moore has the courage to ask the many questions that the citizens of this country have been afraid to ask but want answers to.  <br />Someone mentioned that he was sounding like a conspiracy theorist and should be discredited because of that.  Well, this country is full of conspiracies, whether it be the politicians planning their campaigns, companies planning their financial strategies, men and women planning how to woo their opposites, going to war in Iraq, those who planned and executed 9/11 were conspirators, so I wouldn't knock him for wanting to know why all this has happened.  He says we have been lied to time after time and since we, the people, are supplying the men and women to fight these wars and are using our tax dollars and the money that was put aside for our social security, etc. that we should have the right to know the truth.  Heck, since we know some of those people that were listed as the hi-jackers have turned up alive and have alibis, we don't even know for sure if they lied to us about Osama bin Laden.  Was it all for oil?  <br />I had one point that made me a little squeamish, his chapter where he pretends he is God.  He made some good points in it but I thought he could have done it differently without the God bit.  I know it was because Bush has made remarks about his being chosen by God to do this, but of course, as any Christian knows, God does not advocate, killing, lying, coveting, etc. which is against the Ten Commandments, so he does not live God's laws.  Hitler would be more like it.<br />The book is quite good and we needed someone who could reach the people as he has done.  It takes a lot of courage to go up against the people that have so much power, but we gave a lot of them that power, maybe we can take some of it away in the next election.  If they don't vote to repeal the Patriot Act, don't vote for them, pure and simple (those are the easy ones).  Look to see how they have voted on issues, if they haven't voted for the good of the people or country, get rid of them and get someone else in.  Clean house!<br />If you love this country and want to keep it the way it was meant to be, read this book and others like \\"Bushwacked\\" (you see what kind of policies Bush has established), \\"The Great Unraveling\\" by Paul Krugman (tells us how Bush's financial policies are trying to destroy the social security, medicare and medicaid programs and more),  Franken's \\"Lies and the Lying Liars:..\\", and \\"Big Lies\\" by Conason.  These books are giving the people true facts and the facts are affecting all of us, whether you are a conservative or a liberal or moderate unless you are a millionaire and then it will be unless you are a billionaire.  This is indeed a precarious time for our country, don't be lulled into the trap of thinking this is a liberal versus conservative cause, because it is all of our concerns.	2003-10-21
US	38782199	R1GFZ7MXNQATHK	0515130044	418239112	The Attorney (A Paul Madriani Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	wonderful legal thriller	I hadn't read many of his books and was really pleased when I read this one.  Mandriani is an attorney and one of his clients, who he had defended before with good results, comes to him again.  Jonah Hale, who has since won one of the biggest lotteries, wants Mandriani to find his grand-daughter who has been kidnapped by his daughter, a drug user and released felon.  The woman who he feels helped his daughter with the kidnapping ends up murdered and he is accused of the murder.  Mandriani has his hands full trying to keep up with all the different angles and suspects.  The ending may surprise you.  I enjoyed the book and I think you will too.  I am looking forward to reading another of his books.	2003-10-20
US	38782199	R3QZV54C6I4S4Z	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	1	34	82	N	N	this book is against christianity	I am a christian.  I believe in Jesus and his teachings.  This book has nothing to do with christianity or why our country came about.  A good majority of the people who first came to America came to get away from being persecuted because of their religious beliefs, they had different views from the people where they came from and wanted to be able to live in peace with those beliefs.  If any of you read the bible you will know that becoming a christian is much like an alcoholic who decides to quit drinking.  They must reach that conclusion themselves.  You cannot force anyone to quit drinking or believe in God and Jesus.  In the Bible, it states that God is there for anyone and that all they have to do is knock on his door and they will be answered and accepted lovingly.  He does not want someone who does not come willingly, but loves us all.  I do not know if I am liberal or conservative, like most people I have leanings towards both ideas.  One thing I do know, is that to class one group as being anti-christian is totally wrong, because I know both conservatives and liberals who are both strong christians and some who are atheists in about equal proportions, so his theory doesn't wash and if you all are honest with yourselves you will know that too.	2003-10-18
US	38782199	RVDU9RPYAA9MJ	0373834357	806410465	Family Men: Midnight Sons, Volume 2	Books	4	15	15	N	N	delightful	Every now and then I feel the need to read a romance that is easy and fun to read.  Macomber has written two books in one that is a double treat.  They both are centered in Alaska so that one gets the additional gift of learning a little about that state.  The first is about Bethany Ross who is the new teacher and Mitch Harris who is the law among other things in the town of Hard Luck, Alaska.  Mitch is drawn to Bethany but fights his attraction because of the death of his first wife and he figures it won't be long before her bags are packed and she is heading for greener pastures.  Bethany has come to teach, but her main objective is to find and learn what she can about a man called Ben.  She isn't planning on leaving for a while, and of course she is drawn to Mitch but can't figure him out.  She feels he is as attracted to her as she is to him but he acts the opposite-and then there is his daughter who tries to be matchmaker.  The second story is about Matt and Karen who are now divorced.  Karen grew up with a father who couldn't keep a job and the financial insecurity that resulted.  Matt had begun to do the same thing and she decided she couldn't deal with it so she left him and divorced him.  Matt buys and old lodge that needed fixing up and put everything into it, but he still loves Karen and she still loves him.  His sister, who Karen has remained friends with, is getting married and wants Karen to be in her wedding.  After getting Matt's okay that it won't bother him if Karen is in the wedding, her plans evolve.  You guessed it, Matt and Karen have a one nighter and then Karen leaves.  Karen finds out she is pregnant and because the pregnancy is making her ill she agrees to stay at Matt's lodge until after the baby is born, in seperate bedrooms, of course.  The rest you will have to find out for yourself.  If you want a nice relaxing evening reading a fun but not to strenuous book, this is right up your alley.  I enjoyed the book.	2003-10-17
US	38782199	RMN54R5LGV4WK	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	was slow in getting my interest	The book could have been cut in half and been more interesting.  It was slow in getting to the story.  There were so many characters to keep track of that it took a while to sort them out.  Jack Ryan is the president who sounds like he really doesn't like his job, which is contrary to what I have seen in the election battles which we have seen over the years.  We have Russia which has discovered a huge oil field in Siberia and gold, another big find. We have China who wants it, the United States who is trying to help Russia (which is just the opposite of what we have seen in years, the U.S. trying to build and strengthen Russia, the very country we have been opposed to all these years?).  The greed I can see, in fact, right now, we are in a war fighting for oil, so it just doesn't ring true.  The book was so-so and I can't really say I would recommend it.  This doesn't mean that I wouldn't read another of his books because I would, because he has written some great ones.	2003-10-15
US	38782199	R1G0PXUOHT7UIQ	158322601X	828517158	The Oh Really? Factor: Unspinning Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly	Books	5	27	31	N	N	It's because of the O'Reilly's I check out the facts	Peter Hart has done the people a great service.  He has exposed the spin in O'Reilly.  I have noticed that conservatives on the various talk shows interrupt and won't let their guests or callers talk, they interrupt them, are rude, distract the listeners, etc.  O'Reilly did it on C-span when a caller phoned and was talking instead of letting the caller make his point and then rebutting it, he stopped the caller from finishing his point and brushed him off.  I have seen this happen with Rush Limbaugh, O'Reilly, Tucker, Russiff and others and usually the person they are rude to has much better manners, lets them make their point and then will get lamblasted when he or she tries to make her point.  They don't have the winning argument so they try to stop their opponent from voicing his.  Anyway, Hart, shows O'Reilly for the conservatively biased person that he is over and over.  I have listened to O'Reilly and his counterparts for so long (after 8+ years of Clinton bashing) and found the facts just weren't adding up, so I went and did a little research myself.  I found the Clintons were pretty good people and when I looked at the Bush family background found a horror story.  So what I hear from O'Reilly I take with a grain of salt and listen to what his spin is and then discern what he really means.  Hart has done a great service in showing up O'Reilly's spin for what it is.  Hopefully, more people will not be as gullible to what they hear on the news as they have been.  Don't believe everything you hear, it just may be a spin.	2003-10-11
US	38782199	RN2TWXYOWQJJ6	0451409973	574254744	Julie And Romeo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	what a treat!	After reading several depressing political books I needed a break from them and did I get a pleasant surprise!  Julie Roseman can remember from the time she was a little girl that the Cacciamanis family were rotten to the core, she didn't know why but that is how it has been.  The Rosemans and the Cacciamanis families, both owners of rival flower shops, have been enemies for years and have plotted against each other, doing many underhanded deeds to each other.  <br />Julie Roseman is sixty years old, her husband has left her for a younger woman and Romeo Cacciamanis is around her age also, and his wife, who he had loved for years, died of cancer, leaving him a widower.  They both own a florist shop and are attending a class to see if they can improve them as both of their businesses are not doing so well.  They meet at the class and find they are extremely attracted to each other, practically love at first sight.  The problem is their families hate each other and they find their children scheming against them, and to top it off, years before, a son and a daughter of theirs had fallen in love and they had vehemently opposed the relationship.<br />They have a lot of problems, but the story is so charming and entertaining that you just can't put the book down until you have finished.  When you have finished the book you have that satisfied glow that all is well in the world.  It is not a deep book, but one that is an easy read and not your normal romance.  I highly recommend the book.	2003-10-09
US	38782199	R2NPW4RQHMBQCA	0375507523	644345297	Bushwhacked: Life in George W. Bush's America	Books	5	51	55	N	N	I just don't get it	I don't get it.  One lady I talked to said she liked Bush because he was a Christian, but as I looked to see what he has done that was Christian (I am a Christian who believes in Jesus)I just couldn't find a thing that he has done that is something that Jesus would have done.  Saying grace, while it is good, is not being a Christian if what you do isn't.  <br />This was an extremely depressing, but necessary, book to read.  We have indeed been bushwacked.  Molly and Lou show us how the policies that Bush and his buddies have pushed through have helped the rich but have hurt the 'Doug Jones' of America.<br />With Harken, Bush did what Enron did, but as he did it first, and has gotten away with it, he was a good teacher for his friends at Enron.  Look at how many innocent hard working people were hurt in that fiasco.  He took away the cap on the price of energy that Clinton had established when California had its energy crisis so the Californians wouldn't be gouged by unfair prices, and helped the energy companies rip off Californians.<br />When he took office in Texas, it too, had a surplus, but when he left office in Texas, it had one of the biggest deficits ever.  As is the case throughout his life, he makes a mess and then someone else has to come along and clean up after him.  <br />He worked for the big companies so that they wouldn't have to put money out for air safety for our environment etc.  These people, are against abortion, but they don't care about the lives of our future generations, or our current ones either (I would think a life should be as important to them after it is born as it is before) , just to save them a few bucks.<br />They worked hard against any bills that would help the health of the working class people, Clinton  worked hard for them and then Bush and his people come along and shoot'em down.  There are businesses where workers are docked for using the bathroom, they are only allowed an extra five minutes during the lunch hour.<br />His educational plan is a dismal failure, you would think with a wife who was a teacher, that he would have come up with a better approach.<br />The control over our judicial system is downright scary.  They will show us again and again how it is used against the average American citizen.<br />His lack of environmental protection is abominable.  I have never seen an administration so gung-ho on destoying its resources as quickly as it can so that a few companies can make a little money.  What I don't understand here, is don't these people plan on having children and grand-children, etc.  Is this the legacy they want to leave them?  Because many of their actions are causing permanent damage to our country that cannot be undone.  The damage is not going to be partisan, it is going to affect every single one of us.<br />The bottom line is, every action he has taken has been to increase the wealth of the rich and hurt the working class people.  He has shown no compassion for the majority of the people at any time.  He may tell the people he is helping them, but what he does is just the opposite.  An example: he says he is concerned about the young men and women that are fighting for our country, while he is lowering their wages and the ones that have been injured and are flown back to the U.S. are being charged for the meals they eat in the hospital-they put their lives on the line for our country and we won't even feed them?<br />This has become a country controlled more and more by the corporations and the super rich and if we want to save it, we are going to have to put a lot of the people that are in office out and get some in that care about the people.  For a country to be healthy and prosperous, it has to have a more even balance or it will fail.  So, go find out how your congressmen have voted on issues, and if they haven't been for the good of the people, get out and vote someone else in.  Someone who does care about you, someone who is fair minded and compassionate, and get out and let's get the patriot act repealed!	2003-10-06
US	38782199	R3R1C5N3CHPG3W	0743206061	789567455	The Second Time Around (Clark, Mary Higgins)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	okay, but...	I am a fan of MHC and have enjoyed reading all of her books, including this one, but I have to admit that it was not one of her best.  It was as easy read, but I hadn't gone far into the book and had it already figured out (it may be that I have been reading too many political books lately, trying to figure out what is going on in this country, that I am extra suspicious of everything) early on in the book.  Carly's character could have been developed a little more and also that of her doctor boyfriend.  Ned's character, a mentally deranged character, was very believable.  Carly is an economist turned investigative reporter and is investigating the disappearance of Nicholas Spencer and the money that has been invested in his company, a company trying to develop a cure for cancer.  Her step-sister, whom she doesn't really like, is married to him.  The house that her step-sister is staying, was set on fire by an angry investor and destroyed.  Anne, the step-sister, was in the house at the time and suffered minor injuries.  So there is yet another mystery to find out who set the fire and then yet another one, when the police search for the person who has shot several people (actually, we know who did it, but the police don't).  The book was okay but could have been sensational with a little more work.  As it is, it is just a pleasant read without the after-glow feeling that I usually get when I read one of her books.	2003-10-04
US	38782199	R16QATB96GBE5I	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	15	19	N	N	for those who believe in the constitution of the U.S.A.	I, for one, believe in and will fight for the constitution of this great country.  I am not one who votes a straight ticket, I vote for whom I believe will do the best for our people and country because we have good people from each group.  This is not a time to blindly follow any one person or group on just their say so because our country is in a very precarious situation and a single bad judgement could cause unreparable, or at the least, extremely costly damage control.  <br />Paul Krugman feels, as many people do, that our current administration is heading this country in a whole new direction away from our constitutional values.  (you, as a people, can easily see this in their installing the patriot act and in their use of the supreme court to deny the voters their right to have their votes counted, and in denying thousands of voters in Florida the right to vote because their name resembled that of a felon-out of close to 60,000 people only around 3,000 qualified, the majority of the others were those they thought might vote for Gore, and also when Tom Delay and Lott sent their people down to Florida in planes belonging to Halliburton and Enron to physically stop the election people from recounting the ballots- they shoved the election judges around (this should have been a prison sentence for those people).  Those are the things that all of us can see and recognize.  Krugman shows us how the Bush administrations actions will result in the Social Security and Medicare program and others, will soon be null and void.  He shows us how this plan has been in the makings for some time now.  The people had to be lulled into a false sense of security by years of financial security and lack of wars and then had to be hit with something like 9/11 so that the leaders could get the cooperation of the people to take up arms and blindly follow in the belief that their leaders were looking out for them.  The leaders would keep up the fear factor and attack anyone who questioned them as being unpatriotic, (which is actually unpatriotic on their part).  This all happened to us.  Also, if something goes wrong, blame it on someone else.  Which they tried to do to Clinton, even though, Clinton warned them repeatedly that the terrorists would be the biggest threat to our country.  When the World Trade building was bombed just days after he took office, you didn't see him whining that it was all former President Bush's fault-he did his job.  He investigated and went from there.  You have to wonder why the current administration, didn't want the investigation into 9/11 as that is the logical conclusion when something like that happens, when something breaks, you find out why so that you can prevent it from happening again.  Krugman goes into great detail with logical and true facts proving his assumptions.  He goes back into history and shows how certain individuals involved years ago in the same kind of takeover plot are again involved in this administration-like Cheney, Wolfowitz, Rumsfeld, etc.  He explains how the fundamentalist christian group is a strong influence in this process-(these are not what I call true christians because Jesus would never take from the poor to give to the rich, he would never condone killing innocent people (ever wonder how many thousands of innocent Iraqi citizens have died due to Bush's orders?), the ten commandments says 'thou shalt not lie' but they did to get us into war, Jesus condemned the hipocrats who prayed to God in front of people for appearances sake and yet whose true God was greed).  Both Condoleeza Rice and Powell have been reported as saying that Iraq held no threat before 9/11 but when Bush wanted to go to war they began lying to the public.  They did not just lie to the liberals or Democrats, they lied to every single one of us and their lies are affecting every single one of us.  This is not a party issue, this is an issue of whether or not you believe in our country and the constitution or whether you want a fascist government.<br />Krugman lays out the cold hard facts.  He didn't cause the problems of our country, the Bush administration did.  These people have been in business for years, have handled money for years, huge amounts, so how could they have taken this country down into such a big deficit if it wasn't on purpose.  If you went to the bank for a loan, do you think they would give you a blank check and not want to know what the money you are borrowing is going to be used for?  The congressman who are willing and pushing to give Bush his 87 billion are not looking out for its people and they should be replaced with men and women who will look out for the taxpayers.<br />Read the book with an open mind, look at the facts that he has given you and realize that he doesn't have a reason to be partisan because he doesn't depend on campaign funds, etc. from anyone, and that his interest is to help inform the people how and why this country is going downhill so that we can correct its downtrend.  He loves this country.  This is not a party fight it is a fight for our country and our constitution.	2003-10-03
US	38782199	RQ0AACFY2D716	0671898744	169245668	Invasion of Privacy (John Francis Cuddy Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a lot of twists and turns	I hadn't read any of his books before and was pleasantly surprised how much I enjoyed his book.  His characters are believable and John Cuddy, a private investigator, is a likable and more realistic character than you will find in many mystery books.  A woman, who has fallen in love, has come to Cuddy to get his help to find out more about her lover, because he has been very reticent about disclosing any information about his past.  One of her friends distrusts him and has advised her to check up on him.  She doesn't want her boyfriend to find out that she is having him investigated. So Cuddy begins his search.  In his investigation, he finds out that the man he is investigating is in the witness protection program.  His client and her lover disappear and he has another mystery on his hands.  The book has several twists and turns, just when you think you have it figured out, something else pops up.  I enjoyed the book and will be reading more of his books to see if they are as good as this one.	2003-09-28
US	38782199	R25MAL8WDTQBXM	0446602450	454060985	Spencerville	Books	4	13	13	N	N	keeps you on your toes	I had never read any of his books before and was anxious to see what his writing is like as I had seen the movie, &quot;The Generals Daughter&quot; made from one of his books and had enjoyed it.  He is a tremendous writer.  He gets his characters right and when you are reading the book, you are right there riding right along with them.  You can feel the anger, hurt, joy, etc. that the characters are experiencing.  An intelligence officer, Keith, is returning to his home town now that they don't need him anymore and have retired him.  He is returning to the farm he grew up on and to the memories of his true love Annie.  Annie is married to the sheriff of the town now and they have two grown up kids no longer at home.  Her life is not enjoyable.  Her husband is a womaniser and sociopathic.  He is jealous and has her watched constantly because of his jealousy, keeping her in a vacuum.  As long as he is in office, she feels fairly safe because she knows he doesn't dare cause any negative publicity of his actions.  She is still in love with Keith, and doesn't know if he is alive or not until he shows up.  Her husband finds out that Keith has returned and develops a jealous and manic rage against Keith because of Annie and Keith's relationship years ago.  It is a book that you keep reading straight through because you want to know what happens.  Excellent writer and book.	2003-09-28
US	38782199	R21M61CO7DLP81	042517400X	429018375	Night Moves (Tom Clancy's Net Force, Book 3)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	not his best	I've read some of his other books that have been better.  The story was a little disjointed.  He had some characters like Mikhaly Ruzhyo, and a few others that had great potential, but he got too many things going at the same time and too little time for each of them to develop properly.  I did like the way he portrayed Lord Coswell, the English billionaire.  He figured he was a law unto himself and seems to have gotten away with murder (kinda like what's happening here in the United States).  I enjoyed the book but it wasn't his best.	2003-09-25
US	38782199	R1AHO5K6OZVENF	0446607711	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	4	1	3	N	N	thought provoking	I have read several of his books and have not been disappointed in any of them yet and this is no exception.  A few years ago I may have thought it was a little far fetched, but I have been reading too many political books lately (trying to figure out what is going on in this country) and find that it is very believable.  There are a lot of twists and turns and thrills and suspense, and romance (some have said they could leave it out, but I kinda liked it) to keep you interested.  <br />Rufus Harms has been in military prison for 25 years for killing a little girl.  He knows he did it but he didn't know why until he receives a letter and then it comes back to him.  He gets an appeal sent to the supreme court, but important people find out and anyone who has any knowledge about the case is murdered.  Rufus knows he is in trouble and his days are numbered if stays in prison.  Buy the book and find out what happens.  I don't think you will be disappointed.	2003-09-24
US	38782199	R14QJ50RT42OKT	0440217482	439840154	The Secret of the Villa Mimosa	Books	4	2	2	N	N	kept me entertained	I enjoyed the book.  I don't remember reading any of her books before, so was pleased that it kept me entertained till the end.  I would probably give it a three and a half star rating as the story line was a little too coincidental and Cinderella like, but I enjoyed it.  Dr. Phil Forster sees on t.v. that an unidentified woman has been found in a ravine.  At first they think the woman is dead but she is still barely alive and she is rushed to the hospital.  Phyl is drawn to her and soon is treating the young woman who, when she finally comes to, has amnesia.  Franco Mahoney, a likeable homicide cop is assigned to the case and he is trying to identify the woman, but is not having much luck.  It looks like a homicide attempt.  Through the course of the story Bea French (made up name for victim) ends up going to France while working for a rich lady as a companion of sorts.  Bea can speak French that much she knows and she remembers a house but doesn't know where it is until by chance she runs across it and discovers another murder years before was committed in that very house.  The story keeps your interest til the end.  Not a spectacular mystery but still a decent one.  I would read more of her books.	2003-09-24
US	38782199	RU5YVOIKVELLH	1560254149	588218166	Forbidden Truth: U.S.-Taliban Secret Oil Diplomacy, Saudi Arabia and the Failed Search for bin Laden	Books	5	27	28	N	N	I can see why the Bush people tried to ban this book	Some people would try to say this book shouldn't be trusted because it is written by the French, but I look at it this way, if, John O'Neill, the former head of the FBI's antiterrorism division, trusted Brisard enough to confide with him about his fears of Al Queda and the answers to them being found in Saudi Arabia and of our government, especially the current administration, of trying to block him from further investigation in that direction, then I feel I can also trust the author (besides which, much of the information in the book is being validated elsewhere).  The administration tried to make France sound terrible because they voted against going to war against Iraq without more reliable information, that was a right that they had as we have in the United States.  Remember, if it hadn't been for the help of the French, we wouldn't be the United States now.<BR>  <BR>Anyway, back to the book.  I am going to quote a part of the forward that gives a little summary  of the book, \\"Forbidden Truth\\" is the first comprehensive revelation of how the foreign policy of the President's father and the cozy relationship with the Royal Family of Saudi Arabia exploited and created an extremist army that eventually turned on its creators.\\"<br />\\"our government knew Saudi government was financing bin Laden's Al Queda through Islamic charities years before the attacks.\\"<br />Oil, and the power and money that it can give to certain individuals can be addictive and lead to abuses.  Because of how much our country depends on oil, a lot things have been overlooked by our government and certain people who profit from it in a huge way (the lives of our citizens take the back seat for many of these people).  <br />There was a pipeline for oil dream that developed that concerned Afghanistan, but in order for our companies to be able to go through it, the country had to be stable, which different people tried to show the U.S. (some our own people) that it was, when in fact it was just theopposite.  They were succeeding until the Taliban treatment of their women and their vile actions were found out.  Unicol a division of Chevron, of which Condoleeza Rice was a director of for years, was the company wanting to build the pipeline.  A representative from our country, who had been trying to negotiate with the Taliban to give us Osama Bin Laden and let us run a pipeline through Afghanistan reportedly told them that they could be blanketed with a carpet of money or with bombs if they didn't comply.  <br />The book details Osama bin Laden's path and describes Saudis and the events that led up to 9/11.  It also shows how the same people who were involved in the previous Bush administration are still involved in this one and it shows many connections of these people to the Oil and the defense building, like the Carlyle Group.  These are the people making a lot of money because of the war and stand to make a lot more, using our tax dollars and our young men and women to pay for it.  I think everyone should read this book and you will get a better idea of how Al Queda developed and why it became what it is today.   People from other countries know more about what is going on than we do and that seems to be the way our government wants it but we can no longer trust that we are receiving the whole truth, we need to dig deeper.  You owe it to your country.	2003-09-21
US	38782199	R3JYDTV4N98JTR	0689821867	738359886	Just Ella	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a different slant on the Cinderella story	I received this book with a bunch of others that a school teacher friend had given me and, being the book lover that I am, I had to read it before passing it along to another school teacher friend of mine.  It is quite good.  The language used in it is the more up to date lingo used today.  Ella is going to marry Prince Charming and is being prepped to be a good princess, but doesn't know if she really loves Prince Charming or not as she gets to know him better.  It is an excellent young adult book that they will really enjoy-I did.	2003-09-17
US	38782199	R1X2D7SE3CQ0ZP	0312966555	786190290	All Things Wise and Wonderful	Books	5	21	21	N	N	I would give all of his books more than 5 stars if I could!	If you want a book that will take you back to the country life and its people with all their foibles and admirable qualities and love animals then his books will be pure enjoyment!  I love the way he tells his stories.  In his stories, he doesn't ever claim to be the best veterinarian around (I think he underrated himself), but you know he is a wonderful, kind, animal and people loving person.  The way he speaks about the people and animals he comes in contact with, come to life and you feel you are right there with him.  You will laugh, maybe cry, and cheer him on as you read.  If you have animals, or raise them, you will love his books, although you don't have to own any to appreciate them.	2003-09-17
US	38782199	R19XH7AW3B0696	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	10	12	N	N	an accidental gem	It was by pure accident that I bought this book.  Some friends and I had traveled to another city to celebrate another friend's birthday and ended up staying overnight at her house.  Well, as I was up earlier than the others because we'd stayed up late visiting, I decided to go for a little walk so I wouldn't disturb them and what did I find but a neighbor having a rummage sale.  I am a sucker for books and couldn't help but pick up some and this was one of them.  Everyone wants to be successful, right?  <br />There are seven laws: Pure Potentiality, Giving, Karma or Cause and Effect, Least Effort, Intention and Desire, Detachment, Dharma or Purpose in Life.  Much of the advice that he gives coincides with the bible.  Like not judging, giving, wishing everyone well, etc.  I tried a little of it and felt good and I really think that if you apply his instructions in life, it will make a big difference.  It isn't always as easy to do as he says because we have a lifetime of living a different lifestyle, but I feel if I am persistent, it will make all the difference.  I am just going to have to work out the stress and worry I feel about the direction our country is heading, figure out how to use his laws constructively to help solve the problems.  I believe it will be possible.  Anyway, for what it is worth I believe if you follow his instructions that you will succeed.  Very interesting book!	2003-09-16
US	38782199	RI99CV556FEI1	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	excellent first book	For a first book, I think she did a wonderful job.  The only reason I didn't give it five stars is that I figured out who the murderer was early on in the book (maybe it was just a fluke).  Her main character, Kinsey Millhone, is a private investigator who is twice divorced.  She is hired by a woman who has been released from prison after being convicted of murdering her husband.  She says she didn't do it and wants Kinsey to find the real murderer.  There had been a second murder later that was similar to that of her husbands and Kinsey decides to look into that angle as well.  There is the usual murder and mayhem that follows.  I have read several of her books but never this one and I wasn't disappointed.  She makes the character of Kinsey Millhone very believable and likable with all its foibles and goodness.  I really enjoyed the book.  A nice fast and easy read that kept you interested to the end.	2003-09-15
US	38782199	R1R9MS06V1L312	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	86	92	N	N	a book for patriot Democrats and  Republicans	He writes a book exposing lies told to all of us by mostly extreme right-wing conservatives.  He is not attacking the Republican party as a whole, or the Democrat, for that matter, but certain individuals and groups. He isn't trying to say that all conservatives or liberals are bad, but there are several out there that have taken their lies so far out that they have hurt the country to the very depths of its soul.  All of us have a little liberal and a little conservative in us, some a little more of one than the other.  It is this small right wing group he talks of, compared to the entire country, that has turned this country upside down with their lies.  He is trying to clear some of them up.<br />Ann Coulter is one that he exposes.  Why anyone would want to believe her lies is beyond me.  Her ideas are so unamerican and unchristian that it is mind boggling that they even published her book, but then you see the people who support it and her and then you get a little better idea of the brain-washing that the people are getting.<br />He exposes the news media for its bias and shows the relations of various owners and their blatant use of distorting the truth.<br />He tells about how Bush distorts the truth about taxes.  How he tries to convince the average person how good a deal they are getting when the rich elite are the ones that are getting the deals.  Most corporations and such do not pay the taxes that they should in the first place and then they get the big refunds.  An example would be that under the Jobs Growth Tax Relief and Recconciliation act of 2003 under Section 179 expense Deduction: expense deduction was increased from 25,000 to 100,000 for 2003, 2004, 2005.  That is 75,000 dollars that will not be taxed.  If 100,000 take advantage of it, 7,500,000,000 dollars that will not be taxed in one year (multiply that times the actual number and it is mind boggling).  How many average people can afford to spend 100,000 dollars?  This is okay if your economy is in good shape which ours isn't.<br />Then he deals with the very people who made such a big deal about Clinton's moral misdeeds and exposes those same people who committed the same or worse moral offenses and yet had the temerity to act like avenging angels.  He shows us what a lot our politicians, etc. really believe in not just their public image.  I wonder how they will explain their actions when, or if, they meet God when Judgement Day comes for them.  He is fighting back as we all should, against those that lie to the people who elect them.<br />Then he tackles the Bushes and it is not a pleasant scene.  Money has been the driving force behind these people, with no regard for the average citizen.  The influence of money and moneyed people have paved the way of their transgressions.  He details their involvement with Ken Lay and the Enron Corporation, the one they tried to back off of when the scandal broke, but they were extremely involved with them for years.  He tells of George W. stating that Ann Richards of Texas was supported by Ken Lay (He says this on Jan. 11, 2002) to mislead his connection to Ken Lay.  Ann did get a campaign donation,$12,500 versus $146,500 to George W. Bush.  These are the kind of tactics that they use.  (If you want to more about George W., read &quot;Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President-a book they tried to get banned and even threatened the author and his family)  You Californians might be interested in how he helped Enron rip you off on energy prices during your crisis. He tells about that.  He exposes one Bush transgression after another.  I had to put the book down a few times to let my blood pressure drop as I read the book.<br />I agree with one of the other reviewers, in that, I think the reason more people haven't spoken out about all these offenses is that I don't think the people thought that anyone would believe all the crud spread around and just let it go, but now the people are up inarms, as they should be, and they are getting their act together.  It is a fight that cannot be lost if we want our country to be free again like it should be.  Get the Patriot Act repealed first thing and everyone get out and vote!<br />The book is very informative, not as entertaining as Al Franken's new book, &quot;Lies and the Lying Liars That Tell Them: A Fair and Balance Look at the Right&quot; (another book they tried to stop from being published), but it is just as important and good-an eye opener!in arms, as they should be, and they are getting their act together.  It is a fight that cannot be lost if we want our country to be free again like it should be.  Get the Patriot Act repealed first thing and everyone get out and vote!<br />The book is very informative, not as entertaining as Al Franken's new book, &quot;Lies and the Lying Liars That Tell Them: A Fair and Balance Look at the Right&quot; (another book they tried to stop from being published), but it is just as important and good-an eye opener!	2003-09-14
US	38782199	R2MNUN0GEI8RS2	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Thank you! Thank you! Thank you Al!	Gun toting Annie got shot down!  It's about time that the truth comes out about all the lies that have been made.  The saying that 'truth will set you free' is indeed accurate.  Al and his team took a punch at the right-wing liars and floored them.  He hits them with truth and humor at the same time.  He even took a few hits at Bush and his team (if you want to learn more about Bush's antics, read &quot;Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President&quot;.  It was a book that they tried to stop from being published also.)  This book is for anyone who is interested in the truth, no matter what party you belong to because no one can make accurate decisions unless they have the facts before them.  The people need more people like Al and his team who are courageous enough to speak out.  God bless you all!	2003-09-12
US	38782199	R38JZ1V9C64ID7	1887128840	969948196	Fortunate Son: George W. Bush and the Making of an American President	Books	5	150	164	N	N	well researched biography of George W. Bush	As with any book, like Al Franken's, \\"Lies....\\", any attempt to prevent it from being published, makes people want to know why, and that is why I read this book.  It is well researched, there are pages and pages of sources to back up his statements.  He had tried numerous times to talk to Bush about the book, but was ignored and then he and his family were threatened, they even knew the baby's name, if he published the book. Now that really got my interest.  When I started to read the book I was puzzled by their actions.  He didn't sound biased, in fact, as you read about Bush in his childhood you got the feeling he kind a liked him.  Bush was a little wild growing up, drank a lot and chased women, which a good portion of young men do at that time in their lives.  There's even a few stories, if he had wanted to, he could have used malice, but he didn't, in fact, I ended up grinning at a couple of his antics.  He was writing a biography and tried to write it as accurate and truthful as he knew how.  He told about Bush's drinking problems, how losing his little sister hurt him, about him accepting Jesus and his turning to sobriety and his business deals, etc.  As Bush matured, we get a look at a different person, one who doesn't act so christian.  The man he has turned into is one that is downright scary for the people of our country.  Through the name and position of his father, we find that young Bush is rescued and backed financially by moneyed people.  People with money who expected to be rewarded for their generosity and that is repeated over and over.  This book clearly shows us an accurate picture of the man in the White House.  If there are things in this book that he and his party don't like  (and there are many things), it is not the fault of the author, for he just reported the facts, Bush did the deeds.  We all, sometime or another, have to reap what we sow.  I would recommend that everyone should read this book before the next election so that you will know who this man truly is before deciding your vote.	2003-09-10
US	38782199	R1RYVMF0OYEJX4	0446516325	130563858	Fat Tuesday	Books	4	2	3	N	N	she's done it again	I don't think I have ever been disappointed in any of her mystery books.  This one was a little different in that the main character was a man rather than a woman.  He, Burke Basil, is a cop who accidently shot and killed his partner.  He wants to get the man, Pinkie Duval, who he thinks has been behind many of the crimes being perpetrated in his area. Pinkie has been too clever to get caught by normal means, so Burke decides to go after him in an unconventional manner.  He quits his job and decides to go after the one thing he thinks will upset Pinkie the most, Pinkie's wife, Remy.  He kidnaps Remy, and then things really get cooking.  The story keeps you interested til the last page.	2003-09-03
US	38782199	R2TKNZ2DRLWA2T	0743211936	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	5	5	6	N	N	an honest and open look at Jimmy Carter's youth	This was a wonderful book.  Mr. Carter tells the story about how he grew up in a warm and candid manner.  He grew up in rural Georgia during the depression era.  He tells about the farm life and the chores and the cold mornings when he and his siblings would rush to his parents bedroom, the room with the heater, to get dressed.  When he was on the farm he would play with black children and was close to the black families on the farm, but if he went to town to the movies with one of his black friends as soon as they got on the train they would seperate and go to different seating areas and when they got off they would walk to the theatre together and then again go to different seating areas.  That was the way it was at that time.  He talks about his family and how they interacted with each other.  He doesn't try to mince his words, he gives an honest account of his youth.  His family is a lot like most families {although not too many have one who was president), with some ups and downs, but underlying it all you can feel the love they have for each other.  When you read this book you will understand the man, from the history of his youth.  When I got done reading this book, I was left with a good feeling and a more positive attitude about the world.  Jimmy Carter, through his religious beliefs, has done a lot of wonderful things for the people.	2003-09-03
US	38782199	R36LUWMKM4Y52E	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	1	16	58	N	N	one of the best presidents we have ever had	To begin with, the first thing you see is Clinton with a golf tee in his mouth intimating it was all just fun and games (I don't know how many Republican presidents I have seen playing golf.  I have friends that play golf some are Republicans some aren't, but they all work hard.  Our current president takes the whole month of August off every year.).  During Clinton's administration,  all the people have to do is use their own eyes to see how much they accomplished while having to fight the right-wing bashers and a Republican Congress to boot. <BR><BR>  As to their supposedly indifference to terrorists, that is a lie.  Clinton's administration foiled several attempts.  Read the book \\"The Clinton Wars\\".  He told the people that it was one of the main concerns of our country (I heard him) and told the incoming administration the same.  He had made several attempts to go after Bin Laden, in fact, he had a plan to go into Afghanistan shortly after the election, but didn't want to start something with the new administration just coming in to office.   Reportedly, the plans were left with them only Rice denied it even though there was a witness.  There is more documentation that will discredit this author on that subject.<BR>  <BR>As to the files that Hilary took with her, I imagine it was her work.  She did not sit around twiddling her thumbs.  She was writing a book, and if you had read some of the books, \\"Living History\\" in particular, she did a lot of her writing on her trips.  You need paper and files to take with you for that. Does he see what was in the files? hmphf.. <BR> <BR> Let's see, Hilary would swear sometimes, he says, (wow!I bet none of you have).   I'll bet most of you that voted 5 stars did the same with Ann Coulter's books.  I know that gal can swear like a banshee, but, I know, it's different when you do it.<BR><BR>  He said that Clinton complained and said that the previous administrations were the cause of a lot the problems he had to face, well, duh.  I was alive and there during the twelve years previous to his presidency during the three terms of Republican presidents and I know of strong Republicans who were cussing their party even before Reagan was out.  They had the biggest deficit ever until the son came along and in two and a half years has taken a country with a surplus and made it the worst deficit this country has ever seen.<BR>   <BR>I have always voted for who I thought would do the best for our country, sometimes more Republican and sometimes more Democrat, but there is no doubt in my mind what party I will vote for now.<BR> <BR>The next man that has this author working under him is probably going to sweat and wonder what kind of book he'll write about him and what kind of malicious stories he'll spread.  Honor and decency doesn't seem to belong to some people.<BR>  <BR>I could go on and on, but I saw him on C-span once and even there he looked like he didn't know what he was talking about, end of story.	2003-09-03
US	38782199	R1FDOHXDVODP74	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a laugh out loud mystery	This was a fun mystery.  I found myself laughing out loud several times as I read the book. Stephanie Plum is a bounty hunter and not one of the agency's top agents.  She gets the mediocre assignments, only they don't always end up being mediocre to hunt down.  She is assigned to hunt down Uncle Mo, the local ice-cream store owner, much beloved by the neighborhood.  The people are mad because she is chasing him down and she says she's just doing her job.  Through various antics that keep us all entertained, she does her job.  A book that leaves you grinning when you finish just thinking about it.  I would recommend it whole heartedly.	2003-09-01
US	38782199	R125I2U3P7J8NV	0515131210	927649912	Shattered	Books	4	1	1	N	N	kept me entertained	I would give this three and a half stars for the story and one-half star for the bonus of learning a little about glass blowing.  I enjoyed the book, but was a little confused about why he didn't have the police arrest the ones that he knew who assaulted him.  It would have saved him a lot of trouble, but, I know it's just a book.  Never the less, I did enjoy the book.  It was just long enough that I could read it in one sitting and it moved right along.  The main character's friend dies in a freak accident while riding in a horse race.  The friend leaves a tape for Gerard and before he can watch it, it is stolen.  Other tapes have been stolen from the home of the victim and more of Gerards.  Solving the mystery of the tapes leads to many adventures that keep your interest until the end of the book.	2003-08-28
US	38782199	R1HJB8G3ZRXWKB	1575440636	273581298	Anatomy Of A Scandal	Books	5	2	2	N	N	this book is for those interested in the truth	I knew, as I would assume most people did, that the public was being fed a bunch of whoppers, but I didn't know the details.  The author takes us step by step revealing the lies and liars and how they were perpetrated.  I don't know about you all, but I like to be told the truth so that I can base my decisions and actions in an objective, fair and logical manner.  It hurts when you defend someone or a cause and then find out you have been lied to about it ( I wasn't happy to learn about Clinton/Lewinsky, surprised, not really.  But what he did did not affect his job,was not illegal and it was a private matter to be dealt within his family. I just wished he'd come clean earlier and then we wouldn't have had such a to do.)I was really upset when I found out the extent that certain individuals and groups went to spread tabloid lies etc.  And this was done by people we usually think are honest and straight forward like the evangelist Jerry Falwell, the media who we expect to gives us non-partisan facts, members in our judicial system,etc.  Then there were the women who were brought out from the woodworks by political pimps, segregationists who resented Clinton's efforts in promoting Civil rights, opponents who lost, rich people like Richard Mellon Scaife, politicians, Starr, Gingrich, etc. They all have their own agenda and throughout it all I have seen in no place where it was done with the good of the average citizen of this country in mind.  It was pretty much their own private agendas through which ultimately, we, the people, ended up suffering as a result.  Money, greed, revenge and power.  He takes us on a revealing trip through the Clinton Chronicles, listing and exposing lie after lie told by them.  What is sad is that there are still many people that believe these lies because we have been a too trusting country.  The media wouldn't lie to us, but they did.  He will detail how people spread the lies implying that Clinton was responsible for several murders.  The same people that were responsible for the lies in this book have been just as guilty, even more so, of the same things that they accused Clinton of doing.  Clinton did not use the same tactics, he did not resort to tabloidism as you will see if you read the book, \\"The Clinton Wars\\".  Other people would speak out now and then, like Larry Flynt who publicized the immoral acts of a certain Congressional member and the husband of the woman who had an affair for years with the Judge who would preside over Clinton's trial and, of course, Clinton got the blame even though the people who leaked the stories said he had nothing to do with it.  Of course when it happened to them they were outraged. Retter will list several of these people in the book and their misdeeds.  What we need to look into is, who is publishing these kind of stories and why would they?  We need to know who owns the various media outlets (t.v, newspapers, radio) and what their stand is on various issues, because our news is extremely biased anymore.  But read the book and if you think he hasn't told the truth, look the facts up yourself.  I have read several books and they have all told the same story and I haven't noticed a bunch of lawsuits, so that says a lot.	2003-08-28
US	38782199	R2QZLS1IYBSP1A	0684857340	790673878	...and the Horse He Rode In On: The People V. Kenneth Starr	Books	5	9	11	N	N	he paints the ugly truth about Starr	Me and Carville think the same about Kenneth Starr.  Neither one of us like him.  When you get through reading this book if you don't agree with us, then you probably don't believe in the principles that made our country.  It is mind boggling that people in this country could stoop so low to ensure winning.  In some ways they won a scrap, but they lost the big war.  Starr professes to be a Christian, but does un-Christian deeds.  Carville gives it to you straight and simple and concise.  I've read other books and they reaffirm everything that Carville tells us.  Starr was no hero and there was no rightful justice served by his witch-hunt.  Read it and see if you don't come up with the same opinion of Starr and his antics that we have.	2003-08-27
US	38782199	RNDH8C72G4D6I	0446604232	917393950	Exclusive	Books	5	36	38	N	N	never disappointing!	This lady has a wonderful gift in her ability to write wonderful books.  How she manages to think up all of her stories amazes me.  This book keeps you on your toes till the end.  Barrie is a reporter who has made a few mistakes in her previous reporting experiences and is struggling to improve her reputation in her occupation.  The president's wife, who lost her baby recently, asks to meet with her on an off the record meeting, much to her amazement.  From the meeting, Barrie sees a story on SIDs as the baby belonging to the president and his wife died of it.  As she looks into the story, it starts looking like murder instead, and then the story really heats up and doesn't let up until the last page.  Just when you think you have it solved another twist shows up and takes you in another direction.  Great book!	2003-08-25
US	38782199	R1LI1GDEXG0EJU	038542471X	282981210	The Client	Books	5	2	2	N	N	one of my favorites	This book is one of my favorite books written by Grisham.  I have read several of them.  The book was made into a movie and I enjoyed watching it more than once. I think what I like is that an eleven year old boy ends up having a certain control of the  situation for the most part.  He hears a secret from a mob lawyer who commits suicide and now the law wants his testimony but the boy is scared for his family if he tells what he knows.  He finds a woman lawyer who has her own personal problems, but decides to help him.  Both the mob and the law end up searching for him and there are many thrills and suspenseful events before the story is over.	2003-08-25
US	38782199	RME7F897FMEMK	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	5	25	36	N	N	Basically our right to have our vote counted was denied	Vincent Bugliosi loves our country and for what it has always represented-the people of the United States as a whole.  He is outraged that partisan members of the Supreme Court took the right of the citizens of this country, to have their vote counted, away from them.  It does not matter who won, it matters that their vote was dismissed and not counted as our constitution says it should be.  Also, when you find that over 50,000 people were denied the right to vote because their name was similar to one that was denied because of a prison sentence and that of all those, only about 3,000 were validated and the majority of them were people who were more likely to vote for Gore, then you know there was a gross miscarriage of justice.  No one should be denied to vote unless it is positively proven that they should be denied.  It doesn't matter which party did this.  I would much rather have let those people who shouldn't have voted vote than to deny the rights of the others.  This is not something we should get over, this is something that should be looked into and not allowed to happen again.  Our constitution should be upheld and the Patriot Act that denies our civil rights should be banned so that our civil rights are not in jeopardy.  Fascism (dictatorship) is coming closer to a reality and the people need to put a stop to it.  Also, as Bush's brother was governor and Harris, a strong supporter of Bush, they should have arranged a more non-partisan group to oversee the election.  And the Supreme Court judges, definitely, should have been non-partisan, but there shouldn't have been any Supreme Court people in the first place.	2003-08-24
US	38782199	RFA5BED6QQNEJ	0821769340	467390206	Cold Blooded (A Bentz/Montoya Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	thrilling	I really liked this book.  It is about a psychic, Olivia Benchet, who starts seeing what looks like a priest tracking down and murdering young women.  She has the 'gift' to see what others don't and wishes that she didn't have it, because it has been a curse at times in her relationships with others.  She feels she has to try and stop the killer, so she goes to the cops.  When she had previously gone she had been treated like a weirdo so she goes to Rick Bentz who has worked on another case that was similar.  At first he is of the same opinion but when they check out a murder, he finds that it happened just like she said it did and so, even still a little doubtful, he goes to her for help because he felt he should follow all leads.  It doesn't take long before he is convinced.  There is enough thrills, romance, etc. to keep the reader interested to the end with a hint of a start of another book.	2003-08-24
US	38782199	R2ILY13N0UDM9G	0385314744	11758110	Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations	Books	5	6	13	N	N	take a bow Al!	I couldn't agree more with Al.  This book is funny and more to the point, is a very accurate picture of Rush Limbaugh portrayed in a humorous manner.  Rush and his fans certainly won't like it, but it is about time he gets to be on the receiving end, even though Al is actually much nicer than Rush has ever been with his ridiculous comments.  I have this rating system on how high an IQ a person has as to how much they believe Rush and Al is a genius. :)	2003-08-23
US	38782199	RDG5QX243973H	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	0	1	N	N	either you like it or you don't	I could see my daughters just loving this book, but for some reason, maybe I was tired or something when I read it, it wasn't what I expected.  I really think there are people like the ones that the nanny worked for and maybe that is why it wasn't as funny to me.  This is not to say that the book was not good or entertaining because for certain people, I can see that it would be extremely so.  It just wasn't my cup of tea.	2003-08-23
US	38782199	R38JEO89TW64ZR	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	classic writing	I thoroughly enjoyed reading these books.  You want to start out with The Hobbit first before reading the others as it is the start of the story.  It took me a while to get used to all the new and different characters, but when I did, the story flowed right along.  These are books that you can easily enjoy reading several times over.  I have a brother-in-law who has had to buy new books because he had worn the others out.  I highly recommend the books.	2003-08-23
US	38782199	R29H82PST20UN0	0345447867	38131708	The Apprentice- Tess Gerritsen	Books	4	1	2	N	N	keeps your interest to the end	Actually, I would give this book four and a half stars.  It is well written, keeps your interest and keeps you thinking all the way through.  The characters, for the most part, are believable and interesting.  I am one of those people that when asked how I liked a book, I have to judge it on how I felt while reading and after reading it, rather than going into detail about the plot, etc.  I really liked this book and I will be reading more of her other books as some of the reviewers say she has better books.	2003-08-23
US	38782199	R1WV4BK98S79QZ	0684841185	466385534	Death du Jour	Books	4	0	0	N	N	not bad	This book is not bad, but it needs a little more work.  She has a good start on her characters, but they need a little more work so that they have more depth or something as they seem a little superficial.  Maybe it is because I have read and enjoyed so many of Patricia Cornwell's books and, as they are both about a woman who is in forensics or pathology, I unconsciously compare them and I shouldn't because they are very different heroines.  <BR>  The book is about a woman who splits her time between Canada and North Carolina who examines dead bodies.  A lot of the story has been told by the other reviewers so I won't go into too much detail except to say that she looks into the death of a century old woman that nuns want to make into a saint and many mysterious deaths that are extremely gory.  It keeps you on your toes and is packed full of murder and hayhem.	2003-08-23
US	38782199	R2GAII2Q5L31YJ	0375509038	863073313	The Right Man: The Surprise Presidency of George W. Bush, An Inside Account	Books	1	13	28	N	N	is the author selectively blind?	All you have to do is look at the shape this country is in to know that the author has not been honest in his appraisal of this president.	2003-08-22
US	38782199	R27T1NKN8TI680	0312245475	442933144	The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	30	35	N	N	for those interested in the truth	During the time of Clinton's campaign for presidency and the following years of his occupancy of the White House, we kept getting all these sordid stories and their innuendos, so much that anyone with an iota of common sense, knew that they were exaggerations. I wanted to know how the media, which, we as a people have trusted for years to give us true, factual, non-partisan facts, had all of a sudden turned into tabloid reporting. Not only did they pick at every little non-important private detail of President Clinton and his family, which had no relevance to his job as the president, it would completely ignore more important actions against our people by the other party. So I bought this book, not because I believed the lies about Clinton, but because I wanted to know how the inhumane treatment came about and who all were responsible. When you get through with this book, it will make you a little sick to realize that the people have been duped by greed, poor sports, immoral people. Common decency has no part in the lives of these people. Women came out the woodworks to make money for themselves through political pimps, the abuse of the legal system is downright scary for those of us who have believed in its righteousness, there was no sense of decency by his political opponents. They couldn't attack his policies because it is awfully hard to attack someone who is obviously trying to help the people and this country. Do they say, \\"we need to tax the poor and middle-class more and let the rich off\\", and do they say, \\"we don't want to balance the budget\\", do they say \\"we don't want to protect the money for social security\\", do they say \\"we want to use the tax-payers money to make more money for ourselves\\"? That won't do it, so they go after his private life, even though a good portion of those same people committed the same or worse immoral offenses. This book shows up many of these people for the corrupt people that they are- the journalists who forget that they aresupposed to report facts in their efforts to gain fame, the politicians, women who want to make money with their lies, wealthy right wingers, judicial people, etc. Everyone should read this book and others like it. I have read several books and then compared them and they all came up with the same story and I haven't heard of any legal actions, which, in itself, says it all. The people of this country, Democrats, Republicans, and others, have all been lied to and are still being lied to. This book just shows you that you can't believe everything you hear, that you need to look deeper.	2003-08-12
US	38782199	R2VJ3D4VWW8SXX	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If its not in here, then you're out of luck	This is the most comprehensive book on keeping house that I have ever seen.  It has stuff in it that I wouldn't have thought of and some I may never do, but that's okay because that is what she tells us to do.  The information is there to help us and for us to use as to what pertains to our situation.  She doesn't recommend that you have to do everything listed in here (thank God!), but lists enough hints and information that if we ever do need to know something then it will be there for us.  Very good!	2003-07-30
US	38782199	R2XDOJO64R3GQL	069621203X	823818016	Making a Home: Housekeeping For Real Life (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	good for men, women, those new to and used to housekeeping	This is a wonderful book!  I don't know of anyone who couldn't use this book for something or other.  It is well organized, gives easy and simple instructions, and with the five ring binder, you can add your own little hints.  It has labeled tabs that make it easy to find the subject matter you are searching for.  This book would be good as a gift for newlyweds, as a graduation present (young men could get good use out of it also), etc.  A very good, informational book that will be useful for years to come.  I highly recommend it.	2003-07-30
US	38782199	RH26RRJR6Z3C0	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	17	21	N	N	important book for everyone to read  Republicans &amp; Democrats	This book contains so many important facts that everyone should read.  We, as the average citizen, are going to be doomed if we allow these kind of actions to continue.  Another, maybe it was mentioned and I missed it, idea to be considered is something I had been wondering about and then I read another person's view and knew I was not alone on this thought process, but WHAT IF BREAKING THE NATION WAS DELIBERATE AND INTENTIONAL?  Our Social Security was protected before Bush came to office and now it is in jeopardy.  The people who are as rich as them do not depend upon Social Security in their old age, but most of us do.  They use our tax money to benefit themselves and lie to us.  If they break us, the majority of the people, and control the news media, which they about do now, how will we stop them.  How will we live?  This is not your normal Republican versus Democrat fight, it is a certain right-wing group against your NORMAL REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS and the Republicans don't know it yet.  We have grown, over the years, to trust the people we elected to do the best for all of us, but it is not the case anymore.  Too much corporate influence.  PLEASE READ THIS BOOK!  It may just save you.	2003-07-30
US	38782199	R2TDOD3G644JZV	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	5	8	N	N	upsetting, funny, serious, informative-never boring!	This is not one of those boring (yawn) history type books.  This book will entertain with humor, seriousness, shock attacks all written with a strong purpose behind it-to reveal the truth.  He takes pot shots of Republicans and Democrats alike.  My favorite area was about Bush and the rigged election.  There was a lot that the media here didn't publish, but an outsider discovered, that many of us never knew.  The lack of truth and reporting by our media is scary.  After reading about the people Bush has on his cabinet, you will, as an average citizen, be dismayed.  Oil, pharmaceuticals, tobacco, etc.  are the prime focus of these people.  What chance are we going to have for fair prices unless Bush's ratings continue to drop because of his using the lives of our young men and women and our tax dollars to increase his and his friends pockets and he has to do a compromise to get back in the running.  You notice he wanted the taxes to be lowered before we went to Iraq-he and his friends didn't want to have to do any sacrificing.  The election was an eye-opening reveal on how crooked it was.  Our votes did not count.  We preach about having a democratic country and want other countries to do as we do and then we don't do as we preach?  Anyway, this book is funny and full of interesting facts and, of course, a little (lot) of bias on the writer's part.  Very enjoyable.	2003-07-29
US	38782199	R24GRKS97SSW7M	0312070942	423300289	This Royal Breed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	it has stuck in my mind	I read this book a while ago and it is one that has left a lasting impression on me.  The story line has already been told by the others reviewers and it is a compelling story.  What has lasted with me is the fact that it took place during World War II on an English island, Jersey, under Nazi occupation.  Homes were taken over and food became scarce for both the Germans and the people living on Jersey.  It was a revealing read on the survival of war-time occupation.  It also had mystery, romance and drama.  I highly recommend this book.	2003-07-28
US	38782199	R2TXOFTLI33YF9	0786711280	474513613	The Woman Who Wouldn't Talk: Why I Refused to Testify Against the Clintons and What I Learned in Jail	Books	5	10	11	N	N	she went to jail because she wouldn't lie	This woman was put through the mill because she wouldn't lie for Starr and his team.  They needed her testimony because the other two witnesses (her exhusband and the other a big time crook) who had made up their stories to get their legal deals were not good enough to be credible.  They needed her testimony and she was stuck between a hard place and a rock because of the fact that the other two had lied and if she told the truth and said that she knew of no wrong doing on the part of the Clintons then she would be convicted of perjury, even though she would be telling the truth, because of their lies.  She knew this had already happened to another woman who truthfully testified in another case involving Bill Clinton.  The one who lied got off scott free and that woman who had told the truth was convicted of perjury.  The only thing she could do was not to talk or she could take the easy way out and do what Starr and his goons through implication wanted and lie about the Clintons.  She chose to do the honorable thing and wouldn't talk.  For this, she was sent to prison for 18 months in unspeakable conditions.  She was body searched, placed in solitary confinement, she had a lump on her breast that needed to be looked at, but had to wait months before they finally did (it was benign, but if it had not been, she would probably be dead by now, she had a back problem that needed treatment to prevent paralysis, they moved her from one prison to various prisons.  She trusted the women she was incarcerated with more than she did the guards and those who held her in jail.  And yet, she came out this situation with a positive attitude and loads of compassion for the women that she had been in prison with.  <BR>  What is scary about this book is that it could happen to any of us.  She ended up spending all her money as did many of the other innocent victims of Starr's witchhunt.  He used 40-70 million dollars of our tax dollars for nothing but smut.   This book is an a must read for those of you who are interested in the truth and justice.	2003-07-28
US	38782199	R25D9UIUXIBZIC	0743222245	376327637	Living History	Books	5	17	37	N	N	inspirational	I read the book and I enjoyed it.  It is a story of her life, with a little background on her family, and how she came to be where she is now.  She grew up with a strong christian belief and has worked tirelessly all her life to help people.  She worked hard for women and children's rights, health care, better working conditions, and the betternment of our country.  Eleanor Roosevelt was one of her role models.  She was a true partner in her marriage with Bill and he valued her opinions.  She was (according to another book written) valedictorian of the first college she went to, although she just says that she was asked to give the speech at her graduation.  She is not a braggart.  She admits when she makes mistakes and takes the blame.  <BR>  In the book you learn when she meets Bill and the course of their lives.  You learn of the ups and downs in their political battles.  She is a very loving and caring mother. You hear about her trips abroad, many with Chelsea, and her fight for women's rights throughout the world. You learn about the Monica Lewinsky matter and how hurt she was when she found out it was true.  She made the decision that life was better with Bill than without him, as many women and men have done.  They started a conversation thirty years ago and it is still going on, as she said.  <BR>You learn about her own campaign race for the senate.  She is a lady throughout this book.  You don't get the gutter tripe that a lot of other opposing books contain, that have been written lately, which, in itself, speaks volumes.  I have much admiration for her and much contempt for those who have told the lies about her.  The lies have hurt everyone and our country and now we are all paying for them.	2003-07-28
US	38782199	RUF8TVQQQZNI	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	3	1	3	N	N	and.....?	Maybe one of the other reviewers put it clearer in stating that the book felt incomplete.  I was hoping for a more in depth type of investigation like his Watergate book.  A lot of what he reported we already knew just from watching the news.  We did get a look at how the key figures interacted with each other and their different personalities.  If the people he interviewed were mainly those of the Bush 'Camp' then it's basically a one-sided viewpoint because they aren't going to give any incriminating or negative comments that would hurt their position.  So what I'm saying, I guess, is that it would have been a better book if hadn't been quite as biased.  It was an easily read book because he did a good job of writing so that the average person could understand it.  I'd liked to have had more information on why they attacked, how come it was so easily accomplished, what had they done to prevent something like this from happening as there had already been an attempt previously, etc.	2003-07-27
US	38782199	RJ2HSY0EC7TWZ	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	4	1	1	N	N	another good read	I have read many of Mary Higgins Clark's books and have enjoyed them all.  This was no exception.  Ellie's sister is missing and because she doesn't want to get her sister into trouble she doesn't tell her parents where she thinks her sister has gone.  The next morning when she still hasn't come home she runs to the garage where she thinks her sister has gone and finds her dead body.  They get the young man who killed her sister and send him to prison.  Because of the guilt and sadness that resulted from her sister's death, her parents divorce and she stays with her unhappy mother until her death.  <BR>  Years later, the man who murdered her sister, gets out of prison and says he is going to prove that he was innocent.  Ellie feels he is guilty and is going to come back and write a book proving it.  Anyway, there are many thrills and suspense as a result that keep you interested in the story to the end.<BR>   I find that most of her books stories have roots in the emotional or psychological state of her characters as a result of past experiences, often with them not being aware of it until the mystery is solved.  <BR>    Reading this book was an enjoyable experience.	2003-07-23
US	38782199	R2CEBS7J0U9YUQ	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	24	40	N	N	what better way to promote liberal thinking	As one of the previous true conservative reviewers commented, with this book and others she has written, she has actually made the liberal way of thinking look much better and nicer.  Many have turned away from the Republican party because of her, and other extremists, vileness and hateful way of looking at the world.  Read this book and then read LIVING HISTORY by Hillary Clinton and compare their personalities.  Hillary comes off sounding like a true,fair and compassionate lady and Ann comes off sounding like an uncontrolable shrew.  I am serious.  Ann labels anyone who disagrees with her way of thinking as treasonous and yet I know many people who don't agree with me and I think the world of them. Liberals love our country just as much as the conservatives.  I believe you need a balance to keep the country healthy and happy.	2003-07-23
US	38782199	R1KJ7VFEP2NNE	0425175413	669901920	The White House Connection (Sean Dillon)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	another great read	I debated between four or five stars and gave it five stars because I enjoyed it from the beginning to the end.  It piqued my interest at the first with the 60 year old hit woman and kept it all the way through the book.  She is killing the Sons of Erin and the British and American special intelligence are trying to find out who is doing it and why.  They are also looking for the connection at the White House who has been giving out secret information to the IRA group. I read this book in one day.  I highly recommend it.	2003-07-21
US	38782199	R2QN5BVOVYE2OB	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	delightful	Another good book, not quite as good as some of the others, but still a pleasant read.  Precious Ramotswe is busy.  She is moving her detetective office into her fiance's business to help cut costs as her detective agency is not doing as well, financially, as she would like.  Her fiance is not feeling well and she is trying to help him plus take care of a couple of orphans and solve her cases.  Her character is one of warmth, kindness, generosity and strength. One of the things that I like about these books is that I get a glimpse of what life is like in Botswana, Africa.	2003-07-19
US	38782199	R3KGZA9YXTCM2M	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	even better than the first one	This book is a continuation of the first book, THE NO. 1 LADIES DETECTIVE AGENCY, and is even better.  It would be best to read the first if you can, but this is good on its own.  Precious Ramotswe is the no. 1 lady detective, and she is a detective in Botswana, Africa.  Along with her mysterious cases, we get to learn about the culture in Botswana and we are entertained by the budding romance between Precious and the man she is engaged to.  An entirely delightful book.  I highly recommend it.	2003-07-16
US	38782199	R1U2OLR70OMMXO	0471429589	787745487	Martha Inc.: The Incredible Story of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia	Books	1	4	6	N	N	hoping for a more unbiased read	As I read this, I got the feeling that the author had been rebuffed by Martha and was getting even with her.  It seemed so full of hatred and snide remarks.  I really didn't get the feeling that I was learning about the real Martha, but of someone that had gone around to as many people as he could find, to any and everyone who would say a snide remark about her and then blasting her. (Some of the pictures you see, obviously come from his ex or someone close to him.) You begin to wonder what his agenda is.  I wonder if he is a Republican and this is another witch-hunt like the one done on the Clintons, as you can see in one of the pictures, she attended a luncheon to help Hillary's campaign. And now with the election in 2004 and her trial, is it going to be used to distract the voters.  What happened to Enron.  One thing that you learn in the book is that Martha, growing up in a not so easy family life, (an exacting father)succeeded to become one of the most prominent women of our time.  She came from the bottom to the top and in the process gave a lot of inspiration to women.  The next book, I would like to read would be about her and written by her.  I didn't get a true sense of her from this book-just a touch of meanness on the authors part.  I am sure that Martha is not a perfect person, no one is, but this was a little too much.	2003-07-16
US	38782199	R38LLWQ2VN10Y6	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a pleasingly relaxed mystery	This book is reminiscent to me of Tony Hillerman's books, in that we are taken into the lives of a different type of people with their own way of dealing with a different kind of lifestyle that we are not familiar with, only instead of the four-corner area of the southwest, we are in Botswana, Africa.  The story is not one of a thriller packed with action, but of a No.1 lady detective (the only one) who is approached by various customers to look into mundane to serious cases in her area.  It is a relaxing, funny, sad and thought provoking book.  It gives the reader a look at life in Botswana that is entertaing and informative and leaves you wanting to learn more.  There aren't many fiction books on life in Africa that is available to the average citizen  that is this enjoyable.  You have a relaxed, good feeling when you finish the book.	2003-07-15
US	38782199	R2WX0U1X0F89JU	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	13	19	N	N	the other side of the story	I saw the author giving a speach about his book on C-Span a few days after I had bought his book and found it illuminating.  I hadn't quite finished his book at that time.  I believe a majority of the people were already dismayed and tired of the constant harassment of Clinton by the media and right-wing conservatives by the the time of his impeachment.  The reason for the impeachment was so ludicrous and inhumane that those Republicans who forced this event and Starr hurt our country's image and the people's belief that our country is fair and just in its judicial system.  This book is good because it tells the other side of the story-the true side (A lot of people still believe the lies, even though with all the millions spent on the investigations nothing was found). It tells about their personal, domestic, and foreign wars.  You hear about the Starr/Lewinsky/Clinton case and the bullying antics of Starr.  You get the story on the Bush/Gore election and dirty actions that a lot of the people don't know about.  It is an important book to read.  We need to be more knowledgeable about the people we vote for.  We can't count on just the news because that is often distorted as you will see in this book.  We need to dig deeper.  Ultimately, we the people, choose the people who work for us, so we need to know their qualifications.  They can either make you, break you or steal from you.	2003-07-13
US	38782199	RY5RK7RF3HJ7O	0451201558	339633632	Cold Case (Alan Gregory)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a good read	This is a book that I highly recommend to anyone who enjoys mysteries.  It is packed full of thrills, twists, and regular human life, in that the heroes and felons are portrayed as to how real live people lives, how they feel mentally and physically,no one is perfect.  It is action packed and enthralling.	2003-07-04
US	38782199	R11MR461PYQ4DY	0553571885	34141079	A Thin Dark Line	Books	5	3	4	N	N	good	The story takes place in Louisiana.  A suspected murderer is set free because there is an accusation of evidence tampering by the cop who arrested him.  The cop is later found beating the suspect by a fellow officer, Annie.  Annie places Nick, the cop, under arrest as she feels duty bound to follow the law, but is harassed by her fellow officers.  She and Nick end up looking into the case together in an uneasy and suspicious alliance.  She finds herself being stalked in frightening circumstances.  Is it the killer?	2003-07-02
US	38782199	RSGIQWRM5QEU8	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	enjoyable	This is not one of his serious mysteries, but a fun one about a couple who decides to skip all the hoopla of Christmas because their daughter isn't going to be home for it this year.  They decided that they would use the money for a trip instead.  They run into all sorts of censorship and problems from their neighbors and everyone over the deal.  It is quite entertaining.  Buy the book if you want something that is light to read and leaves you smiling.	2003-06-30
US	38782199	R3FO3Z69YCYR5Z	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	attention getter	For someone who knows the basics of the computer and otherwise, is fairly illiterate when it comes to hacking and programming, etc. this was a spell-binding read.  There is a serial killer who uses the computer to get information on various people, the more difficult to get to, the better, and then murders them.  It is a game to him. He is so good that the police go to the prison to get the help of another great hacker. It is a book that keeps you wondering who the killer is and who his helper is till the end.	2003-06-30
US	38782199	RT5S1AU77605C	0440237262	515648474	The Program	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a different twist on the protection program	My sister-in-law loaned me a book written by Stephen White and I was hooked.  I really like his books and this was no exception.  It is a little different in that, instead of a criminal going into the protection program, a DA is placed in it to help protect her and her daughter from the man she placed in prison and who had her husband killed right in front of her eyes.<BR>  Are the legal authorities really protecting her? <BR>  She goes to a psychologist to help her get over the shock of her ordeal and unknown to those protecting her, she makes the acquaintance of another person in the program, only he is an enforcer or hit man.  <BR>  The psychologist and his wife, a DA herself, are major players in this book also.  It is a book you don't want to put down until you have finished reading it.	2003-06-30
US	38782199	R12KB5S229113O	0681565888	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	good book	I have several of Hillerman's books and I've enjoyed them all, with varying degrees.  I especially like the ones that center around Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn and how they work around each other.  There is a different ritual that the people in that area observe when they communicate which is not what most of us are used to.  You don't just barge in and ask blunt questions and expect to get straight forward answers.  There is a special protocol or manuevers one must follow first.  It gives an added interest and concept of a different society.  <BR>   I find that I connect, or identify with the characters because he has done a good job of making them realistic.  You can feel the heat of the day as Jim Chee or Joe Leaphorn are driving down a dusty road to visit the home of someone they want to question.  I feel like I'm right along with them, watching from the sidelines.  <BR>   The story is actually two investigations that come together.  Jim Chee is investigating the murder of one of their own and Joe Leaphorn, who is retired, has been hired to find a missing person.  Jim Chee has to battle his feelings of inadequacy when he is working alongside the legendary Joe Leaphorn as they search for answers.  There is enough romance, intrigue and thrills to keep a person interested to the end.	2003-06-29
US	38782199	R1NWA3CQZC7WYC	0446516317	392118825	The Witness	Books	5	2	4	N	N	wonderful	I read this book in one sitting.  It is packed full of mystery.  You think you know what is going on and then there is another twist to it.  It also has some humor amidst the lies and murders and intrigue.  She's on the run with a man who has lost his memory due to an accident.  She says he is her husband and then tries to sneak out off without him, but he is too smart.  He catches her at it and goes with her. He just can't remember who he is, but he knows she is lying to him, but doesn't know what it is that she is lying about.  She is an accomplished liar.  A lot of the other reviewers have added their two cents so I don't want to reveal anymore.  Just read the book.  You won't be disappointed	2003-06-29
US	38782199	R2625MDLV7IX7G	0786209631	473671370	Total Control	Books	5	1	2	N	N	exciting	I am a big fan of David Baldacci and I have several of his books.  This is a good book to read if you are someone who enjoys the computer and corporate world and plenty of thrills and espionage.  It keeps your interest all the way through it.  I highly recommend it as well as many of his other works.  I saw the movie &quot;Absolute Power&quot; which is taken from one of his books and I am now hooked.	2003-06-28
US	38782199	R2GWIFD0U9W2LB	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	1	2	N	N	wonderful	I love most of Grisham's books and have several of them and this is one of my favorites.  Another is THE CLIENT.  Two Supreme Court justices are killed and the government is baffled as to who could have done it and a law student decides to figure out who was responsible and does, but then is on the run for her life.  She can't trust anyone.  It seems that everyone that reads the brief she has written is getting killed.  There is a lot of manipulation in the government offices, from the White House, to the FBI, and to the CIA.  The FBI gets hold of the brief, but doesn't really take it seriously and yet there is mention of the President in it, and since there is a personality clash between some of the FBI officials and the administration, decides to make the president think they are taking it seriously. Then events really get rolling. The book is fast paced and exciting all the way through.	2003-06-28
US	38782199	R20KZOFFCE5Z3R	0446602620	435728437	Blood Work	Books	4	0	0	N	N	great	I love Michael Connelly's books.  I really like mysteries and he is one of the better writers.  This book keeps your interest all the way through it.  Terry McCaleb is an ex-FBI man who was good at running down serial killers.  He was forced to retire because of a bad heart-he ended up being the recipient of a donor heart.  The sister of the donor comes to him to see if he will help find the man responsible for her sister's murder-it is her heart that he has, and he does reluctantly at first and then becomes very determined to find the murderer.  You also learn a little about what a transplant person's life is like after the operation and how they cope.  Very interesting book that keeps your interest the whole way through it.  I recommend it highly as I do most of his books.	2003-06-27
US	38782199	R3IB0VKUXHEQOT	0446601853	932954693	Charade	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a good read	I have read several of her books and was not disappointed in any of them.  She must have a wonderful imagination to think up all these stories.  Cat has had a heart transplant.  She is a famous woman who has changed her career choice and is now being stalked.  She doesn't know who, but finds out that is has something to do with her heart transplant.  She has many suspects and there are many twists and turns.  It keeps you on your toes to the end.  A good book	2003-06-27
US	38782199	R23HOUE9EETKJ3	0439434866	667539744	Harry Potter Boxset 1-4	Books	5	2	2	N	N	books all ages can enjoy	I have all four of these books, I am an adult, and I thoroughly enjoyed each of them.  They are easy to read, easier than Tolkeins, although his are a great read too.  I've gone to the movies and have had children sitting behind me commenting the whole way through the movies about this character or that one, etc.  They had read the book and you could tell they loved it, but you can tell by the number of books that has been sold.  The books are an obvious story on fantasy and yet has a strong moral tone showing good versus bad, right and wrong, without it sounding preachy.  They are a fun read.  We need more writers that can bring the youth back to reading more.	2003-06-27
US	38782199	R3QFOMD1EBVCDU	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A case of check your facts before maligning people	This is a story where the author was so bent on acceptance that he wrote what he thought would please his so-called group of people and make him noticed big time.  He was used by this group.  They fed him facts and he believed them and wrote the stories that made millions of people believe these lies without checking the facts.  His conscience got the better of him and he wrote this book to try and rectify his mistakes.  It helps, but there are still people that believe the lies and our country is still feeling the results.  It is an interesting book.  It gives us a better look at how deceitful politics is.  You can't believe everthing that you see on the news.  You have to figure who is telling the story and then read between the lines.  Its sad that so many people believe everything they hear on the news as fact, but with a little emphasis or lack of emphasis on facts and omissions and half-truths a story is easily distorted.  So people use the brains God gave you and when you hear something, think where it comes from, who it comes from and how it benefits or doesn't benefit that person and read between the lines (this pertains to all parties and people).  <BR>I think it is very brave to admit you have been wrong and try to right the wrongs made.  David Brock has a conscience and he felt bad about the hurt he caused Anita Hill. A lot of the people he has worked with don't seem to have a conscience, which is a scary thing in this country.  I want our country back to where it was when honesty and goodness and looking out for your fellow man was a virtue.  I want a leadership that looks out for the majority of our countrymen not the 1-2% with money.  This book has shown how our country is being manipulated by certain rich people.  Richard Mellon Scaife spent 2-3 million dollars to try and ruin the Clintons.  Money was paid to troopers to tell stories, and in the White Water affair.  There had been nothing to it.  It had been looked into and dismissed, but they sent Starr in and when he couldn't find anything he went smutt hunting.  They wasted so much of our taxpayers money on this, to drag up tabloid stuff.  This is what our money went to.  Basically, having an affair is not illegal in most states.  It is something that is between the husband and wife.  It is morally wrong, but unless it was something that endangered our country it was not worth 70 million of our tax dollars.  The way Starr went at it was a form of entrapment.  Unless I am mistaken, taping someone without their knowledge is illegal and yet they used Tripp's tapes with Lewinsky?  <BR>I am glad he wrote the book.  It is one more validation of the right-wing conspiracy, but for those of us, and there are a lot of us, we already knew that.  Shame on the news people for reporting such tripe.  Give us facts that affect the country, not tabloid gossip.  <BR>Read the book. It is interesting, informative and eye-opening.  Worth every penny!	2003-06-24
