US	38780927	R3REGKZEJGR9QY	034547631X	146898685	The Poet of Tolstoy Park: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	This book is a treasure, of writing and ideas.	I loved this book, and for many reasons.  It is finely written and nicely conceived.  It honors reflection and solitude, in ways our modern society has largely ignored.  It pays homage to the importance of community, at a time when too many of us fly about in frenzied and hurried fashion, self-absorbed.  It values a life of simplicity, much like Thoreau fashioned on Walden Pond.  Finally, it shines a glorious light on courage and resilience in the autumn and winter of one's days, that time when we face our mortality. <br /> <br />Henry Stuart is quirky and independent, hermetic yet endearing, thoughtful and inclusive of others, despite his intentions otherwise.  He cherishes honest and thoughtful interaction with others.  He'll grant others their oddities if only they'll grant him his. <br /> <br />Like another lingering, sauntering work, \\"Cold Mountain,\\" we know where the story is going and enjoy the telling for what it is, a poetic and reflective journey lived one day at a time, one task at a time, offered like a hymn of praise. <br /> <br />I savored the language and the thought, often reading a half-dozen pages and putting the book down so that I could ruminate properly, much as Stuart would do.  This is one of those books in my library that I'll treasure, often running my fingers down its spine and smiling as I enjoy a moment of memory and the anticipation of reading it again. <br /> <br />My hat's off to Sonny Brewer for making the time to craft such a fine novel.  He has brought credit to himself and Fairhope in the process.  He loves words and books, writing and ideas, Fairhope and community -- that's obvious.  I'm grateful that he shared so generously.	2005-07-11
US	38780927	R3A7K2Q96KLLSO	0553802208	514415907	The Death and Life of Charlie St. Cloud	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Touching Tale	This is a book about turning loss into affirmation ... about keeping promises ... about unabashed belief in miracles.  And it's a book about second chances.  All of it worked for me.    <br /> <br />To summarize this wonderful tale would ruin its tender surprises, and there are many.  The guiding premise is that we need to grieve and let go.  Those who have died feel our pain and linger in spiritual limbo until we do.  Unfinished business on either side of life complicates our ability to move on. <br /> <br />Sherwood's writing is underplayed, stopping dangerously short of sentimentality, as he reveals the connections that bind us, one to another.  Charlie is connected to his brother Sam, certainly, but he is likewise connected to others, notably Mr. Guidry, the widower who visits his wife's grave every day, and Tink, his friend and drinking buddy.  These connections exert their influence here in life and later in the afterlife.  These connections define life. <br /> <br />I heartily recommend this book.  It shines a shimmering, uplifting light on our strivings.  It's magical and romantic, a pure delight.	2004-12-27
US	38780927	R1XO3L8KJ03RAW	0425168697	365120378	Starting Out In the Evening	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Graceful writing, important questions	Brian Morton has crafted a fine novel that asks subtle questions about art and life, youth and age, father and daughter, love and loss.  To his credit, he allows his characters to insinuate a few answers in their choices. <br /> <br />Without giving another summary (others have done well in this regard), I would rather mention the tender complexity of the characters: Heather, the dreamy graduate student, confronts the reality of Leonard Schiller, the author of two novels that left such a lasting imprint on the mind of an impressionable young girl; Leonard, the aging novelist who has committed his life to art, writing four novels and grinding away to complete his fifth and last, enjoys one last lascivious taste of desire; and Ariel, the author's daughter, meanders along seeking meaning in life, in her work and, hopefully, in one romantic, loving relationship. <br /> <br />Not much happens.  Heather writes her master's thesis; Leonard's health deteriorates; and Ariel finds increasing comfort in a resuscitated relationship.  Their lives intersect and the dynamics leave all wondering (and wandering) about what's important, and about the essence of themselves. <br /> <br />Morton's portrayal of these characters, and of the internal complexity of their choices, is compassionate and forgiving.  The novel is delightfully and slyly complex, though its rendering is spare and elequent.  I recommend this book to all readers of fine fiction. <br />	2004-10-19
US	38780927	R3P2TZDDUE28WI	0805076476	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not for the reader who loves Jane Austen	This is visceral fare, indeed.  FIGHT CLUB is searing satire, with smirks instead of guffaws.  Tyler Durden taps the anger and frustration of those who join Fight Club to cleanse themselves of the meangingless of life, and then he forms another project that unleashes organized terror on the city and its organizations.    All of this is told by a nameless narrator who also finds release in fight club, who increasingly behaves like Tyler Durden, and ultimately rebels against the senselessness of attack against the senselessness of life.  He learns that the response is a deadly as the deadening routines of work and life. By the end of the book, we wonder who is who: who is the narrator, who is Tyler Durden, and who are all of the soap-producing zombies who advance Project Mayhem.    This a book that will deliver a hard blow to the stomach, the groin, and the head ... a book that will haunt your thinking ... and a book delivered in razor-sharp prose, intended to draw blood.    Read it at your peril ... your peril of seeing life differently, and of questioning many of the heartless tasks you're expected to perform where you work, all to advance the organization's objectives and safeguard the \\"bottom-line.\\"  Much of what we do day-to-day is as pointless and meanspirited as Fight Club and Project Mayhem.	2004-10-16
US	38780927	R1OV9NAVMQ9R78	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Graceful, restrained and of classic proportions	What mixed reviews!  My response, however, is not mixed.  I believe we will read this book for years and years.  I also believe it is a book that works wonderfully or not at all.  There is little middle ground. <br /> <br />For those who have not lost a beloved, the book's power may remain elusive and farfetched.  For those who have suffered serious loss, then the book's primal force remains inescapable.  Grief burns with reckless intent.  Life seems surreal, humorless, strident.  Behavior can be dysfunctional, erratic.  In this regard, Sebold gets it right, and she offers it with graceful restraint.  Less can be more, as we know from other works that tackle the big theme of life's meaning: Hemingway's THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA, Hesse's SIDDHARTHA, and Camus's THE STRANGER. <br /> <br />Father, mother, sister, and brother -- they all stagger along, groping and grasping for understanding.  Their pain is amplified by not knowing -- not knowing what happened, not knowing if Susie's alive or dead, and not knowing the tenuous closure that a funeral provides.  In essence, they are consumed by \\"not knowing.\\" <br /> <br />Beyond this, Sebold takes a huge risk in having Susie tell the story from heaven.  We learn of a heaven that anyone could embrace (enough said).  We also learn that hell may be here, for those, the living, who try to make sense of the senseless, who try to embrace an affirmation of hope, and who try to find the courage to let go.  Of course, \\"trying\\" is the problem ... and what grace is all about. <br /> <br />Sebold has crafted an unflinching and ultimately life-affirming look at our most definitive pain, loss.  That is the transcendent beauty of this book.	2004-08-23
US	38780927	R1LFUDTCKQLPRT	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A meditation on what matters	I agree with other reviewers who believe this work falls short of SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS (just short, however).  Guterson's second novel is, nonetheless, a worthy and well-written work about a man's journey into the mountains to commit suicide.  Ben Givens, formerly a skilled heart surgeon, believes he has lost all reason to live.  He has lost his wife, his work, and now his health because of incurable cancer.  In essence, his decision represents a failure of heart.    Before leaving, he makes it appear that he intends to return home, setting the stage for his act to appear like an accident.  He heads east into the Cascades, in  his old International Scout with hunting dogs, provisions, and shotgun.  Soon there's a problem.  Distracted by his dogs, he skids on a wet mountain road and slams into a tree.  Suddenly, he is need of help, from others, and it arrives in unlikely ways: from a young couple, a drifter, a veterinarian, a migrant worker, and a rancher.  They help Ben beyond their understanding, and beyond his, too.    This is a story that weaves its magic slowly, patiently, and on more than one level, much like COLD MOUNTAIN.  This is a journey of the spirit.  This is a journey forward through the mountains and backward through a life.  This is a journey into what matters when all seeems lost.  Along the way, Ben reminisces about his childhood, his roots, his family, his military service in World War II, and his wife -- a summing up and a reconciliation, a meditation on what mattered most in his life.    Guterson continues to craft novels of artistry and literary merit, tales that tackle substantial themes.  He is a writer to watch.	2004-08-13
US	38780927	R3O7632XM0B6VX	0446606065	516121189	Necessary Madness	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A fine first novel	Just seventeen when she wrote NECESSARY MADNESS, Jenn Crowell has fashioned a novel wise beyond her years.  Her ability to tap into the deep, maddening ache of grief belies her age.    Gloria, while studying abroad in England, falls in love and marries a British painter, Bill, who is gentle and thoughtful and unpretentious.  They are happy, gloriously happy: Bill paints and Gloria teaches.  They conceive a son and life seems good, too good.  Then Bill suffers from a loss of energy and bruises on his arms.  Tests reveal cancer.  Slowly, he dies. Gloria, bereft and adrift, tries to carry on, but she is unable to contain an unpredictable emotionality.    Since the book opens on the day of the funeral, we learn through flashbacks the history of their relationship as well as the history of Gloria's dysfunctional family -- a cloying father and a resentfully shrill mother, an American and a Brit, like Gloria and Bill.    This is curious territory for the debut novel of a college sophomore, though she handles it admirably, stopping just short of maudlin, mawkish sentiment.  Her writing and pace are superb.  She has a good sense of how to tell a story but falters in handling characters.  Too often they fall short of the complexity and depth we expect (Gloria is the exception).  Relationships often seem unsubstantiated, rushed, and one-dimensional.  For example, Gloria's deep disaffection for her mother seemed unjustified and puzzled me.    Overall, I found the work engaging and worthwhile; its strengths overshadowed its soft spots.	2004-08-12
US	38780927	R374XLEO8K65R0	0394555287	841654185	Trump: The Art of the Deal	Books	4	15	21	N	N	Valuable reading still	I read this book many years ago.  Now, of course, with the success of \\"The Apprentice,\\" everyone's watching Trump.  For those who wonder whether this early book is timely, I say YES.  It is filled his Trump's self-promotion, indeed, and it is filled with his insight into deal- and money-making.  It is well worth the time.   <br /> <br />In fact, I unearthed an old spiral notebook that served as a journal at the time.  Flipping through it, I found my notes of his advice, the salient points of the book.  I also realized that it had been too long since I refreshed my memory with his recommendations, which remain valuable today: <br /> <br />   o  Think big <br />   o  Protect the downside and the upside will handle itself <br />   o  Maximize your options <br />   o  Use your leverage <br />   o  Enhance your location <br />   o  Get the word out <br />   o  Fight back (when necessary) <br />   o  Deliver the goods <br />   o  Contain costs <br />   o  Have fun <br /> <br />If you're interested in \\"The Donald,\\" you need to read this book -- for the commentary, the biographical information, and the chance the see the world of commerce as he sees it.  The fellow who wrote it for him made enough money from the project that he was able to write the book, WHAT REALLY MATTERS MOST: SEARCHING FOR WISDOM IN AMERICA, a book (non-fiction) I recommmend highly.	2004-08-09
US	38780927	R4S4LX8GURM87	0380732335	643428545	Florida Road Kill: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Trouble in Florida again	Dorsey takes us on a wild ride again, so strap your seatbelt and hang on.  Characters from other books continue their life of crime and drugs, notably Serge and Coleman, as they speed along (pun intended), pursuing an elusive suitcase loaded with cash. <br /> <br />Along the way, a few folks suffer unusual forms of death while Serge and Coleman narrowly escape detection.  Their journey takes them from Tampa to Miami, and then to the Keys and the Dry Tortugas.  The space center and the world series play into the plot, too.  It's life lived on the edge, maniacal and fatal for most characters.  At the end, we do get a dose of romance as foxy Keys' policewoman follows the trail of crime and finds David, one of two friends on their annual fishing trip who get mixed up in the mess. <br /> <br />Another reviewer has noted a few points I have to echo.  The cast of characters grows ungainly, the grisly murders seem excessive, and plausibility is stretched beyond the breaking point, well beyond what Hiaasen offers in a plot.  It's loads of fun, taken for what it is, a raucous high-spirited romp, but it's too far over-the-top for me (write it off to thinning hair and waning years).  Its excesses become cloying: too much death, too much contrivance, and too many characters. <br /> <br />That Dorsey should have a loyal following of readers is understandable.  His books are wacky entertainments.  If you would like more restraint, as I do, try a similar book by Michael McClelland, OYSTER BLUES.  It's just as irreverent and hilarious, but, for me, it's more convincing and better written. <br /> <br />	2004-08-09
US	38780927	RYPBYNR9PZLEU	0061031550	151169729	Triggerfish Twist (Serge Storms)	Books	3	1	7	N	N	Reading for the fun of it at its best	Dorsey is loads of fun, like Hiaasen and others who write the wacky Florida mysteries.  I enjoy reading them when I need a breather from more demanding reading.  His books go down like cotton candy, light and sweet, and highly aerated. <br /> <br />This zany work introduces a dizzying array of characters -- all misdirected or misused, drugged or crazed -- who collide with one another and form unlikely alliances.  The plot leads them to a climax beyond any you've read, one that generates more fireworks than you'll see in the biggest July 4th bashes.  Keeping people straight can be tricky at times, since they all spin out of control, careening toward their explosive rendezvous. <br /> <br />This is satire raised to absurdity.  You'll smile, you'll laugh, you'll love it for what it is, entertaining escapism. <br /> <br />But ... let's be judicious and discriminating with our ratings, please.   A book, like a movie, can be great fun without being great art.  This is an example.  For this reason, I cannot in good faith give this 5 stars when I've given a finely written, fully realized, and well-developed work such as REMEMBERING BLUE by Connie May Fowler 4 stars. <br /> <br />This is a hoot of a good book, for easy and hilarious entertainment.	2004-08-07
US	38780927	RZCXD58HE3B2U	076790592X	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Share the moment ...	I read this book as my father lay dying of emphysema. What this book emphasizes is what I experienced: the sacredness of the \\"moment\\" with one you love. This is the gift of the book and the gift of spending time with a father or mother, mentor or friend, as they die. Much of it is challenging, prompting anguish and angst, but all of it is sacred.       This book reflects the experience faithfully. If we attend to those who are dying, they will share their wisdom, for they must. It is a part of the letting go process. They need to comment on their journey, to say goodbye in their own way. So we give them a gift in return: caring. It's what we all pray for when our time arrives to fade away, to move on. We pray that someone will care enough to be there, simply be there, and listen. That's what Mitch Albom did. And that's what we can do, too.      This book is a treasure for that alone. It can serve as a model for others, a guide, a handbook.      But read it also for a glimpse at Morrie's love affair with life and courageous acceptance of death. He paid attention to others all his life, teaching and sharing, dancing to the tunes of life. It was fitting that Mitch paid attention to him when it mattered most, a glorious and graceful tribute, to be sure.      This book is timeless.	2004-08-06
US	38780927	R1VPHY80CUHMOT	0679774025	504166475	All over but the Shoutin'	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Writer's Writer	This book stands as a testament to the power of the word and the power of mothers: both can transform us, saint and sinner alike.  While Bragg writes like a demon, his momma loved liked an angel, and this book is his tribute to her.  That Bragg can bring us to tears and laughter, sometimes on the same page, is a reading experience no one should miss.  This man can write! <br /> <br />I was equally moved by his other memoir, AVA'S MAN.  They will be read as long as we care to know the past in poor rural communities, in the South and elsewhere, and as long as we care to witness the emergence of a passion, whether it's writing or painting, practicing dentistry or carpentry. <br /> <br />I have often used sections from Bragg's books to illustrate writing at its finest and most human.  Students always get it, and many go on to read Bragg's books.  Invariably, they express their admiration.  Bragg's appeal is universal because his struggles are universal.	2004-08-04
US	38780927	R2TN11RVAIDKA6	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fell short for me	A friend recommended this book, saying she couldn't walk past it in a bookstore without lovingly touching its spine.  I bought it and began reading, eager to experience a similar enlightenment.  It never happpened, and I wonder if it's the book or I with the problem.  So I hesitate and resist the urge to give it 3*s (wishing I could give it 3 and 1/2, I bumped it to 4).    So many love this book that I am willing to say it is I who didn't respond properly, and as a result will read it again.  I do admit that it is well written and nicely framed, as stories go.  Also, the main character is fully developed, especially early in the book.  Perhaps my expectations sought more from it, more understanding about life and death than I received from the resolution.    I'll grant that there's a patient faithfulness, a resignation to hope that lifts this book and keeps you reading, rather similar to Hemingway's THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA.  That itself is an achievement.    To those who love this book, my apologies.  To those thinking of reading it, please do ... and draw your own conclusions.  As with most fabulations, they either work or they don't.	2004-08-04
US	38780927	RL1A8K10JUGE2	0375724443	177766244	Ava's Man	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Moonshine for the spirit!	How can I add to what others have said?  This is life distilled, 100-proof stuff that will make your head spin.  This is life reduced to its rawboned, hard-scrabble, drinking and loving and dancing wonderfulness.  This is a classic memoir that ranks with Crew's A CHILDHOOD: THE BIOGRAPHY OF A PLACE.     Destitute, disappointed, depressed, disillusioned, disenfanchised -- so what?  Read this book and you'll soar on the possibilities of the human spirit.  You'll witness lives that rise above discouragement by sheer will.  They just do it.    Charlie Bundrum is a man for the ages.  He was rough, tough, and difficult.  But he loved and protected and made life possible for his family.  These vignettes, chapter after chapter, are offered in the tradition of oral folklore, a history of the Deep South, a time when men fished and brawled, drank moonshine and held babies, stood firm with children and neighbors, by fist or gunshot -- all in the same day -- and that was life.     What a life!  What a book!  What a writer!	2004-08-04
US	38780927	R10WBPLRHXGHKW	015602943X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Swept away by the power of literature and love	This story has touched me deeply, forcing me to reconsider the fragile and timeless nature of love. Its rich tapestry swept me away.<br /><br /> I was &quot;wowed&quot; from beginning to end. This, above all else, is an old-fashioned love story. Beyond this, the book defies easy classification, a genre-bender. Yes, there's romance, there's science-fiction, and there's mystery. But make no mistake about it; this is literature, and it's magical.<br /><br /> The story is told from the shifting points of view of Henry and Clare. Their love grows and matures, as they adjust to being together and being apart, a they attempt to conceive, as they seek a cure for Henry's genetic disorder, and as their grip on life together seems to slip. We grow to adore their wacky friends, too. We befriend them and fall in love with them, too.<br /><br /> Having read many books in the past few months, this one belongs on the shelf I reserve for the best, and the ones I intend to read again and again. The story is ingenious and inventive, the characters quirky and believable, the romance tender and dreamlike, the writing exquisite (as well written as other fine books I've read -- PRODIGAL SUMMER, EINSTEIN'S DREAMS, A GOOD SCENT FROM A STRANGE MOUNTAIN, and CROOKED RIVER BURNING).<br /><br /> Know that you will be challenged to keep track of time, but your challenge is no greater than Henry's, the time-traveler ... and that's the point. The shifting perspective achieves its effect parallel to the unpredictable time-shifts in the lives of Henry and his beloved Clare, whose longing for each other permeates every page.<br /><br /> Niffenegger has crafted a fine, fine book, one that will last for years. I recommend it enthusiastically. Get this book and savor every sentence, every scene. It is a triumphant debut.	2004-08-01
US	38780927	RPM6PHYKO6RTQ	0151002940	788659840	Crooked River Burning	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Deep Saga Telling	This is a novel that challenges and rewards in equal measure, a saga of Cleveland, a panoply of engaging characters who grapple with the twists of fate in the city and its defining crooked river, The Cuyahoga. How Winegardner weaves his story is impressive, bringing together mobsters and politicians and journalists, and how he makes us care about their fate and Cleveland's in their wake is the magic of grand storytelling. Any attempt at a faithful summary would require more space than I think is justified in giving my opinion here. Others have done well enough.      Winegardner has a great ear for speech. His dialogue is spot-on. He also has a fine sense of what drives people's deepest ambitions. His characters are large and complex. And he obviously loves baseball, America's first sport of choice (which has yielded to football).      I'm currently in the early stages of reading THE VERACRUZ BLUES, his &quot;baseball novel&quot; that's far more than that, akin to Malamud's THE NATURAL in literary strength. He's hooked me again.      Now I understand Winegardner's selection to pen the sequel to Puzo's THE GODFATHER. He will write a worthy book, most likely far better than the original. I can't wait. I've never read Puzo's book, but I will as preparation, call it a warm-up, for the sequel.      This writer is good and here to stay.	2004-07-31
US	38780927	R331RUH3X00ID8	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Remarkably touching	By turns heartwarming and heartbreaking, Haddon's book explores new territory -- that of an autistic fifteen-year-old boy seeking to make sense of an emotionally complex world.  Literal and logical, mathematically-gifted, Christopher sees each day as a puzzle to be solved, just as he sees the curious death of a neighbor's dog as a mystery worthy of his detective work.  His notes become this book.    Often the world is too dense with detail.  He recoils from overload and withdraws to protect himself: by hiding, groaning to block out stimuli, rocking, losing himself in mathematical puzzles, and even hitting others to forestall their unwanted advances.  He avoids crowds, being touched, the colors yellow and brown, metaphors and jokes.  So long as he can render a day by a concrete timetable, he can navigate relatively unthreatened.    Sadly, his world is altered in ways beyond his grasp when he discovers what really happened to the dog, as welll as his father and mother.  He seeks protection in the only way he knows, and somehow finds his way to a train that takes him to London, evading police and other well-intentioned folks along the way.  In the end, he has arrived as close to home and understanding as he can get.    Haddon has written a remarkable book.  That he can tell this tale from the point of view of Christopher is a staggering achievement.  That he can maintain an emotionally detached voice while generating such emotion for the reader is incredible.    I recommend this book highly, and I recommend it in relation to another remarkably touching work, THE DOGS OF BABEL.	2004-07-30
US	38780927	R11R89T82W9RNH	0385496095	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	5	5	10	N	N	The real deal	I read this book lovingly and then shared pieces of it with my students, since it displays such an unrelenting commitment to living (even when it leads to self-abusive behaviors) and to writing.  Her life seems a downward spiral, but we learn that there is an ever-blowing upward current if only she will surrender to it.  She knows this, too.  Her writing is honest and courageous, chronicling her slow surrender to a life of faith, and detailing her devastating struggles to cease a life of drugs, alcohol, and sex.        Her journey is our journey. Change the location. Change the choices. Change the reflections. Change the steps to grace. It doesn't matter. It is a journey we all must make.        We feel this book deeply. We travel with Lamott and urge her on. We understand. We know the sustenance through challenge that raising a child involves; we know the healing balm of true friendship; we know the heavenly lift of Christian fellowship, and we know that torment of being authentic to oneself. Her unadorned, honest writing shines light on understanding and growth. Sometimes what we see is not pretty, but we know it's real.	2004-07-27
US	38780927	R2NNSVT14IQMY0	0060935286	63603345	Kill Two Birds & Get Stoned: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Kick back and enjoy the ride for what it is.	This is my introduction to the wacky fare of Kinky Friedman. As a result, I had no expectations, no preconceptions. What I found was a funny tale of a struggling writer who ends up entangled in the comic and illegal cons of two runabouts: Clyde Potts, one gorgeous chick, and Fox Harris, one inscrutably delirious guy.      Their unusual times together provide the narrator, Walter Snow, the material he needs to write ... and provide us, readers everywhere, with the tease regarding whether the voice and experience are those of a fictional character or Kinky himself. Meanwhile, Walter has fallen hopelessly in love with Clyde and dreams of a romantic relationship, even though he fears she and Fox are linked in ways beyond his understanding.     The comedy is madcap and sometimes over-the-top. Still, Kinky sustains our interest in where this odd threesome will go. Add to this comic fare Kinky's probing asisdes about the elusive nature of writing and you get an oddly romantic and enticing book.  While this is not a book that will last, it certainly is one big chuckle of a read, a delight for a rainy or snowy afternoon when one seeks comfort in pure entertainment, smiling and laughing, cozy under the afghan, unconcerned with weighty matters of life, watching a wordsmith (credit to Fannie Flagg) spin a yarn.      No need to look for deep themes or hidden meanings ... just enjoy!	2004-07-27
US	38780927	RIX46J18BXFQM	0316778508	744408823	The Dogs of Babel: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Love and loss	Like The Lovely Bones, this work tackles the challenge of turning devastating loss into life-affirming resolve.  The main character, Paul, seeks to understand what caused his wife's death.  Did she climb their apple tree and fall accidentally, or did she climb the tree to commit suicide?  There was one witness only, their dog Lorelei. <br /> <br />We follow Paul's efforts to teach his dog to talk.  If he can succeed, then his pet can help him make sense of the incongruous details of his wife's death.  He takes a sabbatical from teaching linguistics, triggering concern and taunts in equal measure from colleagues.  He then seeks help from others who have tackled the same challenge.  These others, however, have surgically altered the jaws and throats of dogs.  While Paul has no intention of such inhumane treatment, he is desperate.  Fortunately, Paul pulls back soon enough to save Lorelei. <br /> <br />Without divulging more of the story, I would like to say that I recommend this book to anyone who liked The Lovely Bones, and anyone who understands that adversity strengthens us, and that such adversity can be rendered beautifully in literature.   <br /> <br />We watch a man struggle back through memory to the signposts of of his wife's illness.  He shows us that she suffered from unpredictable waves of depression and an unusual interest in death.  We also learn that the masks she crafted, often colorful and comic, are eerie represenations of the mask of cheer and hope she tried to wear.  As he reaches a regrettable understanding, so do we. <br /> <br />This is an impressive debut novel.  Parkhurst's writing is smooth and graceful.  She moves the story along gently and compassionately.  She slowly reveals the mystery of Lexy's thinking.  That we don't get a greater measure of understanding at the end is appropriate; Paul's wishes for more, too.  He is forced to accept his wife's suicide, as are we, what she deemed an unavoidable sacrifice.	2004-07-27
US	38780927	R1YZ5GA1N8XW34	0804115613	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Southern Fried Delight	This is delightful fare. Flagg succeeds wonderfully in giving life to a small southern town and the people who inhabit it. Idgie is a fine creation, as ornery and as endearing as Huck Finn, and equally untainted by the opinions of others.  <br />  <br /> As other reviewers have noted, following the sequence of events can be tricky, even with the dated chapters that serve as markers. Still, the inventiveness of anecdote, 3rd person narration, and newspaper stories gives greater understanding to our view of this time and place. <br />  <br /> I read the book after seeing the movie (VHS version) and then traveling to Juliette, Georgia, where the movie was filmed. The combination offered an enriching and engaging experience that I wish others could share. The story goes that &quot;they&quot; searched and searched to find a southern town close to Flagg's Whistle Stop ... and they triumphed when they chanced upon Juliette. While it is probably smaller than Flagg's conception, overall it works, especially the cafe. <br />  <br /> What order you choose shouldn't matter. The movie faithfully renders the book, often using the exact words in dialogue. Flagg's ear is that good. Some may find it easier to follow the storyline of the book after seeing the movie. Whatever your choice, don't miss the tasty delights this book and movie deliver. They're wonderful. Flagg deserves the notoriety this book has granted her. She's a welcome storyteller. Her comic touch is sheer genius at times, and Igie's and Ruth's love for one another is heartwarming.	2004-07-23
US	38780927	R31FFREKVDPX49	0743477316	751849605	Oyster Blues: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Riotous Romp	Reading a book this funny, this slyly plotted, this salty and satiric, this madcap and quirky, this irreverent, this outrageously uplifting -- well, hell, if it ain't a crime, then it sure ought to be required reading for anyone suffering the blues, \\"the oyster blues,\\" that is (smile).    Since others have summarized so well here, I'll simply say I finished the book and then started reading it again.  It's that good and that much fun.  You'll relish that the a***oles get their due, that the guy gets the girl, that a treasure of a bay along the forgotten coast of Florida is preserved, that sometimes life works out just fine.    Give yourself a treat.  Read this book.  It goes down as easy as cotton candy with the taste of finely broiled shrimp.  Move over Dorsey, Leonard, and Hiaasen.  If you don't, McClelland will simply elbow his way in (which I think he's already done).	2004-07-21
US	38780927	R3FJ0Y5Y4WG19Z	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Intelligent Thriller	Dan Brown heaves everything at you in this book. It's a suspenseful page-turner that twists and turns as wildly as any roller-coaster. Wow! What a ride! How he pulls it off is incredible.           I believed all of it -- CERN, antimatter, the Illuminati's vendetta against the Catholic Church, the sluething ability of a Harvard symbologist, the bright but sensuous scientist (Vetra) who assists and falls in love with Langdon (the symbologist), super super-sonic air travel, the malicious plot of the Pope's assistant, the grandiose notions of The Vatican -- yes, I believed it all.          Besides the sheer excitement, the book illuminates and informs in so many ways that space here is simply insufficient. It just isn't possible to do justice in any summary of this book. It is well researched, planned, and plotted ... and well written.  Yes, some incidents stretch the believable, but isn't that what a work of fiction has the license to do?  As long as we can suspend our disbelief (and I was able to), we are in for quite a ride, watching Langdon unravel the clues that lead to the deadly antimatter, just in time.          As thrillers go, this is a fine achievement. Brown takes the genre to a new level, in my assessment. How can anyone do any better than this?	2004-07-21
US	38780927	R2ZXERZY8VYW32	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Timeless Gem	This book is a meditation on the possible dimensions of time. Truly mindboggling, it has the impact of a classic.       Lightman succeeds in writing simply and lyrically about the complexities of time: time as a dimension, time as a quality, time orchestrating order (entropy in reverse), a lifetime in a day, time as a flow, time repeated endlessly, time in reverse (a life lived backward) ... and so on.      What we have is an application of Einstein's theory of relativity, offered in tales that resonate like parables. We can see our lives and notions of time reflected in most of the tales. For example, in one world, the faster you move, the slower time passes. Sound familiar? In other words, the more you race through life -- getting and spending and experiencing -- the more you have, right? In another world, time passes slowly in youth, and quickly in old age. Sound familiar?      If you want a book with a conventional story -- interesting characters involved in believable incidents, with a conflict, a climax, and a tight resolution -- this is not one you'll enjoy. Instead, read a book by Connie May Fowler (Remembering Blue), Dan Brown (Angels & Demons or The Da Vinci Code), Pat Conroy (Beach Music), Barbara Kingsolver (Prodigal Summer) Charles Portis (Norwood), or Michael McClelland (Oyster Blues).      Also, if you delighted in this book's thoughtful somersaults, you may be disappointed in his book, &quot;The Diagnosis.&quot; Be careful. These two books are as disimilar as a star sapphire and a stone.      This book should be shelved beside Einstein's &quot;Theory of Relativity&quot; in all libraries and read concurrently in physics classes. It's an astonishing achievement, in clear thinking and clear writing. I loved it.	2004-07-21
US	38780927	R1DD1I5BZ9XHX2	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Inspirational reading	Albom gives us a glimpse of a heaven we'd love to embrace.  The messages Eddie receives remind readers that our lives have meaning beyond our understanding, always.  Alas, we all fall short of our dreams, seemingly.  This is not to say that our actions don't affect others in fortuitous and blessed ways.  The book is gracefully rendered and valuble reading, if for no other reason than to live faithfully and do the best we can, every moment, every day.  As others have noted, it is truly a feel-good book, and Lord knows, we all can use a dose of feeling good, every moment, every day.  Read the book.	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R2S1N9SLGHYK1G	0802139566	109385921	Fair Warning: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sophisticated romance	Of the three Butler books I've read, this is the weakest rendering.  The writing, as always, is artistic and nuanced.  The characters, as always, are full-blooded and dimensional.  What fails to measure up to Butler's talent is the story.  We read and expect more -- more resolution, more understanding, more growth.  Nonetheless, it bears the stamp of intelligence that we've come to expect from his work and is worth reading.	2004-07-20
US	38780927	RJU9M1V49B76S	0345439244	174658415	Remembering Blue: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Poignant storytelling	As a few reviewers have noted, the book gains momentum with each chapter.  Did Fowler plan that? or was it more a matter of the flow of the story grabbing her at about page 100?  One wonders. <br /> <br />Stay with this book.  It is a gem of a story, and it will prompt you to remember that we are meant to live passionately; we are meant to surrender to ourselves and our yearnings; and that we are meant to care about and for others. <br /> <br />The book gives us an experience that teems with life -- of the sea, of the island, of the forgotten coast along the Big Bend (Carrabelle, Eastpoint, Appalachicola), where most still struggle to make ends meet by fishing for oysters and shrimp. <br /> <br />You will fall in love with all of the characters, and you will fall in love with the setting.  This is fine writing and even finer storytelling.  Fowler is a treat. <br /> <br />	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R248CTW92EZI40	0802137989	362528559	A Good Scent from a Strange Mountain: Stories	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Stunning achievement	This is a work of art.  Read it and weep.  Read it and touch the soul of the Vietnamese who lost their country and gained their humanity.  Read it and savor language at its finest, writing that is poetic and powerful, spare and wispy.   <br /> <br />All of the stories are masterful.  Some are great ... stories that will offer more light and more meaning with every visit.  This is one of the best books of the Vietnam experience -- a literary gift.	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R2X43LBF356S5U	0802137822	631616955	Mr. Spaceman	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderfully artistic, intelligent entertainment	I loved this book. Desi is as engaging a &quot;character&quot; as I've encountered in years. He's been studying us for 30 years and is preparing for a grand appearance on New Year's Eve of the new millenium. His wise and quirky ruminations are by turn funny, poignant, and sad. He discerns the yearning that drives humans, but he doesn't quite understand it -- just as we don't. He has fallen in love with Edna, a downhome girl from Alabama who enjoys cooking and nurturing the folks who have been beamed up to the spacecraft. <br />  <br /> So we wonder: Is this a love story? A sci-fi tale? A comedy? A study of the mysteries of language, of culture, of spirituality?  <br />  <br /> However we classify it (if we even need to do so), I'd like to say that this work seems a more imaginative achievement than his Pulitzer-Prize-winning book (A Good Scent ...). What impresses me most about Butler's writing is his commitment to voice. He lives within his characters, granting them compassion and understanding. His works are literary entertainments, what any discriminating reader yearns to find.	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R3K32CM36JMFO2	0805053034	435712613	Father and Son	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Masterful and Gripping	Finally I have gotten around to reading Larry Brown. Goodness, goodness: What I've been missing! Father and Son will cause you to gasp and wince as you follow the wretched decisions Glen Davis makes (the main character). The trail of pain he leaves behind will shake you to the core. You love the character but hate the man. You want to scream at him as he scowls through one mistep after another. He is beyond the reach of reason, and his behavior gives new meaning to the words \\"dysfunction\\" and \\"aberration.\\"      He is evil and his journey is tragic. How Brown portrays it and makes us care is awe-inspiring: tone offers the incidents in understated, almost casual objectivity; characters emerge bold and beautiful in their sorrow; plot screams forward like a runaway train on a hardened track; descriptions are as sharp as a razor-slice, quick and incisive.       I agree with the book-jacket quotation that says, \\"The model is Faulkner, but his influence has been absorbed and transcended.\\" I raise a glass and toast Larry Brown, and soon I will read his other two books that are hailed so highly here: Joe and Fay (after bracing myself first by throwing down a shot or two).	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R2HF5BP04IWLY5	0375725504	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Disappointed	I agree with another reviewer who says this book started strong but then lost momentum.  I finished it to keep my word, having told someone I would read it and share what I think ... which is the following: there is no resolution to the conflict (it is left hanging, abandoned); characters are not fully developed; and the juxtaposiiton of Anytus's story is more irritating than illuminating.  <br />The story could have been rendered more effectively as a novella.  The theme, though compelling certainly in this information and computer age, becomes cloying by the end of the book.  We get it, Mr. Lightman.  Human health and personal interactions are more fragile, indeed, than man's creations to improve both.  They flourish while we founder.  <br />What we don't get is the engaging storyline, the simple &quot;what's-going-to-happen-next&quot; delight in reading a story that entertains as it instructs, and reassures as it reveals.  On this count, the novel fails committed readers who read on, faithfully, watching Bill Chalmers' mysterious condition deteriorate, undiagnosed.  Then the book ends.	2004-07-20
US	38780927	R2GU0RR28GD96D	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Wise and Beautiful	What an enriching book this is, informed by a compassion for all that lives.  Her writing is poetic and nuanced, like the subtle connections that give meaning to all life on planet Earth.  Her book pulses with this cohesive life-force.  Unlike other reviewers here, I was not bothered by any obtrusive ecologocial preaching.  The interconnectedness of all creation is the foundation for the story, speaking in as compelling a voice as Carson or Thoreau.  Each of the three storylines achieves a momentum not unlike the growth of any living being.  As we are all challenged to do in life, each character achieves increasing comfort with his/her frailties and learns to reach out and love -- and be available to be loved -- more easily.  I am grateful that Kingsolver writes.  I look forward to reading another of her creations.	2004-07-12
US	38780927	R37IZAQB9UI6Y7	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Grand Work of Art	I need to add a few words to the thousands that have been written in praise of this impressive novel.  One reviewer captured it well when s/he commented it's the journey that counts.  Indeed, that is the essence of life, journeying forth against obstacles and adversity.  And that's what this book delivers, a journey unlike any I have read in literature.  Oh, sure, the motif of the odyssey or quest is apparent as a literary device, but Frazier invests it with such intimate detail, such vivid description, that he refines the vehicle.  <br />There is an inexorably haunting quality to his rendering (which he also captures in his reading of the work, well worth the hearing), echoing the unspeakable horror of the civil battle that has so defined our American psyche, that still pulses with meaning today, favorably and not-so-favorably (hear the echoes of &quot;Yankee&quot; when in the South and one cannot mistake the resonance of that bloody division).<br />What a rich reading experience this book provides, requiring a diligence many readers cannot muster (I must confess to initial difficulty, more a reflection of me than the work, but I fixed it by listening to Fazier's reading on tape, which got me going and got me reading).  The force of his writing will literally blow you away, time and again ... a dazzling, dizzying display.<br />The writing demands that we slow down and savor the feeling of the time, the torment and loss of a ravaged nation ... of war-torn and wounded families ... of dreams dashed and destroyed.  To read this novel is to remember, once again, why we live: to follow yearnings, to overcome adversity, and to remain forever hopeful.	2002-06-25
US	38780927	R1OD9AJ7GL6K75	0553479008	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not Koontz's best	After trying to read this work and failing three times, I took a chance at listening to the audio version ... and it worked, though slowly.  Not until midway did the story grab me.  Then I found myself looking for reasons to run errrands to listen while driving.<br />Suffering from a rare and incurable disease (XP) and unable to expose himself to natural or artificial light, Christopher Snow (aka, Snowman) leads a nocturnal life: intriguing premise, perhaps ingenious.  Unfortunately, Koontz fails to develop Snowman as a complex, three-dimensional charagcter suffering from the disorder.<br />The story plays out one night in Moonlight Bay, on the California coast.  Encounters with mutant monkeys and intelligent dogs and cats -- as well as malicious residents who are \\"becoming\\" -- proliferate almost out of control.  Through it all, Christopher displays a resolve and toughness that have not been established.  With the help of his friend Bobby, who remains \\"cool\\" in all situations (too cool), they prevail.  Also, not yet 30 years of age, they just happen to be independently wealthy.  C'mon!<br />More challenging yet, I listened to the novel after finishing Stephen King's ON WRITING, a sound and entertaining memoir, in which King elaborates his disdain for adverbs (echoing Strunk & White).  Koontz, violates the fundamental \\"shamelessly.\\"  Adverbs rain on one's ears -- conspicuous, distracting, and irritating.  Koontz would do well to take time to revise and eliminate adverbs; his publishers will wait.<br />Read or listen to the book for an entertaining escape (though one redeeming and almost overriding aspect of the audio is Szarabajka's reading -- truly masterful. What a voice!)	2002-05-12
US	38780927	R27QVMPIFHDQ7I	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Uneven but engaging	I wondered when Grisham would try a story requiring greater subtlety than his legal thrillers.  This is it.  It's a delight to see him stretch, and the book delivers handsomely despite its unevenness in narrative pespective and credibility.  Often too wise and too knowing for his seven years of age, Luke Chandler is privvy to secrets that burden him, and in the process grows out of innocence in one cotton-picking season.  Mexicans and Hill People arrive in September of 1952 to help harvest the cotton, which has the makings of a bumper crop.  In each camp there is one tough customer, each committing a murder that Luke  witnesses.  The tension surrounding each murder keeps the story moving, in counterpoint to the languid life of cotton farming in sizzling heat.  The novel unfolds gracefully and lovingly.  It is clear that Grisham feels a nostalgic pride for these characters, who together transport him back to his youth.  Though the work falls short of its literary target, many authors have missed by a greater distance.  What we see is an author working faithfully at his craft, developing the skills that, in time, will lead to a worthy work of art.	2002-04-05
US	38780927	RLCBLVRJH5UQ6	0316803480	745099329	The Cliff Walk: A Memoir of a Job Lost and a Life Found	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Honest sharing	In this brutally honest reflection, Donald Snyder shares how he reels from a lost job as a successful English professor and finally finds his balance in a new life as an independent handyman.  He also recounts his battle with extended anger and depression as rejection letters mount from other colleges. Finally, he comes to terms with his overweening pride and arrogance, and his sense of entitlement to a prestigious career and comfortable life.  Financially and psychologically depleted, he takes a job as a contractor's helper, where he gradually reclaims himself and his humanity ... and he finds dignity in working with his hands.  Through all of this, his wife remains committed to him and their family -- four young children -- and finds work herself to hold the family together --until Don finds his way back, to them and himself.	2002-04-02
US	38780927	R3KOOHATQN7KQR	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Entertaining and useful advice	King's book is really three works for the price of one: a condensed autobiography, writing advice, and a reflection on being hit and almost killed by an inattentive driver.  I devoured the book, and read many passages to students in my college writing class.  King pays homage to the classic work on writing, The Elements of Style, the book that anyone who writes anything should have memorized, and the book that his deserves a spot beside.  I found King's work entertaining (read \\"funny\\") and engaging.  Yes, most serious readers and writers have heard most of his advice before, but King's approach is deeply personal and honest.  He shares why he almost abandoned The Stand, and how he solved the problem. He shares his discomfort with plotting a book, with adverbs, and with excessive symbolic or thematic effort -- his preferences, certainly.  He also shares sound fundamental advice with unbridled enthusiasm and energy.  If you care about writing, read this book.	2002-03-28
US	38780927	R1Z0ZHI9CLGKA1	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Strong characterization, spare writing	Having wanted to read Plainsong for some time, I began it with high expectation (another reviwer of Peace Like a River, which I gave 5 stars, suggested I get the \\"real goods\\" with Plainsong ... so I thought, \\"okay, time to read Plainsong\\").<br />This book's strength lies in characterization, with each chapter devoted to one or two of its characters: Guthrie, father of two mature and responsible young boys; Ella, his wife who cannot rise from bed (depression, we suspect, perhaps from a marriage gone dry); Ike and Bobby, the two sons; Victoria Roubideaux, a 17-year-old high school girl who finds herself prematurely pregnant to an unlikable young man from another town; the McPheron brothers, two kindly prairie farmers who know little about anything but farming, but whose fundamental wisdom will see them through anything life presents (as we see); Maggie Jones, a teacher like Guthrie at the high school in Holt who's tenderhearted and loving spirit provides a grounding to others, especially to Victoria and Guthrie.<br />This is the simple rendering of the book, the life and inter-connectedness of eight characters in a Colorado prairie town. Like the apparent simplicity of prairie life, the challenges and conflicts unfold simply, told in caring but dispassionate prose, somewhat like a story by Chekhov.<br />Maggie Jones's basic goodness holds the important relationships together, first taking Victoria in for a while (who had been told to leave home by an unforgiving mother -- true to plains thinking and religious eccentricity), and later asking that the McPheron brothers open their home to Victoria, as unlikely as it seems initially. (We, the reader, watch with relish as the brothers learn, haltingly, to give her the comfort, security and love she needs to come to a healthy delivery). Maggie also embraces Guthrie -- tenderly, teasingly, and lovingly -- admiting a long-standing interest and offering the comfort he needs after his ill wife leaves to live with her sister in Denver.<br />Otherwise, the book presents what it says, a \\"plain song\\" --plain and unadorned -- about the lives of small-town folk (insert \\"plain's\\" folk) -- simple lives, complex issues (as with people anywhere), who build meaning in the middle of nowhere. In a way, it's a Seinfeld rendering in a different setting, but as true to its characters and milieu as any episode of Seinfeld. Nothing much seems to happen to characters as eccentric and endearing as Seinfeld's -- except life in all its humanness and aberration.<br />So ... this is a fine book, and deserved to be a finalist for the National Book Award, no argument here. It has an enduring feel and pace and delivery. Is it a stronger performance than Peace Like a River? Not in my estimation. Is it more enduring than Peace.  Who knows?  We, readers everywhere, through the timeless stream of analysis and comparison, will determine that. Without question, both are compelling novels, though each comes to its strength by different styles.  Without belaboring my point, Peace engaged me more, as a reader and as a critic. My hope is this: a Pulitzer Prize or National Book Award for Peace Like a River.Denver. <br />Otherwise, the book presents what it says, a \\"plain song\\" --plain and unadorned -- about the lives of small-town folk (insert \\"plain's\\" folk) -- simple lives, complex issues (as with people anywhere), who build meaning in the middle of nowhere. In a way, it's a Seinfeld rendering in a different setting, but as true to its characters and milieu as any episode of Seinfeld. Nothing much seems to happen to characters as eccentric and endearing as Seinfeld's -- except life in all its humanness and aberration.<br />So ... this is a fine book, and deserved to be a finalist for the National Book Award, no argument here. It has an enduring feel and pace and delivery. Is it a stronger performance than Peace Like a River? Not in my estimation. Is it more enduring than Peace.  Who knows?  We, readers everywhere, through the timeless stream of analysis and comparison, will determine that. Without question, both are compelling novels, though each comes to its strength by different styles.  Without belaboring my point, Peace engaged me more, as a reader and as a critic. My hope is this: a Pulitzer Prize or National Book Award for Peace Like a River.	2002-03-09
US	38780927	R3JWB9KGW4OLMC	031216839X	519582614	February Light: A Love Letter to the Seasons During a Year of Cancer and Recovery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Choice of Life	I read this wonderfully written and deeply felt book a few years ago, after my mother succumbed to biliary cancer and long before I triumphed over my own cancer (prostate).  During my year of cancer and recovery, I often thought of Remoff's book -- a gem that created a resonance I still feel today -- of her resilience and love of life.  Familiar with the setting, Eagle's Mere (a quaint, old Victorian village set atop a picturesque mountain, frequented by folks of means throughout much of the 20th century), I'd say she had ample opportunity to commune with the seasons.  But the beauty of her love letter lies in its human light.  We see an engaging, luminous spirit that will not yield to the dark, nefarious work of cancer, a woman deeply connected to family, friends and community.  Her dog Chuckles, her running, her ruminations, her alternative healthcare approaches, her strong yet sensitive husband -- all give her reason to live.   This book should be mandatory reading for anyone whose life has been affected by cancer.  This book is life, fully lived, soulfully rendered, teeming with laughter and foolishness amid the fear and pain of facing one's inescapable mortality.	2002-02-11
US	38780927	R24KCASBDN7X2Q	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Mesmerizing Work	Leif Enger has crashed the literary gates, and he should be welcomed with wide embrace. His work succeeds in many ways, as fine fiction always does: characters who engage and grow; narrative reach that grabs the throat and won't let go until the last sentence is read (and then breaks your heart as it reassures everlasting love); thematic tension that insinuates the big qestions (such as the limits and boundaries of kinship and honor, faith and divine intervention, free will and fate); and of course a rollicking-good story, commanding absolute belief. And there are many passages -- so well written and so wise -- that leave you gasping in admiration.<br />In Reuben and Swede (narrator and sister), Enger has created characters who belong beside Holden Caulfield and Huck Finn and Owen Meany, they are that richly realized and that memorable.<br />Like Cold Mountain, which made a similar entrance, this work deserves an award or two. In contrast, however, Peace is comforting and amusing, fast-paced and unpredictable -- like hanging with good friends and telling stories about shared adventures. And, yes, as other reviewers have shared, it will rest on the shelf reserved for books I love and plan to read again and again. It's one of the best books I've read in some time.<br />Get it. Read it. Savor it.	2002-02-06
