US	38855113	R3VIF81COY63EX	0394569296	927692482	Now Face to Face	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Everything Changes, and Nothing Does	Reading Now Face to Face was like being among old friends again. I just loved this book. I thought that it was the perfect continuation to Through a Glass Darkly. This story picks up not long after TAGD. It follows Barbara and her family as we watch them grow and change through love and loss. I enjoyed every moment and cannot believe the talent of Koen. Her writing is gorgeous and the emotion she conveys is just unbelievable. I have found that while reading these two books of hers that you can never really feel safe. There are so many deaths and even prominent characters arent left untouched. I hated the deaths, but at the same time, since things were not always worked out neatly, it made the story feel more realistic IMO. My main regret with Now Face to Face was Tony. I wanted so much for things to go in another direction with him. As for Slane, I liked him, but I felt like we werent given the chance to know him well enough. I felt like his and Barbaras love just sort of materialized out of thin air. This made it hard to believe their devotion at times, but still...Im not disappointed. These two books were just amazing reads and I would recommend them to anyone in a flash.	2005-08-02
US	38855113	R26O2SMFDJ74G7	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I Vant to Suck Your Blood	Salems Lot was a well written, fleshy read. This is actually my first Steven King. I have never really felt compelled to read him, but I love Vampire stories, so I thought Id give this one a shot. Lots of other reviewers have gone into plot, so Ill skip that. Salems Lot had moments of creepiness and I had no problem getting through it, but I have to say the vampire element disappointed me here..I didnt feel like it was played out enough. I wanted to know the vampires better. I felt like there was more discussing the vampire and trying to figure him out rather than actually meeting up with him. That was my biggest complaint in this story. Still, it WAS a great read and it kept me hooked from start to finish. Not quite a keeper for me, but still worth while.	2005-07-29
US	38855113	R1VCIV5DUZWSPS	0151010749	382155161	The Ghost Writer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Totally freaked me out	The Ghost Writer was a book I bought on impulse. I was expecting a horror, but when I opened it and began reading, it sort of felt like straight fiction with a thread of romance weaved in. It was sweet and a little mysterious. Let me tell you now that even though it started in a way I wasnt expecting...I was hooked immmediately. So, I kept reading and reading and reading feeling sure that all around me the world ceased to exist. All I could focus on was this story! It really is THAT good. Anyways, so Im reading and Im noticing that the further along I get, the creepier it is becoming..theres this faint undertone of badness that sort of taints each chapter, but Im just not sure what the heck it is yet..so on I go...chapter after chapter Im feeling more and more uneasy as more and more comes to light...Im telling you now that the last quarter of this book had me completely enthralled. The last chapter scared and confused me completely. I finished the book and felt unsettled..not satisfied..what the heck happened exactly? I have no idea. Im lost as to who the other person in that house was(those who have read it will know who I mean..I dont want to spoil it!!) I have gone back and skimmed and skimmed and reread trying to figure it all out, but I just cant seem to get it. Even with such an odd ending, I cant rate this at any less than 5 stars... it was completely brilliant. The story has been on my mind since I finished. If anyone out there wants to discuss this book, please email me because Im dying of curiosity. Id love another persons take on it. Im actually thinking of writing the author. Anyways, all of this aside, if you havent yet read The Ghost Writer, I highly recommend it. It is totally original, and totally hooked me. What a keeper.	2005-07-27
US	38855113	R2SWRZMCGKRAYW	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spencer Grant is one sexy guy....	Dark Rivers of the Heart is my latest venture into the totally intriguing world of Dean Koontz. Im tellng you, this author has hooked me like few can. In DROTH, we are introduced to a man named Spencer. Spencer is a real loner, and due to some tragic circumstances in his past, he likes to keep it that way...but hes lonely, and he wants a chance at a real life. So when he meets up with a woman named valerie, a woman who really looks at him and seems to listen, he is head over heels in love within moments. Shortly after meeting Valerie, she goes missing....Spencer is frantic when he realizes that the woman is in major trouble and he knows that to involve himself will only bring the chaos in his direction, but he cant help himself...he decides the risk is worth it and jumps head first into more trouble than he could have ever imagined. <br /> <br />Dark Rivers of the Heart was without a doubt an entertaining read. Spencer was so unbelievably clever that I fell for him immmediately. I loved his sensitivity as well, but the mans mind is what really made me adore him...just brilliant. My problems with this book had a lot to do with the female lead. I had trouble connecting with her. I wanted her to be more appreciative of Spencer than I thought she was. I also felt that sometimes the story got a little muddled with too much tech talk. But for the most part it was, as always in DK world, a totally entertaining ride.	2005-07-27
US	38855113	R25OMRTTUZQAB8	0425136981	121362210	Shadowfires	Books	4	59	61	N	N	Rayeshuuuulllllll....	Moments after a heated arguement in the street with her ex husband, Rachael watches in horror as he is brought down by a dump truck. Just an hour ago, they were sitting in his lawyers office finalizing their divorce, and now he is dead, killed before her very eyes. Though Rachael feels horrified by his death, she feels no grief...sorrow, but no sense of loss. Eric, her ex, was lost to her a long time ago. Feeling a sense of relief, but at the same time a queer unease, Rachael heads home to unwind after her wild day. But the day isnt over...she receives a phone call from the morgue...Erics body has gone missing. Soon events spiral out of control and Rachael is on the run from a stalker...a stalker that looks remarkably like her dead Ex husband. <br /> <br />Shadowfires was, at first, hard for me to get into...the story really stretched the limits of my imagination, but eventually, the tension wound so tight and the story and its characters got so interesting, I was willing to let go and just enjoy the ride. All in all, I really enjoyed this book. I love DK's characters. I think he does an amazing job with his villains...they are so 3 dimensional. Even as Im hating them, Koontz allows you in deep to see a softer side that makes them seem so human. I hated Eric, he was a sick twisted pig, but at the same time, there was a part of me that felt sorry for him as DK revealed more and more about his past and his motivations. Truly, Koontz is brilliant.	2005-07-21
US	38855113	R2H38567575IV3	0843949163	214085109	In the Dark	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Kissed you here, kissed you there, kissed you almost everywhere...	In the Dark was my first book by Laymon and Im feeling a little conflicted. It tells the story of Jane. Jane is a librarian. One night at work, she comes a cross an envelope with her name on it. It leads her on a sort of scavenger hunt. Within every envelope is some money and a note asking her to complete a specific task. With every task that she completes, the money doubles -  but the tasks become more and more bizarre and terrifying.     The idea of this book was so intriguing, I just had to give it a try. And Ill be honest, the hook had me caught all the way till the end because I just had to see where the book was going to go. The main problem with In the Dark, for me, was that I found Jane not only unlikeable, but COMPLETELY unbelievable. She behaved like a Too Stupid To Live heroine...bumbling around, making annoying comments that were supposed to be funny...but the thing that rang most false I thought were the lengths that she went to for money. I just kept thinking...yeah right! Oh come on! NEVER in a million years would a little money motivate someone to do these things! I also found it unbelievable how accepting she was of her situation... and the fact that she wore culottes just about sent me off the deep end and sealed the deal for me -I am definitely not a fan of Janes. Still, like I said, the book hooked me and was set at a good pace. Over all, weird and interesting, but flawed.	2005-07-21
US	38855113	R1ZOU3NYKACL9J	0425195481	448060127	The Bad Place	Books	4	39	41	N	N	Fireflies in a Windstorm....	Frank Pollard is completely terrified and perplexed upon waking in the middle of an alleyway. He has no idea why he is there or who he is. He remembers his name, but hasnt a clue as to how old he is, where he lives, what he does for work...all he knows is that something or someone is after him for reasons he cant guess...he has to run or die - there is no other choice. While on the run, hopping from one motel to the next, Franks fears begin to escalate as upon waking he is met with one new shock after another. One morning he wakes covered in blood, another morning he is fully clothed and covered in sand after having crawled into bed clean and in his pajamas - and he has absolutely no memory of what events took place. Frank needs help, but because he cant remember who he is, he has no idea who his friends are; whom can he trust? Thats where Bobby and Julie Dakota come in. Frank hires the team of Private Investigators to watch him, follow his every move, monitor him as he sleeps...only NO ONE expected what is ultimately revealed.    The Bad Place was a good, entertaining read. It wasnt a favorite of mine, but still worth it. I am finding that any Koontz book is pretty much a safe bet. The man can write. His characters are so well drawn and his mind comes up with wild and unpredictable turns. I just love his mind. If you have never read Koontz before, I highly recommmend him.	2005-07-20
US	38855113	R1FZ9W5E88EJP7	1402200447	409225574	Through a Glass Darkly: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wildly Romantic, Emotionally Exhausting, Unbearably Brilliant	This is the story of Barbara...a young girl right on the cusp of womanhood during the early 1700s. Barabara has all of her young life been head over heels for Roger Montgeoffry. When Barbara finds that a marriage is possibly being arranged between her and Roger, a man she thought only to get close to in her dreams...she is ecstatic and determined to do anything and everything in her power to see that the marriage takes place. Oh, but there is sooo much more to this book!! It covers years...it spans across both England and Paris and is peppered with an amazing array of characters...characters I both loved and wanted to strangle. Through a Glass Darkly had so many ups and downs..it was happy, and romantic, and exciting, and so so sad. Rarely do books make me cry, but this one not only had me in tears, it had me in a dazed fog for several hours after finishing...when a book moves me like that, even after Im done reading..I know it was a good one. I have only one real complaint with this book and that was that I wanted more from the ending...but overall, I loved this story so much I couldnt possibly rate it at lower than 5 stars. It swept me along and I happily devoured all 700 some pages...dont let the size of this book intimidate you...it is so entertaining you wont even notice its length. Infact, youll want more!...I highly recommend reading Through a Glass darkly.... A definite keeper.	2005-07-16
US	38855113	R3JPJLQPVL096Q	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent...(4 1/2 stars)	I am a huge fan of vampire stories and I also love historical fiction, so I didnt hesitate a second to buy The Historian. The book was creepy and so interesting, I was glued to it and finished it in a few sittings. The history and detail had me riveted and the characters and the all around story were just brilliant. I thought the book was going to be a soild 5 star read, but the wrap up struck me as being slightly anticlimactic..so I dropped half a star...still The Historian was an amazing read. I would highly recommend it.	2005-07-05
US	38855113	R1NULD66S1KOT3	0843953640	440589384	Fiend	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Entertaining...(3 1/2 stars)	Fiend is the 3rd installment in JJ's vamp series. I have to say out of them all, VOTB was my fave, but Fiend, IMHO, was waaay better then Wounds. Fiend focused on Orfeo...his human life, his creation and life as a vampire, and his relationship with Daniel. The book held my interest, but I have to say that some of it put me off a little...it was at times just too graphic for me. Still, Fiend was a good read and I will definitely keep a look out for more of this authors work.	2005-07-04
US	38855113	R1QS7171BE5NNJ	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Choice is Yours...	Velocity was a wild ride. Poor Billy, all hes trying to do is mind his own business....one evening after work his whole world is turned upside down when he discovers a note on his windshield. It gives him 2 choices and 2 consequences... Dont go to the police with the note and a lovely blonde school teacher will die. Do go to the police and a little old woman who is deeply involved in charity work will see her last day. Its quite a letter and quite a choice and it is only the beginning. Velocity starts wild and just goes and goes. This book is literally good till the last drop. DK is quickly becoming a fave author of mine. I have yet to be disappointed...buy Velocity, its sure to hook you.	2005-07-04
US	38855113	R2VUNCEOVRXULR	0553582925	199284738	Tick Tock	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Tofu Boy and his Deliverance... (3 1/2 stars)	Tommy Phans life is looking up. His series of detective novels are selling so successfully, that he is finally able to quit his day job to write full time. To reward himself, he buys a sparkly new Corvette...things couldnt be better. Upon arriving home, however, things begin to take a bizarre turn. His doorbell rings and Tommy answers it, but theres no one there. On his sidewalk is a little sand filled cloth doll with stitches for eyes and a mouth. A little note is pinned to its hand. Having no idea who could have left it, Tommy decides to bring it into the house to look it over. What a mistake...all hell breaks loose from here, and a wild night ensues.     Ticktock was entertaining enough, but it was absolutely nothing at all what I expected. I was expecting a horror, but it read more like a comedy...a campy one. I did laugh out loud at times and I got through the story fast, but it failed to grab me like the other DK books Ive read. I appreciate that Koontz went in a different direction to shake things up a bit, but Im still more partial to his other books Ive read so far. Still, it was a fun read.	2005-06-24
US	38855113	R1UQUXHSYP973G	0425196992	532012809	Shakespeare's Trollop (Lily Bard, Book 4)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Its Killing Time in Shakespeare Again...(3 1 /2 stars)	Poor Deedra Dean is Shakespeares latest victim in this 4th Lily Bard. And who better to find the body than Miss Lily herself?  <br />Shakespeares Trollop was an entertaining read, but compared to the previous books in this series,I thought ST was a little predictable and not as gripping, but it did have some rather juicy moments such as a riveting little tidbit involving Bobo. I just love Bobo. I know hes just a college boy ,but wowee what a cutie. Anyways, back to the story...a quick enjoyable read, but nothing that got me wild. I of course plan on finishing the series, but for now, I think Im going to take a break from Shakespeare.	2005-06-24
US	38855113	R1US9ZYCH0X7XN	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Chyna Shepard Untouched and Alive	Wowee, what a book. Intensity was literally INTENSE all the way through. There were about 5 moments of peace in the beginning of the book as the backdrop was set and then bam. Forget about relaxing while you read, forget about setting this book aside. I devoured this book in a sitting it drove me so wild. I swear not a lull anywhere for over 400 pages -it just goes and goes and goes. So heres the story...Chyna is off for a long weekend to stay with her best friend at her friends parents house. After a little dinner and conversation, everyone heads to bed. All except Chyna...she just cant sleep. Good thing because a little after midnight, all hell breaks loose as a killer sneaks in and destroys everything in his path...all except Chyna who hides through the ordeal, only to follow the psychopath when she sees him leave with her best friend. The story that follows is nothing less than nail bitting suspense. Koontz has amazing pacing going on here, a totally intriguing story and such well fleshed out characters...his villians always are scene stealers IMHO. I honestly cant say enough about this book...buy it buy it buy it!!!	2005-06-22
US	38855113	RHNLWK3GAD9TR	0843949988	151877050	Wounds	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Blah	This book was little more than annoying. I was so excited to read Wounds. I picked it up the second I shut Voice of the Blood. Wow...what a disappointment. I couldnt wait to get more of Daniel after meeting him in VOTB. The book really seemed like it might be excitng, but then Sybil comes along and the entire thing just falls flat on its face. What a pig she was. Every scene she was in I couldnt decide who I wanted to slap more...Daniel for putting up with her, or Sybil just for being there...ugh. Still, I cant stop here. I will for sure read Fiend and hope for the best...I only pray that the next book doesnt end so ridiculously.	2005-06-19
US	38855113	R2CXQTS59VEMB5	0843948302	995246562	Voice of the Blood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I cant get enough	Great book. I have read so many vamp stories. Voice of the Blood was refreshingly different. The books pacing was perfect and its characters well drawn. I did drop a star because some if it was just a little much and put me off a bit, but as a whole it was an excellent read...for any vampire book lover, Id recommend it in a flash.	2005-06-19
US	38855113	R1RSWYYWJ8HDBP	0312992335	372003866	He Loves Lucy	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Yummy (3 1/2 stars)	He Loves Lucy is a real cutie pie of a story. It tells the tale of Lucy and Theo. Lucy is overweight and sick of it, so she takes up a bet to lose 100 lbs in one year. She will be aided by a trainer to help her with her eating and exercise. If Lucy succeeds, both she and her trainer will receive one thousand dollars for every pound lost. The award will be paid out by the exclusive gym that employs her trainer in exchange for massive publicity to make the gyms bank account even beefier. <br />Lucy is mortified, but willing...especially when she sets eyes on her new trainer...sexy as can be Theo Redmond. <br /> <br />He Loves Lucy was adorable. It began as a solid 5 star read, but eventually losts its way and dropped to a high 3, but still...Id recommend it. It was frothy and fun, fluffy reading.	2005-06-19
US	38855113	R2V2EATCIXLXNG	0440234999	966877476	Shakespeare's Christmas (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Ho ho ho...	In this 3rd installment into Miss Lily Bards life, we are treated to a trip back to Lilys hometown. Varena, Lilys sister, is getting married and Lily is to be her maid of honor. While away, Lily gets herself involved in yet more trouble when she stumbles across two bodies in a doctors office.  <br />Shakespeares Christmas didnt disappoint. There was murder, mystery, humor...and Jack. Oh how Im loving Jack. <br />This is another great addition to the series. Read it.	2005-06-05
US	38855113	R21KAOL560VLVN	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	4	0	0	N	N	My first -but definitely not my last- Koontz..(4 1/2 stars)	Martie Rhodes leads a normal life. She has a wonderful husband, a nice home, steady work, and a long time best friend. Lately though, Marties best friend, Susan, isnt doing so well. For the past 16 months, Susan has been afflicted with agoraphobia and is terrfied to leave her house. To help Susan get better, Martie accompanies her to her twice weekly therapy sessions. Martie is worried for her friend, but soon she finds the focus of her fears has shifted as she herself begins to experience odd and terrifying anxiety attacks...shes afraid shes going insane. As time passes, Marties fears intensify as she realizes that those closest to her are also being plagued by odd lapses of time and psychologial problems...Martie cant help but think its all more than a coincidence.<br /><br />False memory was a fantastic read. This was my first by Koontz and I admired his style. Some scenes were written in a parallel fashion that so upped the tension level,I was ready to scream. It amazes me that scenes of action in a book can be so wildly exciting. Koontz has a definite flair for characterization as well. I found the villian in this book to be so consistant and twisted and well written...every scene this character was in, they stole the show IMHO. This is a GREAT read. Buy it.	2005-06-03
US	38855113	R9DPXX2I8K91L	0451209540	450762437	The Policy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ralph Harrington, Ralph Harrington, Ralph Harrington...	All Hunt wants in life right now is a fresh start. His divorce is once and for all final and the idea of leaving California and returning to Arizona where he grew up seems wildly appealing. With no real ties left In California, Hunt decides moving to Tucson is just the thing he needs to shake things up a bit. Once he gets there however, things are a bit more \\"exciting\\" than he'd imagined. At first, the move goes smoothly. He finds a place to live, reconnects with old friends, meets a new woman... but little by little the bizarre begins to creep into his life in ways that he never imagined....and all of it begins with a phone call to his insurance company and a personal visit from his very own agent.    The Policy was my very first taste of Bentley Little and I absolutely loved it. I had no idea where the book would go and I was so glued to it turning page after page just dying to see what in the heck would befall these poor people next. I thought this story was fantastically entertaining and would recommend it in a flash.	2005-05-31
US	38855113	R3KKED0LMYF0QG	0440613523	176538816	Shakespeare's Champion (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Shakespeare at its best...	Its a day like any other. Lily Bard wakes and heads to Body Time to get in her daily workout, but as a favor to her friend Marshall(who is sick with the flu)Lily arrives early with the Gyms key to open for the day....when she walks in she is shocked to find a dead man. The 3rd dead man in Shakespeare in as many months....who was stalking the people of Shakespeare??      Coming to the conclusion of this mytery was wild fun and filled with twists and turns all over the place..not to mention more of your fave characters and a steamy hot new one :o)   I liked this installment even better than the first and I intend to devour the 3rd the moment it hits my mailbox. Charlaine Harris can write. Her dialogue flows fresh and natural and she has a real knack for mixing the serious and the scandalous with the fun and the flirty. I just adore her work. If you have not yet read this series, I wholeheartedly recommend it. It is soooo entertaining!	2005-05-26
US	38855113	R2LUMMSRAUFQNR	0380790963	597252567	The Promise	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good, but not what I wanted it to be.	The Promise is a book that I wasnt expecting. I read its companion book \\"The Passion\\" A while ago and it was not at all what I thought it would be, so I guess I shouldnt have been surprised that Donna Boyd tricked me again...her stories are never predictable. The woman can defintely write. Her style and imagination are brilliant. Going into this book, I expected one thing but, what I got was something all together different. I read the back of the jacket and I loved the description and really wanted a relationship to form between Nicholas and Hannah...I was somewhat disappointed when the book went in an entirely different direction. The Promise is written with two separate stories that sort of parallel each other. I did enjoy reading The Promise, but I felt like it left me unsatisfied. A happy ending is not what you can expect from Boyd..I should have learned that after reading The Passion. Still, this was an interesting read. Im glad to have read it and will definitely keep my eyes peeled for more of this authors work.	2005-05-26
US	38855113	R2QOVUI2L07RH4	0440224187	298946694	Shakespeare's Landlord (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	So thrilled to have found another Harris series!!!	While out for a walk late one night, Lily Bard sees something she is sure she shouldnt be seeing. Lily has quite a past and wants no attention drawn to her, so when the police begin an investigation to solve the crime that she partially witnessed, instead of immediately stepping forward with the information she has, Lily backs off and keeps quiet...but that doesnt mean that she intends to do nothing about it... she slinks around and performs her own investigation, and what she finds along the way isnt all bad. <br /> <br />Shakespeares Landlord is my first Harris book outside of her wildly entertaining Sookie Stackhouse series. I am SO EXCITED to have found another great group of books. I have already ordered the entire series -  now I just have to wait impatiently for them to be delivered :o( Whether or not you have read Harris before, I would recommend this book, but if you are fan of her Vamp stories, then Id definitely say give Lily Bard a try. I have only read this first installment so far, but wow was it a page turner.	2005-05-24
US	38855113	R19ESAVJG6W96M	0441012795	142764139	Dead as a Doornail (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Aching for Eric...	Sookie and the gang are back at it in Charlaine Harris's newest book \\"Dead as a Doornail\\". The story moved at a fast clip and I was able to finish this book in one exciting sitting. It oozed with suppressed sexual tension - there were hot supernatural men at the turn of every page..... but, I didnt rate Dead as a Doornail a five for two reasons... <br /> <br />1. The book felt slightly like a filler...it had a transitional quality to it, like it was moving you along to get you ready for the next installment(which if its half as excitng as the end of this book suggests then wow am I in for a looong wait!) <br /> <br />2. And really, this is my main reason for not rating the book a million stars...ERIC. Eric, Eric, Eric. I wanted MORE of him! There was definitey not enough Eric in this book to satisfy me. Truly, I have no idea how Sookie is able to control herself. The man makes ME insane and he isnt even real! <br /> <br />I just am so anxious to read the next book and I pray that I dont have to wait forever for it. I love Vamp books and this series is my fave so far. I think Harris is far superior to LKH. LKH ,IMHO has gone way overboard lately, but Harris seems to find just the right balance of sex, action, and great characterization...Im just so happy to have found her.	2005-05-18
US	38855113	R358BUITVP53IV	0380786451	974979200	Sleeping Beauty	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I Have Found My Way Home...	While sitting in a dentists waiting room - crying over a toothache, feeling sorry for herself and sulking over her upcoming birthday(her 37th) Coco Wild unexpectedly meets a young knight... Sir James Stoker.  James...charming...confident...young, so young!(just 29) He shows a delightful interest in her, but Coco is guarded as always. She - better than most - knows men. Once this idealistic, blindingly handsome knight finds out the truth about her, Coco is sure the adoring light in his eyes will fade...it always does. Yet, no matter how crudley Coco chooses to reveal her secrets to him, she cant seem to dissuade James from seeking her out. And try as she might, Coco cant seem to keep herself from reacting to James - she likes him. And so, rattling with nerves and a kind of dizzying glee, Coco Wild lets go and gives in to James Stoker - and oh! What a ride...    \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" was a great read. The tension level that Judith Ivory created between Coco and James was so high it was a thrill to watch and wait for them to finally unravel. I loved the chracters in this book. Coco was extremely refreshing. She was older than James, strong, independant, and wordly..yet still soft. James...OMG...he was so shining and sweet and genuine. Once again, the words Judith Ivory had a man uttering left me speechless. James is a character I will not soon forget. I loved the way something so simple as the yards and yards of fabric that made up Cocos bustles simply undid him...how the sight of her across from him at the dinner table stripped his mind of any rational thought...    \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" without a doubt, began as a 5 star read. My reason for dropping a star was that it, unfortunately, lost its focus about 3/4 of the way through and the ending was a little too neat. Still, I did love this book and the scene where James finally comes out and declares himself was, though a little hard to believe, soooo adorable. \\"Sleeping beauty\\" is, in typical Judith Ivory fashion...a real keeper. Read it.	2005-01-09
US	38855113	R53K5TVU7SYHZ	0380786443	774233488	Beast (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Lulu and her Pasha...( 4 1/2 stars)	Louise Vandermeer is beautiful. Beautiful and bored with it. Bored with her beauty, bored with her life...Until her well-meaning parents put her on a ship bound for France where she will meet the man that she has been promised to - Charles d'Harcourt. Louise has never even seen Charles - she doesnt want to. She has absolutely no interest in the arranged marriage, but has given into her parents wishes...still, Louise cant help but be intrigued when she meets a mysterious man aboard the ship. A man that she meets only in the dark. Louise is swept away by him as he becomes her first lover, though he never permits her to look upon his face. For Louise, who has always used her beauty as a crutch, this time in the dark is a real awakening...she feels she can finally be herself and she falls hard for her mystery man. <br /> <br />Charles d'Harcourt never intended to lie. But when he stumbles upon his intended bride and gets a good look at her without her knowledge and overhears her less than complimentary opinion of him - without having met him - well, he devises a plan to teach the young girl a lesson. He will trick her...Louise has no idea that Charles is on the very same ship...so, he approaches her in the dark. His plan is to seduce her and reveal himself only once he is sure that she has fallen for him and expose her true shallow nature. But as Charles spends more time with Louise and she opens up to him, he finds himself the butt of his own joke...he has fallen in love with his own fiance. <br /> <br />\\"Beast\\" was a GREAT book. Yet again, Ivory is brilliant. Book after book, I am seeing a pattern...her heroes are UNBELIEVABLE. I love EVERY one of them! Charles was no exception. He had such a fantastic mixture of confidence and insecurity. He saw Louises beauty, but he really did love her for HER...he was so able to look beyond her face and I adored him for it. Louise was very flawed, very human...I loved her, I hated her. No other author can write a character like Ivory IMO. Im telling you, the woman is brilliant. <br /> <br />My only complaint with this book was that I found the beginning a little too slow and the ending a little too fast...because of this, I knocked off half a star, but everything in between was exquisite. If you have never read Judith Ivory, you should really give her a try. As for \\"Beast\\"...a keeper for sure.	2005-01-04
US	38855113	RTC24JT4KGL9X	0515117633	553300235	Dance	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Honesty and Acceptance...	After 3 soul-searching years abroad, Marie Du Gard returns home to France a new woman. While spending time in the country, Marie becomes reaquainted with an old \\"friend\\" - Sebastien de Saint Vallier. Marie had once had a great swooning crush on Sebastien, but she is different now, stronger, and she is relieved that all the feeling she can seem to conjure for him is a faint, almost sentimental annoyance...yet she is amused by him all the same...but as the summer passes and she and Sebastien spend more and more time together, Marie finds that maybe she isnt so over him afterall.    Sebastien - dear, sweet, uptight, brilliant Sebastien. He is knocked off of his feet when he comes face to face with Miss Marie Du Gard...A woman with whom he shared one wild rainy afternoon three years ago, but hasnt seen since.  And she has changed...oh has she changed. She is shocking, she is independant and unpredictable..and while Sebastien is at first appalled by her outlandish behavior, he is secretly excited by it as well. He decides that he must have her..he will do anything. He is simply MAD for her.     Dance was without a doubt an entertaining read. I enjoyed the relationship, the bantering, the FRIENDSHIP between Sebastien and Marie. I LOVED \\"watching\\" Marie shock Sebastien over and over...he definitely needed a little loosening up.    This book was also full of some delightful secondary characters and the storys setting and storyline were refreshingly different from many of the other romances I have read.   However, there was one thing that did niggle at me - Marie. I admired her strength and could even understand her behavior for the most part, but sometimes she was a little cruel to Sebastien and this bothered me. As for the writing, other than a slight lag about 3/4 of the way through, Dance was done in Pure Ivory style... It was lyrical and overflowing with fantastic descriptions...    I will say that I did enjoy Dances companion book, Bliss, slightly more... but while Dance just missed being a keeper for me, it is still a book that I would recommend.	2004-12-22
US	38855113	R2AZ8K1ECX0W01	0804119929	681195138	Foxfire Bride	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Disappointing...	Matthew Tanner has received a terrifying message - His father is being held for ransom in Denver. Matthew has the money that is being demanded by his fathers kidnappers, but he needs help. He has little time to make the long journey to Denver..he needs the best guide that money can buy.  When Matthew hears the best is a scout called Fox, he eagerly seeks him out. Matthew is completely shocked to find that Fox isnt a \\"he\\" at all...Fox is a woman. A woman like no other.    Fox was once the  one of the most sought after scouts, but an injury ended all of that...Until handsome Matthew Tanner shows up and pleads for her to help him to save his father. Fox takes one look at Tanner and the money he is willing to pay her and decides that this is one offer too good to refuse.     I have read many books by Maggie Osborne and have enjoyed her work time and time again. Unfortunately, Foxfire Bride didnt do much for me. I felt like the writing was very choppy. Scenes would leap from one paragraph to the next with no smooth transitions and POV switches were all over the place. It all felt rushed somehow.    My main complaint with this book was all about the characters - Fox especially. I dont expect every character to be a beauty. I dont have a problem with a heroine being average or even ugly, but Fox was just flat out unappealing. She was so manly, I just couldnt get past it.   As for Tanner...I just felt like he wasnt very memorable. He was very blah to me. I couldnt connect with him or Fox at all. This made it hard for me to really care about their story and its outcome.    As I said before, I have read Maggie Osborne in the past and enjoyed her. I will definitely give her a try again in the future, but as for Foxfire Bride, this is not a book that I would recommend.	2004-12-20
US	38855113	R26U7T6WT1IIOJ	0515115878	618372408	Bliss	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Ether Drinker and the Radish Eater (4 1/2 stars)	Bold, brave and charmingly naive, Hannah Van Evan longed for nothing more than to leave her old life behind and run away to Paris. She finds her chance in the form of Madame Amelia Besom. A grumpy, yet kind old woman, Mrs Besom needs a secretary/companion to accompany her to an old French chateau. There, the two women would work to recover any valuable art that could be sold at auction.<br /><br />Nardi de Saint Valliers life was a mess - it was no longer his own. A recovering ether-drinker, Nardi is under lock and key in an old cottage on the grounds of the family chateau. Here, he is watched by his older brother - Much depends on Nardis recovery. Too numb to stand up and fight for himself and his freedom, Nardi willingly(though broodingly)gives in to his familys manipulations....until the unexpected arrival of Hannah. When she comes into his life, Nardi is shocked and pleased to discover that she has brought feeling back to him...and once Nardi accepts Hannahs love and offers his in return, he is unwilling to give her up for anyone or anything - not even his own disapproving family.<br /><br />\\"Bliss\\" written under the name of Judy Cuevas is yet another winner by Judith Ivory. Again and again, I pick up one of her books thinking SURELY this one cant possibly be as good as the one before it and again and again, I find myself absolutley glued to the story.<br /><br />Nardi was sooo charming...Hannah was so bubbly. Yet,they were both imperfect. This is something that I love about Ivorys characters. They are never cardboard cut-outs. There are always things to make you uneasy, to make you dislike them even as you love them. These flaws make them seem SO REAL. I mean, who is perfect??<br /><br />My main complaint with \\"Bliss\\" was how quickly everything was wrapped up at its ending. I knocked off half a star because I wanted more...still, this is without a doubt one more keeper written by an author that I can for sure call my favorite - Judith Ivory.	2004-12-17
US	38855113	R3N74MLA5JSAW3	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Yearning For the Mud...	It started with a mouse and a great pair of legs - Thats all it took to change rat-catcher Mick Tremores life as he knew it.    Standing in the middle of a ravaged tea room, covered in soot, buttonless, and draped in little more than a tablecloth, Mick is offered the chance of a lifetime....A proposition - Pass as an English Gentleman at an exclusive ball that is scheduled to take place just six weeks in the future. If he succeeds, he will be awarded with 100 pounds for his trouble.  But for Mick, its really no trouble at all. Not when he gets a good look at the woman who has been challenged to transform him...Lady Edwina Bollash of the long legs and magnificent bum.    Edwinda takes one look at Mick and knows that he is trouble, but she just cant resist...she accepts the challenge.    \\"The Proposition\\" was unbelievably good. I swear I smiled the whole way through. The story was so much fun, the writing was gorgeous(Pure Ivory)The pacing -everything- was more than Id hoped for, but the main charm of this book was all about Mick. Oh how I wish he were real! He had such a twinkle to him...he was just sooo much FUN.    I cant say this book was wholly without flaws. The books \\"twist\\" was a little hard to believe. But really, who cares when the story and its characters were so endearing?? Any small flaws didnt bother me one whit.    All I can really say is.....\\"I loved this book, la la ...\\"	2004-12-10
US	38855113	R1O6GB4Z6D14AN	0373289391	827067765	Short Straw Bride (Harlequin Historical, 339)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A Disappointment...	Luke McLain was tired. Since the death of his parents, he and his younger brother had been running their familys ranch and trying to keep up with the house on their own. <br />Luke was getting older...he wanted things like a clean home and a warm meal...someone to come home to at the end of the day. He also wanted children.  <br /> <br />He needed a wife. <br /> <br />Eleanor Williams wanted to lay down some roots. All of her life she had moved from place to place, never really feeling wanted...never truly having a home to call her own. So, when the oh so handsome Luke McLain asks her -right out of the blue- to be his wife, Eleanor doesnt need time to think. Her answer is yes. <br />Both Eleanor and Luke are happy they are in agreement to marry  and feel that the situation will give them what they want, only the two of them wind up getting much more than they bargained for. <br /> <br />\\"Short Straw Bride\\" started well. The writing was plain, but paced perfectly. There were a few too many POV shifts that sprang from nowhere, but I enjoyed the story and the characters right from the beginning. However, once Luke and Eleanor married, the book went down hill. <br /> <br />Eleanor became annoying. I understood some of her frustrations, but her reaction to something that she overheard was a bit melodramatic. I can see how what she listened in on could have hurt her, but I felt that Lukes explantion should have been enough to patch up any wounded feelings. <br /> <br />As for Luke, I just plain didnt like him. He was sweet and charming at the books beginning, but as the story progressed, he just became a complete pig. <br /> <br />This is one of those books where I have absolutely no idea what the characters see in eachother. They are nice in the beginning, fight thru the middle, and poof! pledge eternal love out of nowhere... <br /> <br />\\"Short Straw Bride\\" is not a book that I would recommend. <br />	2004-12-09
US	38855113	R35ATXA3YZ02J	042516232X	947511379	Shadowheart	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Ooooohhhh Allegreto....	Allegreto Navona is a dangerous assassin who will stop at nothing to regain his rightful place...And suddenly, the perfect tool has been dropped into his lap in the form of Elena - The long-lost Monteverde princess. <br /> <br />Seeing the usefulness of an alliance between himself and the Lady, Allegreto schemes to bind her to him...Only he never expected that Elena would come to him willingly and that he would grow to love her in return. <br /> <br />Shadow Heart was SO GOOD. Yes, it had its flaws. I had a few problems with the plot and things that I felt were a bit unbelieveable..things that I wont go into here...Basically, I was so taken with this story and its characters and their relationship, that the flaws were ones that I happily overlooked. <br /> <br />I just adored Allegreto. I adored him. He did bad things and was not always the most likeable character, but he was so unsure and vulnerable when it came to his Elena... I just couldnt help myself..I have to say that he has become one of my favorites.  <br /> <br />I liked Elena as well, but mostly, I liked Elena and Allegreto together. There is one scene where Allegreto and Elena play this game of Morra together that was just so unbelievably endearing, I read passages of that chapter over and over. In fact, this book was full of small sweet moments that I found myself rereading as I went. <br /> <br />What can I say? Once again, Kinsale didnt disappoint..this is a book that has made its way firmly onto my keepers shelf.	2004-12-08
US	38855113	R2ULFDDHOYW7NQ	0425140040	667172080	For My Ladys Heart	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Pure Kinsale...(4 1/2 stars)	Sir Ruck, at the age of just seventeen, has lost his life as he once knew it... until a beautiful, but cold princess comes to his rescue on a whim. From that day forward, she is his sworn Lady - The Princess Melanthe. <br /> <br />After not seeing her for many years, by some weird twist of fate, Ruck finds himself in the position to return her favor. Melanthe is in danger and Ruck is determined to guard her with his life. <br /> <br />For My ladys Heart was such an emotional read. It started slowly, but once it got going, it was a hard book to set down. <br />Ruck and Melanthe were an interesting match. Ruck was so obliging and honorable and beautiful...Melanthe was so spirited and arrogant and sometimes childish. I loved Melanthe even when I hated her. The love between Ruck and Melanthe was bittersweet and I swear the whole book is worth reading just to see them exchange their vows of marriage. <br /> <br />Laura Kinsale continues to amaze me. For My Ladys Heart must truly have been a challenge to write. I cant get over how vividly Kinsale was able to capture the life and the speech of the times. <br /> <br />My only real complaint with this story was the final conflict and the choices that Melanthe made that led to it. I understand why she did what she did, but it still frustrated me to no end...All I can say is that with Melanthe as his wife, Ruck will have quite a handful...he must really love a challenge :o) <br /> <br />	2004-12-07
US	38855113	R1TIQ1ITV0DJBP	0380812975	523208550	Untie My Heart	Books	5	27	30	N	N	I Will Never Be Right Without You...(5+ stars)	Perfect, heartwrenching, exquisite...All of these words could be used to describe \\"Untie My Heart\\", but truly - None of them are enough. This book simply blew me away.    Stuart Aysgarth, a stranger to his country - England, has through the death of his father become the new Viscount Mount Villiars. While en route to his newly inherited home, he unknowingly offends Miss Emma Hotchkiss.    Emma Hotchkiss is not one to take offense lightly.  However,when she comes to Stuart, demanding justice for the wrong he has done her, Stuart learns that this is no ordinary woman...Emma has a colorful past and some surprising talents that Stuart realizes could be quite useful to him.   After some inventive persuasion, Emma reluctantly agrees to help Stuart with a personal problem he has been struggling with and the two of them cook up a clever scheme of revenge that forces them together and ends in the sweetest way possible.    \\"Untie My Heart\\" is without a doubt one of the most entertaining books I have ever gotten my hands on. I was hooked from page one.    Stuart - ooooooohhhh Stuart. The man was to die for with is funny little ways and his beautiful-sad eyes. He was so taken with Emma. And the things he said to her! O-M-G.    And Emma. She was hysterical. She was such a strong character. I adored her. I havent loved a couple as much as I loved Stuart and Emma in forever.    Judith Ivory..My God, can the woman ever write. The first kiss that Stuart and Emma shared was so wildly erotic I almost died right then and there. Truly - RUN out and get this book. There is not one thing I can find to complain about except that I wanted more more more...oh and wow...the ending...  A DEFINITE Keeper. Read it.	2004-12-01
US	38855113	R1C5ZD889ME92Z	0060528400	547145306	Duke of Sin (The Duke Trilogy)	Books	2	16	21	N	N	Woefully Bland...( 2 1/2 stars)	Vivian Rael-Lamont has a secret. A secret that she has kept carefully hidden...until the day she is threatened with exposure. Vivians life comes tumbling down around her when an unexpected visitor arrives on her doorstep with blackmail on his mind. His demand? Vivian must aquire a valuable manuscript that is in the possession of none other than William Raleigh - the infamous \\"Duke of Sin\\". If Vivian fails in this endeavor, her visitor will reveal what she so desperately wants to keep hidden.   Vivian, unable to stomach the idea of the unmasking of her past, but not willing to resort to thievery, boldy approaches the Duke with an offer - money for the manuscript.  However, William has other things on his mind. The document is not for sale...not for money. But, he would be willing to exchange it for Vivians \\"companionship\\"    First off, let me just say how I admire and enjoy Adele Ashworth. Her \\"Winter Garden\\" is one of my favorites, but \\"Duke of Sin\\" did not one thing for me. I couldnt connect with the characters at all and honestly, I didnt feel much of a connection between them either. Was there intimacy? Sure, but no CONNECTION, no SPARK..it was all just sort of...blah. I found myself truly not caring one way or another what became of the h/h.  Also, there were some inconsistencies that drove me insane. For example, Will is first described as having hazel eyes, but pages later they are brown. And Vivian has blue-grey eyes one minute that are mysteriously a \\"lovely hazel\\" only chapters later.These are minor complaints I realize, but they pulled me from the story again and again.  \\"Duke of Sin\\" is, sadly, not a book that I would recommend...but I would still love to read more that Adele Ashworth has to offer in the future.	2004-12-01
US	38855113	R3NZNC0I6BLQ0T	0380799367	180058670	Cherish	Books	2	7	10	N	N	A Woman to Cherish	Rebecca Morgan's life has been turned upside-down. While en route to Santa Fe where her family intends to relocate, they are viciously attacked. Rebecca, the sole survivor, witnesses the brutal murder of her loved ones and falls into a deep shock. <br /> <br />Ex gunslinger Race Spencer now lives a respectable life as a rancher, but he is lonely...until the day that he happens upon Rebecca. She is alone and terrifed, and though Race isnt quite sure what to do with her, he knows that he cant leave her alone to fend for herself. Race takes Rebecca into his care and a deep love blooms between the two of them. <br /> <br />I had such high hopes for this book. I love a story where the main players are traveling and have lots of time to be alone together, but \\"Cherish\\" was a challenge for me to finish. The pace was extremely slow, but my main complaint was with the characters - Rebecca especially. She was so annoying and grasping and dependant on Race, I honestly dont know how he didnt suffocate. I realize under the circumstances that Rebecca felt vulnerable, but her reactions and her all around personality as a whole just grated. I really couldnt stand her. <br />Race was a good guy, but boring. <br />Basically, I cant say that \\"Cherish\\" was lousy, but I wouldnt recommend it. <br />	2004-11-29
US	38855113	R3R61NQXRM6DQD	0060098538	654096350	Black Silk	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hot Thoughts Beget Hot Deeds...	After the death of her elderly husband, Lady Submit Channing-Downes is left with one last wifely obligation to fulfill. Her husband has let it be known through his will that she is to deliver a small, black box to its rightful owner - Graham Wessit, The Earl of Netham.  The delivery of this box ,however, is not so cut and dried as Submit had originally assumed. Upon meeting the notorious Lord Wessit, she becomes entangled deeply into his life and all of the troubles and relationships that comprise it. During this time as Submit and Graham grow closer, Submit makes many new and shocking discoveries about both her late husband and herself.  \\"Black Silk\\" was a dark, intelligently written story. Miss Ivory has an obvious love for her work and for words. She weaves this tale and all of its pieces together seamlessly.  I enjoyed the character of Submit, but the attraction here ,for me, was all about Graham. He was so full of passion, he was overflowing with it. His thoughts and his reactions regarding Submit made me wish that he was a real man and that I was the focus of his attentions. He was a truly riveting character and I loved him for his own personal oddities.  As much as I adored this book, I did have a few complaints.   First, I felt frustrated by how long we were made to wait for the intitial meeting between Submit and Graham. I see that it was necessary, but still, I found it annoying.   My main complaint with this story though was the way the first scene of intimacy was handled. I was disappointed by the fact that instead of divvying it out, Ivory sort of threw all of the relationships \\"firsts\\" into one somewhat anti-climactic scene.    \\"Black Silk\\" just missed being a keeper for me, but it was still an amazing book. The last pages alone would have made it worth reading. I would recommend it.	2004-11-08
US	38855113	R2DBR5AU4O9DB7	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	My Dear Miss March...	After returning home from war, Gabriel Fairchild is forever changed. He has been left blinded and badly scarred. Feeling depressed and unmanned, he shuts himself away into his country estate and refuses to see anyone. <br />Enter nurse Samantha Wickersham. <br />Samantha arrives at Fairchild Park determined to wrench Gabriel from his pool of self pity and to help him to learn to have a life again. Only,fear sets in as Gabriel steals Samanthas heart and his love threatens to uncover the secret that she has so painstakingly worked to hide. <br />\\"Yours Until Dawn\\" was an ok read, but ultimately I was left disappointed. The book was too easy to set down and the characters failed to come to life for me. I found many of the situations hard to believe and I felt that Samanthas \\"secret\\" was extremely obvious - I wasnt at all shocked when it was revealed. <br />This book wasnt awful...I did enjoy some of its secondary characters and I would love to see a story written about Gabriels friend Martin Worth. <br />All in all, not a bad read, but not a keeper.	2004-11-07
US	38855113	R28LC812TZAXCY	0380750082	167649323	The Hidden Heart (Avon Romance)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Gryphon Meridon and his champion...	After the death of her father in the wilds of the Amazon, Lady Tess Collier is given over to the protection of Gryph Meridon. Gryph accompanies Tess to London where she is to find a suitable husband...Only, Tess decides that there is no other man for her but Gryph himself. <br />\\"The Hidden Heart\\" began with such promise, but it lost its way. I had a few problems with this book. First of all, I didnt like that the development of the friendship between the h/h was told to us, not shown. I felt like it made it harder to really care about them as a couple because we didnt get to see them interacting as they grew so fond of one another. My other major complaint with this book that definitely knocked off a star was the conflict. So much of this book revolved around the dreaded Big Misunderstanding. This sort of conflict drives me insane because I dont find it believable..I mean, if the love of your life accused you of something that in reality was just a miscommunication..well, wouldnt you SAY something instead of just mournfully standing there staring at them? On top of these flaws, there were also several periods of long separations between the main players. I really hate that. However, even with all of its weaknesses, \\"The Hidden Heart\\" was still a Kinsale..which can only mean that it was beautifully written with unbelievably well developed characters. All in all, I cant say this has made my keepers list, but it was still a good read and one that I am glad I didnt pass up.	2004-10-29
US	38855113	RIWVRHDGAVB3N	0380801027	345543896	Absolute Trouble	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Julien Langlois can put on a show for me anyday...	Ex- cop, Dulcie Quinn, hasnt been doing much she she left the NOPD, so when her friend and policeman Bobby Halloran asks if she can keep an eye on a star witness, she reluctantly agrees. <br />Enter Julien Langlois...the dark, sexy stripper who has witnessed a murder. Once Julien and Dulcie get together...wow do the sparks ever fly.  <br />\\"Absolute Trouble\\" was a good solid read. The book was a little slow to start, but wow was it hot. I LOVED Julien...OMG was he to die for. His accent and his looks and his EVERYTHING just had me wild. I really REALLY loved him. Dulcie was a little more rough around the edges than I usually like, but she was strong and good and knew what she wanted and how to get it.  <br />\\"Absolute trouble\\" just missed being a keeper for me, but it was still an entertaining story that I would recommend.	2004-10-17
US	38855113	R26819V3ANMVIS	0061084611	604320437	American Dreamer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	He had the bluest eyes she'd ever seen... ( 3 1/2 stars)	Lark Leopold has led a sheltered life. She survived a terrible loss and has stayed close to her home and her parents ever since. But she is older now...a woman, and she feels it is time to go out on her own. Lark takes a job in Iowa, far from her home in California. She monitors peoples farms to make sure that the animals are well taken care of. It is during her time at work that she meets Nathan Senatra. Nathan is a loner and a man with a past and even though he terrifies her, Lark just cant seem to stay away. <br />\\"American Dreamer\\" was a decent read. The writing was a little plain and the characters were slightly saccharine, but it was still an entertaining story. This is not a book that I would call a keeper, but I am glad to have read it.	2004-10-17
US	38855113	R1QBJDZ93DI8GF	0373291868	759123436	Bluebonnet Bride	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Really really a good, sweet read...(4 1/2 stars)	Linnea Holmstrom is a good woman, but she has a past. When she was a young girl of sixteen, she made a mistake that tarnished her reputation. No one in her small town wants anything to do with her. Linnea spends her days sewing and taking care of her sweet elderly mother.  Seth Gatlin is a widower. He lost his wife and children to sickness. When Seth receives a letter from his sister asking for his assistance in taking care of her ranch, he jumps at the chance to be useful. Upon arriving at his sisters Montana home, Seth meets Linnea. A hesitant friendship forms that eventually blooms into love.  \\"Bluebonnet Bride\\" was such an endearing story. It was a gentle character driven tale that had me glued to it from page one. My only minor complaint that I have is that I could have done without a small obstacle that arose towards the storys ending. Still, this book is a definite keeper and one that I would recommend without hesitation.	2004-10-15
US	38855113	R2GB7VCE1DUYMU	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nicolas Craven Is Hot, Hot, Hot!!!! (4 1/2 stars)	Lady Merry Vance wants nothing more than her freedom, but as the daughter of a Duke, she finds herself constantly under pressure to marry. Finally, her parents have decided that enough is enough and they give her an ultimatum: Marry or lose that which is most precious to her. Merry, determined more than ever to remain unwed, devises a plan. She will ruin herself. Ruin herself by scandalously posing for a risque portrait-Something any decent well bred lady would NEVER do. Only Merry gets herself into more than she bargained for when she falls deep into a dark and seductive relationship with Nicolas Craven...the artist that is painting her portrait. <br />\\"Beyond Seduction\\" was an amazingly sexy, heady read. Nicolas was wildly attractive. I loved his kindness and his masculinity. He was fun...not just sexy, thats why I loved him so much.  <br />Merry was a great character as well. I enjoyed her bluntness and her joy in her awareness of herself as she and Nicolas grew more intimate. <br />\\"Beyond Seduction\\" was my first Emma Holly. She has a wonderfully smart writing style and her lovescenes are natural, mildly shocking, and drenched in emotion.  <br />My only quibble with this book was the ending. I wanted more...I wanted a declaration from Merry even though her feelings for Nic were clear. <br />All in all, this... for me, is a definite keeper and a book I would strongly recommend.	2004-10-12
US	38855113	R2ZCSTD43H4CDE	0451404750	292146731	Nightfall	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Falling For Mr. Wrong...	Cassidy Roarke has never been especially lucky in love, but Richard Tiernan is about the worst choice she could possibly make. He is devastatingly handsome, brilliant, and seductive beyond her wildest imaginations...best of all, he seems to be quite interested in her, but he is also loaded down with some offputting baggage-He has been convicted of killing his wife and his two young children. Cassidy is aware of his past, but she still cant seem to resist her attraction to him. Soon she is tangled in a web that Richard is spinning and Cassidy is shocked to discover the real truth behind his mysterious persona.  \\"Nightfall\\" could have been a good book, but I just was bored. I couldnt get into the characters at all. Cassidy was unappealing and I found it unbelievabe that a woman would fall so hard for a man who supposedly killed his family...I dont care how sexy he is.    As for Richard, he just flat out annoyed me. He was bossy and arrogant and turned me off from page one. I love Anne Stuart and that is the only reason for my awarding this story with two stars instead of one. This is not a book that I would recommend.	2004-10-11
US	38855113	R2KHJS8J3XFPZI	0060735414	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Quick and totally hilarious...	\\"Bloodsucking Fiends\\" is totally unlike anything I have ever read. I have quite a few vampire books, but this one was completely original. It tells the tale of a woman named Jody who is attacked one night and wakes later only to discover that she has been made into a vampire. Deciding that she needs a human servant to help her and take care of her during daylight, she gets together with a young melodramatic wanna-be writer named Tommy. Together the two of them are involved in some wildly hilarious situations.  I dont read many male authors, so this was new for me and quite a treat. Christopher Moores writing style is unbelievably clever and funny. I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it.	2004-10-06
US	38855113	R1G0TIATR03KSQ	1557739870	983068399	Sweet Lullaby (Homespun)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	A good read, but not a keeper...(3 1/2 stars)	The daughter of a prosperous rancher, Rebecca Anderson is shocked and upset when she finds herself pregnant and abandoned by the man she loved.<br /><br />Jake Burnett is a good man that has had a hard life... he has never felt wanted. While working for Rebeccas father, Jake falls in love with her, but only from afar. He is surprised and pleased when Rebeccas father proposes that Jake and Rebecca  marry so that her child might have a legal name.<br /><br />\\"Sweet Lullaby\\" was an okay read. I really really liked Jake, but I wasnt too impressed with Rebecca. I though she was extremely selfish and didnt deserve Jake. I also thought that the books style felt oddly amateurish for Lorraine Heath. Many of the scenes where very short and choppy and didnt flow well together, but overall it was a quick, decent read. This is not a book that I would consider a keeper, but it was worth reading.	2004-10-04
US	38855113	R2LA0UYWC67J7J	0425198243	55431338	Incubus Dreams (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	22	26	N	N	Sex, Sex, Blah, Blah, Blah, and More Sex...	\\"Incubus Dreams\\"...What a disappointment. I have been waiting forever it seems for this book to be published and it was nothing but sex sex and more sex. I dont have a problem with sex...I dont consider myself to be a prude, not at all. I am not easily offended in that regard, but I want a plot. I wanted more action. I have missed my beloved Asher and he was NOWHERE to be seen. He was mentioned...sure, but the only time Asher was actually in a scene was while he was resting. How disappointing. At this point, Im frustrated because I bought this book expecting a great story and all I really got was a porno. I miss my characters. I missed Asher and Jason horribly. I miss the action and to be quite honest, Im getting a little sick of Anitas attitude. I know how I am and I can safely say that if and when the next book comes out, I will most definitely read it. I just hope, hope, hope that LKH comes up with something more reminiscent of the old Anita that I know and loved, because this most recent installment just is a sad display when I KNOW that LKH can do MUCH better.	2004-10-03
US	38855113	R2AUQ88HRK261O	044900516X	625623250	Silver Lining	Books	5	6	7	N	N	She Would Never Be Low Down Again...	\\"Low Down\\" wanted nothing in return for nursing a mining camp full of men thru disease, but after the mens recovery, they excitedly force her to reveal her hearts one true desire. They are willing to do anything in thanks for her nursing them back to health and saving their lives. Reluctant at first, Low Down finally admits that she wants nothing more than a baby.  The men are shocked...rightfully so, but through a wild string of events, Max McCord finds himself the one offered up to fulfill her wish. Max and Low Down agree to a temporay marriage that can only end in disaster... Low Down wants nothing to do with a husband and Max is in love with another.  \\"Silver Lining\\" is such a good book that I could die! I read this in one sitting with only a 3 hour nights sleep interruption. How could I possibly sleep with this amazing story just aching to be finished?? I loved everything about this. I loved Max and his family so much, but really this was \\"Low Down\\"'s book. She was amazing I loved her so much. She has definitely become one of my favorite characters that I have ever met. Truly, this story is just so amazing, and heartwarming, and funny, and just all around wonderful... A genuine keeper.	2004-09-29
US	38855113	R29SCFXLE31GGF	0373253761	461219562	Out Of The Darkness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	There Was Absolutely Nothing About Him That Turned Her Off..	Investigative reporter David Carter is hiding. Over a year has passed since he was involved in a near-fatal accident that left him badly scarred. He has refused to let anyone into his home or his life out of shame and fear of rejection. <br />But photojournalist Karen Anderson wont take no for an answer. She is determined to work with David on her next assignment. She feels sure that his talent will help to boost her career.  <br />As David and Karen get closer together though work and friendship, they fall in love. <br />\\"Out of the Darkness\\" was a good, quick read. I loved that the sole focus of the story was on the h/h and nowhere else. Both David and Karen were very likeable. The authors writing style was simple, but it worked. My only complaint with this book was that the lovescenes were a little purple...too flowery and syrupy. Still, this was a good book. It just missed being a keeper for me, but I would still recommend it.	2004-09-29
US	38855113	R21BB0KI6I52QG	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	2	8	14	N	N	From Just-Laid-Off secretary to Queen of the Undead...	Betsy Taylor is having a bad week...and thats putting it lightly. First she is laid off, next she is killed in a car accident, and last but not least she finds that she isnt actually dead, but undead...shes a vampire. Suddenly her new vampire friends are convinced that she is their foretold queen and that she must assist them in ridding of their prime enemy, Nostro...a power hungry master vampire who has been around for centuries. <br />\\"Undead and Unwed\\"...after reading the reviews for this book and hearing all of the hype, I was so excited to settle in for a great read. At first, I thought that I truly had found a keeper, but this story and its characters just grew tired very fast. Betsy especially. She was fine in small doses, but after awhile, I just couldnt take her anymore. I couldnt get over how mean she was. I get the feeling that the author was going for funny, but Betsy was just flat out callous and obnoxious in her dealings with others. Her relationship with Sinclair was so thin it was laughable. I have no idea what he even saw in her...all she did was treat him with disrespect the entire book. The dialogue was embarassing and tedious..all in all, this book, for me, was a HUGE disappoinment. I would not recommend it. <br />	2004-09-28
US	38855113	RQHK2ILNW6DUV	0446605271	291587924	The Best Man	Books	4	3	7	N	N	May the Best Man Win	Rancher Joe Roark has died. In his will, he agrees to leave all of his wordly goods including his ranch and money to his three daughters Alex, Freddy, and Les. But theres a catch...his daughters, all gently bred, must drive a herd of Longhorns to market in Abilene, Kansas. The three women have to deliver and sell 2000 longhorns at the end of the drive and they must do it alone with only 9 other men to assist them. The Roarke sisters do not get along well. Infact, they want nothing to do with eachother, but suddenly a fortune depends upon the three of them working together.  <br />\\"The Best Man\\" was an enjoyable read. My only complaint that I have is that at times it became a little too easy to set down. While I enjoyed the growing affection between the sisters, I wanted more romance. I also felt that some of the situations that arose in the book and the way that they were handled was somewhat unrealistic and saccharine. This book just missed being a keeper for me, but it is still a story that I would recommend.	2004-09-26
US	38855113	R18PYXHQ5394H2	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	3	2	4	N	N	If you call me, I will come....	This is the story of Sunshine, a woman who spends her free time baking cinnamon rolls and watching movies with her big, close knit family. She is happy in her life, but she is feeling a curious restlessness and wants to have some alone time. She heads out to a lake nearby just to sit and find some peace...but vampires find her instead. Soon she is dressed in a long red gown and shackled to the wall of an abandoned mansion. She is not alone- she is left in the company of a very hungry vampire. Sunshine knows that once he has had his way with her, that she will be dead. But as time passes and dawn approaches, she comes to realize that he means her no harm. When day breaks, Sunshine finds herself wanting to help him survive the light. <br />\\"Sunshine\\" had amazing potential to be an unforgettable book, but it just didnt do much for me. Was it well written? Sure. My main complaint with this book was that there was too much Sunshine and not enough Constantine(her vampire). The story is told from Sunshine's point of view, but I felt that her thoughts meandered too much and the writer went into loooong descriptions about things that I just really could have cared less about. There was way too much of Sunshines thoughts in this book and not enough actual action. What I did love were the interactions between Con and Sunshine and I wanted more of them. I found it frustrating that he wasnt a bigger part of the book and I wanted more from their relationship. As for the other players in the book, there was no character development at all in regards to her family members. Just because we are told that Sunshines mother is normal,but strong willed doesnt help me to know her. There are also a ton of questions left unanswered, but those I can deal with. Basically, I found this book to be mildly entertaining, but not much more. This was not a keeper for me, but if a follow up book is written, I will most definitely read it.	2004-09-23
US	38855113	R38C8I2YZRO9T	0380753995	877433483	Seize the Fire	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Lesson One : The Hardest One to Learn.	Olympia St. Ledger is a princess. A princess in trouble. She is being forced into marriage with her uncle so that he may gain the throne. <br />Alone and afraid, Olympia seeks out the help of Sir Sheridan Drake, a decorated war hero. Sheridan agrees to accompany her and offer his aid in a mission to save both Olympia and her country. Sheridan's and Olympia's relationship blossoms into an intense love affair as together they survive many hardships at the hands of those who want to stop them. It is during this journey that Olympia learns not only of loyalty and courage, but that things are not always as they seem. <br />\\"Seize the fire\\" was an AMAZING read. It was a very emotionally intense story that left me feeling a bit drained and sad at times, but wow was it worth it. I loved The characters of Olympia and Sheridan. Sheridan especially was unforgettable. He was so tortured, and clever, and cynical to the point where it was amusing. His personality was brilliantly created by Kinsale.  <br />\\"Seize the Fire\\" is yet another example of Laura Kinsale's unbelievable talent. I have read much of her work, but I have to say that this may very well be her best IMO.  <br />A DEFINITE keeper.	2004-09-22
US	38855113	RZSKSLV0KQ8O5	0380751402	255053405	Uncertain Magic	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Not bad, but not what Id hoped for (3 1/2 stars)	Young Roderica Delamore has a gift. She has the ability to hear the thoughts of others. However, to Roddy,this is no gift. She views it as more of a curse. When she meets Faelen Savigar, everything changes. Faelen is different. Roddy cannot hear his thoughts at all. He is deeply troubled and is surrounded by dark rumors that have plagued him since he was a child. Together,they find love and begin to heal one another. <br />\\"Uncertain Magic\\" started very strongly. Roddy was a great character. She had guts, but was still soft and sensitive. Faelen was wonderful as well, but I didnt always agree with his actions. This book was written from Roddys point of view. I normally dont like that, but in this instance, it worked. Now, what I didnt like about this book was that it lost its way somewhere towards the middle. The focus shifted away from Roddy and Faelen and just sort of went all over the place. The ending and the explanation that wrapped up any questions was just...well...it was stupid. I dont want to give too much away and ruin the book..Ill just say it was disappointing the way things turned out. Basically, I wanted more Faelen and Roddy and less strangeness. This is not a book Id call a keeper...not at all, but I love a book by Kinsale regardless. Well written...absolutely. A keeper...no.	2004-09-18
US	38855113	R2H3AKAQ1QWXUJ	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thats it, Im in LOVE with Eric... (4 1/2 stars)	Sookie is back in \\"Club Dead\\", the third installment in this delightfully fun series. This time, Sookie is on a mission to find her \\"boyfriend\\" Bill who has gone missing. The book is full of what ive come to expect from the oh so clever Charlaine Harris thus far...it overflows with action, humor and lots of hot men and fun characters. The main draw for me here though was Eric. Eric, Eric, oooooohhh Eric. I just ADORE him. This whole series has been such a great surprise. My only regret in devouring them so fast is that I am now down to only more book. This is another keeper for sure.	2004-09-17
US	38855113	RVHU29UGF09M1	0441011675	477958501	Dead to the World (Southern Vampire Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	61	65	N	N	Finishing this has left me feeling ridiculously melacholy.	I cant believe it. I have now gone through all of the books written in this series thus far and the plot has reached a point where I feel I could burst and now I have to WAIT for the next one to be published...oh, I could just D-I-E!  First of all, if ever there was a \\"dream plot\\" that I would like to be involved in that had me running for my life every 5 minutes, well, the plot of   \\"Dead to the World\\" would be it. I can explain in one word quite simply: ERIC.  I have found him to be outrageously appealing from day one and Im only loving him more as the series progresses...just the thought of finding him along the road all vulnerable and in love with me is enough incentive to put up with Sookies unique troubles for a while. Truly, I love the man. I am so anxious to see what is going to develop and OMG I LLLLOOOVVED the ending. I loved it.... I want that coat.	2004-09-17
US	38855113	R1WVH5FZCT63VE	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	I read it in one sitting....really a good book (4 1/2)	What a fun book! I am a huge fan of Vampire stories. Laurell K. Hamilton especially. I was skeptical about this series of Charlaine Harris's because no way did i think they could compare to the Anita Blake series. Well, Dead Until Dark definitely had a different feel than any LKH book, but it was still unbelievably entertaining. The books pacing was fantastic and the characters were so lovable. I adored Sookie and her vampire, Bill. This is a book that I would definitely recommend. I look forward to continuing onto the others in the series. A keeper.	2004-09-15
US	38855113	RF1ZK21QQVKZM	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Even better than the 1st......	\\"Living Dead in Dallas\\" was a fantastic read. At this point, I am DEEPLY wrapped up in the lives of Miss Sookie and her Vampire friends. I have to say, I adore Bill, but OMG... I am LOVING, LOVING, LOVING Eric. Truly, I am.  <br />Charlaine Harris has such a clever writing style and some of the dialogue(Sookie's especially)is just so surprising and funny.  <br />I can say for sure that the moment I finish with this review that I am diving into the next installment...how could I not? These books are just so fun! \\"Living Dead In Dallas\\" is another keeper for sure. Read it.	2004-09-15
US	38855113	R27HK8UVSFVEX6	0553581422	793368656	Runaway Hearts	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mildly entertaining...forgettable	Miss Mary Lou Finch arrives at the estate of Greystone under the guise of a governess, but secretly she has an ulterior motive. Her father has invested all of her dowry into Damiens Curse, a horse that is owned by the master of Greystone, Pierce Thorndike. The problem is that Damien has gone missing and all of Mary Lous money has disappeared right along with him. She is determined to discover the truth about what really happened and to retrieve her dowry. While looking after Mr.Thorndikes son, the unthinkable happens. Mary Lou falls in love with not only the child, but with his father.  <br />\\"Runaway Hearts\\" started strongly and I thought that I was in for quite a treat, but the book lost steam and was rather flawed. There was practically no character development at all in regards to Pierce. Mary Lou was more fleshed out, but between the two of them, I felt zero chemistry. The writing was also extremely repetitive. Basically, this book was pleasant but in the words of the delightful Miss Finch, The plot was \\"as thin as the chocolate glaze on an eclair\\".	2004-09-04
US	38855113	RVAR8Q86C2LC	0060525193	150247143	A Wanted Man	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Cute and quick...(3 1/2 stars)	Laura Hamilton is a pampered sheltered girl. Finally, at the age of 25, she is given permission to travel. While on a train  to her destination she comes across the dark, dangerous, and oh so dashing Sam Duncan. Together Laura and Sam go on a wild journey and wind up falling in love along the way. <br />\\"A Wanted Man\\" started out very slowly and I wasnt sure if I was going to be able to read it to its finish, but it eventually picked up its pace and its characters became more enjoyable and well fleshed out as the story deepened. This is by no means a book that I would consider a keeper, but it was a fun book that I am glad I read.	2004-09-01
US	38855113	R1GXLJWXT2B849	0759203180	414949399	The Prince of Midnight	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Monseigneur du Minuit...my new favorite hero	God, I LOVED this. Leigh, a desperate English girl, has traveled alone across most of England and France in search of him... Monseigneur du Minuit: The Prince of Midnight. Leigh has lost her loved ones and is desperate and determined to track down and kill the man responsible for the murder of her family. She feels sure that this man known as the Prince of Midnight is the only one that can help her. However, when she does finally come upon him, he is nothing that she was lead to believe. She believed him to be dashing and dangerous, just as the legend of him claimed. What she truly finds is a troubled, lonely, dreamy exile. <br />Left with no other choice, she accepts his offer of help and together they make their way back to where Leigh once lived, but what is now a town under the control of a madman. The same man that killed her family. <br />Leigh and S.T.(her prince)face many obstacles and some of them were quite shocking, but when the book finally does come to an end, it is unbearably sweet. <br />I absolutely fell in love with S.T. He was just so sweet and romantic, and ridiculous, and strong, and brave and just really, really, wonderful. Leigh was harder for me to warm up to. It took me a while to understand her, but eventually I did and her behavior began to make a lot of sense.  <br />The characters in The Prince of Midnight were very well developed and so real. I just loved this story. This is a keeper for me for sure.	2004-08-15
US	38855113	R2NVFZS42AOBQA	0061082279	694014523	Shadow Prince (Harper Monogram)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	If I could roll my eyes in type, I would...(1 1/2 stars)	Shadow Prince sounded great in theory, but man, what a mess this book was. It tells the story of Ariel and Jonah. Ariel has been coerced by her father into signing a one year contract at a treatment facility for people who need plastic surgery...not for cosmetic reasons, but because they have been badly scarred by an accident or were born with some sort of defect. During this time, Ariel begins to take nightly walks and befriends a man named Jonah. Jonah is a complete mystery to Ariel. He stays in the shadows and wont allow for her to see his face...Jonah is badly scarred. He also refuses to tell her anything about himself...Well, let me tell you, Jonah was a complete mystery to me as well. What was an even bigger mystery to me was what the heck these two people saw in eachother that made them fall in love. Ariel was a stuck up whiny brat and Jonah was...well, Jonah was just Jonah. The writing style in Shadow Prince was very amateurish and the dialogue felt forced. All in all, this was a struggle to finish. I would not recommend it.	2004-07-29
US	38855113	R3IO8R2SGRZDZO	0312181108	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books that I have ever read...( 5+ stars)	I loved this. I absolutely loved it. The lead character Cassandra was wonderful. She was so smart and romantic. She made me laugh and even cry a little. This has to be one of the most touching stories I have ever had the pleasure to read. I finished this book in a little over one sitting and I was so upset when it was over.I Capture the Castle is extremely romantic, yet very appropriate for young girls...not just older ones. This is a definite keeper. I would recommend it in an instant.	2004-07-20
US	38855113	R2RLVBAJLR96AI	0821744585	144164700	Temptation's Trail (Lovegram historical romances)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I loved this book! (4 1/2 stars)	Miss Amanda Duncan has traveled all the way from New York to Texas to meet up with the famous and heroic Harmon Bass. Amandas brother has gone missing and it is said that there is no better tracker in the West than Mr. Bass. Upon meeting, Harmon is not exactly what Amanda expected. She expected tall, breathtakingly handsome...a man that wore a gun low on his lean hips and helped others out of honor rather than for payment....She is utterly disappointed when she and Harmon first come face to face, but seeing that she really has no other choice, she decides to trust him to find her brother. Along the way, Amanda finds that Harmon is a good man, but a troubled one...eventually they fall in love. I ADORED Amanda. She has got to be one of my favorite heroines that I have ever read. I wanted to give this book a full 5 star rating, but I felt that it could have had some of its length shaved off. I did not always agree with the characters and their actions, but I felt like they were very well developed and that their faults just made them more realistic. This was a great book. It has most definitely earned a spot on my keepers shelf.	2004-07-18
US	38855113	R2847A11JVWFWV	034544356X	336353882	Seduced by Moonlight (Meredith Gentry, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Seduced by Frost, Doyle, Rhys, Sage, etc, etc, etc.......	Ok. I have no problem with a few sexy scenes in a book, but when it becomes the entire focus, thats when I have a problem. Seduced By Moonlight was so slow in its first half that I came dangerously close to not even finishing it. The beginning chapters were just one page after another filled with wordy dream sequences and excuse after excuse to get Merry's men naked. I will be the first to admit that Merry's men are beyond beautiful and truly it is no hardship to get to \\"know\\" them intimately, but I need a plot, people! FINALLY, after speedreading through too many things that I could have done without, LKH pulled it all together and from midway on, the book became interesting. I thought that some of the violence in the books ending scenes was a bit over the top, but the last pages were fun to read as Merry settled in for the night and we were able to look in and listen to her and her suitors as they whispered to eachother while drifting off to sleep. I just love Rhys and I definitely felt like he stole the show in those last pages. All in all, this is a definite must read if you are a fan. There is too much going on at this point for me to stop reading the series and I hope that LKH comes out with the next book soon because I am very curious to see which man will become Merrys husband.	2004-07-18
US	38855113	R27ABI9PPJ78V7	0345423429	192644371	A Caress of Twilight (Meredith Gentry, Book 2)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good, but  it felt like a filler book...(3 1/2 stars)	This is my least favorite book by LKH thus far. Thats not to say that A Caress of Twilight was a bad book, but it was nowhere near as entertaining as I wanted it to be. It defnitely had the feel of an in between book. It wouldnt really stand alone and I dont think I would have tolerated it as well if I wasnt already so deeply rooted in the story from the previous book. I felt that the lack of characterization was very apparent in this second title. LKH depended too heavily upon physical descriptions and didnt delve deep enough into the core of the main characters IMO. As for the plot, it basically is still following what began in the first installment, but nothing really happens in ACOT until the ending. Still, I cant stop here. I plan on reading the 3rd book ASAP and I also am anxiously awaiting the next installment in the Anita Blake series which I think is far superior to the Merry Gentry books. Basically, this wasnt a keeper, but it is a definite must read for any fan of the series.	2004-07-14
US	38855113	R3QH8R3BA7KF8U	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Couldnt put it down...	I am hopelessly hooked on Laurell K Hamilton. Every book that I pick up that she has written sucks me in and keeps me enthralled until the last page. I have read all of her Anita Blake books, but this was my first taste of The Merry Gentry series. Needless to say, it was very entertaining and action packed...things Ive come to expect from any Hamilton book. There was a bit of sexual overkill as well, but Hamilton does tend to go overboard in that area and I was not surprised or offended by it.The book oozed with a steady supply of unbearably hott men as Merry made her way from one adventure to the next...trust me, even though her life was constantly in danger, she was one lucky girl. All in all, this was a fabulous read. A definite keeper.	2004-07-12
US	38855113	R1K9OW2NAI2HUQ	0380820552	790279630	Getting Her Man	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An ok story with a FABULOUS hero...( 3 1/2 stars)	Diana Belmaine is a Private Investigator. Recently a case has fallen into her lap involving some very pricey artifacts that have gone missing. Her first suspect? The oh so sexy Jack Austin. Good Lord...Drool much? The man was hot. Thick wavy dark hair, a strong active bod, and a sharp mind to go along with it. Truly, I was in love with the man. The idea for the book was an interesting one, but it took me too long to read. It was way too easy to put down. If I had to put my finger on what bothered me, Id have to say that it was Diana. She wasnt awful, but she definitely rubbed me the wrong way for some reason. Still, it was an entertaining read and the epilogue was one of the best that I have ever read. This is my second read by Michele Albert. I can safely say that it wont be my last.	2004-07-09
US	38855113	RZEOM7LSDWZG4	0974363944	721065916	Jinxed (Friends and Lovers Collection)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Quick and cute...	\\"Jinxed\\" was really a cute book. It was fast paced and chock full of fun characters. Afia St. John has bad luck. Her whole life she has considered herself to be Jinxed and the recent theft of her fortune is just one more mishap in her long line of troubles. Enter Jake Leeds. a sexy PI hired to keep an eye on her. Afia thinks that Jake needs her to be his assistant, and has no idea he is being paid to keep her out of trouble. The chemistry between Afia and Jake just sizzles. They were a fantastic couple and Afia had some great friends in her life that lit up the pages as well. Jinxed was a great little book. I am so happy that i found it and definitely  plan to look for more work by Beth Ciotta.	2004-07-06
US	38855113	R2VQL3UMAUD081	0515099511	586249192	The Hellion	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Good but not great...(3 1/2 stars)	The Hellion was an ok book. Tommy Lee and Rachel were involved long ago, but after a 24 year separation, they are reunited. The writing was decent and the story was ok, but I just didnt like the characters all that much. Tommy Lee wasnt too bad, but I found his huge behavioral changes to be somewhat unbelievable. As for Rachel, I just didnt really like her. She came across as a bit of a snob and I felt like it was obvious that Tommy Lee loved Rachel much more than she loved him. Not bad, but not a keeper. Still, it is worth reading especially if you are a real fan of Spencer.	2004-06-25
US	38855113	R2BNX936ORW3WY	0515108030	248736241	Forgiving	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A good book with a great ending...	&quot;Forgiving&quot; was certainly not my favorite book, but it was still an entertaining one. It tells the tale of a woman named Sarah. Sarah comes to the Dakotas to find her estranged sister and to start a newspaper in the mostly male town of Deadwood. Obviously in a town where the population of men is in the thousands, but is occupied by no more than two dozen women, Sarahs arrival creates quite a stir. Sarah is plain and unused to all of the attention, but eventually settles in and forms a friendship with the marshal of the town...the Big and Burly Noah Campbell.As time passes, their friendship turns into something more, but they face many obstacles on their road to happiness. &quot;Forgiving&quot; was a long book. I felt that Spencer could have shaved off a bit of its length and picked up the pace at times. I liked Sarah, but found her to be immensely frustrating. All in all, this was a good, comfortable read, but it just missed earning a spot on my keepers shelf. Either way, it is worth reading.	2004-06-23
US	38855113	R2AGJU9RL07S39	0380820560	192288870	Off Limits	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great characters with great chemistry...(4 1/2 stars)	\\"Off Limits\\"...what a fun, fast read! Emma has just crawled through a rough patch in life and has moved to start fresh. This move includes a new position as detective with the New Orleans Police Department. Once settled in, she is linked up with Bobby Halloran. Bobby is a bad boy detective with a rep for charming the ladies. Watching these two was so much fun. There was such an attraction between them...not just as man and woman, but as friends as well. They made a great team as well as a great couple. This book was tightly written and had a great pace. I loved it. \\"Off Limits\\" was fun, entertaining and very sexy. I would definitely recommmend it...A Keeper.	2004-06-22
US	38855113	R18T5AGMJY48MF	051511801X	331783082	Devotion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I ask you...what was the author THINKING!!???	&quot;Devotion&quot; is exactly the type of romance that I love...a strong, innocent girl turns a tortured mans life upside down and they both fall madly in love...This had a five star rating written all over until the very last page...I have read hundreds of books, but NEVER, and I do mean NEVER, have I read a romance where the h/h dont resolve things one way or another by books end. A reunion was implied, but I am a ROMANCE reader..I dont want my &quot;Happily Ever Afters&quot; implied..I want to SEE them! I felt like the author just got sick of writng and said to herself..&quot;Eh...thats good enough..&quot; UGH. Anyways, this is my first book by this author...I really enjoyed the story and Im going to give her another try...hopefully next time she will follow through.	2004-05-24
US	38855113	R1OKZ3W2KFIR07	0440217318	212588860	A Wild Yearning	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Frustrating...	&quot;A Wild Yearning&quot; had a lot going for it, but there were just too many things that I didnt like about it. First of all, let me just say that I admire Penelope Willamson and have read quite a bit of her work. The heroine of &quot;A Wild Yearning&quot;, Delia, was fantastic. She was completely outspoken and didnt hold in her feelings at all. I adored her. That being said, I couldnt warm to Ty. He was so arrogant. It drove me crazy the way he was so inconsisent with Delia. He was immature and selfish and he drove me insane.  However,Ty's behavior I could have handled... To me, the biggest drawback of this book was its length. I dont have problem with a nice meaty read, but this book just wore out its welcome plain and simple. Too many obstacles were thrown in and it slowed the books pace and frustrated me to no end. All in all, this story was by no means bad, but it is not one that I will read again.	2004-05-17
US	38855113	RG0OJ9WPRES9K	0440220807	31685067	The Portrait	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A fantastic read...(4 1/2 stars)	&quot;The Portrait&quot; was so absolutely different than anything I have ever read. It tells the story of Imogene and Jonas. Imogene has felt invisible her entire life. To gain acceptance of her father, she decides to enroll in an art class. The instructor of this class is Jonas. Jonas has a fear of abandonment due to his manic behavior caused by a mental illness. No one in his life has stood by him. No matter what they promise, they all eventually leave...until Imogene. Watching Imogene and Jonas come together had me flipping the pages like mad to get to the ending. This book was truly unputdownable. I loved Imogenes tenacity and I adored Jonas as well, although, I must admit that Im not sure Id have the strength to be in a relationship with him. All in all, this book, even though not quite a 5 star read for me...is definitely a keeper.	2004-05-12
US	38855113	R1EGG4NQAAFDJT	0440212308	442017075	Lions and Lace	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Well written, but not what I wanted or expected...	&quot;Lions and Lace&quot; was a very well written book...However, it wasnt one that I particularly loved. Trevor and Alana were both frustrating to me. First of all, Alana was frustrating in her refusal to communicate openly. I will say that she broke down and was honest before Trevor, but it was just tiring reading about her supressing her emotions day in and day out. As for Trevor, well, he was mean for 95% of the story. I actually enjoy a mean, brooding hero. But, the man has to show growth and redeem himself...Trevor, even though he would on occassion show a bit of softness, refused to break down and profess his love to Alana until almost the last page. This annoyed me because even though he was undeniably attractive, I just could not understand what Alana saw in him to make her love him so.<BR>All in all, this was a good read, but it missed being a keeper for me because I couldnt fully trust Trevor.	2004-05-10
US	38855113	R2TBWT2GHZTQWC	0451205987	856292484	Wild at Heart	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Entertaining, but not much more...	&quot;Wild at Heart&quot; was different, but not what I wanted it to be. I was very excited by the idea of this book: A man living in the wild falling in love with the daughter of the man studying him. I thought that sounded so different and intriguing. Sadly, the idea was just barely touched upon and the uncivilized Michael was no wild man at all, but very civilized indeed. All in all, this book wasnt bad, but very mediocre. Not a keeper.	2004-05-09
US	38855113	R1L1WN8QRELLST	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My very first Jennifer Crusie...	I ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS. I cannot belive that every reader on here has not rated it 5 stars! What a FUN book! I LOVED Cal. I thought he was sweet, clever, charming, and [very attractive]...and as for Min...Oh My Gosh...She was a riot! The dialogue was unbelievable! I have never read dialogue like that in my life! It sounded so real it was hard to believe that these were only two made up characters speaking and not real people!Im so sad that its over! I am so excited to have found Jennifer Crusie. I fully intend to hunt down and purchase everything I can find that she has put out there... \\"Bet Me\\" is one book that I will be reading over, and over, and over...A DEFINITE KEEPER.	2004-05-05
US	38855113	R2H92KIPIDROQO	1551660571	404539221	Sweet Memories	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A quick, pleasant read...	&quot;Sweet Memories&quot;...I cant say that this was my favorite book of Spencers, but it was still a good book. Theresa and Brian were so good together. Brian ...ooooh, Brian...I could just imagine him all lean hipped in his faded Levis with his blazing green eyes....~sigh~...Yes, he was a major draw for me in this book. I am usually more drawn to Spencers heroines. While I did enjoy Theresa, sometimes she was just too childish for my taste. I did feel for her though and I was so happy when she began to heal and allow herself to open to Brians love. My main problem with this book would have to be the overly syrupy sweetness of the writing that at times made me cringe. I have read a lot of Spencers work and I most definitely prefer her historicals, but even with its flaws, &quot;Sweet Memories&quot; was still a worthwhile read.	2004-05-04
US	38855113	R2N6RDYZ9WL9IX	037327081X	618117836	Beautiful Stranger (The Last Roundup) (Silhouette Intimate Moments, 1011)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast, entertaining read...	I love a good,light read... and though &quot;Beautiful Stranger&quot; was indeed light, it definitely was not fluff. Marissa has struggled with her self esteem her whole life...all that she really wants is for someone to really see her, not just her face, her body, or her money, but her...inside. Along comes Robert and wow, he is just what she needed. I loved that this book focused on their liking eachother, not just craving eachother. This is the kind of book that can be devoured in one sitting. It is full of likeable, realistic characters that I feel sure will remain in love once the luster wears off. Not quite a keeper,but definitely worthwhile.	2004-05-04
US	38855113	R27IIZ1LF3L32Y	0505524465	683844967	Danegeld (Love Spell historical romance)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great book that was hard to put down...	&quot;Danegeld&quot; was a book that was pretty much unputdownable for me. The pacing was perfect and the story line was interesting, but at times a bit unnerving. There was a lot violence in this story and a part of me had trouble embracing the hero, Karn. The book opens to Karn and his Viking friends attacking a village. Some of the things that he not only participated in, but turned a blind eye to, put a bad taste in my mouth. However, there is a definite change in him as the story progresses and you can see him looking back on his past behavior with regret. In the end, I wanted him to have his beloved Britta. I was happy when they overcame their numerous obstacles to be together.All in all, this could have been a 5 star read, but I knocked off a star for some of my personal feelings towards Karn and the sometimes lengthly separtions of the central characters.	2004-05-03
US	38855113	R2DU6BGDI7WG7K	0446605972	917004128	The Passions of Emma	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Beautiful...	This is a hard review to write. As I was reading &quot;The Passions of Emma&quot;, several thoughts came to mind. First of all, the writing was absolutely GORGEOUS. The tone of the book was a melancholy one, but very smart and thoughtful. I loved Emma. I felt like I related to her so much that I just was riveted. However, as much as I was drawn to this book, oddly enough, I cant say that I adored it. I felt like the whole situation was just so uncomfortable and it bothered me that no matter how much Shay loved Emma, that they were only together because of their loss of Bria. Emma will always be second best in my mind because of the circumstances that brought them together and I really hate that. I also felt like Emma loved Shay more. How could he say that there would never be another for him and that he loved her with all of his heart when his Bria had just had that honor only a short time earlier? So, this leaves me confused...but, I cant rate the book any lower than 5 stars, because it truly deserves the high rating. All in all this was a beautiful, almost haunting book. I am glad that I read it,and have a feeling that I will be coming back to it again in the future.	2004-05-02
US	38855113	R1YCCRIW3XR9HG	0449005186	956472087	The Bride of Willow Creek	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable, but not a keeper...	&quot;The Bride of Willow Creek&quot; was an enjoyable read. I especially liked the heroine Angie and the two little girls, Lucy and Daisy.As for Sam, he was ok, but nothing that really captured my interest. My main problem with this book was Angie and Sams frustrating stubborness to profess their love to one another. They were intimate,and completely open about their enjoyment of eachother, but still they refused to admit that they wanted to stay in their marriage. To me, this just seemed like a ploy to keep the story moving. All in all, not bad, but definitely not a keeper.	2004-04-29
US	38855113	R1FCQZVOS1SR0C	0446603244	264832628	Brides of Prairie Gold	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Excellent...(4 1/2 stars)	What a book! &quot;The Brides of Prairie Gold&quot; was truly entertaining. The book was labeled as a romance, but I have to say that it focused more on the womens relationships with each other than on romance. Thats not to say there was no romance. The main couple, Perrin and Cody, were interesting, but what I really wished for was more of Webb and Mem - I would have LOVED a book written that focused on them alone. Webb was amazing and I prayed for so long that he would FINALLY notice Mem...the scene where they commited themselves to one another was so romantic I could have died...Any frustrations I felt toward Webb vanished when he proclaimed his intentions in a swoon inducing lovescene that took place in hot springs...oh,I truly could have died! So...why not 5 stars? All in all, I wanted a little more focus on romance, but my main problem with the book was its ending...too sad for my taste. Still, this is a genuine keeper...Id recommend it.	2004-04-27
US	38855113	R1TPH54LVOTXW2	051511331X	504254741	November of the Heart	Books	5	15	17	N	N	So unbelievably good, Im feeling speechless...	well ok -not speechless- but certainly pleasantly dreamy. What a story!!!! I am IN LOVE with Jens Harkin!! Where does Lavyrle Spencer come up with these men???!!! Lorna was wonderful as well. I have never found an author that writes better heroines than LS. Both Jens and Lorna were so well developed...believable in that I didnt always agree with their actions, but fell in love with both of them regardless. This book was just riveting. I loved the conflict of their classes and all of the obstacles just had me feeling insanely impatient, but wow! What an ending. PLEASE...go buy this book and read it. You wont regret it. This is a genuine keeper that I look forward to rereading again and again.	2004-04-25
US	38855113	R1LMGY4BZX8WCH	0451202902	618527757	Sweet Everlasting	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A sweet story, but not a keeper...(3 1/2 stars)	At first glance, &quot;Sweet Everlasting&quot; appeared to me to be the ultimate keeper. The opening chapters blended together to build up a tale that I was sure would deliver a genuine emotional punch to the gut.Unfortunately, as the book progressed, it lost steam and just meandered aimlessly...I felt like some scenes were thrown in simply as filler. The h/h- Tyler and Carrie, suffered the same demise as the plot. In the beginning,I was absolutely in love with both of them, but they lost their luster as the book plateaued into nothing more than just a little step above forgetable. All in all, not bad, but not a keeper.	2004-04-18
US	38855113	R1O48JDVJPZR5R	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good book, a FABULOUS hero...	\\"Where Dreams Begin\\" is certainly not my favorite Kleypas, but the hero, Zachary Bronson, is truly one of her best. I was so taken with him from page one that even though the story didnt grip me as much as I wished, I wasnt disappointed. I will admit that Lady Holly's reluctance to love him was maddening and I felt that the ending was dragged out a bit. All in all, this wasnt my favorite, but Zachary's heady mix of pride, strength, gentleness, and pure sex appeal elevated this book to much more than mediocre.	2004-04-04
US	38855113	R3PX4IQ9QX6GJM	0515090379	679725329	Separate Beds	Books	5	3	4	N	N	OH. MY. GOD...I LOVED THIS!!!!	Whew!! What a book! I lost so much sleep and my housework went to hell, but wow was it worth it. I could NOT put this book down. &quot;Separate Beds&quot; was absolutely gripping! Clay was to die for I am telling you...first of all he was gorgeous, but his personality..oh!! He was so playful and adorable and polite, and oh my GOD ..did I mention he was to die for? Next came Catherine. She was not as easy to like as Clay, but her character developed in a believable way...simply put...she and Clay were PERFECT together. This has made my list of top faves. I am telling you..stop whatever you are doing now,buy the book, and for goodness sake...READ IT!!!	2004-04-01
US	38855113	R24MV91YJYEFCL	0553584413	876323830	My Favorite Thief	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not bad...	\\"My Favorite Thief\\" started out so strong and so entertaining that I was sure I had a keeper...what a disappointment. First of all, this was Harrison's book. I LOVED him. He was well developed and sexy as hell. As for Charlotte, well..she seemed rather flat to me. But her lack of character is not what kept this story from being great. It was that there were so few scenes with the h/h interacting. I felt like they barely knew eachother. The fact that they had so little time together throughout the book made their mutual declaration of love ring false...I felt no chemistry at all... All in all, this wasn't awful, but I wouldn't necessarily recommend it either...	2004-03-31
US	38855113	RWODIHYH5Z1R9	0515102636	995847624	Morning Glory	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Spencer does it again...(4 1/2 stars)	It always amazes me how consistently brilliant Lavyrle Spencer is. Even if Im not crazy about all of her books, there is no arguing that the woman can write.... &quot;Morning Glory&quot; is a perfect example of Spencer's enormous talent for making the characters and the scenery enveloping them leap to life. &quot;Morning Glory&quot; was a heartwarming  tale of Will and Elly- two lost souls who had known little happiness in their lives, but who found love in eachother. I LOVED this book. I thought that the characters growth was a wonder to watch and I enjoyed every moment. My only quibble with this book was that I felt that there wasn't enough romantic tension...Elly and Will proclaimed their love too early on for my taste, but regardless the story was enthralling. All in all a fantastic read...	2004-03-30
US	38855113	R3A426D8HMZ470	051508901X	861253564	The Gamble	Books	5	3	3	N	N	FABULOUS!!!!	Oh my, what a book. Lavyrle Spencer creates some of the most realistic and likeable characters Ive ever met.I absolutely LOVED Scott and Agatha together. I always adore Spencer's Heroines;They are flawed and so human. The writing was,as usual,incredible. The books pacing was perfect and the scenery and all of the characters were so colorful they nearly jumped out of the pages. Only one thing bothered me about this book and that was the situation with Justine- it felt thrown in...otherwise...PERFECTION.	2004-03-22
US	38855113	RBPQLP4QV6HYX	0399139060	461297317	Family Blessings	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A fast, romantic read....(4 1/2 stars)	&quot;Family Blessings&quot; was definitely different. The book was lent to me without a dust jacket, so I had no idea what to expect of the story line. I was pleasantly surprised. I felt that the characters were well fleshed out and easy to relate to. I did however have a few quibbles. First of all, I thought that some of the writing was a little syrupy sweet.There was also a bit of an ick factor at work here...for me anyways. I didn't have a problem with Chris and Lee's age difference, but the fact that he had been best friends with her 25 year old son was just a little offputting. I did eventually get over it, but I also was a little bothered by Lee getting involved with a man that her daughter openly had a crush on. All in all, this was a heartwarming read, but I had a few mixed feelings about it.	2004-03-20
US	38855113	R8Q9DNDO758LY	0345447395	543272644	The President's Daughter: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Mediocre...	&quot;The President's Daughter&quot; wasnt a bad book,but it wasnt great either. The characters had absolutely no chemistry. I felt that the label of &quot;romantic suspense&quot; was misleading. There was ABSOLUTELY NO romance in this story. All in all, I'd say that this book was pretty forgetable. I wouldnt recommend it.	2004-03-02
US	38855113	R2KOD3HO4XNKHP	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I love Lisa Kleypas....(4 1/2 stars)	I think that Lisa Kleypas is a brilliant writer. I snatch up everything that she puts out there. IMO, she is only getting better. That being said, I LOVED this book. I absolutely adored McKenna. Aline was a wonderful character as well, but I found her lack of faith in McKenna's love exasperating at times...though I did understand her fears. SO, why not 5 stars?<BR>Well, there was a strong secondary romance in this book-too strong. It was between Mckenna's friend Gideon,and Aline's sister Livia. The problem here was that Gideon and Livia were so likeable and their romance took up such a substanial part of the book, that I felt that it came dangerously close to overshadowing the central players and their love story. All in all, I think that this was a fast, romantic read. I admire Ms. Kleypas. I think that her writing style is unbelievably smart and I look forward to her next release.	2004-02-26
US	38855113	R3JM20X1UJAGBH	0552138959	983242953	The Man Who Made Husbands Jealous	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A blast...(4 1/2 stars)	I love Jilly Cooper. Her books are always packed with characters. \\"The Man Who Made Husbands Jealous\\" was not my favorite of hers,however I was still wild about it. This book was enormous, but it was paced perfectly and Lysander was just as sweet as pie.I was rooting for him all the way through. I just know he and Kitty will live happily ever after... My main complaint is that I felt there were a few loose strings dangling at the end of the book, but all in all this was -in typical Jilly Cooper fashion- a definite keeper.	2004-02-25
US	38855113	R8CZNWRMNEL4A	0515090654	553735563	Twice Loved	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Eh.....	I wanted to love this..I really did, but I just COULD NOT STAND Laura. I felt that she was playing both Rye and Dan. I disliked her so much that I didnt think she deserved either of them. The writing was pretty good and I thought that the idea for the story was an interesting one, but I just couldnt connect with the characters. One thing that I really did LOVE about this book though were the flashbacks of Laura and Rye discovering eachother and falling in love when they were young...in my opinion, no one can write sexual tension like Lavyrle Spencer. All in all, not bad, but not to die for either.... for a book by Ms Spencer, I thought this was woefully average.	2004-02-08
US	38855113	R3D0RPFNZUJADC	0671508229	359383889	Heart of the West	Books	4	6	10	N	N	4 Stars based on Part One of story...	Ok...here is the sad, sick truth. It is now over one month into the year 2004 and I have yet to finish one book! I am an addict when it comes to books, so this lack of reading is appalling! I was hoping that &quot;Heart of the West&quot; would pull me from my slump, but unfortunately, it only pushed me deeper into my reading rut. Let me explain...I started this book and fell in love with it instantly...it was my constant companion for days..I could NOT put it down. The characters and the storyline were exquisite......so, what went wrong? ...I was reading and I had reached a point where the story was building up to this incredible peak when all of a sudden ..Poof! The central characters disappeared, years passed, and the author just introduced all of these new faces with no explanation! I skimmed ahead to see how long Id have to wait to get back to my beloved Zach and Clem, only to go thru pages and pages and they were GONE! I was so upset. I tried to keep reading, but the new plot line and new players just bored me and frustrated me. I think that Penelope Willaimson is a brilliant writer... however, I wish that when she started a tale, that she wouldnt divert from the central story line and the characters that are within it. All in all , this could have been an unbelievably AMAZING read.. but, sadly...it lost my interest :o(	2004-02-07
US	38855113	R3OV5XA01QU91E	1556524048	461509028	Forever Amber (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	174	186	N	N	Wildly Addictive	A friend of mine recommended &quot;Forever Amber&quot; to me. I can honestly say that otherwise, I would not have read it. Thank God she did tell me about how amazing it was...this is NOT a story to be missed! I could not believe that this was written back in 1944...it felt so fresh and not at all old fashioned.<BR>I thought that the authors writing style was brilliant. The book is mainly about the life of a girl called Amber St. Clare. The thing about Amber is that she is not easy to like..in fact..I was appalled by her often, but at the same time I found myself admiring her determination, rooting for her, and pitying her as well. The book goes on for 972 pages and at the end of it all I actually wanted MORE. The descriptions were so vivid that I felt like I could see, smell, TASTE London as it was in the 1660s. I am so happy to have experienced this tale. I plan to look for more of Kathleen Winsors work and I wholeheartedly recommend this book to any lover of Historical Fiction.	2003-12-20
US	38855113	R3KM2P6F61CE5I	0515108618	467159520	Come Spring	Books	2	2	5	N	N	2 and 1/2 stars....	I LOVE books. To me, there is nothing more disappointing than a book that has enormous potential, but doesnt live up to it. Unfortunately, that was the case with the story &quot;Come Spring&quot;.<BR>The tale is set in the 1890s, however the language and the actions of the characters felt distinctly modern. Speaking of characters..we have Annika and Buck. Yes, thats right..Buck. I ask you..what writer dreams up a man that is suppose to be desirable and saddles him with the name Buck??....but that is only one problem here. As I mentioned before..the players within this story do not act or speak in a way that was proper during the time period. That may seem like a small thing, but I was constantly being pulled from the story as more and more inaccuracies came to light. I also had a very hard time connecting with the h/h and felt that the ending was dragged out for far too long simply to add to the books length. All in all, this wasnt awful, but not great. Id say it was a notch below mediocre. I wouldnt recommend it.	2003-12-15
US	38855113	RA0COSZ75KTHQ	0373290276	675110448	The Last Rogue	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Im sorry, was this suppose to be entertainment?	UGH...Man, a book has to be REALLY bad for me to give it 1 star....I was so bored by this that I actually stopped reading it and shelved it when I was only 10 pages away from the ending. First we have Jane. She was SO RUDE.. I swear if she sniffed or squeaked one more time, I was ready to pitch this book out the window! Then there was Raleigh who was constantly described as emitting a low hum and caring more about his attire than all else. Oh yeah, he sounds like the man of my dreams. The &quot;plot&quot; revolves around a bit of a mystery which is just too stupid to even contemplate. For me, the only mystery of this book is how in the heck these two people fell in love!! I especially felt bad for Raleigh when all Jane did was B**ch and moan at him all day long....How this was published.. I have no idea....there are too many books and too little time to waste it on this mess. In my humble opinion....I say skip it.	2003-12-11
US	38855113	R1EF2WTNTRD7X5	1590803132	994284851	Highland Honor	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A fast, pleasant read...	\\"Highland Honor\\" was a sweet book. Although I enjoyed getting to know  the characters of Gavin and Hannah, I felt that I had a little trouble connecting with them...I also thought that some of the book needed tightening to improve the storys flow. I did, however, think that the idea for the tale was a clever one. The authors writing style reminded me a bit of Julie Garwood. All in all this missed being a keeper for me, but I am glad that I had a chance to read it and will look to see what Ms. Pepio comes up with in the future	2003-12-08
US	38855113	R2WOZ7K168UW6F	0515103969	806597035	The Endearment	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Has made my list of all time favorites....	How one could find this boring, I have no clue...I guess everyone is different because I was ABSOLUTELY SWEPT AWAY by &quot;The Endearment&quot;. I could not put this book down..I was addicted to it from page one. I LOVED Karl and Anna. I adored the way he talked to her..how he called her &quot;Onnuh&quot;...yes he angered me at times, but oh!!! Have I mentioned how much I LOVED this??!!! The lovesecenes were so emotional and sweet..not a hint of purple prose in sight. Karl and Anna were so unsure and in need of one another my heart was practically splitting in two just imagining them. This is one of those stories where I walked away in disbelief that the characters were not actually real people. I cannot say enough about this book..I would DEFINITELY recommend it.	2003-12-07
US	38855113	R2RVBTAOSKTCJG	051512866X	477226687	Winter Garden	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful...	Winter Garden has to be one of the most romantic stories I have ever had the pleasure to read. It is a quiet story..slowly paced and character driven. The book mainly focuses on the developing relationship between Maddie and Thomas and little else. Ah, Thomas...where to begin? I found him to be heartbreakingly sweet and unsure. He was SO IN LOVE..the manner in which he spoke and reacted towards Maddie had me melting. I will never forget him or this story and fully intend to read it over and over. Now this is a what I would call a GENUINE love story that I would DEFINITELY recommend.	2003-12-06
US	38855113	R28GPEPFH1GQMJ	1551666367	348253131	Two Alone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fast, sexy read..( 4 1/2 stars)	Let me just say that I LOVE STRANDED STORIES. \\"Two Alone\\" was a great one. I liked the fact that the story jumped right in at page one and just kept going. The characters of Rusty and Cooper were fanatstic together..Cooper was SO ALPHA and Rusty was his perfect match. As much as I loved this story..for some reason I cant explain it just didnt feel like a 5 star read. I was a bit disappointed by how quickly the ending was wrapped up and that their reconciliation was told to the reader rather than shown. However, even with its flaws..this book was and is a keeper for me.	2003-12-05
US	38855113	RBWRWLJJJUQKF	0821755951	502671633	My Steadfast Heart	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A book that was near impossible to put down..( 4 1/2 stars)	Wow. My first book by Jo Goodman has me convinced it wont be my last. What a story! There were so many twists and turns in this I didnt know what to expect next....I would have given this 5 stars in a heartbeat, but for 2 things that niggled at me. First of all..there was so much going on that sometimes I felt that the main relationship between Colin and Mercedes got a bit lost in the mix. My second complaint that was the most glaring..to me anyways...was that I loved the character Aubrey so much that I wanted him to have his own book instead of just having his relationship with Sylvia mentioned in passing. I was bordering on liking him more than Colin and I really hate it when secondary characters become more attractive than the central players. All in all,this was a FANTASTIC read with an ending that made me immediately order its sequel. I highly recommend reading &quot;My Steadfast Heart&quot;..you wont be sorry.	2003-12-04
US	38855113	R3JFGUN8BK8NUR	0515101222	64032814	Spring Fancy	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Tacky, Tacky, Tacky.....	Oh how it breaks my heart to give such a low rating to a book by Spencer, but I just couldnt see it any other way. What an AWFUL story. I couldnt stand the characters. First we have Winn. She was so inconsistent and two faced I wanted to slap her. She would encourage the &quot;hero&quot; constantly, only to turn around in a huff 2 seconds later because she just couldnt do that to her fiance...oh, and the &quot;hero&quot;, Jo Jo..yes, thats right, Jo Jo..oh my. His name is Only the beginning of his problems. He is decribed as having FEMININE curly hair and he is so annoying and childish I just couldnt take it anymore. Slap these two together and wrap them up in a stupid storyline with the most ridiculous dialogue and you have &quot;Spring Fancy&quot;. So, why 2 stars?...Its a Lavyrle Spencer. Only my love for this author kept me from rating it a 1.	2003-11-19
US	38855113	R2ABHPU41A353X	0515084891	408737567	Years	Books	5	12	12	N	N	PERFECTION.	OH. MY. GOD. What a book! I LOVED THIS! Teddy and Linnea were SO romantic together. This is only my second book by LS, but I can honestly say Ive never read another author who can write sexual tension like she can! Whew! This book is FULL of likeable characters that go way beyond just the h/h. Speaking of heroines...Linnea was fantastic. She was so stubborn and what a daydreamer! I just adored her. This is a book that is going on my keepers shelf for sure. I wholeheartedly recommend it.	2003-11-11
US	38855113	R1MVJS2VZULM34	0553762834	137354587	The Rebel and the Redcoat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heartwrenching..SO GOOD!	I LOVED this! What a story! What characters! This was so well written and the h/h, Jo and Damien were unbelievably well developed. I cant tell you how I cried. I felt so TORN while reading this! As much as I adored this, I have one problem..I felt that towards the end, everything was wrapped up too fast and too neatly. The book could have been shortened a bit thru its middle and devoted more time to its conclusion. I also felt it was a bit unbelievable that some of the secondary characters were so willing to commit treason simply to make a happy ending possible. However, this was such a wonderful book that I couldnt help but give it 5 stars regardless of its flaws.....I would definitely recommend it.	2003-11-10
US	38855113	R1LE20K4Y7UP53	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	4	7	7	N	N	4 1/2 stars......A keeper.	After reading &quot;The Lover&quot; I just KNEW I had to read Gabriels story. Wow. This was better than I had expected. It was heartstoppingly erotic of course, but then its a Robin Schone..so thats to be expected. While I enjoyed all of the characters, Gabriel, to me, was the books attraction. Watching Victoria break thru his feigned indifference was spellbinding. However much I was captivated by this tale, I couldnt give it 5 stars... Some of the crudeness was just a bit  much for me, but I loved the book regardless. In my mind any flaw that was within this story was glossed over by the absolutely EXQUISITE last page.This is a book that is going  forever on my keepers shelf.	2003-11-10
US	38855113	R1OBL0OC1CY24E	0758204272	656376580	The Lover	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Could have been better...( 3 1/2 stars)	Robin Schone is fairly new to me. Ever since I picked up her book \\"The Ladys Tutor\\", I have been on a quest to read everything I can get my hands on that she has written. \\"The Lover\\" started out wonderfully. I was soooo curious to see where things were going to go. It had all of the elements Ive come to expect from Schones books...It had a tortured hero and mysterious happenings...it had wildly erotic lovescenes and was SO WELL WRITTEN. So...why not 5 stars? Well, the thing Ive come to REALLY LOVE about Robin Schones stories is that she is able to so beautifully balance the erotic with the romantic. Unfortunately, I felt that \\"the Lover\\" focused a bit too much on the characters sex life and not on their emotions. It is for this reason that I didnt rate the book higher. Would I recommend this? To a fan of Ms. Schones...absolutely. However, to anyone who hasnt yet read her, Id start them on something else of hers. All in all...a worthwhile read, but not a keeper.	2003-11-05
US	38855113	RFB2KI54VYFTR	0684807599	322198911	Outsider	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An interesting, worthwhile read....	Wow. This really was interesting. I loved learning about the different way that the characters within this story lived their lives. I also enjoyed watching Rachel and Johnny getting to know one another. As much as I enjoyed this, though..I had a few quibbles...first and foremost, I wanted Johnny's point of view. The book went into everyones head but his( except for a short while near the ending) and this disappointed me. Also, while I enjoyed the depth to which I was introduced to secondary characters, sometimes I felt like the focus of the central players got a lost a little bit simply because there were so many other people within this story. With that said, I have to move on and say how much I adored this book.....and even though I couldnt get enough of the h/h, I have to admit my favorite character was Benjo. Never have I read a sweeter character. This is a book that I would definitely recommend.	2003-11-02
US	38855113	R33P8TK2LA6D2K	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting.....( 3 1/2 stars)	I found this book to be interesting, but not exactly consuming. I will say that I completed it  quickly and easily, but I wasnt at all overly impressed by it. I thought it was sad. I wanted more from the ending. I suppose I wanted a sort of happily ever after that just wasnt possible...This was a somewhat big book and the idea of it is what kept me reading to the end..more so than the characters within. Would I recommend this? Im not sure... but I am glad that I was able to experience it.	2003-10-30
US	38855113	R1I37RJ9MN3I9I	0843952075	599385235	The Sea Wife	Books	2	3	6	N	N	THANK GOD ITS OVER .	I have been struggling to finish this book for about a week now. Oh, was it ever painful. I have absolutely no idea why I insisted on finishing it, but finish it I did...oh, what a chore! First of all, for me to like a romance written from only the heroines point of view, it has to be exceptional. \\"The Sea Wife\\" was far from it. The h/h drove me insane and I could never understand what Sabina saw in Myles when all he ever was was nasty. I will admit that the book finally got SOMEWHAT interesting at page 185. This is the ONLY REASON I awarded this story with more than 1 star. Would I recommend this?? Well, if you are an insomniac and need something to bore you into unconciousness, then by all means..partake. As for the rest of you readers out there who value your precious free time...youve been warned!	2003-10-28
US	38855113	R2C4M6JJRMAH0K	0451408934	506250960	River of Summer	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fast entertaining read that was hard to put down....	I really enjoyed \\"River of Summer\\". I loved watching the relationship between Paul and Zoe bloom. My main problem with this book was that I wanted more from Paul. I wanted to get into his head. I also felt that he was a bit immature and cant help wondering if someday his behavior will begin to grate on Zoe's nerves. I will say that I found him to be sexy, but he just wasnt what Id I personally go for.I also thought that Zoe treated him harshly at times and I sincerely felt like I wanted to jump into the story and shake some sense into her. All in all this was a good solid read. Even though it didnt quite make it onto my keepers shelf, I would still recommend it.	2003-10-23
US	38855113	R2HVUSODGRXYHL	1575669072	798558310	Awaken, My Love (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Riveting...( 4 1/2 stars)	Wow. What a book . I can safely say that this is unlike any other \\"timetravel\\" book that Ive gotten my hands on. I enjoyed it immensely. I will say that it could be a bit shocking in its explicitness...so, it may not be for everyone. Why not 5 stars? Well, I loved Elaine..and I found Charles to be fantastically sexy..I liked him even when I hated him. However, I wanted to get into his head a little more..I wanted him to soften up a bit sometimes. I will say though that I can understand his hesitancy to let his guard down due to some of his previous experiences with his wife. My only other quibble was that I felt there were a few things that were left without enough explanation, but I loved this book regardless and it has definitely made my keepers list.	2003-10-22
US	38855113	R175TRYU0SQF4T	0515118044	845135086	Always to Remember	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wonderful...	I love Lorraine Heath. Its hard to find another author that can create such tender, masculine heroes. Wow, Clay really is perfectly suited to this role. He was so sweet and unsure, yet undeniably masculine. I adored him. I enjoyed Meg as well... but Clay, to me, was the main attraction here. This is a quietly romantic book. It doesnt hit you over the head ,but sneaks up on you and worms its way in until you cant set it down. It is full of some of the sweetest, smallest, most genuine moments. I cant tell you how much I enjoyed this and I highly recommnd it.	2003-10-21
US	38855113	RQOB2MEP2FEWT	051509160X	154648853	Hummingbird	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Unputdownable!	Wow! My very first LaVyrle Spencer! What a treat! What a book! I LOVED Abbie and Jesse. They had the most amazing chemistry Ive ever read! From the moment they met I honestly think that they were ruined for anyone else..they were just soooo DRAWN to eachother!I adored both characters, but I have to say it was Abbie who really entertained me the most. She was wild. Some of the things she said and did...oh, and her thoughts to herself were an absolute riot! Ms. Spencer has an amazing talent when it comes to writing dialogue...wow, it just flows. I had one little quibble with this book and that was with the way the situation with David was handled. However, I adored this book soooo much, that this wasnt enough of an issue to dampen my enjoyment of the overall story. I HIGHLY recommend immersing yourself in this. What a read!	2003-10-10
US	38855113	R1BADSE4HUGYDL	1551665743	118691559	Mackenzie's Mountain	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Great Read....	God, I Love Linda Howard. She's always writing about these big Alpha men...my faves....in fiction anyways :o)...Wolf is no exception. He is big, strong, and a bit commanding, but I really Loved him. As much as I enjoyed him and the character of his son, Joe, the real highlight for me was Mary. Some of the thoughts that she had were a riot. She had such a sweet mix of spunk and insecurity mixed with a touch of naivete..I just adored her and couldnt help but laugh at the numerous lewd thoughts that sprang to her mind everytime Wolf entered the picture. As much as I enjoyed this, it just fell short of being a keeper for me....But I would still wholeheartedly recommend it.	2003-10-04
US	38855113	R38X877BEUCJ8Y	0373512023	511576585	Whispers In The Woods (Reader's Choice)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Weird, but in a good way...( 3 1/2 stars)	Hmm...where to begin? This was an odd story. The heroine Paloma was very sweet, but isolated...it was the hero who was the most intriguing...I cant get into the reasons why, I dont want to enter spoiler territory. I dont think that this book is for everyone. It requires the reader to be very openminded, and to disregard the notion that this tale could in any way occur in reality. I personally enjoyed it and would have given it a higher rating, but I felt that the writing style was a bit amateurish and I wanted a better facial description of the hero.<BR>Would I recommend this?..Im not sure, but I am glad that I had a chance to experience it myself.	2003-10-03
US	38855113	R6M4GZFWXV95U	0380777045	498053158	This Fierce Loving	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Unbearably romantic.......( 4 1/2 stars)	I LOVED, LOVED, LOVED this book! I have been on a real roll lately..reading keeper after keeper. \\"This Fierce Loving\\" was no exception. What a story! It was refreshing because it was so different from the masses of other romances that I have read. I so enjoyed the characters! Talon could not have been any sexier and Becca was strong without being annoying. The story surrounding them was not only romantic, but so action packed and exciting!! So why not 5 stars? I had a quibble. I didnt feel that the storyline involving Colin offered much closure...also, I thought that the ending conflict felt a bit rushed. Other than that..wow...what a keeper. Definitely one that Id recommend!	2003-10-02
US	38855113	R19YTC5COG8G3M	0312983751	70656303	Take a Chance on Me	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So much FUN!!! ( 4 1/2 stars)	What a funny little book! The story was so sweet and the characters had soo much chemistry..wow! It is rare for me to read a book where I equally enjoy the h/h...Emma and Thomas were so perfect together and I adored both of them so much. There was a lot of laughter in this tale as well. I especially loved getting in to little Hairy the dog's head. What a cute idea! My only quibble with this book that kept me from giving it 5 stars was that I felt the beginning was dragged out a bit. There was a gap when Emma and Thomas werent together that just felt like forever. Other than that, once this book got rolling, it was truly delightful. Id definitely recommend it :o)	2003-10-01
US	38855113	R1FDGY8FOFC38W	0786247088	71899998	Fallen From Grace	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Amazing Read.....	Wow. This is not like any story Ive EVER read. In the front of the book, the author mentions that romance readers are more interested in a great story than a safe one. She really nailed it when she said that. What a book! &quot;Fallen From Grace&quot; had great characters in its h/h, Sara and Ryan. This book , however, belonged to Ryan. I loved the story. The way it didnt apologize for itself when it got gritty..didnt try to gloss itself over..it was blunt, to the point, real, and so achingly romantic. The main draw for me though ,was definitely Ryan. What a genuine HERO. The things that he overcame..his gentle and sincere treatment of others...his compassion..all of this wrapped up in such an appealing package. He was a bit damaged from his secrets ,yes, but so Wholly a MAN. I LOVED this book..I read it in a matter of hours it was so unputdownable. This is a book that is a keeper for me for sure.	2003-09-30
US	38855113	R18B8LAJZS1VFA	0380790947	986179021	The Passion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	UNBEARABLY BRILLAINT!!!	Wow. I had only read about 2 sentences of the first paragraph when it hit me that this book was going to be different. My God was I right. Im so GLAD that I was. While experiencing this story, it became quite clear to me that this was an author who truly ADORED writing. Her wording was gorgeous. There was very little dialogue in this book. It was all about detail and getting into the characters heads to REALLY KNOW THEM. What well fleshed out characters!!.....This story went in a direction I did not expect..with a h/h that I never would have guessed would have come together..I was misled for so long!! Oh, but even though the outcome was inevitably bittersweet..I would have had it no other way. The way that this was written, after you are over your intial outrage at the outcome of certain events, you will see that things could have ended in no other way and that all is ultimately as it should be.<BR>I cannot say enough this beautifully and brilliantly written love story. It is DEFINITELY one that I wont soon forget. A genuine keeper.	2003-09-29
US	38855113	R2H2K6DZJJ3O2P	1856957829	654061113	Polo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant! My favorite in the series thus far!!	I LOVE Jilly Cooper!!! I LOVED this book! What a fantastic story!! What FABULOUS characters!!I never know where Cooper's books are gonna go..she is NEVER predictable!!! I was so wrapped up in Luke that I couldnt stand it!!! This was a wildly entertaining book written by a wildly brilliant author, overflowing with Shocking characters, numerous storylines, and just sooo much fun!! I have no idea how Jilly Cooper manages to tie it all together..but, WOW! What a keeper!	2003-09-24
US	38855113	R2NR203CYS22ZY	0060505249	793121371	Where's My Hero? (A Bow Street Novella)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Average...	I am, as a rule, NOT a fan of anthologies, and sadly this book is no exception. I just cant get into short stories. They always feel rushed  and good character development basically doesnt exist due to the brief length of each tale. I really only bought this book because Im a huge fan of Kleypas and Quinn. While I wouldnt necessarily say this was bad reading..I cant say it was a keeper. Im in a bit of a reading rutt right now..I cant find ANYTHING good to read lately...if anyone has any suggestions..feel free to email me.. :o)	2003-09-10
US	38855113	R1Z2Z9QPPS2GLS	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fantastic, sexy, spooky read....	\\"Dream Man\\" was fabulous. It was fast paced and gripping. I was home alone the night I read it and it literally had me spooked. I loved Dane..even when I hated him. Marlie was enjoyable as well, but not quite as well fleshed out. My main reason for not giving this book 5 stars was that I felt there was a distinct lack of emotion in the relationship between the h/h. It WAS there, but it focused more on their sexual attractions than anything else. Still..... I cant complain. Linda Howard is a new author for me. This was only my second book from her. Needless to say...it WONT be my last!	2003-09-04
US	38855113	R3B6WY72DCFL35	0373288999	832503943	Gambler's Heart	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Painfully boring...	I have absolutely no idea how I managed to finish reading this, but the fact that some elusive \\"thing\\" kept me trudging along until it ended is the only reason that I gave this book more than 1 star. Blah. Where to begin? Maddy..the \\"heroine\\" was my biggest problem. I hated her. She lied constantly to her husband for the stupidest reasons..yet continued to wonder why Jean Luc didnt believe in her love....gee, lets see, if I lied to my hubby over and over, Id EXPECT him to be wary of me. The \\"story\\" was terribly written with paragraphs that jumped around leaving the reader momentarily confused...the setting was soooo bland..they never left the bedroom ....oh yeah..and getting back to the wonderful Maddy..she was ASHAMED of J.L..she even admitted it to herself! I just dont understand the glowing reviews of this book...and this actually won an award...wow. This book had AMAZING potential..I LOVE beauty and the beast type books...sadly, this was just a waste of time. I wouldnt recommend it.	2003-09-03
US	38855113	R3J5ZJ15ZPMR8K	0451204557	882899306	Veils of Silk	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Just couldnt get into it....	&quot;Veils of Silk&quot; was just not for me. I didnt connect with the characters at all. I thought that Ian's issues were justifiable, but the reasons behind Laura's troubles,I thought, were just stupid. I can understand being upset over her father's death and all of that, but refusing intimacy because of her parents torrid relationship was just such a weak plot device. I also just couldnt get into the setting of this book at all. I couldnt finish this story...so why not 1 star? Its a Mary Jo Putney. I have many of her books and think that she is brilliant,unfortunately, &quot;Veils of Silk&quot; just fell flat.	2003-08-30
US	38855113	R24YLO07IYXU22	0345416597	832275502	Entwined	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not as moving as Id hoped it to be...(3 1/2 stars)	I liked &quot;Entwined&quot; well enough..but i didnt love it. It started out fantastically, but I felt like it lost its way somewhere towards the last third of the book. I enjoyed the characters of Isobel and Nathan , but thought that they lacked chemistry.I also found it annoying the way that Isobel just accepted her familys drunken irresponsible behavior as if it were only a slight annoyance. I would have liked to have gotten to know some of the secondary characters better..especially some of Nathans spy friends. All in all not bad, but not one Id read again.	2003-08-27
US	38855113	RU1OKPC3WC8ZD	0515129518	291358908	A Rogue's Pleasure	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A good book to pass the time...	&quot;A Rogue's Pleasure&quot; was a good book with good characters. I enjoyed both Anthony and Chelsea very much....Anthony especially. I thought it was refreshing how open he was with his feelings for Chelsea. He never pretended not to feel for her,in fact, he declares himself very early on...it was very sweet actually. So why only 3 stars? For some reason I cant name, this book failed to grab me. I found myself putting it down again and again...flipping ahead to see how much was left. The plot wasnt all that entertaining, and the villian was very obvious. All in all a pleasant read, but not a keeper for me.	2003-08-26
US	38855113	R3ROR4ASN9U2R7	0758203926	244919481	The Lady's Tutor (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	BRILLIANT	I honestly cant see how some read this book and say that it is homophobic...are there homosexuals in it? yes....are they bad people?..in this instance..yes..but there just as many heterosexuals in this world(if not more) that do awful things....That wasnt the purpose of this book Im sure. This was a LOVE story..I will agree that it was HIGHLY erotic, yet, to me, that wasnt really the focus here...the focus was on 2 lonely people looking for love who found it with eachother. I absolutely loved this. I would recommend this book in a blink.	2003-08-24
US	38855113	R3MSTX9F8WRQW5	1551664798	744154624	Duncan's Bride	Books	5	6	9	N	N	GREAT READ...	I love a book like &quot;Duncan's Bride&quot;..it was fast paced, had well fleshed out characters, and a story that zeroed in on them alone. There was not one outside source or person that took away from what this book was really about...Reese and Maddie. I LOVE a good character driven romance. I would highly recommend reading this one.	2003-08-23
US	38855113	R2S9LATM7KNKHR	0821749021	169944173	Tapestry	Books	5	3	5	N	N	WOW.	I dont even know what to say about this book..it is not like any other romance that I have read. It is gripping and so emotional. It starts off wonderfully..so romantic...turns into something so sad I was blubbering around like a fool ....oh but the ending! Its sooo satisfying! I will tell you..this is not an easy read..it is emotionally draining and at times so frustrating that I found myself speedreading...desperate for everything to be resolved...I ABSOLUTELY LOVED this story...I would recommend it without hesitation.<BR>WOW.	2003-08-23
US	38855113	R30TOZB0FQMLZD	0451407547	190066965	Texas Splendor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A  sweet read....	&quot;Texas Splendor&quot; was Austin's story. I enjoyed it, but I have to say that it paled in comparison to the previous books in the series. I just couldnt completely warm up to Loree. I also felt that there was a lack of Chemistry between the h/h. I couldnt put my finger on it exactly, but something just didnt ring true. I felt that the conflict was resolved in a very hasty and unbelievable manner as well, but I so love this family..being able to revisit them made up for any of the flaws lurking throughout. My biggest wish? I want a book for Rawley!! All in all , this is a definite must read for any fan of this incredible series.	2003-08-22
US	38855113	R1O776MS1IY0MD	0451407539	822343099	Texas Glory	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fabulous!	After reading &quot;Texas Destiny&quot; there was absolutely NO DOUBT in my mind that I had to finish the series. &quot;Texas Glory&quot; did not disappoint. I have to admit that Dallas wasnt my fave after meeting him in the first book, but wow! This was fantastic. I thought that he and Dee were great together..what a 2 hanky read! Whew! My only complaint with this book is that I felt like Dallas and Dee needed to work on communicating a little bit better..so much heartache could have been avoided if only they would have opened up a bit more to eachother. Other than that..perfect.	2003-08-21
US	38855113	R6PWGF6ZU1YPE	0451407520	236841738	Texas Destiny	Books	5	4	4	N	N	OH !! SO HEARTWRENCHINGLY PERFECT!	Oh My God did I LOVE this. I didnt want it to end..Im in love with Houston! I thought that Amelia was his absolute PERFECT match. This whole story just killed me. I loved how this was so character driven..I dont know what to say that can possibly do this book justice...just please..BUY THIS!!!	2003-08-16
US	38855113	R2P13YF4Y27VKC	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	WONDERFUL!	I ABSOLUTELY ADORED THIS STORY! Its been a long time since Ive read a book that had such amazing characters that positively sizzled with chemistry! Even more then that though, was how obvious it was that not only did Saint and Evelyn want eachother, but they truly LIKED one another.Saint has to be one of my all time fave heroes. I LOVED THIS! OH!! The last scene! I reread it like a million times..read this book! YOU WONT BE SORRY!!!	2003-08-15
US	38855113	R3AVNT4V4K2XFP	0758204531	86146164	Standing in the Shadows (The McCloud Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Oh did I love this!!	Erotica with a plot and actual EMOTIONS!!!! I LOVED THIS!! I enjoyed the previous book  \\"Behind Closed Doors\\" as well, but wow ..I was glued to this one! I absolutely ADORED Connor and Erin together...Yes..at times I wanted to kill Connor..but OH!! He redeemed himself for sure!! This was a fantastic book that I would recommend in a heartbeat..this ones made it to my keepers shelf FOR SURE!	2003-08-14
US	38855113	R15YTRV92HU5RD	0380820803	706042167	Confessions of a Scoundrel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT.	I read this book in one day..I could not stay away! I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT! My housework suffered for the day, yes..but OH! It was sooo worth it! I loved EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS STORY...Brandon was to die for and I adored Verena. I thought the story was interesting and I felt that the author did a fantastic job of not only developing the characters, but making sure that other aspects of the plot didnt overshadow the h/h and their growing love for one another. This was my first book by this author..Im so excited to have found her ! I cant wait to read about Chase!!!	2003-08-13
US	38855113	R2HW9BVMFMU6JQ	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Book One: Twilight Phantasies ( 3 1/2 stars)	I enjoyed this book, but I have to say that it wasnt anything special..after reading the Anita Blake series..I feel like Im ruined for any other Vamp book because I just cant see how it could possibly get any better than that series.I will say that Twilight Phantasies had some amazing lovescenes..I enjoyed Eric very much..but I just couldnt connect with Tamara..sometimes she just acted like she was TSTL...anyways...Im definitely going to dive into the second story soon. Im looking forward to it.	2003-08-13
US	38855113	R37MSXTY7LV968	044022375X	861496437	My Dearest Enemy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Brockway is Brilliant!!!	&quot;My Dearest Enemy&quot; was a great read. I enjoyed the characters very much..Bernard especially crept into my heart and Id LOVE to see him get a book of his own. My one complaint with this book is the patience that it requires..the h/h dont meet until after 50 pages in ...also...the one lovescene comes very late in the book..(though Ill admit its placement was appropriate). However, these quibbles aside, this really was a wonderful book and the ending was completely satisfying..Id definitely recommend this.	2003-08-11
US	38855113	R1EANMJ3DPGI9F	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Cute story, but not what I wanted it to be........	&quot;A Nerd In Shining Armor&quot; had all the makings to be a truly wonderful read, but sadly....it failed. I loved Jackson..I thought he was sweet and adorably dorky..Gen was OK...so I was excited to see how things went when they got stranded together....what a disappoinment! It had its moments, but there werent enough scenes between them..the focus of the story flew around too much ..it took away from the relationship between the h/h...There was way too much attention paid to Gen's mom and her goings on...I dont want to hear about her story!! I wanted just Gen and Jack...also..the whole hillbillie thing was just stupid...these characters were underdeveloped and the story was thin..all in all it wasnt awful, but I wouldnt recommend it.	2003-08-09
US	38855113	R1HVQF2L0YMH6E	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	S-T-E-A-M-Y!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	Whew! What a scorcher! I loved this story. How fantastic to find such an erotic book that ACTUALLY HAS A PLOT!!! I will tell you now that Seth is not an easy guy to like let alone love, but he definitely grew on me and I absolutely ADORED him by books end. My main reason for not giving this 5 stars is that I was sometimes so distracted by the side plot that I wanted more of Seth and Raine..not lovescenes..but them together just interacting and getting to know one another....other than that ..this was a fabulous read that Id recommend in a second.	2003-08-07
US	38855113	R1MS4QLPT1DUNI	037305355X	489987339	Love Song for a Raven (Silhouette Desire No 355)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Embarassingly bad....	&quot;Love Song For a Raven&quot; had the potential to be fantastic, but the writing and the dialogue were so flowery and ridiculous that I couldnt help but cringe. I thought that the characters were woefully underdeveloped and the love between them blossomed so fast that it bordered on unbelievable. Raven was ok..but his whole &quot;Gratitude/Love&quot; thing grew tired..and Janna was just plain annoying...I would have given this only 1 star, but it IS an Elizabeth Lowell and this was OBVIOUSLY one of her earlier efforts. All in all I definitely would NOT recommend this.	2003-08-03
US	38855113	RZN9JCL354NMS	0515134503	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (An Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another winner....	&quot;Obsidian Butterfly&quot; was a great book in this series..but then..arent they all? This book focused on Edward. It was nice to FINALLY get to know him a bit better. There was a TON of action in this book that kept me glued to the story..my one complaint that took off a star is that as much as I needed a breather..I missed Jean Claude !!!! I also missed the wolves..especially Jason ..and of course the wereleopards..other than that.a definite must read.	2003-07-31
US	38855113	R101GV30ZVEXZB	0515133876	449119181	Narcissus in Chains (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 10)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I loved this book..I cant believe the bad reviews..	Okay..I will admit that this book crossed the line into kinky, but I was so entertained I just didnt care. I will say that I didnt care for Micah overly much..the fact that hes little enough to swap clothes with Anita was just too disturbing. I for one have had enough of Richards whining..whats up with him? Infact..that was the biggest let down here for me..the powers between the 3 of them( Anita, J.C and Richard) dont really have anywhere to go because Richard just cant handle it. All in all this was a great book, but definitely not one for the faint of heart.	2003-07-31
US	38855113	R3G6DEWYQBYFID	0425188361	549489959	Cerulean Sins (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 11)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Im still loving this series..I want some more..	I will admit that Hamilton has gone into overload a bit with some of her sex and violence, but Im still so entertained by it all. My main complaint with this book is that none of the plots are completed in a way that I felt truly satisfied..the way that the plot with Musette was resolved left me so disappointed..it was too easy! What I really want more of is Asher..I can say that I ALMOST like him more than Jean Claude..I also really enjoyed delving deeper into Jason..hes been one of my faves for so long..it was fun to have so much of him here...all in all another entertaining read..	2003-07-31
US	38855113	RHUG42NGKNOR3	0515134503	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (An Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 9)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another winner....	&quot;Obsidian Butterfly&quot; was a great book in this series..but then..arent they all? This book focused on Edward. It was nice to FINALLY get to know him a bit better. There was a TON of action in this book that kept me glued to the story..my one complaint that took off a star is that as much as I needed a breather..I missed Jean Claude !!!! I also missed the wolves..especially Jason ..and of course the wereleopards..other than that.a definite must read.	2003-07-31
US	38855113	R2Y0YXQQ1B894K	0515134457	552287926	Blue Moon (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 8)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	God, I love these books..	I have yet to be bored by one of these fabulous books. I swear..I dont know how Anita can hold herself back when shes surrounded by all of those hott hott men!! Sometimes I wish she'd just give in to each and everyone of them...I suppose that makes me sound awful, but hey..its fiction... :o)...Anyways..I was happy to see more of Asher in this book..I find him to be the yummiest and wish Anita would go for him...Soo many choices!! &quot;Blue Moon&quot; was ,of course, full of tons of action and I am planning on starting the next installment as soon as Im done writing this review. I wholeheartedly recommend getting into this series..it is wildly entertaining and is coming with me to the Isle for sure.	2003-07-27
US	38855113	RRZT79TCUJFPA	0553502670	312382646	The Kiss (Danielle Steel)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Blah...	It amazes me that Ms. Steel has as many readers as she does..&quot;The Kiss&quot; was a book that failed to hold my attention..I couldnt finish it. I felt like the whole time I was reading..instead of being &quot;Shown&quot; what was going on I was being told all of the time..This leads to flat characters and a story I just didnt care about at all. Also..whats with all of the repetition?? Surely I got the point that Isabelle is concerned with Teddy's health after the first 55 times she mentioned it!!! I swear she repeats herself just to fill up space..All in all I thought this was a poorly written book that just isnt worth the time it takes to read..I wouldnt recommend it.	2003-07-25
US	38855113	R189LH96TD2ZEX	0380814390	855303202	Lola Carlyle Reveals All	Books	5	1	4	N	N	I cant believe this book hasnt gotten better reviews!!!	I absolutely LOVED this book! I am a big fan of Rachel Gibsons and this has to be one of my faves! I LOVED Max.. he is agressive and arrogant but sooo sweet!... I loved him sooo much!!..Hes definitely been added to my list of favorite heros..Lola was entertaining ..I really liked the fact that although she was girly, she didnt act like a total TSTL ninny. This book was fast paced and wildly entertaining. If youre into stories where the h/h get stranded and are alone together for long periods of time..this is the book for you. I highly recommend reading this..Im definitely taking it with me to the Desert Isle.	2003-07-22
US	38855113	R2RA7H8GNG2HAZ	0515118370	626044934	Simple Jess	Books	3	10	16	N	N	A sweet story..( 31/2 stars)	&quot;Simple Jess&quot; was a truly sweet story..I thought that it had amazing potential, but sadly, it didnt live up to it. My disappointment in this book has nothing to do with the characters or the writing, but the fact that there werent enough interactions between Jesse and Althea. I felt that there were too many side plots that took away from the central characters and because of this I felt that the book suffered. All in all a good story ,but could have been sooo much better if only there had been more time devoted to the love story between Jesse and Althea.	2003-07-20
US	38855113	R20OXVU4VU4XT2	0743407067	568855770	The First Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Made my list of top 10 faves...	Wow. You know how sometimes you read a book..and when youre finished..you actually hesitate to read another because you still feel so moved??? Well..&quot;The First Time&quot; is one of those books. It is absolutely heartwrenching. Romantic..sooo romantic..soo real. The characters of Jake and Mattie were wonderfully developed. I highly recommend sinking your teeth into this fantastically romantic and well written story.	2003-07-18
US	38855113	R18W98ICQNORN6	0515134473	733422192	Burnt Offerings (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 7)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Oh my, Oh my, Oh my..	Is it even possible for Laurell Hamilton to write a boring book?<br />\\"Burnt Offerings\\" was absolutely wild!! I loved this!!! Just when you thought you had a little breathing room..bam!! Something else would happen..the non stop action is addictive. Jean-Claude and Anita are fabulous...as are the rest of the gang. This is definitely a series Id recommend..it is unputdownable..I have lost so much sleep staying up late reading, but oooh is it worth it!!..Buy it!	2003-07-16
US	38855113	R36OOAWB4I51HN	0515134511	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 6)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Still going strong..	&quot;The Killing Dance&quot; felt a little slower when it came to action, but it made up for it with some thrilling new developments in Anita's personal life...developments that I have been impatiently waiting and waiting for..I was not disappointed!! Another definite must read from Laurell Hamilton...God I love Jean-Claude..... :o)	2003-07-15
US	38855113	R6BNS343XGJWZ	0061040266	731139372	Candle in the Window: Castles #1 (Castles Series)	Books	2	0	4	N	N	I just couldnt get into it..	I thought that this book had unbelievable potential, but I just couldnt like it no matter how much I wanted to. I absolutely loathed the characters.. I thought that Saura was annoying and William was such a pig I wanted to jump right into the book and belt him upside the head..needless to say, I did not finish this ..why waste time reading something I dont even like a little when there are so many amazing stories out there to be read??? I have many books by Ms. Dodd and I have enjoyed the majority of them..sadly, I cannot say the same for &quot;Candle in the Window&quot; This is not a book that I would recommend.	2003-07-15
US	38855113	RRXN7W3A2TBHP	0515134481	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A definite must read.	Wildly entertaining. I am addicted to this series. I urge anyone out there who hasnt read them yet to dive on in. They are full of non stop action and sooo much fun! A definite keeper.	2003-07-14
US	38855113	R1NWO02405BOK1	0515134465	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 5)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yet another winner.....	I am obsessed with this series!! It blows my mind that here I am 5 books in and they just keep getting better and better! There are NO lulls in these books..its nonstop action!!! Im so happy that I discovered this series after so many had been written...the thought of having to wait a year or more for the next book is just too much. I cannot wait to get started on the next installment. I would DEFINITELY recommend reading this series. It is WILDLY ENTERTAINING!!	2003-07-13
US	38855113	R1WA255IZIEL36	051513452X	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Whoa....	&quot;The Lunatic Cafe&quot; was one wild ride. I dont know how Ms. Hamilton does it, but I swear the woman is brilliant. I have never been this addicted to a book. I absolutely COULD NOT put this down. In fact, its been that way with every book in this series thus far. My only problem now is that I have to wait for the next one to arrive. Until then I shall be watching my mail impatiently for the next installment. GO out and buy these books..you wont be sorry!	2003-07-11
US	38855113	RAWLS1A32O5WZ	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A cute story, but not a keeper..(3 3/4 stars)	&quot;Bewitching&quot; was a sweet book. I absolutely loved Joy. She was extremely likable and good hearted. I will say that I had a problem connecting with Alec. I just couldnt see what Joy saw in him..he was rude so often..I did soften a bit towards him as the story went on, but I just couldnt 100% love him. I also felt that the character of Stephen felt a bit forced and thrown in just to give Alec a reason to &quot;see the light&quot; so to speak. All in all a fun book, but not one Ill take take to the isle.	2003-07-10
US	38855113	R1QRN8ESRPMJ73	0373289170	639982199	The Devil Earl	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A cute, quick read....	\\"The Devil Earl\\" was such fun! I absolutely loved Sebastian...he could be difficult at times, but I adored him anyway. I definitely feel that this was Sebastian's book. Though he and Pru were both well drawn, I felt that he was a bit more fleshed out. I enjoyed reading his point of view and getting to know him throughout the book. My one complaint here is that the mystery is solved when there is still a bit of reading to do. It made it drag a little towards the end...the last 20 pages or so felt unnecessary. Other than that..A fast fun read.	2003-07-08
US	38855113	R1UNCLJB6LCTJ	0060508108	371901411	Duchess in Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A sweet and funny romance...	&quot;Duchess in Love&quot; was really a sweet book. I love a story where the conflict is within the relationship instead of some outside source...there really is no villian here..the h/h are really the only ones standing in the way of their own happiness....I also enjoyed getting to know the secondary characters..my only quibble with this book was that I felt that there was a bit TOO MUCH attention on the other players..it took away a bit from the primary relationship betyween Cam and Gina....all in all a good read, but not one that is a keeper for me.	2003-07-07
US	38855113	RTFXTS23WWRW4	0061013897	832356175	The Black Angel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A worthwhile read...(3 1/2 stars)	&quot;Black Angel&quot; was a good book. I enjoyed it, but didnt love it. I found that I couldnt quite connect with the characters. I did enjoy Tynan..and Adriana wasnt awful, but I thought that they could have been a bit more fleshed out. I also felt that the ending was rushed..I wanted more. A worthwhile read, but not one that is a keeper for me.	2003-07-04
US	38855113	R144EYME33G7SA	0515134449	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Another Winner.......	I have to tell you..Im loving these Anita Blake books..definitely something different. I enjoyed this story very much...my one complaint??? Not enough Jean Claude...this is one wild ride..I highly recommend getting into this series..its worth your while and sooo entertaining!!	2003-07-02
US	38855113	RORVB77TT2QC8	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A well written worthwhile read.....	&quot;Wicked&quot; was my first book by Jill Barnett..I think it is safe to say it wont be my last. I enjoyed this story very much. I loved the moment when the H/H first met. Sophia was a great character. She was very well drawn. So much so that I felt a bit cheated when it came to Tobin..I would have liked to have gotten to know him a bit better.My other quibble with this book has to do with the frequent separations...one was rather long..I REALLY dislike that in a romance...this wasnt a keeper for me, but definitely a book that Id recommend reading.	2003-07-01
US	38855113	R197NOOR5QAVOV	0671737627	591607741	Once and Always (The Sequels series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A book worth reading...(3 1/2 stars)	&quot;Once and Always&quot; was a good story. I love the way that Judith McNaught takes her time in letting you really know the characters..she doesnt skimp when in comes to character development..I love this about her. Victoria and Jason were definitely interesting and well written. I enjoyed their story, but I cant say that this was one of my favorites by McNaught. I had a few problems with Jason. He was INCREDIBLY difficult to like. I did feel a softening towards him as I came to understand him better, but I never felt like I could embrace his character 100% .....I was also bothered by the character of Andrew..I hate it when another suitor is thrown into a story and he is more endearing than the hero!! I also felt that the ending was thrown together too quickly. All in all a pretty good read, but not my favorite..	2003-06-29
US	38855113	R3JYACNJVQWX9E	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wow....A Keeper for sure...	OH MY GOD did I love this book. Funny..it sat in my TBR pile for months...Today I just picked it up on a whim..and bam! I was hooked..let me tell you..my housework suffered for sure..I COULD NOT TEAR MYSELF AWAY..this story..and the characters within were fantastic...I absolutely ADORED Sin..and Callie was so perfect for him...I am DEFINITELY going to look into the other books in this series...DEFINITELY a MUST READ!	2003-06-28
US	38855113	R14LLC2K957XSD	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A wonderful, romantic read....(4 1/2 stars)	&quot;To Sir Phillip With Love&quot; was a wonderful book. Funny, but at first I was having doubts about how to review it. Be patient with this book. I found that it was not quite so light as the previous stories in the series, but very well written. It seems to me that this book has a more mature feel to it than Ms. Quinn's earlier works. You can see how she has grown in skill. My only complaint in this book was that I would have liked to have seen more of the Bridgerton clan...This book belonged to Phillip. I enjoyed him immensely, but he takes a bit to grow on you.. like Eloise and Phillip's love..this book sneaks up on you..it grabs ahold of you and it is REALLY a good thing.	2003-06-26
US	38855113	R1GFZ9KL1DN8EO	0821764705	192091663	Lady Fortune (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A fun read, but not my favorite Anne Stuart...	&quot;Lady Fortune&quot; was enjoyable, but for one reason or another, I just couldnt seem to connect very well with the characters...paticularly Nicholas. I love Anne Stuart, and I most definitely wouldnt dissuade one from reading this book..it was sweet and it moved a long nicely, it just didnt grab ahold of me as tightly as I would have liked. Not a keeper for me, but definitely worth reading.	2003-06-26
US	38855113	R13T90C08I0D0J	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	UNPUTDOWNABLE!!!! FABULOUS!!!	\\"Guilty Pleasures\\" was a wildly entertaining book..it gripped me immediately and held me tight..I m telling you I could not walk away from this book..it was just sooooo good! I have read other books similar to this, but none have come even close to being as brilliant..I am eagerly anticipating moving on to the other books in this series.I highly recommend this as a must read..however, be forewarned, if you find violence and a bit of gore upsetting, this may not be the book for you.	2003-06-24
US	38855113	R16PA96I0BOU4G	0671725327	887480346	Too Deep for Tears	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A difficult review to write..............	To write a review on this book is difficult for me because I had so many mixed feelings toward this group of stories. Book one was undoubtedly my favorite..it touched me deeply and it definitely had me crying on more than one occassion..however..the other books within failed to move me at all(with the exception of the final book)I actually only finished reading out of curiosity more than anything else...My four star rating is based purely on book one. I would have awarded it with 5 stars, but I found that a certain choice that was made within it was just too unforgivable. In fact, I am now reading &quot;All We Hold Dear&quot;<BR> in the hopes that this choice and the events that followed it are somehow remedied..I dont want to go into detail because Ill be entering spoiler territory, but all I have to say is that Im crossing my fingers, hoping for the best, and thinking of Ian.	2003-06-17
US	38855113	R17BGU09GSU2VI	0380809095	60777476	The Wicked One	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A good read, but sadly not what I had hoped for..	Oh how I was looking forward to this book. I loved Lucien throughout this series and I was so impatient to get to his story. Well, I hate to say it, my heart breaks to admit it, but I was disappointed in this book. Thats not to say it was a bad book, its just that it wasnt what I wanted it to be. First of all..I had one hell of a time liking the character of Eva..she was OK, but nothing special. Lucien was sweet and I adored him, but I felt like the only way to truly appreciate him was to know him from the previous books. I think readers who dont know him from the earlier stories may not like him . My main complaint with this book, however, was the fact that a lot of its plot clung to the rescue of Perry and Nerissas relationship. I think that Nerissa should have gotten her own book...and I definitely think that this subplot took the spot light off of Lucien and Eva. All in all..this WAS a great book, but to fully appreciate it, I highly recommend reading it as part of the series..(In order they are The Wild One, The Beloved One, The Defiant One, and The Wicked One)	2003-06-08
US	38855113	R2N5VSZUM4L8CB	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Brilliant!!!!!	I LOVE THIS BOOK! I have just finished reading it for the second time..and if its possible, I actually enjoyed it more this time around..what a book!! There are so many stand out scenes....from the unbuttoning of the glove to the evening out in the streets of Paris during a thunderstorm..Im telling you this book has it all.... and the characters!!..especially Sebastian,are ones that you wont soon forget!...This baby is coming with me to the Desert Isle!	2003-06-08
US	38855113	R3K0H1WOTW2KUN	0380809087	970567738	The Defiant One	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fabulous...(4 3/4 stars)	Usually I find when reading a series that most of the books within it are average with one or two of them being true keepers. Well not so with this fantastic series about the de Montforte brothers! So far..they have ALL been keepers! &quot;The Defiant One&quot; was about Andrew..whom I have to tell you thus far is my personal favorite. I absolutely loved watching him and Celsiana come together. Now, some may say that this story was just a bit too unbelievable..and perhaps it was, but you know...its fiction..and thats the fun of it!...if you havent already read this series I wholeheartedly urge you to..I think youll be glad that you did..I CANNOT WAIT to now read Luciens story..I have a feeling that he is going to blow all of the other brothers out of the water!	2003-06-06
US	38855113	R25PV8BDHC71RE	038079263X	659208625	Beloved One	Books	5	55	58	N	N	ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT!!!	I am absolutely loving this series of books about these sexy brothers!! I thought that the first installment \\"The Wild One\\" was fabulous..well..let me tell you..\\"The Beloved One\\" was even BETTER! I LOVED this story. Charles and Amy were two wonderfully developed characters..they were so meant for eachother. It was heartwrenchingly bittersweet watching them fall in love..seeing all of the hardships that they went through and overcame together..I Love this family!! I am as we speak beginning the next in the series..Andrews story. I HIGHLY recommend these books..DEFINITE KEEPERS!..(In order they are.. The Wild One, The Beloved One, The Defiant One, and The Wicked One...enjoy!)	2003-06-05
US	38855113	R12R8EOLG99LDS	0451408012	317232401	Lord of Midnight (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good read...	&quot;Lord of Midnight&quot; was a good read. I enjoyed it well enough, however it fell short of keeper status for a few reasons. First off...The speed that Renald and Claire feel in love was just too hard to believe..one moment she hated him..then she felt some stirrings of desire then..bam!! She says to herself that this is a man that she will love for always..now...I can understand hating a man, but still desiring him..I can even understand EVENTUALLY falling im love with him, but in this story..it happened so out of nowhwere..I couldnt help but wonder where in the hell I was when this great love developed! I also felt that this book belonged to Claire..I dont have a problem with a book being dominated by one character, but I would have liked a chance to get inside of Renalds mind more often..I wanted to know him better...all in all this WAS a good book, but it fell short of fantastic...still..it is worth reading. I look forward to more from Jo Beverley.	2003-06-04
US	38855113	R3UFHXI985CL7I	0373288581	698226061	The Vicar's Daughter (Harlequin Historical, No 258)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SUCH A FUN STORY!!!!....(4 1/2 stars)	I will be the first to admit that \\"The Vicars Daughter\\" is not much more than a frothy fluffy read..but sooooooo much fun!! I loved Charlotte so much..she was a joy! Max was a riot..he was so upset all of the time it killed me! There were some weak points to this book, but overall it was so enjoyable that any missteps didnt bother me a bit. I wholeheartedly recommend this to anyone who wants to spend their afternoon on a refreshingly sweet little book!	2003-06-02
US	38855113	R1OXM02G3LL9HM	0380800195	365140139	My Man Pendleton	Books	5	29	36	N	N	SOOOO FUN!!! A DEFINITE KEEPER!!!!!!	Initially, when I read the back of this book..I found that I wasnt in the least bit interested....for some reason though, I picked it up and decided to have a looksey....and that was that..I was hooked!! What a fun story. Pendelton was so sweet and sexy..and Kit...oh Kit!! I have to say she was an original..what a strong personality..I was afraid Id hate her at first..boy was I wrong!! I just loved this..and the way that Pendelton proves his love for Kit is unbearably adorable!! The last 2 paragraphs of this book had me gasping in delight!! READ THIS!! You wont be sorry!	2003-06-01
US	38855113	R35WFXEDPBIBQN	0425158624	151274310	Silent Melody	Books	3	2	15	N	N	A sweet, well written story....(3 1/2)	Silent Melody was a sweet heartfelt read...I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Mary Balogh, however it wasnt for me. I did enjoy it, but I have found that in having read a few of her other books in the past, that while they are good, they just arent for me...I would definitely not dissuade anyone from reading this book..I just personally prefer other authors.	2003-06-01
US	38855113	R3N1Z35BYXWN9C	0505524546	503499887	The Wildest Shore	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not  what Id hoped for.....	&quot;The Wildest Shore&quot; was an entertaining book..the plot was DEFINITELY different as were the characters and their backgrounds. I did enjoy this, but I didnt love it..I found myself setting it aside over and over..I just thought the whole vision thing was ridiculous. Also..I had a hard time connecting with the h/h. I didnt get a sense of their feelings or their passion for one another at all. I did not like Anne at all. I thought that she was annoying and full of herself. I enjoyed Horatio, but thought that his character was underdeveloped..all in all not bad, but could have been soooo much better than it was.	2003-05-31
US	38855113	R1TO5TE3T53OKL	0380792621	506380407	The Wild One	Books	4	66	75	N	N	I absolutely LOVED this book! (4  3/4 stars)	I LOVED THIS STORY. I thought that Gareth was unbearably adorable..so he was a little immature at times, but he was only 23 and I for one, was thoroughly charmed by him. I adored watching him with Juliet and especially his interactions with little Charlotte. I thought that Juliet was his perfect match , though Ill admit that at first it worried me that she had been involved with his brother,but my fears were soon laid to rest as I watched their love grow. My only quibble with this book was that sometimes I felt like other aspects of the plot overshadowed the romance, but for the most part..I LOVED THIS.. A definite keeper..I cannot wait to move onto the next in the series!	2003-05-28
US	38855113	R2JLOEWXYQ475	0449005178	41262187	I Do, I Do, I Do	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thoroughly delightful!!!	What a completely charming book!! Normally, a book that revolves around 3 separate romances would throw me off, but this was just too good!!! I have to tell you this book had some of the funniest lovescenes I have ever encountered...the scene between Juliette and Ben when he was setting the table is one that I wont soon forget!! As much as I loved the romance, and the fun storyline and setting, my favorite part of this book had to be the friendship between the 3 women...they were all so different..Juliette was a riot..Im telling you this is a must read!!	2003-05-28
US	38855113	R2LASVJU6XYUHN	038079635X	178129249	The Wedding Night	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent, touching story..(4 1/2 stars)	I absolutely LOVED this book...Mairey was an extremely likeable character and I have to say that Jack has made my list of all time favorite heroes. He was so unbearably sweet and open with his affection. It was such a pleasure watching him interact not only with Mairey , but with her little sisters as well. I have but one quibble with this book..it has to do with a part of the plot and an absolutely ridiculous decision that Mairey makes towards the end of the book...it is eventually resolved, but just the fact that she made such a choice( which I wont reveal because it would be entering spoiler territory)made me want to scream and hurl this book at the wall. Now..disregard that statement and RUN out to get this book...it is an absolute treasure!	2003-05-27
US	38855113	R1ONOMRSIVN60P	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Had amazing potential , but sadly didnt live up to it..	&quot;Dark Desire&quot; is the first &quot;dark&quot; book that Ive gotten my hands on. The whole idea behind the book had me wildly curious and I couldnt wait to read it. I was disappointed. I liked Jacques and Shea was ok, but I was bored. The story moved along very slowly and there was too little dialogue. Also, Shea was constantly changing her mind about how she felt for Jacques..she annoyed me. I also felt that a lot of the time the characters acted out in ways that were just totally unbelievable. This was mediocre at best. It could have been a fantastic story, but the writing was repetitive and the plot uninteresting. All in all woefully average.	2003-05-24
US	38855113	R9SF5LIT6HT0J	0061080780	26193415	A Bed of Spices: Bed of Spices, A (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	UNBEARABLY WONDERFUL!!!...	OH MY..You know how sometimes you find a rare book and it just hits you that it is going to be amazing?? Well..\\"Bed of Spices\\" is one of those rare gems..I am telling you this story had me wild. I ABSOLUTELY LOVED Solomon and Rica. When I found out what the conflict in this book was..I have to admit I was a bit worried...I just couldnt see how it was going to work out..infact, at one point I was so wildly frustrated and worried that Rica and Solomon wouldnt be together , that I flipped ahead to the ending just to make sure..this is something that I have NEVER done before, but in this case I just couldnt take it and had to reassure myself. \\"Bed of Spices\\" is without a doubt a definite keeper. It may be a little hard to come by, but believe me it is sooo worth the search. PLEASE DO NOT PASS UP THE CHANCE TO READ THIS UNBELIEVABLY BEAUTIFUL AND EMOTIONAL LOVE STORY!	2003-05-21
US	38855113	R587N4W33XG1H	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	4	2	2	N	N	loved it!........(4 1/2 stars)	\\"Simply Irresistible\\" was a fantastic read! It was unbelievably fast paced..I wasnt bored for a second..the story sucked me in and then..poof! suddenly it was done..I was so wrapped up I couldnt put it down. I LOVED Georgeanne and John together. I think that they were portrayed in such a way that made them come across as being very realistic. I will admit that at times I wanted to strangle them both, particularly John, but in the end I was completely satisfied...\\"Simply Irresistable\\" may not be as fabulous as \\"See Jane Score\\"...but close  :o)	2003-05-20
US	38855113	RD7TUC9EUTCVW	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Damn..this man made me want to be bitten!!	I LOVED this book. This is my second read by Miss Kenyon..DEFINITELY NOT my last!! MY GOD!! Kyrian was sooo delish I could have died!! amanda was his perfest match. I loved this story...yes it was totally unbelievable,but thats the fun of it! I really enjoyed revisiting with Julian and Grace from &quot;Fantasy Lover&quot; as well..its always fun to see what is happening with past favorite characters....I highly recommend this!! Its soo entertaining!	2003-05-19
US	38855113	R1PDWRQJYLVJHY	0553293257	106452017	Rendezvous	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not Quick's best...	First of all....I looove Amanda Quick, but this book just failed to move me..for the life of me I could not understand what Augusta saw in Harry. I was far more interested in Peter and Claudia. Harry was way too domineering. I struggled to finish this book... Not awful, but not great either..medoiocre at best.	2003-05-19
US	38855113	R205MCRSI12H55	0505523426	124808605	The Changeling Bride	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A delightful story!!...(4 1/2 stars)	Wow! What fun!! This is the first book that I have had the pleasure to read by Lisa Cach. Im so glad that I have discovered her. \\"The Changeling Bride\\" was so much fun! The lovescenes in this book were some of the most erotic that I have ever read..whoa!!I would definitely recommend it without hesitation. It is a wonderful way to wile away an afternoon...this is a story that is not to be missed!!	2003-05-08
US	38855113	R2IFK9YGSYXU59	0312968140	623813379	Portrait Of My Heart	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Worth reading....(3 1/2 stars)	&quot;Portrait of My Heart&quot; was a fun read. I enjoyed the characters very much. I have never read its prequel &quot;Where Roses Grow Wild&quot;, but after being introduced to them in this story I find that Im curious and may have to go back and read Edward and Pegeen's story as well. While I found this book to be enjoyable..it isnt a keeper for me. First of all I found it bothersome that while we are told that the characters do in fact love eachother, they never actually get around to telling one another..this is a small thing I realize, but it bothered me regardless. I also felt that towards the middle it dragged a bit and that the tension and the conflict that held the story together was so annoying because if these people had only communicated to eachother a bit more it could have been avoided..but then there wouldnt have been a story at all ...all in all a fun read, but not my favorite.	2003-05-07
US	38855113	R1CH858IZ4FNA4	1551669498	660625217	Girls Night (STP - Mira)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Not bad, but not what I had hoped for...	&quot;Girls Night&quot; had its charms, but it failed to really hold my attention. I found that I was flipping forward again and again to see how much more I had left to read. I felt that the sub plot overshadowed the romance. I had a very hard time connecting with Jillene and especially Vince. I did however absolutely love Jillene's daughters Claire and Faye. Vince's father Al was also a delight with his lady love Ianella. &quot;Girls Night&quot; was certainly not a bad read, but I wouldnt necessarily recommend it.	2003-05-05
US	38855113	R28LR5T8D68QGV	0743442725	662355506	The Art of Seduction	Books	3	1	1	N	N	fast paced fun...(3 1/2 stars)	\\"The Art of Seduction\\" was really a great book..I enjoyed the characters very much. Dominick was to die for. This book also was INCREDIBLY steamy....so ..you may be wondering then why I only gave it 3 and 1/2 stars..well one word..Parris. While I enjoyed her very much, her behavior grew tiresome, I could understand where she was coming from, but after awhile, she started to wear on me with all of her excuses. Also..the Lady Scruples plot was barely developed..I honestly couldnt see why it was even thrown in there...it basically felt like it was just added to cause a bit more conflict here and there..I also found myself wondering at Parris and Gwens behavior considering the days in which they wete living. Put aside these few quibbles I had with this book though and its a fun read. I only wish that Jason and Gwens relationship had been given more attention.	2003-05-01
US	38855113	R2LLJGWC2SNPNX	1551665344	131807925	Horsemasters Daughter (MIRA)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worth reading.....	\\" The Horsemasters Daughter\\" was a good book, however it took a long while for the story to grab hold of me...it sort of felt like it was split into 2 separate stories...first at the island and then later at Albion. I liked Eliza well enough, but I had a hard time connecting with Hunter. Honestly my favorite character was Hunters 9 year old son, Blue. This was a worthwhile read, and though I would have liked to have seen more of them, it was a pleasure to revisit with Ryan and Isadora from \\"The Charm School\\" I cant say that this book made it to my keepers list, but I have to admit  that this story had an extremely satisfying ending that left me smiling.	2003-04-29
US	38855113	R2XGJOH4MDJGP7	0451205154	741150351	Thunder and Roses (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Loved it!! ( 4 1/2 stars)	Wow!! What a book!! I ABSOLUTELY LOVED Nicholas and Clare. They were so unbelievable together. Nicholas was UNBEARABLY sexy. I cannot wait to dive in and read the other books in this series. I have actually already read Michaels story, but Im looking forward to learning more about Lucien and Rafe. This is DEFINITELY worth reading..I recommend it ...Mary jo Putney is brilliant!	2003-04-28
US	38855113	R3CHF95ANCVNVQ	0505524228	785048359	Stuck With You (Time of Your Life)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	eh........	&quot;Stuck With You&quot; was o.k. The idea for the story was a cute one, but I thought that the characters were woefully underdeveloped and some of the dialogue and situations were so cheesy I couldnt help but cringe. This is the only book that I have ever experienced by this author, and while I wont say it was awful, I will say that it just wasnt for me. Mediocre at best.	2003-04-26
US	38855113	R25LD80X8DNCYO	0451410157	501769629	Sweet Nothings	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Im shocked at all of these negative reviews!!	I Loved this book!! Jake was an absolutely AWESOME hero. I adored the way he responded to Molly. I will admit that at times Molly was frustrating..but that is what made her so real..she was ABUSED for years!!! All of the deep seeded feelings and insecurities that came along with that ill treatment cannot possibly disappear overnight!!! Also, I found it a bit wild that Jake liked all of her dimples as well, but the point is that he loved her..ALL OF HER..for who she was...why is it so unbelievable that a man would like a curvy woman?? Its not...it happens, and in this case..even though Jake was a fox..it was totally believable. I adored this book..my only reason for not giving it 5 stars is because i felt that it could have had a bit shaved off from the middle. Other than that...LOVELY!! I definitely recommend it!	2003-04-25
US	38855113	R21WTRSE33RGCP	0440236746	76364752	Bridal Favors	Books	5	1	1	N	N	FUN, FUN, FUN!!!!!!!	Oh did I LOOOOVE this book!! The story was fun and the setting as well, but what really got me were the characters...especially Justin!! He was so unbelievably adorable, sexy as hell and appealingly rumpled!! I just wanted to eat him up!! I loved witnessing his and Evie's exhanges..all of their delightful bantering!! This book had some fantastic dialogue..Im telling you this is going on  my keepers list for sure...Girls, DONT PASS THIS ONE UP!!!	2003-04-24
US	38855113	RDSCYN4909YPS	0671026836	275845431	Indiscretion (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Fast Paced Delight!!!	\\"Indiscretion\\" was such a fun read!!! I absolutely LOVED the characters Anne and Patrick. Patrick was so hysterical as her \\"butler\\"..I read this in a flash..it was so engaging I didnt want to put it down!! What a refreshingly fun tale!! I definitely recommend it!	2003-04-24
US	38855113	R33KMZSJ67DGBR	0451408020	700133089	Forbidden Magic	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A fun, lighthearted read........	&quot;Forbidden Magic&quot; was such a delight to read!! This book was full of colorful characters. I LOVED Sax and Meg together. What a sweet story. This book didnt make my keepers list, but it is DEFINITELY a fun way to pass an afternoon..I would recommend it it without hesitation.	2003-04-21
US	38855113	RYXWLEZGUZ30U	0312954212	833302189	Tully	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Not my favorite.....	First of all..I have to say that I LOVE Paullina Simons....if you havent yet read \\"The Bronze Horseman\\"..I suggest you run out and pick it up..ok..on to \\"Tully\\"..this story started out sooo strong, I felt for Tully and her friends..I was rooting for them and loving this book..but then somewhere along the way I got fed up. First of all this book could stand to have about 50 to 100 pages shaved off..but thats not even the main prob that I had with it..I just COULD NOT STAND TULLY!! She was so selfish and so heartless it made me sick to the stomach. My God...I was so sick of her feeling sorry for herself all of the time when all she seemed to do was flit around TREATING EVERYONE IN HER PATH LIKE COMPLETE DIRT. She did not deserve the love of any of those men..Robin especially..she just played with him all of the time.....and she had the gull to be upset that he had another relationship on the side?? What a witch!!! I could write about this forever...all in all..this could have been a great book..it sure started out with promise, but in the end it just left me with a bad taste in my mouth...I woudnt recommend it.	2003-04-12
US	38855113	R1GFGB555Y42TO	0552132640	965065358	Rivals	Books	5	2	2	N	N	...I love it!!	WOW!! I love Jilly Cooper..\\"Rivals\\" was so fabulous!!! I adored Rupert and Taggie..the tension building waiting and waiting for it to work out with them was unbearable!!!! I loved this story and all of the colorful characters!! What fun to see so many of the familiar faces from \\"Riders\\"!! I highly recommend this..what an entertaining read with an unbelievably satisfying ending!!! READ IT!!!	2003-04-07
US	38855113	R13EJFGWKWPDH3	0670894710	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Different and fun..	\\"Bitten\\" is the first book that I have read of its kind,. Wow!! What a book. Definitely different. I found that I had a hard time liking Elena..but that was what was so great about her ..she was real and she was strong. Though i will say that I will never understand how it was so upsetting to her to live with the Pack...my God!! To be surrounded by all of those hot men who just coddeled you all day long!!! Im there!!! Clay was so sexy and I loved his devotion to Elena even though he didnt always make the right decisions regarding how he should handle things between them. I will say though at Nick was my fave..OH MY!! WHat a house full of men!! Whew!! Anyways, Id recommend this book..it is definitely different and entertaining, though I will tell you now that if you are at all offended by violence, then this is not the book for you. Oh and one last thing...I LOOOVE THE FRONT COVER!	2003-04-05
US	38855113	R23P1NKHHQQCLN	0515134899	385176147	Body Check (New York Blades)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	&quot;Body Check&quot; was a sweet book..it was entertaining, fast paced and funny..however I just couldnt seem to connect very well with the characters...I liked Janna and Ty well enough..but I didnt love them..I also found it frustrating that we saw them more seperate than actually together. Lots of times their scenes together were just mentioned ..as if the character was remembering that they spent time together, but we werent there to witness it...because of this, I had a hard time caring about them as a couple. I will say that Lou was a hysterical and endearing character as Janna's boss, and the fact that there is a follow up book has me curious. All in all a charming read, but not my favorite.	2003-04-03
US	38855113	R157UQEAILXRTD	B00008MNW0	177141418	The Bronze Horseman: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	5 stars does not even begin to cover it....	Thats it.....THIS IS MY FAVORITE BOOK OF ALL TIME. I thought that it couldnt get any better than \\"Outlander\\"..my God was I wrong! \\"The Bronze Horseman\\" is absolutely the most consuming, overwhelming, brilliant story I have EVER gotten my hands on..I am telling you I could not put this book down..yet at the same time, I would force myself to stop reading so that I could make it last longer!!! I have just one thing to say about this book..BUY IT!!!!!!!!!! Girls..a little warning....please..buy \\"Tatiana and Alexander\\" asap..it is the follow up book to \\"The Bronze Horseman\\"..it is available on amazon U.K. The ending to TBH will make you insane..believe me..you'll want the follow up story!! ENJOY!	2003-03-29
US	38855113	R2YMGAN36HPCHL	1551664917	66831105	The Charm School	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	&quot;The Charm School&quot; was not at all what I had expected it to be...I really enjoyed this story, but for various reasons I felt somewhat disconnected to the characters. Because of this, I couldnt rate it at more than 3 and 1/2 stars. I didnt feel that the physical descriptions of the characters were thorough enough..especially in the case of Ryan. I also had a hard time feeling their love..it almost felt forced a bit...I will say that this book had some of the most romantic and original lovescenes.. I adored the fact that the first couple were made up of nothing but a single kiss...but OOOO what kisses they were!! This was a nice story and Im looking forward to learning more about Hunter in &quot;The Horsemaster's Daughter&quot;	2003-03-24
US	38855113	R30OB1IO2ADLQL	0804119503	938459104	The Trouble with Mary	Books	3	4	6	N	N	eh........	I was really looking forward to reading &quot;The trouble With Mary&quot;..but I have to say that I was left disappointed. I just couldnt get into the characters..and I found that their relationship lacked chemistry and was too rushed to be believable. This was an ok story, but I dont think Id buy another Millie Criswell.	2003-03-22
US	38855113	R2YE88MZHPKTP3	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Girls, Im loving Rachel Gibson!!!!!	Ok, OK, so this was no \\"See Jane Score\\" , but oh was it fun!! Rachel Gibson is a new find for me and Im soo excited about it!! What a delightful author!! I absolutely loved Gabrielle..she was sooo likeable...I was rooting for her from start to finish..I will say that at times Joe drove me crazy, but for the most part I adored him as well..this was a thoroughly enjoyable book and I would recommend it without hesitation!!	2003-03-20
US	38855113	RCT98ZJA3J5LD	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	2	3	N	N	ABSOLUTELY PERFECT!!!!!	I can honestly say that I cannot remember the last time I read a book that I loved this much. I loved Jane...she was so real, and Luc was sexy as hell AND a hockey player..it just doesnt get any better. This story was witty, fast paced and thoroughly delightful. I am so excited that I have discovered Rachel Gibson..this was my first book from her..i am definitely going to jump at the oppotunity to purchase more of her brilliant stories...girls, this is DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!!	2003-03-07
US	38855113	RLUF1VF3SKNA2	0553584367	865755988	2 books in 1: Dream of Me and Believe in Me	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Dream of Me......	Ive only read the first installment of this trilogy thus far, but I have to say that I enjoyed it immensely. Wolf was soooo sexy, and I liked the fact that although Cymbra was delicate, she wasnt helpless. The lovescenes were steamy and frequent, but what really stood out was when I was able to just sit back and enjoy watching them get to know one another.The food-fighting scene was one that I will never forget..one of the funniest Ive read in a long while. I would highly recommend reading this..I look forward to diving into Believe in Me next...	2003-02-09
US	38855113	R3AYE5ZCY1BT7Q	0425156877	488840472	My Sweet Folly	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A book definitely worth reading.....	\\"My Sweet Folly\\" was an interesting read. It opens with these wonderfully sweet letters, and it twists and turns into something completely unexpected. The love scenes in this book were extremely different..there was so much tension between the H/H..it was unbearably erotic and almost desperate when they came together.....I would have given this book 5 stars in a flash, but I feel that the relationship between Folie and Robert was pushed aside too many times to focus on other aspects of the plot..I felt that the book would have been better paced if about 50 pages were shaved off. Also...regarding Melinda...I would have liked for there to have been scenes between her and her \\"suitor\\".All in all, this was really a great read..if you like Laura Kinsale this book is very typical of her..it doesnt disappoint..and the epilogue couldnt be sweeter.	2003-02-07
US	38855113	R3NKCVH16PCA5J	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another Winner from Kleypas!!!	I have to tell you..Lisa Kleypas has been an \\"auto- buy\\" for me ever since I discovered her when I read \\"Suddenly you\\". My Favorite book of hers has always been \\"Dreaming of You\\", but wow...now that Ive read \\"Worth Any Price\\", I have to say its a toss up! I absolutely LOVED this book..I was sucked into the story at page one and I never looked back...Nick Gentry was so unbelievably sexy!!! My God!...What a fox..I was intrigued by him when he was introduced in \\"Lady Sophias Lover\\",and I was hoping that he would get his own story....whew!!! Hes even more delicious than I thought hed be!!!! Please do read this book..you wont be disappointed...I have to say I think its one of Kleypas' best!...	2003-02-07
US	38855113	R2IZKAN7TZAMBI	0440216516	79164443	A Basket of Wishes	Books	4	1	2	N	N	FUN, FUN, FUN!!!!!!!	\\"Basket of Wishes\\" is definitely a book that I will not soon forget..The love story was unbelievably sweet...and sooo funny...you cannot help but laugh out loud while enjoying it....I would have gladly given this story 5 stars, however, I found Jourdian's temper tantrums to be rather tiresome, but all in all, a great read.	2003-01-30
US	38855113	R32JKNJZZP4CCH	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	I discovered Gaelen a few months back when I read her book \\"The Pirate Prince\\"...Since then I've devoured each book that she has written..I was soooo excited to read Jacinda's and Billy's story....Billy was soo romantic..so much more than I had imagined him to be..this book could have easily been a 5 star read,but Jacinda just seemed a bit too flat..not mature enough ..I felt that they werent adequately matched, but putting that niggle aside....this is definitely a must read for any fan of this series..I'm telling you Im dying due to anticipation ...I CANNOT wait for Alec's book!!!!!!	2003-01-30
US	38855113	R1Z3P1QEIRQIIL	0385336764	983256815	The Fiery Cross (Outlander)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	Let me just begin by saying that I enjoyed this book very much...my rating of three and a half stars is not to say that in comparison to every other book that Ive read that \\"The Fiery Cross\\" was little more than mediocre...but I rated it 3 1/2 stars compared to the previous books in the Outlander series...This story was much slower in pace....there are a ton of loose strings that have me eagerly awaiting the next installment......I could read about Jamie Fraser forever....Definitely a must read for any Outlander fan...just be sure to read these books in order!!	2003-01-27
US	38855113	R35KBXGLM3Z9JZ	0553288555	803262814	The Wind Dancer	Books	3	1	9	N	N	a letdown....	After reading \\"The Wind Dancer\\"..I cant understand how it has received such rave reviews..this book held little appeal for me..I struggled to finish this story..However, I will admit that I really enjoyed Lorenzo... but I hated the way things turned out with Caterina!!! Anyways, not terrible, but not great either..I dont think Id buy another book by Iris Johansen.	2002-11-24
US	38855113	RVEE1WPCM4PC1	044022425X	173145556	The Drums of Autumn	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Still going strong....	\\"Drums of Autumn\\" was a fantastic book...though at times sad... I can tell you that in order to apprecaite this story, you MUST read it as part of a series. While I enjoyed getting to know Roger and Brianna better, I have to admit that a part of me mourns the youth of Jamie and Claire..all of those years that they lost!!! Well, at least theyre together now...another thing that got to me was the decision that young Ian comes to in this book..however I cant deny that it was completely in his character to do as he did....anyways, if you love the \\"Outlander\\" series as much as I do..then you really MUST read this book...I think youll be glad you did.	2002-11-21
US	38855113	R1HJ7LH7JO2GFR	0380767406	968197870	A Rose at Midnight (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	WOW........	&quot;A Rose at MIdnight&quot; is not your basic romance. The story of Nicholas and Ghislaine is a darkly beautiful one that is sure to move you. I enjoyed the secondary characters of Tony and Ellen as well. I had a few complaints about how the end was somewhat thrown together, but all in all this was a great read.	2002-11-16
US	38855113	R1UI28MGZG1G9Q	0671744208	407222975	Castles	Books	1	2	5	N	N	So bland, I couldnt even finish it.....	I have read a lot of Julie Garwood's work, and for the longest time she was on my list of favorite authors. Im sorry to say that that is no longer the case. Lately every book that I have read by Ms. Garwood has been mediocre at best. \\"Castles\\" was just awful..I actually liked Colin , but Alesandra was just a whiny, childish wimp. I normally force myself to never let a book go unfinished, but this one just wasnt worth the effort. I'm sorry to say that I think my days of Garwood are over.	2002-11-15
US	38855113	RSRS7CYW9U7C8	0449004848	814349004	The Seduction (Notorious)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Whew!!!...What a scorcher!!!	I loved this book. The characters had amazing chemistry and I enjoyed the fact that there was not an external conflict...the H/H had their own underlying issues that kept them apart..I found this made their coming together that much more emotional. While \\"The Seduction\\" is a great read, it's not for everyone...there are some seriously explicit lovescenes in it...however, Ms. Jordan manages to balance this with wonderful emotion..this is truly a fabulous read and I would recommend it without hesitation.	2002-11-13
US	38855113	RR3FUB505ZHY0	0553578960	468818654	The Accidental Bride (Bride Trilogy)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not what I expected.....	\\"The Accidental Bride\\" is a book that had fantastic potential, but I'm sorry to say it didnt quite live up to it. I absolutely loved the character of Phoebe..she was someone that I would love to have as a friend. I enjoyed Cato as well, however, I found myself wanting to shake him due to his sometimes maddening unresponsiveness. This book could have easily earned 4 stars from me, but I felt that there needed to be more emphasis on their relationship and not so much on the surrounding storyline...I also found it somewhat disturbing that Cato was Olivia's father....that would make Phoebe her stepmother... Anyways...not a bad book, but I wouldnt necessarily recommend it.	2002-11-13
US	38855113	R23UMXIKMEDLVK	0843940425	863163490	Frankly, My Dear (Timeswept)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Not my favorite.....	&quot;Frankly My Dear&quot; was a sweet book, but not much more. I will admit that it had it's moments, but some of the dialogue was sooo corny it made me cringe. This book was for the most part set in 1845, however, it had a distinctly modern feel to it..even the characters who werent from 1996 acted as if they were. I usually really enjoy Sandra Hill, but this book was just too cheesy for me..not terrible, but not great either. Mediocre at best.	2002-11-12
US	38855113	R30OF3HJWMX9Y0	0843944463	561149778	Mine to Take (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Embarassing cover...Great book. :)	OK....you've just gotta love Dara Joy..even if her writing style isnt exactly your taste, there is no denying that her stories are wildly entertaining. \\"Mine to Take\\" is the 3rd in the series that began with \\"Knight of a Trillion Stars\\" and \\"Rejar\\". This was my least favorite of the 3..thats not to say it wasnt a great book, but come on..it's hard to beat \\"Rejar\\"!!! I will tell you now that there are some seriously sexy lovescenes in this book..wooohooo..open your windows ladies..you'll need that blast of cold air to keep your head clear...whew!! \\"Mine to Take\\" is a book that I would recommend..and if youre into this series..it's a DEFINITE MUST READ...I am waiting with bated breath for Traed's story...I just KNOW his will be soooooo good!!!	2002-11-11
US	38855113	RJBS7SKOOPJ2G	0425180336	619951253	This is all I ask (de Piaget Family)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Worth reading.....	\\"This Is All I Ask\\" was really a very sweet story. I enjoyed watching the H/H fall in love. The secondary characters in this book were charming as well. I guess my main problem with this book was that the bedroom door was firmly shut..now, I'm not saying that I needed any heavy duty explicit sex scenes...I guess I just think it would have been nice to be there when they discovered eachother..especially the first time. Anyways, this was a good book regardless. I would recommend it.	2002-11-10
US	38855113	R1J43T2667ACHY	0451406141	162145347	Shattered Rainbows	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	I enjoyed &quot;Shattered Rainbows&quot;,however, Its definitely not my favorite Putney. I read this book without reading the previous books in the series. It held its own, but I think maybe I would have appreciated it more if I had experienced the stories that preceded it as well. All in all, not a bad book, but not one that I would re- read.	2002-11-07
US	38855113	R1J4A3CB7ED94F	0380776049	403225024	To Love a Dark Lord	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Actually, 4 and 1/2 stars......	\\"To Love a Dark Lord\\" is my first Anne Stuart book. I have to tell you..I'm thrilled that I have discovered her and I cant wait to dive in and read her other stories!! Girls, This book was fabulous!!!..I enjoyed the storyline and the H/H immensely. There were also some of the most wonderful secondary characters in this book!! Killoran is so romantically tortured and Emma is his perfect match..I was up so late reading this..I couldnt bear to put it down!! DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!!!!	2002-11-07
US	38855113	R1MARDJ6U4I24O	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	5 stars just doesnt cut it.....	\\"Paradise\\" has to be one of the most amazing books that I have ever read!! I absolutely ADORED Matt and Meredith. Matt was so sexy and soooo in love with her!!! And Meredith has to be one of my all time favorite heroines...sometimes she was so naive, I couldnt help but belly laugh. I love the way that Judith McNaught spends the time to let you REALLY get to know the characters...I cant say enough about this book...everything about \\"Paradise\\" screams \\"KEEPER\\"!!!!! RUN to snatch this one up...you WONT be sorry!! :)	2002-11-05
US	38855113	R5PT743QXOTOI	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	5	3	5	N	N	All I can say is...WOW!!!	What a deliciously romantic story!!! OOOOOh, Girls...you CANNOT pass this one up. Christian and Maddy were unbelievable together...Christian's frustration is so heartbreaking, there are times when you can actually FEEL it. I will admit that at times I wanted to slap Maddy, but I guess I can see where the drastic changes in her circumstances might upset her..her reaction was definitely understandable. A MUST READ!!! So what if it's out of print??!! It's worth the search!! :)	2002-11-03
US	38855113	R33YWCPM2RN4KC	0380761319	790779890	The Shadow and the Star	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An excellent read!!!!	\\"The Shadow and the Star\\" is a wonderful story. While this book may be a bit hard to come by since its out of print, it is definitely worth the search. Samuel is one of the most original heroes ever...he and Leda are so sweet together...I loved watching them discover eachother. This is DEFINITELY A MUST READ...GIRLS..BUY THIS BOOK!!!	2002-11-03
US	38855113	R2AATL77B943N4	0380769530	426927159	Untamed (Medieval Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Actually, 4 and 1/2 stars......	Let me tell you....I have been in a kind of \\"great book\\" draught lately that has had me rather worried...I felt like I'd never find a \\"keeper\\" again..well..my search is over!! \\"Untamed\\" was SUCH a great book!!! I enjoyed the characters so much..they had such wonderful chemistry! I would have given this story a 5 star rating, but a few things got under my skin. I think what bothered me most was some of the embarassingly purple prose..also..I couldnt stand the constant references to the falcons...my only other complaint was that Dominic's jealousy became a bit tiresome at times..now...disregard all of those negative things I just wrote and run out and but this book! I think you'll be glad you did!	2002-11-02
US	38855113	R4E2CJFPBSBKU	0380790890	243725613	A Well Pleasured Lady: Well Pleasured #2 (Well Pleasured Series)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not my favorite.....	\\"A Well Pleasured Lady\\" was certainly not a bad read, however it wasnt really all that wonderful either. I didnt really feel that I connected all that well with the characters..its not that they were poorly written, but that I just didnt like them. I found myself to be far more interested in Mary's brother and her cousin Ian. I also wasnt too thrilled with Mary and Sebastian's first love scene..I dont normally have a problem with a \\"Forced Seduction\\"..but this crossed the line a bit..not very sexy..One more thing bothered me..I know this may sound silly, but it annoyed me immensely that Mary is described as having blonde hair, but on the cover's step back she is portrayed as having this wildly long red hair..not a big deal I realize..but it bothered me nonetheless...Whoever chooses the cover for the book should at least know what the characters look like!! All in all not too great..if you must read it I suggest borrowing someone elses..or a UBS.	2002-11-01
US	38855113	R1OXBMGPJI5ZRP	0451408276	570564924	Silken Threads	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	This was an enjoyable read...it moved along nicely and it had an interesting plot. However....I didnt give it a higher score for a few reasons..<BR>1. While I did connect well with the characters..I felt that we only really had a chance to know them well separately ...it seems to me that they spent more time thinking about eachother rather than interacting. For this reason, I found that when they finally came together I didnt care as much as I would have liked to.<BR>2.I found it highly unlikely that Olive's story would end up as it did.<BR>3. There were just to many convenient happenings at the ending to make it fall into place.<BR>On the other hand, this was definitely a unique plot idea..and I didnt guess the mystery until it was revealed.<BR>Im not saying that &quot;Silken Threads&quot; was a bad book..infact I've already ordered it's sequel...All I'm saying is that it fell short of being a keeper.<BR>All in all...not bad, but not fantastic either	2002-10-31
US	38855113	R28GJFWA4SIGI8	0061087068	946204459	The Cad	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	&quot;The Cad&quot; began wonderfully..I love a book where we dont have to wait long for the H/H to meet...I really was into this at first and was so excited because I thought that I had found a keeper...well, imagine my disappointment then when this story fell flat on it's face a little more than half way through...There was a huge separation between the H/H that had me desperately skimming ahead to see when they would finally be together again..also, there were many secondary characters in this book that instead of making things more interesting just annoyed me...&quot;The Cad&quot; wasnt awful...but it was definitely not more than mediocre at best.	2002-10-29
US	38855113	R35C8UBXYO1QWM	0380812967	239720478	The Indiscretion	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This had potential...but didnt live up to it.....	&quot;The Indiscretion&quot; was an ok book...when I first read the back, I was excited to read it..I love a book where two people get stuck together....this story started out well and was fast paced, however, after they got back to civilization, the whole thing just fell flat. The ending was too wordy and I found that there were a few loose ends that could have used tying up..such as Liddy's relationship with Rose. All in all not awful, but not fantastic either.	2002-10-27
US	38855113	R372949T3H0QL	0440217563	685230282	Voyager: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	I have decided that I am in love with Jamie Fraser!	Okay..so I realize that Jamie isnt real, but how can you not love him? The things he says to Claire kill me..and that accent!! oooohhh!!! Anyways..this is the first book in the Outlander series that I have not given 5 stars...that's not to say that it wasnt an excellent book..it was, but it failed to move me as deeply as the 2 previous books. I was bothered by some of the things that happened during their separation..one of these things being revealed in the chapter \\"Daddy\\" I wont give away what happened, but I just was REALLY sick with Jamie during this section of the book. Also..I found their reunion to be lacking, but maybe that's just me...on the other hand..I really enjoyed the fact that we were able to get into Jamie's head in this book..before, we only knew him through Claire, but in Voyager we're given a closer look. Speaking of Claire, as much as I like her..she's a bit of a B**ch..I didnt care for how judgemental she was towards certain people because of their looks...also...cant these people have even one full day of peace? Anyways...This is definitely worth reading..while I'll admit that I'm going to take a break from this series for awhile..I'm most certainly going to keep on reading till the end...	2002-10-26
US	38855113	R2NGRKCX9S41RM	0440215625	983256815	Dragonfly in Amber: A Novel (Outlander)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	OH. MY. GOD.	BRILLIANT!!!! I have to tell you..I go through books like wild,but I dont think that I will ever love a character as much as Jamie Fraser...IMHO he is absolutely thee most enthralling character I have ever had the pleasure to experience...WHEW!! What a book!! A word to the wise...have tissues handy..there is one section of this story in particular that is completely heartwrenching...also, have \\" Voyager\\" ready to read right away or the ending to \\"Dragon fly in Amber\\" will leave you wildly frustrated! DEFINITELY A MUST READ!!!!!	2002-10-22
US	38855113	RIKANQMBYKVNW	0425184692	235273732	The Seduction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Brilliant Story....	\\"The Seduction\\" is a book that I have had for quite some time, but for one reason or another had never gotten around to reading....Im so glad that I came upon it the other day...what a treasure!! Funnily enough, the book didnt have me in its clutches until AFTER the initial successful \\"seduction\\" took place...I adored their first lovemaking scene..it wasnt the sex specifically, but all of the wonderfully intimate \\"pillow talk\\" that we were able to look in on...very different from other \\"sex scenes\\" that I have read...very romantic and tender. I was also pleasantly suprised to see that,at one point, this book took a turn in a totally unpredictable direction(Something that I think any lover of the romance genre would be hard pressed to say about the vast majority of other books.)There was also the mysterious character \\"Robert Dovenby\\" that I am hoping will have his own book!!!!This was really a wonderful story..DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!	2002-10-17
US	38855113	RF154N8QA2NN5	0786219890	376589566	The Last Hellion (Five Star Standard Print Romance)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	I really enoyed &quot; The Last Hellion&quot;. I found Vere's sweetness and that fact that he was embarassed by his sentimental side and his kindess to be adorable!! I really enjoyed his and Lydia's sparring..Also, it was sweet to see Bertie and Tamsin get together...I loved the fact that Sebastian and Jess were included in this book, but I wished that there had been some more scenes with Jess..we didn't really get to see her at all...Oh well...not my favorite story, but definitely not a bad one either....Charming.	2002-10-13
US	38855113	R3IWSAC5C6X3R6	0312288352	287100403	The Tea Rose: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book has made my list of top 3 Favorites.....	\\"The Tea Rose\\"...Wow!! What an unbelievably touching story!<BR>The characters in this book were so well developed and created so lovingly, you couldnt help but get yourself involved. Fiona was admirable..This woman suffered more hardships througout her life than 1 person can handle, yet she remaind optimistic..she was a fighter through and through...So many of the characters in this book were inspiring..the way they did what they had to do to survive..how they loved one another...speaking of love...Joe and Fiona were beautiful together...and I promise you that with the way this story is written..there will be times when you are so frustrated, that you will just want to rip your hair out..but oh....by the time youre finished reading you'll see that it's all been worth the wait...I cant say enough about \\"The Tea Rose\\"..DEFINITELY A MUST READ!	2002-10-09
US	38855113	R1VU2BOK597GNR	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Didnt live up to its potential.....	After reading the letter to Drustan and Gwen at the end of  &quot;Kiss of the Highlander&quot;, I absolutely could not wait to read &quot;The Dark Highlander&quot;....Dageus and Chloe were lukewarm at best together...not that I didnt like them..I did..I just didnt think that their relationship was well developed enough..I struggled to finish this book...too much weird stuff happening and not enough romance...not a bad book, but not for me.	2002-10-05
US	38855113	RO6AYUVOVRDVF	0440235685	541962104	The Wild Rose of Kilgannon	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A word to the wise: READ "KILGANNON" FIRST!!!!!!!!!!!	Oh MY,SUCH a good book!!!!! Perfect continuation of \\"Kilgannon\\".<BR>There has only ever been one book that has made me cry...\\"Outlander\\"..well...Add \\"The Wild Rose of Kilgannon\\" to that list because this book had me weeping like mad throughout..Could Mary and Alex's story be more romantic??? They are so in love..and I'm not talking \\"fluffy\\" love...I'm talking the kind of love that overcomes any obstacle...and believe me there are quite a few of those within this story...The characters were unbelievably well developed ...Mary was awesome...she was so in love with her man, and so strong...nothing could stop her!!! I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!! It had me laughing, gasping, crying, and pulling my hair out...I'm exhausted!!!! Girls...get this book!!!! DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!!!!	2002-10-03
US	38855113	RGNXCSJUXB1JY	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Brilliant!!!!!	OH.MY.GOD........Judith McNaught does it again!!! \\"Kingdom of Dreams\\" was unbelievably wonderful!!!!!!! I was wild while reading it....feeling happy one moment and frantically frustrated the next!!! Girls...you MUST READ this!!!!!!!! I absolutely adored Royce...and while I'll admit that at times Jenny had me practically ripping my hair out..she was wonderful as well...Oh and how I looooved Auntie Elinor and Arik!! They were a riot together!!! I loooove this book...Judith Mcnaught is fabulous!!!! DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!!!!!!!	2002-10-02
US	38855113	RR90UN8YLA00	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	&quot;Ransom&quot; started out very strongly with a very well developed plot and likeable characters,however, I felt that once Gillian and Brodick met, the story fell flat....I believed this for a couple of reasons...the first reason being...All of the attention was focused on the development of the plot, but we were rushed into Gillian's and Brodick's relationship...for this reason, I didn't care overlymuch about the outcome of their love....But my main problem with this book was that we didnt really get to know Bridgid and Ramsey...I was so interested in them..I feel that they should have gotten their own book...all in all ..not a bad read...there were some definite perks..for instance, I adored Alec..he was so sweet...and I really enjoyed Bridgid with her myriad proposals.....This book had such promise, but there were just too many loose ends when it was all over and done with.....NOT Garwood's best.	2002-10-01
US	38855113	RGYZNL3RN329X	0380794578	129042291	A Rake's Vow (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Booooooring!!!!!!	This is my third book by Stephanie Laurens, and unfortunately...I think its my last...I have tried to like this author, but I just cant do it. \\"A Rakes Vow\\" was sooo excruciatingly slow I wasnt even able to finish it...there was no plot..its just a bunch of way too long sex scenes broken up by chatting around the breakfast table...Not worth reading...	2002-09-28
US	38855113	RWEAU0CP8IR6S	0440235677	649928419	Kilgannon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Actually, 4 and 1/2 stars......	Wow!!! First of all....let me just say...Alex could not have been a more romantic character....I adored him from the beginning..infact, I found him to be so charming, that I didnt trust him at first...but believe me..he proves himself to be VERY honorable indeed. This book started out in such a way that I was floored to discover that it was not at all what I expected...it was much more intense...I thought it was brilliant how well developed the characters were ...and I loved watching them get to know one another. The first person POV was refreshing as well, and at several points I found myself being reminded of the beloved book \\"Outlander\\"....not so much because of the story itself, but the overall tone....I cant explain it really....I would have given \\"Kilgannon\\" 5 stars in a heartbeat,however, I felt that lovescenes could have been better....I cannot stand a summarized lovescene, but this book was so excellent it didnt bother me overmuch...all in all a wonderful read.....A WARNING: buy \\"The Wild Rose of Kilgannon\\" immediately upon purchasing this book...if you dont, the ending to \\"Kilgannon\\" will leave you furious....	2002-09-27
US	38855113	RKZQIE3O7DBRG	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	SUCH a good book!!!!!	OH my did I love this!!This was my very first by Judith McNaught, and let me tell you....I was not disappointed....I'm usually a historical romance kind of girl, but this story was literally \\"Perfect\\". The letter that Zack writes to Julie!!! OOOOOOH....I must have reread that letter like a million times....The characters are unbelievably well developed.....DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!	2002-09-26
US	38855113	RMJW3WJ8XIRGB	0671705091	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	I loved \\"A Knight in Shining Armor\\"...What a romantic story...definitely not what one would label \\"fluffy\\". Can you imagine being so meant for someone that even the enormous obstacle of 4 centuries cannot stand in your way? Wow!! I would have gladly given this story 5 stars had the ending been different...however..the way this story was resolved left me so apalled and disappointed..I had to knock off 1 and 1/2 stars to make up for it...would I recommend this book? Yes...but be forewarned....it might not be exactly what you expect it to be.	2002-09-25
US	38855113	R2DPM6BIULHAHB	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	3	5	N	N	OH. MY. GOD.	\\"Fantasy Lover\\" is absolutely unlike anything that I have ever read!!!!I will be the first to admit that the plot of this book is ubelievably far-fetched, but oooh did I looove it!!!!! Girls, the chemistry between Julian and Grace was undeniable...and the story was wild!! DEFINITELY a MUST READ!!!!!	2002-09-24
US	38855113	R2U194NUHXYHAW	0505523493	761063631	The Love Potion (Time of Your Life)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fun, but not Sandra Hill's best.......	\\"The Love Potion\\" was definitely a fun book...it had some great moments..and some REALLY sexy love scenes...the book was a bit silly...but sweet...my main reason for not loving this book? Well, while I found the characters to be endearing...they just werent really \\"my type\\"...maybe thats sounds odd, but I dont know how else to explain it.....all in all.... an entertaining read...but not my favorite.	2002-09-23
US	38855113	R14H14UHK6KJJ	0451202066	354862691	Silk and Shadows	Books	5	1	2	N	N	WOW........	This book is unbelievably good...\\"Silk and Shadows\\" has so many layers...and the characters are wonderfully developed...this is not your basic \\"fluffy\\" romance!! Mikhal and Sara were perfect together..and the story!!! WOW!!! DEFINITELY a MUST read....dont pass this one up!!!!	2002-09-22
US	38855113	R3P71O9LKO3N5M	0380807270	410087216	The MacLean Groom: Highland Lairds Trilogy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Worth reading.....	It took me quite awhile to warm up to \\"The MacLean Groom\\" ....Infact, I felt that the beginning dragged horribly and I almost set it aside...I am however, very glad that I gave it a chance...Inevitably the story grew on me...the strongest point of the book would definitely be the character Rory..I adored him...He was so loving and patient.....I felt that he was way too good for Joanna...It bothered me that she was so inconsistent with him throughout the beginning of the story, but eventually she pulls it together and I ended up liking her regardless....I would like to see Lachlan and Raine paired up..I don't know if they will...but I'm hoping! Anyways..this book is worth reading..if you find yourself struggling through its start, give it a chance..I think youll be glad that you did.	2002-09-21
US	38855113	R3GZG0XTVQHWMR	0843947365	62068589	Always (Leisure historical romance)	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	&quot;Always&quot; definitely had it's moments...and I cant deny that some of it was outrageously amusing...I think the thing that bothered me most was how bossy Aric was...not to mention how Wimpy Rosamunde was made out to be....This book was fun, but dragged...I wouldnt dissuade one from reading it, but I wouldnt recommend it either.	2002-09-20
US	38855113	R2W8Y0B22VK6NB	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I LOOOOVE this book!	Oh my, Oh my, Oh my....Girls...don't miss this one! Okay...so this book wasnt nearly as intense as \\"Outlander\\" (Which just happens to be my favorite book) but who cares?! \\"Kiss of the Highlander\\" was excellent in its own right! I absolutely could not tear myself away from this story...Could Drustan be any sexier? While I'll admit that Gwen was a bit annoying at times, in the end I loved her anyway...What a wonderfully romantic story!...By the time I was finished I had experienced emotions from bursting happiness to complete frustration..Oh and I was left soooo satisfied with its outcome! DEFINITELY a MUST READ!	2002-09-20
US	38855113	R3BPCWNI9MO6VW	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This book is Beyond wonderful!!!!	OH..girls....such a good book!!!! I absolutely loved Alexandra's and Jordan's story!!!! This book was so heartwarming..I adored the characters and found myslef cheering for Alexandra immediately..I loved how she overcame her obstacles...how she befriended her enemies..this is DEFINITELY a MUST read!!!!!! Judith McNaught is quickly becoming one of my favorites!!!!	2002-09-17
US	38855113	R2W7J3T52YEPX2	0553283545	918991557	Seduction	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A fun, lighthearted read........	This is my second book by Amanda Quick...DEFINITELY not my last...what a charming Story..I love a fast paced read with silliness and sexiness combined..and  \\"Seduction\\" was just what I was in the mood for. I really enjoyed Julian and Sophy..I thought it was fabulous how she never backed down...I'm on the lookout for Anne and Daregate's story next! This really is a sweet book...I would reccomend it.	2002-09-17
US	38855113	R3VHLMEBLP8M9G	0553563335	844209901	Fairest of Them All	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not what I expected.....	When Holly the &quot;Fairest of Them All&quot; decides to disguise the beauty that she views as a curse to keep from marrying....she doesnt at all expect the dashing Austyn to step in and fight for her homely hand anyway....I think that this book had definite potential with such a quirky storyline...but I have to say, it didn't live up to my expectations for the following reasons...<BR>First of all, the beginning of the book is too drawn out ,and if Lady Holly is really as beautiful as we're led to believe...I find it hard to swallow that some short hair , stained teeth and tanned skin would disguise her from Austyn ; who claims that he would never mistake her for anyone else...Also...I can't imagine why or how Holly falls for him..we never really get a good look at him while he's pleasant..we do however, see how horrible he is to her throughout a large portion of this book...I really tried, but I just could not like Austyn...Holly was WAY too good for him....I wouldnt dissuade one from reading &quot;Fairest of Them All&quot; ,but I wouldnt recommend it either..	2002-09-06
US	38855113	RULMUXZYFJOE	0505522551	147035301	The Last Viking (Viking (Love Spell))	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Fast Paced Delight!!!!	\\"The Last Viking\\" is seriously charming. The story is silly and sexy ;it captures you immediately. The characters Rolf and \\"Merry-Death\\" were so endearing!!! It was such fun to witness Rolf's fascination over all of the modern inventions that he came across.....This is my first book by Sandra Hill..I'm so excited to have discovered her and I can't wait to read more of her stories. Don't deny yourself the pleasure!!! Read this book!!!!	2002-09-05
US	38855113	RE5FB7EKP601C	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun, lighthearted read........	\\"That Scandalous Evening\\" was a pleasure to read...I wouldnt necessarily rank it up there with my all time favorites,but let me tell you...this book had some of the hottest love scenes I've ever read....When Ransom and Jane were intimate in the maze...Oh my....and in the attic..well..don't get me started...do yourself a favor and read this story!!!!	2002-09-05
US	38855113	R14PD944UDOQ56	050552337X	964607725	Rejar (Timeswept)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This is SUCH a good book!!!	I absolutely loved this story...While I'll admit that I wasn't always happy with Rejar's behavior..He won me over regardless.<BR>This story was fast paced and had a wonderful mixture of intoxicating sexiness laced with just enough humor that will keep you glued to this book until it's end. The characters and the plot that enveloped them were undeniably outrageous....but that's the fun of it!! I wholly enoyed \\"Rejar\\"...it is DEFINITELY a worthwhile read.	2002-09-04
US	38855113	R1BMHK207VW3LA	0440223725	792718288	All Through the Night	Books	5	4	5	N	N	All I can say is...WOW!!!	What an amazing book!! I loved the plot, the characters, Ms. Brockway's writing style...everything just fell into place...and the sex scenes were sooo steamy!! WHEW!!! Jack was such a compelling mixture of strength, vulnerability, and controlled sexuality ...you just want to scoop him up from the pages and make him your own...Anne was fantastically brave and self sufficiant....I HIGHLY recommend reading this...FABULOUS story!!!!	2002-09-03
US	38855113	R1RLT2D106P9H0	038079456X	386673452	Devil's Bride (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Actually..3 1/2 stars.......	Devil's Bride..I would have given this book at least 4 stars, but there were a couple things about it that bothered me...the first thing being that I was immensely annoyed that Devil never told Honoria that he loved her...and my second reason being that it took me forever...almost until the final chapter, to finally warm to the characters....I felt very indecisive about them and their relationship...On the other hand...There was some unbelievably great writing in this book...and when Honoria pledges her love for Devil...wow!! I've read countless romances, but her declaration of love was unlike any other...like I said...GREAT writing....This wasn't a book that I would put on my keepers list, but it definitely caught my attention; I'm going to move on to the second in the series......Afterall....I can't deny that the Cynsters are wickedly sexy!!	2002-09-03
US	38855113	R3TKYHBLLPD04R	0595142451	366925365	Wanted: One Groom	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Not worth the money.....	I bought this book because of the glowing reviews that I read, and I have to say..I can't understand why it's gotten such high marks....I think that this is the most poorly written book that I have ever read. The storyline itself wasn't what bothered me..it was the complete lack of description and the unbelievably underdeveloped characters. I didn't think it was possible, but this book was actually too fast paced..I felt rushed through it. I cannot believe that this was actually published...I definitely would NOT recommend wasting your time or your money on this book.	2002-08-31
US	38855113	RW4ZZSUC1QXY1	0505522659	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Girls!  What a Guilty Pleasure!	Okay....so maybe when you read the back of this book, it sounds a bit ridiculous...and to be honest, perhaps it is....but ooooh...did I love it! The men in this book had me drooling! The story was fast paced and the characters likeable. Lorgin was not only unbelievably hot, but hysterical as well. I cannot wait to read Rejar next...I wonder...will there be a book for Traed? This is a story that I would recommend without hesitation.	2002-08-30
US	38855113	R3J6QKQB5OE8JX	0440237122	486589927	The Bride Thief	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fast Paced Delight!!!!	For reasons I can't explain, this book sat in my drawer unread for months...I came upon it and decided to glance over it real quick to see if I was in the mood to read it...I did't stand a chance of putting it down once I began..What a charmer!!! I adored this story!!! Eric was so sexy, sensitive and amusing..I loved listening to him trying to talk himself out of his feelings...and when he leaned in and told Samantha that she smelled like porridge ..I almost died!!! Speaking of Samantha...she was wonderful..I really liked that she was just a normal girl, with secret passions just like the rest of us...I loved this book..the plot and the characters within it are extremely lovable, and the ending leaves you feeling immensely satisfied...I recommend giving it a try...you won't be sorry.	2002-08-30
US	38855113	R28TQMW8M3435I	0380781433	547840624	Somewhere I'll Find You	Books	2	2	4	N	N	What a disappointment!!!!!	I am an avid fan of Lisa Kleypas...I will buy just about anything with her name on it that I can get my hands on....so when I purchased \\"Somewhere I'll Find You\\", I was very eager to get started on it..... I have this thing where I can't leave a book until I've finished it...believe me..I tried, but I couldn't do it...to put it bluntly, this book was awful. The story dragged on and on...and the characters were not at all likeable...it got to the point where I didnt even care what happened to them..I just wanted it to end..I adore Ms. Kleypas, but \\"Somewhere I'll Find You\\" is definitely NOT a story that I would recommend.	2002-08-28
US	38855113	RJP9E31V65BBB	0671702513	29402714	The Prize	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Definitely NOT Garwood's best.....	&quot;The Prize&quot; was a horrible example of what I've come to expect from Julie Garwood. Usually, I can pick up a book written by Ms. Garwood without a second thought...that is how consistently wonderful she is...well..... &quot;The Prize&quot; left me cold. I have never read a book with characters as flat in my life....If this is your first Garwood experience, and you didn't like it...please give another one of her books a try...&quot;Honor's Spendour&quot;, &quot;Saving Grace&quot;, and &quot;The Bride&quot;, for example.....now those are GREAT books and properly show off Ms. Garwood's true talent to tell a story.	2002-08-28
US	38855113	R2AHV9T7I5O86I	0553293168	675345837	Ravished	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A tortured hero....what could be better?	What is it about a tortured man that is so undeniably appealing?<BR>Well, let me tell you.....Gideon(Our hero in Ravished)is definitely appealing. Not only does Gideon have a blotched past that is responsible for his woe, but he is scarred and finds his face to be utterly repulsive. Now I ask you....is this man begging to be nurtured or what? I personally found him to be at the height of sexiness. Of course, where would he be without his wonderfully lively heroine to come rescue him from his despair? That is where Harriet comes in..I just adored her...she was always bubbling over with energy and ideas...and was always getting herself into trouble...I really enjoyed this book..I loved the way the characters related to one another.. it is a fast fun read that is definitely worth purchasing.	2002-08-26
US	38855113	R1X228554F3LTQ	0553574221	158833316	Once a Warrior	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This had potential...but didnt live up to it.....	I liked this book, but was expecting better. For one thing, I found it irritating that Ariella's identity was kept from Malcolm for so long...not until after over 100 pages did he find her out...also, while I really admired Malcolm for overcoming his hardships, I found Ariella to be rather bratty.<BR>The writing was peppered with humor that I found charming, but the characters lacked that spark that I love to watch burn between 2 people with undeniable chemistry. I wouldn't dissuade one from reading this, but I wouldnt recommend it either.	2002-08-25
US	38855113	R14E14LP34IG34	0843944382	310074431	High Energy	Books	2	6	9	N	N	eh........	This book left me cold..I don't know..maybe I've just been spoiled by other books..but ...what a disappointment! The plot to this book was thin and ridiculous..and I had no feelings at all for the characters... I will admit that it had it's  moments, but it just barely kept me interested ;if at all.<BR>Definitely not something that I would recommend.	2002-08-23
US	38855113	R2D3OYX753GAWI	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I would give this book infinite stars if I could.....	This is absolutely the most moving book I have ever had the pleasure to read!!! I have read a ton of books..and I've sighed, and I've laughed...but NEVER has a book had me in tears.<BR>Outlander wrapped me up so tightly in it's characters and rich plot....and it left me beaming by the time I was through...this book is so wonderfully descriptive and emotional, it left me breathless. Don't get me wrong..I love a good fluffy romance as much as anyone...but wow...what a refreshing change from the masses of other romances I've read...Jamie and Claire's relationship was so intense.....This , I have decided, is my favorite book!	2002-08-23
US	38855113	R3NN3SSOHHDBJ5	0767907809	834442453	Bookends: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	This book was ok....	I didn't hate this book...but I didn't love it either...it's saving grace was definitely the character &quot;Si&quot;. I did find most of the others endearing, but I've got to tell you..I often flipped ahead to see how many more pages I had until I was through...maybe it's because at heart I'm a romance junkie...or maybe its because having read other books by Jane Green I expected better......whatever the reason..I just found this book to be little more than mediocre.	2002-08-18
US	38855113	R21WAY198L5WX3	0552124869	930050864	Riders	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An excellent read	I actually found Jilly Cooper by reading books by Fiona Walker(who is brilliant by the way). Jilly's books are a little hard to come by, but boy am I glad I searched...soooo worth it. Riders was a great read...don't let the length of the book intimidate you...you'll fly through it...You are with the characters through so much and for such a span of years..that by the end...you really feel as if you know them. I definitely recommend this book..also, go out and get Fiona Walker's books as well!! French Relations and Well Groomed( In that order) are my favorites of the bunch.	2002-08-17
US	38855113	R25ONARG87RYKU	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of Garwood's best!!!!	Girls...if you like Julie Garwood....ooooh..you are going to love this!!! It is so fast paced...literally..by like page 3 I was hooked!!!! The way that Madelyne and Duncan met was sooo wonderfully romantic!!! Madelyne was so sweet and Duncan was as sexy as they come!!! This is DEFINITELY a book worth reading!! Don't pass it up!!!!	2002-08-15
US	38855113	R2A5ENNSZ3TH2A	0380794489	656635142	Lady Be Good	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A book definitely worth reading.....	This is my very first book by Susan Elizabeth Phillips...and I enjoyed every moment!!! Being that I prefer historical romances, the modern day backdrop to this book threw me off at first; I decided to give it a shot anyway...and I'm sooo glad I did!!! This book was so charming...it was full of laughs...and not only were Kenny and Emma wonderful, but the secondary characters were outstanding as well!!! I would definitely recommend this and look forward to purchasing more works by this author.	2002-08-13
US	38855113	R3T9WY31O7IAWY	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is it even possible for Gaelen Foley to write a bad book?	I adore Ms. Foley!!!!! What a talent!!! I loved this story!!! I absolutely cannot wait to read her next books!! I'm dying for Alec's story...and I have a feeling that Jacinda is going to get involved with \\"Billy Blade\\"....this should prove to be very interesting indeed. I had 1 reason for not giving this story 5 stars...I didnt like the whole Napoleon conflict towards the end....but hey..who am I to complain? Gaelen Foley has undeniably reached the top of my favorite authors list!!!!!	2002-08-12
US	38855113	R2L2WUWM228OZF	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Girls...Gaelen Foley does it yet again!!!	Brilliant!!!! I absolutey love Ms. Foley's work!!! It's funny...as soon as Ive decided that I have a favorite, she goes and writes another book..and I just can't decide!!!! Lord of Fire is so wonderfully written!!! It is full of all of the rich emotion and complex characters that I have come to expect when purchasing a book by this outstanding author!!! Lucien was sooo tortured and beautiful...and Alice was his perfect match...This story was divine!!! Girls...buy this book!!!!	2002-08-11
US	38855113	R2DEEK4NME24O	0380789353	36693015	To Catch an Heiress	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fun, lighthearted read........	To Catch an Heiress was a fast and fun read...I finished it within a day....The story was sweet and fast paced..and I enjoyed Caroline's word of the Day entries...My main complaint about this book was that the characters were somewhat 2 dimensional......While Blake and Caroline were endearing, I didn't really feel as if I knew them all that well....I did,however, enjoy it..and I would recommend it to anyone who was in search of a fluffy story to pass the time..To Catch an Heiress is definitely charming.	2002-08-10
US	38855113	RZSQMQ8TT7OD2	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	3	0	2	N	N	I love Julie Garwood, but this wasnt her best.......	This book was ok....I think what bothered me most about it was the fact that we didnt really get to know the characters all that well. I felt that the begining of their relationship, when they were just getting to know each other, was rushed. To me, that was a crucial time..... because this is when they would have been getting to know one another....I felt that we lost out on getting to know them ...and because of this...it was hard to really get into their relationship...they seemed 2 dimensional to me. I adore Julie Garwood, and this certainly wasnt a bad book...it just wasnt my favorite.	2002-08-09
US	38855113	R2OD3ZYYHXOM77	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gaelen Foley is brilliant!!!!!!!!!	This book was soooo good..I honestly don't think it's possible for Ms. Foley to write a bad one!!! This is the last in the Ascension Trilogy...Every book of this series is so well written! There is such an excellent mix of emotion, action, turmoil, and romance...the relationships and the story lines that embrace them are undeniably rich....I have never read a series where I felt that I cared for the characters so much!!! They are so three dimensional...Girls..I highly recommend reading Gaelen Foley's work...at the very least pick up the Ascension Trilogy( The Pirate Prince,Princess,Prince Charming) You won't be disappointed!!!!	2002-08-06
US	38855113	R11JDASY83AVSK	0380780755	89054331	Dancing at Midnight (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not my favorite.....	I absolutely loooove Julia Quinn, but this was definitely not her best..I didnt connect with the characters at all, and I found myself struggling to finish it. It did, however, have it's charms...and Ms. Quinn is definitely still among my favorite authors....read her Bridgerton series...now that is entertaining...	2002-08-04
US	38855113	RXHBH24HY1WOG	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kleypas at her best!!!!!!	I have read just about every Lisa Kleypas book that I can get my hands on....I have just one thing to say...GIRLS GET THIS BOOK!!!!! Sara is so likeable...and Derek...dont even get me started!!! He is soooooo delicious!!!! If you are looking for an emotional,entertaining, steamy read....look no further..this is it!!!!	2002-08-04
US	38855113	R6GC3RFK0LIJ8	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Enjoyable....	This was a very fun, quick read. Emily had me laughing...and I fell for Draven almost immediately. I absolutely loved the way she persued him.This was my first book by Kinley MacGregor...but definitely not my last!	2002-08-04
US	38855113	RBNMD1661P1MR	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	You have to read this!	Oh! What a delightful read! I adore Julia Quinn's work..her Bridgerton series in particular, and while I love all of them...this is definitely thee best of the bunch. Kate and Anthony are great together...and some of the situations that Kate gets herself into will have you laughing out loud...it's it's almost as if you can FEEL her embarassment. This is really a lovely book...I recommend it highly...Read all of the Bridgertons!	2002-08-04
US	38855113	R1S1LXZZJVV6MZ	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Winner from Kleypas!!!	This is one of my favorites from Lisa Kleypas. I think its excellent because the heroine, Amanda, is not at all typical....and Jack is seriously sexy. This was my very first historical romance that I ever read..it roped me in with it's fast pace and steamy lovescenes. I would definitely recommend giving this one a try...you wont be disappointed!!!!	2002-08-04
US	38855113	R32N3SOY3XAJ6U	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Woohooo!!! There were sparks flying off the pages!!!	Girls...what a great book!!! The attraction between Alec and Jamie was undeniable!!! I looooved the way Alec was described..so big and and almost ..primitive....yummy!!! The story was fast moving and oh so entertaining..after this...you must read \\" The Wedding\\"...Don't you just love Julie Garwood???!!!	2002-08-04
US	38855113	R26MYDMTVM6EDU	0380780755	89054331	Dancing at Midnight (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not my favorite.....	I absolutely loooove Julia Quinn, but this was definitely not her best..I didnt connect with the characters at all, and I found myself struggling to finish it. It did, however, have it's charms...and Ms. Quinn is definitely still among my favorite authors....read her Bridgerton series...now that is entertaining...	2002-08-04
US	38855113	R3HQRZB3SUVGSY	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not my favorite.....	I enjoyed this book..I felt that it started out strongly... but then, I found myself flying through parts simply because I was becoming irritated by the whole &quot;uncle&quot; thing....on the other hand...I didnt think that the characters really spent enough time together..and I found the whole sub plot with Nicholas' real mother's identity to be not only thin, but predictable...all in all...this was entertaining enough, but definitely not Lindsey's best...	2002-08-03
US	38855113	R2LEKN62U7QCZH	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Charming.....kept me up till the wee hours...	This was really a delightful book...I adored Brenna...she was so much fun, and the sparks were flying off the page when she and Connor were together!! It was also nice to see Alec and Jamie back from &quot; The Bride&quot;. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. My only reason for not giving it 5 stars was that I felt the end was wrapped up too quickly, but other than that..a gem... This was just another wonderful example of Julie Garwood's talent. She is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors...	2002-08-03
US	38855113	RCTIZEB9NQV78	0440217857	509263444	Across a Moonlit Sea	Books	3	3	16	N	N	Disappointing.....	I bought this book because of the glowing reviews, but was sooo letdown...I mean...I'm not saying that this book was horrible, I just found myself struggling to get through it..I didn't connect with the characters at all....this was my first book by Marsha Canham..I honestly don't think Ill buy another.	2002-08-02
US	38855113	R2BRYSHVDVBRUH	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A fun read....but not what I hoped for	This was a nice book..If I had not read the other books in this series first, I think I would have liked this one better. The reason being that I quite honestly adored Colin from the earlier novels, so, when I found that he was to have his own book..and then to be paired with Penelope!!!..I was ecstatic!!!!! However, I feel like..well...where was the romance? It was a sweet story, but I wanted more details..I felt like their feelings for eachother were lukewarm. What killed me the most was ....what the heck happened to Colin? He seemed to have lost all of his appeal in this book. Dont get me wrong..this was sweet and I was charmed by Penelope, but I think there could have been less focus on Whistledown and more on Colin and Penelope's relationship. Oh well...Im still glad that I read it..and I'm most definitely going to jump at the chance to read about Eloise.	2002-07-31
US	38855113	R3R3BSRDR5C8GH	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	LOOOOOVED THIS BOOK!!	After reading The Pirate Prince, I did not think that I could possibly find a book that I adored more...well, I was wrong!! Princess is wonderful!! I can't even tell you how taken I was with Serafina and Darius....I definitely reccommend this book..the tension is unbelievably hot..and Darius is to die for...My only complaint is that Lazar and Allegra were but mere shadows of their former selves, but it was forgivable with such a rich plot and outstanding main characters....girls, get this book!!	2002-07-30
US	38855113	R1RS64GW7WWW0Q	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This deserves way more than 5 stars!!!!!	This is absolutely thee best romance book that I have ever read!!! Being an obsessive reader...Ive experienced a ton of books...but while many romances tend to make the physical love top priority( not to say that this didnt have wonderfully steamy lovescenes)this novel put such rich detail into their emotional bond!!! oh..they are sooo in love!!! Allegra was awesome....Lazar was yummy!!! you must read this!!!	2002-07-25
US	38855113	R1XTVN7ZNDQCMZ	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	a letdown....	Let me just start this by saying that I LOOOOVE romance novels, and I love a good sex scene...but where was the emotion? I never thought Id say this, but this book had too much sex! It got boring after awhile, usually when Im reading a book and the tension is building, Im dying for some of the intimate scenes...but in this book, I actually found my self flipping ahead to read something besides all of this meaningless sex. Also, how in the heck did Amanda get away with such behavior back in the day? I think what got to me the most was..when I started  this book..it began so well..I was immediately hooked into the fast pace..only to later be disappointed..all in all...not horrible, but it could stand to have about 150 pages knocked off.	2002-07-16
