US	38857584	RXYF3OOLRQKXA	0385424736	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	5	0	0	N	N	THE RAINMAKER	In his first courtroom thriller since A Time To Kill, John Grisham tells the story of a young man barely out of law school who finds himself taking on one of the most powerful, corrupt, and ruthless companies in America and exposing a complex, multibillion dollar insurance scam.<br />  In his final semester of law school Rudy Baylor is required to provide free legal advice to a group of senior citizens, and it is there that he meets his first clients, Dot and Buddy Black. Their son, Donny Ray, is dying of leukemia, and their insurance company has flatly refused to pay for his medical treatments. While Rudy is at first skeptical, he soon realizes that the Blacks really have been shockingly mistreated by the huge company,and that he just may have stumbled upon one of the largest insurance frauds anyone's ever seen, and one of the most lucrative and important cases in the history of civil litigation. The problem is, Rudy's flat broke, has no job, hasn't even passed the bar, and is about to go head - to head with one of the best defense attorney's and powerful industries in America.	2003-03-27
US	38857584	R2SQ7IWUVXME1R	0385424728	233513923	The Chamber	Books	1	4	6	N	N	CAYALL'S LIFE WAS FULL OF BAD LUCK	In 1967 in Greenville, Mississippi, known klan member Sam Cayhall is accused of bombing the law offices of Jewish civil rights activist Marvin Kramer, killing Kramer's two sons. Cayhall's first trail, with an all white jury and a klan rally outside the courthouse, ends in a hung jury, the retrail six months later has the same outcome.<br /> Twelve years later an ambitious district attorney in Greenville reopens the case. Much has changed since 1967, and this time, with a jury of eight whites and four blacks, Cayhall is convicted. He is transferred to the state penitentiary at Parchman to await execution on death row. <br /> In 1990, in the huge Chicago law firm of Kravitz and Bane, a young lawyer named Adam Hall asks to work on the Cayhall case, which the firm has handled on a pro bono basis for years. But the case is all but lost and time is running out: within weeks Sam Cayhall will finally go to the gas chamber. Why in the world would Adam want to get involved? <br /> Good question who wants to even read this long boring novel by John Grisham, I bet not many people. I on the other hand have and it's not good. Sam Cayhall's life was filled with bad luck when he and his terriost friend bombed the law office's of Marvin Kramer, Sam didn't want to kill them, he just wanted to give them a good scare. It was his friend who wanted to kill the little Jewish kids, and he did. Sam got caught and his friend didn't. Deep down Sam was never a hateful racist, he was just raised that way, he has a family past full of hatered. And it just was the miserable environment of the racist south. He was influenced by family and peers. I give this book a one star because it was boring and it dragged on and on. And he got gassed at the end. . I am opposed to the death penalty, I don't think they should of gassed him. I do think people like Sam Cayhall and all the other killers and murders out there, I don't think that they should die but to do hard intense manual labor and suffer physically and mentally for the rest of their lives until they die in prison. <br /> Read another Grisham novel all of them are good but this one.	2003-03-01
US	38857584	R3ETAKPQWW8A6J	038542471X	282981210	The Client	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE CLIENT	In the two years since The Firm first captured the imagination of America'a readers, John Grisham, with three consecutive number - one bestsellers, has become one of the most popular authors of our time. Now, in The Client, he has written a novel so irresistible, so thoroughly entertaining and satisfying, that it is sure not only to please his millions of fans, but to win him new ones as well.<br /> This is the story of eleven year old Mark Sway, who, as the novel opens, witnesses the bizarre suicide of a New Orleans attorney. Just before he dies, the lawyer tells Mark a deadly secret concerning the recent murder of a Louisiana Senator, whose accused killer, Mafia thug Barry Muldanno, is about to go to trial. The police, the federal prosecutor, and the FBI pressure Mark to tell them the attorney's last words, but he knows that with the mob watching his every move, revealing his secret will almost surely get him killed.<br /> So Mark, streetwise and old beyond his years, hires a lawyer: Reggie Love, a fifty - two - year- old divorcee who's been through more than anyone could imagine and survived, basically, because she's tough. And feisty. And loves helping kids overlooked or abused by the system. But when Mark's life is threatened, and Reggie discovers her office has been bugged, and even the Juvenile Court judge says Mark has no choice but to talk, she realizes that she's in way over her head. But then Mark comes up with a plan ...a crazy plan, in Reggie's opinion, but it's their only hope. And it just might work.<br /> With the page - turning suspense and terrific plot twists that have become John Grisham's trademark, he has once again crafted a novel that simply cannot be put down. But in The Client Grisham has gone a step further with a cast of unforgettable characters headed by the most original hero in years, he has mixed equal parts humor and warmth to truly expand the boundaries of the legal thriller.	2003-02-04
US	38857584	R1ES0JW63YM1NR	0385421982	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THE PELICAN BREIF	John Grisham's 1991 novel THE FIRM drew unprecedented praise from reviewers, booksellers and readers across America, and it quickly became the top bestseller of the year. Now Grisham is back with The Pelican Brief, an irresistible story that begins with the simultaneous assassinations of two Supreme Court Justices...<br /> Late one October night Justice Abe Rosenberg, at ninety - one the Supreme Court's liberal legend, is shot in the head while sleeping in his Georgetown home. Two hours later Glenn Jensen, the Court's youngest and most conservative justice, is strangled, possibly by the same assassin. The country is stunned and baffled; the FBI has no clues.<br /> But Darby Shaw, a brilliant law student at Tulane, thinks she has the answer. Days of digging in the law libray's computers have led her to an obscure connection between the two justices. She fleshes out her beliefs in a meticulous though wildly speculative brief that builds a strong case against a most unlikely suspect.<br /> Her suspect has powerful friends. one evening, outside a New Orleans restaurant, she narrowly escapes an assassin's car bomb. Someone has read her brief. Someone who wants her dead. Alone and frightened, Darby disappears into the anonymous shadows of the French Quarter. After reading an alarming story about the assassinations in the Washington Post, she contacts investigative reporter Gray Grantham and convinces him that Washington's position the killings amounts to the biggest cover - up since Watergate. Together they go underground, on the run, trying to stay alive long enough to expose the real truth in The Pelican Brief.<br /> Featuring the unique mix of legal intrigue and page - turning suspense that drove The Firm to the top of the bestseller lists, The Pelican Brief is sure to be one of the most popular and satisfying novels of the year.	2003-01-04
US	38857584	R25FA14XLPIMXW	0385416342	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	0	1	N	N	THE FIRM	Mitchell Y. McDeere has worked hard to get where he is: third in his class at Harvard Law. Aggressively recruited by all the top firms, and initially headed for Wall Street, Mitch surprises everyone by joining Bendini, Lambert and Locke, a very private, very rich tax firm in Memphis. Mitch and his wife Abby move to Tennessee and quickly settle into their new life: they're young, happy, and on the fast track. Or so they think.<br /> Soon, though, Mitch senses trouble: two of the partners die in a suspicious diving accident off Grand Cayman; the firm's management is overly proud of the fact that no one has ever resigned; and security measures at the firm are even for a company with billionaire clients more than a little stringent. Then, suddenly, Mitch's vague suspicions come to life. While eating alone at a nearby diner, he is approached by a man named Tarrance who claims to be with the FBI. Tarrance tells Mitch that the firm's \\"security\\" people have bugged his phone, his house, and probably his car; that he is in great danger and should be extremely careful; that he cannot tell a soul of their meeting; and that the FBI will contact him again soon. Then he is gone.<br /> In subsequent meetings with Tarrance, Mitch is told that the FBI has been studying Bendini, Lambert and Locke for years, and that while they have a few legitimate clients, they are most assuredly not a law firm. When Mitch learns what they really are, he is at first shocked, then frightened; when he learns what they really do, and how they do it, he is terrified. And when Tarrance tells him the FBI needs an informant inside the firm, he realizes he's trapped: the FBI will bust him if he doesn't cooperate, and the firm will kill him if he does. There's no way out. Or is there?<br /> Blending the suspense of Ken Follett with the legal intrigue of Scott Turow, this is one of those rare novels that grab you on page one and simply cannot be put down.	2002-12-19
US	38857584	R1I5EJXRX53T17	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	6	7	N	N	THE FIRM	Mitchell Y. McDeere has worked hard to get where he is: third in his class at Harvard Law. Aggressively recruited by all the top firms, and initially headed for Wall Street, Mitch surprises everyone by joining Bendini, Lambert and Locke, a very private, very rich tax firm in Memphis. Mitch and his wife Abby move to Tennessee and quickly settle into their new life: they're young, happy, and on the fast track. Or so they think.<br /> Soon, though, Mitch senses trouble: two of the partners die in a suspicious diving accident off Grand Cayman; the firm's management is overly proud of the fact that no one has ever resigned; and security measures at the firm are even for a company with billionare clients more than a little stringent. Then, suddenly, Mitch's vague suspicions come to life. While eating alone at a nearby diner, he is approached by a man named Tarrance who claims to be with the FBI. Tarrance tells Mitch that the firm's \\"security\\" people have bugged his phone, his house, and he is in great danger and should be extremely careful; that he cannot tell a soul of their meeting; and that the FBI will contact him again soon. Then he is gone.<br /> In subsequent meetings with Tarrance, Mitch is told that the FBI has been studying Bendini, Lambert and Locke for years, and that while they have a few legitimate clients, they are most assuredly not a law firm. When Mitch learns what they really are, he is at first shocked, then frightened; when he learns what they really do, and how they do it, he is terrified. And when Tarrance tells him the FBI needs an informant inside the firm, he realizes he's trapped: the FBI will bust him if he doesn't cooperate, and the firm will kill him if he does. There's no way out. Or is there?<br /> Blending the suspense of Ken Follett with the legal intrigue of Scott Turow, this is one of those rare novels that grab you on page one and simply cannot be put down.	2002-12-16
US	38857584	R1ZIZ2IN0Q4U0M	0385470819	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A TIME TO KILL	Near the rural town of Clanton, Mississippi, little Tonya Hailey is brutally raped, beaten, and left for dead by two drunken and remorseless men. The rapists are almost immediately caught in a roadside bar, where they have been bragging of their exploits. When the men appear in court days later, Tonya's father Carl bursts out of the courthouse basement, and executes them with an assault rifle. Murder or execution? Justice or revenge? Carl trusts his life to only one man in town - local criminal lawyer Jake Brigance, who dreams of famous cases, headlines, and the big time. Jake is about to face the fight of his life, and he knows it. Not only is he up against Rufus Buckley - a tough, ambitious district attorney who realizes that a murder conviction could help him gain higher office - but he has a much bigger problem: the rapists are white, the judge is white, the jury is white - and Carl is black. This is a trial sure to change forever the lives of everyone involved.<br /> A Time To Kill is a riveting novel that challenges everything we think we know about justice and equality.	2002-11-14
US	38857584	RUGS0XEIKI92C	0385470819	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A TIME TO KILL	Near the rural town of Clanton, Mississippi, little Tonya Hailey is brutally raped, beaten, and left for dead by two drunken and remorseless men. The rapists are almost immediately caught in a roadside bar, where they have been bragging of their exploits. When the men appear in court days later, Tonya's father Carl bursts out of the courthouse basement, and executes them with an assault rifle. Murder or execution? Justice or revenge? Carl trusts his life to only one man in town - local criminal lawyer Jake Brigance, who dreams of famous cases, headlines, and the big time. Jake is about to face the fight of his life, and he knows it. Not only is he up against Rufus Buckley - a tough, ambitious district attorney who realizes that a murder conviction could help him gain higher office - but he has a much bigger problem: the rapists are white, the judge is white, the jury is white - and Carl is black. This is a trial sure to change forever the lives of everyone involved.<br />           A Time To Kill is a riveting novel that challenges everything we think we know about justice and equality.	2002-11-14
US	38857584	R1VH6CA2YK1EWO	0385007515	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Salem's Lot	Salem's Lot is a small New England town with white clapboard houses, tree - lined streets, and solid church steeples. That summer in Salem's Lot was a summer of homecoming and return; spring burned out and the land lying dry, crackling underfoot. Late that summer, Ben Mears returned to Salem's Lot hoping to cast out his own devils and found instead a new, unspeakable horror. A stranger had also come to the Lot, a stranger with a secret as old as evil, a secret that would wreak irreaparable harm on those he touched and in turn on those they loved. All would be changed forever: Susan, whose love for Ben could not protect her; Father Callahan, the bad priest who put his eroded faith to one last test; and Mark, a young boy who sees his fantasy world become reality and ironically proves the best equipped to handle the relentless nightmare of Salem's Lot. <BR> This is a rare novel, almost hypnotic in its unyielding suspense, which builds to a climax of classic terror. You will not forget the town of Salem's Lot nor any of the people who used to live there.	2002-10-31
US	38857584	R3W28O3YP6B412	0664244947	707098024	You Learn by Living: Eleven Keys for a More Fulfilling Life	Books	5	128	131	N	N	You Learn By Living Eleven Keys For A More Fulfilling Life	In this wise and highly personal book, one of the twentieth century's most famous and beloved first ladies - Eleanor Roosevelt - offers advice on how to create a satisfying life.<br />Offering her own philosophy on living, the woman who was called Fist Lady to the World leads readers on a path to confidence, education, maturity, and more.<br />You Learn By Living is a book that remains fascinating, inspirational, and relevant to late - twentieth - century readers. <br />The keys to the kind of life Mrs. Roosevelt describes are:<br />- Learning to Learn<BR>- Fear the Great Enemy <BR>- The Uses of Time<BR>- The Difficult Art of Maturity<BR>- Readjustments Is Endless<BR>- Learning to Be Useful <BR>- The Right to Be an Individual <BR>- How to Get the Best Out of People<BR>- Facing Responsibility<BR>- How Everyone Can Take Part in Politics<BR>- Learning to Be a Public Servant	2002-09-28
US	38857584	RNETHZO3OZBMS	0231111819	824681618	Courage in a Dangerous World	Books	5	4	4	N	N	COURAGE IN A DANGEROUS WORLD	Although Elanor Roosevelt's life and work have ispired dozens of books, her own prolific writings are largely confined to the Roosevelt archives in Hyde Park. Courage In A Dangerous World allows her own voice again to be heard. Noted Elanor Roosevelt scholar Allida M. Black has gathered more than two hundred columns, articles, essays, speeches, and letters, tracing her development from timorous columnist to one of liberalism's most eloquent and outspoken leaders. From ''My Day'' newspaper columns about Marian Anderson and experts from Moral Basis of Democracy and This Troubled World to speeches and articles on the Holocaust and McCarthyism, this anthology provides readers with the tools to reconstruct the politics of a woman who redefined American liberalism and democratic reform.	2002-09-28
US	38857584	R225GXQY882ORH	0935112618	69815725	The Clinton Years: The Photographs Of Robert Mcneely	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THE CLINTON YEARS	ROBERT McNEELY - President Bill Clinton's official photographer from 1992 to 1998 - has traveled the world and roamed the halls of the White House, a virtual fly - on - the - wall, documenting the day - to - day political and private lives of President Clinton and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. The Clinton Years presents in dramatic detail a behind - the - scenes look at the White House with intriguing glimpses into the personal side of Clinton's presidency.<br />Clinton trusted McNeely's vision completely and granted him full access to the inner workings of the presidency. McNeely was Clinton's constant shadow, quietly recording for posterity the president's moods, his reactions to key moments and events, his prowess as a politican, his personal charisma and presence, and his interactions with world leaders. An intimate look at the man behind the politician, this collection also reveals Clinton's relationships with his wife, his staff, his public and the world. These striking images compel the viewer to recognize what an extraordinarily complex individual Bill Clinton is. It is more than a portrait of a president; it is an education about the presidency. The Clinton Years is an essential record of Bill Clinton's legacy.	2002-06-17
US	38857584	R21HLQYAJ86LQP	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	5	8	12	N	N	The Natural: Bill Clinton	Joe Klein tackles the subject he knows best: Bill Clinton. Astute, even - handed, and keenly intelligent, The Natural is the only book to read if you want to understand exactly what happened - to the military, to the economy, to the American people, to the country - during Bill Clinton's presidency, and how the decisions made during his tenure affect all of us today. <br /> Much has been written about Clinton, but The Natural is the first work to cut through the gossip, scandles, media hype, and emotional turbulence that Clinton always engendered, to step back and rationally analyze the eight years tenure, a period during which America rose to unprecedental levels of prosperity. Joe Klein puts that record into perspective, showing us what worked and what didn't, exactly what was accomplished and why, and who was responsible for the successes and the failures.<br /> We see how the Clinton White House functioned on the inside, how it dealt with the maneuvers of Congress and the Gingrich revolution, and who held power and made the decisions during the endless crises that beset the administration. Klein's access to the White House over the years as a journalist gave him a prime spot from which to view every crucial event - both political and personal - and he sets them forth in an insightful, readable, and completely engrossing manner.<br /> The Natural is stern in its criticism and convincing with its praise. It will cause endless debate among friends and foes of the Clinton administration. It is a book that anyone interested in contemporary politics, in American history, or in the functioning of our democracy should read.	2002-05-23
US	38857584	R2KRCBFYV72DJ8	1881649008	898675223	Of the People: The 200 Year History of the Democratic Party	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Of the People :The 200 Year History of the Democratic Party	1992 marks the Bicentennial of the oldest ongoing political party in the world. It is doubtful that our forefathers ever thought it would last this long, let alone flourish. But the Democratic Party has endured because, from the very beginning, it has stood for - and fought for - the same ideals of individual freedom and equality that were embodied in America's great War of Independence and in the Constitution that provided the framework for our nation. Of The People... is thus more than the first illustrated history of the Democratic Party. It is a panorama of the great events that forged America itself - and of the great Americans who made these events happen.<br /> The struggles, motivations and behind - the - scenes dealings of the fascinating characters we've heard about all our lives are vividly brought to life: Thomas Jefferson overcoming his deep distrust of political factionalism to lead America's first party; James Madison helping to outmaneuver Alexander Hamilton to keep the new Republic free from foreign influence and a ruling elite; James Monroe negotiating with Napoleon to buy the Louisiana Territory in history's biggest bargin; Andrew Jackson hosting a riotous party in the White House on the night of his inauguration; Woodrow Wilson staging his doomed crusade for the League of Nations; Franklin Roosevelt leading a brave nation through the ravages of Depression and war; Harry Truman waging peace abroad and healing America at home; John Kennedy inspiring a new generation to join him on the \\"New Frontier\\"; \\"Lyndon Johnson strong - arming Congress to heal the divisions between black and white, rich and poor in his \\"Great Society;\\" Jimmy Carter at Camp David mediating an uneasy peace in the Middle East.<br /> This monumental story is told with compelling dramatic power by America's foremost historians and political scientists, and stunningly illustrated with a wealth of rare archival paintings, historic photographs, fascinating maps and period political cartoons. As a special addition, the book is enriched with personal observations from a dozen of the most prominent and powerful Democrats on today's political scene.<br /> For students of history, for serious collectors, for loyal Democrats, for the loyal opposition, for everyone who understands that the past is prologue, this historic book is required reading.<br /> Of The People... is for all the people.rtoons. As a special addition, the book is enriched with personal observations from a dozen of the most prominent and powerful Democrats on today's political scene.<br /> For students of history, for serious collectors, for loyal Democrats, for the loyal opposition, for everyone who understands that the past is prologue, this historic book is required reading.<BR> Of The People... is for all the people.	2002-05-18
US	38857584	R28AX0LJ5GK0P1	0786867930	543948528	Profiles in Courage For Our Time	Books	5	2	10	N	N	PROFILES IN COURAGE FOR OUR TIME	Nearly fifty years have passed since the publication of John F. Kennedy's Profiles in Courage, the then - senator's Pulitzer prize - winning homage to American political greatness. The people selected for that book represented the rich legacy of individual courage in the pursuit of justice that belonged to America at mid - century.<br /> To recognize annually the continuing presence of these qualities across the broad spectrum of American public service, the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation created the Profile in Courage Award in 1989. The recipients - a diverse group of men and woman who share the distinction of being elected officials at the national, state, or local level - have each served their country by taking a stand in the face of public opinion or political pressure. And just as the Profile in Courage Award celebrates their exceptional achievements, Profiles in Courage for Our Time, edited and introduced by Caroline Kennedy, recognizes that the journey of conscience undertaken by each of these courageous public servants is a story that must be told.<br /> Some of the greatest writers have bought their formidable talents to the task of chronicling these heroic episodes. Michael Beschloss, Anna Quindlen, Bob Woodward, Marian Wright Edelman, among other luminaries, provide the award winners the eloquence and passion they deserve in recording their experiences.<br /> Profiles in Courage for Our Time is not only a record of past accomplishments, but also inspires us to always ask more of ourselves in the effort to bring about change for the greater good.	2002-05-16
US	38857584	R3CV5N093WCLYI	0679744347	245358260	The Right to Privacy	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THE RIGHT TO PRIVACY	Although the word \\"privacy\\" does not appear in the United States Constitution, most Americans believe that their right to privacy is not just legally protected but fundamental to their lives, their way of living, and this country's democratic system. Abstract and difficult to define, privacy is nonetheless perceived as one of our most basic and coveted rights.<br /> But is it? How well are we protected? And what, exactly, are we protected from?<br /> Through a seamless interweaving of landmark cases, lesser - known but equally important trial decisions, and dozens of anecdotal narratives, Ellen Alderman and Caroline Kennedy, authors of the best - selling In Our Defense, make an urgent and complicated issue more absorbing and accessible than ever before. In thier hands, we can finally see the law translated into relevant human experience.<br /> The Right to Privacy delves into six general areas: Privacy versus Law Enforcement, Privacy and Your Self, Privacy versus The Press, Privacy versus The Voyeur, Privacy in the Workplace, and Privacy and Information. Can you refuse to comply when a police officer asks to look through your luggage? Is there anything you can do to prevent all those computerized data banks from filling up with more and more personal information about you? Can television cameras follow a breaking news story right into your home? Does your boss have a right to know that you are homosexual? a smoker? dating a co - worker? Who is entitled to make life - or - death decisions for someone who is no longer able to do so? Legally,the answer to each of these questions revolves around the right to privacy.<br /> We live in a society in which our right to privacy is much discussed, misunderstood, and, in many cases, seriously threatened. The Right to Privacy will enrich the discussion, shed light on many of the misunderstandings, and illuminate the real - life, everyday impact of one of the most important issues of our time.	2002-05-12
US	38857584	RXOW37GQLSQ0H	1887227466	75381262	The Greatest Speeches of President John F. Kennedy	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Greatest Speeches Of President John F. Kennedy	President Kennedy guided the United States through the most dangerous times since the Second World War. In his 1,000 days in office he lead America through the Cold War, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Berlin blockade, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, and through turbulent times in the cities - the Freedom Riders, segregation and integration, race riots, and lynchings.<br />But by instituting progressive policies of peace abroad and equality at home, President Kennedy made enemies of those who wished for the status quo. His death was a great loss - the loss of what \\"could have been\\", the loss of a rare breed of politican who inspired people with a clear vision of the future.<br /> \\"We stand today on the edge of a New Frontier\\" <BR> <BR> \\"Ask not what your country can do for you...\\"<BR> <BR> \\"We seek peace - but we shall not surrender\\" <br /> \\"We choose to go to the moon\\" <br /> \\"An already clear and present danger\\"<br /> \\"Let us...step back from the shadows of war\\" <br /> \\"We face a moral crisis as a country and as a people\\"	2002-04-28
US	38857584	R32Q51G626JBXY	0743212983	226114904	Lincoln's Greatest Speech: The Second Inaugural	Books	5	6	7	N	N	LINCOLN'S GREATEST SPEECH THE SECOND INAUGURAL	Lincoln's thought the Second Inaugural to be his greatest speech even more profound and powerful than the Gettysburg Address. Ronald C. White's remarkable analysis of the Second Inaugural will convince readers that Lincoln was right. A meditation on God's purpose in the Civil War, the Second Inaugural had several layers of meaning. In lucid prose, White explores each level and places the speech in a broad historical and theological context.	2002-04-25
US	38857584	R324HZNR3COZKO	0684857731	317163700	Stickin': The Case for Loyalty	Books	5	3	3	N	N	STICKIN' THE CASE FOR LOYALTY	In Stickin', the always colorful and insightful political strategist James Carville, who has been accused of being loyal, examines this much - maligned and misunderstood political good. Along the way, he looks at loyalty in the family and among friends, in theory and in practice. He praises some loyal people and skewers some deserving backstabbers.	2002-04-18
US	38857584	R1OTMN0C9X1GFJ	0151003564	168158483	Make Gentle the Life of This World: The Vision of Robert F. Kennedy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MAKE GENTLE THE LIFE OF THIS WORLD	Throughout the 1960s, Robert F. Kennedy personally recorded ideas, ideals, and principles that spoke to his mind and his heart in a private journal. Now, thirty years after Robert's tragic death, his son Maxwell Taylor Kennedy has drawn from both this journal and his father's speeches to offer the quintessence and the depth of his thinking. Filled with energy and insight, Make Gentle the life of this World is the invigorating and thought - provoking portrait of a mind that shaped a generation and of a man who lived for his country. Beautifully illustrated with photos both public and private, some published here for the first time, Make Gentle the Life of This World commemorates how Robert F. Kennedy touched our hearts and quickened our lives.	2002-04-18
US	38857584	R1QBI0YB7L6AN5	0679769781	831998889	We're Right, They're Wrong: A Handbook for Spirited Progressives	Books	5	8	10	N	N	We're Right, They're Wrong	Just like Harry Truman, the Ragin' Cajun' gives 'em hell. James Carville wants to put Democrats back on the offensive. Carville, chief strategist of Bill Clinton's 1992 War Room, is out to break the GOP'S Contract with America. <BR> In We're Right, They're Wrong, Carville serves up a sassy, no - holdsbarred response to the right - wing myths spewing out of Congress and polluting the AM airwaves. Carville rips apart Republican bluster and [extreme] programs and offers smart, compassionate, no-nonsense alternatives. Tired of getting browbeaten at neighborhood barbecues and school board meetings? We're Right, They're Wrong gets progressives off their heels and back on the attack.<br /> With Carville's trademark wit, political savvy, and street smarts, We're Right, They're Wrong is a broadside for our times, the most provocative book of the 1996 campaign season.	2002-04-17
US	38857584	R3CNE68QUHA6XS	0743224221	570752224	Buck Up, Suck Up . . . and Come Back When You Foul Up: 12 Winning Secrets from the War Room	Books	5	1	2	N	N	BUCK UP, SUCK UP... AND COME BACK WHEN YOU FOUL UP	James Carville and Paul Begala have waged political war all across America and on three continents. They've won some of the most spectacular political victories of the twentieth century and lost a few campaigns too. Along the way, they've learned a few lessons. Some sound simple, like \\"Never Quiet,\\" some comic... and some are more complicated and nuanced, like \\"Strategy Ain't Tactics,\\" But each lesson contains tired - and - true wisdom, illustrated with colorful stories from long political experience many never told before:<br />- Find out how Carville's mother, Miz Nippy, used a bass boat to \\"frame the debate\\"in selling encyclopedias.<br />- Discover what success secret Hillary Rodham Clinton and Tom DeLay share.<br />- Learn the War Room tricks for sharpening your message and delivering the perfect sound bite. <br />- And much more.<br /> Whether you are a senior executive or a secretary, a political junkie or the president of the United States, the rules to live by can be found in Buck Up, Suck Up...and Come Back When You Foul Up.	2002-04-13
US	38857584	R1OXITH3DQCTND	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thirteen Days: A Memoir Of The Cuban Missile Crisis	During the thirteen days in October 1962 when the United States confronted the Soviet Union over its installation of missiles in Cuba, few people shared the behind - the - scenes story as it is told here by the late Senator Robert F. Kennedy. In this unique account, he describes each of the participants during the sometimes hour - to - hour negotiations, with particular attention to the actions and views of his brother, President John F. Kennedy. <br />In a new foreword for this edition, the distinguished historian and Kennedy adviser Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., discusses the book's enduring importance and the significance of new information about the crisis that has come to light, especially from the Soviet Union.<br />As a principle figure in resolving the crisis Robert Kennedy brings to it extraordinary authority, with his own insights, perspectives and very important revelations of the decision - making process at the highest level, on the brink of nuclear holocaust.	2002-04-06
US	38857584	R2S0EORNCEA9B2	037540158X	512541409	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lincoln's Virtues: An Ethical Biography	Lincoln's Virtues approaches this much - written - about figure from wholly new standpoint. As a biography uniquely revealing of its subject's heart and mind, it represents a major contribution to the current and perennial American discussion of national moral conduct, and of the relationship between politics and morality.	2002-04-06
US	38857584	RIET930O0P2LB	1891620363	380656347	John F. Kennedy: The Presidential Portfolio: History as Told Through the John F. Kennedy Library and Museum	Books	5	10	10	N	N	John F. Kennedy: The Presidential Portfolio	John F. Kennedy: The Presidential Portfolio features more than 250 photos and documents from the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum that capture the essence, style, and excitement of the Kennedy presidency. Included in these pages are the artifacts from a lifetime young Jack's letter requsting to be made Godfather to his brother Teddy, a handwritten fragment of the inaugural adress, correspondence from Nikita Khrushchev, Martin Luther King, Jr., Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy and many others. Providing the backdrop for these images is a carefully rendered narrative highlighting the many remarkable events of Kennedy's life and his presidency: the tremendous physical ailments JFK had to overcome on a daily basis, his privileged chilhhood, transformation from reluctant student to Pulitzer Prize - winning author, dramatic political campaigns, struggle over the Cuban missile crisis, and his efforts to end segregation as well as counter nuclear proliferation, are all recounted here.<br />To Enhance The Experience of reliving the Kennedy years, a riveting 60 - minute audio CD of JFK'S phone conversations and personal dictations is packaged with the book. The following is a list of the recordings.<br />- An undated memoir entry concerning JFK'S entrance into politics.<br />- A dicated letter (circa 1959) to Joseph P. Kennedy on election and poll results.<br />- A dictated letter (circa 1959) to Jacqueline Kennedy on weekend in Rhode Island. <br />- Phone Conversation with Sargent Shriver recorded on April 2, 1963 regarding keeping CIA out of the Peace Corps. <br />- Three phone conversations with Ross Barnett recorded on September 30, 1962, regarding the University of Mississippi crisis.<br />- Phone conversation with Richard J. Daley recorded on October 28, 1963 regarding the civil rights bill. <br />- Phone conversation with Charles Halleck recorded on October 29, 1963 regarding the civil rights bill.<br />- An undated phone conversation between JFK and RFK concerning articles in Newsweek and Time magazines.<br />-Phone conversation with Dwight D. Eisenhower on October 22, 1962 regarding Cuban missile crisis. <br />- Phone conversation with Dwight D. Eisenhower on October 28,1962 regarding Cuban missile crisis.<br />-Phone conversation with Lincoln White on October 26,1962 regarding comments to the press concerning Cuban missile crisis.<br />- A dictated memoir entry dated November 1963.	2002-04-06
US	38857584	R103IV2VHOGH08	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	1	8	41	N	N	FAT  PUKANAN  A REAL RACIST	IN THIS POOR EXCUSE OF A BOOK PAT BUCHANAN WANTS TO SEND ALL THE IMMAGRANTS AND FOREIGNERS BACK TO THEIR COUNTRY BECAUSE HE HATES TO SEE DIVERSITY. HE WANTS ALL WHITE MALES TO CONTROL EVERYTHING. PAT BUCHANAN IS ONE OF THE MOST CLOSE MINDED POLITICIANS AROUND,IT'S A GOOD THING HE IS NOT ELECTED TO ANY MAJOR CONGRESS OR SENATE IN THIS COUNTRY BECAUSE IF HE WAS WE WOULD BE IN TROUBLE. MOST ALL OF THE IMMAGRANTS ARE VERY POOR AND DISADVANTAGED IF THEY HAVE ANY JOB HERE THEY WOULD BE VERY GRATEFUL. IF THEY ARE TO GET A JOB IT WOULD PROBABLY BE WORKING FAST FOOD OR WORKING AT GAS STATION'S,PICKING UP TRASH IN THE MALL'S OR THE STREET'S, WORKING AS HOTEL MAID'S AND THIS MEAN SPIRITED MAD MAN WANTS TO SEND THEM BACK, WE NEED THIS PEOPLE THEY HELP OUR ECONOMY. WHAT HE FAILS TO REALIZE IS THAT WE ARE ALL IMMIGRANTS FROM DIFFERENT COUNTIRES, THE FIRST PEOPLE IN AMERICA WERE THE NATIVE AMERICAN'S. I CANNOT BELIVE THEY WOULD EVEN CONSIDER PUBLISHING THIS BOOK, WHAT A WASTE OF GOOD PAPER.	2002-04-05
US	38857584	R1F8RHP5AHJTT5	0060955449	2759931	Profiles in Courage (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Profiles In Courage	This is a book about the most admirable of human virtues - courage. Grace under presure. \\"Ernest Hemingway defined it. And these are the stories of the pressures experienced by eight United States Senators and the grace with which they endured them\\". <BR> John F. Kennedy<BR> <BR> During 1954 - 1955, John F. Kennedy, then a U.S. Senator, chose eight of his historical colleagues to profile for their acts of astounding integrity in the face of overwhelming opposition. These heroes include John Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster, Thomas Hart Benson, and Robert A. Tft.<BR> Awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1956. Profiles in Courage resounds with timeless lessons on the most cherished of virtues and is a powerful reminder of the strength of the human spirit. It is, as Robert Kennedy states in the foreword, \\"not just stories of the past but a book of hope and confidence for the future. What happens to the country, to the world, depends on what we do with what others have left us.	2002-03-23
US	38857584	R364EG7ULGOIC	0394604687	53796551	Abraham Lincoln : A Biography (Modern Library Edition)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	A Biography, Abraham Lincoln	Most Americans know the major details of the life of our sixteenth president: his pioneer family and humble upbringing; his self - education, his rise through native wit and intelligence from lawyer to state legislator to presidential candidate; his necessarily rapid growth as a statesman to become the virtual conscience of his nation during the bloodiest rift in it's history and spirit; his vilification in the South; his assassination; and his glorification in the Northern states. What many of us may not know are the particular incidents, decisions, and qualities which created the most extraordinary figure in out political history. In this one - volume biography of Abraham Lincoln, Benjamin P. Thomas presents all the significant events and achievements in the life of one of the greatest presidents, and greatest men, in American history. These achievements, Thomas maintains, are a matter of record. There is none of the easy myth - making and hero worship that often mar both longer and shorter biographical treatments. In Abraham Lincoln readers will find little of the lyrical and romanticized Lincoln, nor will they encounter the historically possible but imagined situations which sometimes adorn Carl Sandburg's narrative. What they will find is a full account of the rise to power of a skillful politician and complicated man, who took on an enourmous amount of personal and public responsibility during the greatest crisis in our nation's history. Clearly an admirer of our sixteenth president, Thomas allows the story of Lincoln's successes and failures, and his priviate tragedies, to take its natural course to a regrettable and unnatural end. He permits both the character of the man and the weighty, worrisome decisions of the president to speak eloquently for themeselves. In summing up the Lincoln legacy, Thomas achieves an eloquence of his own: Lincoln saw his countrymen as inheritors of a trust. To them it had been given to make democracy succeed, to cleanse it of thehypocrisies that deprive it of its just example in the world. For in democracy, made genuine, he saw our last, best hope of frustrating any tyrant who seeks to regiment or debase or mislead any people, anywhere and of achieving peace on earth and good will among men and woman through the universal liberty of mankind.	2002-03-23
US	38857584	R30V2ULCLQ8JVW	0195150996	19765257	Abraham Lincoln and Civil War America: A Biography	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Abraham Lincoln And Civil War America	William Gienapp's Abraham Lincoln and Civil War America answers a longstanding need for a biography of Lincoln manageable in size, accessible in style, and wise and balanced in content. Lincoln appers on every page of the book and is never lost sight of in the welter of events. He emerges from the text a real believable person, an individual and persuasive assessment of Lincoln's leadership abilities, the finest such appraisal avilable anywhere.	2002-03-22
