US	38870642	RAS34MN7QYP2Z	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tips for reading Les Miserable and savoring it..............	Having not read many literature books in my lifetime, undertaking to read one of the finest piece of work ever written is a challenge.<br /><br />If you are like me and have read the reviews on Amazon before tackling this gigantic novel then I do not need to go on about how great this book is and what it is all about.<br /><br />Also, if like me, you are a beginner in the world of fine literature, the following are a few tips I would give to those who haven't read Les Miserables.  Here goes:<br /><br />1.  Get the book and do not be intimidated by its size.  It is huge but the chapters are not very long.<br /><br />2.  Make sure to buy the Signet Classic version translated by Lee Fahnestock and Norman MacAfee (ISBN 0-451-5256-4).  One reviewer said that this was the best version available and I totally agree with that.  This is the new version based on the 19th Century Charles E. Wilbour translation.  I had another version of this book and this one is by far the only completely unabridged paperback and also more reader-friendly.<br /><br />3.  Have a dictionary handy as there are many words that need translation.<br /><br />4.  Knowing the French language/history is a bonus but not required.<br /><br />5.  Have patience - this book will require time to read and when I say read, I mean savor each word.  Do not read hastily or skip over parts that you think are not important.  Yes, Mr. Hugo is very meticulous and detail-oriented in his description of characters, things and places but by reading and in some cases (like me), re-reading you will realize that they were written because they are essential to the plot of this book.  Also make sure that when you are reading the book, there are no distractions, i.e., tv, radio...as this book requires total concentration in order to fully appreciate it.<br /><br />6.  Do not be tempted to see the movie or show instead of reading the book.  Read the book first and then go see the show or watch the movie if you want to.  Be prepared to be disappointed with movie/musical as they cannot convey the, emotion, wisdom, love, etc... contained in the written version.  Seeing the movie/musical instead or reading the book is like watching a Yankees game on TV instead of being at the stadium in NYC cheering along with the rest of the fans.  Well you get my drift....<br /><br />7.  Be prepared to be changed by this book.  No, it is not the Bible but it does deal with all aspect of human emotions and by reading it, you will want to be a better person.  I know I do!!!<br /><br />With that being said, enjoy the book as it is a reading experience that you will not soon forget.	2005-03-09
US	38870642	R16G4OVNT4TPU2	0060586370	792523041	The Way the Crow Flies: A Novel (P.S.)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	It could not pull me in, so I pulled out!!!	When I picked this book up at Target it really looked promising (who knows it might be a great book).  As always, before I embark on a lengthy book, I check out the reviews on Amazon.  Usually I take the good with the bad.  I was prepared to give this book a chance but after the first 100 pages, I was still asking myself \\"what is this book about\\".  Words used to describe the book was anger, pain, thriller, mystery, espionage, etc...  I am sorry but if after the first couple of chapters a book does not pull me in, then I pull out.  This might be a great book, I am not saying that it is not, all I am saying is that it gets off to a very SLOW start.  I would also have to agree with some of the reader's comments, the German, French or whatever language the author dispersed throughout the book did nothing to enhance the book, it only served to further annoy me.  Again, this is my opinion and does not reflect on the book as a whole, since I was not able to move past page 102.	2005-03-04
US	38870642	R15HNM7V5DX0TC	0446611212	147933002	Violets Are Blue (Alex Cross)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	What a bizarre storyline...	I wanted to read this book because I had read Roses are Red and this was the continuation.  I wanted to \\"be there\\" when Detective Alex Cross discovered who The Mastermind was.  I went along for the ride and what a weird ride that was.  Not only is Cross trying to figure out who The Mastermind is but now he after vampires.  Yup, you heard me right, he is chasing vampires.  For anyone who is into goth, alternative lifestyle, cult and vampires, you will find this book to your liking.  Unfortunately for me, it was more information than I wanted to know and was very gory at points.  Still I kept reading because I was intent on being there when the Mastermind was finally caught.  I was there and it felt good to have this psycho gone because frankly I was sick and tired of all the horrible things he was doing just to have a show down with Detective Alex Cross.  Guess who won? <br /> <br />I gave this book a 4 because I personally did not enjoy the vampire bit but overall the book was still fast-paced and thrilling, just what I expect from a James Patterson book.  Can't wait to read Four Blind Mice.	2005-01-28
US	38870642	R3L4G268H5Q2GE	0446613770	377934412	The Fifth Angel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	When do you cross the line?	This story is about a man intent on getting revenge for his daughter who is kidnapped and tortured by a rapist.  Jack Ruskin crosses the line when he goes after serial rapists when the man that abused his daughter is given a short sentence due to a legal technicality despite the horror of his crime.  What starts out as a father righting a wrong quickly crosses over to a man who can't stop himself from becoming an avenging angel and killing sex perverts, one at a time. <br /> <br />On his trail is Amanda Lee, an FBI agent who loses her partner while trying to apprehend a sex offender.  She hesitates a minute too long before shooting the criminal and that is enough time for him to kill her partner before he dies.  His partner in crime escapes during the chaos. <br /> <br />After this fiasco, Amanda is assigned to track down Jack Ruskin, an assignment that she does not want but due to \\"bureaucracy\\", has no choice but to accept.  Teaming up with a renegade cop who thinks he is Dirty Harry, Amanda starts hunting Jack. <br /> <br />The whole story comes to a climax when the criminal who escaped while Amanda killed his partner decides to go after Amanda's children for revenge.  Now Amanda has to decide what is really important, following the law or protecting her children?  Will she go after Jack Ruskin who is killing sex offenders when one of these criminal is after her own flesh and blood? <br /> <br />The author makes you ponder on the question, \\"Is it right to take the law into your own hands and kill when someone you love is hurt or in danger?\\" <br /> <br />Read this book and draw your own conclusion.	2004-12-01
US	38870642	R2DAT3R3XZTMQX	0060083263	624926035	Sleeping Beauty (Margolin, Phillip)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Title Should Read Beauty and the Beast	Another good book by Philip Margolin.  In this case the Beauty is Ashley Spencer, a teenage soccer player who watches her best friend and father murdered.  The beast is Joshua Maxfield, a one hit wonder bestselling author who now teaches at the elite Oregon academy that Ashley starts to attend after the horrible murder.  Joshua has a reading group and Ashley's mother who is a budding author, joins his class.  Ashley's mother, Terri begins to suspect that Joshua might have killed her husband and her daughter's best friend when Joshua reads an excerpt of a book in the reading group which has details from the crime that was never released.  Terri decides to share her suspicion with Casey, the Dean of the Oregon academy but before she can say anything, Terri is stabbed to death and Casey is knocked into a coma.  Ashley who hears the screams happens to see Joshua bending over the bodies with the bloody knife in his hand. <br /> <br />At this point the story starts to pick up because Joshua flees the scene of crime.  The book keeps flipping back and forth from the past which details the murders and to the present where Miles' the brother of Casey is doing a book tour on this serial killer.   <br /> <br />I liked this book because Margolin kept the plot moving by going back and forth (past and present).  I must admit that halfway through the book I had an idea as to the identity of the killer but that did not make the book any less interesting.  As a matter of fact, I wanted to finish reading the book to find out if I had figured it correctly and to also answer the questions of WHY? <br /> <br />Margolin is one of the few authors that I will buy and read because he does not disappoint.  His books are not \\"literature\\" as one of the reviewers mentioned but if I wanted literature, I would pick up Charles Dicken or Tolstoy.  If I want exciting read then Philip Margolin it is.	2004-10-29
US	38870642	R2SKUJ1CQCP0T1	1551668319	774057267	Sweet Savage Love	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Scarlett and Rhett move over....	I have read all the of Rosemary Rogers books based on the Steve and Ginny saga.  I think that I must have been 15 at the time that I read these books and I am now 35.  Even by today's standard, these books are one of the best in historical romance.  I loved the relationship with Steve and Ginny.  It was not your average Princess meets Prince and falls in love and lives happily ever after.  Steve and Ginny had their ups and downs, they loved each other to distraction and when they were hating each other you could actually feel the dept of their hatred. <br /> <br />The best thing I like about this series was that Rosemary Rogers made you feel and care about Steve and Ginny and even when they were apart, I was alway rooting for them to stop wasting time and get back together. <br /> <br />If you like historical romances, this book will be the place to start.  If by the end of the series you do not have any feeling for Steve and Ginny then I would suggest you start all over again because you must have missed something.	2004-10-27
US	38870642	R28Q16JVSACMOM	0312983832	763704683	Nobody Knows	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Instead of Nobody Knows, Who Knew?	Who knew that an author can write such a fast paced story with a list of possible suspects only to wrap it up to quickly and not give an in-dept look as to why the villain is actually a villain.  In this book, a rapist disquised as a clown is raping women.  After I finished this book I was still wondering why a guy would need to put on circus make up in order to rape women.  What a crazy freak he was but why was this individual so fascinated by clowns and raping women.  Please do not give me the usual, my mother beat the crap out of me and my father took off. <br /> <br />I have read all of MJC's books and with the exception of her lastest, No Where to Run and her earlier books, I have been extremely disappointed.  I am not disappointed with the the author, her characters or even her plot line, I just don't like her endings.  They wrap up too quickly and leave many questions unanswered.  I sometimes like to read a book where the reason behind the crime is even more surprising than the unveiling of the villain. <br /> <br />I still give her a 4 because she keeps me reading even though I know I may not like the ending.  Hopefully like in her latest book, No Where to Run, she will continue to improve her endings.	2004-10-19
US	38870642	R3V1FQD032C6UC	0312288778	416662399	Nowhere to Run	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Finally... an ending that is not abrupt	I love Mary Jane Clark and her first 3 books were awesome but the last 2 while quick reads, I found a bit disappointing because the endings were too abrupt. This time, however, she did not miss. The story of course focuses on KEY News and its Medical Correspondent/Producer Anabelle Murphy. The story  deals with the issue of anthrax which while is a very serious issue was dealt with in a way that did not make for a disturbing read. The plot starts of with a KEY employee who while delivering information on anthrax, surprises the world and the KEY employees by showing a tube of anthrax on live TV. Now the FBI is involved in trying to get John Lee, MD to reveal who gave him the anthrax. Meanwhile, KEY employees and others are starting to die due to the anthrax poisoning. As the FBI continue to delve into the source of the anthrax, a lab report comes back stating that the tube that Dr. John Lee used on the show was actually a tube of powdered sugar. This leads to the interesting question of who has the tube of anthrax and why are people being killed. The killer actually has targeted Anabelle who not only has to find out who killed her ex-boyfriend, KEY employee Jerome Henning but who also has to deal with a husband who is dealing with 9/11 post traumatic disorder. I gave this book a 5 because Mary Jane Clark did a fine job of dealing with difficult issues and when the killer is finally revealed, you will be surprised at to who it is and at least you will have a reason as to why the killer was motivated to kill. <br /> <br />As always with MJC, you get a quick read with multiple suspects to play around with and guess who is the real villain. <br />	2004-10-18
US	38870642	R30PMM48UOVJHQ	0743216490	738312072	Hollywood Divorces (Collins, Jackie)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	She's gone back to Hollywood	Jackie Collin books are always a fun read but lately she had departed from the Hollywood, rock and roll and supermodel scene.  She's back again and boy have we missed her.  This time her book concentrates on 3 women who have made it big in Hollywood and their success has cost them their marriage and true love.  It is fun figuring out who the main characters are based on. <br /> <br />Of course Lola is JLo and Serena Lake is Meg Ryan but others I had trouble figuring out but anyways, it was a fun read.  Welcome back Jackie, we missed you.	2004-10-09
US	38870642	R3O2QF5F6LW4I3	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	5	14	19	N	N	THIS IS NOT A POLITICAL FORUM-STICK TO A REVIEW	Before I bought the book I decided to read some of the reviews on Amazon as they have served me very well in the past.  This time, I was disappointed.  I think readers of this book are confused.  This is not a forum for a political debate on Democrats vs Republicans or Bill Clinton vs George Bush.  This is specifically designed to give a review of the book and its contents not express political views, likes or dislikes.  If you have read the reviews, you will notice that 1) most Democrats loved the book and Bill Clinton and 2) most Republicans hated the book and Bill Clinton and think that he is the greatest liar of our generation.    I like Bill Clinton despite his flaws and thought that he was a good President and that is why I decided to buy the book (by the way, those who are whining about how they wasted their valuable money buying this \\"trash\\", too bad,,,no one put a gun to your head and forced you to buy it).  I haven't finished the whole book but what I have read so far is excellent.  You get to know a whole other side of Bill.  You get to know him as a son, husband and father and not as the President who ruined our country because he slept with another woman.      I like his attention to detail and in reading him describe his childhood and how things that were said to him as a child or people who touched his life as a child, it is if I am reading about my childhood.  Throughout the course of the book, you will hear Bill describe an event that is significant but at the moment it occurred he did not know it.  Personally, I can relate to that.  Many things happen and our said throughout our childhood and at the moment it is said, it might not have an impact but as you grow older and you mature, some of those things come to memory and it is as if a light bulb is turned on.  You suddenly realize the impact of some off-hand comment made by a stranger when you were 13.  Reading about Bill's childhood is like remembering some of my childhood.      Bill writes the story in an abstract sort of way, not keeping to a timetable, its as if he is writing as it comes to his head.  The weird part is that it makes sense.  Many people feel that he goes into too much detail but I don't feel that way, I want to learn as much as I can about a man who was our President.  Many people feel that this book is his way of justifying his mistakes and blaming others but I feel that he is writing the events as they happened not trying to put a \\"spin\\" on events or mistakes.    People want to judge him for his mistakes but I agree with Bill in his opening statement, God is the only person to judge.  Also many readers call Bill the biggest liar ever and while it may be true that he was caught in some lies and it was made public -- how can anyone call anyone else a liar.  To call someone a liar is to know that person and have lived with that person and grown up with that person.  People who say he is a liar should look back on their lives and see how many lies they told or how many mistakes they made -- the only difference between us and Bill is that his deeds were made public because of who he was. Being a President means running the country and those who were looking for an exemplary figure to emulate should look higher above as no one is perfect except GOD.    I think he was a good President and after reading some of this book, I think he is a good writer and a good human being.    With that being said, go and buy the book and place yourself in Clinton's shoes and I dare you to say that having been in his shoes, you would have not made some mistakes.	2004-09-23
US	38870642	R4JJSS5D2OIY0	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Becky takes on the Big Apple	She is at it again.  It seems that Becky Bloomfied has not learned much from her previous mistakes.  Thank God!<br /><br />Bringing Becky, the recovered shopaholic to NYC is the equivalent of bringing a reformed alcoholic to a keg party.  You just can't do that an not expect disaster.<br /><br />The book is about how Becky manages to get herself in trouble even though she is continent away from home.  Of course Becky bounces back and what really makes her an admirable character is that she does fess up to her mistake and does not expect anyone to help her get out of them.<br /><br />I think that Sophie Kinsella has created one of the most funniest heroine of our times and it would be neat to meet Ms. Kinsella to see if she is as wacky as Becky (I hope so).<br /><br />FOr those who have not read Confessions of a Shopaholic, do yourself a favor and read it.  If you are a women of 80's and 90's who love clothes, purses, shoes and accessories then you will love the \\"Shopaholic\\" series.  By the first or second book you should be able to see bits and pieces of yourself in Becky.<br /><br />Sophie Kinsella is one of my favorite authors and i think it is because she understands me so well.  Of course I am not on the same scale as Becky but I love to shop to make me feel good or to cheer me up when I feel depresses.  Now if only I had a happy ending as each of Becky's books do, then I would be happy.  I guess I will have to settle for the book's ending.<br /><br />The book is funny, touching and a bit sad at time but I still loved it and can't wait for her 3rd book, Shopaholic Ties The Knot. I will be interesting to find out if Becky can keep to her budget	2004-09-16
US	38870642	R1JVP8C4EHQEBR	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Last to die gets the dough!	This is my 3rd Grippando book and one of the best whodonits that I have read in a while <br /> <br />Imagine this, Sally Fenning is a beautiful, young woman who has decided to end her life.  Her life has been tragic since her young daughter was murdered and she was stabbed by a stalker who the police failed to catch and she feels she has nothing to gain.  She asks a contract killer to do the deed.  He refuses, she ends up dead anyway and she names him in her will.  Along with Tatum, the contract killer, Sally also adds her ex-husband, the divorce lawyer, the DA that covered the investigation, a reporter who was planning on writing a book based on Sally's tragedy and finally a stranger name Alan Sirap to the list of beneficiaries.  The amount of the inheritance is $46 million and only the last person living will collect the \\"jackpot\\". <br /> <br />This is where the fun starts.  Jack Swyteck, best friend of the contract killer's brother is hired to defend Tatum and try to secure the inheritance for his client.  Jack is too much of a good guy not to be bothered by the fact that this beautiful mysterious women decides to include the person that she hired to kill her, in her will. <br /> <br />As you coast along the book, you will start to understand the reason why each person was named in the will and you will also have fun trying to figure out who is killing each of the beneficiaries and who is Alan Sirap? <br /> <br />Grippando keeps me entertained and also on the edge of my seat, trying to answer all the questions before the book ended. <br /> <br />He just seems to get better with each book that I read.  One of my fav.	2004-09-13
US	38870642	R1T1YW5ZT6D4T8	0312981961	830002770	Close To You	Books	4	3	3	N	N	WHY?	I love MJC's books but I am inclined to agree with other reviewers that she wraps up her books too fast and that when the villain is ultimately revealed, there is no explanation behind his/her motivation to commit the crime. <br /> <br />In this book, she brings back Eliza Blake who is a loveable character from her previous books.  Eliza who is a news anchorwoman is being stalked not by one but by a few psychos.  The book moves along quickly and the reason behind some of the stalking was a bit surprising but when you find out who the \\"REAL\\" stalker turns out to be, you will have one burning question.  WHY?  We know that stalkers are usually crazy people who get fixated on someone but there usually is a reason why they become fixated (the person they are stalking, reminds them of someone who they hate/loved) but in this case you really don't get a grasp of why this person was stalking Eliza. <br /> <br />MJC has the potential to be another Mary Clark Higgins but she needs to work on her endings and this is why I am rating this book a 4 instead of a 5.	2004-08-31
US	38870642	RGV6PYUGP6Z21	0449206246	719310790	Wheel of Fortune	Books	5	11	12	N	N	This book is worth 10 Stars.....ABSOLUTE BEST BOOK	This is the BEST book I have ever read. I know that many people place Gone With The Wind at the top of the list (and rightly so) but I consider this book the &quot;English Version&quot; of Gone with the Wind. <br />  <br /> Instead of Scarlett and the Tara Plantation, you get to meet the Goodwins and their magical home Oxmoon. This book is divided into six chapters with each chapter being told by a different character. By doing this, the author gives the readers a chance to see other characters from different points of view. She also ends each chapter with a bang and the next character picks it up where the last character left off. <br />  <br /> If you are looking for a book filled with love, hate, envy, greed, murder and so forth, you don't need to look any further. The book is over a 1000 pages long but it moves right along. I found myself wishing that it had been 2000 pages long. I did not want the book to end. Lucky for me, this author has other great novels. <br />  <br /> PLEASE GET THIS BOOK AND READ THE FIRST CHAPTER, YOU WILL BE HOOKED!!!!! <br />  <br /> I would go on but I don't want to bore any readers and anyways I am starting on another Susan Howatch book. <br />  <br /> If anyone has read this book and knows of another great author such as Susan Howatch (I doubt it), please email me at mitzibilly@yahoo.com.	2004-08-06
US	38870642	R2N0A232WYPDXL	0061097470	350138143	Under Cover of Darkness	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Under the Cover of Another Great Book	Ok, I only gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 because the ending of the story left me twisting in the wind. This could have been 5 stars but since I am still puzzled as to what motivated the villain(s) in this book, I will leave it at 4 stars.    The story is about a lawyer who finds out that his wife is missing.  The plot of the story centers on the fact that he does not know if his wife actually ran away or if she was kidnapped.  To make it more intriguing, there is a person committing murders and the latest murder victim resembles the missing wife.    The book is a little deep in that throughout the book the lawyer/husband/father finds himself realizing that he did not know his wife as well as he thought he did.  In realizing that he has chosen his career over his family, he wonders if he is somewhat to blame for what is happening with his wife and how his little girl is reacting to the whole situation.    The storyline was pretty good until you get to the last half of the book and you realize that you have stepped into the twighlight zone.  Still, it is pretty good book compared to others I have read.	2004-07-27
US	38870642	R12LH6PKF9YBYH	0061097624	483641274	Found Money	Books	5	4	5	N	N	&quot;FOUND&quot; - New Favorite Suspense Author	This is my first book from James Grippando but certainly won't be the last.  The book starts with a bang and it builds momentum.<br />When Ryan's father died, he left him 2 million dollars in the attic.  It is up to Ryan to figure out where and how his father got his hand on so much cash.<br />At the time that Ryan is learning about this unexpected inheritance, Amy Parkens whose mother died of a suicide 20 years ago receives two hundred thousand from Ryan's father.<br />Ryan and Amy are drawn together in order to solve the mystery of who was Frank Duffy.  <br />Without giving the plot, I have to say that this was one of the quickest books I have ever read because I gobbled up 450 pages in less than 3 days (a record for me).  Once Ryan and Amy start searching for answers they stir the pot and pretty soon you have an ex-wife, slimy lawyer, malicious brother-in-law and a miserable sister, all dying to get their hands on the money.  <br />Well you can guess how the book progresses, each time you think you have figured out who is guilty or who is not, Grippando surprises us with another twist.<br />This was truly a good book that left me wanting to read all his books.	2004-07-20
US	38870642	R2GTTT7J4OQ9K5	0373250266	402232833	Guilty Feet	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Awesome book by Kelly Harte	I am not sure why I decided to buy this book but I am glad I did.  Maybe it was because of the whole email thing.  Jo who has left her boyfriend without giving him a reason gets mad because he doesn't try to find out why she left.  I think everyone who has read this book is guilty of doing the same thing as Jo.  Someone pisses us off, we get mad but do not let the person know why but we expect them to apologize.  That is why I liked the book so much.  Of course the plot of the book doesn't stop there.  You meet Jo's mom who is a wacko and her dad who is seeing Jo's boss.  Meanwhile Jo is sleeping with her boss's son.  I could go on but I won't.  Needless to say, all the things going on in everyone's life ties into Jo's problems but by the end of the book, everything is somewhat resolved.<br />I agree with one viewer's opinion that this was a great book without the usual everyone lives happily ever after.  <br />Great book, funny and a quick read.  Buy it,,,you won't regret it.	2004-07-06
US	38870642	R26ISLV5O2KVSA	0446607568	928648620	The Red Zone	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Too much football	Ok so I know that Tim Green was a former football player so it shouldn't surprise me that this book was filled with football &quot;talk&quot;.  I know this but I still thought he went into too much detail about football and strategies.  Aside from the football description(s) the book was pretty good.  The only thing I would have to say is that if you don't like gory, bloody crime scenes, then this is not the book for you.  The story is about a famous football player that is accused of killing the owner of the team.  He is made to look even more guilty because he is having an affair with the wife of the owner.  As you read along, you will see that the &quot;killer&quot; is a deranged psychopath who gets his thrills by decapitating his victim.  So if you don't mind a few graphic scenes then you will like the book because you are not really sure who is the bad guy until you are almost done with the book and even after the book is about to end, the author gives us a surprise twist.	2004-06-01
US	38870642	R2564TF8X414L5	0446609951	762072454	The Letter of the Law	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Can Justice Be Served?	This is my first Tim Green book and I was delighted.  After putting off reading this book for months, I have to kick myself for not reading it sooner.  The book is about a lawyer named Casey who is asked to represent her law professor.  He is accused of killing a student by cutting her up and removing her gall bladder.  Pretty disgusting.  <br />The whole premise of the book is how Casey manages to get the professor acquitted to then find out that he may have done it.  In order to free the professor, she had to attack the character of the dead girl's father on the stand.  In freeing her professor, Casey is now stuck between a serial killer and the dead girls father's hatred.<br />What makes this book unique is that Casey is not that likable for heroine.  She is shown as being very materialistic and doing whatever she can to win a case.  However that all changes when she sets a killer free and she starts questioning where she went wrong.  <br />Good book and Tim Green does a great job of laying out the plot.	2004-05-21
US	38870642	R3SIONYG8Y0BC3	0553569791	494236091	The Last Innocent Man	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Is there such a thing as an Inocent Man?	Another great book by Philip Margolin.  This book is about a lawyer who is asked to defend a man who is accused of killing a prostitute.  This book is a mystery but it also deals with a lawyer who is questioning the reasons of why he is a lawyer.  I think at some point, any criminal lawyer with integrity starts questioning the reasons why they are defending criminals.  The thing that makes this book so remarkable is that it really opened my eyes about the legal system.  Sometimes you wonder how lawyers can defend people that commit heinous crimes and this books explains why even the worst serial killer is entitled to a proper defense.  After reading this book and enjoying the storyline, I also had a new respect for our legal system.  It may not always work in favor of the innocent party but most time you do get the bad guy and you lock em up and throw away the key.	2004-05-20
US	38870642	R1MII51K6YEI5S	074320607X	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Deadly Class Reunion	I am a fan of Mary Higgins Clark (MHC) so any book that she writes is always a treat.  This book is no exception.  The book revolves around Jean Sheridan who is attending a class reunion and finds that most of the girls that she went to school with have died under mysterious circumstances.  Not only does she have to worry about one of her classmate (Laura) who has disappeared from the reunion but someone is sending Jean threatening notes regarding her daughter, which she gave up for adoption when she graduated from Stonecraft Academy.  This book is a little bit different in that MHC gives us many suspects (5 or 6).  During this story you are continually trying to guess which of the former classmate is threatening Jean and her daughter.  <br />I only gave the book 4 stars because when the psycho is finally unveiled you are left wondering why was he so obsessed with Jean.  Throughtout the story MHC gives us a little bit of what is going on in his head and why he is &quot;loco&quot; but you kinda expect a confrontation with the killer and Jean, who was really his target all along.  I enjoyed the book very much but I just wanted the ending to have more of an impact.	2004-05-20
US	38870642	R1PV37WPL6OO32	0060083255	879661551	Ties That Bind	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An author who always pleases	I just want to start of by saying that some people take writing a review a bit too seriously.  When I read reviews on Amazon it is to get a feel for people's reaction to a book, either they loved or hated it.  I am tired of reading detailed synopsis on books or of people criticizing the authors just because they did not like the book.  Either you like or you hate a story.  A quick overview of the book with an honest opinion is all that is needed.  <br />With that said, I want to say that I loved this book.  Philip Margolin is one of those authors who has yet to fail pleasing me.  I buy his book without reading what it is about.  This book is no exception.  The story revolves around Amanda Jaffe, a lawyer who asked to represent a pimp who is accused of killing a US Senator.  Amanda is a character from one of his previous books where she is kidnapped and tortured by a serial killer.  This book not only gives us the usual twist and turns of a whodonit but it also focuses on how Amanda is learning to live with the traumatic experience of being tortured by a psycho.  For anyone who  has had something very bad happen to them, this book is good in describing the emotions of a person who suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder.  <br />Good book, great ending, quick read....THE END!	2004-05-17
US	38870642	R2FF7XW10K3JU4	0743424107	787478884	Deadly Embrace	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is Michael and Madison another Gino and Lucky?	I love Jackie Collins' books because they are purely entertainment.  I gave this one 4 stars because it does not compare to Chances (her best book ever) but as I said before, if you are looking for a quick, entertaining read then you do not have to go any further than Jackie Collins.  She always deliver wacky characters with major problems that somehow get resolved in the end.  This story explores more of Madison's background.  It focuses on her father who was accused of killing Madison's real mother and who is keeping a secret (he has another family in Vegas) from Madison.  I can't help but think that Madison is another version of Lucky. Both Lucky and Madison are beautiful, dark-haired independent women who lose their mother at an early age in tragic circumstance but they still have their father who try to control their lives by shielding them from certain truths.  Lucky for us, Madison is also a feisty women who has her own ideas on how to survive in a male-dominated world.  The book goes back and forth between all major players in Michael and Madison's world and ties up neatly in the end when everyone learns about each other.  The only thing that I would have liked to see in this book would have been more on Madison's boyfriend.  He was mentioned once or twice but that was it.	2004-05-07
US	38870642	R2QM8SGSF4WOK3	0340632461	585271145	French Relations	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Most Likable Heroine - Tash French	I got into Fiona Walker after reading Jilly Cooper (another English author).  I had bought all of Jilly's book and was hoping to find another Brit author as good as Jilly and Amazon recommended Fiona Walker.<br />I then went on a shopping spree and bought most of Fiona's book.  I started with French Relations since it was her first book.  At first I was disappointed because it did not &quot;suck&quot; me in like Jilly's book but I perservered and struggled throught the first chapter.  I don't know what happened but once I got into reading the book, I could not stop.<br />The book is about a girl named Tash who is asked to spend the summer with her family in a French chateau.  She really doesn't want to spend the summer with her neurotic family but decides to do it when she breaks up with her boyfriend. <br />You then move on to the Chateau where you will meet her family, friends and foe.  The main characters in this book are Tash, a dashing actor named Niall and a gorgeous sportsman named Hugo.  I won't give the plot away only to say that Tash is torn between these two men.<br />This book is different because Tash is unlike most heroine.  She is not described as beautiful, graceful or feminine.  She is actually klutzy, shy, tomboyish and thinks of herself as a freak because she has different colored eyes.  I like the fact that the author has made a heroine that we could relate to.  The fact that she has such a dysfunctional family and is so unsure of herself makes me root for Tash.<br />Buy this book and read it along with Well Groomed.  You will thoroughly enjoy Tash and her family and you will get a taste of Fiona Walker.  I love her......	2004-04-27
US	38870642	R2NYERLZ7RFOZI	0451200551	399447374	Murder of a Small-Town Honey (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Scumble River sounds alot like Cabot Cove	I picked up the Scumble River mystery series because I was intrigued when I came across the title of Murder of Ken and Barbie.  When I found it that it was a series, I decided that I had to get the entire series and read it in chronological order.<br />For a first time author, this book was pretty good.  I can't help but compare it to Muder She Wrote.  The town Scumble River sounds alot like Cabot Cove and so do all the towns folk.  Skye is a young beautiful woman who is a School Psychologist while Jessica Fletcher is a sweet old lady who is a Mystery Writer.  While this is a contrast, both are alike in that they get involved in a murder which they have to solve in order to clear a friend or relative.  In this book, Skye has to help clear her brother, Vince who has been accused of killing a woman named Honey.  Both Jessica and Skye are alike in that they rub suspect the wrong way by trying to poke around for information.<br />I happen to like Murder She Wrote so I enjoyed this cozy little book which I gave 4 stars only because it was not as suspenseful as most mystery.  However I do like the fact that the author made a likable heroine and that her book does not rely on sex, violence and gore in order to attract an audience.  I did not guess the identity of the killer until the last 10 pages or so just like on Murder She Wrote, you have to wait until the last 10 minutes of the show in order to have JB Fletcher reveal the killer and their motive.	2004-04-22
US	38870642	R38UKW4UXZJO36	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	2	4	N	N	READ WITH AN OPEN MIND	Before I bought this book, I read the online reviews which suprisingly enough were very mixed.  I have not finished reading the book yet but felt compelled to write a review because after reading this book and reading some of the reviews, I had to disagree with some of the negative reviews.    One of the unique things about the book is how the author narrates the book.  While one reviewer commented that the author was arrogant in doing this and that the author was making us (the readers) look stupid, I got no such impression.  Part of what makes writing so beautiful is that it allows an author to express his view in any shape, way or form.  I am sure that the author did not narrate the book in this way to make his public feel \\"stupid\\" but to tell this story in a distinct way.    This book covers many sordid subject such as  poverty, prostitution, madness (to name a few) so I am not surprised that many of the reviewers are disgusted by the detail found in this book but I found the author's attention to detail to make his book even more engrossing.  I mean, you don't have to like everything you read.  You have to keep an open mind when reading books such as this one and appreciate the detail that author is trying to convey.    As for those readers who have been upset with the ending of this book, I personally find that books that wrap up too neatly leaving me feeling satisfied but only for a moment.  Books that have an unexpected ending leave me thinking about the book long after I have started another one.    One must admire an author that can get so many to express a multitude of different emotions regarding one book.    I can't wait to finish the book even if the ending is not what I expect.  I won't be disappointed because so far the book has kept me interested which is more than I can say for some other books on the market.	2004-03-23
US	38870642	RD8V5F9LL349I	0552132640	965065358	Rivals	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The First of Jilly, certainly not the last....	I first heard of Jilly, when I bought the book Apassionata at a second-hand store.  I started to read it but found out that many of the characters in this story, were in her earlier books.  I decided to buy all her books written before Apassionata.  I wanted to read them in order.  Unfortunately, Rivals (which by the way is the same book as &quot;Players&quot;)came first and I could not resist.  I started reading and could not stop.  This is a first for me because I am the type of person that has to be reading 3 books at one time.  With Rival, I tried picking up other books to read but could not concentrate on them.  It was awesome.  Unlike other reviewers, I won't give the plot away but I will tell you that the book is about 4 men vying for control of the British Televison Franchise.  The villain in this book is Tony and his 3 adversaries are Declan, Rupert and Freddie.  Of course the book has the usual love triangle, backstabbing and name dropping as in other books of this nature but Jilly has the awesome talent of either making you like or hate a character, no in betweens.  The book up wraps up very nicely at the the end and who does not like a happy ending?  Can't wait to read her other books.  Way to go Jilly............	2004-02-23
US	38870642	R2OUTYTC40EABM	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Confessions of ME!!!!	I bought this book because lately it seems that all the good books are coming from the other side of the world (England vs United States).  Am I glad that I bought the book because it is one of the funniest books I have ever read.  I think what I most like about the books are the letters from Becky's bank and creditors.  I too was once chased by creditors and unfortunately they were not as sympathetic as the creditor's in Becky's life were.  I laughed out loud when I read the excuses she would give them in order not to meet with them.<br />Becky is a likeable character and what makes this book really work is the conversations she has in her head when she is about to buy something frivolous.  I think most people that are reading this book can relate to those conversations where you try and convince yourself that you are doing the world a favor by buying an item that you must have.<br />Needless to say, I went ahead and bought Sophie Kinsella's two other Shopaholic books and did not need to have a conversation with myself although my husband has me on a &quot;strict&quot; budget.  Go ahead, read it.....you will enjoy it.....	2004-02-04
US	38870642	R16KGAX35N61II	0316734357	538915089	The A-List: A Novel	Books	5	28	35	N	N	Better than Gossip Girl	I bought this book and read it in one day.  Unlike Gossip Girl which I also bought, this book is a classier version.  The main character in The A-List is a likable person.  She goes to LA on an adventure expedition and falls in love with a guy she met on the airplane flight.  Unfortunately for Anna, the three other main characters all love the same guy.  This makes the book kinda corny because why would three very rich girls from California be in love with the same guy when there are other fishes in the sea.  The difference between this book and Gossip Girls is that each of the girls although very bitchy come across likeable because the author provides you a little background information regarding the main characters.  The book is also good because it doesn't focus solely sex and drugs which happens to be a big part of rich boys and girls in high society who have so much money and little parental guidance,,,,think Paris Hilton.	2004-02-03
US	38870642	R2U7DTGQBTKHLN	0786888482	621970565	Social Crimes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Peek into the Glitzy World of the Wealthy	I bought this book because of the review Dominick Dunne gave it on the cover.  Dominick Dunne is one of my favorite authors.  I admit, I am one of those people who loves to read about the fabulously rich folks in New York.  The first sentence in this novel grabs you and doesn't let go.  Ms. Hitchcock delivers lots of details of how bitchy and superficial the really wealthy people are and I love reading about it.  The book itself was great.  It was interesting enough that I read it in 3 days but I was a bit disappointed with the ending.  I won't give away the finale but it was not what I expected and I felt let down.  I guess not all books can have the ending that you want but I just expected more from this one.  Besides the ending the book was awesome.	2004-01-28
US	38870642	R21L4TXCM468I4	0312928440	927641354	Leading Lady	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Coscarelli keeps getting better	I discovered Kate Coscarelli by reading a review of her in one of my other books.  They were reviewing Fame &amp; Fortune and gave it a good review that I thought I would read it.  Am I glad I did.  After reading that book, I went on to read Leading Lady.  It did not disappoint me at all.  Kate likes to write about strong women characters which I like.  This book is based on the mother of Bunny, a child turned women actress and her neglected grand daughter, Chelsea (Bunny's daughter).  The book was very interesting because I love reading about Hollywood and the world of movie making.  When I started reading the book, I really hated the mother of the actress.  Her name is Laverne and she exploited her child Bunny in order to make her the world's most loved actress.  While reading the book, I kept asking myself, if Laverne did it for Bunny or was she doing all the sneaky handed stuff for herself.  Meanwhile I loved the grandchild Chelsea because despite having to live with these two women, she turned out to be pretty normal.  Towards the end of the book, my feelings about the three women to start to change a little and the book has a surprise twist at the end which is really surprising and made the book even better.  Can't say enough about how entertaining this book was without giving out the plot which some reviewers do, thus spoiling the whole book.	2004-01-09
US	38870642	R1GVAC7MUUY8WM	0312977433	315738847	Let Me Whisper in Your Ear	Books	5	3	3	N	N	She keeps getting better	This was my third Mary Jane book and I absolutely loved it.  I read it so fast because it was so interesting with different plots going and because her chapters are short.  I am one of those people that enjoy books that have short chapters.  This book also appealed to me because Mary Jane writes about people in distress, like Laura's father who is a hopeless alcoholic and her new boyfriend who has a drug habit.  Nice to know that there are authors out there that keep in touch with the real world and know how to work it into a plot line without demoralizing people because they have human weaknesses.  I can't wait to read her other books.	2003-12-23
US	38870642	R2NSVUVSREKMRC	0312969244	144058374	Do You Want to Know a Secret?: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another Mary Higgins Clark	I was at a book sale when I spotted Mary Jane's 3 first novels.  I decided to buy them because I had read all of Mary Higgins Clark's novels and Mary Jane's books reminded me of Mary Higgins Clark.  I decided, why not, the worst that can happen is that it is a boring book and the best that could happen is that I discover another great author like Mary Higgins Clark, James Patterson and Philip Margolin.  Was I glad I did.  This first novel was a bit slow at the beginning but it had enough suspense to keep me reading and the ending surprised me.  I was happy to find out that Mary Jane has quick, snappy diaglogue with a mix of characters that keeps you guessing.  Needless to say, her writing keeps getting better.  Yep, the other two books were even better.	2003-12-23
US	38870642	R713YSBBYQ2A5	1558749640	792188981	The Schwarzbein Principle II, The "Transition": A Regeneration Program to Prevent and Reverse Accelerated Aging	Books	5	99	101	N	N	READ CHAPTER 11	I bought The Schwarzbein Principle and found it to be a great book about health and nutrition.  When I heard she had a second book out there, of course I ran out to buy it.  This book is similar to the first one and the only major difference is that she goes more into depth about the subjects she covered in the first one and she added some other subjects.  There is one chapter in this book that makes buying this book worthwhile, that is Chapter 11 - Healthy Nutrition.  This chapter has so much information regarding do's and don'ts of a well balanced nutrition, that if I had to pick one chapter out of the whole book, this would be it.  With this chapter, you will be happy to find out that there is a vast array of healthy foods so that you won't feel like you are on a diet while trying to get back on track with your well-being.  One thing about the Schwarbein Principle, it is not a diet, it is a way to healthy living.  I also bought her cookbook and was very delighted to find some tasty, easy to prepare recipes.  Way to go Diana............	2003-12-09
US	38870642	R23FZ6K2RE5VYG	0312280203	794730447	Fame and Fortune	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Jackie Collins and Nora Roberts mixed into one	This was my first Kate Coscarelli book that I read.  After reading it, I went online and bought all her other books.  I prefer legal/mystery/suspense books but once in a while I want to read a trashy book, a fluff book, like Jackie Collins.  I have not been able to find someone who writes great trashy Hollyood books like Jackie.  Kate Coscarelli is the next best thing.  Her books suck you right in but they have a little more depth, like a Nora Roberts' book.  This book was awesome.  The plot revolves around 4 women who are going through some sort of crisis and they are all connected in some way.  It was very interesting and I could not wait to get home, put on some PJ's, grab some hot chocolate and sit in my warm bed to finish this book.  I am actually disappointed that her books are not that long (only 300-400 pages).  This would make a great Lifetime movie of the week.	2003-12-04
US	38870642	RIEG523CWOK9W	1558746803	878546888	The Schwarzbein Principle: The Truth about Losing Weight, Being Healthy and Feeling Younger	Books	4	56	59	N	N	Accelerated Metabolic aging,,,,blah blah blah	Don't get turned off by my title.  I think this is one of the best health/nutritional books out there because it does not start with the typical &quot; have you tried so many diets and failed, well this is the diet for you &quot;.  Diana's book was very straight forward and easy to understand.  She follows each chapter with someone's real life experience which I found to be encouraging.  However, my husband (who also read the book)and I felt that Diana talked too much about accelerated metabolic aging to the point where it turned us off.  She also wrote about how medications will eventually kill -- so get off medication.  I don't agree with her on that point because there are many people out there who are on medication for serious illnesses and unless she can come up with a specific cure for strokes, diabetes, depression, cancer then she should lighten up on the topic.  Having said that, most of her book was on target, providing the one useful fact that everyone should know, if you can't grow it or pick it then don't eat it.  In other words, there is lots of healthy food out there to choose from instead of stopping at the nearest Burger King for cheeseburger, fries and shakes.  She has guidelines that a normal person such as myself can live with, unlike Dr. Atkins who says no carbohydrates for the first two weeks.  Both my husband and I read her book and followed her guidelines and we both were losing weight and feeling good.  I must admit that I do have a sweet tooth and salty fingers so I have &quot;fallen&quot; off the wagon but I plan on watching what I eat so I will pick up my copy Schwarzbein Principle to give myself a refresher course.  I did buy her second book but I would have to agree with one of the reviewers of this book, it is similar to the first book (like a movie sequel).  The first book is the best so don't bother to waste your money.	2003-12-03
