US	38923840	R13UG20N30UAR2	0873498992	739433820	Effective Handgun Defense: A Comprehensive Guide to Concealed Carry	Books	2	19	20	N	N	Hardware overview	As many reviewers have said before, this book is not about handgun defense. Rather, there is some interesting information about the technical and historical aspects of handgunning. This is very odd, given the title of the book and the notion that the author makes in the book stating that tactics are more important than tools. Still, he concentrates almost exclusively on hardware. <br /> <br />The book is well written and interesting to read, but if you are looking for a book about effective handgun defense, don't buy Effective Handgun Defense.	2005-07-12
US	38923840	R19BTXXVA7V6AC	0312331770	201154766	Krav Maga: An Essential Guide to the Renowned Method--for Fitness and Self-Defense	Books	2	9	16	N	Y	The first two levels	Until now, there has not been a book on krav maga techniques that relates to a average practitioner. This book tries to fill that gap, but in my opinion, it does not do a very good job. <br /> <br />At the beginning of the book, Kahn explains why krav maga is so good self defense system. This section annoyed me a bit since Kahn is way too biased, and the text reminded me of TV infomercials. After that, he goes through the history of krav maga, explains the basic principles of krav maga, tells some basic principles of real world self defense, touches on the subject of avoidance, and so on. While it is a good thing that Kahn has covered these issues about real world self defense, he does not do a very good job about it. I even began to wonder about his expertise on these subjects. <br /> <br />Next, the book moves on to actual techniques. The book covers the first two levels of krav maga techniques, therefore the average krav maga practitioner can use the book as a reference book. Unfortunately, the techniques are instructed so vaguely that you really can't learns them from this book. There are drawings on every technique (usually 2 of 3 for every technique), but they are not very good, either. Therefore, you must seek an instructor to teach the techniques, and use this book to assist your training at home. <br /> <br />At the end of the book, there is a complete, 12-week training program intended for persons who have no previous krav maga experience, and are training at home. Unfortunately, as with the techniques, this training log is not detailed enough. For some reason, they have fitted the training program to a much too cramped chart, that has forced Kahn to keep the explanations to a minimum.  <br /> <br />As a summary, I would say that the main accomplishment of this book is that it is the first krav maga book that is aimed for the average practitioner. Unfortunately, as a manual, it is not very good one.	2005-07-12
US	38923840	RG1XREPXI2ZRF	1594860009	859027556	The New High Intensity Training: The Best Muscle-Building System You've Never Tried	Books	4	74	88	N	Y	Aimed mostly for beginners on HIT training	This book presents information and training programs using high intensity training (HIT). This book follows Arthur Jones' HIT training principles, as opposed to Mike Menzer's way. This translates to 2-3 whole body training sessions each week, using slow rep cadence.  <br /> <br />The book starts with history of HIT training. Although this information is interesting, it takes some 75 pages, before the stuff on actual training starts. The training information is presented as a complete training program that is intended for beginners on HIT training. It takes about one year to go through this training program, and after that you are considered as an advanced trainer. This approach is the book's major strength and weakness at the same time. For a beginner, it is very easy to start training, as you have a complete training program ready for use. For a more experienced trainer, however, it can be somewhat difficult to find all the information to construct your own training program. For example, all of the core principles of HIT training are collected in a box, that is for some reason hidden in the middle of section that covers the correct form of some key exercises.  <br /> <br />The main question is, does HIT training work? Well, I have been training with weights for almost 15 years, and I have reached a long-lasting plateau in bench press. I trained using the workouts in this book (although I trained only two times each week instead of three) for less than 4 months. After that, I went back to my conventional training program. At the beginning of the renewed conventional training, I noticed that I had lost quite lot of explosive strength I had prior to HIT training. However, I continued the conventional program using lighter weights. Now, after two months of conventional training, my weights in every exercise have exceeded the weights I used before HIT training, including bench press. The conclusion is, HIT training increases your strength level, but at the same time youlose some of the explosiveness. But you regain the explosiveness by using explosive movements, and you'll see that your strength levels have markedly increased.   <br /> <br />HIT training is both mentally and physically very demanding (much more so than conventional high volume training). It takes very much dedication to be able to push yourself from workout to workout to constantly improve. Therefore I feel HIT is best used as a way to boost your more conventional training. Use HIT principles for a few months before returning to your regular workout schedule, and you will see that the improvements are significant!	2005-05-26
US	38923840	R2SD9H7LUB8SRP	1581604270	209775351	Tactical Defensive Training for Real-life Encounters: Practical Self-Preservation for Law Enforcement	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Comprehensive view on self defense	In this book, famous defensive tactics author Ralph Mroz shares his unconventional view on self defense. Mroz does not just go thorough the same tactical doctrine almost every gun writer uses. Instead, he starts to explore the total field of self preservation from the ground up. The book is comprised of articles published in various magazines before, but as the text is heavily edited, it does not get repetitive, as usually happens in books that are collections of old writings. <br /> <br />This book is divided in four sections. The first one handles self defence in bigger picture, the second is on mental stuff, the third focuses on edged weapons, and the fourth handguns. In the first section, Mroz fixes his attention on self preservation, rather than self defence. He states that you should invest in the safety measures that are most likely to be of need: As you are much more likely to need skills in CPR than gunplay, you should concentrate more enegry on learning first aid than improving your shooting skills. Mroz also points out that it is illogical to train self defence, and at the same time risk your life by smoking cigarettes.  <br /> <br />That same approach is evident throughout the whole book. Mroz does not do the things the same way they have always been done, instead he strives to see the bigger picture, and starts from there instead of focusing on a details first. Mroz is one of the few innovators in the field of self defense who constantly question the old thruths. Even if you don't agree with everything he writes, you still learn more from this book than by reading yet another book of your favourite self defense author. If you have not read books or watched films by Mroz before, reading this book can be a powerful eye opener.	2005-05-03
US	38923840	R2Y4S2SO3QPFE6	1873475667	225177165	Three Second Fighter: Sniper Option	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Solid information on real-life self defense	This book includes surprisingly much concept-level information about self defence and real life fighting in less than 100 pages. There are no techniques included, unless you count three different ready positions as techniques. What this book does instead, is teach you about the concepts and principles of fighting, and more importantly, how to avoid fighting in the first place. <br /> <br />The book handles many essential skills and sectors of self defence, like awareness of one's surroundings, the anatomy of a fight and so on. There is also some information on non verbal communications, but out of necessity the information is not very profound. There are also some very good training exercises in the book.  <br /> <br />In short, this book includes surprisingly large amount of information, given the low page count. And the information is of excellent quality. As this book is very quick to read, it can be recommended to anyone who wishes to get solid information about real-life self defense.	2005-03-02
US	38923840	R3VCV479TCHJY0	0732319005	732049768	Haganah Fight To Survive! - Hardcore Self Defense Against Armed and Unarmed Attack	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Haganah system in written form	This book includes the complete haganah self defence system. You can use the book by itself, but it is designed to be used with VHS or DVD set.  <br /> <br />Haganah is self defence system that has been largely influenced by krav maga. The idea behind haganah is that all of the techniques are combat proven, and the system is being constantly evaluated and updated. What makes haganah different from other martial arts is that you don't have to study several years until you can reach the more advanced techniques. There are no hidden secrets available to only the most advanced students. Quite the opposite: Haganah training is based on military training principles, where you train all of the techniques in rotations, each of the rotations taking few months to run through. After you have gone through one rotation, you have been introduced to all of the techniques, and after few rotations, you begin to master them.  <br /> <br />Another aspect unique to haganah is thing called point of reference (POR). This means that no matter how your opponents attacks, your aim is to end up in one of three positions relative to your attacker, and after that you have three options (incapacitating, killing or taking into custody), depending what you want to accomplish. <br /> <br />The haganah system is designed so that you can learn all the moves and techniques on your own, by studying the book and instructional films, therefore you don't necessarily need a teacher (although having one wouldn't hurt). The techniques are quite simple and straightforward.  <br /> <br />The book has large pages, filled with clear illustrations. You can understand the techniques by just reading the book and studying the illustrations, but having the instructional films to support your study will help considerably. On some occasions, the details are different in the book and film. In such cases, I have gone with the instructional films.  <br /> <br />I like the haganah system very much, and would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in martial arts as pure self defence, and not as a sport. The major downside with this book is that unless you have the instructional films or a teacher, it would be hard to understand the techniques from the book alone. That is not inherent flaw with the system, but rather with the media. It simply is very hard to teach physical skills without live picture or actual teacher.	2005-01-26
US	38923840	R17B4H8TF54DEH	1581604041	980597355	The Combative Perspective: The Thinking Man's Guide to Self-Defense	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Mental preparation for combat	Gabe Suarez, the author of this book is a renowed shooting and tactics instructor. In his former career as a SWAT team member, he has participated in numerous fights and several shooting incidents (I believe the exact number is four shootings). <br /> <br />This book is similar to Principles of personal defence by Jeff Cooper. In this book, Suarez handles the mental aspects of fighting, based on his personal experiences and those of his trainees. Rather than instructing how to use weapons the most efficient way, he tries to explain how the mind works in a life-threatening situation. Instead of tactics, you'll learn how the fear and stress change your performance, and how to prepare for a potentially lethal encounter.    <br /> <br />Suarez advocates aggressive response to a threat, and man's right to defend himself even with lethal force, if necessary. The instruction he gives in the book fall into the same category, and his attitude is that unless you want to do things the way he instructs, it's the same as hiding your head into sand hoping the adversary does not attack you. As in other books by Suarez, his way is the only way to conduct business. I'm not arguing the facts, and he definitely has more combat experience than I do, but I dislike the way he forces his opinions to the readers. On the other hand, if man has proved his views correct in multiple gunfights, that may have a reinforcing effect on your outlook.  <br /> <br />The things discussed in the book are not new, as almost every book devoted to self defense shooting has at least a chapter on mental issues. However, this book gives the most complete treatment of the subject I have read. It's sad that Suarez has such one-sided approach to the subject. However, with it's flaws, this book is definitely recommended reading to anyone who is interested in self defence.	2005-01-25
US	38923840	R24WE3VME8KJ2Q	0873644964	125589583	Cheap Shots, Ambushes, And Other Lessons: A Down And Dirty Book On Streetfighting & Survival	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	Basics of street fighting	This is a concept-level book of self defence. By that I mean that the author Marc \\"Animal\\" Mac Young does not try to teach specific techniques, but rather ideas and underlying concepts. I think that this is a right approach, as it is very hard to explain motor skills in print. At the very least, it would take excessive amount of text and lots of pictures, and still it would be uncertain if the reader understands the technique right. That's why I feel it is much better to learn techniques from video (if you can't get hands-on instructing, that is).<br /><br />The book opens with basics of fighting, like types of punches, range, balance and so on. This is very interesting to read, although it is quite basic stuff. At about 1/3 of the book is devoted to these basics, and after that the book goes into more abstract stuff. At this point, the author starts to lose it. The book becames tediouos to read, and I was hard-pressed to understand some of the things Animal tried to explain. It's as if he did not possess the capacity to explain these abstract ideas to the reader. Luckily, after a while the book went on to human behaviour and human interrelations. This is again very interesting to read, as well as being an important subject. At the end of the book there is a chapter devoted to women's specific needs (threats), some stuff about weapons, the differences between martial arts and streetfighting, and so on. The book also includes a strange version of a concept commonly known as Cooper's color code of awareness (named after Jeff Cooper, who popularized the concept). In addition of making unnecessary changes to an established standard, Animal also fails to explain it properly.<br /><br />Animal likes to tell stories. On some occasions he falls in love with himself a bit too much, and the stories meant to be entertaining and amusing became annoying. This tendency is even more prevalent in this book than other books by Animal I have read.<br /><br />Despite it's shortcomings, I think that this is important book for anyone who is interested in self-defense. It's not that you won't find this information anywhere else, but this book is as good place to start as any similar book.	2004-11-25
US	38923840	R9SAPR7TY82AU	0923401016	994431473	Official Kubotan Techniques	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Overpriced, but has some merit	This booklet teaches the reader the official Kubotan  techniques. The Kubotan is a 5  inch long sylinderical object, some  inches in diameter you can use for pain compliance techniques. There are a handful of techniques, with some applications to certain real life situations (mostly applicable for police and correctional officers).  <br /> <br />The booklet has 56 pages, but the techniques do not start until page 20. Every technique is presented with several photographs, but these pictures are not very clear, not even the close ups. The techniques are instructed in captions, and while the text is somewhat clumsy, you can understand what the authors are saying. Overall, by the appearance of the booklet, you would guess it was printed in the 70's.  <br /> <br />The Kubotan does have some merit as a pain compliance instrument for police officers and the like, but in my opinion, the self defence techniques are not very realistic. There are some self defence techniques that will probably work (like defence against a bear hug), but they require that you have the Kubotan in your hand, or can get it in your hands while being held and/or thrown by the attacker. Since there are very good and realistic techniques for such situations that require no weapons at all, I much rather would use those techniques. The defences against kicks and punches are ludicrous.  <br /> <br />Overall, this book has some merit for police officers, correctional officers and the like. You don't even need the official Kubotan instrument, as you can use these techniques with a pen or similar object. However, the booklet is severely overpriced.	2004-10-10
US	38923840	R247XTPBQOWTBC	B00009KH3Q	643630038	Jim Grover's Situational "Self-Offense" : A Hard-Core Guide To Offense-Based Defensive Tactics	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sequel to Combatives series	This VHS film is sequel to Jim Grover's excellent Combatives series. When watching the film, I got the impression that this film was planned to be published as a part of the Combatives series, as Grover constantly makes references to \\"earlier film in the series\\".  <br /> <br />The film starts with a section of counters to knife attacks. There are counter moves to a jackknife attack, techniques on foiling your opponent's weapon draw, and knife disarming techniques. This knife section runs for some 20 minutes.  <br /> <br />The rest of the film is devoted to escaping different hand to hand attacks. Almost all of the techniques are for situations where your opponent has grasped a hold on you. The situations involve different kinds of chokes, bear hugs, lapel grabs and the like. All of the techniques are very simple and straightforward, and they rely on few basic moves and principles. Most of the techniques are derived from World war II combatives. <br /> <br />The major shortcoming of the film is that Grover does not teach the basic attacks he uses in conjunction of the techniques in the film. These basics were taught very well in tape one of Combatives series, and perhaps because this film was originally intended to be part of that series, they are not taught here at all. Therefore, you need to have the Combatives series in addition to this tape. Otherwise the film is very good, although not as good as the aforementioned Combatives series.   <br /> <br />Run time: 1:25	2004-10-08
US	38923840	R339GZBOB3UXD7	0312204280	84867597	Never Be Lied to Again: How to Get the Truth In 5 Minutes Or Less In Any Conversation Or Situation	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Some good advise, but don't expect too much	This book promises to teach you how to get the truth in 5 minutes in any conversation. Well, as the author himself says in this book: if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. The adage holds true this time also, but still this book offers some good advise.  <br /> <br />The book starts with almost 50 clues that help you to determine whether the person you are talking with is lying or not. You cannot determine the truthfulness of the other person just by one or two clues, but they can give a very strong indication. These clues rely heavily on nonverbal communication, and therefore I think this is the most interesting part of the book. After that, there is advise on how to lead the discussion such a way that you make the other person to reveal the truth without him noticing it. Next there will be eleven \\"silver bullets\\", that you can use to give the final blow to make the other person to tell the truth. After that, there is information on how to snoop for information without the other person noticing it, how to use hypnosis-like techniques to condition the other person to stay in the truth, how to avoid self-deception, and so on.  <br /> <br />This book is very easy to read, and the subject is interesting. Sadly, much of the contents concentrate on verbal communication, and prearranged lines and situations. The problem is, you have to be very good and experienced with this kind of situations, if you are to utilize the techniques on the fly. Therefore,  I was a little disappointed with this book. I thought that there would be much more emphasis on nonverbal communication and less on prearranged situations. I think that would have made the book more universally applicable.	2004-09-29
US	38923840	RIC6K70RBP9FB	B00009KH4B	491077985	Minimum Damage, Maximum Effect : A Complete Guide to the Use of Pepper Spray, Less-Lethal, and Improvised Weapons	Books	2	15	16	N	N	In praise of OC spray	In this VHS film, Kelly McCann (a.k.a. Jim Grover) discusses different kinds of less than lethal weapons for self defense, improvised weapons and OC sprays (\\"pepper gas\\"). The emphasis is on OC sprays, as McCann thinks they are superior less than lethal weapons.<br /><br />The film starts with a survey of different kinds of less than lethal weapons on the market. McCann presents several designs of many types of weapons. He also gives advise on how to choose a weapon best suited to your needs and circumstances. This portion lasts for some 15 minutes, and a large portion of this is used on OC.<br /><br />The next section handles improvised weapons. This is very interesting stuff, and therefore it is sad that this section is mere 7 minutes long. Someone who wants more information about improvised weapons should read Pool ques, beer bottles and baseball bats by Marc MacYoung.  I, for one, would be interested if McCann would make a film entirely on improvised weapons.<br /><br />The rest of the film (almost 30 minutes) is devoted to OC sprays. McCann gives advise on how to choose a good OC spray (they are not created equal). After that, he gives information on proper use of the spray. At the end, he present some neat tricks on how to deploy the spray.<br /><br />As other films by McCann (Jim Grover) that I have seen have been of good (or even excellent) quality, I was somewhat disappointed with this film. The overall impression of the film is that it is made very hastily. The film consist of McCann lecturing on a practise hall floor, and the whole film might have been shot on a single day. There is very little action in the film, so all of the information could very well have been presented in written form (and with a much lower price tag). Also, I expected that there would be less emphasis on OC sprays. While OC is a very good defensive weapon, I expected to get more information on other weapon systems, as well.<br /><br />Run time: 0:50	2004-09-29
US	38923840	R3HWEJLC5IYG9V	0312868456	582108723	Stop Being a Victim	Books	2	3	3	N	Y	Crime prevention with a twist	This is not your typical how to escape a stalker or how to prevent your house being burglarized -type of book. The book handles these issues as well, but there is a wider perspective in the book. Unlike other similar books I have read, this book has a heavy emphasis on legal survival, and protecting your rights. <br /> <br />The book starts with general advise that people became victims of crime, because they make themselves victims. Podrug stresses that if people would be a little more attentive to their surrounding (and their rights), they would be saved from a lot of trouble. The first hundred pages or so give advise on several legal issues, like protecting your job, how to handle a divorce (from a lawyer's standpoint), buying or selling a house or car, and so on. The emphasis is on advising the reader his rights, and telling how to avoid being swindled.  <br /> <br />The latter half of the book discusses how to avoid being assaulted on the street or on your car, how to protect your house or car from being burglarized, security tips while travelling, and so on. This advise is generally very superficial, and Podrug does not really have that much to say on many issues. Rather, he just keeps on repeating the same advise over and over.  <br /> <br />After almost every chapter there is a checklist, regarding the subject of the chapter (checklist on buying a car, personal safety checklist, travel checklist, and so on). These checklists are the most useful part of the book, as they include just about all that is said in the text, only without repetiting the same thing over and over. <br /> <br />The author is a divorce lawyer, therefore his advise on how to protect your property in case of divorce, and regarding other legal issues as well are the most authoritative. In comparison, his expertise towards issues of personal safety are derived from his childhood growing up in a rough neighbourhoods, and handling cases of people who have been victims of a criminal assault. In my books, that does not make anyone an authority of the subject. Therefore, I feel Podrug should have just concentrated on the issues he has authority over, and leave the personal security issues for people like Jim Grover, who really know their stuff.	2004-09-16
US	38923840	R95RLI797NTV	B00009KH22	792844918	Jim Grover's Combatives	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Realistic self defence	This is a series of three VHS tapes that includes instruction on Jim Grover's hand to hand combat system. The Combatives series is considered to be one of the best (if not the best) instruction available on VHS on the subject. <br /> <br />Tape one handles power strikes and kicks. There are six strikes covered: ax hand, face smash, cupped hand blow, hammer fist, chin jab and elbow strikes. None of the strikes involve hitting with a closed fist, which might injure your hand especially if you hit your opponent in the head. All the kicks covered are targeted below waist, which is realistic approach in real world combat. There are also some hand to hand combat principles covered, and at the end of the tape, there are some combative sequences (essentially, flow drills). Run time for tape one: 0:55. <br /> <br />Tape two covers ground fights and stick attacks, both parts being about 25 minutes. The ground fighting section handles first how to avoid being taken to the ground. After that, there is advise how to defend yourself and how to escape if you are taken to the ground. Also, there is a brief discussion on how to fight on the ground if you end on top. The stick fighting handles hitting with a stick, defending against a stick attack with a stick, and choking with a stick. There is also instructions directed specifically for collapsible batons. Run time for tape two: 0:54. <br /> <br />Tape three covers weapon disarming. There are separate sections for knife, stick and pistol disarms. The knife disarm section is longest, being about 19 minutes. There are several different disarms presented that are suitable for different situations. There were two block/disarms I felt a little uneasy about, but otherwise the instruction seemed very practical and realistic. The stick disarm section is very short, only about four minutes. But since all of the disarms follow the same principles, there really is not need to handle the issue more. The last part is handgun disarms, which runsfor about 15 minutes. There are few different disarms for different situations, and all seemed to be realistic and simple. Run time for tape three: 0:43. <br /> <br />The series is very good, and I recommend it highly for everyone interested in real world self defence. The principles are aggressive and straightforward, but if you are attacked, you don't want to take unnecessary risks by being too soft in your response. The only real gripe is about production. The entire series is filmed with using only one camera, and in some sequences (especially in the ground fighting section) the camera has to move around very rapidly to catch all the necessary nuances, and in some cases there is something that would have needed a close-up, but the camera was not there to make it. Also, there is so much material in the tapes that you have to continually rewind to catch all the important stuff. If there were some slow motions with narration, it would have improved the film. Still, the contents of the film are so good, I am compelled to give five stars, in spite of these shortcomings.	2004-09-14
US	38923840	R2RFOVYQX1WXVG	0873648935	802212661	Real Fighting: Adrenaline Stress Conditioning  Through Scenario-Based Training	Books	3	18	21	N	Y	On force on force training	The first third or so of this book is similar to Quinn's first book, Bouncer's guide to barroom brawling. There is some discussion about the realities of real-life fighting, Quinn teaches one technique to the reader, and so on. After that, Quinn starts to discuss the benefits of realistic force on force (FOF) training. The tone of the book changes totally, and it seems that the first third of the book doesn't really belong into this book. It's as if Quinn did not have enough things to say about FOF training, and he had to put some extra material to the book. This doesn't mean that the beginning of the book is not good, though. In fact, I thing that the beginning of the book is the most valuable part (if you are already familiar with FOF training, that is). <br /> <br />As the book is almost ten years old, at the time of writing the material on FOF training (which Quinn calls \\"adrenal stress conditioning\\") might have been new information, but today everyone realizes it's importance and benefits. As Quinn concentrates mainly on establishing justification on using FOF training, and because today FOF training is recognized as superior training method, that means this book is at least partly outdated. In the book, Quinn does not tell how to organize FOF training scenarios, nor does he give any other practical advise on the subject. It may be because he considers these things trade secrets, but still the main portion is of little use, if you already realize the benefits of FOF training. <br /> <br />Through the book, Quinn makes references to his earlier book and his instructional videos. I find this kind of advertising a little annoying. If I like the book I am reading, I might buy other books by the same author, but not because the author asks me to. Otherwise, the book is easy to read and there are some war stories from Quinn's bouncer days to spice up the text.  <br /> <br />I believe that this book was much more important when it was published, but today the ideas are not new, therefore lessening the importance of the book.	2004-09-05
US	38923840	R312319CFZHXBR	B00009KH21	945338407	Jim Grover Defensive Shooting	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very good film on defensive shooting	This is a series of four VHS tapes, where renowed shooting and tactics instructor Jim Grover (a.k.a. Kelly McCann) gives instruction on handgun shooting and tactics. Generally, this series is regarded as one of the best (if not the best) instruction available in VHS about defensive use of handgun. <br /> <br />Tape 1: The basics of handgun operation. The tape covers the correct grip on the handgun, drawing the gun and so on. On the film, Grover gives good instructions on how to correct bad habits you may already have developed. Run time: 1:15.  <br /> <br />Tape 2: Intermediate defensive shooting. The film handles shooting on the move, shooting in close quarters, shooting in and around vehicles and so on. Run time: 1:03. <br /> <br />Tape 3: Advanced defensive shooting, part 1. In the film, Grover covers shooting in low-light environment, and there is more advise on shooting on the move. The main emphasis of the tape is on wounded shooting and weak hand drills (about 2/3 of the film is used on these subjects). Run time: 0:47. <br /> <br />Tape 4: Advanced defensive shooting, part 2. The tape is devoted entirely on clearing buildings. Grover handles the basics, and discusses different tactical problems, like stairs. Run time: 0:31. <br /> <br />Generally speaking, the instruction varies from good to excellent, but on some occasions a subject is merely mentioned without it being handled properly. Still, as the series is quite exhaustive in content, there is far more issues presented than you can find in average shooting film. And because the tapes are sold as a series, there is no overlapping information you would find if you would buy four separate tapes on the subject. However, I feel that the first two tapes are superior to the last two. If the standard set in the first two tapes would have been carried out to the last tapes, I would have given this series 5 stars. <br /> <br />The production is fairly good. The film is shot using only one camera, therefore there are no varying angles of view. Many times, the camera is momentarily shooting on a wrong spot, as if the takes would not have rehearsed properly. Still, I had no difficulty on understanding what Grover was teaching.  <br /> <br />At first, I was a bit hesitant to buy the tapes, because of the price. But when you consider that for the price, you get four tapes with over three hours of very good instruction, I can recommend this series to anyone who carries a handgun for protection.	2004-08-22
US	38923840	R1TSDJ4AV923SK	0865682070	539451394	The Naked Edge: The Complete Guide to Edged Weapons Defense (Elite Professional Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Excellent presentation of techniques	This book is filled with series of photographs, in which Steve Tarani shows various techniques to defend against a knife attack. The techniques themselves are fairly simple and basic; in fact if you have any previous experience from martial arts, you probably are familiar with at least some of them already. But that is not a bad thing, since the more simple a technique is, the more probable it is that it will work in real situation. So, as the techniques presented here are all very simple, they have a chance of working in real life without years of study. <br /> <br />When you fist look at the book, you get the impression that there are dozens of techniques, based on the vast amount of pictures. But, surprisingly, there are only a handful in the book. Still, they are so universally applicable that they probably cover the vast majority of situations. As stated, the techniques are very simple, and realistic for the most part. However, there were two techniques I felt would not be my first choice. In both, you start in the \\"inside\\" position of an attack, then you block the knife and transfer to the \\"outside\\" position. Granted, outside position is superior one, but it demands you to pass in front of the blade. I would hesitate to do that, especially if the attacker were committed to making a new attack after the first one failed. I would prefer just blocking the attack, and making my move from the inside position (that would be faster, in addition to allowing a more positive control on the attacker's knife hand as there would not be a need for a transition to outside position).  <br /> <br />In my opinion, Tarani is not a very fluent writer. On the other hand, on some occasions he explains some thing over and over, but in some cases I had to re-read a chapter several times to understand what he was trying to say. As the names of techniques and principles are printed in CAPITAL LETTERS, on some captions there were more text in capital than in normal text. In my opinion,that made the book a little annoying to read. In addition, there were quite lot typos in the text, giving an impression on poor editing. <br /> <br />But the main thing in the book is contents, and in this book the techniques are presented in excellent manner. In fact, I believe I have never read a book that presents physical techniques in this much detail. In my opinion, the best thing about this book was that there were not only techniques presented, rather Tarani has designed several drills for each technique, making it easy to practice the techniques from ground up.  <br /> <br />To sum it up, this book offers superior presentation of basic, yet effective techniques. If there were not those two techniques I feel uneasy about, I would probably have given this book five stars.	2004-08-18
US	38923840	ROPTAMWU4Y3NA	1581604289	525664971	The Gladiator Conditioning Workbook	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A supplement for the video/DVD	This book includes the same two workouts and a stretching program that are included in the Gladiator conditioning DVD, as well as some other material not available on film. The workbook can be used as a stand alone product, but it works best if used to supplement the film. <br /> <br />The workbook includes a very good callisthenics workout and another workout performed with a sandbag as a weight. You need a chinning bar and a pair of handgrips to perform the standard workout, and a sandbag for the alternative workout (they give instructions on how to construct a sandbag). The stretching program uses 12 fairly basic stretches to create a total stretching program. The material missing from the DVD includes ten breathing exercises, and variations to the basic exercise program.  <br /> <br />The book is lavishly illustrated with clear drawings, so that you could probably understand the exercises and stretches by just using the book. However, the information given in the workbook is much more brief than the one given on the DVD. Although you could probably do without the DVD, the workbook is designed to support the film, so it is probably advisable to get both.  <br />	2004-08-17
US	38923840	R3HHRETJT9LZIK	0936279060	422633710	The Street Smart Gun Book: Weapon Selection, Defensive Shooting Techniques, and Gunfight-Winning Tactics from One of the World's Leading Authorities	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Emphasis on mental aspects	This book is the tactics book by renowned shooting instructor John Farnam. In his other books, he concentrates on selecting and handling shotguns and handguns, but this book is entirely on tactics and mental aspects of a self defence situations.  <br /> <br />The book starts with awareness and mental preparation. Farnam stresses that it is paramount to make your mind on how to react in a certain situations, before they actually occur. After that, there is a small chapter on tactics, before moving on to mental and legal aftermath of a shooting. After that, there is a chapter on techniques and concepts on how to act in close confrontations. There is also chapters on low-light shooting, carrying a handgun concealed, range safety, and selecting a self defence firearm.  <br /> <br />I was somewhat surprised, how little emphasis Farnam gives to actual tactics. There is much more discussion about mental aspects connected with self defence shootings. As Farnam is a shooting instructor, there is very little discussion on other solutions to a self defence situation than shooting. As they say, when all you have is a hammer, every problem starts looking like a nail. And besides that, Farnam has somewhat pessimistic view on humans' mental ability to survive untouched through a traumatic event. <br /> <br />The layout and production of the book leaves something to be desired. The chapters are not separated very clearly from each other, as there are only few empty lines before a new chapter, and the font used in the title of chapters does not differ very much from the font used in sub-chapters. The quality of printing is substandard, as some pictures are smudgy, and sometimes the text is similar than you can get when printing with a printer with low ink.  <br /> <br />The book is almost 20 years old, but this does not show very clearly in the book. Only in the chapter on weapon selection, the age of the book is apparent. Farnam writes with ease, making the book pleasure to read.	2004-08-09
US	38923840	R3TC8KASWE2AK4	0873645456	198218398	Pool Cues, Beer Bottles, and Baseball Bats: Animal's Guide to Improvised Weapons For Self-Defense and Survival	Books	4	4	4	N	N	On improvised weapons and awareness	This book concentrates on using improvised weapons for self defence. The author divides virtually everything you can use into four categories, and devotes a chapter for each weapon type. MacYoung starts with the basics, explaining also the physics and principles behind every weapon category.<br />The text is very easy to read, and there are several stories from real life used to spice up the text. As with all books by MacYoung, there is lots of humour in the text. This time, however, the stories and humour is less macho, compared to other books by MacYoung I have read. The text is richly illustrated, with very clear line drawings, making it very easy to understand what the author is saying. <br />I think you don´t need much experience with martial arts to fully understand the techniques and principles presented in the book. That´s unlike most similar books I have read, but then the techniques presented here are very basic, with very little nuances. In addition to the techniques, the book teaches you to continuously look for \\"self defence potential\\" of each item you run across. That not only teaches you to spot the best items for self defence, it increases your total awareness of your surroundings, as well.	2004-07-08
US	38923840	R27HBK1T6P0AGE	0873646959	780528219	Instinct Combat Shooting: Defensive Handgunning for Police and Personal Protection	Books	1	13	13	N	Y	An outdated magazine article	This book is based on a magazine article Klein wrote in 1971, that was published in a police trade magazine. This background is evident as you read this book. First, there is much less content in this book than you would  expect, based on the page count of the book. Second, the information presented seems to be far more outdated than you would expect, based on the publishing year of the book.<br />Although the book has over 40 pages, there really is not that much text: The pages are small and the text is printed in a large font. There are several pictures that take the whole page and there is no other text other than caption on the page. And besides that, there are several totally blank pages between chapters. So, the total amount of text would have fitted in ten pages or so, had the font been smaller and the pages larger. <br />As you would guess, the text is not very detailed, rather the author tries to cover all aspects of the issue in a very hurried manner. There are chapters in ammunition selection, proper stocks the gun should have and so on, but the author assumes that the reader has some previous handgun shooting experience, as he does not cover the shooting basics in the book. As the author covers every aspect only very superficially, the reader don´t have a chance to learn anything from this book. The author even fails to give a proper reasoning for using point shooting.<br />I think this book is a waste of money. There are far better books on point shooting around than this.	2004-07-03
US	38923840	R2G0KOGFORRDYQ	1880336693	576313937	Crouching Tiger: Taming the Warrior Within	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Great tales, but�	In this book, Loren Christensen tells educational tales from his past. The tales are divided in seven categories, according to what kind of lesson they teach to the reader. For the most part the stories are funny and as always, it is a pleasure to read text written by Christensen. <br />The problem with this book is that you don´t learn much from these stories (not anything an adult person should not know already). The lessons include wisdom like you shouldn´t bully anyone, or that you can be proud of something you have accomplished, but you shouldn´t be proud as a person. These statements hold true, but you should know them already, without reading this book. <br />I was expecting to find some practical advise on how to maintain and develop my warrior spirit (mental exercises and the like), instead I got a book filled with humorous stories. The book is fun to read, and as the stories are only 2-4 pages long for the most part, you can pick this book up, if you have five minutes to spare. But it is not what I expected it to be.	2004-07-01
US	38923840	R16DGBIUB9Z18C	0873647165	72681527	Floor Fighting: Stompings, Maimings, And Other Things To Avoid When A Fight Goes To The Ground	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Fighting on the ground	As the name of the book implies, this book concentrates on fighting on the ground. The book starts with basics, where the author explains how to fall safely and without injury. Then the book handles techniques on how to break free from a grip, how to take your opponent with you when falling, how to defend yourself when on the ground, how to wrestle effectively, and finally how to get up from the ground.<br />The book covers some good principles on fighting. There are also numerous little tricks and techniques of ground fighting. Most of the techniques seem very simple, therefore easy to learn. What I especially liked was that the author does not just teach the techniques, but he also explains the physics and principles that make the technique work. That makes it easier to understand the techniques. There are some photographs and line drawings, to clarify the explanations. Sadly, there are some techniques without any pictures, making it somewhat harder to grasp what the author is saying.<br />Although the author does a good job on explaining the techniques, it is clearly visible how difficult it is to teach a physical skill with written text and a few pictures. That is the major shortcoming with all books like this, and not this book alone. With more pictures, this shortcoming could have been somewhat evaded.<br />Clearly, some readers are offended by the somewhat harsh language and sense of humour Animal is using, but they didn´t bother me. I found the little stories Animal uses to illustrate a point somewhat amusing, but I can relate to readers who are put off by them. <br />To sum it up, I would say that to fully benefit from this book, you should have some previous experience on martial arts and/of wrestling, and a training partner with whom to experiment the techniques. As it is very hard to reach a physical skill without being able to present the action with moving picture, the techniques and some of the principles presented may be a little hard to understandby just reading the book.	2004-06-27
US	38923840	R1736P5G8XD87Q	1930051123	904014660	Force Under Pressure: How Cops Live and Why They Die	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Interesting subject, tedious writing style	This book handles the stresses related to police work, how they affect individual officer´s life, and how to overcame the stress. The author is a phychologist who works with police departments in stress-related issues. <br />I had high hopes towards this book, as I have read a couple of similar books, and they have been mostly interesting to read, shedding light to an important issue. I was disappointed with this book, however, as in places the text is somewhat tedious. It is not too difficult to understand, but it is not very pleasant to read. It is as if the author had forgotten to whom he is writing this book for, as he uses expressions and writing style that you would expect to find in a scientific publication, not in a book aimed for general public. In places the text is much more interesting to read, as if the author had been suddenly excited about the given subject, bringing his enthusiasm into the text.<br />The text covers both the theoretical aspects of the issue, and there are also some stuff that can be directly put into use (like visualization exercises). The book explains the background and causes of some widely known stressors, which was interesting to read.<br />If you can put up with the somewhat tedious writing style, the book (the issues presented in the book) is interesting to read. But on the other hand, there are more interesting books on the market, also.	2004-06-21
US	38923840	RASHLGQV7KR9L	0873645863	724294757	Bouncer's Guide to Barroom Brawling: Dealing with the Sucker Puncher, Streetfighter, and Ambusher	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Techniques, drills and principles	I have mixed feelings towards this book. On the other hand, the author uses a sizeable portion of the book to teach several techniques to a reader. But then, he also discusses the fundamental principles behind the techniques. There is also discussion on the nature of combat, what works and what doesn´t work in real fight, and so on. <br />In general, I´m very suspicious towards books that try to teach the reader hand to hand combat techniques. That´s because it is very hard to teach a new physical skill to a reader by just using text and pictures, without the reader having a teacher to point out the inevitable mistakes. To succeed in such task, there would be a need for huge amount of pictures, and some very detailed explanations of each portion of the technique. With some techniques, this book accomplishes the task as there may be as many as eight clear pictures on one technique, with very detailed captions and discussion in the text. But on some techniques, there may not be even a single picture, and the technique is not explained in a very detailed manner. The techniques seem very simple and realistic, but still there is a need for detailed explanation of each technique. Because of this, I think that the reader should be familiar with at least some martial art form before trying to learn these techniques, to fully understand the mechanics of each technique.<br />There are also some drills to help you develop the skills needed for the techniques taught. The drills seem pretty simple and don´t require any special equipment to carry out. <br />The parts I like best cover the principles that form the foundation of the techniques discussed in the book, and handle the reality of fighting in general. If Quinn would have concentrated more on these sections, this book would be worth at least one extra star. However, Quinn has had trouble explaining some of the principles, and he simply states that you have to try this out with a training partner, and essentially discover the principle yourself.<br />Quinn tells several stories on his street fights to illustrate a point. These stories may offend some readers and give an impression that Quinn is on an ego-trip. They didn´t bother me, however. While I think that they were somewhat interesting to read, they were not very important additions to the book.<br />Overall, I think that there is too much emphasis on techniques. Had the author used more pages on the reality of fighting and the principles, and less on separate techniques, this book would have been better. Still, three stars is not a bad rating.	2004-06-07
US	38923840	R13FCHG145AO1	1884654029	941817028	Fighting Fit: Boxing Workouts, Techniques, and Sparring (Start-Up Sports, Number 12)	Books	2	20	25	N	Y	Disappointing	As the earlier book by the same authors (Boxer´s start-up) was an excellent book, I was expecting this to be at least a four-star book. I was badly disappointed, however. <br />Much of the written material in the book is taken directly from the earlier book, and there is not much text added. Instead, the book relies heavily on photographs. There is nothing wrong with that, per se, but it places high demands on the quality of the pictures. Sadly, the pictures don´t fill the expectations. They are not entirely bad, however, as you can see what you are supposed to see from the pictures. But they are far form good quality. <br />Much of the book is filled with different punch combinations, counters and flow drills. In these pages, there is hardly any text, instead the reader is supposed to study the pictures and learn from them. This is hardly satisfying, and there is a genuine need for exhaustive written instructions. There is also some instructions about stretching, weight training and sparring, but these issues are not given very thorough presentation. <br />There is some merit to this book, but you need to have a more complete textbook to support the pictures in this book. For one, the book is missing a complete training program, instead the reader (beginner-intermadiate level) is supposed to construct one on his own, based on the limited information given in this book.	2004-04-23
US	38923840	R2R9QCB14P6Z0L	9963616089	316424819	Brawn	Books	5	41	43	N	Y	Crammed with information	This book is aimed for a bodybuilder who has typical genetics, does not use anabolic steroids, and has a life outside the gym. The author does not advocate two-hour long workouts with 15 sets for each bodypart, as seems to be the case with some more conventional books. Still, this is not high intensity training, per se.<br />The author advocates the basic lifts and training style from the golden era of bodybuilding, when Reg Park and John Grimeg were dominant figures in the field. The emphasis is on squat, deadlift, stiff-legged deadlift, chins, dips and the like. Interestingly, McRobert even uses somewhat archaic names for the excercises, like overhead press for military press, and he advocates paying attention to grip and neck work. These issues are not handled routinely in most modern bodybuilding books.<br />I was surprised to find out that the author advises to train two, or even three total body workouts every week. I have been used to train each bodypart directly once in ten days, so that was almost a shock to me, especially considering that the author is otherwise against the modern trend of frequent and extensive workouts. However, as I read along, I discovered that actually, the author now advocates dividing the body to two or three parts, and doing the rotation once a week, of even less frequently. The confusion developed because the text from the first edition has not been edited at all, even if the author has changed his opinion towards a given matter. Rather, there is a boxed, \\"important note for the second edition\\" to note that now the author has different opinion on the matter. This can be very confusing, as in some matters, the authors' opinion has changed considerably, and the boxed note for second edition sometimes is not located right after the outdated information.<br />There is not a single picture of graph in the book. At first, that made the book appear to be heavy to read, but actually the text is very easy to read. Perhaps on some occasions a picture or two would have made it easier to understand what the author is saying, but as he can explain the things very well, I believe that I have not missed anything.<br />And speaking of pictures, there has been some criticism that as the author does not pose in his books, the training system is not believable. I have read dozens of training books, and I believe that there has not been a single picture of the author posing in any of the books, unless the book has been authored (or co-authored) by a professional bodybuilder or the like. Therefore, I don't understand this kind of critic.<br />This kind of training worked well for all great bodybuilders of the golden era, in a time before steroids, and when even the stars had to work for a living. Therefore, as man has not evolved considerably in past 50 years or so, the same principles work today, for a person who does not use steroids, and works for a living. Even without its' flaws, as the book is crammed with information that relates to typical, drug-free bodybuilder, it is highly recommended.ons a picture or two would have made it easier to understand what the author is saying, but as he can explain the things very well, I believe that I have not missed anything. <br />And speaking of pictures, there has been some criticism that as the author does not pose in his books, the training system is not believable. I have read dozens of training books, and I believe that there has not been a single picture of the author posing in any of the books, unless the book has been authored (or co-authored) by a professional bodybuilder or the like. Therefore, I don´t understand this kind of critic. <br />This kind of training worked well for all great bodybuilders of the golden era, in a time before steroids, and when even the stars had to work for a living. Therefore, as man has not evolved considerably in past 50 years or so, the same principles work today, for a person who does not use steroids, and works for a living. Even without its´ flaws, as the book is crammed with information that relates to typical, drug-free bodybuilder, it is highly recommended.	2004-04-21
US	38923840	RY1WUI068UFL9	0918751454	165780069	How to Live Safely in a Dangerous World: The Most Complete, Practical Guide of Self....	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How to avoid becaming a victim	In this book, Loren Christensen gives plentiful advise on how to avoid being a victim of a crime. The book concentrates most on violent crime, but there is also some good advise on how to protect your home from being burglarized. <br />The book starts with chapters on awareness and planning ahead, what you will do if confonted by a criminal. There is also practical advise on how to create witnesses. Second part of the book covers home and neighbourhood safety. There are some clear line drawings on how to make your home more secure for burglaries, for example. There is also practical advise on what to do in case of break-in, how to choose an alarm system, and so on. Part three covers armed self-defense, beginning from discussion whether you should have a gun in the house in the first place, and covering about all of the important issues. Part four handles car safety, and part five is devoted for rape prevention. <br />The information and advice is very practical and realistic. There are lots of hands-on advice on variety of issues, and the overall view of security is also covered from varied perspectives. Sadly, most of the time the advise is not as in-depth as I would have wished, therefore the claim that this book is \\"the most complete, practical guide on self-protection ever written\\" is somewhat exaggerated. The chapters where Christensen handles practical self defense are not as good as the ones that concentrate on crime prevention. This is surprising, since Christensen is a former police officer and well known author of martial arts books. As with other books by Christensen, the text is witty and easy to read. Perhaps there is not as much humour in the text as are in other books by Christensen, but still the book is fun to read.  <br />This book gives very good and practical advise on variety of situations. Although you can´t guarantee not being a victim by following the advise given in this book (of any other similar book), you can lessen the risks considerably.	2004-04-14
US	38923840	R1XNTH1V06ZTEJ	0440508835	598692359	The Gift of Fear and Other Survival Signals that Protect Us From Violence	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Good backround information, but not a how-to book	In this book, Gavin de Becker discusses personal safety from several aspects. There is information for people who are being followed by a stalker, parents who are afraid of their children, women who want to end a relationship safely, bosses who want to fire employees, and so on. Some of the information and advise is very practical, and can be directly utilized to increase your safety. Some of the issues handled is more theoretical in nature, and serves more as an backround information. <br />The text is very interesting and easy to read, and not too scientific. Even with the more complicated subjects, the advise is very easy to understand, and it is illustrated with several stories from real life. There are some chapters that are not as useful (like the story on how de Becker´s company found and helped police to apprehend a person who had killed several people and was stalking one of de Becker´s clients), but still it is interesting to read about these thing as well. <br />I really wanted to give this book 5 stars, but there was something missing to grant the missing fifth star. Although there are plenty of advise applicable to common situations, I believe that this book is more theoretical in nature than a real how-to book. By reading this book, you really don´t learn how to make accurate predictions yourself, but you rather learn how the professionals do it. Anyway, this book is an excellent way to start learning about the subject.	2004-04-08
US	38923840	R11A3WGW9TPJO	0865681872	262381717	Anatomy of a Streetfight	Books	2	16	23	N	N	Where´s the content?	When I read previous reviews on this book, I got the impression that in the pages of the book, Paul Vunak would teach some good techniques to a reader. Therefore I was excited about this book, and was anxious to get my hands on it. <br />The beginning of the book was promising, as Vunak analyzes the differences between no-holds-barred fights and streetfighting, and other subjects. This is good stuff, but to my disappointment, Vunak really fails to give answers to the questions raised. There are plenty of photographs, where Vunak presents almost 30 flow drills and the like, but he does not really teach any techniques. And in the photographs, there is a very serious \\"uke effect\\" present, meaning that the opponent just stands there and waits to be beaten. <br />There are some principles presented in the book, but they are not treated in enough detail to properly teach them to a person who is not familiar with them in the first place. It is doubtful if that is even possible in a book, but as a paying customer I have a right to criticize (if it is possible, why it has not been done here, and if it is not possible, why even try?). <br />The chapter I was looking forward the most was titled \\"Jeet Kune Do and police use of force\\", which was also the longest chapter in the book (it was not written by Vunak). In the chapter, Larkin Fourkiller and Michael Holsapple analyze the nature and problems of police use of force. They draw a conclusion that police officers should practice Jeet Kune Do. In a chapter of  over 20 pages, they fail to present any real answers or techniques to be utilized by just reading the book. <br />In a synopsis, that is the problem with the whole book: In the book, there are very few techniques properly taught or real answers presented, except for the advise that the reader should learn Jeet Kune Do. Granted, there is some useful advise given to women, but the advise is also self-evident. I was hoping that they could tell me something more in a book ofalmost 130 pages. I´m not criticizing Vunak or his system, but I´m criticizing this book.	2004-04-03
US	38923840	R1CGRSP5KMA56O	1581600496	693801006	The Tactical Rifle: The Precision Tool for Urban Police Operations	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Solid, but not very detailed	This is the second book by Gabe Suarez, who has become a leading figure in realm of defensive shooting. The backround Suarez has in law enforcement is very visible in the book, more so than is his newer books. But then, the book is aimed more towards law enforcement agencies than private citizens.<br />The book is intermediate level. It does cover the basics, like different firing positions, and principles of marksmanship, but it does not treat the subjects in enough detail to enable its use as basic textbook. On the other hand, there is not much of the advanced stuff, either. <br />Major portion of the book is devoted to different shooting positions, carry and ready positions and deploying the rifle from sling-arms. Each of the subjects are handled with aid of very good and clear photographs. Although there is not very much text in these chapters, the pictures make it easy to understand what Suarez is teaching.<br />There is also some stiff on zeroing the rifle, low light operations, shooting on the move, reloading and clearing malfunctions, and so on. The gun-specific techniques are explained for AR-15, because it is the most common rifle in police use, but for the most part the techniques presented are not gun-specific.<br />To sum it up, this is a good but not very detailed study on use of rifle in police operations. It´s very easy to read and the techniques presented seem very realistic. The main drawback is the lack of detail.	2004-03-14
US	38923840	R14FM2898OA0DI	0965942228	171667866	The Farnam Method of Defensive Handgunning	Books	4	38	41	N	Y	Detailed information on defensive handgun operation	In this book, established and well known firearms instructor, John Farnam gives very detailed instruction on how to operate handgun in defensive purpose. There is also some discussion about tactics, and even of such less-discussed subjects (in this context, anyway) as information security and the like. <br />The book starts with chapters on mental toughness, personal tactics, law and other \\"mental skills\\". There is also chapters on different defensive weapons, first aid for gunshot victims and instructions on dealing with police in case you have to defend yourself with a firearm. This is interesting stuff, although I found it a bit strange that this information was the fist thing in the book. Usually, these things are discussed only after instructions on how to operate the gun. But it is a matter of opinion if this arrangement is good or not. What really strike me as odd, was that Farnam seems to have somewhat paranoid attitude towards police and legal system. That is especially strange concerning that Farnam has a backround in law enforcement.<br />After that there is a very detailed instruction on different handgun operating systems, mechanical systems and general technical details of a handgun. For someone interested in technical details, this might be interesting reading. But I suspect that an average reader is not this much technically oriented, and therefore this information is too detailed for a book like this. After all, I suspect that there are not that many people who go to a gun store to buy \\"a rotary barrel handun for self defence\\", rather they might ask for a Beretta, for instance. Therefore I feel that most of there pages devoted for technical detail, would have been spent better if they had been used for discussing tactics.<br />The last part of the book handles the basic operation of handgun. As with the previous part, the information is very detailed. However, in this subject there is really need for detailed information, as not all people carryinga handgun get hands-on instruction from a qualified instructor. Therefore, this part of the book can be recommended for a novice shooter. <br />If you are a novice handgunner, and are buying only one book on the subject, this fills the bill very well. In addition to instructions on basic handgun operation, there is lots of material on laws and other aspects of the issue. If the mechanics section does not interest you, you can always skip it. What really bothered me was that Farnam has somewhat paranoid attitude towards society in general, and law enforcement in particular. But you can decide yourself, how you feel towards those things. For more advanced student of defensive handgunning, this book can still offer some interesting pieces of information.	2004-03-02
US	38923840	R2TOJOZH5NFB92	0971725403	926278972	Emotional survival for law enforcement: A guide for officers and their families	Books	3	52	62	N	N	How hypervigilance affects your personal life	This book handles the issue of how the need of being constantly aware of ones´ surroundings can adversely affect the personal life of a police officer. While the book is aimed primarily for police officers, it can be of benefit for people in similar occupations. The information presented is not relevant for an armed citizen, however.<br />While this book is not te definitive book on the adverse effects of continuous hypervigilance, it explains the issue throughly and in logical manner. The author explains in a very illustrative manner how one thing leads to another: How police officer learns to like the \\"high\\" of police work, which leads to putting more emphasis on the cop role at the expence of civilian life, which in turn makes the individual more one sided, and therefore more vulnerable, and so on. At the end of the book, the author gives simple instructions on how to became an emotional survival. <br />The text is not too scientific, and the author uses conversational tone through the book. There are also lots of charts and drawings to illustrate the issues handled in the text. Some illustrations are used over and over, but every time there is something new added, to illustrate how things build on top of others. There is lot of humor in the text, and there are numerous case histories used throught the book to further illustrate the issues. And because the book is written in very plain language, it is fast to read.<br />This is a very valuable book for every law enforcement officer to read. If you are interested in officer survival, this book is essential reading.	2004-02-13
US	38923840	R3L60GWP2WKM61	0671789295	438606363	Shoot to Kill: Cops Who Have Used Deadly Force	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Real stories of deadly encounters	This book tells true stories of cops who have had to use deadly force in their line of duty. Although all of the stories handle encounters where someone is killed, this book does not glorify use of deadly force, or try to over dramatize the situations. The stories have very realistic feel, and most of the stories are not very exciting (but are still interesting). So if you are looking for exciting cop stories and Hollywood-style heroics, you should look elsewhere.<br />There are over 30 stories, most of which are 5-10 pages long. Therefore, you can pick this book up if you have 15 minutes to spare. Sadly, the narration is not of very high quality, but rather reminds of trashy pulp fiction books. Anyway, if you are looking for realistic depictions of police work that does not demand too much effort to read, this book might fill the bill.	2004-02-08
US	38923840	R18KIQA4UVMQGI	0609606131	937960394	Stop Teaching Our Kids to Kill : A Call to Action Against TV, Movie and Video Game Violence	Books	3	12	28	N	N	Media violence and kids	This book handles the effect of violent media (mainly television, movies and computer games) has on children, and discusses the ways parents can lessen these effects. <br />The book starts with a chapter that establishes the fact that violent behavior of children has increased dramatically together with increase of violence in mass media. Next the book handles issues like how identifying with violent role models affect the development of children and their thought processes, how unbelievably common violent scenes are in programs intended for children, how violent computer games condition and desensitize children on committing violent acts, and so on. The last chapter gives practical advise on how to act to protect the children from media violence. The advise seems realistic and common sense. At the end of the book, there is extensive reference of resources, list of media literacy and violence prevention organizations, and notes on the issues handled in the book. <br />The book is written in a very easy to read style, and it really is hard to put it down. For one, there is no footnotes in the text, althoug the book is extensively researched (you can find all of the refrences in the reference section at the end of the book). This lessens the scientific feel of the book, but my guess is that this has done on purpose, to attract as many readers as possible. The book really has only about 120 pages, as the resource section takes the remaining almost 80 pages. <br />If I had not read On killing by Dave Grossman before, I would have given this book four stars. But since most of the material is covered in the aforementioned book (although in less detail), there was not as much new material to me. In spite of that, this was a very interesting book to read, and highly recommended.	2004-02-08
US	38923840	RVF2ZKHY0ZDDC	0873646509	908618964	Streetwork: The Way To Police Officer Safety And Survival	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Valuable pieces of information in small packages	In this book, Steve Albrecht covers a wide range of situations a street cop may encounter on duty. The topics vary widely in subject, ranging from dealing with the media to outlaw biker stops and report writing to child abuse crimes. There are also several chapters with more humorous tones, like tales of unbelievably stupid criminals. <br />The book is comprised of short chapters, each covering a separate subject, that has been narrowed down to fit into a few pages. The chapters are arranged alphabethically by the title of each chapter, rather than by topic they are covering. That is a very strange solution, as it would be much easier to look for a certain piece of information, if the chapters would have been arranged by subject (all chapters handling self defence in one place, and so on).<br />Albrecht is very experienced police officer, and all he says makes sense. The book is very easy to read, and the short chapters make it even more easy to approach. But on the other hand, because the chapters are so short (the shortest are just two pages, and even the longest ones are less than ten pages), they are very narrow in scope, or don´t go very deep into the subject. That is sad, as Albrecht clearly has wealth of visdom to share.<br />This book is so similar to another book by Steve Albrecht, Surviving street patrol, that it is very hard not to compare the books. Both are good books that offer tiny bits of valuable advise, and both have similar pros and cons. If I would have to choose only one, I might go for this book, as this book is perhaps slightly more advanced than Surviving street patrol.	2004-01-26
US	38923840	R27Y4EZ5BRCRY8	093923503X	671095691	CQB: A Guide to Unarmed Combat and Close Quarter Shooting	Books	1	34	35	N	N	Unrealistic and vague	The best thing in this book is the paper it is printed on; it's semi-glossy and heavy, giving some expectation of quality. The second best thing is that there is surprisingly little text, because some 1/3 of the pages are filled with photos. The fact that this is good news, tells something about the quality of the text. <br />To start with, the entire idea of presenting the \\"fighting secrets\\" of special operations forces in a 200-page book is somewhat absurd, especially considering that the author assumes that the reader does not know virtually nothing about the subject. The techniques presented here are unrealistic in the real world, to a large extent. And finally, the author speaks way too vaguely of the issues he presents, so that you really don't have a chance to learn anything. <br />The main part of the book concentrates on close combat. Significant amount of these pages is devoted to series of photographs. The photos are supposed to present several unarmed and armed close combat techniques, but they are so small and unclear that you are hard-pressed to figure out what they are depicting. But that's good, because you don't want to learn these techniques, anyway. One amusing thing caught my eye: The author stresses that it is imperative to train in full gear, and carry all the equipment you would be carrying in a real situatoin (that is true, but it is also self-evident). But in about half of the pictures, the guys are wearing karate uniforms!<br />The reason I bought this book was that I expected to find something on close-quarters shooting. Granted, about the last third of the book is devoted to the subject, but there really is not anything, exept for a total beginner. And for a beginner, there are far better books around.<br />One thing that especially annoyed me was that the author uses military jargon, apparently to get some credibility. That is the only justification for most of the jargon, as the book is filled with examples like \\"Any operation in the continental United States (CONUS), that ends in a shooting...\\", that being the only use of term CONUS in the text. The reason people use abbrevations is to save time and space with frequently used terms, which is not the case with examples like these.  <br />I would recommend this book to a pre-adolescent boy, who wants to impress his pals by how much he knows about guns and real-life combat. If that description does not fit you, stay away from this book.	2003-12-09
US	38923840	R2GAXOCLZM3JGP	0671522930	163194594	Strong on Defense: Survival Rules to Protect you and your Family from Crime	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	Strong advise on crime survival	This book is not about preventing crime, it's surviving a violent crime. Strong does not concentrate on how to avoid being a victim, instead he tells how to survive the confrontation when you became one. This makes sense, since he states that violence is becaming more and more random and you can became a victim, no matter what you do. There is also some advise on avoiding crime, but the emphasis is not on that issue.<br />The book is filled with stories from real life. The stories - no matter how grim - are interesting to read, and the actions of the victims is analyzed after the story. You learn, what the victims did wrong, and what they did right. This makes the book interesting to read, and the \\"hard text\\" is also easy to read.<br />The principles Strong advocates are very simple and easy to remember, even during a crisis. On some occasions his advise seems somewhat farfetched, but on the other hand, it's better be prepared before something bad happens. At the end of the book, Strong gives his formula of making a safer future. His formula is simply putting the criminals behind bars, and keeping them there.<br />This is a very important book; everyone should read it. It's really sad that we need books like this, but it's a realistic possibility that you can become a victim. If that happens, this book may hold the answers to your survival.	2003-11-13
US	38923840	R1B3IFJWVTYHZE	1581600518	562009252	Tactical Reality: An Uncommon Look at Common-Sense Firearms Training and Tactics	Books	3	11	11	N	Y	Strong beginning, but fades at the end	When I started reading this book, I thought that this is one of those rare 5-star books. The thinking was unconventional and fresh, and there was a lot of humor in the text. Then when I reached about the halfway on the book, I became fed up with the constrained humor that Awebuck seems forced to cram his text with. And the subjects became less and less interesting, also. The thinking is unconventional to some extent, but Awebuck fails to find new aspects on the subject matter, and the text ends up repetiting the same ideas.<br />This book is comprised of articles published in several magazines berofe, and the problems with this format are obvious: The limitations on length placed on magazine column limit the way issues can be handled, the chapters in the book are not arranged by the subject handled, which forces the reader to go through the whole book if he is looking information on certain subject, there is some repetition in the book, the author is forced to end each and every chapter in some kind of conclusion that is not required in a text that is intended to be published in book form from the beginning, on some occasions is seemed that the author was short of ideas, but the monthly column was to be written anyway, and so on.<br />If the book were fully edited, the column format was discarded, the repetitive stuff removed, and the size of the book would be reduced to a more practical 8,5 x 5,5 size, the book would be worth at least one extra star. Nevertheless, because of the unconventional thinking, it is far more beneficial to read this book than the third or fourth book by your favorite author.	2003-10-28
US	38923840	R1543B7XL3V08N	0915463741	984992208	The Practical Pistol Manual: How to Use a Handgun for Self-Defense	Books	2	4	6	N	N	For beginners only	This book is intended as a \\"minimum requirement reading\\" for new gun owners. The book fills the bill adequately, but the problem is that it handles the issues very superficially. The book addresses about all the important issues, but it does not give them the proper treatment.<br />On the other hand, because the book is very thin and fast to read, it more probable that a prospective gun owner has the patience to read through it, and it certainly is better to have read this book than having read no book at all. But the problem is that some persons (who are not into reading, anyway) may think that they have read \\"a book about shooting guns\\", and think that they don´t need to study the subject any more. One has to wish that reading this book gives a beginner an stimulus to study the subject further.	2003-10-09
US	38923840	R1B31LREZCD6VO	1581600674	608792192	Street Smarts, Firearms, And Personal Security: Jim Grover'S Guide To Staying Alive And Avoiding Crime In The Real World	Books	4	26	27	N	Y	Detailed information on personal security	I have mixed feelings about books that are comprised of articles published in magazines before. The main reason is that those articles seldom are detailed enough, because of lenght constraints placed on magazine columns. In addition, the chapters in these books are usually arranged in illogical manner, where stuff about a specific topic is dispersed thorouhg the book. This book avoids those pitfalls, however, and at the same time utilizes the main advantage of magazine column -approach: The book covers a wide variety of topics, in easily approached small portions.<br />While this book is comprised of articles published mainly in Guns & Ammo -magazine in years 1992 - 1999, the subjects of the  columns are so tightly defined, that the shortness of the chapters is not a problem. Grover gets his point across in the pages devoted to a specific subject. There is also lots of details and examples on certain situations. In addition, the columns are arranged in sections by the subject, so you can easily find all the info on specific subject without having to flip through the whole book. <br />Although the word \\"firearms\\" is mentioned in the title of the book, the emphasis is not in surviving an armed encounter. The book covers the field of personal security very broadly, beginning from the security of your home, and ending to wounded shooter tactics. In fact, the book could well have been published in two parts, one concentrating on crime prevention, and the second on combatives.  Therefore, this book should interest also those people who are not into guns, and are not interested in getting one for personal safety. <br />The crime prevention part of the book is exellent. It seems that while there are some books on the market on this subject, for some reason more books concentrate on combatives, than preventing these dangerous situations altogether. Perhaps this is the reason why I felt that the second half of the book was not as good as the first half. The book would have been better, if the magazine columns would have been edited somewhat to get rid of \\"in this month´s column we concentrate on...\\" -type  stuff. And there is some repetition also, which is a bit annoying in book form. <br />All things concidered, I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in raising their personal level of security.	2003-10-09
US	38923840	R1ZFUTY0AHF7GK	0873643275	891524202	The Complete Book of Combat Handgunning	Books	2	23	33	N	N	A classic, but not a very good book	The author, Chuck Taylor, is a legend in the field of defensive handgunning. This, however does not automatically mean that a book written by him would be any good. A fact that is emphasized by this book, although it is a classic. When this book was first published in -82, it may have been the cutting edge of combat handgunning, but so much has changed since then.<br />If a book is supposed to be \\"the complete book\\" of just anything, and the page count is less than 300, I became very suspicious. In this case, there are less than 180 pages, and only about 140 of those comprise the real text part (including pictures). The rest is filled with glossary and appendixes.<br />The book starts with the history of handgun. Next it handles care and cleaning of the gun. In my opinion, you should not learn the maintenance of your weapon from a book like this; you should stick to the instructions the manufacturer has provided (for liability reasons mainly). Next the author discusses customizing the gun. Now this is a thing I do not understand: Why buy a gun that is not ready to use out of the box? But then, I shoot Glock. Well, Taylor is a fan of Colt 1911, and it shows in this book. After this, there is a chapter on holsters, which is fine but the age of the book shows here somewhat. Next is a chapter on stopping power; a chapter that should have been left out. As I said, Taylor is a fan of Colt 1911 and .45. After all this, Taylor finally gets to the shooting part. There is pretty much all the basic stuff on gun handling, but it is presented in such a hurried way that you are not really supposed to learn anything from this? Or are you? For example, Taylor uses full two pages to present different shooting styles with a flashlight. Is that adequate or what? Then there is ten pages of tactics? Enough said on that. There is also a chapter on mental conditioning. In favor of Taylor, he is one of the few gun writers who have the courage to say that the color code of readiness (condition white, yellow, orange and red) was not invented by Jeff Cooper. The last chapter is about training and handgun competitions. And that's it, folks! 140 pages makes \\"the complete book\\".<br />I believe I made it clear that the contents of this book don't match the title. That still doesn't mean that this book is worthless. You just can easily find books on the subject that are better than this. This book serves best as an collectible for those who are interested in the subject, and not as an instruction book for those who are worried about their safety.tion white, yellow, orange and red) was not invented by Jeff Cooper. The last chapter is about training and handgun competitions. And that´s it, folks! 140 pages makes \\"the complete book\\".<br />I believe I made it clear that the contents of this book don´t match the title. That still doesn´t mean that this book is worthless. You just can easily find books on the subject that are better than this. This book serves best as an collectible for those who are interested in the subject, and not as an instruction book for those who are worried about their safety.	2003-09-04
US	38923840	R36HZ020P4XLUX	1884654096	327127376	Boxer's Start-Up: A Beginner's Guide to Boxing (Start-Up Sports series)	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Exellent instruction	I have previously thought that you simply can not learn a new physical skill by just reading a book. After being introduced to Boxer's start-up my opinion has changed. The book is filled with exellent photography to support the text, and you really can learn the techniques from just reading the book!<br />The book can be divided into three parts. The first part covers about 100 pages, and it is the actual instructional part of the book. It covers everything from the ground up (boxing gear, stance &amp; footwork, the punches, punching combinations, hitting the bag, defense &amp; counters, sparring, and so on). The second part is really just one chapter, and it covers the essential history of boxing, including the greatest fighters. The third part is shortened version of the author's diary, covering his experiences on learning to box. This part is about 35 pages long, and it's a matter of taste if this is too much. On the other hand, you don't learn much from reading this, but on the other hand it is fun to read other beginner's experiences.<br />In conclusion, I have to say that I was impressed with this book. It's amazing how good an intruction you can get from reading a book. Compared to the instruction I got from my beginner's boxing class, I think I learned more from this book.	2003-09-03
US	38923840	R3Q3HITVNE9M49	0873648641	829008683	Tactical Pistol: Advanced Gunfighting Concepts and Techniques	Books	3	57	60	N	Y	Some good advise (and some bad)	This book is the first book written by well-known weapons and tactics instructor, Gabe Suarez. The author has himself stated that when he was writing this book, he was still formulating his gunfighting concepts. Therefore, the book contains information Suarez himself calls dated and doesn´t advocate anymore (like Speed rock). Nevertheless, the book contains some valuable information.<br />The book covers just about all the basics about shooting from the drawstroke and the sight picture to reloading and malfunction clearance. In addition, there is also material for mental as well as tactical aspects of combat. But as you would guess, as this book is about 200 pages long and there are 22 chapters, none of the issues are given very through presentation. The information is presented in a clear and easy to understand way, but there really is not that much that you wouldn´t find in other similar books.<br />I think that this book is a good one, and worth the purchase, but there are some issues like the ones mentioned below that bother me:<BR>- Suarez seems to think that PTSD and related symptoms are result of conditioning. He thinks that people suffer from these symptos, because they have been told to do that. What he doesn´t realize (or seems to ignore) is that PTSD symptoms have been widely known and discussed for only couple of decades, but veterans of war have suffered from these symptoms from as early as the WWI.<BR>- In many issues, Suarez teaches only one way to do things. Take teaching the proper firing stance as an example: Suarez teaches only Weaver stance, and does not even mention that there are other shooting stances in existence. In my mind it is obvious that these are a matter of choice, and readers should be given a chance to evaluate the possibilities himself. This approach of not even mentioning the \\"competitive\\" stances gives the reader an impression that the author can´t make the reasoning on the subject, and therefore chooses to avoid the issue completely.<BR>- Suarez teaches to put the trigger finger on the trigger surface as you are in the process of drawing the gun, and the finger should start pressing the trigger even before the sights are aligned to the target! I think that this is extremely dangerous, as this demands extremely good coordination, which propably is not available in the heat of battle.<BR>- There are at least two separate issues where Suarez tells that it is very important to learn some specific skills, but there is not a word on these skills in the book! For example, regarding to shooting from behind cover, Suarez tells that \\"you must develop the ability to ´roll out´ from behind cover in a shooting position\\", and yet there is not a single word or picture on how to do it. If Suarez thinks that this is an important skill, why there is not even a single page, or couple of pictures on the subject?<br />Speaking of pictures, there are plenty and most of them are very good and informative, and support the text nicely. Some of the pictures are apparently so good that they have been used in other books as well. There is a strange thing that gaught my eye, however. In the chapter on operating in reduced light, there was no discussion on Surefire/Rogers firing technique in the text, but there was a photograph depicting that stance. That gives an impression of sloppiness in part of the publisher.<br />In conclusion, despite its few shortcomings, I would say that the book is a worthwhile investment. But this should not be your first book on the subject, as you have to examine the text with critical eye.	2003-08-29
US	38923840	R32ZZBTLCNR5KZ	0873649869	457705879	Far Beyond Defensive Tactics: Advanced Concepts, Techniques, Drills, and Tricks for Cops on the Street	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Essential for self defense instructors	This book is about the nature of combat; it is not an instruction manual about specific techniques. This is very good approach, as I believe that it is not possible to properly teach hand to hand combat techniques (or any other complex movements) without an instructor to oversee the action. Instead of techniques, the book is filled with truths about mental preparation and the winning attitude.<br />There are two major, and few shorter chapters in the book. The main chapters discuss training mainly from instructor´s point of view, and defense against deady threat. These two chapters cover about two thirds of the book. In other chapters Christensen presents main principles and concepts of combat, discusses the nature of combat, tells how to create witnesses, and so on. The text is filled with humor and witty cop stories from real life, making the book fun to read.<br />I think that while  reading the book can be useful to anyone interested in real-life self defense, it is self defense instructors who benefit most from it. And everyone can have a good time reading it.	2003-08-24
US	38923840	R26IROWE90N06	0966850106	170770470	Copshock, Surviving Posttraumatic Stress Disorder: Surviving Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (Ptsd)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	An introduction to PTSD	When I read other customer´s reviews on CopShock, I got the impression that the book is the ultimate in post-traumatic stress  disorder (PTSD), and it holds all the answers. I was disappointed, however, because although there is some good basic info, the book serves better as an introduction to PTSD. <br />The author uses a lot of real-life stories to illustrate different aspects of PTSD and related syndromes. Almost the whole book is written this way, and this structure makes the book easy to read and not too scientific. On the other hand, is makes it difficult to use the book as an reference book. If you want to search for a list of symptoms of a given syndrome, for example, the information can be scattered along the pages of the whole book.<br />The book has about 450 pages, but the text really ends at about page 240. The remaining almost 200 pages is filled  with listings of various support sources and so on. There is also extensive reference section, and bibliography of well over 200 publications related to the subject.<br />I rated the book as a whole, but the book´s usefulness is directly dependent to whether you need the latter half of the book, of if you are just studying the subject. To someone who is suffering from PTSD (or whose member of family is), the book could be worth it´s weight in gold.	2003-08-23
US	38923840	RCG2QTKL55AN1	1581601298	698857317	Surviving Street Patrol: The Officer's Guide to Safe and Effective Policing	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Practical advise for beginners and experienced cops alike	The author is well-known tactics instructor: his previous works include Contact &amp; Cover, a fundamental book on officer survival, which he co-wrote with John Morrison. He has extensive experience as a street cop, so the advise you get from this book are field-tested throughly. <br />The book is comprised from over 50 articles which have been published in a police magazine before  (San Diego Police Officers Association publication ´The Informant´). This approach is a two-edged sword. On the other hand this book covers a wide variety of issues, but on the other hand, because most articles are only about 3-4 pages long, the advise you get is quite basic in nature. This creates a problem that the more experience you have on police work, the less useful this book is for you. However, no matter how expeirenced you are, you are still likely to learn something new, or are at least reminded of something that you have forgotten a long time ago.<br />The articles have been arranged in a alphabetical orded according to the title of the article. In my opinion, it would have been wiser to group the articles by the subject they are covering. Now you get a chapter on avoiding blood-transmitted diseases, followed by article about court survival, followed by article on ground fighting, and so on. And, to make things worse, sometimes it is surprisingly hard to tell what a given article is covering just by the name. So, if you are looking for advise on certain subject, it can be hard to find the right article, if you don´t know the name of the article.<br />Another complaint is that the book is printed in a font that is a bit too small to my taste. It´s not too small to read, but if you want to make sidenotes or underlinings to the book (which I like to do), it can be hard because the size of the text.<br />To sum it up, I would say that for a novice cop, this book is a treasure chest, but experienced cops will benefit from reading it also.	2003-07-24
US	38923840	R24CNHX5Y0RB06	1889031267	767791421	Defensive Living: Attitudes, Tactics and Proper Handgun Use to Secure Your Personal Well-Being	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	An introduction to self defense	Ed Lovette and Dave Spaulding believe that if a person makes the desicion to carry a handgun, he has a greater responsibility toward himself - and above else to his loved ones to confront the dangers found in the modern society. They have combined their vast law enforcement and military experience to create a handbook to help in such an effort. But, as the majority of this book is about non-gun issues (mental conditoining, awareness, operating a vehicle in an emergency, medical self-help and so on), also those people who don´t carry a gun will benefit form reading this book. <br />Usually, books like this concentrate on guns and tactics - essentially surviving an armed encounter. This book, however, places emphasis on avoiding such situations altogether. That is such an common-sense approach to the subject, one has to wonder why other gun writers concentrate on surviving the attack, and not avoiding it in the first place. <br />The book covers just about all the important issues of the subject, and there doesn´t seem to be anything essential missing. However, this is such a broad subject that a hundred pages is way too little to cover it in adequate detail. Therefore, this book serves mainly as an introduction to the subject - although a very good one.	2003-06-28
US	38923840	R26X5SAH14BESU	0398072531	497016972	The Police Officer's Guide to Operating and Surviving in Low-Light and No-Light Conditions: How to Prevail in Stressful Situations Through Proper ... Use and Availability of Illumination Tools	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Equipment catalogue	When you buy a book with a title like this, you would expect to find vast amount of tactics and techniques on operating in low-light environment, but this is not the case with this book. In reality there is some thirty pages about night ops, and the majority  (over 150 pages) of the book is filled with descriptions of various manufacturer's flashlights, laser sights, night vision equipment and so on. That's fine if you are buying a new thermal imaging system, but otherwise the majority of the book is of questionable value. The fact is emphasized with the fact that this product info becomes obsolete when time goes by, and this same info is available via internet. There is some good information however. For example, there is a good list of desirable features a tactical flashlight should have.<br />There is also some general infomation about different low-light systems (not related to a specific product). But there is also some stuff that doesn't belong to a book dedecated to night operations: There is several pages on binoculars and conventional rifle scopes, for example. All of the information can be useful to a reader, but you get the impression that the author has poured all of his knowledge into this book, no matter if it fits under the headline or not. There is even some stuff on bomb disposal!<br />The editing of the book leaves something to be desired, also. It is somewhat hard to find specific information within the book, as the product info is not properly separated from the more general discussion of the current subject. The general information is easily lost among the product-specific info.<br />This book is not entirely bad, but if you are looking information about low-light tactics, you are better advised to buy a good, more general book on armed defense, which has a chapter or two on low-light operations.	2003-06-17
US	38923840	RDT0U5NMGFENR	1581600267	978884272	Fight at Night: Tools, Techniques, Tactics, and Training for Combat in Low Light and Darkness	Books	3	27	29	N	Y	Good basics on low-light operations	As this book is written by Andy Stanford, I had high expectations towards it. Partially the book was on par with my expectations, but partially I was a little bit disappointed with it. I was pleased with the way Stanford presents the issues he handles in the book, but disappointed with the fact that the book didn´t dig deep enough on many issues.<br />The book starts with \\"human factors\\" (explanation how the eye works, how it adapts to darkness and so on), then there is a chapter about various night vision equipment, and another about less exotic aiming devices. The fourht chapter discusses flashlights and spotlights. There is very good advise on selecting a flashlight, and Standford also gives some recommendations on what specific flashlights to buy. The author seems to be in love with Surefire lights; admittedly they are very good, but there are many other quality flashlights around Stanford barely mentions in the book. Next, Stanford presents eight different handgun shooting techniques with flashlight. There is also chapters on \\"additional tools\\" (clothing, perimeter defence, edged weapons and so on), self defense with fashlight, low-light tactics, and training for low-light encounters.<br />In conclusion, I would say that Fight at night is a very good book, if you don´t know much about self defense in low-light conditions. But if you have some previous training or knowledge about the subject, it doesn´t have that much to offer. There are all of the basic tactics there, but not much of the advanced stuff. You could say that the book doesn´t hold any surpises, either good or bad. Still, with it´s flaws, it is the best book dedicated to low-light operations I have read.	2003-06-17
US	38923840	R3FHG07GT5M2RE	1889031550	627591394	Handgun Combatives	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Common sense discussion of all aspects of combat handgunning	This is a very good book about using handguns in combat. In the book, the author not only tells about the technical stuff (correct grip, stance and so on), but he discusses the tactis and mental aspects as well. The author has reviewed many established models of operation, and has found that the most common way is not always the best way to conduct business. ... Spaulding also gives answers to questions raised, ... <br />In the book, Spaulding goes though the usual stuff of selecting the handgun and holster, but in my opinion, Spaulding gives advise that is a way above average. Usually, in similar books they only advise which guns and accessories are good, but Spaulding advises how to select gear that is good FOR YOU. In other words, he tells how to select gear that is both of good quality, but is also suited to your individual needs and physique. It is odd though that after the chapter on gun selection, there is seven chapters (about 50 pages) before Spaulding goes to holster selection. <br />Spaulding does a good job of presenting proper shooting stances (actually combat stances, because shooting a gun in a range is a totally different ball game than shooting in combat), getting a good grip (he gives an interesting trick that helps you to determine the proper grip that was totaly new to me), and so on. He also discusses extreme close quarters shooting, shooting in the dark,  the problems with automobiles and so on. He also stresses that your practice should reflect the conditions of real life, not those of a shooting range.<br />The only real problems with the book are those of production. It appears that Looseleaf law publications have tried to save printing costs by limiting the number of photographs to a minimum, and printing the captions as small as possible. There are hardly any diagrams in the book, which would have helped to understand the text better. Also, the text is printed in a dense format, and because of that the book is a little stenuous to read.  <br />In conclusion, I would say that this book is of very good quality, and there is some very useful stuff even for experienced shooters. It should have a place in the bookshelf of every person interested in his survival in a armed confrontation.	2003-05-31
US	38923840	R1OJR04P4Q736O	0809230712	480393753	Power Factor Training : A Scientific Approach to Building Lean Muscle Mass	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Scientific bodybuilding	This bodybuilding system by John Little and Peter Sisco is a very interesting one, and it is explained in scientific detail. The idea is to overload muscles by doing partial strong-range reps, and the effectiveness of a workout is not determined solely by reps and weight used. The time that takes to complete the workout affects on the effectiveness, as well. The authors explain that in physics, the amount of work is not derived from just the weight moved, but time has an effect also. So, if you move the same weigth two times, when the first time you use 5 seconds and the second time you require only 3 seconds, you are doing more work the second time (you are moving more pounds per minute). <br />To fully benefit from Power factor training (PFT), you have to keep detailed training log, and you have to review it regularily. So it takes more bookkeeping than regular trainig methods, but at the same time it is very easy to keep track of your progress. On the other hand, the inclusion of time to the equation makes is very hard to see during the workout how you are doing. On the traditional workout programs you can easily see that if you can manage certain amount of reps, you are progressing from your previous workout. On PFT, you don´t know how you are improving before you make the calculations to determine your Power factor and Power index for the workout.  <br />Using this book is not as easy to use as you might want. The contents of the book are not arranged logically, and in some cases you have to search hard to find a certain thing you are looking for. This does not make it difficult to read the book though, but if you are just looking for certain information, it can take some time to find it. <br />There is also some conflicting advise in the book, mainly concerning the number of reps and sets you should use. On the other hand, the authors advise that there should be no \\"cookie cutter\\" routines - preset number of sets and reps to complete in a workout. Rather, youshould experiment to find your \\"sweet spot\\" - the weight and number of reps and sets which give you the biggest Power factors (the sweet spot is different from person to person). This in turn creates a new problem, because it takes commitment to start the PFT program, because you have to experiment for a while before you can fully benefit from it after finding the sweet spot. And the sweet spot doesn´t stay the same, as it moves around as you became stronger.  So clearly this is not a program for beginners. <br />The inclusion of time into the equation is totally new concept in weight training, but the theory doesn´t seem to be watertight. Even the authors warn you not to look blindly at the numbers, as you could fool yourself by making one or two quick reps in couple of seconds, and get huge Power factors. Secondly, the authors advise you to utilise Preacher curls for biceps for example, even when you can get bigger Power factors by doing barbell curls. This advise doesn´t seem very logical concirering that you are advised to constantly strive to improve your Power factor and Power index. <br />But the main thing is: Is PFT any good? Oh yes it is, as long as you keep detailed workout log, and keep on searching that elusive sweet spot. And be advised that you need a power rack, or Smith machine at the least to utilize the program. When you realize the limitations of the program, you can gain hugely from it. If nothing else, it teaches you to keep an accurate training log.	2003-05-05
US	38923840	R3ME5OF85M5HZC	0316330116	154225661	On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	On killology	This is a very interesting book, in which the author Dave Crossman analyses the history of personal combat, draws conclusions on why the killing rate of soldiers in combat is amazingly low, and ends the book by analyzing the reasons of increase of violence in modern society. <br />The book starts with the history of combat from ancient Greece to the modern days. The author shows how amazingly hard it is for a soldier to [destroy] a fellow man, even in war. Crossman explains this by stating that in a man, there is an innate aversion towards [destroying] another human being. Through history, the military has tried to overcome this aversion to improve the effectiveness of its soldiers. In the 20th centyry, there was a substantial increase of this effectiveness, by using the conditioning process to condition the soldiers to [destroy]. The conditioning process has been so effective that when in the Civil war era only few percent of the soldiers were willing to [destroy], the ratio has risen to 15-20 percent in world war II, and to about 90 percent in [SE Asia].<br />At the end of the book, Crossman states that violence in society is rising because of similar conditioning process than that used by military, but without the same safety measures. This conditoining happens via entertainment industry, which is becoming increasingly more violent. It´s interesting to note that Crossman thinks that violent computer games, where the player is an active participant in the game, are not as dangerous as television, where the audience is just passively watching the violence. He makes a strong point, however, and it´s hard not to agree with him.<br />In conclusion, I would say that this is a very interenting book. I would recommend it to anyone who is interested in military history, or who is concerned about the increasing violence in society today.	2003-04-21
US	38923840	R17HSY1IBPJFXT	0873646533	140043795	Handgun Stopping Power: The Definitive Study	Books	2	33	50	N	N	Unscientific study	The main purpose of this book is to determine which handgun calibers are the most effective, and which cartridges are the best in a given caliber, and to determine how this stopping power can be prediceted. There is also some related information, created as a by-product of the study. <br />Let´s begin by examining the main issue: defining the stopping power of given cartridges. The authors have reasoned that to really be able to define the effectiveness of a bullet, one has to examine the real shooting cases. That is sound reasoning, and I believe that the authors are absolutely right about that. Unfortunately, that creates a problem that is very hard to overcome: The problem of adequate reference material.  <br />In a shooting case, there are numerous variables, which all contribute to effectiveness of a bullet, and most of the variables are not dependent of the bullet itself (like the size of the subject, physical condition of the subject, mental state of the subject, the beliefs of the suspect, whether the subject is under the influence of durgs or alcohol, what kind of clothes the subject is wearing, and so on). You can safely say that there are dozens of such variables, and some variables have more profound effect than the others. <br />The authors have tried to overcome this problem by limiting the shooting cases eligible for the study by stating that only torso hits have been counted, and those cases have been omitted where there have been more than one bullet hit to the subject. But this is hardly a solution at all, because the authors have stated themselves that \\"it´s not important that you hit something, it´s important that you hit something important\\". In this book they have counted only torso hits, but in reality there are no \\"torso hits\\", because it has a tremendous difference, if a bullet hits heart or spine, or if the bullet goes just into abdomen not hitting anything vital. But still these variables are not taken into consideration in this book. <br />As I stated, there are dozens of variables in a shooting concerning \\"stopping power\\". When one considers that most of the one-shot stop -percentages are calculated based on just couple of dozen shootings, how  can these values be considered statistically reliable? You can determine the unreliabliness of this data yourself by comparing this data from 1992 to a newer data, with more shootings. In some cases there is substantial difference between old and new street results. And the one-shot stop percentages are calculated to an accuracy of 0,01 %. This is ridiculous considering the fact that in some cases there are more variables than there are shootings! The biggest number of shootings for a given round is 462, which might just be big enough of a sample, but in majority of cases there has been less than 100 shootings, which is a way too little database to achieve reliable results consirering the vast amount of variables. And in some cases the calculations are based on just eleven shootings! <br />So it´s clear that these one-shot stop calculations are not statictically reliable. A fact that is emphasized by the fact that there is no reference material in this book. A surprising feature in a book that is supposed to be a \\"study\\". <br />However, there is also some useful information, and this is where we get to the by-product part of the book. The authors have collected information about exotic handgun ammo, like exploding bullets or sabot rounds. And there is also some important considerations about tactical penetration. <br />There is also some information that is not so useful, but can be of interest to the reader, like presentation of different ways to determine the effectiveness of a bullet used in the past. Also, the authors have included some shooting cases, arranged by the caliber of the gun used. These stories are interenting to read, but they are just anecdotes, and they can´t be used to proof anything.<br />The authors have also created a way to predict the effectiveness of a given bullet before there are any street results available for that round. This formula ís created by comparing known bullet performance on the street to tests conducted in ballistic gelatin. This is a very interesting way to predict the effectiveness of bullets, but the reliability of these formulas suffer from the same thing than the \\"street results\\": There is not sufficient data available. <br />In conclusion I would say that paradoxally, the portion of the book that handles the main issue (stopping power) is of questionable value, and the support material is the most valuable part of this book. I believe however that this will change as the authors get more data from new shooting cases.	2003-04-21
US	38923840	R1FDSWQED86CJH	0873228774	348218433	Fit for Duty	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Motivational book for beginners	Fit for duty is a fitness book aimed for cops, but of course everyone can benefit from its contents. In the book, the authors don´t give you a fitness program, but rather give you information on how to design a program that suits your needs. This is a good choice, as anyone can benefit from the book, no matter what his fitness level is. <br />The book contains wide-ranging information about all aspects of fitness: Cardiovascular endurance, muscular strength and endurance, flexibility, anaerobic fitness, nutrition, weight management, stress management, substance abuse, and so on. Sadly this information is not very in-depth, so the book is of little value to anyone but beginners. Also, there seems to be some faulty advise, at least in the weight training chapter. <br />On the other hand, the text is very simple to understand for even to those who have never exercised in their lives. The book is filled with examples, and there are three fictional police officers used as an example to whom it is very easy to identify with. Through the book, the authors give you strong motivational reasons as to why you should exercise, and what benefits you can get in the line of duty on being on good shape. <br />I recommend this book to anyone who needs motivation, or some basic information on starting a fitness program. More advanced trainers should look elsewhere.	2003-03-28
US	38923840	R31EEBSPXQ9HAI	0671750402	160899734	What Cops Know	Books	1	7	28	N	Y	330 pages of anecdotes	In my opinion, this book is next to useless. The book is suppodded to tell \\"what´s it really like to be a cop\\", but it doesn´t deliver. There are lots of stories told by Chicago cops, but these stories are really just anecdotes; the shortest are just one or two sentences long. You just can´t tell much in two sentences. <br />Another problem is, the book is arranged in topics. In practice this means that a cop after cop is telling you that \\"you don´t forget your first corpse\\", and this goes on page after page, until the author moves on to another topic. It would be much more interesting, if there were about two or thee dozen stories in the book, each 5-10 pages long that you could read like a short story. But the way this book is written, it simply is not interesting to read, and you don´t get much from reading it.	2003-03-26
US	38923840	R2YFIBK3PBTJ40	1581600941	308361990	Defensive Shooting for Real-Life Encounters: A Critical Look at Current Training Methods	Books	4	33	36	N	Y	A thought provoking book	This book is not intended for those who are into shooting as a sport, but for those who approach it as a martial art. For the latter people, this book should be mandatory reading. Actually, this book is not about tactics in a real-life shootings, it's about how we should train to prepare for such an event.<br />In the book, Ralph Mroz sheds a new light to several established \\"truths\\" on the field of combat handgunning. His aim is to look things from a new perspective, and to find flaws in established state of the art techniques and tactics. The most interesting parts of the book are those where Mroz compares different styles (for example, point shooting versus sighted fire, or different styles of close quarters shooting), and weights their pros and cons. <br />In the book, Mroz does not try to give the answers, he just wants to point out the common mistakes in trainig. On the other hand this is a good thing, because there is not an impression that Mroz is advocating a trainig system of his own. On the other hand, the book would be more complete, if it gave also solutions to the problems it reveales. Now about the only solutuion Mroz gives is to include force on force -exercises and role playing to training. <br />There is not any reference section in the book. On some footnotes Mroz gives the source (mainly when it is published by Paladin Press, which is the publisher of this book also), but there are many sources which Mroz does not address fully (e.g. he tells the name of the author, but not the name of the publication). This gives a slight impression of bias, which in a sad thing because the book is otherwise so unbiased, and is not bound to any school of thought.	2003-03-25
US	38923840	R3OO1IQY3BS0N5	0688137865	673284154	Verbal Judo: The Gentle Art of Persuasion	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Verbal self defense	Verbal judo is about controlling - and winning - encounters by using words as your weapons. But in the context of verbal judo, winning means that everybody wins: You win by making a difficult person more responsive and therefore you can direct the encounter to unfold the way you like. And he wins, because the encounter can be solved in a civilized manner, without arguments.<br />The author is a black belt practitioner of judo and tae kwon do karate, and a former college English literature professor turned to a cop. This unusual background shows clearly, because the book is written in an analytical (yet entertaining) way, is filled with references to Latin and ancient Greece, the author uses citations of ancient samurai wisdom, and the book is packed with usually humorous, and always educational cop stories. <br />The book is written mainly a street cop in mind, but the author constantly stresses that these principles can be utilized by anyone: businessmen, department store clerks, teachers, parents trying to raise children, and so on. <br />The book is very entertaining, yet educational. In the book, the author gives you a lot of advise on how to handle specific situations along with general guidelines to follow in all communication with other people. Some of this advise seem selfevident (but which you have not necessarily been conscious of), and some seem reasonable and realistic. There is also some advise I found very strange to a point being ridiculous. Nevertheless, I recommend this book to anyone who has ever found himself in an unnecessary fight, or thinks that he ends too often in the losing end of an argument.	2003-03-12
US	38923840	RG3MR72LFJTMW	0873644972	946440428	Principles of Personal Defense	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A classic	Rating this book is very hard, because it is a classic, and it is filled with fundamental truths. On the other hand, these thruths are not new, and they can be found in many books. You could even say that they are self evident.<br />The book has less than 50 pages, and of those pages about half are empty or contain illustrations. So it´s a minor understatement to say that there is not much to read. On the other hand, every word counts, and there is not anything that´s not necessary. However, when you read the book, you get a feeling that some of the principles are somewhat artificial, as if col. Cooper has tried to get the number of principles down to the magic number: seven.<br />In the end, when rating this book, I started with five stars. Then I reduced one star for the fact that these principles are not new, and Cooper has not invented them himself. Then I reduced another star because of the price, which is too high in my opinion. Nevertheless, this book has a place in the library of everyone who is interested in surviving in combat.	2003-03-05
US	38923840	R1E0J43M4UJWG3	0873649354	224823455	Deadly Force Encounters: What Cops Need To Know To Mentally And Physically Prepare For And Survive A Gunfight	Books	4	30	30	N	Y	On mental aspects of combat	This is a very important book about officer survival. The focus is not on tactics, but on mental aspects of combat, and especially the aftermath of violent encounter. <br />The book starts with introduction of Survival triangle: You have to survive both physically, mentally, and legally to fully survive an violent encounter. The authors keep that in mind through the book, while the stress is on mental survival. Next the authors discuss the selection process of police recruits, and the nature of violence the police are forced to encounter in their line of duty. Next they give a thorough explanation of fear and it´s effects on a person, and they address the issue of training, as well. <br />The main portion of the second part of the book (about 100 pages) is real-life stories told by cops, and the author´s comments of the events. There is not any tactical reviewing, but the incidents are discussed on a psychological point of view. At the end of the second part there is a chapter of psychological injuries, starting from physical effects right after the incident, going to post-traumatic stress disorder and difficulties with relationships with other persons.<br />The third part of the book covers the treatment of a traumatic event survivor. The authors cover all aspects: What the survivor himself can do, what his superiors, family members, peers and so on can and should do. The authors also stress that there are many different kinds of encounters that can cause post-traumatic stress disorder other than gunfights, and that all participants of such encounter can develop mental problems, not just the ones who pull the trigger. There is also advise to detectives who investigate officer-involved shootings.<br />All things considered, this book is a very complete package. It is easy to read and the text is not too \\"scientific\\" for a layman to understand. This was the first book by Loren Christensen I have read, but it sure won´t be the last!	2003-03-04
US	38923840	R9KOT1LA284AY	0873648773	620525056	Guns, Bullets, and Gunfights: Lessons and Tales from a Modern-Day Gunfighter	Books	2	48	63	N	Y	Great tales, mediocre lessons	This book is a compilation of articles written by Jim Cirillo. Some of these articles have been published before. This idea of compiling old articles into a book seems not to be the best possible idea, since the result is somewhat incoherent. It seems that these articles have not been edited at all when transformed into a book, because Cirillo tells two or three times how he ended up in NYCPD Stakeout Squad. The story is a good one, but once should have been enough. And there is at least one chapter which I had read before in another book.<br />The book is divided into three parts. You guessed it: Guns, Bullets, and Gunfights. The main portion of Guns -part consist of article on hybrid weapons (Cirillo likes to fit Dan Wesson revolver barrels into S&W frames. The problem is that Dan Wesson company has closed down years ago). In the Bullets -part Cirillo presents his patented \\"Felon grabber\\" -bullet design, and mourns that no bullet manufacturer has shown interest in producing the bullet. There is also some discussion on other hollow point bullets. The third part is the real meat of this book. There Cirillo tells about his gunfights and the ideas he has developed from his first hand experiences. <br />There are several problems about this book. Since there is only about 120 pages, Cirillo should have concentrated on only one topic. Now he can only scatch the surface on these subjects. Secondly, Cirillo seems to be a bit too much in love with himself. The book is filled with references of his achievements (\\"here are some of my police shooting awards...\\", \\"I fired this range record...\\", \\"...On my waist is the speed slide I invented, which revolutionized combat shooting\\", and so on. These examples are captions from preface). Third, because of the structure of the book, there is some repetition, as I mentioned earlier. Also, the text is written in layman´s words. I don´t doubt that Cirillo doesn´t know what he is talking about, but it would be more credible if he would have used more scientifical approach.<br /> The reason to buy this book is the third part, in which Cirillo tells tales about his adventures in Stakeout squad. It´s a real shame that there is only ten pages of these stories, because the stories are witty and humorous, even ïf the subject of the stories is somewhat grim. In the third part Cirillo also introduces his \\"silhuette point\\" -system of aiming, and there is also discussions about the qualities that make man a gunfighter, realistic training and so on. However, the same problems that trouble the first two parts exist here also. <br />In conclusion, if Cirillo were to write a whole book of stories on Stakeout squad, I could recommend it to anyone. Sadly, in this book there is only a limited amount of good stuff.	2003-02-01
US	38923840	R111TYBZVI32PO	1889031402	28896302	Tactical Attitude	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	Just basics	This book is about surviving a deadly encounter, mainly at the mental perspective. The book covers such topics as command presence, mental rehearsal, off-duty survival, sudden stress syndrome, and many others. Almost half of the text is real-life stories told by cops. This makes the book an interesting read. While this all looks great on paper, the regrettabe truth is that the book covers just the basics on given subjects. Basicly the authors tell you what you should do, but don´t really tell how to achieve that desired result.<br />The most interesting chapter tells about sudden stress syndrome. This subject is handled in a more thorough manner than most other matters in the book, but there are books that cover that subject in far more exhaustive detail. The only really \\"new\\" thing to me in the book was the idea of tactical terminology: The words you use to describe something can affect your attitude toward it. For example, if you talk about \\"routine traffic stops\\", you start to act like all traffic stops really are routine and present no danger at all.<br />To sum things up, this book is interesting to read, and it covers the subject of mental survival extensively. But there really is not much detail in the text. So, if you need a compelete text on the matter, you should look elsewhere. But as an brief overview, this book is a good choice.	2003-01-28
US	38923840	R3OBXZVEZ1V9B6	0736041850	602472136	Strength Training Anatomy	Books	3	13	23	N	N	Not very useful	Propably the first thing you notice when you open the book is quality. The paper is thick and glossy and the quality of printing is good. The pictures are beautiful, and it´s easy to find exercises for a certain muscle group. <br />Then the bad news: While the pictures look great, on many occasions they are too detailed, to the point of being unclear. Every exercise is given a full page (two pages on some occasions). But the majority of a page is filled with large drawing of the exercise, with the stressed muscle groups shown. The performance of a given exercise is given far less detail, on some occasions only a few lines of text. I think it would be far more benefical to give more detailed explanation of correct performance and/or common mistakes, and print the picture a bit smaller.<br />The exercises in the book are divided on seven sections, based on which muscle group they mainly stress. This is OK, but the division of muscle groups is a bit odd. There is a separate section covering exercises for buttocs, but at the same time all other muscle groups in the leg are combined as \\"legs\\". It would be more reasonable to combine buttocs with quads, or thights, and give calves a separate section.<br />There are about 110 different exercises, and variations on some exercises. The selection of exercises is a bit odd in my opinion. For example, there is a page on seated calf raise (on a machine), and the author advises that as a variation you can do the exercise without a machine, using a barbell across your legs. Then, on the next page that very same exercise is presented as a separate exercise! And there are some basic exercises missing, like toe presses on leg press machine, for example.<br />Perhaps the main problem of the book is that it doesn´t expalain the muslce mechanics at all. It would be great if the kinesiology of given muscle group would be explained at the beginning of each chapter, but there is no explanations at all about what a given muscle does, and how it affects the whole body. For example, the book says that seated calf raise targets the soleus, but there is no explanation what this means in practice. And there is no explanation which exercise I sould use if I wanted to emphasize the outer calf, for example.<br />As a conclusion, I would say that in certain circumstances this book can be a valuable asset, but you can´t use it by itself. You need to have some books on kinesiology, and some books which describe the correct performance of each exercose in detail.	2003-01-28
US	38923840	R3OL29B1I970VU	0736041850	602472136	Strength Training Anatomy	Books	3	79	101	N	N	Not very useful	Propably the first thing you notice when you open the book is quality. The paper is thick and glossy and the quality of printing is good. The pictures are beautiful, and it´s easy to find exercises for a certain muscle group. <br />Then the bad news: While the pictures look great, on many occasions they are too detailed, to the point of being unclear. Every exercise is given a full page (two pages on some occasions). But the majority of a page is filled with large drawing of the exercise, with the stressed muscle groups shown. The performance of a given exercise is given far less detail, on some occasions only a few lines of text. I think it would be far more benefical to give more detailed explanation of correct performance and/or common mistakes, and print the picture a bit smaller.<br />The exercises in the book are divided on seven sections, based on which muscle group they mainly stress. This is OK, but the division of muscle groups is a bit odd. There is a separate section covering exercises for buttocs, but at the same time all other muscle groups in the leg are combined as \\"legs\\". It would be more reasonable to combine buttocs with quads, or thights, and give calves a separate section.<br />There are about 110 different exercises, and variations on some exercises. The selection of exercises is a bit odd in my opinion. For example, there is a page on seated calf raise (on a machine), and the author advises that as a variation you can do the exercise without a machine, using a barbell across your legs. Then, on the next page that very same exercise is presented as a separate exercise! And there are some basic exercises missing, like toe presses on leg press machine, for example.<br />Perhaps the main problem of the book is that it doesn´t expalain the muslce mechanics at all. It would be great if the kinesiology of given muscle group would be explained at the beginning of each chapter, but there is no explanations at all about what a given muscle does, and how it affects the whole body. For example, the book says that seated calf raise targets the soleus, but there is no explanation what this means in practice. And there is no explanation which exercise I sould use if I wanted to emphasize the outer calf, for example.<br />As a conclusion, I would say that in certain circumstances this book can be a valuable asset, but you can´t use it by itself. You need to have some books on kinesiology, and some books which describe the correct performance of each exercise in detail.	2003-01-28
US	38923840	R1BM5WPRAUMYJQ	1581602782	236904400	Tactical Pistol Marksmanship: How To Improve Your Combat Shooting Skills	Books	4	60	62	N	Y	Accurizing your shooting technique	Gabriel Suarez is one of the best known authors on tactics and shooting, and for a reason. As with other books by Suarez, this book is written in clear and easy to read style, and the book is filled with photographs to add to the clarity of the text. Sadly, most of the photos are a bit too dark, or the lighting is bad (strong light coming directly from the side, for example). However, the pictures are clear enough to see what they are depicting.<br />Suarez starts with a brief history of combat handguns and combat handgunning. Then he proceeds to weapon and ammo selection, and he also touches the subjets of accessories. These chapters are short however, and you just can´t make a selection on proper defensive ammunition, for example, by just reading three pages. Suarez gives a few valuable pointers on what to take into consideration when choosing proper gear, however.<br />Next Suarez addresses the basics of handgun shooting: the grip, stance, loading and unloading the gun, proper sight picture, and safety rules. After the basics he advances to ready positions, tactical and speed reloads and so on. Interestingly, he is not as strict in his opinions as he used to be. These chapters contain some ideas that are very interesting and were new to me. <br />The next few chapters are what sets this book apart from most: Suarez gives detailed training program to improve your accuracy and speed. He also advises that you don´t have to spend vast amount of money on trainig ammo, as majority of training can be conducted as dry practise. Besides, quality beats quantity anyway. This section is worth the price of the book alone.<br />At the end Suarez tells \\"the truth about point shooting\\", and answers to some frequently asked questions. The question of point shooting seems to be a hard one, as Suarez defends aimed fire by giving what seems to be almost the same rationale as point shoters use when defending their point of view.<br />In the end, I would give this book 4 ½ stars, if it were possible. Full five stars is reserved for special occasions, so I give this book \\"only\\" four.	2003-01-19
US	38923840	R3NRM3YR5CAU3R	1888644168	386136209	The Unspoken Dialogue: Understanding Body Language and Controlling Interviews and Negotitations	Books	1	0	0	N	Y	Small scratch on non-verbal communication	This flimsy booklet is only about 60 pages long, and the text doesn´t begin until page 18! Additionally, the pages are small, and the text is large. There really isn´t a lot to read. And the contents is really quite substandard. Most of the time the author gives some gestures and examples from which you can determine the attitude of the person you are communicating with. The problem is, you cannot take some separate gesture and use it to determine that the person you are comminicating with is hostile toward you, for example. It´s comparable to stating that whenever a person is touching his nose, he is lying. <br />This book is not entirely bad, however. If you don´t know anything at all of non-verbal communication, this book can serve as an introduction to the subject. And if you are writing an essay about non-verbal communication, reading this book is an easy way to expand your reference...	2003-01-14
US	38923840	RG0LGY23KUT6	0936279036	430414861	001: Stressfire, Vol. 1 (Gunfighting for Police: Advanced Tactics and Techniques)	Books	4	27	27	N	Y	Realistic advise on combat handgunning	Massad Ayoob is one of the first tactics writers I came across when I first began interested in guns in the late 80´s. That is not an accident, given the fact that Ayoob is one of the most famous and knowledgeable writers in business, and his writings are published widely in many magazines. So, I have a high respect for him.<br />The book covers a variety of topics on self defence and combat, including mental conditioning. Ayoob has developed his StressFire system onto a complete package that covers it all. Therefore, he has something to say about everything. That in itself is a good thing, and it adds to the completeness of this book, but it also gives a distinct impression of \\"empire-building\\". Since the StressFire system is Ayoob´s creation, every time he mentions how things are better on StressFire, he seem biased. In addition, Ayoob rarely recommends a technique he has not invented himself (one of the only exeptions is Chapman flashlight technique, which Ayoob recommends in addition of his own StressFire technique). <br />But as I mentioned, the book is a complete package, and the techniques and tactics presented in the book seem reasonable and sound. I would recommend this book to anyone who carries a handgun, on or off duty.	2003-01-13
US	38923840	R30A04EBEK20RM	0809229072	366019839	Static Contraction Training	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Excellent training program, but incomplete presentation	If it were possible, I would rather give this book two ratings: One for the training program, and one for presentation. The idea of static contraction training is very good, and it´s scientific basis is thoroughly explained in the book. And, speaking on my own personal experience, it works! But sadly, the book is not as complete you would hope. There is not a word about warming up, for example. The authors explain in detail the training program and the exercises used, but there is only a couple of alternative exercises to replace the ones detailed in the book, and the authors have not given any instructions on how to perform these exercises.<br />However, the scientific background of the training system is exellent, and you save the price of the book by just reading the information about supplements and the marketing hype. <br />All things considered, I would give the trainig system 5 stars, and the book only two of three. So, four stars in an acceptale compromise.	2003-01-13
US	38923840	R1JLBTT8GHWJFJ	0873649575	920430587	Bullseyes Don't Shoot Back: The Complete Textbook of Point Shooting for Close Quarters Combat	Books	2	14	25	N	N	Not on target	First of all, I think that point shooting is a sound technique on close distance. But if I had to make the decision whether to use point shooting or not based on this book only, I would go for aimed fire. <br />The authors have hard time establishing a reason for using point shooting, and their reasoning is not waterproof. Additionally, when they try to justify point shooting over aimed fire, they fall victim of double standards. For example, they state that point shooting is superior over aimed fire, because when using aimed fire you have to move your legs to engage targets on your sides. Then they emphasize that in point shooting it is imperative to correct your stance by moving your legs when shooting to your sides! Also, they stress that point shooting is superior to all other shooting styles, because it is more stress-proof. Then they state that when shooting over long distances, you should use Weaver stance. The problem is that Weaver is not very stress-proof (a fact even Jack Weaver, the inventor of Weaver stance, has admitted). Where is the logic on that?<br />This book is not entirely bad, and it's better to have this book than having no book at all on point shooting. It's just that there are better books around than this.	2003-01-12
US	38923840	R1HRSYR6CHDDJP	1581601433	296037979	Surgical Speed Shooting: How to Achieve High-Speed Marksmanship in a Gunfight	Books	5	62	66	N	N	Excellent book on shooting	I don´t give a book 5 stars for nothing, but this time I had to do it. This book covers just about every aspect of shooting a handgun in combat, and it does it in detail. Stanford devotes a whole chapter on every aspect of shooting; grip, stance, trigger control, and so on.<br />I especially like the author´s attitude: He tells his opinions on the correct techniques, then gives his justifications, but he doesn´t force his opinions to the reader. For example, he is an Isosceles man, but still recommends a reader to attend different instructor´s courses; even to those who teach Weaver, and tells everyone to find out what technique works best for him.<br />The reason this book is worth 5 stars is that it doesn´t try to cover every aspect of combat, but rather focuses on shooting techniques, and does exellent work at that. I much rather read few exellent books on different aspects of combat, than several mediocre books that try to cover it all.<br />Just about only downside to this book it it´s name. I almost didn´t buy the book, because the name indicates that the book is about competitive combat shooting, not real life combat.	2003-01-08
US	38923840	R3VBT0AR401WRJ	0873649753	40969505	The Tactical Advantage: A Definitive Study of Personal Small-Arms Tactics	Books	3	68	78	N	Y	advantageous tactics	In the introcuction, Suarez tells that in his opinion, this book is \\"the most complete study of tactical principles ever written\\". That's a \\"minor\\" overstatement. It is not a bad thing that a man has confidence on his ability, but he should be realistic also. I don't mean to say that this is not a good book, because it is. It just isn't \\"a definitive study\\", as it claims to be.<br />The book covers a variety of topics, and has separate chapters on different tactical obstacles (like stairs and doors). But the text is not clear enough; without the pictures and drawings (which there are plenty) you would be hard pressed to understand some of the things Suarez is trying to say. Luckily the pictures and captions are very informative.<br />There are several things that bother me. First, it seems like Suarez didn't know to whom he is writing the book. Part of the text seems to be aimed to a SWAT team member, part is intended for armed civilian, and the rest to military personnel. Secondly, Suarez just gives his opinion on certain matters (like the best flashlight technique or shooting stance) without explaining why or referring the alternatives. You are just supposed to believe what he says, whithout thinking it out yourself. The third complain is that although there is some humor in the text, the book is a bit too \\"gung-ho\\" to my taste. I just don't like the attitude that \\"if you encounter a hostile, neutralize him and continue the search\\".<br />All things considered, this is a good book, but it has it's flaws.	2003-01-07
US	38923840	R2XHAAS3NIPZB5	1889031453	414504631	Advanced Vehicle Stop Tactics: Skills for Today's Survival Conscious Officer	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A very good, but uneven book	I first considered giving this book 5 stars, but then decided 4 would be more appropriate. The book is written in a clear and easy to read style, with some drawings and photographs. The first half of the book covers low/unknown risk stops, and the second half focuses on high risk stops.<br />The first half is exellent, and contains a lot of very useful information (several ways to overcome the problem of tinted windows, for example). The second half is not so good, and the book gets a bit repetitive towards the end. However, the tactics in this book are realistic and simple enough to remember even in a high stress situation. And there is a lot more information you would expect to find in a book of a little over 100 pages.	2002-12-31
US	38923840	R2TEOQDMYULCXB	1889031542	732753850	Advanced Patrol Tactics: Skills for Today's Street Cop	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Mediocre tactics, excellent point shooting	The book is written in a clear, easy-to-read style with many drawings and photographs to add to the clarity. Reading this book is a pleasure, so it is disappointing that the contents are not up to par.<br />The book contains a variery of topics, some of which you can hardly call \\"advanced patrol tactics\\", like the chapter on contact & cover (which, in my opinion, is a very basic tactic). On the other hand, Rayburn seems a bit too enthusiastic about such topics as shooting through the windshield glass, which is a bit marginal in my opinion. Additionally, Rayburn uses about 1/3 of the book on point shooting. That's fine by me, and the section is excellent. Rayburn gives very good justification about using point shooting, and gives detailed information on how to practice it. The problem is, this book should be about tactics, not shooting...	2002-12-28
