US	39013688	R9KDO29ENGOK6	0679731180	799831883	The Origin of Satan: How Christians Demonized Jews, Pagans, and Heretics	Books	3	7	12	N	N	God, Christ And Satan - A Strictly Limited Jeudo-Christian Perspective	Since time primordial diverse peoples and different religions have contemplated the nature of the cosmos and, more particularly, the question of good versus evil, good god(s) versus bad and other polarizing forces battling for terresterial mind-share and dominion. In The Origin Of Satan, Professor and theologist Elaine Pagels uses limited original study mixed with adapted and derived published didactics - from prior to the onset of Christianity all the way to modern times - to scrutinize the origins, developmental causes and consequences of humanity's contemplation of these questions and their desire for clarity and guidance. Pagels does a moderately good job of discussing quotations attributed to Jesus Christ, his disciples and subsequent followers to present the mounds of evidence and body of thought rather fairly. Taking a somewhat neutral stance the book discusses and addresses both the better-known texts and the more esoteric material to present a picture of a world divided along blurred and often antagonistic and ambiguous lines.<br />What is clear, however, is the misrepresentative title of the book. Far from being a wide-reaching look at Satan in different era and among different peoples, The Origin Of Satan takes the more commercial approach of not allowing up front its almost strictly specific focus on 'us' and 'them' from a Jeudo-Christian perspective. A discussion of the many other perspectives on the matter would have been welcome, especially given the book's title, not to mention a study of the matter along the lines of Jung's zeitgeist concept.<br />Nevertheless, The Origin Of Satan is a worthwhile read - if taken and approached within its specific scope.	2005-08-10
US	39013688	R26TCDH0VDOJDI	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Wittiest Book In The Galaxy	Question: what do you get when you take one big galaxy, one bigger dry British sense of humour, one outlandish cast of characters and then have a bunch of mice in a position of authority? Answer: Not sure, but whatever it is DON'T PANIC.<br />When Arthur Dent manages to unwittingly get off his blue/green planet, which is located in the unfashionable end of the galaxy, with help from his friend Ford Prefect he has to face the most ridiculous characters, eat at places one wouldn't suggest even to the in-laws, deal with a depressed robot and, worst of all, listen to Vogon poetry. Hyperbole, metaphor, didactics, truisms and sarcasm fly in hyperspeed as Dent copes with the needless demolition of his house (and planet) and hitch hikes his way with the freelancing writer for The Hitch Hiker's Guide To The Galaxy. It might not all make sense, but hey it is a big galaxy after all and the tidbits from The Guide and the universal translators known as the Babel Fish seem to help - well kind of.<br />The absurdity of everything, anything and nothing all come under the cosmic microscope as we take in the busy, bizarre business of the universe. Bonus material: find out what the ultimate answer is to everything, life, existence and the universe!	2005-06-29
US	39013688	R6035RO2DNXJ7	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Know Your Dream And The Universe Will Fulfill It	... Hey, nothing happened!<br />That is the conundrum afflicting the modern classic The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream by Brazilian author Paulo Coelho. Having travelled through much of the area in which the book's main character wanders and having gone through personal daze, trauma, tribulation, and drug-related unrestraint in the '70s, Coelho himself has undergone a transformation into a modern guru to the masses. Although materialism is oddly still alive and well with him given his need to cite celebrity readers, flaunting a mansion or demonstrating his bow and arrow technique on national TV. Perhaps that is his Personal Legend, who knows?<br />In the book we learn about the aforementioned Personal Legend, Language Of The World, Soul Of The World and (subtly) about the jurisdiction of Jesus Christ. On a positive note though Coelho advocates activity, happiness and swift action in order to realize one's proverbial treasure. The problem is that the plot and the outcome are never in doubt. The end is predictable and the universe is presented under the guise of a distorted language of inevitably. Taking action means a content character, aversion of disaster and much pretension. Only were we to act upon the superstition and supposition that The Alchemist endorses, that is. Alas, the problem is that readers are asked to believe things which are not borne by our lives. Can a shepherd boy miraculously read the omens of the earth, skies and the universe? Can a poor man get transformed into a mystic dervish of the desert if he follows his dreams? Can the hawks foretell the balance of things terrestrial and the coming chaos of universe? If the happiness is where the heart is, why can the heart not alter its course? Is hubris not the biggest sin? Do different enlightened minds really utter the same words of wisdom wherever one goes and do these sages really exist? Why is a camel \\"traitorous\\" if it has spent its life serving man, but eventually has to die? Does that not make the rider the traitor for his ungratefulness?<br />The Alchemist is a fable of paradoxes. The author has no qualms in presenting his self-defeating ironies as truth of the cosmos - much like organized religion. In that context, this book will appeal to the simple-minded, the religious and to a mainstream populace which finds much comfort in receiving simple answers to complex questions.<br />As far as omens in books go though, reading Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse is probably a much more lucid choice.t make the rider the traitor for his ungratefulness?  The Alchemist is a fable of paradoxes. The author has no qualms in presenting his self-defeating ironies as truth of the cosmos - much like organized religion. In that context, this book will appeal to the simple-minded, the religious and to a mainstream populace which finds much comfort in receiving simple answers to complex questions.  As far as omens in books go though, reading Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse is probably a much more lucid choice.	2005-05-22
US	39013688	R3GARSLW12DLFU	0061020591	403897559	Journey Into the Void (Sovereign Stone Series)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Ashes To Ashes, Dust to Dust, Portal To Portal	The conclusion to the Sovereign Stone Trilogy, the predicatively-named Journey Into The Void, follows the path of the sundered stone through Loerem and back to the portal of the gods.<br /><br />Book three focuses on the abominations called taan and their subservience to the lord of the void Dagnarus and that race's interaction with humans, elves, orken and dwarves. As the level of violence ratchets up, Dagnarus' ambition of ruling the world draws nearer. For 200 years he has plotted the moment when he would fulfill his ambition and walk in the footsteps of his long-departed father King Tamaros. His moment seems assured. Much like its two predecessors, however, Journey Into The Void relies too heavily on simplistic coincidences and twists of fate to be fully convincing. The ending, in particular, seems rudimentary and anti-climatic, although Dagnarus' musings about being a just ruler who will bring prosperity to his subjects are an intriguing contradiction to the linear fable of good versus evil. In the end, the irony is not enough to erase an inadequate ending. A partial redress is left to new and complex characters like Captain Of The Captains, Alise or Baron Shadamehr, but sadly they are stifled in these environs. That will have to do however.<br /><br />Every rose has its thorns. In this case, the thorns manage to overwhelm the story.	2005-05-18
US	39013688	R7RMZI5X36IJK	0061020583	516762020	Guardians of the Lost: Volume Two of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy (Sovereign Stone Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lord Of The Stones	Guardians Of The Lost, the second tome in the Sovereign Stone trilogy, follows its predecessor Well Of Darkness with more characters, more races, more action and even more oddity. The setting is 200 years following the fall of Old Vinnengael in the world called Loerem. The races distrust each other and one another while a noble few seek to reunify the sovereign stones and rid the world of evil and woe. The servant of void Dagnarus, still alive and bent on domination, has increased his army of nefarious Vrykyl and moreover used magical portals to gain indefatigable foot soldiers.<br /><br />For most of the book Guardians Of The Lost bears a close resemblance to Tolkien's Lord Of The Rings. Two sets of companions traverse the land carrying precious (in this case) stones. They flee and approach dark forces bent on capturing them and possession of the prized magical stones. The choice of the companions again defies logic at first, although the gods trust in them is ultimately justified. As battles, betrayals and bewilderment ensues Dagnarus is thwarted in his ultimate dream, but so are the noble companions and their custodians. The book ends mid-saga as danger looms and confusion reigns on all sides.<br /><br />The fantasy is rich and the characters motley, but one can only wonder at the semblance of the story to the well-known classic of the genre.	2005-04-17
US	39013688	RRO4CXPVWLZ9H	0385660111	47830763	It's the Crude, Dude: War, Big Oil and the Fight for the Planet	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Of Oil, War And Imperialism	Why did the USA attack Iraq? What drives American policy? Why was the Iraqi oil ministry the first location to be \\"secured\\" following the American push into Baghdad? Why did the American Donald Rumsfeld declare publicly that anyone caught setting Iraqi oil fields ablaze would be treated as a war criminal? What is America doing meddling in countries all over the globe?<br />In a book that seems to answer the pertinent question posed a couple of years earlier by Michael Moore in Dude, where's My Country Linda McQuaig connects the dots between the intentions, patronage, words and public proclamations of Bush-ites - and its predecessors - and their actions upon ascending to the throne of presidency.<br />McQuaig, by way of introduction, is the kind of journalist whom is given a token weekly space in an otherwise right wing newspaper in order to give the said paper a vestige of balance. Here though, she methodically sorts out the real reason for America's attack on Iraq (\\"low hanging fruit\\") in 300 or so pages and demonstrates the oil companies' scandalous plotting against the oil-producing countries, their own nations and ultimately their own constituency. McQuaig, whose pieces are essential reading for the open-minded and visual poison for the corporate types, of course does not stop at the weekly columns. She has several noteworthy books to her name. The latest is It's The Crude, Dude.<br />She debunks the notion that Iraq (or most other US policies) had anything to do<br />with democratization and uses documents and quotations to demonstrate America's criminal and nefarious plot to gain control of oil in a repeat of the cycle seen repeatedly in the last 100 years. She correctly describes a defenseless Iraq as prey for America's greed. There is something clearly obscene and revolting about the colonial attitude, but unusually the book makes the case that America's policies have not been good even for its own population. They have primarily been devised in favour of the multinational oil companies which have, in turn, channeled huge dollars into the coffers of their preferred politicians. It is this system that encourages corporations and lets them get away with it too. For instance, the book points to climate change and its dangers that are remarkably ignored by Americans, as if they have their heads in the (Iraqi) sand. Elsewhere, the book provides time-lines and maps, including a graphic stemming from a meeting with oil companies presided over by US Vice President Dick Cheney in 2001 where Iraqi resources were carved up. This is two years before Saddam supposedly refused to cooperate with the UN, UNESCO, WTO, NFL and whatever other sham reasons were given for blitzkrieging that country. Propelled by voracious American corporations setting US policy and a media which gladly runs with whatever propaganda it is fed, McQuaig points to the true drive behind America's many dealings worldwide as being related to oil and the profitable trade that comes with it. Interestingly, McQuaig cites studies and points out that the world is running out of oil, or as she puts it oil is being used faster than new discoveries are coming aboard, which can only translate to the commodity's rapid increase in value which, in turn, can only mean more greed and transgression.<br />Using extensive interviews, quotations and historical records and after travelling to different countries to speak to experts, the author dedicates several chapters to historical context and discusses and examines the options of the oil-producing countries and<br />America's policies vis-&agrave;-vis these. She also discusses the notable example of Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez who has taken control of his country's resources and mobilized them to his peoples' benefit. There is another option.<br />In sum, the book is an important book with much to elucidate even if it possibly poses one too many rhetorical questions with obvious answers.<br />It's The Crude, Dude should urgently come in Braille.	2005-03-08
US	39013688	R10IXXM19Y5BRS	0061020575	769651317	Well of Darkness (The Sovereign Stone Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Renaissance Of Void Magic	Well Of Darkness, the first book of the Sovereign Stone Trilogy, is yet another fantastic foray into grand world-building by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman. The authors' previous worlds, in books like The Death Gate Cycle series, were constructs of enchanting architecture and unsurpassed wizardry and Well Of Darkness is no less a contender in this respect. In the book the time-honoured humans, elves and the dwarves co-exist with the superstitious Orken on the world called Lorem. The complexity is heightened given the schemes and conspiracies rampant among the elf and human races which build up to betrayal, war and the unchaining of dark and magical forces which eventually destroy much of the human civilization by the blackened prince, Dagnarus.<br />The setting, action and intrigue go a long way in giving the book a rich texture, but flaws in character development and questionable reactions - an elf who abandons his post at the height of victory, an army commander who uses his reserve forces to quell fires instead of fighting invading enemy forces or a cunning prince who is amazed by a magus' most elementary magic - are the book's major shortcomings.<br /><br />Well Of Darkness is appealing enough to stand tall among books of fantasy and invite the reading of book two of trilogy, but will never be considered the authors' magical high point.	2005-02-24
US	39013688	R3D9CQTXF3NLUB	0738859176	84516788	Demonstrating to Win!: The Indispensable Guide for Demonstrating Software	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Showware - Showing Them Your Soft Wares	Demonstrating To Win is an exhaustive book on the topic of demonstrating software by experienced hand Robert Riefstahl. The author delves into the subject at hand with precision and detail through chapters like Demonstrating Is Not An Art!, Important Demonstration Concepts, The Demo Crime Files! and Your Demonstration Setting. There can hardly be a better resource than Demonstrating To Win for professionals in the industry. The book covers the obvious, mundane and elementary to the detailed nuances and tricks of the trade and aims to articulate the author's main thrust that in order to win the day the presenter has to build a bridge that the prospect wants to cross in order to reach you (and your software product).<br /><br />Each chapter is augmented by a brief summary which offers a synopsis of the topic covered and the author practices what he preaches by offering his experience in plain language. There certainly are a couple of instances where the reader will notice the book's age and its year 2000 publication date, most notably during the technical discussions, but Riefstahl's guide is comprehensive and advantageous all the way through and still relevant to those demonstrating software to potential customers.	2005-01-23
US	39013688	REXNGI7FGP7T5	0312118856	764069490	Samurai Selling: The Ancient Art of Service in Sales	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Do Not Leave The Sword Behind On The Next Sales Call	Here is a book on sales technique with a different angle. Samurai Selling: The Ancient Art Of Modern Service by Chuck Laughlin, Karen Sage and Marc Bockmon takes lessons learnt from the famed and legendary shogun and the nameless or ordinary samurai of Japan and applies them to the arena of modern selling. The authors are armed with metaphors, quotations, excerpts and parables of the samurai and use them to create analogies between the two worlds. Samurai, the authors tell, translates roughly to 'one who serves' and the writers seek to instill the value, along with other concepts like Ki, balance, integrity, urgency and APE (Account, Problem and Effect) questioning into the reader.<br />The concept is different and interesting, but the book has as many hits as misses. For one, the authors' analogies are often stretched and forced. For another, the book seems to run out of applicable parables on occasion and just does without. Moreover, to maintain perspective, the samurai sought to serve without looking for gain. The modern salesperson - and his manager - would hardly care for that attitude. Yes, serving brings and facilitates the sale, but the juxtaposition still has merit.<br />Samurai Selling is a lofty ideal - the authors' use of it to launch, nurture and enrich a corporate training career notwithstanding - but looking around one sees plenty of real-life examples which contradict its application to success.	2004-12-31
US	39013688	R3PKOSDOJ7P1I2	0671025570	669001158	Duane's Depressed (Last Picture Show Trilogy)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sometimes To Confront It, One Has To Get Away From It All	Duane's Depressed, the third book in the Thalia, Texas-based series that also includes The Last Picture Show and Texasville, is the story of Duane Moore who is a self-made business man working the oil fields of Northern Texas. He is a mild-mannered, aging and ordinary man whose walk to his cabin becomes a metaphor for his itch for a new life. The narrative begins with Duane surrounded by his wife, children and grandchildren, as well as the trappings of a typical rural life in that part of the country and ends with a world turned upside down and without any remnants of his past. Is Duane depressed or going through a phase considered normal for a sixty-two year old? Why won't he sleep in his own house any longer and could his abandonment of his truck, in favour of walking, be proof enough that he has a few marbles loose now?<br /><br />As Duane progresses through a profound transition much happens that might not have made sense once, but makes for perfect congruity with the new man. The family is gone, the business is in one son's hands, the dog is gone and the lesbian psychiatrist is not likely to be kissed anytime soon. What would any man do? What would any sane man do? Fly away?<br /><br />Read Duane's Depressed - a book which reads comfortably without the prerequisite of its prequels - and find out.	2004-12-23
US	39013688	RRS19V9UVBBBZ	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Being Is A River...	Hermann Hesse's Siddhartha is a parable about the dream of attaining bliss and discovering the truth about the one path. The story recounts the story of a young man who meanders through life, after departing his father's home, only to flow from a life of abstinence and piety to one of wantonness and lust only then to reach a tree at the foot of a river where pausing for a sojourn he begins to truly undertake the flight of his dreams towards the content inner self.<br />On his way Siddhartha learns life and happiness from many and yet finds that none can teach him what he wants to learn. Perhaps great people can not love, he tells himself.<br />In the short story Hesse, himself at conflict with his parent, life and often mentally at odds with his world, steers the reader away from conventional thinking on love, happiness and the meaning of existence. He casts the quest in a different light than most and indirectly imparts the wisdom that all things described are arrived at through passages which are personal and self-attained. Teaching is good, but learning is better. To hear one has to seek; not trust in the voice of another. To see one must look around himself; not be shown. One has to find his own way in this world and the guiding and soothing words of a wise man are not to be interpreted for others.<br />Siddhartha teaches that the river is not a metaphor for life, but is life itself. It can even teach one to think, to wait and to fast if one listens well enough.	2004-11-26
US	39013688	R1HDGLLY7Q6L6H	0805074007	932608591	Hegemony or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance (The American Empire Project)	Books	4	13	21	N	N	Bowling Ball Crashes The Right Wing's Pins Of Lie	Noam Chomsky's Hegemony Or Survival: America's Quest for Global Dominance is truly like a bowling ball crashing dead-centre against the lies and distortions of the right wing. In a customary logical and authoritative manner Chomsky poses a simple and elegant question. Namely, why does America's internal and foreign policies amount to nothing more or less than direct or tacit support for criminal acts of violence against itself and others? He elaborates on the theme - citing examples - by pondering the consequences and amplifying the inevitable invitation for a reaction.<br /><br />In this context, the book's pages flip briskly through America's criminal actions from the turn of the last century to World War II to the modern invasion of a defenseless Iraq and compare and contrast these with standards American sets for its adversaries. Page after page, Chomsky elucidates a regrettable litany of demonstrations of American injustice and terrorism past and present as the products of American policy. The comeuppance, predictably, is nothing short of horrific and the responsibility of a compliant and uncritical US press corps aligned with arrogant policy bureaucrats engaged in a docile frightening of the ignorant masses. As the serial of lies and fabrications are sold to the deluded public an emboldened and self-righteous American terrorist state pushes the envelope in its global hegemony and goal of imposing American domination.<br /><br />In a chapter called Imperial Grand Strategy Chomsky demonstrates how America has positioned itself as the illegitimate heir to British imperialist regime and also demonstrates how many a quotation from Bush II are almost verbatim the words of the maligned Stalin. Then again, the standards America sets for others are never quite good enough (or relevant for that matter) for itself.<br /><br />If that is not enough to scare the average comfy American hiding behind a shot gun imbibing something from Orange Julius then maybe the many quotations and illogical rants and tirades by clearly psychopathic American officials over the years should. Either way, the rational observer will discern the contents as the disclosure of the true nature of the weapons of mass content and the outing of the manifestations of the plot to rule the world in the name of the few and the privileged.cal rants and tirades by clearly psychopathic American officials over the years should. Either way, the rational observer will discern the contents as the disclosure of the true nature of the weapons of mass content and the outing of the manifestations of the plot to rule the world in the name of the few and the privileged.	2004-11-20
US	39013688	RQJ4JOG67JSQG	0060756047	556481777	The Good Fight: Declare Your Independence and Close the Democracy Gap	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Nader, (Still) The Bestower Of Knowledge And Truth	Ralph Nader, the personification of social justice in America, is a learned man with an encyclopedic knowledge of what is going on in the America of today. His decades of service to an ungrateful nation translate into a book packed with a litany of wrongs transpiring day-in and day-out in America.<br /><br />The Good Fight, Nader points out, just happens to coincide with his candidacy for the US presidency. As such, the book avoids overt political campaigning either pro or con - the book's sub-title notwithstanding - and focuses on listing, detailing and offering solutions for the endless catalogue of what ails America. The book urges civil action, education and participation in response to the predicaments facing the USA in every respect. Be it foreign policy, safety concerns, food or drugs, schooling and science, voracious corporate greed or the media Nader points to the problem and offers a congruent solution in an easy-to-read (hint hint, middle America) and concise manner.<br /><br />In the corporatist race to the bottom The Good Fight fingers politicians and big business as the betrayers of the American ideal and the media as the happy-go-lucky accomplices to the treason.<br /><br />Will Americans strain away from their TV sets long enough to listen and regain mastery of their nation? Probably not, for after all this is the exact same deluded citizenry that needs Nader, but frankly deserves Bush.	2004-11-08
US	39013688	R1NJ58P70H0NL9	1553650093	326603685	Blockbusters and Trade Wars: Popular Culture in a Globalized World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Culture & Country vs. Commodity & Company	Canadian authors Peter S. Grant and Chris Wood, respectively a noted communications lawyer and a journalist, have set out to dissect, examine and prod the policies and issues surrounding the concept of contemporary culture and the many forces exerting pressure on the world stage to either commercialize and liberalize or maintain or expand the regulations and frameworks currently in place to keep works of culture off the free market. In their comprehensive book the authors argue serenely and dispassionately that while the former will lead to a silencing of many cherished voices and the diminishing of choice, the latter is the key to the free expression of different ideals the world over.<br />Taking a cradle to the grave approach, the authors explore all forms of art and cultural expression from audio and video to books, magazines and more. Grant and Wood craft a lucid argument against the dilution of cultural voices through the inclusion of culture within international trade agreements. They further note in detail the large stakes in cultural politics and conclude that the liberalization of trade in this area is tantamount to too large a giveaway to be affordable for most nations. With twelve countries producing 80 per cent of the world's cultural exports and cultural creators contributing vast amount to their respective countries' coffers, the stakes are too important for governments - even from a revenue perspective - not to actively and consistently engage in defining and protecting their national identities. Ironically, it is this protectionism that will ultimately lead to a richer and more diverse quilt of ideas and expressions.<br />Contrary to the laws governing the World Trade Organization and other quasi-official fora for setting and proclaiming international commerce guidelines, the expression of ideas of all forms requires its own setting. This would ideally be a place of rational discussion and not one of cold and misguided decisions favouring purely monetary rationalizations at the expense of quality and diversity. The authors further expand on the invalidity of laissez faire and comparative advantage economics and, quite rightly, insist by way of modern examples how cultural goods behave and co-exist differently than their more tangible cousins. The prevalent economic theorems being faulty to begin with, they fall even shorter in the cases of art and expression.<br />Blockbusters and Trade Wars: Popular Culture in a Globalized World is of interest to consumers, observers and participants in the fields of audio, video, written word, broadcasting and the Internet alike and is a complete collection for those looking for an in-depth discussion of the workings of said disciplines within an economic context.tionalizations at the expense of quality and diversity. The authors further expand on the invalidity of laissez faire and comparative advantage economics and, quite rightly, insist by way of modern examples how cultural goods behave and co-exist differently than their more tangible cousins. The prevalent economic theorems being faulty to begin with, they fall even shorter in the cases of art and expression.  Blockbusters and Trade Wars: Popular Culture in a Globalized World is of interest to consumers, observers and participants in the fields of audio, video, written word, broadcasting and the Internet alike and is a complete collection for those looking for an in-depth discussion of the workings of said disciplines within an economic context.	2004-10-21
US	39013688	R32ZJ392PA3BT2	0553287737	202706560	The Bourne Ultimatum (Bourne Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Bourne For Showdown!	The final book in the famous Bourne trilogy is an explosive romp through the twists and thrills that characterize any Ludlum novel.<br /><br />As unlikely as it sounds, shady assassin Carlos The Jackal is seeking a final showdown with Bourne and makes it clear by tracking and involving Bourne's (a.k.a. David Webb) associates and family. Forced to defend his wife and children, the chameleon Bourne takes on the challenge, which leads to bizarre and far-fetched plot twists which take place in the United States, Caribbean, France, Belgium and the USSR.<br /><br />It is a savage thrill ride that is only marred by the inexplicable and irrational actions and mishaps of the adversaries and their foes and associates. Fasten your seatbelts and make sure the backup ammunition is close by!	2004-07-23
US	39013688	R2KBGI7BTEHCF7	1580622240	626958013	Selling To VITO (The Very Important Top Officer)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	How To Access the Executive Suite and SELL!	Selling To VITO (Very Important Top Officer) is a book dedicated to the science of getting past the proverbial gatekeeper and reaching the executive prospect.<br />The book discusses in detail everything from attitude to the format of letters one should mail to the content of the voice mail one must leave. In that respect, the book is complete and combined with the personal experience the authors bring manages to offer an above average methodology into an important aspect of most sales cycles.<br />Having said that, does the book's advice actually work? Well, the answer is some yes and a lot of no. Having put the methodology to work first hand - letters, labels and all - it is fair to say that VITO helps, but is hardly a silver bullet. In fact, while the book facilitated some headway the final end-goal was never in sight.<br />The failed experiment might be the result of bad luck or a small and non-representative sample, but the bottom-line remains that the book's effectiveness must be questioned. Furthermore, the book's content is slightly dated as shown by some of the verbiage which might be translating into the same for the content.	2004-06-04
US	39013688	R2JX7QKYI3CAV0	0553263226	366818317	The Bourne Supremacy (Bourne Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Bourne Again!	The Bourne Supremacy is the second book in the Bourne trilogy of author Robert Ludlum. This time around Jason Bourne has been flung unwittingly into the politics of China and has to both reincarnate himself and battle his own reincarnation.<br />The book is fast-paced, thrilling and certainly has enough action to satisfy the most ardent of espionage buffs. It, however, loses points once it begins to avail itself of one too many coincidences and lucky breaks. Sure, the reader is supposed to reason, this is fiction and fantasy, but a little more realism would probably have worked here.<br />Nevertheless, The Bourne Supremacy is a fun and involved read for those who can suspend their disbelief and dive into the thick of the Far East quagmire.	2004-06-04
US	39013688	R2KW5TIS08253Z	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bourne is a man on the run, but who is he running from?	Jason Bourne is a man with extraordinary skills. He has an altered appearance, access to millions of dollars and can get more using his many talents. The problem is that he does not know who he is, how or why he has acquired his skills and where he comes from. He is a man with no memory.<br />Stranded in Southern France and nurtured back to health by a drunkard doctor, Bourne is desperate to regain his past, future and identity. How can he do it though if he does not know where to start and what to look for? Moreover, there are individuals out there gunning for his life. A Canadian woman is helping, but will that be enough to remain alive when international assassin Carlos will do anything to end his life?<br />The thriller moves fast and weaves into and out of different cities and personalities. Twists abound and Bourne has to move fast or risk staring into the eys of death. The book is an action-packed and fast-paced tale of espionage and international deception, with many incredible and often far-fetched coincidences and breaks, but for sheer heart-pumping action The Bourne Identity moves as fast as a bullet to the heart.	2004-04-20
US	39013688	R1AXIWZMUQ2G19	0965879429	826593573	Rock and Roll War Stories	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Sex, Lies And Audio Tapes!	Rock & Roll War Stories is the new book of fan, musician, gadfly, author and critic Gordon Gebert and a co-author and is comprised of different, and seemingly unrelated unless one takes the eccentricity of rock musicians as a theme, real-life stories and episodes of different music personalities - as narrated by the authors and other collaborators. The authors have ample experience in the world of rock and roll, as do the other contributors who turn out to be musicians, groupies or music industry types.<br /><br />One cannot even be sure if half the stories in the book are legitimate - GG swears to all of them of course - but even at fifty-percent GG and co-writers have been on a hell of a ride - and so will the reader. The book is laugh-out-loud funny, insightful and voyeuristically entertaining. In fact, it is an unbridled (rock 'n roll) riot. Tales and sordid chronicles of musicians come thick and fast shattering myth and ego without mercy. It is always good to laugh at the expense of the music business and the over-inflated ego of rock stars and this book is just the tool to help in the endeavour. It is just too bad that certain narrations are anonymous. That is made up for in the appendix which features direct quotations from different industry types. One is sillier and funnier than the other.<br /><br />The escapades of the glorified groupies are simultaneously comical and vulgar. The chapters are titillating not only because of the detailed publicization of the personalities' idiosyncrasies and priorities, but one also wonders whether the narrators realize how pathetic and self-demeaning it all is to them. Not deterred by any forthcoming accusations of commercialism or lewdness, the author has placed racy photographs of half-clad tramps in military uniform throughout the book. It might be the perfect pretext for  Rock & Roll War Stories II for the author has now assured himself communication from rock musicians!<br /><br />Elsewhere, and admittedly the book was not after the literate target market to begin with, the work suffers from poor English. There are one too many spelling and grammatical mistakes present. 'Formally' substitutes for 'formerly,' one has to read 'they're' when coming across 'their' and the old stand-by 'your' is constantly substituted for 'you're.' What do they teach in schools in America? Nothing serious, which would be a good maxim for this book.<br /><br />No matter, Rock & Roll War Stories is funny, candid and a good antidote for a case of the blues.<br /><br />*This book was sent to me compliments of the author or publisheras not after the literate target market to begin with, the work suffers from poor English. There are one too many spelling and grammatical mistakes present. 'Formally' substitutes for 'formerly,' one has to read 'they're' when coming across 'their' and the old stand-by 'your' is constantly substituted for 'you're.' What do they teach in schools in America? Nothing serious, which would be a good maxim for this book.<br /><br />No matter, Rock & Roll War Stories is funny, candid and a good antidote for a case of the blues.<br /><br />*This book was sent to me compliments of the author or publisher	2004-04-03
US	39013688	RVMZ0BQ1UL8O6	0814470254	975992497	Managing Multiple Bosses: How to Juggle Priorities, Personalities & Projects -- and Make It Look Easy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A practical approach to workplace situations	Managing Multiple Bosses: How to Juggle Priorities, Personalities &amp; Projects, and Make It Look Easy is a book with an atypical approach to solving common workplace issues. Written by author and speaker Pat Nickerson, the book is in fact a compilation of issues, discussions and solutions offered at different seminars by disparate participants. In this way, the book takes advantage of a rare common wisdom and set of experiences. Moreover, The overall subject-matter is more true to the book's sub-title as opposed to its main title. Managing Multiple Bosses... has a broader focus than just managing multiple superiors. It indeed discusses and offers practical solutions for other aspects of the corporate circus. In this context, the book has a lot to offer and is even fun to read at times - the serious nature of the issues discussed aside.<br />The sole fault with the book though is its organization. Titles, sections and problems/solutions do not enjoy an elegant and logical pattern or organization. Rather, the book is somehow organized as one discussion after the other and the bold headings are of little consequence.<br />All in all, Pat Nickerson's compilation is an above average read for corporate citizens.	2004-03-12
US	39013688	RZDAJS6O6V4GN	1558503919	793438313	25 Sales Habits (2nd Ed)	Books	3	21	22	N	N	A Succinct And Easy-To-Read Book On The Basics	The 25 Sales Habits of Highly Successful Salespeople is a concise book on how successful salespeople go about their profession. The 25 'habits' are quite basic and hardly represent a revelation to anyone but the most novice of salespersons.<br />Nevertheless, the 130-odd pages can be a fast and quick review, or check list if you wish, for anyone interested in covering the basics.<br />The book's title might or might not be referring to Steven Covey's famous series. Either way, The 25 Sales Habits can apply to more than just salespeople.<br />Pro: A quick read with a quick reference summary at the end.<br />Con: Too basic for most and a partially dated entry in the ocean of sales collateral designed to launch a training career.	2004-01-19
US	39013688	R12SDSQ0A1A6OT	1579122612	776138912	Witches: True Encounters with Wicca, Wizards, Covens, Cults and Magick	Books	3	14	16	N	N	The Principles Of The Old Religion And More	Witches: True Encounters With Wicca, Wizards, Covens, Cults, and Magic is a hefty book that at over 600 pages packs quite a bit of information in its pages. The book is largely true to its name covering a plethora of subjects in different chapters. In fact, Hans Holzer often deviates from a strict discussion of witches into realms such as Satan, ancient Greece, the Celts, poltergeist and the like. Oddly enough the bulk of the material chronicles events and persons from the 60's and the 70's. Apparently, while the tome is a recent publication, the book was written in the mid-70's and given a cursory update and then shipped for printing in 2002. The book, consequently, comes occasionally across as dated by thirty years. Regardless of that matter, Witches... easily features lots of interesting information.<br />Holzer's bias for paganism and Wicca becomes apparent early in the book. He is clearly sold on the notion and often allows the bias to seep into the narrative. Still, Witches... steers clear of commercial sensationalism and aggrandization and is a good entree into the topic. Nonetheless, one can still encounter many grammatical and factual mistakes, as well as over-simplifications. The coming to the fore of the 'devil' on page 25 is a good example. Naturally, and often, non-mainstream ideas simply make too much sense for most and are difficult for the average person to fathom. Holzer tries hard to re-introduce witchcraft and 'the old religion' as a sane choice that is crudely ostracized by Joe public. It is not surprising then that Holzer dissects Christianity in addition to alternative religions. It is surprising that the chapter on how to become a witch is giving short shift and comes up with very few details. Moreover, in order to make his topic more palatable, Holzer gives the accounts of different contemporary witches and gives great space to demystifying the craft. It is here that the author gives the occasional rare and valuable glimpse into the world of witchcraft and paganism. Nevertheless, when discussing the dark arts the author himself manages to display much prejudice and ignorance while trying to distinguish between witchcraft and Satanism. Even this book's notion of Satanism is Christian and dated. Given the book's main thrust that witches and pagans are not to be feared and are more 'good' than 'bad', the book's early mentions of Satanism are annoying at best. Having said that, and towards the end of the book, the subject matter is treated in a more conciliatory fashion. It is possible that those chapters were written several years later and signal an evolution in the author's thinking.<br />It is also worth mentioning that this book would have been a much better read had the author refrained from his constant self-referential self-promotion. Safe to say he has written many books, stayed at many expensive hotels and met many witches who happen to be both beautiful and blonde. Holzer would have done better had he left out the autobiographical and devoted the space instead to the topic at hand.<br />Vanity aside, Witches: True Encounters With Wicca, Wizards, Covens, Cults, and Magic is a comprehensive book that is better recommended to the initiate than the insider.witchcraft and paganism. Nevertheless, when discussing the dark arts the author himself manages to display much prejudice and ignorance while trying to distinguish between witchcraft and Satanism. Even this book's notion of Satanism is Christian and dated. Given the book's main thrust that witches and pagans are not to be feared and are more 'good' than 'bad', the book's early mentions of Satanism are annoying at best. Having said that, and towards the end of the book, the subject matter is treated in a more conciliatory fashion. It is possible that those chapters were written several years later and signal an evolution in the author's thinking.<br />It is also worth mentioning that this book would have been a much better read had the author refrained from his constant self-referential self-promotion. Safe to say he has written many books, stayed at many expensive hotels and met many witches who happen to be both beautiful and blonde. Holzer would have done better had he left out the autobiographical and devoted the space instead to the topic at hand.<br />Vanity aside, Witches: True Encounters With Wicca, Wizards, Covens, Cults, and Magic is a comprehensive book that is better recommended to the initiate than the insider.	2004-01-08
US	39013688	RHFSC4HPCWHCQ	0968885500	363135960	Free Parking	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Financial Planning Can Be Detrimental To Your Health	-conventional financial planning that is!<br />Free Parking is just that, a book about living well, living happily, living in the now and not worrying about it all so much. Taking the Canadian social system as its departure point, contrarian author Alan Dickson - a former financial advisor and insurance salesman - illustrates the folly that is conventional financial wisdom.<br />Chapter titles like Career Choices - Be Careful What You Wish For, Financial Fables I and II and Taxes - A Nice Source Of Income are certainly not the standard fare dished up in a mutual fund prospectus. In fact, in the course of 180 pages Dickson makes a lucid case for ignoring anything and everything one is taught by the financial planning community. Furthermore, the profession is apparently not staffed by the brightest of the people. Which is the right cue for mentioning the book's many typographical, grammatical and spelling mistakes. There are many instances where the book proves an embarrassment language-wise.<br />Lines like &quot;quit while your ahead&quot;, &quot;5 year warranty&quot; and &quot;Instead of Government Bonds chose Family Bonds&quot; detract from the book. Having said that, Free Parking is both funny and annoying at the same time and a good catalyst for refining and even redefining one's ways and means.<br />So next time you are approached by a representative of the financial community, ask to see his own financial plan and be prepared for the inevitable double-take.	2003-12-14
US	39013688	R2VQGO5Y61P8OA	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Moore is not beating around the bush, but beating at Bush	Writer, director, humourist and political observer Michael Moore is back with a new book following the success of his book Stupid White Men and documentary Bowling For Columbine. He is once again employing humour in order to get his point across, given chapters with titles like Home Of The Whopper, 7 Questions For George Of Arabia and How to Talk To Your Conservative Brother-In-Law.<br />The tragedy is that, despite the irreverent tone, fact after fact in this book is deadly serious, and even occasionally morbid. Speaking of facts, \\"information, we want information\\" someone once demanded, and if it were a plea for anything to do with current affairs, Michael Moore heeds the call. The book chronicles lies, fabrications, half-truths and the sordid list of American evil being continuously perpetuated. This, while the USA seeks to ascribe them to others. The book directs rhetorical questions after question at George W. Bush and the establishment. The accusatory finger does not spare others through. The Democrats, Saudi Arabia and the thieving corporate culture also come under the microscope. Moore exposes America, and its P.A.T.R.I.O.T. Act, as a seditious folly molesting its own citizenry and beyond.<br />In the past, critics have suggested that Moore is reckless with his facts. This is why the book is meticulously foot-noted. Still, mistakes do creep in. Saudi Arabia, for instance, is not the biggest exporter of oil to the United States. Nonetheless, the book verbalizes dozens of problems with contemporary America and nullifies the many myths perpetuated by the corporate media.<br />Moore is like a bottle opener making contact with America's cola. Out pours the truth about Bush II, Iraq, Enron and everything else the nightly news program prefers to ignore. The next paragraph is a perfect example given its basic nature. \\"We attack the Bill of Rights. Yeah, that'll show those terrorists! Let's dismantle our way of life so they won't have to blow it up. This makes no sense.\\"<br />The only conclusion any fair-minded reader should reach upon completing Dude, Where's My Country is that United States of America is lead by a liar, which is lamentable seeing how much better America can do..\\"<br />The only conclusion any fair-minded reader should reach upon completing Dude, Where's My Country is that United States of America is lead by a liar, which is lamentable seeing how much better America can do.	2003-11-30
US	39013688	R3CMBA91O99ZFT	0811201880	942112163	Nausea (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The Thorough Smell Of Existentialism	French philosopher, Jean Paul Sartre's early novel Nausea is often cited as the essential book of Existentialism. The book follows Antoine Roquentin who illustrates the subject matter by living it in every minute of his life, on every corner and in every situation. The defeatist philosophy is neither negative nor positive. It simply is. It is the hollow essence of man. Having perceived this, Roquentin can not stand himself, the people around him, the objects revolving them and all related actions or outcomes.<br />The bleakness extends to Roquentin's object of research. He too, not unsurprisingly, turns out to be an adulterer, a charlatan, unworthy and lacking worth. In short, both the story itself and the story within the story are lambasted in futility in the end.<br />Wither in such a universe? Nowhere, for the illusion is by definition hollow and but a shell of nothingness.	2003-10-16
US	39013688	RVNJH12VUQXQ8	0140042393	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath	Books	4	0	0	N	N	United by Misfortune, Yet Rich At Heart	\\"I figgered the devil was the enemy. But they's somepin worse'n the devil got hold a country, an it ain't gonna let go till it's chopped loose.\\"<br />Grapes Of Wrath is the story of the desperate battle of migrant labourers with the rich, greedy, malevolent and the mean. When the Joads arrive in California from their native Oklahoma, their troubles and tribulations are rewarded not by bounty, but by even more hardship. What ensues is a timeless battle. It is waged by the spirit of the downtrodden on the one side, and by the mercenary mean muscle of the other. The story is primordial and resonates with any reader with a sense for perception.<br />The classic work of fiction describes a world where the rich, with their glitzy cars, ride alone and never mind hitting a man or a noble dog should one come in their way. Then there is the poor and oppressed who, despite their condition, extend a hand time and time again and never forget what is important on the great round dustbowl. The wheel in the sky seems to work against those who toil and possess a heart, but cruelty and oppression are exposed as mere facades that once removed reveal nothing more than a faceless corporate entity bereft of the right to exist.<br />It is in this setting that John Steinbeck writes in amazingly authentic and sanguine dialogue the flight of the strong-at-heart from, and again into, the belly of a system bent on browbeating compassion, kindness and veracity.	2003-08-26
US	39013688	R1H01WZCYQ0PZV	006052362X	627319858	Sound of the Beast: The Complete Headbanging History of Heavy Metal	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Impressive tome for an impressive music	Sound Of The Beast is an impressive book. Wisely aligning itself, title-wise, with the quintessential heavy metal album of all time, Iron Maiden's Number Of The Beast, Ian Christe's take on thirty-odd years of metal high art accomplishes a lot.<br />Sound Of The Beast successfully covers the basics and many of the sub-genres of metal. It incorporates literate, yet fluid, writing with a plethora of facts, trivia and lists to make for a compelling read for metal fans old and new. Simultaneously, Christe tackles - albeit superficially given space considerations - the musical movement from several tangents. In this manner, he introduces both a diversion to the purely chronological take on the music and injects something of a discourse into the book. As with most claims, the author's assertion of a 'completeness' to his book is false, but that is par for the course, one supposes. After all, and realistically, no one body of work will ever completely cover 30-plus years of musical and cultural history.<br />Having said that, the book does stumble more than it needs to. The inordinate amount of space granted Metallica only serves to demonstrate the author's devotion to this band. Otherwise if ever there was a band which had betrayed the ideals of the book's subject-matter, that band would be the aforementioned California metallers-gone-corporate minion. Sound Of... also has its share of mistakes (Metallica fact on page 88, calling AC/DC NWOBHM, etc.), irrelevant features (discussion on non-metal music like punk, mallcore, etc.) and obligatory self-referencing conflict-of-interest (mentioning past and current employers of the author without disclosure).<br />Be that as it may, Christe has done as good, if not better, a job as any of his peers. The book is well-written and balances the need for information with the necessity to keep the pace congruous with the readers' need for dispatch.<br />All in all then, Sound Of The Beast is impressive - that is, once one gets past the biography's ludicrous notion that \\"Ian Christe is the recognized voice of heavy metal.\\"<br /><br />*This book was sent to me compliments of the author or publisherbiography's ludicrous notion that \\"Ian Christe is the recognized voice of heavy metal.\\"<br /><br />*This book was sent to me compliments of the author or publisher	2003-06-07
US	39013688	RFYBQ5ZWQF409	0679750541	362948743	Culture and Imperialism	Books	3	11	21	N	N	Culture of resistance meets the exception of culture	In Culture And Imperialism American professor and lecturer Edward W. Said addresses the obscure and hitherto overlooked subject of the culture of the empire. More specifically, Said connects the previously dotted lines of culture, literature and the intelligentsia with colonization and subsequently racism.<br />The concept is both valid and largely original: imperialism has traditionally been associated with politics and economics and not so much with culture. The direct connection is elucidated given Said's definition of Imperialism (p.9) as \\"the practice, the theory, and the attitudes of a dominating metropolitan center ruling a distant territory.\\" The book discusses the hubris inherent in Western attitude towards its own supposed superiority, a discussion in which the works of mainstream writers like Conrad, Austen and Kipling figure prominently. The author argues vehemently that a cultural work of fiction can be imperialistic - intentional or not.<br />The book is indeed thought-provoking and free of nostalgia and hostility. Having said that much of the prose is shrouded in unnecessary convoluted writing. The notions put forth are not easily digested and not necessarily because of the novelty of the topic, but also the heavy-handed and complex text.<br />As such, Caveat Lector!	2003-01-08
US	39013688	R2SSBJFBC9IGZX	0451187849	922642678	We the Living: Anniversary Edition	Books	4	6	12	N	N	'Who is not with us - is against us!'	We The Living is a masterfully crafted tragedy recounting the life of Kira Argounova. Kira, born at the revolutionary dawn of the Soviet Union, is continually alone. Likewise she is doomed to live and die in a dismally solitary existence made even more lonesome by the presence of two men. One is Leo a former aristocrat-turned-dishonest and the other is Andrei the Communist. The men could not be any more disparate in their inadequacies, feelings and ideology. And yet they share Kira, which is a common theme for Ayn Rand: the book's hero(ine) is simultaneously involved with more than one lover . Notwithstanding that, as the protagonists, Kira and Leo are graceful, agile and sharp.<br />The setting is an abusive state which believes its contribution to its citizens and the world so great as to exceed any kind of justification.<br />Well-written and eloquent, Kira is exaggerated and yet thankfully disruptive. Romantic and tragic twists and turns follow, but Kira's character is always as dismal and wretched as the book. In this context it is remarkable how Kira unselfishly serves Leo while Ayn Rand goes on to make a career as the advocate for the mantra of narcissism.<br />Despite Rand's protestations, We The Living is about the Soviet Union - one tainted by her personal outlook. While her Objectivist philosophy has not been fully developed here, it exists at the underlying and subconscious level. Which explains why We The Living remains as Rand's most explicitly political novel. Of course, with passion and resolve running through her, she never paused to consider how the USSR is not what Marx had in mind. Which is just as well, because as noted We The Living lives off the author's unbridled commitment to her conviction. For Rand's world is ultimately made only of two shades, Soviet red and Capitalist eden.<br />\\"Comrade burglars, please don't bother. There's nothing inside\\"	2002-11-18
US	39013688	R19Q4TPRF7K0L5	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Puts The Con in Conservative	There is nothing like a dose of humour to diffuse any situation. Except Stupid White Men, far from diffusing, hangs like an albatross of shame around the neck of the American elite.<br />Very much a read-them-and-weep chronology of US-style deceit, conflict-of-interest and lies, the irreverent Stupid White Men addresses politicians, schools, minorities, Palestinians, Zionists and even -bonus!- includes a pop quiz for your politicians.<br />Michael Moore has written a well-researched almanac of the dangers threatening America. Indeed, those who dislike this book, or worse have not read it, are the perfect individuals of which enemies of America would love to see more.<br />Stupid White Men is a great antidote to the flood of mud spewing from the belly of the beast.	2002-09-25
US	39013688	R1MRWPL4RSZKZB	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Who am I?	And what am I doing in this nightmare?<br />Glamorama is the story of the Holden Caulfield for Generation X: lost, amused, forlorn, suave and so hip baby.<br />Glamorama, the latest literary jab by American Psycho Ellis, begins in the delightfully absurd glitz of Manhattan. The world is original and stylish. Devil-may-care is so hip that we are all insane. There are names dropping, cool people everywhere and their lives are so crowded that it feels downright empty.<br />Confetti, infidelity, Christian Bale, nouveau, niveau, art, amnesia, baby, fluke, flake, Prada, Christian Bale, hip, Camden, what's-her-name, Christian Bale, model, super-model, sex, man or woman, U2, Christian Bale and impossibly impossible lines, baby.<br />Then the world falls apart in the second half of Glamorama and protagonist Victor Ward (ne&eacute; Johnson) sails head-first into terrorism under the watchful eyes of a French film crew and we suddenly have double-vision. There is two of everyone. Is that a mirror? It's American Psycho territory traversing the world of reality and fantasy. Confused? Maybe.<br />We live in a world where beauty is considered an accomplishment and no one has the sense to glorify and disdain the nuances of modern society like Bret Easton Ellis.	2002-09-20
US	39013688	R2YDXPJPWFAA73	0552142557	66940291	Echoes of the Great Song	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Gods For a Millennium, Legends Forever	Many many years ago and in a land far, far away the Avatar were revered and feared as befits gods. Then the worlds were hurled together and two moons appeared on the tumultous horizon. It was a beginning. It was an end.<br />As the races meet, the result is inevitable. Or is it? For even in fantasy war is always no less and no more than hatred.<br />The Avatar are anti-heroes and now but a memory strewn to the sands of time. Yet echoes of their magic shall forever shimmer with man.<br />Here is that echo written in the form of a parable.	2002-08-12
US	39013688	ROLCEXZF7W1Y1	0312284330	800097894	Crashing the Party: Taking on the Corporate Government in an Age of Surrender	Books	4	3	4	N	N	&quot;Freedom is participation in power.&quot;	Ralph Nader's Crashing the Party is a tale of two candidates.<br />The 2000 US Presidential race had pitted Bush/Gore corporatists against the Nader/LaDuke Greens who were fighting for the soul of America. Betrayed by the establishment, yet armed with the truth, Ralph Nader exposes a series of evident, and many not-so-evident, facts wrong with America all the while rekindling hope for a country that has misplaced its soul.<br />Crashing the Party... reads well on several levels. It is a tome of what ails America. It is a book of political candidacy and procedural maneuvering. It is a travelogue and a diary from the road. It is also a book chock-full of celebrities, intellectuals, comrades and false friends.	2002-07-24
US	39013688	R1V0TYE4F7DQMC	0671798561	628570269	Nevermore	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Davy Crockett and Edgar Allan Poe investigate MURDER!	In a bizarre and playful rearrangement of history, Nevermore sees the meeting of rugged frontiersman Dave Crockett and celebrated author of the macabre Edgar Allan Poe in Baltimore of the early nineteenth century.<br />In the rich and quaint setting of the period, the brawny hero and the literary genius come to the assistance of the local police to solve a series of murders based around the mystery of 'Nevermore.'<br />The novel is rich in atmosphere and a delight to read for both fans of crime-writing and English literature. For not only is the story fraught with adventure, but the prose rich in its mastery of the English language. In fact, and at times, it seems as though Schechter is afflicted with logopathy. That though takes nothing away from the book which is a pleasure to read.	2002-07-17
US	39013688	R5WDC4SRT8RQ7	0896080900	962122124	The Washington Connection and Third World Fascism (The Political Economy of Human Rights - Volume I)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A discussion of American involvement in the Third World	Volume 1 of Political Economy of Human Rights is a journal of American Imperialism in the contemporary context of the Third World.<br />At over 350 pages, and replete with another 70 pages of notes and references, this tome is no less a scholarly endeavour than the other works of the authors and consequently provides for an informative look at US activity in most of the Third World. The book considers most countries in separate sections, provides background and historical reference and examines cause and effect.<br />One common motif of the book is 'stability' as coveted above all by American interests and how different overt and covert means are imposed upon different countries to achieve it.<br />The Washington Connection... is a brilliant foray into parts seldom travelled by popular media and recommended.	2002-06-24
US	39013688	RN3F8FYM7LOHI	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	12	21	N	N	The Solution Manual to Global Emergency	Exposer of truths, Noam Chomsky, is back with another timely book addressing the pain, suffering, misrepresentation and subversion ensuing from the events of September 11, 2002 in the United States.<br />9-11 is a compilation of the transcripts of interviews given by Chomsky following the event. Focusing on the event, 9-11 presents the facts as they are, as opposed to how they are portrayed. As is typical for the author, issues are examined with a keen and critical eye neither prone to jingoism nor to rhetorical caricatures. As Chomsky puts it, &quot;We can choose to ignore all the facts and wallow in self-indulgent fantasies...at considerable risks to ourselves.&quot; Which is why 9-11 presents events, facts and root causes free from aggrandizement and ulterior motive. Chomsky, while calling the events of 9-11 &quot;horrifying atrocities&quot;, reminds the reader that there are bin Ladens on &quot;both sides.&quot;<br />In the course of his interviews printed within the author reiterates that in order to deal with terrorism (as with any issue) there needs to be an effort to understand - something lacking in modern discourse.<br />If one criticism were to be levelled at the book, that would be the price tag given that the content is a series of transcripts. Still, as far as intellectual dialogue goes, 9-11 is both a worthy and courageous book.	2002-06-14
US	39013688	R2MZO09G451X2X	1888363827	241379899	Profit Over People: Neoliberalism & Global Order	Books	4	16	19	N	N	A Categorical Wrecking of 'Free' Market Propaganda	Here comes another fascinating compilation of clarifications courtesy of Noam Chomsky. Focusing on the topic of Neoliberalism and the modern yarns fabricated to promote it, Chomsky tirelessly demonstrates how countries demanding trade 'liberalization' today, underwent (and still do) 150 years of protectionism. How same countries deploy artificial barriers and legitimize their tariffs via a compliant business and media elite.<br />The book discusses the dejected citizenry, the dangers this poses to real democracy and how governments methodically accentuate this trend.<br />Chomsky exhorts the reader to participate in democracy as the only way to rescue it and details how America has been derailed into a kind of oligopoly of corporations due to the population's ignorance and non-participation.<br />As is often the case with Chomsky, moments of unintended hilarity are not in short supply either. One example sites how what is accepted and given wisdom in America regarding Cuba, would have \\"forty million Mexicans will die laughing\\" according to one Mexican diplomat.<br />The book does suggest ways for people to improve themselves, yet falls short on detail and lucidity.<br />As a post script and for the sake of readers trapped in the pits (geographic and mental) let it be known that Noam Chomsky refuses royalty for his books. Having placed his work in trust, he hopes that, in this way, his work will be made available more cheaply to readers.	2002-06-13
US	39013688	R1IDIEN4SHDOWU	0451157699	579745872	The Fog	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Nothing odd about fog in England...	Or is there? When a routine excursion for a contracted civil servant leads to his barely escaping the jaws of death in Southern England, one event after the other points to a Defense Ministry experiment gone horribly wrong.<br />A rather original thriller set in the fields of Salisbury, Fog keeps pace with the sordid consequences, zombified victims and scrambling authorities who try to contain the genie.<br />Fog is of special interest personally because, having visited Salisbury, the setting is indeed home to a British military base. The novel incorporates a romantic sub-plot and begins to fall apart towards the end. Still, horror fans will derive a couple of days' of gory amusement from the... Fog.	2002-06-07
US	39013688	R33J1EBY7PI5FX	0446364738	725994681	The New Satanists	Books	2	10	19	N	N	Everything Old Is New Again	\\"Is it not those inside the Church whom you are to judge?\\" someone once asked and one wishes Linda Blood had followed that philosophy.<br />The New Satanists professes to be a book authored by a former cult member revealing the systematic abuse and torture rampant in modern Satanist circles . Of all things, this happens to be the age-old fable Satanism heralded by Christianity.<br />The front cover screams \\"well-researched\\" and the back cover promises numbers and proof. Sadly the reader finds little of either. In fact, The New Satanists manages to perpetuate one tired cliche after the other in an expos&eacute; style of narrative that would feel right at home on your average tabloid's front page. The old and tired cliches of equating Satanism with horror, death, abuse and racism are given another airing in the course of the 240-odd pages. Furthermore, the author, conveniently glosses over the nature of modern Satanism, its rejection of the concepts attributed to Luciferian Satanism and how most modern Satanists are persons of above-average education and intellect.<br />The sorry and old attempt at drawing a line between modern Satanism and ritual abuse might have been popular in Sixteenth Century France but is of little consequence today.<br />While Linda Blood might disagree, the reader too has the right to demand proof. Where is the foot-note? Where is the empirical datum? How about the photograph or the corroborated evidence?<br />Furthermore, in a day and age when the conflicted sadism of religions of the more popular variety has manifested itself unto the consciousness of the population, it is difficult to read a book claiming a vast Satanic underground is inflicting pain everywhere when your average nightly news will reveal far worse emanating from your neighbourhood institution.<br />In her rush to define Satan (see page 33) as something suited to her book, Linda Blood neglects to remember that the difference between a cult and a religion is in the number of adherents to one and the only wide-spread stories of ritual abuse seem to hail these days from the enemies, and not the supporters, of the new Satanism.d the only wide-spread stories of ritual abuse seem to hail these days from the enemies, and not the supporters, of the new Satanism.	2002-05-26
US	39013688	R2CTU4G4XAABQ0	0896086119	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs	Books	4	15	20	N	N	An exemplary dissection of America	Bursting with historical data, foot-noted research and learned analysis, Rogue States is another successful piece in the body of work that is Chomsky's.<br />While Noam Chomsky attacks contemporary mass hypnosis and perpetuated lies methodically in chapter after chapter, he also maintains a keen eye on the big picture and consistently undermines American propaganda and sinisterisms.<br />You will learn how the USA and its \\"junior partners\\" have leashed the world and yank at will when their unilateral and, often illegal, corporate interests are threatened.<br />You will learn of America's arrogance, which is beyond belief, and how the guardians of the public morale allow it to pass.<br />You will learn that unilateralism is America's order of the day and how this rogue industrial and economic colonizer disdains the rule of law.<br />Chomsky fastidiously researches and proves which are the true international rogue states. He complements this with data pointing out which state deserves and earns the honour of being the lead sponsor and exporter of international terrorism.<br />Rogue States is a timely book for the contemporary global malaise and deserves attention for the empirical route it takes to proving its contention.	2002-05-20
US	39013688	R2LXDQEHMZT3RW	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Heinlein floods earthly religions with poison Martian air	Hardly a science fiction novel as advertised, the much-adored/abhorred 1961 novel Stranger In A Strange Land is a didactic exercise against man's ignorance and narrow-minded and terrestrial tunnel vision. Undefiled and unencumbered by environmental prejudice osmosis, Valentine Michael Smith returns to earth and is immediately feared and revered - by the establishment and ordinary folk respectively. The course is not hard to predict hence. The ideas and the rage against human doctrines are.<br />Heinlein preaches heavily and at will, while the book shows its age; the points made though are still valid and topical. \\"God is in all of us\\" and religion is nothing more than a collection of charlatans and shysters. The sexual references, towards the end, are controversial to this day yet mostly on target.<br />And, no surprise, mankind targets the messenger when medium and target collide.	2002-05-10
US	39013688	R3D0UPEHRMCZ5V	0060179171	376114192	Agents of Darkness: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An intelligent thriller ridden with intrigue	Agents Of Darkness is the type of novel designed to hold the reader curious and involved page after page. Well-written and surprisingly world-conscious, the espionage-oriented book takes the reader from the Far East to California and on to Pennsylvania where the book's finale takes place.<br />Main character Galloway is instantly believable and his predicament alarmingly real. He is down, but not out and beckons the reader to feel for him as he battles himself, his life and a nemesis given birth by his country.<br />With a surprisingly unfair ending, Agents Of Darkness may disappoint some. Having said that, the book lives up to its path of bloodshed and evil.	2002-04-01
US	39013688	R21UU28AMJTVRP	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Holden is helluva swell guy	What happened in the first place was in high school we were reading Pride And Prejudice with all the phonies in it, but then the guys were complaining and this Englsih teacher her name was Miss Mishka said we can read Catcher In The Rye next. Now you don't want to hear about all that and honestly I don't want to get into it. So now I said I should walk over and pick up the good old book again and you know what I missed it! It's a darn good book for chrissakes. Holden is the main character and you keep looking for him coz he's really real and really cares and he's so genuine. I mean that kills me everytime. You have to feel sorry for him though. He's an outsider and never fits in. He's really a kid. But people think he's insane. But I think he's sane as hell. He has his ups 'n' downs but he's no phoney, if you know what I mean. The book is terrific. It's descriptive as hell and so not pretending. Gee, I miss old Holden Caulfield already if you really want to know the truth.	2002-03-06
US	39013688	R1WZX7P2QZ3XO6	0812548949	5858821	Phylum Monsters (Universe of Fashion)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Incoherent Science Fiction	Phylum Monsters begins with an interesting premise. The year is 2345 (in that order) and genetic engineering has yielded a population of varied and designer beings aiding, abetting and living as and with humanity.<br />It could get interesting.<br />Instead the book weaves through a hodgepodge of Martian rock entities, 2 Pontiffs, modern primitives in Arkansas, a harem in Africa, 'Southworld' savages... with a long dead beauty and regression in the genetic creatures.<br />There's more, but why confuse anybody!<br />Phylum Monsters has little in the way of coherence or logic to recommend it to potential readers.	2002-02-28
US	39013688	REX7KMV4YOA3C	0553569155	799625292	Seinlanguage	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The TV serial in words!	I wonder what Jerry Seinfeld, he of the great TV series, would say about this book were he reviewing it. &quot;SeinLanguage? SeinLanguage? I haven't even mastered English yet!&quot;<br />SeinLanguage is the TV serial written down. Many of the situations mirror the show and remind one of all those more fun than fun moments we enjoyed when the show was on television. Lest you think the book is all funny, let me admit there are as many misses as hits. But past several poorly and awkwardly phrased sentences SeinLanguage is the type of book one would pick up for one hot afternoon or a lazy weekend morning. The book is chock full of the real life truisms that made the show click with so many.	2002-02-20
US	39013688	R2B6PBTIW3PERL	0075528142	33574257	Strength in Numbers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Manual for teams and participants in the corporate context	Strength In Numbers is a detailed and specialized book catering to teams, committees, groups, etc. and their participants in the context of the workplace.<br />In the course of 200 odd pages, Strength In Numbers examines every facet of formalized groups' interaction and attacks the concept from every conceivable angle.<br />Unfortunately the author fails to provide adequate proof. Real-life examples are scarce and next to no empirical data is provided. Furthermore the absence of footnotes and quoted research seems to belie the subjective nature of the conclusions. As such, one has to rely on a degree of blind faith to trust the author's expertise or accept the book's findings. This major gap in the book is partially compensated by the comprehensive nature of the book as regards teams' dynamics and the book's many practical and applicable tools and guidelines that are usually tagged at the end of the book's chapters.	2002-02-12
US	39013688	R1BYWNNYPBZ1WK	0553576208	606595727	The Trigger	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Are science and disarmament obvious choices?	Master author Arthur C. Clarke and Michael Kube-McDowell have joined forces and conceived a novel set in the not too distant future. Scientists have discovered the ultimate anti-weapon and mankind can finally hope for a pacifist future. Surely that is the best thing to happen to mankind, isn't it? Not so fast Colonel. The Trigger explores and chronicles a fictional `what if' scenario where the right wing US gun lobby, the military, think tanks, politicians and corporations jockey for position determined to affect the outcome of a new and emerging paradigm.	2002-02-10
US	39013688	R14RW1ZQATS54A	0395489326	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Yes, you can believe what people say!	What can one say that hasn't already been said about the most epic battle of good vs. evil?<br />Immortalized for the generations to come, Lord Of The Rings is amusing, amazing, fun, scary and suspenseful and surely the work of a master writer. The characters are alive, the events real and the landcape ever so uniquely convincing.<br />Perhaps, for once, the legend lives up to its reputation.<br />Never before has the choice of the best work in a given genre been such an easy and universal win.	2002-01-28
US	39013688	R385P7HH8OQISK	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Behold The Future In Black And White	Anthem, unlike the other fiction by Ayn Rand, is really an accident of time. The relatively short book, focuses on the banishment of individuality and the dominance of group-think to the detriment of the \\"I\\". The book has no plot, climax, cause or effect. Rather it serves as a long stream of consciousness of the main character who becomes aware because he is a \\"super\\" man.<br /><br />Written as a filler (until Rand's next major work), Anthem resonates with us today for the constant erosion of our privacy and the compliant approval that the majority accords it.<br /><br />In this sense, Rand is on the money and Anthem garners a high mark.<br /><br />Having said that Rand's extreme fanaticism with the cult of ego - awakened through her early brush with totalitarian desporism - quickly wears thin.<br /><br />Read Anthem for its implications for modern society. Beware of Rand for her fanatical one-sided approach to everything else that is virtuous in common.	2002-01-25
US	39013688	RGZKHY64LSMH9	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Is No Logo the answer?	I read No Logo with much anticipation and some prior knowledge of its content. No Logo is now both well known and heralded by many as an important landmark of the modern anti-globalization and anti-consumerism movement.<br />But what for is the book? What does it advocate and what realistic alternatives does it promote? More on that later.<br />The first pages of No Logo are less than spectacular and, for a while, I began to doubt No Logo. Yet as the book progressed, the content became heftier and it became clearer that Naomi Klein has done a good job of chronicling the moments of a monumental movement. It reads like an anthology.<br />Past the numerous run-on sentences, American spellings and grammatical mistakes ('desert' instead of 'dessert', 'but more important' instead of 'but more importantly', etc.) I was reminded of a scene on the Star Trek - DS9 TV show of all places. It goes like this: Rom: \\"The fate of millions of people depends on you,\\" to which Quark replies:\\"Boy they are going to be disappointed!\\" No Logo itself is published by an international corporation. The more No Logo sells, the more this company will profit. As the book progresses, it becomes more and more evident that the solution lies in a broad-based boycott of multinational brands, self-virtue and a lessening of consumption and materialism not single-focus boycotts. Yet, and this is the issue, you can not criticize and instruct others while you yourself are compromising. For the world is full of teachers and philosophers. What is lacking is people who practice what they preach. We need more action and less talk and if Klein can't find an alternative to resorting to a big corporation, then she might as well pack it in and stop pretending that she has something to tell the rest of us.<br />Having said that, I enjoyed No Logo. It raises legitimate questions and packages quite a bit in one tome. Even if I was looking more for Klein the solution provider and less for Klein the writer/researcher.	2002-01-24
US	39013688	R20FOCRJPV3MQW	0452273331	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	3	5	10	N	N	&quot;ruthless, arrogant egotist who wished to have his own way&quot;	He is the hero of The Fountainhead, the acclaimed and largely original 1943 novel of Ayn Rand, and the manifestation and representative of Rand's objectivist manifesto.<br />At one level, The Fountainhead is a brilliant ode to mankind. The unbounded and limitless demigod can do no wrong when he is he. The ego (fountainhead) is the source of all that is right, righteous and just (and unjustified) and rises above. Those who create, face and dominate nature; others are mere parasites. The skyscraper implies achievement; the &quot;housing project&quot; the prelude to the cave.<br />It is given this context that I salute and abhor The Fountainhead - an unnecessarily long book whose most virtuous characters have no kin, friends or family and abhor love of all except a subjective material creation.<br />I salute her conviction: it drips from every page. I cherish her writing: it is fluid as only that of a single-minded and honest artisan can be.<br />Yet I abhor the world she models. The paradigm that convinces that charity is evil and altruism hatred bears no real resemblance to the paradigms of the planet third from the sun. The notion that man serves by solely serving himself is too simplistic for this ball in the sky. Not surprising from a writer who condemns Nietzsche for diluted philosophy; and whose ideology pretends the earth as the perfect conveyor belt of production and product.<br />This reader's enchantment with Rand's conviction and literary prowess (despite the uneven characters) was not able to drown the flawed cruelty of objectivist good (ill?) will.	2002-01-18
US	39013688	R2XM5VPXRN7U79	0070511136	159455644	SPIN Selling	Books	3	1	13	N	N	Given the subject's limitations, as good as it gets!	Having some knowledge of the subject, I am of the mind that selling is next to impossible to teach, learn and predict. This may raise eyebrows, but let's deal in veracity, shall we?<br />Man has not invented or perfected the science which can predict human behaviour, reaction or rsponse. Psychologists and sociologists may well be the first to tell you so.<br />Given this context, no text can claim to have mastered the art of selling - it just is not a possibility.<br />Having said that, SPIN Selling does as good a job as any; having researched and field-tested its recommendations and results. That is as good as it will ever get - and yet, as mentioned earlier, there are no guarantees.<br />As such, I admire the book for being best-of-breed, but have to believe that neither this nor any other method will come close to covering it all or covering it precisely.	2001-12-28
US	39013688	R1CLJSDTD5TO8B	0061007129	409197252	Kane & Abel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Novel Of Men, Feud And Capitalism.	It is clear that  Jeffrey Archer meant Kane & Abel to represent more than a book which captivates its readers. But let's acknowledge that first. Kane & Abel is exciting, well-paced and draws the reader in from the beginning. It narrates the story of two men whose background and circumstances could not be any further apart. It chronicles their journey through life and their long-standing battles.<br /><br />Having said that, and as much as I enjoyed racing through the pages, there is the fact that the circumstances are too coincidental to be fully believable. The exaggerated circumstances that intertwine the mens' lives and pit them (and the other characters) against each other simply gets out of hand somewhere in the middle of Kane & Abel. The plot, therefore, would have benefitted from more formulation. Regardless, we're captivated and fly by landmarks of an epic battle of wits.<br /><br />What has not been noted is the book's unintentional condemnation of materialism. While the book lavishes praise upon the virtues of capitalism, free enterprise, and the mythical American opportunity, its many juxtaposes of East and West should serve as a reminder that the failings of these men was not merely personal but rather symptomatic of the affliction of materialism.<br /><br />A good book, a nicer read and a generous 4/5 from me.	2001-12-26
US	39013688	R11WX3CQBDRBBQ	158542059X	947173920	Trust Us, We're Experts: How Industry Manipulates Science and gambles with Your Future	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Armed with this book? Consider yourself protected!	I approached Trust Us, We're Experts fully expecting further mental ammunition in one particular topic. In fact, this valuable book reaches further into the spectra of modern disciplines and touches upon adequate aspects to justifiably be regarded as a rather complete anti-thesis to the excesses of modern society.<br />The authors' credentials sell them short. Far from being 'mere' PR industry watchers, the gentlemen are empirically prescribing antidotes to a series of described and explained social phenomena which each and everyone of us encounters daily.<br />Having done that, they methodically arm the reader with enough knowledge to allow even the uninitiated to better cope with everything from the media and PR manipulations to government and a fabricated modern society.<br />Deprogramming may be considered, by many, to be too strong a word. To those I say, this may prove your awakening!	2001-12-21
