US	39132837	R2PW2KVCW1OJWZ	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Interesting and entertaining spin on the Wizard of Oz	Gregory Maguire's book about the Wicked Witch of the West is primarily based on the notion that history (even fiction) is written by the winners, and serves to challenge our assumptions about the nature of good and evil.  In this book, Maguire takes the story of the Wizard of Oz and turns it on its ear, creating an Oz full of political intrigue and social unrest, far removed from the magical world that we grew up knowing.    Wicked is the story of Elphaba, otherwise known as the Wicked Witch of the West.  Born with green skin among odd circumstances (which present a shocking twist near the end of the book), Elphaba is a classically tragic figure, a person who does not fit in with those around her.  She is presented as a character who is somewhat anti-social, but primarily misunderstood.  Through her life as a university student, she witnesses the oppressive political climate in Oz, and takes action against it.  In this manner she becomes a truly sympathetic figure; a person who empathizes with the plight of the powerless, and one whose efforts to change society almost always result in failure.      Wicked is an interesting study in empathy.  Understanding the perspective of those people who do not fit into a society or those who fight against the status quo is not a skill many of us are born with.  Maguire took this idea and made a career out of it.  Wicked is very interesting, and definitely challenges the traditional notion of what makes a person \\"good\\" or \\"evil.\\"	2005-09-05
US	39132837	R158SOJE39IN0B	0684818981	378927219	To Have and Have Not	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Typical Hemingway characters, somewhat rambling story	To Have and Have Not is the story of Harry Morgan, a fisherman forced to turn to smuggling when his business goes bad.  It is, as all of Hemingway's work, beautifully written in stark prose, but the story itself rambles a bit and follows some tangents as it winds toward its conclusion. <br /> <br />The story reads somewhat as a story of a man's struggle to survive amid dire circumstances, but also as a contrast between the problems of the rich and the problems of the poor.  Hemingway devotes several pages to brief glimpses of the lives of several wealthy tourists and their \\"problems,\\" most likely as a means of pointing out their empty, materialistic existences, and comparing that to the poor on the island who scrape to provide themselves with the basic needs of life. <br /> <br />Morgan is a typical Hemingway character; a fairly average individual forced into difficult and ultimately dooming circumstances.  The story itself seems somewhat distracted and unfocused, but the writing is classic Hemingway; stark and ultimately tragic as events unfold to determine the course of people's lives.	2005-09-05
US	39132837	R3TUHLC8TNBXM7	0060507322	281213133	The Bad Guys Won! A Season of Brawling, Boozing, Bimbo-chasing, and Championship Baseball with Straw, Doc, Mookie, Nails, The Kid, and the Rest of the 1986 Mets, the Rowdiest Team Ever to Put on a New York Uniform--and Maybe the Best	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strange but true with the bad boys of baseball...	In 1986, the New York Mets were the most intimidating team in baseball.  It wasn't just that they were a team full of sluggers and great pitching; when the Mets came to town, it was probable that they would win, beat you up, steal your girlfriend, drink your beer, and trash your home.  They were the bullies of baseball.    Jeff Perlman's book about the '86 Mets is confirmation of everything everyone thought about them: they were a team loaded with captivating young talent, unrelenting drive, and an arrogant streak; as unstoppable as a runaway train, and almost as self-destructive.  From drunken and destructive behavior to the crazy pranks and music videos, the '86 Mets were a once-in-a-lifetime phenomenon, and Perlman captures all the forces that conspired to make them great.  From the General Manager all the way down to the equipment manager, Perlman leaves no stone unturned in his look at the team.    By 1986, the young stars of the Mets had begun the behavior that would lead to their downfall; the impending doom of the team's best players while the team was soaring is one of the most interesting facets of this book.  Perlman chronicles the rumored drug use of Dwight Gooden, Daryl Strawberry's alcohol abuse, and Lenny Dykstra's entire lifestyle; all of which made the Mets into an invincible caricature of a baseball team, and also conspired to bring about the downfall of a team that should have been a dynasty.    I really enjoyed this book; I knew the Mets were a crazy bunch, but I had no idea how odd the group of personalities were, nor how far into the realm of the preposterous their behavior ventured.  For anyone who remembers Doc, Straw, Mookie, Nails, the Kid, the Scum Bunch, and the rest of the Mets, this is a very interesting look at the baddest team to ever take the field.	2004-10-27
US	39132837	R1X10CQFM1LCZD	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Religion, politics, and sex in the middle ages...	William Manchester's book about life in medieval and renaissance Europe is an excellent study of the forces at work in Europe, where the power of the Roman Catholic Church was fading and more secular leaders were coming to power.  Some readers will object to the heavy doses of sex (Manchester seems to revel in the lascivious details of the lives of those in power) and pretty rough treatment recieved by Catholic Church, but all in all, this is a very interesting book about the political forces at work in Europe at that time.    Manchester spends most of the book describing life in Europe, where common people were unfamiliar with the world beyond the horizon, and the divine right of kings was immutable law.  As the book progresses, he goes on to describe the desire for increased secular power and corrosion of morality in the Church, particularly under the Borgia and Medici popes, and the eventual backlash against the Church, both from the spiritual and scientific worlds.    The last part of the book is devoted to Ferdinand Magellan, who is Manchester's man of the times; a relentless and resourceful explorer who managed to circumnavigate the world in spite of terrible difficulties and changing priorities.  This section, while seemingly a deviation from most of the rest of the book, in fact provides a look into the progression of Europe from a bunch of backwards fiefdoms into a continent of empires.    It's unfortunate that the parts of this book that most will remember are the tawdry sections, because there really is some very good history inside.  It provides a good introspective into the forces that would come to shape the political landscape of Europe into a face the world would see until the turn of the twentieth century.	2004-10-18
US	39132837	R2H69W8VJDWI6D	0871138549	429519064	Charlie Wilson's War: The Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fascinating and entertaining...	All at once enlightening, entertaining, and relevant to current events, George Crile's book on the CIA's covert war in Afghanistan is an excellent narrative about the Texas Congressman and the rogue CIA agent who were behind the defeat of the Red Army, and all the crazy stuff they did to bring about the victory of the mujahideen.  It is an incredible story, and one about whose details most Americans know very little. <br /> <br />Charlie Wilson was a boozing, skirt-chasing liberal congressman from Texas who was enlisted to the Afghan cause by a conservative Houston socialite and a washed-up British actor.  Gust Avrakotos was a street kid who became a member of the CIA's normally patrician Clandestine Services, and had managed to upset virtually everyone above him, but managed to grab an East Asian post simply by staying around too long to be replaced.  These two men worked together to skirt the diplomatic laws of the United States and support the Afghan freedom fighters, creating the greatest success in the history of the CIA and leading to the collapse of the previously invincible Soviet Union. <br /> <br />The way these two men worked in the shadows to escalate the CIA's Afghan budget from a pittance to well over a billion dollars a year is absolutely amazing, as is the good fortune, expertise, and disregard for convention each shows in his given arena: Wilson finding a way to fight his battles and get the government to pay for his overseas dates in the House, and Avrakotos finding the right people and managing a billion-dollar-a-year program with only a dozen people from Langley.  The way they managed to keep the CIA's biggest program below the radar, even during the whole Contra mess when the agency was squarely in the crosshairs of a democrat-controlled Congress, is amazing, as is their abilty to creatively bend (and occasionally break) the rules for their cause. <br /> <br />This really is an entertaining book; all of the people involved are eccentric and fascinating.  Some of the stories in it made me laugh out loud.  Avrokotos, in particular, is hysterical at times, although some will find him exceedingly crude in the way he breaks every situation down into a sexual metaphor.  Wilson's acceptance of his self-destructive character flaws is certainly endearing as well.  The flip way in which these men (and Crile, to a lesser extent) discuss the horrors endured by the Soviet soldiers at the hands of the Mujahideen is a little unsettling, but given the context of the events (including the desire for vengeance for Soviet involvement in Vietnam), is certainly understandable. <br /> <br />This is a very effective history of a complicated operation that is still clouded in secrecy.  Crile performed exhaustive research, including interviews with virtually all of the key players, allowing much of the story to be told from the perspective of those who lived it.  In all honesty, the worst part of this book was the final paragraph of the epilogue, where Crile attempts to inflate the historical, current, and future significance of all the events documented upon the reader and makes them into a warning, rather than letting the events stand on their own merits.  While this is a disappointing way to end such a good book, it in no way diminishes the fact that this is a well-researched and written story that is endlessly fascinating and a joy to read.	2004-08-05
US	39132837	R2J0QFB3CMTPCK	0688149553	621219797	Mash: A Novel About Three Army Doctors	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Great book...	Richard Hooker's story about three army doctors who deal with the stresses of meatball surgery in Korea is a great book.  Never mind that it served as the basis for a movie and one of the most popular TV shows ever; if you think you know the story, you probably don't. <br /> <br />The movie and the TV show loom so large in popular culture that it is almost impossible to write a review without some mention of the video version's of Hooker's work.  What we find of the familiar names is that the doctors in the book are neither the anarchists of the movie nor the peaceniks of the series, but simply a few Type A personalities who don't have a lot of respect for authority and are stuck in a tough job without much to occupy their spare time.  This is really a study in the difficulty of life performing meatball surgery mere miles from the front line, and the methods men use to cope with the stress of dealing with life and death situations on an hourly basis. <br /> <br />I think the most compelling part of this book is the daily wait for the six o'clock helicopter.  I won't disclose the plot details, but this little portion of the story breaks the life of the MASH down into its most basic elements. <br /> <br />I have to say I enjoyed this book immensely.  As is almost always the case with the book form of a story, the characters are so much fuller than they can be on screen.  Hooker has a dry, witty sense of humor that is on display throughout the story, but he never fully allows the reader to forget the stress and the pall of death and destruction that hangs over the camp.  Hooker establishes a fine line between humor and horror, and writes about three doctors who couldn't survive the latter without the former.	2004-07-22
US	39132837	R1L42ZF7YVREF6	0060082151	405352304	Be Cool	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The return of Chili Palmer...	Be Cool is Elmore Leonard's sequel to Get Shorty, and is, as are all of Leonard's books, entertaining and easy to read.<br />Chili Palmer has made one blockbuster and one bomb.  He's looking for a new movie idea when a former mob friend-turned music executive gets shot as the two are eating lunch in Hollywood.  The ensuing action takes Chili into the music industry and all the drama, ego, and jealousy that exists within, all in search of a new script.  Palmer takes on the management of an up-and-coming singer, upsetting her former manager, who spends most of the book trying to figure out how to kill Chili.  Along the way, Chili has to deal with gangsta rappers, russian mobsters, a mafia hit man, a gay samoan bodyguard, and a budding diva or two.  <br />This book was not as good as Get Shorty, but is still a lot of fun to read.  Leonard sticks to his formula here, shady good guys and nasty bad guys, all of whom are odd and entertaining characters.  Leonard has a gift for writing interesting people and great dialogue, and this book is full of both.	2004-07-15
US	39132837	R3PFKREWG04997	0471477532	786017252	Edward R. Murrow and the Birth of Broadcast Journalism (Turning Points in History)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pretty good, considering the format	Bob Edwards' biography of Edward R. Murrow is by no means comprehensive, but considering the restricted format of the Turning Points in History series, Edwards did a very good job hitting the high points of the life of the man responsible for establishing radio and TV news.<br />Edwards recounts all the notable moments--sprinkled liberally with quotes from Murrow's broadcasts and speeches--of Murrow's career, including his coverage of the development of WWII in Europe and the Blitz of London, and in later years, his crusade against Senator Joe McCarthy's red-baiting efforts for rooting out Communists.  The book is very interesting and well-written, and includes bits of information about all the men (and women) whose careers Murrow shaped.  Edwards' respect for Murrow is evident throughout the book; he gushes at times, though is not afraid to point out the times when Murrow may have erred in judgment.<br />Considering that one probably couldn't write a complete biography of a regular person in 160 pages, let alone the man responsible for the development of modern broadcast news, Edwards performed admirably in this effort.  He covers all the high points of Murrow's career, and more importantly, explains why Murrow was so important, and shows the influence he still has on modern media.	2004-06-29
US	39132837	R35D5MFTZN6XO1	0385494785	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great book about a terrible event...	It's hard to use superlatives when talking about such a tragic story, but Jon Krakauer's account of his journey up Mt. Everest in May of 1996 is a wonderful piece of writing.  From start to finish, this book is fantastic, compelling reading.<br />In 1996, Krakauer was a writer for Outside Magazine, and had been sent on an expedition to climb Everest.  An experienced climber, Krakauer joined a team full of climbers of varous skill levels and led by Rob Hall, the most reputable guide in the business, for his journey up the mountain and summit attempt on May 10.  When the following day came,   Krakauer found that several of his companions (including--eventually--Hall) were dead, and the survivors were hanging onto life by a slim margin, fighting fatigue and the elements in Everest's 'Death Zone.'<br />In this book, Krakauer recounts the expedition from his perspective, and tries to identify the circumstances and events that led to the disaster high on the mountain.  He attempts to recreate the series of events and decisions that led to so many deaths, and manages to find fault with just about everyone on the mountain, including himself, without being too harsh on anyone.  It would seem that the effects of high altitude, along with &quot;summit fever,&quot; were the prime culprits, and Krakauer delivers that point gently and with respect to his fallen companions.<br />Everest is a brutally Darwinian environment, and Krakauer's descriptions of the harsh climate and lonely deaths of his friends make for some of the most compelling reading in the book.  He writes of the loneliness of his companions' final moments, in the dark and exposed to the elements, stranded (in some cases) mere minutes from shelter; a saddening and vivid reminder of the merciless nature of Everest.<br />I can't find fault with this book, except possibly that Krakauer speculates about what was going on in the head of other people a little more than is necessary, but it would seem that his research issolid, and his willingness to admit his mistakes goes a long way toward maintaining his credibility.  Krakauer's account was assembled when the events on Everest were fresh in his mind; while he was probably still dealing with the loss of his friends and the magnitude of what he had been through.  As a result, the emotion and confusion of those days on Everest were still sharp when the book was written.  Krakauer's ablity to put these feelings down on paper and convey them to the reader make this a fascinating, saddening, and emotionally intense read.	2004-06-22
US	39132837	RJ64PW1IYL1OW	0140012788	324630215	The Reason Why: The Story of the Fatal Charge of the Light Brigade	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Arrogance and stupidity...	Cecil Woodham-Smith's story of the Charge of the Light Brigade is the biography of two men: Lords Lucan and Cardigan; brothers-in-law whose hatred for each other was surpassed only by arrogance and ineptitude as officers.  Woodham-Smith's book is the story of two men cradled by an absurd system of rank and class, who came together as two of the highest-ranking officers in one of the worst-run campaigns in British military history, which resulted in one of the most legendary blunders in all of military history.<br />In the lifetimes of Lucan and Cardigan (the late eighteenth and early nineteeth century), the best way to get ahead in the British Army was to purchase your rank.  The purchase system, as it was called, was basically a way for England's wealthy classes to keep the most powerful positions in the army for themselves, and exclude those individuals who were not of the same social stratum.  This system was supported by Britain's greatest military mind, the Duke of Wellington, who, it is explained, somehow managed to hide the deficiencies of the system behind his military brilliance.  However, by the time Lucan and Cardigan came into a position of authority, Wellington had long since passed away, none of the high officers involved in the Crimean campaign had heard a shot fired in anger, and the only combat-experienced officers in the British Army (those who had served in India) were unwanted.<br />The biography portion of the book gets a little bit cumbersome at times, especially for those of us who aren't entirely familiar with the British nobility system, but it provides an interesting backstory to the disaster in the Crimea.  How two men so completely arrogant and inept came to a position of power in the British Army is shocking, especially when one considers that it was widely known that neither man was fit to command cavalry squadrons, let alone brigades and divisions.<br />Ultimately, Woodham-Smith's argument is effective: the purchase system, coupled with the British class system, was ripe for a disaster.  By allowing incompetency to buy its way up the ranks while more competent solders were bypassed and more experienced soldiers were shunned, it was only a matter of time until the British experienced a debacle such as Balaclava and the entire Crimean Campaign.  Unfortunately for the British, it took two spectaculary arrogant and stupid men to breed such a disaster, and when it finally happened, it happened in spectacular fashion.	2004-06-17
US	39132837	R1AB07MAVVJGW2	0375405917	107666840	A Good Year	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good light reading	Peter Mayle's novel about a man who leaves his high-stress job in London for an inherited vineyard in southern France is not a great book, but it is a good enough story to enjoy, especially for light summer reading.<br />Max Skinner has had enough of the rat race in London and quits his job in the financial world.  Conveniently enough, his uncle has passed away and left him a small vineyard in the south of France.  Max heads south to check it out, and finds a small chateau with a small vinyard that makes terrible wine.  Or does it?  A second heir suddenly arrives, and the plot thickens when it is discovered that a second wine is made from a small patch at the vineyard.  The story is hardly a thriller, it simply meanders along lazily, much the same as the days and the lives that Mayle describes.<br />I have no complaints about this book.  I enjoyed it, and didn't take long to finish.  This certainly isn't a dissertation on life's meaning, and everything in the book falls together just a little too conveniently, but Mayle's manner of writing about Provence conveys just the right tone; the kind of laid-back life in paradise that makes the region such a popular destination.  It's not a thrill-a-minute, but it is a good, relaxing read.	2004-06-13
US	39132837	RPKXOM3OGT3OZ	0802139981	77869369	A Storm in Flanders: The Ypres Salient, 1914-1918: Tragedy and Triumph on the Western Front	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not too deep, but enjoyable and interesting	Winston Groom's narrative history about the fighting that centered around the Belgian city of Ypres throughout the First World War is a very good, if pretty light, account of the terrible nature of WWI on the Western Front.  While Groom simplifies certain issues and jams into 262 pages events about which volumes have been written, he never fails to bring the reader back to what many people find to be the greatest lesson of Ypres: the terror, wastefulness and outright futility of war.<br />Groom recounts the major details of each major battle around Ypres, primarily from the perspective of the British, whose professional army was virtually annihilated in the first year of fighting.  His cheif protagonist is General Sir Douglas Haig, who led the British Army through most of the war.  Groom's treatment of haig is pretty fair; he praises the General and faults him when necessary, though most of the other commanders around Ypres are not given the same treatment.  They are generally characterized as competent (Plumer) or incompetent (Gough).  The German command, as deadly as their defense was against repeated British attacks, are typically considered emotional and less than competent for the job they were sent to do.  <br />In general, Groom doesn't present any new ideas about these men, finding (as many other historians do) fault in the commanders for being uncreative, unrealistic (in that even after years of stalemate, many thought that one great assault could break the enemy lines and win the war) and wasteful, though he does seem to realize that there wasn't much alternative to attrition, and that attrition strategy is what ultimately won the war, albeit at a terrible cost.<br />Groom does his best work when recounting the plight of the common soldier, particularly the Kitchener armies that manned the front after the British regulars and territorials were ground up by the salient.  Their story, and those of their German counterparts (who included many of Germany's college students), shed light on the true tragedy of Ypres.  Hundreds of thousands of common men blown to smithereens by artillery or hurled against enemy positions across barely-traversable no-man's land, all while seeing neither gain in ground nor possiblity of survival.  Groom's descriptions of the terrible conditions in the salient is amazing, it is described as a place where men lived in mud and filth, the dead lay unburied, all while the high probablity of death by any one of a number of means hung overhead.  The personal accounts of soldiers and other personnel (there is one from a woman who sponsored a hospital that was absolutely horrifying) make for some very compelling reading.<br />The one complaint I have with this book is Groom's willingness to dumb things down, which is possibly an attempt to educate his American audience on matter which they may know little about, but is not at all necessary. <br />Ultimately, this book is pretty informative.  While it is basically the short version of the battle from a military standpoint, it more than makes up for this with its description of life in the trenches and the toll Ypres took on the common soldier.	2004-06-05
US	39132837	RLX7GQY23M373	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pretty fair appraisal of the situation on the Bounty...	Caroline Alexander's account of the mutiny on His Majesty's armed transport Bounty is a far cry from what most people grew up hearing of the story.  Alexander dug deep into historical documentation to come up with what seems to be a much more fair, and more realistic, view of the events and personalities involved in the mutiny.<br />What we find is a Lieutenant William Bligh who is not a tyrannical, brutal monster, but an anal-retentive micromanager with a loose (and harsh) tongue, who happens to be a pretty brilliant seaman.  Alexander explains how Bligh's posting was a recipe for disaster, from Bligh's secondary duty as the ship's purser (always an unpopular man on the ship) to the lack of marines to help Bligh keep order on board the Bounty.  Bligh's hope to finish his voyage without a single flogging is certainly contrary to what most people are taught about him.  We also find that Fletcher Christian is not a dashing, honorable young man torn between his duty and his shipmates, but a prideful and somewhat confused individual with a strong sense of entitlement and a psyche that is far from in order.<br />Alexander did her research here, and it shows.  From her findings of the true cause of Bligh's image problems (the Christian family) to the enigma that was Peter Heywood, there is plenty of depth to this story, especially with regard to the court-martial of the captured mutineers.  The Pitcairn Island mutineers--including Fletcher Christian--aren't really discussed much, but that's due to the fact that there isn't a lot of solid documentation about what happened to them.  It's mostly speculation, and Alexander did her best to sort through the stories to get what she could.<br />The book does read a bit as a defense of Bligh, as most of his transgressions are shrugged off by Alexander as being no worse than a sailor would have seen on any other ship of the time.  In addition, the entire Christian family is shown in a less-than-flattering light.<br />I enjoyed thisbook, and was amazed at how far off-base modern understanding (or at least modern Hollywood's understanding) of the mutiny on the Bounty is.  Previous comments notwithstanding, Alexander's version of the story doesn't really condemn anyone, and is pretty fair to everyone involved, even if Bligh does get the best of it.  The only complaint I have is the doses of near-nonsensical old English included in the text.  It's nice to get some things in the words of the actual people involved in mutiny, but I would appreciate a little helpful editing, just to ease the pain of deciphering some of these people's thoughts.  Ultimately, however, this is a very interesting and informative book that I would recommend to anyone interested in the whole story of Bligh, Christian, and the Bounty and her crew.	2004-04-23
US	39132837	RQP7RBADSQ0WX	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Pretty darned good story...	Dan Brown's suspenseful tale of the search for the Holy Grail is what good fiction should be: intriguing, entertaining, and most of all, thought-provoking.<br />Robert Langdon is a symbologist whose life's work is the study of feminine symbology.  When Jacques Sauniere, the head curator of the Louvre, is murdered and Langdon's name is left in his final words, Langdon is dragged into a web of mysterious secret societies and obscure religious orders, all while being chased by police and those who killed Sauniere.  His quest begins simply to prove his innocence, but rapidly evolves into the ultimate quest--the quest for the Holy Grail.  Along the way, Langdon reveals hidden meanings in paintings and art spanning two millenia, all while racing to save the secret of the Grail and his own life.<br />Taken at face value, this book is quite simply entertaining. Brown obviously did a lot of research, and presents some interesting ideas.  To his credit (or perhaps to his discredit), he sneaks a couple of disclaimers into the dialogue text in an effort to be pragmatic and to lessen the impact of the some of his assertions.  But the fact remains that the book is a work of fiction, and should be taken as such; looking for fact in a fictional work is an exercise in futility.  As an author, Brown has license to twist reality, and whether or how much he did so is irrelevant.  In my opinion, he did it well and in a very entertaining manner.  The fact that so many people are talking about it is proof enough of this.<br />The only problem that I have with this book is that the characters were all a little to clean; they were simple, with very little complexity.  Brown also falls into the typical mystery author trap, where characters are endowed with magical cognizant powers.<br />This book, as a work of fiction, is entertaining.  It never failed to keep my attention, and was fairly stimulating from the first page to the last.  Aside from the somewhat bland characters, I can't complain.  This is a good, solid, entertaining book.in.  This is a good, solid, entertaining book.	2004-03-17
US	39132837	R1IEM5X2VQ33WS	0142002658	645855517	A Nasty Bit of Rough	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Pretty funny, though a little over the top	David Feherty's comic novel about the loveable inhabitants of the Scrought's Wood Golf Club, and their raunchy adventures on and off the links is a pretty funny story, with a few laugh-out-loud moments sprinkled in amongst piles of bathroom humor.<br />The writing is okay, though it leaves something to be desired, and even the most die-hard Feherty fan will grow weary of the barrage of bathroom jokes.  Do we really need to know that a caddy pooped his pants in an airplane once (although the subsequent episode involving that caddy and a red sweatshirt is one of the funnier moments in the book)?<br />I laughed quite a bit at this book, and even if it was a little heavy-handed with the toilet humor, it has some absolutely hilarious moments.  If you like golf and David Feherty's sense of humor, then you'll enjoy this book.	2004-03-11
US	39132837	R3M41TYD9479SS	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Amazing narrative of what men are capable of...	Erik Larson's true story of the 1893 Chicago World's Fair is an engrossing tale of the birth of the fair and two men whom the fair made famous.  First is Daniel Burnham, the architect upon whose shoulders the success of the fair lay.  His nearly impossible task was to create the greatest fair the world had ever seen, and do so in less than two years.  The second man is Doctor H.H. Holmes, a serial killer whose personality and grotesque ingenuity kept his pursuers unaware and his victims plentiful.  The lives of the two men don't necessarily intersect, but they do run parallel courses shaped largely by the World's fair.<br />The story is mostly about the World's Fair and the creation of the great White City, the centerpiece of the exposition.  Much is discussed about the men and political forces which first brought the fair to Chicago and then shaped the fair as it came to life.  The magnitude of the achievement is truly amazing; it is hard to think that any project of such grand size and scope could ever be duplicated.  Burnham's story is very interesting, as the man who came from somewhat humble beginnings to become one of America's great architects, largely as a result of the fair's success.<br />The parts of the story involving Holmes are not terribly involved, though it seems that Larson did what he could, given the lack of witnesses and Holmes' dubious 'memoirs', though there is enough factual data to make the reader's skin crawl when reading of Holmes' deeds.  Larson takes some license with certain actual events, the details of which can't be factually ascertained, but with some study can be recreated with a fair degree of certainty.  This doesn't necessarily make for the best history, but it does make for more interesting reading and a more fluid story.  To his credit, Larson explains himself when necessary in the footnotes.<br />This is certainly an interesting book.  How the great fair grew out of the dark city of Chicago and affected future events, and even continues to do so, is remarkable.  The contrast between the great, gleaming White City and the dark reality of Chicago in the late nineteenth century, where butchery was the leading industry and people disappeared as a matter of regular occurrence, is striking.  It was an atmosphere where many men thrived, both for the good of man and for terrible purposes.	2004-03-01
US	39132837	R1NSW5FUAAQI4U	0060082194	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	4	1	2	N	N	As always, Elmore makes it fun...	Elmore Leonard has made the better part of a darned good career out of writing about small-time crooks pushed along by a good guy and a bad guy.  With Rum Punch, he sticks to this formula.  No sense changing what works, right?  The dialogue is great as always, and the plot keeps the reader interested.<br />Jackie Burke is an aging--yet still attractive--flight attendant who gets busted for running cash through customs for Ordell Robbie, who makes his living as an arms dealer.  When the authorities put pressure on her to cooperate in their attempt to bring in Ordell, Burke enlists the help of a burnt-out bail bondsman to make the effort pay off.  A game of cat-and-mouse ensues that is classic Leonard: entertaining and easy to read.<br />Elmore Leonard is a great storyteller.  He's not someone who philosophises on life's great mysteries, he simply spins a good yarn.  Rum Punch, just like his other books, is entertaining and easy to read.  For fans of Leonard, this is another solid read.	2004-02-28
US	39132837	R1S6RASOKHTDJ7	0306809907	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, A Team, And A Dream	Books	5	1	2	N	N	High School football at its best and worst...	Friday Night Lights is the true account of the 1988 season of the Permian High School Panthers, the winningest high school football program in Texas history and the pride of Odessa, a boom town where the money had dried up and desegregation had been in place for all of six years. Shocking, saddening, and exciting, the story of the boys who played and the town that lived and died with their every game is one of the great stories of American sport.  <br />This book is a portrait of the best things and worst things that come of high school sports.  It is a story of young men who sacrifice and dedicate themselves to a unified cause, ignoring racial and economic differences to reach a level of success that none of them could attain on his own.  It is also the story of a community whose racial tensions are far from settled and whose drive for football success pushes it so much that academic results are secondary, and the largest issue with social change is how it affects the football team.  The contrast is striking: the community loves and supports its football-playing sons, while fostering an environment of entitlement where football is the only thing that matters, and the football player holds the highest place in the social order.<br />The personal stories make for some of the most compelling reading in the book.  There is the quarterback who is ashamed to let his girlfriend see the inside of his house and struggles with his inconsistency; the star running back who injures his knee and is forgotten by his coaches and the college recruiters; along with many others.  Each one of these kids has a story that is tragic and hopeful, though in Odessa it seemed to be generally more of the former.  You see how the season and the pressure grinds on these boys and how they embrace and rebel against the Permian MOJO culture, ultimately pushing ahead for themselves alone.<br />There is a little bit of Odessa in every town in America, whether it's under the lights on Friday, or in agymnasium or on a baseball diamond, which is what makes this book such a classic.  The story of Odessa's Panthers may seem crazy to some and beautiful to others, but it strikes a chord with all of us who have ever witnessed or participated in high school sports, where the hopes of a community are carried by its young people, for better or worse.  Bissinger captures this phenomenon without holding back or rendering judgment on the people of Odessa, and delivers it in a stark, visceral style that lends itself well to the bleak surroundings of Odessa, Texas.	2004-02-11
US	39132837	R3REI0ST79O8YS	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Frightening and tragic	Erich Maria Remarque's masterpiece about a group of friends engulfed in the horrors of trench warfare in the First World War is a shocking portrayal of the terrible nature of war in the trenches and a grim reminder of the human cost of waging war.<br />The story begins with a group of young soldiers rejoicing at their good fortune in receiving double rations.  Soon afterwards, the reason for the soldiers' feast is revealed: half of their unit was wiped out in their last trip up the line.  The story continues in this vein, relating both the good times and bad times experienced by the men, creating a stark contrast between moments of sheer terror and close friendship.<br />One thing that this book has going for it is that it doesn't read like an anti-war book.  There are no diatribes against the powers that be or the evils of man, just the lives of seven young men who marched off to what they thought would be the glory of war.  They live normal soldier lives and ask normal soldier questions.  As you read the stories of Paul Baumer and his friends, you begin to see how men can describe their time in fighting as some of the best and worst times of their lives, how soldiers bond and find good times in the midst of the horrors of war.  As his friends fall one by one, Baumer begins to see that these good times are soon to be no more, and the only thing he will have left is loneliness and the war.  This is the central theme in the book: that war drains young men of their humanity and destroys them, even if they are not killed by bullets or bombs.<br />This is a great book.  The combat sequences are shockingly vivid, and the friendship between the soldiers and the experiences they share are beautifully tragic in light of the terror the young men face.  After reading this book, I don't think I'll ever watch war movies or read books about war in the same way again.	2004-02-06
US	39132837	R1DUKRQDX9TRIP	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great story, so-so reporting	Ben Mezrich's story about a group of geniuses from MIT who decide to use their skills to turn casino odds in their favor is one of those amazing-but-true stories that is absolutely captivating, in spite of the average reporting abilties of the author. <br />The students' plan is simple: use their exceptional math skills to count cards and put the casinos at a massive disadvantage through the use of a team strategy.  The plan works magnificently for quite some time, and the nerdy kids find themselves hobnobbing with celebrities and sports stars.  After a while, however, things begin to go bad: personalities clash, and the casinos start closing in on the team, making for some very interesting and dangerous situations.<br />The story really is fascinating, from the sheer brain power of these twentysomething students to the amounts of cash they are pushing through the casinos to the double life each one is leading.  The reporting, however, leaves something to be desired.  The author leaves a lot of questions unanswered (for instance, did Kevin Lewis ever tell his father about his other life?), and the whole book has a 'names have been changed to protect the innocent' feel to it.<br />As stated before, the story is incredibly entertaining, but ends with a bit of a whimper.  I would definitely recommend this book to anyone, but would warn them not to expect a fantastic finish.	2004-02-06
US	39132837	R7X06C3Z0FF1Y	034538623X	484061988	The Guns of August (Modern Library 100 Best Nonfiction Books)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	30 days that changed the world...	Barbara Tuchman's account of the outbreak of the First World War is the definitive book on the subject.  From the political crises and entangling alliances that characterized Europe in 1914 to the &quot;damn fool thing in the Balkans&quot; that set the war machines in motion, Tuchman provides insight and clarity to a complex situation.   <br />Tuchman goes beyond the superfluous details of the alliances and actions which brought the war about to bring about a deeper understanding of the prevailing attitudes in each country.  She explains the German approach through the expansionist philosophy of Hegel and Nietzsche, along with the ideas of Clausewitz on how to fight a war and deal with conquered enemies.  Also the political culture in France (where government was rapidly changing, especially with regards to mandatory military service), and the English policy of sending only volunteers abroad, and only when enough replacements could be brought back from remote outposts all over the world.  These and many other meticulously resarched details provide a fascinating depth to the story.<br />Also very interesting are the studies in character of the main players in the drama of August 1914.  Joffre, French, von Kluck, and the German Kaiser (among many others) are studied in detail, in an effort to understand the decisions each made through the first month of the war.  To her credit, Tuchman doesn't place thoughts in anyone's head; reasons for action are given in the individual's own words (as recorded in journals or official histories), or when the reason is not clear, Tuchman gives a number of possible answers puctuated by the fact that we can't be sure exactly what anyone was thinking.<br />This is a brilliant book.  Thorough from the battles on the western front to the well-intentioned if ill-conceived Russian offensive at Tannenberg, along with an interesting subplot with the German battle cruiser Goeben, the intricate detail, along with Tuchman's reader-friendly writing style,  make for some great reading.	2004-01-26
US	39132837	R3N3NXZCMABQHR	0060084022	788000175	The Big Bounce	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Elmore, entertaining as always	Jack Ryan is a small-time migrant worker/burgular/baseball player who's never accomplished much, aside from getting arrested a couple of times and finding a job as a hotel handyman.  Nancy Hayes is a rich man's girlfriend who's made a life out of taking advantage of men and whose idea of a good time is shooting out windows and running people off the road.  When the two of them get together, Nancy sees a guy who can help her latest boyfriend pay off, while Jack just sees someone attractive and interesting, but whom he can't quite figure out.<br />It's hard not to like any of Elmore Leonard's books; the characters are always shady, the plots are always interesting, and the dialogue is always fantastic.  The Big Bounce is no different, though the ending is a little odd.  This isn't Leonard's best book, but it's still entertaining and a pretty quick read.  If you like Leonard's other work, you won't be disappointed with this book.	2004-01-26
US	39132837	R33C2TYAYFIA87	0743448219	858244378	The Four Feathers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great story of love, courage, and friendship	A.E.W. Mason's classic story of love lost and courage found is over a hundred years old, but its themes are timeless: love, friendship, and courage, along with the human desire to make right the wrongs of the past.<br />Harry Feversham is a young officer in the British army whose greatest fear is to be seen a coward, and disgrace those whom he loves.  On the night he finds out that he is to be sent to war in Egypt, he resigns his commission in order to avoid any possibility that his fears may be realized.  In response to Feversham's act, three of his friends send him three white feathers as a symbol that in their eyes, the decision makes him a coward.  When Feversham's fiancee, Ethne Eustace, finds out about Feversham's act and the three feathers, she gives Harry a fourth feather, and casts him out of her life.  A broken man, Feversham quitely resolves to redeem himself by proving his bravery to each of the four, forcing each to recant their accusation of cowardice and take back the feather that each person gave.<br />What evolves is a grand tale of adventure, as the lives of Feversham and his closest friends move along through the next few years.  Ethne moves on with her life, while not entirely forgetting Feversham, nor forgiving herself for her harsh treatment of him.  Harry's best friend, Jack Durrance, is blinded in the Sudan and returns to England to marry Ethne, but never forgets about Feversham, and wonders what happened to his friend.  As details of Feversham's deeds begin to emerge, both Ethne and Durrance begin to understand Feversham's character; they realize their true feelings about him, and about each other.<br />The characters in Mason's story have a Victorian simplicity, which, while limiting their outward emotions, adds to the conflict with which they have to deal.  The desire to do the right thing, for love or friendship, is a strong theme in this book, which works well with the contrast between the harsh Sudan and the comforts of England; for ineach location, the characters are found to suffer and survive in different ways, but in equal measure.  For having been written 100 years ago, the characters and story hold up very well against modern standards. <br />I very much enjoyed this book, and now understand why it has been made into a movie several times.  The combination of intense emotion and epic adventure in far-off lands makes for some compelling reading, and a wonderful story.	2004-01-09
US	39132837	R3POXRFV596SKO	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliant dissertation on censorship	Guy Montag is a fireman; he starts fires to burn the houses of people who keep books illegally.  He enjoys his job and doesn't ask any questions, until a series of events open his eyes to the emptiness around him, forcing him to question everything about himself and the society in which he lives.<br />The story that Bradbury wrote over fifty years ago is every bit as effective as the day it was published.  The censorship he describes isn't simply the result of an overbearing government, it begins as a function of the masses, whose desire for political correctness and 'happiness' lead to the destruction of things that offend and stir emotions.  The solution, along with burning the offending books, is to bombard the senses so as to eliminate the thought process entirely.<br />In this age of political correctness and mass media, Bradbury's words ring more true than ever.  His vision of a society where all men are not created equal, but made equal, is a stern warning against the elimination of individual thought and the idea that true happiness comes from being constantly entertained.<br />I can't begin to do this book justice; nearly every page contains a thought-provoking passage.  Bradbury wrote a classic whose truth is timeless and that everyone should read at least once.	2004-01-07
US	39132837	R16U67RP2IA3TX	1590710096	53614697	Somewhere in Ireland A Village is Missing an Idiot	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Good, old-fashioned clubhouse humor	To many people, golf is a tradition-rich sport, governed by stuffy, upper-class men with little or no sense of humor.  For people who play golf, there is another side of the game: the funny, raunchy, and sometimes obscene area where most weekend duffers spend their golfing lives and many professionals spend much of their off-camera time.  David Feherty is a member of the latter group, and has collected a group of his Golf Digest articles to make this book.<br />Feherty is a former professional golfer who now works as a commentator for CBS Sports, and has spent various portions of his career in various locales, both mainstream and remote.  His tales of life on the Safari Tour and on the European Tour are priceless stories of anonymous toil in golf backwaters told as only Feherty can tell them.  He skewers many in his stories, from the golf establishment to frequent partner Gary McCord, mercilessly, while reserving the most embarassing stories for himself.  This self-deprecating humor is certainly endearing and makes for some of the best reading in the book.<br />Also included are great articles which display the emotional side of golf from an insider's perspective, from the patriotic fervor of Davis Cup competitors to the grief felt by the whole tour at the loss of Payne Stewart.<br />As some reviewers have mentioned, the humor in this book tends to focus on bodily functions.  If gas jokes offend you, then this is not the book for you.  If they don't, then get ready for some great golf writing and absolute hilarity, Feherty-style.	2003-12-27
US	39132837	R32C3U4M3FBYYE	0679785892	58271710	Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream	Books	5	5	7	N	N	(Mis)adventures of a gonzo journalist	Along with Ken Kesey, Hunter S. Thompson is one of the literary icons of the drug/counter culture of the late sixties and early seventies.  His account of a drug-fueled trip through the desert and into Las Vegas is, arguably, the definitive work on the subject.<br />Thompson (aka Raoul Duke) and his attorney leave Los Angeles on an assignment to cover a motocross race in Las Vegas, stocked with a veritable cornucopia of drugs of every shape and color.  Once there, they do very little reporting and very much consuming, leading to a series of odd encounters and experiences.  As their assignment is running out and they are trying to find a way to get out of their hotel without paying their enormous room service bill, a new assignment arrives:  to cover the national conference for district attorneys on narcotics and dangerous drugs.  Oh, the irony.  The adventures continue from there. <br />One of the things that makes this book enjoyable for so many people is the way that Thompson simply reports on his condition throughout his adventure, without editorializing on the greater issues of the drug culture.  While there's little argument on where Thompson stands on the drug issue, he writes of the good and the bad with detached observation, while continuing to keep the reader entertained with accounts of bizarre behavior and drug-addled insanity.  Thompson also mentions that the the drug culture espoused by Kesey isn't all it was cracked up to be, though this is brought up largely out of the realization that while he is having a good time, what he's doing isn't very good for himself.<br />This is a fantastic story that everyone will get something out of, whether it's the evils of dope, the insanity of enforcement, or just simple entertainment.  This book is, quite simply, a good time and an interesting peek into the drug culture of the early seventies.	2003-12-27
US	39132837	R1E62RW7CLLUBS	0380822237	689073601	Valdez Is Coming	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good western adventure	Elmore Leonard is largely known for his crime novels, but through the years, he's managed to squeeze in a few westerns.  Valdez is Coming is one of these, and is an excellent adventure story.<br />Bob Valdez is a local part-time constable whom nobody really notices.  When a shady character tricks him into killing an innocent man, he asks those responsible to share in the burden of supporting the dead man's wife.  They refuse, beating and humiliating Valdez in the process.  This pushes Valdez over the edge, and he kidnaps the bad guy's girlfriend and begins a killing spree against his gang of thugs.<br />As in all Leonard books, the dialogue here is great.  The story is also very well-written.  I enjoyed this book over the course of an evening; it's a very entertaining and quick 256 pages.	2003-12-23
US	39132837	RXERGTO7MDG05	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderful volume...	Rick Atkinson's meticulously researched account of World War II in North Africa is a comprehensive account of the campaign that turned the U.S. Army from inexperienced soldiers to battle-hardened veterans.  From Morocco to Tunisia and all points in between, the soldiers and leaders who drove the Axis out of Africa are discussed in detail.<br />From the initial disasters of operation RESERVIST and the confusion that characterized the TORCH landings to the final drive on Tunis, the campaign is dissected in minute detail.  The reasons for action and the mentality of the troops are recounted through both battle descriptions and individual correspondence.  Atkinson does a fine job of giving credit and placing blame with the leaders responsible for the results of battles, holding those people accountable for their actions while not villifying or glorifying them excessively.  There were other forces at work aside from these men, and Atkinson gives these their due.  We also get to meet men like Terry Allen and Robert Moore, about whom you don't see much in the normal history books.<br />The political side of the battle is also recounted in detail.  Eisenhower's struggles with Anglo-French-American relations, as well as his strategic decision-making, make for some of the best reading in the book, highlighted by his personal correspondence.  I had no idea that distrust and disdain between the British and the Americans ran so deep early in the war, and while Montgomery's distaste for Americans (and anyone who wasn't named Montgomery, for that matter) is well-documented, I was somewhat surprised at the Anglophobia of many American genterals, including Bradley.  Also somewhat surprising were the bizarre antics of the French leadership once Allied forces were headed East.<br />Ultimately, the value of the North African Campaign is discussed.  Atkinson contends that the timing of the campaign was ideal, both for the subsequent invasions of Sicily and Italy, and for the eventual invasion of northern Europe.  He makes several good points along this line, that the war in North Africa was good for the Americans to get their feet wet and understand was modern war was about, while also getting the kinks in their logistical system, which was as important as any part of the war, straightened out.<br />This is a comprehensive account of the American drive across North Africa, and its evolution from peacetime army to wartime army.  Lessons learned and not learned are discussed in detail, and the reader really gets to understand the campaign through both official accounts and personal correspondence.  Atkinson did his homework on this book, and it shows.  It's a masterpiece of military history.	2003-12-17
US	39132837	R15YMPXG64JU5N	0151006091	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark story of historical intrigue...	In 1941, Klaus Felsen is forced out of his business in Germany to begin smuggling wolfram out of Portugal to feed the Nazi war machine.  In the late 1990s, teenager Caterina Oliveira is found dead in Lisbon.  How are these two events, over fifty years apart, related?  What brings them together is a tale of intrigue, lust, treachery and history.<br />Robert Wilson uses the little-known history of Portugal and the events which happened there during World War 2 to create a fascinating story.  The events in Portugal, from the Salazar regime forward, affect the plot in ways that add flavor to the mystery and keep the reader interested.<br />The characters are all very human.  All have their urges and failings, along with pretty high sex drives.  Sex is a pervasive theme in this book, and some may find this a little distasteful, but we're dealing with criminals here, and they're not always nice people.<br />I really liked the way the mystery came together.  Much like a real investigation, certain names began showing up freqently, and eventually the reasons why were discovered.  A plot twist at the end, along with a slightly incomplete resolution, make for a great, if not entirely satisfying, ending.<br />Personally, I enjoyed this book.  The mix of historical information along with the suspense of the investigation made for some great reading.  It's pretty sordid in parts, on the whole, it is a good, dark mystery.	2003-10-14
US	39132837	RE9XCFZZZNBA4	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Communism in the real world (talking animals excepted)...	Orwell's satire of Soviet Communism and the death of Utopia is one of the standards of political satire of the twentieth century.  The motto that \\"All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others\\" resonates through this story as the major failure of Communism.<br />The story begins on a farm where the animals have had enough of their human owner and stage a revolt.  Initially, all animals are equal, but soon enough, the pigs take control and slowly turn the Farm into a dictatorship, while perverting the original commandments laid down after the Revolution.  Lenin, Stalin, Trotsky and the NKVD are well-represented by various animal characters, as are the show trials and massive state projects undertaken by the Soviets.  Most compelling are the workers, especially the horse Boxer, whose motto, \\"I will work harder,\\" is a simple mantra of the optimism of the Revolution and the willingness to carry whatever load is asked, for the good of the Farm.  When Boxer is no longer useful, he is ungloriously disposed of, with little regard or thanks for his years of backbreaking labor.<br />The end of the Book is simply Communism as Orwell saw it in his time: a corrupt regime ignoring and robbing its people, while making friends and mixing with those it claimed were the enemy, to the point where it was impossible to tell them apart.<br />Orwell had first-hand experience dealing with the Stalinist brand of communism while he was fighting in Spain, and obviously realized that instead of cultivating a workers' paradise, Communism had spawned a culture of fear and lies.<br />This is a great story written in tragic fashion, all the more sad when you realize that the small farm is a metaphor for millions of people and an entire nation, under the thumb of a merciless and corrupt government.	2003-08-07
US	39132837	R2G6KSRYRI5S2N	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not bad, though pretty bland...	The last couple of Clancy books that I've read, I've gone into with some hesitation.  Having loved his earlier work, books like Rainbow Six have been disappointing, to say the least.  Red Rabbit, while a slight improvement, didn't leave me thirsting for more Clancy any time soon.<br />Where some of Clancy's books have been full of plot-twisting excitement, Red Rabbit was simply a straight-line trip from beginning to end.  While I do expect spy novels to be realistic, I would hope that the author would take a little license and make them interesting.  I'm sure that many successful intelligence operations are as boring as this one, but I don't really want to read about them.  The insertion of a plot into actual events was somewhat interesting, but even that was pretty slow and simple.  There were a few glimmers of hope, that Clancy still has &quot;it,&quot; and that he may yet write another book that's full of the great stuff he uses so sparingly anymore, but those moments in Red Rabbit are few.<br />This book was very philosophical for a Clancy novel, and the plot suffered as a result.  The heavy doses of Catholic morality and philosophising about the existence of God and morality in an Atheist state may have been somewhat important to the plot, but they were given top billing and delivered with all the subtlety of a punch between the eyes.<br />For Clancy, it might be time to retire Jack Ryan.  As much as I've enjoyed the signature character of Clancy's work, Ryan is becoming more and more an idealistic cutout, instead of the complex (for Clancy, anyways) character he used to be.<br />I can't call this book bad, but it won't be coming off my shelf again any time soon, if at all.  I certainly won't be first in line for Clancy's next book, though I'll probably read it.	2003-08-06
US	39132837	R3GCZSYATWPHCX	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautifully tragic story of love and war...	Hemingway's story of Robert Jordan, an American college instructor fighting for the Spanish republic, is a beautiful story of desperate love and the death of an ideal.  <br />Robert Jordan has been assigned the task of blowing up a bridge behind Fascist lines in support of a Republican offensive.  He is sent to a guerrilla camp in the mountains behind the lines, where he meets those who are to help him with this task. He also meets and falls in love with Maria, a young Spanish woman who was brutalized by the fascists, and rescued by the band in a previous raid.  <br />Hemingway details the nature of the war in the way that only he can, using his stark prose to depict the decay of the idealism that characterized the beginning of the Spanish Republic.  This is particularly evident in the character named Pablo, a once-fervent fighter for the Republic who has lost hope in the cause and just wants to be left alone in the hills. Each character has his own idea of the Republic and why they are fighting, which is as truthful a depiction of the Republican cause as could be hoped for.<br />There were three parts of this book which really stood out for me.  The first was Pilar's account of the execution of the fascists in her village.  Pablo's ruthlessness, along with the growing terror of the people who go from reluctant participants to bloodthirsty mob, is terrifying in its escalation and horrible finish. Second is the final stand of El Sordo, who accepts his fate, but draws a little pleasure and satisfaction in his efforts.  Third is the final battle in Chapter forty-three.  Hemingway doesn't overdramatize things, he realizes that things are dramatic enough, and the straight-forward presentation of the battle as things go well and then get worse carries much more impact as a result.  The stark, straight-forward writing makes these events come to life as tragic circumstances not only for the dead, but for those who survive as well.<br />I would suggest that any reader do a little research into the Spanish Civil War before reading this book, as a little knowledge of the circumstances and people  of the war (like Marty and La Pasionaria) will enrich the story immensely.<br />This book is very compelling reading, as Robert Jordan struggles with love and duty, while both fearing and accepting his dangerous assignment.  In the abstract, this book is about the death of the ideal in Spain, the corruption and dissent which led to the demise of the Republic.  Hemingway conveys these ideas in a way that only Hemingway can, weaving a fabric of sadness and beauty amid hopeless circumstances.	2003-07-28
US	39132837	R39QLXRJL0FK5V	0195014766	459752409	The Art of War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting and useful, to an extent	Without question, Sun Tzu's thirteen chapters on The Art of War are some the most definitive commentaries on waging armed conflict ever written, at least until Clausewitz came along, and even then you would have a hard time discounting the importance of Sun Tzu's thought.  This is such an influential peice of writing that many people have read it as a management manual or business guide.  This is the nature of many of the writings in this book; they are not only useful from a military standpoint, they are truly universal in their utility.<br />This translation is interesting, in that Griffith provides some discussion on the origin of the thirteen chapters and the era in which they were written.  Also included is a small chapter on the influence Sun Tzu had on Mao, and the extent to which Sun Tzu influenced Chinese military (and political) thought right up to the present day.<br />The one thing that bothered me was the abundance of footnotes, which, while informative, broke up the writings so much it was difficult to maintain a fluid sense of thought.  This was abviously written as an academic endeavor, and as such is annotized relentlessly.  The commentaries in the text were useful at some points, redundant at others.<br />All in all, this is a good book, whether you're looking for self-help or military history.	2003-07-18
US	39132837	R1AYARJW6CCSIL	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderful ending to an epic tale	This third installment in the Lord of the Rings Trilogy is a worthy successor to the previous two books.  Tolkien wraps up all the loose ends with a wonderful, almost poetic, style.<br />Saruman has been defeated, and now the armies of good must race to the city of Minas Tirith to stave off the assault of Sauron's forces.  Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam must continue their quest through Mordor to destroy the Ring.  Battles rage and wills are tested as the forces of evil bring seemingly overwhelming force to bear on the defenders of Middle-Earth.  It is in this fury that Tolkien allows his characters to become their true selves: majestic personalities of great strength and courage.  Even the small hobbits rise to great things.  Frodo's struggle with the Ring continues, while Sam first fights to save him, and then fights to keep him moving on his quest.  As the quest comes to an end, the reader gets to see most of the characters from the previous books one more time, and watch as the hobbits return to the Shire, discovering the effect the conflict has had on their home.<br />Tolkien truly wrote a great story in this book.  He not only has a great skill for description of situations, but also for human personality and emotion.  This is evident first at the battle for Minas Tirith, where varying personalities shape the conflict, and then with Frodo and Sam in Mordor, which makes for the most compelling reading in the book.  Sam's concern for his master and Frodo's struggle with his burden are detailed masterfully.<br />This book is a great ending to this wonderful trilogy.  It really is a quick read, and lacks some of the slower parts of the previous two books.  The whole trilogy is great, and this final installment makes the time spent reading the trilogy more than worth the effort.  This is just a fantastic ending to a great story of strength, courage, love and loyalty.	2003-06-27
US	39132837	R32NFF9L0T83JT	0060082216	970529812	Unknown Man #89	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Early Elmore is great stuff!	This is the kind of writing that made Elmore Leonard famous.  Shady characters hanging around Detroit, mingling with hardened criminals.  As always, Leonard's characters are interesting and unique, and his dialogue is fantastic.  He has a talent for describing characters and settings without over-describing them that fuels the imagination, making the reading that much more interesting.<br />Jack Ryan is a process server who has taken a strange (yet lucrative) job offer, looking for a man who is hard to find.  What he finds is a scary guy whose associations both attract and endager Ryan.  He meets a girl who he starts to like, a boss he starts to dislike, and an ex-con who he's just trying to get rid of.  The resulting action is a series of crosses and double-crosses that never stops entertaining the reader.<br />Though there were a couple of plot elements that fell into place a little too easily (disposing of one love interest and the final showdown between all the bad guys), I really enjoyed this book.  Just when you think that there's nowhere left for the characters to go, Leonard twists the plot a little, making for some very entertaining reading from the very beginning.  For fans of Leonard, or even those unfamiliar with Leonard's work, this is a great read.	2003-06-20
US	39132837	R1UPYLKZRY9ECN	0141001488	385802779	The Spanish Civil War	Books	3	206	215	N	N	A complex book on a complex conflict...	More political history than battlefield history, Anthony Beevor's recount of the Spanish Civil War is a complex look at the proxy war that took place in Spain just before the outbreak of the Second World War.  A large portion of this book is devoted to the politics inside Spain both before and during the conflict, and the struggles within both \\"sides,\\" as the political realities of the mid- to late thirties in Spain forced some incompatible ideologies together, eventually leading to the demise of the Republican government.<br />The best thing about this book is that Beevor finds a way to break down the political struggle along three axes of conflict.  While he often bounces back and forth from the battlefield to the political arenas while presenting mountains of complex information, he always finds a common thread and manages to pull all the facts presented back into the theme presented in a given chapter.<br />Beevor's sympathies seem to lie with the Anarchists, though it seems that this is more a result of the fact that the Communists and the Fascists had foreign support from governments which history shows were less than benevolent.  The Anarchist cause is typically portrayed in a more sypathetic light than the Communists and Fascists, whose aspirations were more totalitarian than the anarchists, who (at least as they are presented in this book) simply wanted the right to govern themselves.  To his credit, however, he does not spare any party in the description of the murderous brutality between all participants.  He takes extra time to explain the propaganda battle (a very important aspect of the conflict), from the atrocities committed against the Church to the efforts of both sides to win victories based on propaganda, rather than military, goals.<br />Some of the political conundrums of Spain in the '30s are also presented.  One of the most interesting is the plight of the Anarchists.  They had a massive party capable of wielding immense power, but since theyrejected the idea of elections, they were reduced to being bystanders in the political world.  The compromises they made once the war started, as a result of the aggressive nature of the Communists (backed by the Stalinist USSR), and the backlash against the Communists near the end of the conflict, are a couple of the major underlying themes of this book.  Beevor expalins it best when he says that \\"The Nationalists defended a common view of the past; the Republican coalition in contrast, had widely differing visions of the future.\\"<br />This is a very infomative book, and the reader will take a lot of understanding away from it.  I would, however recommend two things, the first of which is to read and bookark the list of political parties and organizations on pages 285 through 287, before reading the rest of the book.  The second is to take the time to write down the names of important individuals.  This will significantly ease the reader's efforts to remember the mass of information presented.  While this book is roughly 285 pages long, it is a very long 285 pages, as previous reviewers have noted, and is not an easy read.	2003-06-15
US	39132837	R36DJPUP4OF4GF	1572435275	242705245	The Little Red (Sox) Book: A Revisionist Red Sox History	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Funny stuff from the Spaceman...	I'm not a Red Sox fan, so I can't really identify with long-suffering Boston baseball fans, to whom this book is really directed.  I can, however, appreciate the history of baseball, good humor and the occasional satire, all of which Bill Lee provides in his tongue-in-cheek revision of the history of the Boston Red Sox.<br />From the Ho Chi Minh Trial to Ted Williams' saving of the free world to \\"Bucky freuging Dent\\": concert pianist,  this book is filled with wonderfully silly speculations of what might have been, had the episodes that have caused so much heartbreak for Boston baseball fans not occurred.  Lee takes aim at several of his most despised adversaries, including the Yankees and Don Zimmer (whom he referred to as a \\"Gerbil\\" during his career), and never lets up.  The fall of New York and the rise of Boston are directly linked to the fate of the Babe, as Yankee fans become the embittered and cynical of the two, and Boston becomes the Baseball capital of the world.<br />What would have happened if the Red Sox would not have traded Babe Ruth?  If Ted Williams hadn't lost 5 years to war?  If Jackie Robinson had been signed by the Bosox?  If Bucky Dent had become a concert pianist instead of a baseball player?  Probably not Lee's revised version of events, but that doesn't make the book any less enjoyable, it managed to keep a smile on my face throughout.<br />A good, funny, fanciful baseball story.	2003-05-19
US	39132837	R111B7E406DP3U	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Part two, in two parts	As the quest against Sauron continues, the Fellowship has split and gone their separate ways.  The first half of the book follows the majority of the Fellowship, first as they search for their captured comrades, then as they fight the forces of Saruman.  The second part chronicles the voyage of Frodo and Sam (and later Gollum), as they attempt to reach the realm of the enemy.<br />As the book progresses, the reader can really begin to see the development of each character.  The long, difficult journey undertaken by Frodo, Sam, and Gollum reveals much about each character: that Frodo is struggling with the burden of the ring, the hastiness of Sam, and the inner conflict and treachery that consumes Gollum.<br />I'm not a big fan of the fantasy genre in general, in large part due to the the massive volumes generated by authors chronicling the minute details of every quest.  It's tedious to read for all but die-hard fans of the genre.  This arises in the Two Towers, but Tolkien's masterful sense of setting and character manage to keep the reader's interest, in spite of the long lulls in the action.<br />This is a wonderful second installment, bridging the gap between the first stage of the quest and the final struggle.  The true magnitude of Frodo's burden becomes evident, as does the power agaist which all good must stand or be destroyed.	2003-05-19
US	39132837	R3DQ81U24JH55S	0449005615	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great read for anyone...	This is a great book.  The story of Seabiscuit is truly amazing, how a well-bred but awkward and underacheiving horse became one of the greatest that ever lived, and captured the imagination of a country wrapped in the depths of the Great Depression.  The story of the long journey from claimer to champion, along with the lives of the men who guided Seabiscuit along that road, make for some very compelling reading.<br />The writing in this book is exceptional.  There are virtually no clumsy sentences.  Hillenbrand's words flow smoothly, enhancing the picture that she paints and allowing the reader to engross himself (or herself) in the story.  Especially vivid are the descriptions of the races in which Seabiscuit participates, where the power and intensity of the horses and riders are conveyed in stunning detail.  Also interesting is the psychology of the race horses, from their desire to run to the way they interact on the track.  The accounts of Seabiscuit's behavior make for some of the best reading in the book, and really help to enlighten the reader on how race horses think.<br />Hillenbrand also provides an interesting glimpse into the world of the depression-era horse racing industry.  Tom Smith's cat-and-mouse games with the press are quite humorous, but one of the things that surprised me was horrendous lives that jockeys lived.  Injury and death was an accepted part of the job, and the struggle to make weight was performed with gruesome recklessness.  <br />\\"Seabiscuit\\" is one of the best sports books I have ever read.  The combination of a great story and wonderful writing make this book one to be treasured.	2003-04-28
US	39132837	R3BYUND49KZAD1	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pretty standard Elmore Leonard...	Elmore Leonard is the king of weird characters and strange plots.  This one centers around a high-dive artist and a Civil War reenactment.  <br />Aside from the unique setting, this book is your basic Elmore Leonard.  The good guys are shady, but likeable, and the bad guys are just plain bad.  Leonard's dialogue is always the best part of his writing, and that doesn't change here.<br />It took a while for things to get rolling in this book, and once they did, the end seemed to fall together a little too fast.  I was wondering what was going on and what the whole point of story was 200 pages into a 300-some page book.  There is, however, enough wrapped up in the plot and the strange setting to keep the reader interested, if for no other reason than to see how all this weirdness runs together.  Also, the final female character was lobbed in at the last possible moment in kind of an odd fashion.<br />Like most of Leonard's books, this isn't a literary masterpiece expounding on the meaning of life, but one can always rely on Leonard to be entertaining, and he certainly acheives that here.	2003-04-24
US	39132837	RK1YWP930ME9W	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beginning of the Quest...	As a rule, I tend to avoid books that fall into the \\"fantasy\\" categoy, but I decided to pick up The Hobbit & the Rings Trilogy, to see what all the hubbub was about.  Any set of books that has held up as long as the LOR must have some redeeming qualities, and I figured I should at least give them a chance.  So far (after the Hobbit and Fellowship), I'm glad I did.  What I found was an intricate tale of friendship, duty, and the inner strengths and failings of men, wrapped in an epic quest whose goal is no less than to save the world from evil.<br />*And no, I haven't seen the movies yet, so I went into the books blindly.<br />The writing is fantastic, every step taken is described in tremendous detail, as first the Hobbits leave their home and gain companions along the way.  I especially enjoyed the descriptions of the varying landscapes of Middle-Earth; from the mountains to the plains, Tolkien has a fantastic way of painting a picture.  The struggles of the group and their wisdom and frustration are recounted in wonderful detail, as their pursuers attempt to close in on them.<br />The plot-related minutae that fantasy fans love and most others hate is present in this book, and all but hardcore fantasy fans will find that the book bogs down a bit in the middle, where the reader is inundated with probably more detail than one really needs to enjoy the story.  This is especially true during the Council of Elrond, where I was upset with Tolkien for not just getting on with the quest.  The plot presented is wonderful in that the whole history of the ring and its quest are described in detail, but it gets a little slow at that point, and some may have to plow through that section.<br />The final chapters of the book are wonderful, as the quest truly begins with the departure from Rivendell into the wild world beyond.  The strengths and weaknesses of the individuals come to drive the plot to its ending and deliver a powerful message: that the seemingly weak can be the strongest among us when dire circumstances and great temptations arise, and the those who would be strong often hide great weaknesses.  This lesson is slowly learned by the fellowship, and ultimately leads it to its fate.<br />Finally, since I haven't read the next two books yet, I have to judge this book on its merits alone, and I must say it is a wonderful story, and it certainly leaves me craving the next installment.rongest among us when dire circumstances and great temptations arise, and the those who would be strong often hide great weaknesses.  This lesson is slowly learned by the fellowship, and ultimately leads it to its fate.<br />Finally, since I haven't read the next two books yet, I have to judge this book on its merits alone, and I must say it is a wonderful story, and it certainly leaves me craving the next installment.	2003-04-07
US	39132837	RFB80XDVORAYY	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding, Clancy's best!	This could happen.<br />These three words describe why I like Tom Clancy's work, at least up until the final chapters of 'Debt of Honor'.  Clancy has a way of creating these great events and making them believable.  So much so, that one may find himself (or herself) expecting an update on the evening news.  This is certainly the case with Red October.  Everything, from the technical descriptions of tactics and equipment to the plot, was thoroughly entertaining and came together to weave a tremendous tale of espionage.  <br />The story of an ordinary man (Ryan), shoved into harm's way and CIA field operations--simply because he knows more about Marko Ramius than anyone else--is great.  And Ramius's story--that of the disenchanted military commander--is also one worth reading.  Character development is not one of Clancy's strengths, but the characters in this book have some emotional depth and are very believable; the best Clancy has ever written (with the possible exception of John Clark in 'Without Remorse').<br />One other thing that people may appreciate is that you don't have to plow through 900 pages to get through this book, Clancy gets to the point right away and the action and intrigue never let up. It is thoroughly entertaining, and far shorter than some of Clancy's later work.  This is a great story, and should satisfy both casual readers and techno-geeks alike.	2003-03-03
US	39132837	RJXTC139MOLXK	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Ugh.  You have to be kidding me.	Clancy has officially hit rock bottom.  I couldn't believe how ridiculously one-sided this book was.  The good guys are perfect, and the bad guys have the emotional intelligence of a six-year-old.  I'm hoping that the American military doesn't have the same perception of our enemies as Clancy does.<br />What really bothers me is that even some of the most successful special forces operations in history--especially those which took place in such public settings as what is described in Rainbow Six--had a few things go wrong; hostages were killed and soldiers were injured.  Some even completely fell apart.  Clancy apparently either didn't do his homework on this or simply chose to disregard it.<br />I was really, REALLY disappointed in this book.  I am (or maybe was) a huge Clancy fan, and while the technical details were still there to satisfy a hard-core military techno-geek, the story was somewhat absurd, and the dialogue is bad, even for Clancy.	2003-03-03
US	39132837	R1F7PW8V7G33KH	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Better than Rainbow Six, so he gets one more chance	After reading Rainbow Six, I wasn't sure if I even wanted to bother with another Clancy book.  Considering how much I've enjoyed his past work, that's a large statement.<br />Personally, I preferred it when Jack Ryan was a nobody; just a cog in the workings of the intelligence arm of the US Government.  Things were a lot more exciting then.  By making Ryan the President, Clancy has entered into an area where it's a lot harder to write a believable story, since everything he now does has large ramifications on entire nations.<br />I am getting tired of Clancy's notion that Americans can do no wrong; that every man and woman in uniform is an expert, and the foreign folks are emotional idiots.  The only \\"villians\\" that Clancy ever endowed with any brains were the Soviets, and now that they're gone, there's nobody left who's really a worthy adversary.<br />The story isn't bad, and I enjoyed the book enough to give Clancy another chance, but he needs to get better.  I'm not asking for another Red October, just a nice, believable story.	2003-02-27
US	39132837	R37UQT3T71V1L9	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Plausible scenario, very well written	I really liked this book.  It's been a while since I read it, but it was very well thought-out and entirely believable.  From the events that spark the conflict to the actual troop movements, Clancy did his homework on this one.  Although it is a bit dated, it is still a great story; all in all, it's very entertaining.<br />There are some people who just don't get Clancy, and this book won't be any better for them than any other, but for fans of the genre, this is a fantastic book.	2003-02-26
US	39132837	R1F8W4G6MXHG48	0813108667	473330766	Bomber Pilot: A Memoir of World War II	Books	5	15	15	N	N	This is good stuff.	Ardery's account of his life as a B-24 pilot is excellent.  From all the training it took to simply get into the planes, to combat in the skies over the Mediterranean and Northern Europe, Ardery's account is an even-handed account of what a bomber pilot's life was like.<br />The chapter about Ploesti is especially fascinating.  James Dugan and Carrol Stewart used Ardery as a source for their book on the subject, and the details of Ardery's part in the raid offer some really interesting stuff.  Especially intruiging is the background and fate of Medal of Honor winner Lloyd Hughes, who was flying on Ardery's wing when when he perished.<br />This book is really good stuff; Steven Ambrose's &quot;Wild Blue&quot; pales in comparison.  Ardery doesn't place himself on a hero pedestal, he merely tells of his experiences in a very interesting and easy-to-digest style.	2003-02-18
US	39132837	RHJ9ZK0EUWRKP	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Incredibly gripping stuff...	The Battle of Stalingrad is certainly an interesting study.  Everything about it is warfare taken to an extreme, from the will of the leaders, to the weather, to the methods of \\"motivation,\\" make for gripping human drama.  Beevor's account, in my opinion, strikes an excellent balance between all of these extremes of human suffering and the actual tactics and movements of the battle. <br />I thought Beevor did a good job of recounting the suffering of the common soldier without allowing this book to turn into a series of sad stories.  The appalling conditions at Stalingrad are certainly one factor which makes the battle such a fascinating subject, but Beevor does not forget that there was a battle fought around Stalingrad with tanks and guns, and that is what ultimately defeated the Germans, not rats and lice.  The conditions are kept in context with the greater battle.  The reasons for the attrition of the German sixth army and its subsequent encirclement are given at both the tactical and strategic levels, from the viewpoint of both the common soldier and the general staff.<br />For better or worse, there isn't a lot of mention of the fact that the starving and freezing German army was the same one which had murdered and raped its way through the steppe, nor that the Soviet army would do much the same to the German people when they crossed into Germany.  This omission lends a little more human quality to the book, in that these factors aren't considered when the stories of suffering are recounted, and one finds him or herself pitying the combatants probably more than one would otherwise.<br />The battle for Stalingrad is one of the great stories of life-and-death struggles between nations, and Beevor does it tremendous justice, in my opinion, from the perspective of both the private and the general.	2003-02-18
US	39132837	R29ZQ9N7OQEXTF	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best book I've ever read.	Hands down, bar none, this book is incredible.  I can't do it the justice it deserves, but here's why I LOVE this book.<br />I'd never read Hemingway before, but after I got over his (famous, as I now know) writing style, I was captivated by the story that unfolded before my eyes.  Hemingway's stark prose truly lends an air of bleakness to the events surrounding the lives of Henry and Barkley.<br />From a historical standpoint, Hemingway's account of the retreat from Caporetto is fantastic in its description of the morale-impaired Italian army, where execution by lot-drawing was accepted practice.<br />The story is wonderfully engrossing, as the love affair between Henry and Barkley grows from casual to desperate amidst the terrible circumstances of the First World War.<br />Absolutely, positively, the best book I've ever read.	2003-02-18
US	39132837	R2COQLALX1BZYW	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dry, but informative...	I went into this book knowing next to nothing about WWI aside from the ten minutes they talk about it in grade school.  The assassination of Archduke Ferdinand, lots of dead people, and that's about it.  What I came away with was an appreciation for how utterly pointless this conflict was, and a real understanding of what went on in the headquarters of both sides, and what precipitated the horrors that earned WWI the name &quot;War to End All Wars.&quot;<br />What this book provides is a bird's-eye view of the conflict.  It begins with the political climate surrounding the initial flare-ups, and the plunge into all-out war.  The combat is described from the perspective of a General, where strategic movement is a focal point, while the horrors of war and casualty numbers are mentioned only in passing.   There is very little discussion of weapons and tactics, Keegan prefers to describe the attempts made by Generals to break the stalemate.  There is a final chapter which lends some emotion to the book, but for the most part, Keegan leaves the life of the private for other authors.<br />This book is not an easy read, and any reader will find him/herself &quot;plowing through&quot; sections that are pretty dry and full of unit names and roman numerals.  However, this is essential to to bigger picture, and from the standpoint of learning about the First World War, this was an excellent, informative first read.	2003-02-11
US	39132837	RTCI51IDF8P30	1559705159	922755710	The Hinge Factor: How Chance and Stupidity Have Changed History	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Interesting, but pretty light stuff	The subject of this book intrigued me, as there have been many events in history that historians attribute to the greatness of great men on the winning side, but are more often the result of morons on the losing side.<br />There were certainly some interesting and even entertaining stories, like the lack of nails at Waterloo, and the barrel of schnapps, but Durschmied too often attributes the events described to a single factor, when it is often a combination of decisions (many of which are sound, given the circumstances) and other factors.  Unfortunately, the author is bound by his format to only allow twenty or so pages to events about which volumes have been written.<br />A couple of times, Durschmied describes the factors which led to a series of events, and claims the &quot;Hinge Factor&quot; was something else entirely.  The &quot;Hinge Factor&quot; becomes the spark that ignites an already absurdly inflammatory situation.<br />This is a pretty light read, and offers a unique perspective, and when taken with a grain of salt, is good reading.  Pretty good stuff, but not a lot of substance.	2003-02-11
US	39132837	R28MUF368FPAMG	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Justice in a dangerous world...	When dealing with a sociopath, sometimes it's necessary to get down into the mud with him, and fight dirty.  Or is it?  Mark Bowden's account of Pablo Escobar's reign of terror and subsequent arrest, escape, and death is a very unbiased assessment, and leaves the morality question to be decided by the reader.<br />Killing Pablo was fantastic. While it doesn't have the intensity of Black Hawk Down (one really couldn't expect THAT, since the story isn't about a nonstop firefight), from a purely nuts-and-bolts perspective, the story of the manhunt for Pablo Escobar is an incredible and riveting story.<br />While some readers may have wanted more insight into the whos and whats of the larger world of the cocaine industry, Bowden (to his credit, in my opinion) mentions Escobar's competition only in passing. The focal point of the book is the good guys versus the bad guy, and Bowden doesn't muddle that with a lot of inconsequential details about the larger problems in Colombia, at least the ones that weren't directly attributable to Escobar.<br />Escobar's God complex is revealed in disturbing detail, from his favorite methods of execution to his self-image as the patron of the Colombian people.<br />Bowden is remarkably even-handed in his assessment of the \\"good guys,\\" giving credit where it is due, but at the same time, questioning their tactics and motivation, and crediting dumb luck when it was the true hero. He avoids lumping the local law enforcement-types into the \\"completely incompetent\\" pool that they so often wind up in at the hands of American journalists. Bowden recognizes the unique situation that the Colombians had to deal with, and gives them credit for working to hunt down Escobar in spite of these circumstances.<br />All in all, a very informative, entertaining read.	2003-02-10
US	39132837	RRBWNWIIIF347	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Incredible, intense, a fantastic read!!!	I avoided reading this book for a while, because I thought it would be a depressing account of one of America's largest military and political failures since Vietnam.  <br />I was wrong.<br />This book was incredible from page one.  Bowden's prose is riveting, even when describing the political conditions which precipitated the events in Mogadishu.  I could not put it down; the drama that unfolded on those pages was incredible, from the first signs that things were going badly, to the final run to the soccer stadium and salvation.  The chaos that took place--in spite of high-tech command and control--was conveyed with riveting detail.<br />What I got from this book was a sense of pride in the men who were in the air and on the ground and a real understanding of why soldiers despise politicians.  I'd seen several documentaries about the battle of Mogadishu, and knew what to expect through most of the book, but it never failed to keep my attention.  <br />Amazing.	2003-02-10
US	39132837	R3N1XG18SDL1P1	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good, but there's better	Ambrose's story of George McGovern and his experiences in Italy as a B-24 is a good account of what it was like to become a bomber pilot in World War II. However, the book is basically a collection of anecdotes and does not do a good job of describing day to day life of Bomber crews in Italy.<br />In addition, Ambrose falls into the rah-rah attitude that seems to plague most of his books. While they are all quality works, Ambrose attempts to place the American man--the \\"Sons of Democracy,\\" as he likes to call them--as the pinnacle of the species. The idea that the Germans weren't as brave or capable of soldiers is inferred at times. It also takes something away from the randomness of death that is pervasive in war. <br />For a more detailed and in-depth look at the life of a B-24 pilot, try \\"Bomber Pilot\\" by Philip Ardery. Ardery was stationed in England--not Italy--most of the war, but spent some time in North Africa. Pilot training is discussed in much greater detail, as is daily life for the pilots and crews. Ardery also was involved in the August 1, 1943 raid on Ploesti, and dedicates a chapter to that experience.	2002-04-02
