US	39141116	R1NBBDOPR0X42F	0818403144	939073652	Getting Even: The Complete Book of Dirty Tricks	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Luridly fascinating, but too evil to actually use	Important: most of this stuff can get you arrested. <br /> <br />If you see this book in the humor section of your bookstore, that's because it's about the only place in the bookstore where it will fit. This is, pure and simple, an outlaw book for the truly pissed-off. A left-wing anarcho-libertarian bent informs the book (inspired by Edward Abbey's Monkey Wrench Gang), but the book goes to some lengths to point out that what it suggests is not tied down to any one political viewpoint.  <br /> <br />So you want revenge? This will certainly give you the means. Stinkbombs, scams, monkeywrench tactics, it's all in here. Some of it is outdated -- this book dates to 1982 -- and a lot of it can get you in a great deal of trouble. But if sabotage is what the situation calls for, this book is a good guide to it. There is some serious potential damage claimed by some of the pranks -- derailed political careers, ruined reputations, money funneled out of pockets. There is some risk to life and limb as well -- there are some creative uses mentioned for M-80s, for example, some of which involve shrapnel.  <br /> <br />The author picked an interesting pen name -- it appears Abbey gave his character a name that means \\"bandit\\" (hajduk -> Hayduke) in some eastern European languages -- and the tactics within this book are thoroughly scorched-earth and a bit disturbing. It is certainly an interesting book, but I'm not sure I can recommend it -- it mostly appeals to the morbidly curious, the extremely ticked-off, and the borderline psychotic. The first category might want to look at it in a library, and the second two should be kept away from it at all costs.	2005-05-27
US	39141116	R1U9UGUHWLT479	0688154573	711004836	The Glorious Foods of Greece: Traditional Recipes from the Islands, Cities, and Villages	Books	4	38	41	N	N	Doesn't stand on its own, but an excellent read nevertheless	The down side of this book is that it essentially functions as a follow-on to Kochilas' earlier book, the Food and Wine of Greece. If you want a basic introduction to Greek cuisine, pass this one by -- it will tell you a great deal about Greek cuisine, but the basics are covered better in her earlier book.  <br /> <br />Kochilas writes with a more mature and experienced voice than in her first book -- she's been living in Greece for much of the time since the first one was published, so she's had time to develop more experience. Thus, in the writing of this book, she's had a chance to bring out much more of the history of Greece and how its food got to be the way it is. The book is part cookbook, part travelogue, and as long as you already have a more basic book on Greek cuisine it's an excellent read. It's an expensive book, though for the monumental nature of the subject matter that's understandable. <br /> <br />As I said, though, it's incomplete. A lot of the basic things that fans of the Greek-American diner are used to are not here; look to her first book for the basic recipes for moussaka, spanakopitta, and other dishes famous here, because if you look in this one you will find regional varieties that may be quite good but aren't exactly what you're looking for. What you will find is stunning and varied recipes from different areas that are as different in their own ways as the cuisines of Italy or China.  <br /> <br />If you keep all of the above in mind, this book is a worthwhile investment in conjunction with its predecessor. Highly recommended, with appropriate caveats.	2004-10-19
US	39141116	R6AWLN1V41URD	0894807536	398665974	Please to the Table: The Russian Cookbook	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A great book from the end of a peculiar period in history	This is not a Russian cookbook, first of all. It is, I believe, one of the very few Soviet cookbooks ever written in the English language, and it's a gem. <br /> <br />It dates to the late 80s, the era of Glasnost and Perestroika, and while it presents the highlights of Russian cuisine, it also shows the resourcefulness of day-to-day life in the dying days of the Soviet Union, with dishes like Moscow Cod (with mayo, cheese and onions) and kotleti (Russian hamburgers) that could be made into haute cuisine easily but would lose something in the translation from simple working-class food.  <br /> <br />It also shows the culinary heritage of the former Soviet Union -- Middle Eastern and Persian influences from the Caucasus and Central Asia, as well as the down-home Central/Eastern European food of Ukraine and Belarus and what was apparently a much loved variant of rye bread from Riga, Latvia. Beef Stroganoff and Borscht are presented in the most glorious forms possible, so lavish that they might not even be recognizeable in the poverty of modern Russia; conversely, the old haute cuisine fish pie kulebiaka is brought down to earth in a form that tries to split the difference between modern bastardizations and tsar-era glory.  <br /> <br />Like any good ethnic cookbook it also presents slices of life from those days -- from a cramped apartment in downtown St. Petersburg (or should I be calling it Leningrad?) or Moscow to the open land of Soviet Central Asia to the party-loving Georgians. (Armenia is somewhat short-shrifted, but it is represented.) The stars of the show are rib-sticking Ukrainian Borscht and the many-splendored forms of Pilaf, often made in the central Asian republics with aromatic basmati rice, with its own rituals surrounding it. Von Bremzen's particular experience as a Soviet emigre to the United States, as well as a native Russian in a country of widely varied ethnicities, plays into the richness of the book, allowing her to describe the experience ofSoviet cuisine as both insider and outsider.  <br /> <br />If you want to know about Russian food, and want to appreciate life as it was in the last days of the Soviet Union and the cultural heritage that Communism squandered, check out this book.	2004-10-19
US	39141116	R1VR0UJR31KLFS	0376022027	614276137	Sunset Good Cook's Handbook (A Ready Reference & Time-Saver)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An out-of-print gem for the serious cook	This book has been a necessary part of my cooking library for years. It would seem pointless to recommend an out-of-print book, but the fact is that if you find a copy in good shape, you'll quickly find it indispensable. Mine was missing for a number of years, and despite my best efforts I never found anything that was a reasonable replacement for it. (The only reason I'm giving it four stars instead of five is the difficulty of finding a copy now that it's been out of print for many years.)<br />So what is it? It is to the home cook what the gamemaster's screen is to a role playing GM, or an O'Reilly pocket reference is to a computer geek. It is most of what you need in as concise a form as humanly possible -- tables of information on cooking, organized by ingredient and technique, wrapped up in a convenient book a quarter inch thick. Of course it's a bit outdated; there's a lot of information on microwaving that is really only useful for vegetables, and some coverage of things that have slipped into the general kitchen over the last 20 years like Asian pasta would be nice. It lacks recipes for sauces and such, but I don't think that's a big deal since actual recipes are somewhat outside the scope of the book.<br />So my take? Until Sunset either reissues this in an updated form or someone else comes up with a similar book, track down a copy of this book any way you can and keep it in as good a condition as possible when using it on a daily basis. You'll be very glad to have it.	2004-07-08
US	39141116	R1EBFXGCSG7MT7	0486203948	679320789	Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science (Popular Science)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The classic of psychoceramics	In the early fifties, an author named Martin Gardner put pen to paper to make a survey of the little lunacies of science that dotted his world. Many are no longer around today, but many -- L. Ron Hubbard's Dianetics, Wilhelm Reich's orgone theories, homeopathy -- are still around, going strong long after Gardner had predicted their demise. <br />This book is one of the first of a long list of skeptical books that review the crackpots, frauds, and self-deluded \\"hermit scientists\\" of the world, and was a seminal work in the creation of the modern Skeptic movement, of which Gardner (now well into his 80s) is a still-vital part. Even despite its age, this book is essential reading for its first chapter and its discussion of the hermit scientist, the individual who does all his work in a vacuum with little contact with or understanding of the mainstream scientific world. <br />The individual chapters are quite fascinating as well -- the singlemindedness of many of these believers is put in context, along with the greed of those who don't believe what they're selling. Common mention is made of Charles Fort, who entertained skepticism towards all things scientific; Gardner's stated ambivalence about this man notwithstanding (Fort's rejection of scientific thinking doesn't wear well under scrutiny), Fort's constant presence in the book provides an interesting reminder of what legitimate science must strive to avoid.<br />So... dated, yes, but still essential reading. The only truly sad part is that Gardner's predictions of a more scientific future essentialy came unraveled in the last thirty or so years of the 20th century, with the rise of the Human Potential movement in the 1970s and the resurgence of Christian fundamentalism in the late 80s and 90s.	2004-04-10
US	39141116	R1MPEN5M9ELD3L	0877849226	402045215	The Best Things in Life	Books	2	20	56	N	N	A weak apologia for the author's personal tastes	Set aside the moment the presumption of a Christian author taking the voice of Socrates. (It seems clever to a Christian, but having been deeply religious and left it behind, it becomes a case of putting words in someone else's mouth, a rhetorical art that passed out of favor more than a millennium ago.) This book will not convince anyone not already predisposed to believing its message, nor is it really meant to.<br />This book is a work of apologetic writing, not for Christianity per se, but one of the largely conservative worldviews that go along with it. The book is not without virtues, as it teaches its college-aged protagonists to think about the world around them, and Kreeft is an excellent writer overall, but there is an insidious disapproval of modern life that is to be taken for granted rather than questioned. It is assumed that rock music is as cacophonous as Kreeft's Socrates hears it, and compassion is dismissed as a virtue where it conflicts with principle.<br />Returning to my comment at the beginning of this review: an author takes a risk assuming the voice of a real person. It can be done successfully, and was a well-respected literary technique during the classical period. Much of the Bible's New Testament was written that way, as later authors sought to place themselves in the same voice and theological groove as Paul the Apostle. But it's not a widely accepted technique today, as it is generally used not to extend the body of work of the assumed personality but to seek legitimacy for the new writer's agenda. (As an aside, I'm not too sure Plato wasn't guilty of the same thing, especially in the Republic; certainly the thought control aspects of Plato's republic, with its restrictions on music and the desire for a sharply defined meritocracy, have much the same resonance as this book.) For that reason, I think this book fails to anyone who, as I said, is not already predisposed to believing its message. As with many more overtly Christian books inthe same genre (including others written by the same author), it's preaching to the choir.	2004-04-08
US	39141116	R1HEDLWWUDJVRC	093618471X	66849105	Inside America's Test Kitchen: All-New Recipes, Quick Tips, Equipment Ratings, Food Tastings, Science Experiments from the Hit Public Television Show	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Keeping it rolling -- ATK pulls out another stellar volume	The scrappy, fun America's Test Kitchen books, companions to the top-rated TV series of the same name, tend to compare to the more staid Best Recipe series the way classes at the local adult education center compare to college courses -- not necessarily as deep or down to earth, but a lot more varied and just as informative. This, the third Cooks Illustrated book devoted solely to the TV series, carries on the fun of last year's party-and-comfort-food oriented book and the original ATK Cookbook with an emphasis on things that might fall into the category of diner and cafe food. <br />Organized by episode like its predecessors, Inside America's Test Kitchen goes down home with pan-roasted chicken and a quickie ragu bolognese, revisits Chinatown with beef and broccoli (a followup to last year's Kung Pao shrimp), and has fun with ethnic home cooking like cassoulet (trimmed down for weeknight use) and pollo fra diavolo. Trips to your local luncheonette include blueberry pancakes, Denver (i.e western) omelettes, the German Apple Pancake (i.e. the Baby Apple to New Englanders), corn muffins, and lemon cheesecake; even the espresso bar makes an appearance with chocolate chip cookies (including reviews of prepared cookie doughs) and a full frontal assault on the often-sawdusty oatmeal scone (flour choice is critical). <br />In my review of last year's book, Here in America's Test Kitchen, I pointed out that it was a keg party; if that's so, this is the hangover cure for the next morning. It's perhaps a bit difficult to top the fun factor of a cookbook that starts you off with the best buffalo wings ever, but with yet another cool factor that's off the charts, the ATK crew have at least equaled it.	2004-03-10
US	39141116	R3RNEPI65OO70G	B00005R08F	494718467	Cracking DES: Secrets of Encryption Research, Wiretap Politics & Chip Design	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Useful to both cryppies and hardware geeks	In 1997, the Electronic Frontier Foundation announced an experiment. On a budget of $200,000, they blew the roof off of something that had long been suspected: the long-time United States Data Encryption Standard was not secure. <br />This is something that had been suspected for some time. The original Lucifer encrypt that it had been based on had been designed by IBM with a 64-bit keyspace (quite large for the late 70s), but had been reduced to 56 bits, reducing the number of possible keys by two orders of magnitude. It was widely suspected that this was due to the NSA's desire that there not be a standard in the public domain that they couldn't crack; indeed, DES was slowly obsoleted over the years by ciphers like RSA and PGP. In 1997, it was announced that the EFF had created, using an array of custom chips, a relatively inexpensive system that was capable of a brute-force attack on DES, and came to the conclusion that such systems were probably already in the posession of not only the NSA (the largest purchaser of computing power in the world) but also numerous corporate and governmental entities that could afford to pay substantially less than the EFF paid for a technology that was likely not only available on the QT but quite mature.<br />This book comes with everything needed to build a DES cracker -- operational notes, history, and even the VHDL code needed to build the custom chips and C code to control the chip array. This makes it of interest not only to cryptography researchers (who probably consider this book old news after seven years) but to those learning about hardware and embedded systems development; the extensive listings make for good study material. <br />It's a worthwhile book to buy for anyone interested in privacy and cryptography concerns, though for the layperson Simon Singh's Code Book is probably a more general introduction to the issues involved.	2004-03-10
US	39141116	ROL9DL75HYU9S	048627263X	467344666	Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	3	2	9	N	N	A valuable read culturally, but a literary mediocrity	Sometimes you look at a book and shake your head. From what I've heard, they did that when this book came out in the late 19th century. <br />This book isn't science fiction in the classical sense; compared to A. K. Dewdney's Planiverse, the science in it is actually quite bad. It's more valuable as a cultural benchmark describing the class strictures of Victorian Britain in an unusual setting than anything else. Its overriding message of being open to different thinking, while admirable, is lost in the portrayal of a society whose strictures are not merely cultural but biological, rendering the point of the book somewhat vague at best.<br />It's interesting, yes. For the price of a Dover Thrift Classic edition, it's worth getting. But it's heavy-handed and lacking in any real sense of wonder such as you'd expect from a Jules Verne or Arthur Conan Doyle.	2004-02-19
US	39141116	R1UGZ54C1UY9IV	0517506688	62969735	VIENNESE COOKING	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Your mileage may vary	This is an absolutely horrendous ethnic cookbook. There is no context given to the recipes; it's just a laundry list of about a thousand recipes, put together by category with little background or context. As an outsider's introduction to the food of the Danube Valley and the former Hapsburg empire, it sucks.<br />So why give it four stars? It's all about expectations. This is actually not a bad book, as long as you take it as a reference cookbook for an Austrian housewife or chef. The recipes are authentic -- the original Sachertorte, for example, several pages of goulash recipes, and lots of interesting dishes that you might not associate with a Viennese kitchen (Irish Stew). By and large you're getting a look not at the traditional ethnic cookbook (part travelogue, part history lesson) but a look inside the kitchens of the people who eat the food. It's essentially something in the Joy of Cooking tradition.<br />I question its appropriateness for a modern American audience; for the most part, to get full enjoyment out of it you have to know something about the culture it came from. But that doesn't make it a bad book; if you need an Austrian recipe, it's in there. This series also tends to be reasonably priced, and it's been around a long time. There is probably better out there, but if you want to see what another culture sees as a cook's bible, this is one book to check out.	2004-01-10
US	39141116	R35Q4T44UDPHE7	1557094624	693939305	The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy	Books	4	33	34	N	N	The Joy of Cooking of its day	This book is a must-have for collectors of antiquarian cookbooks, even if it is a facsimile of a posthumous edition published in America. Makes me wish I had the appropriate kitchen.<br />To appreciate what Hannah Glasse's work did for cooking, it's necessary to understand what place it had in the market of the 18th century -- it was the book for English-speaking cooks, even in Revolutionary times as popular in the Colonies as it was back home in England. It's a bit more in scope than a typical modern cookbook as well, including things like beer/wine/mead recipes and preserves that are usually in separate books today, and even an occasional home remedy. The recipes cover much classic British Isles cooking, including Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding, meat pies, Scotch Broth, and a good number of seafood recipes.<br />The recipes in question probably don't lend themselves much to modern kitchens, unless you've got a fireplace with pothooks and a beehive oven in the chimney. But it's still enough to make you imagine, and to realize that while the techniques have changed, food hasn't changed much in two hundred years and change. The recipes are done in a conversational style that seems strange in a cookbook but should feel familiar to anyone who's learned a recipe at someone's elbow. Don't expect precise measurements everywhere either; you're expected to be able to figure such things out on your own. (One bit of advice: unlike modern recipes, where you can pick out the ingredients and work as you read, it behooves the reader to study the recipe before hand and take notes if necessary.)<br />As I said, it's a facsimile of a later edition from 1804 or so, and includes updates that aren't distinguished from Glasse's original text (thus my one-star deduction, which is a highly subjective decision). That said, it's likely a faithful rendition of how early America ate, and an invaluable reference to anyone who wishes to learn how it was done back in the day.	2003-12-06
US	39141116	R5W3NSKYIFJ6M	0936184671	966482430	Restaurant Favorites at Home (The Best Recipe)	Books	4	92	104	N	N	From anyone else this would be a 5-star book, but...	It really hurts giving a weak rating to a Cooks Illustrated book. The America's Test Kitchen crew is one of the most overachieving organizations in the culinary world, turning out magazine, cookbooks, and a TV show at a furious pace, and all the while serving as the oracle of record for all things culinary. By itself, this is an excellent book, with excellent interpretations of normally-inaccessible restaurant dishes for the home cook. But it seems to lie outside what Cooks Illustrated does best; their usual methodical approach is muted here, though not nonexistent.    The selection of recipes is a good one -- lots of New American, kicked-up ethnic (including Anthony Bourdain's Cassoulet from Les Halles), innovative twists like \\"Green Eggs and Ham\\" (Seuss-inspired -- eggs in an herb sauce), and some flat-out four-star stuff that nobody would ever think to do in a home kitchen. The usual sidebars with product reviews and food tastings are there, as well (though seemingly in smaller-than-usual quantity), and there's even a short section on restaurant presentation. But... there's something missing.    On the one hand, the ATK crew could have gone even deeper, exploring the basics of restaurant cuisine and how to adapt its techniques to the home kitchen. Complex, yes, but a lot of fun. On the other hand, they could have pulled out a straight Todd Wilbur impression, then going one better and talking with the chefs about the origins of the dishes and the restaurants they come from. But Cooks Illustrated sent this one straight down the middle, creating something that doesn't quite fit either genre of cookbook. It doesn't, after all, feel like a Cooks Illustrated book with its interlocking technical commentary, nor does it satisfy as French Laundry-style food porn.     This doesn't mean I don't recommend it -- if you're bored with the usual, this book still does a good job despite its shortcomings, and the recipes sound truly delicious. But it's a diversion from the usual,and an awkwardly handled one at that. Know what you're getting into beforehand and you won't be disappointed.    EDIT 2010: While this book is definitely outside the normal ATK mission statement and it isn't a regular thing in my cookbook reading, I've come to appreciate it on its own merits years later as a fun diversion, and it's a shame that they've let it go out of print. Given some of the lightweight stuff they've come out with since running out the string on the Best Recipe series, this is definitely far better than I gave it credit for originally. Upgrade to four stars.	2003-11-18
US	39141116	R41KMVX0SPQIT	0805055703	544801230	The "Go Ask Alice" Book of Answers: A Guide to Good Physical, Sexual, and Emotional Health	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Kids, sex, life -- they all gotta come together somehow	At [...] there is one of the best sources for advice on sex, relationships, and health for people ages 14 and up. This book is the print version.<br />It has nothing to do with the adolescent potboiler written by Beatrice Sparks; its information on drugs and sex is technical, explicit, and meant to give answers, not scare people. The gamut of advice given runs from flirting to penis size to the effects of various drugs on the body to urinary tract infections, and it's delivered with humor and understanding, without the judgementalism that seems to be the case in many more traditional books. <br />While I wouldn't recommend it for anyone who hasn't hit their 13th birthday yet, this book is an antidote for prudishness and the information vacuum far too many young people live in, and in a world where basic information on sex and life can often be hard to find or heavily polluted by unnecessary moralism, this book can help ease fears and educate the uneducated in a way that scare stories and sermons can't.	2003-11-16
US	39141116	RWD01V44PNCYP	0689713916	499439286	Call It Courage	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One grownup who liked it...	I read this one when I was a kid, probably around fourth or fifth grade, and I loved it. <br />This is really an incredible story, predating Castaway and Life of Pi by sixty-some years, and still remaining a solid story for today's readers. Mafatu is a boy of about twelve living on the Polynesian island of Hikueru, who has lost his mother to the sea and is deathly afraid of it. One day, to conquer his fear, he sets out himself and winds up a castaway on a volcanic island. <br />The thing that fascinated me as a child reading this was Mafatu's ingenuity -- the construction of the outrigger canoe, the making of his clothing and food, teaching himself to hunt and build and survive. While I wouldn't have wanted to be so far from home, in some ways I wanted to be him, experiencing that world half a planet away. TV shows like Survivor have nothing on this. <br />The ambiguous ending (I prefer to think it's a happy one, but that is by no means clear) is a satisfying, if bittersweet, wrapup to one of the greatest, most intense, most incredible adventure stories that any child could ever enjoy. This is highly recommended, both to children who want something a little different to read and to adults who want to remember what it was like when that treefort in the backyard was a gateway to an entirely different world.	2003-11-09
US	39141116	R38AHAG4VSYVET	020103669X	875539039	Software Tools	Books	5	11	11	N	N	It's what's under the hood	The tools you will find in this book are ancient. They're written in a cockeyed hybrid of C and Fortran, and they're almost hilariously user-hostile by modern definitions. If this intimidates you, look at it this way -- you're looking under the hood of modern applications. Much modern word processing, page layout, and language implementation can be built by putting a nice, shiny coating on what you find in this book.<br />Kernighan and Plauger set out in this book to document what they used in their labs at the time it was written, and show how to build them. Ratfor was chosen because C was not as widespread then as it is now, and for those who didn't have it, a translator to standard Fortran '77 was one of the major parts of the book. A simplified version of the nroff text formatter and a version of ed are also included for text file processing (then as now one of the major uses for computers), the result being both a toolkit and a practical education in the ins and outs of applications development.<br />The environment given is not Unix-based inherently, but this book is a natural companion to Kernighan and Rob Pike's The Unix Programming Environment and John Lions' Commentary on Unix 6th Edition. It should be required reading for anyone who wants to do software development.	2003-11-03
US	39141116	RA3C94TKVAPWU	0735611319	291533517	Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Want to know exactly what a computer does?	It's not often I willingly give money to Microsoft, but I bought this book in hardcover. I don't care if Petzold is a hardcore Windows guy or not; this book is as deserving of immortality as the Lions book or &quot;Godel, Escher, Bach&quot;. <br />Why? Because it lays it all out. Though it goes a bit light on the actual electronics, preferring to focus on the telegraph relay as its main way of understanding what's going on, this book takes the reader from square one -- sending messages to a friend with a flashlight -- to the structure of a modern microprocessor. It's an incredibly detailed yet easily accessible look at the internals of a computer system.<br />Flaws? A couple -- no index, and as I said it gives short shrift to what may be the single biggest invention of the 20th century, the transistor. But by and large Petzold has written the ultimate book to explain the mysteries of the computer to the layperson. This book is a must-buy.	2003-11-03
US	39141116	R2X9A03Q9WZGGY	013937681X	509213781	The Unix Programming Environment (Prentice-Hall Software Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	If you use Unix, you want this book. End of subject.	Dated, yes. But that's the only weakness of this excellent book, which covers the philosophy and structure of userland in Unix, and it's not an important one -- nroff is still necessary for man pages, and life on the command line is something anyone dealing with a Unix box should get used to, whether the user is using a shell account on their local freenet or a cutting edge Athlon64 Linux PC or PowerMac G5. (Or even SCO, if you must.)<br />The tools covered are timeless ones -- make, lex, yacc, and others that are still important for software development some twenty-five to thirty years after they were first written. There's no networking, no Perl, and the shell language is ancient, but what's in there still works, with only minor changes to accomodate ANSI C (if you're using GCC, even that can be dispensed with using a compiler flag). The book also serves as an education in programming language design, working out a full programmable calculator system called hoc, and an introduction to the concept of toolsmithing. <br />This book and Kernighan's book Software Tools (coauthored with P.J. Plauger) provide a great education in how to build a computer system; there's a very good reason both books are still in print after many, many years when most computer books turn over editions every year or two. Whatever your Unix is -- Mac, Linux, Solaris, BSD, whatever -- take this book with you when you start hacking around on the command line. It's not everything you'll ever need to know, but it's one of the best to get you started.	2003-11-03
US	39141116	R2215DZKJQGKIU	1402201397	213992941	The Lexicon of Intentionally Ambiguous Recommendations (L.I.A.R.)	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Funny, but the earlier editions were better	First off, this is a rather quaint book that seems more to apply to typewriters than computers. This isn't necessarily a bad thing -- it doesn't kill the humor potential at all -- but it does kind of weaken the force of the joke. In particular, creating space oddities (read the book) simply isn't doable without built-in kerning capability on the word processor, a concept only someone educated in page layout even understands.<br />That said, this is one of the funniest looks at one of the difficulties involved in the modern world of human resources: how do you write a recommendation that will fail to sell the candidate, without the candidate figuring out that you think they suck? &quot;Typos&quot; like &quot;There wasn't much, which he couldn't do&quot; (note comma), weasel words like &quot;He had a flair for writing&quot; (it was a red one), and hints on telephone recommendations (the voice gap, used to split a complementary word into an uncomplementary phrase) make this, if not exactly an invaluable resource, an excellent manual of things you wish you could do to someone you wouldn't recommend as raw material for the Soylent Green plant. This edition also adds weasel advice for the prospective new hire, with hints on how to make your resume look less incriminating.<br />The problem is that it's not the book it could be. The current edition is still stuck in the typewriter age with nary a multipart form in sight, thus limiting any utility it might have. It's also censored in some places, particularly the hints on what to write for someone with, er, morality issues. It's still an incredibly funny book, highly recommended to anyone who's ever had to weasel their way out of an awkward on-the-job situation, HR-related or not.	2003-10-28
US	39141116	R33JMOONTBW0	0877796270	226856075	The Slang of Sin (Lighter Side of Language)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dirty book for dirty minds. You got a problem with that?	Ah, sin. The lure of the forbidden, the rush of doing something your mommy told you not to do... \\"The worst thing about Sunday morning is finding out what you did Saturday night.\\"<br />The only problem with this book is that to do justice to a subject like this you'd need something much bigger.<br />Broken down by the Seven Deadlies, profusely illustrated by Istvan Banyai's (to put it charitably) weird art, this book tells you way more than you really need to know about the slang of various underworlds -- criminal, sexual, monetary, and otherwise. From the brain-dead psychedelic drug slang of the 60s to the leaden patter of astrology to the loopy rhyming slang of poker players who've played one too many rounds of Texas Hold'em that evening, from street gangs to biker gangs, from the fictional street toughs of the books of Damon Runyon to the real-life craps pits of old Alabama and modern Las Vegas, it's hard to say this book has them all, but it's got a damn fine sampling. Even prison slang, AA, and the Salvation Army are here. <br />The book talks about historical slang too, going into origins of current slang and the cant of past subcultures. It's not a dry lexicon of slang either; slang is intimately bound up in its context, and the author tries to give the reader a feel for that world: the God's Army mentality of the \\"Sally\\", the high-school exuberance of one specific Canadian cribbage club, the startling matter-of-factness of the porn industry contrasted sharply with the opaqueness of its jargon. Sidebars abound, and the type is a bit narrow, combining with Banyai's cartoons to make a somewhat odd reading experience, but it's still an interesting enough book to grab your attention.<br />We live in a culture that is slowly becoming more open, and sorting out one's comfort zone has become an everyone-for-themselves proposition. This book will at least shine some light into those darker areas, and give you a giggle or eight in the process.	2003-09-08
US	39141116	RMRURCJ2NEERV	0563488662	522176831	Recipes for the Nation's Favourite Food: Britain's Top 100 Dishes	Books	4	22	22	N	N	An American disabuses himself of some culinary prejudice	I was sitting in a bar one night reading a copy of Jane Garmey's Great British Cooking (another very good book) when a woman of obvious British extraction came up to me and asked, \\"Is there really any Great British Cooking?\\" An interesting question, I thought... Ms. Garmey actually did a pretty good job of making it clear that there was. This book goes much further, though, and should I think be required reading for anyone who wants to know what British food is really all about. (Note: I've not been to the UK, though I'd like to. But I figure the BBC's poll results are about as close as I can get for the time being.)<br />First off, it's an excellent deal -- the US price of $$$$ is only a dollar or so more than the UKP12.99 cover price. It's a fairly typical British television cookbook, impeccably laid out with near-pornographic food shots and a mouthwatering cover picture of the iconic British quickie dinner, fish and chips, newspaper and all. It's a slim book, with just over a hundred recipes divided into ten categories, including Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner, Convenience, Outdoor, Party, Comfort, Tea, Festive, and even Food of Love (chocolate gets heavy play here). The book revels in its demographic data, showing differences between male and female tastes as well as regional flavors.<BR> <BR> Surprises abound. The convenience food chapter is utterly dominated by Indian and Chinese dishes, as might be expected, but Fish and Chips is the #1. American favorites like doughnuts (said to be a teatime favorite in Wales), brownies, and chili (percieved as a Mexican dish) appear all over the book as well. Scones and clotted cream are tops in the tea category, but some old standbys like steak and kidney pie don't even rate in the top ten of the dinner category. The surprise favorite dinner: Spaghetti Bolognese, an oddity that perhaps reflects the more cosmopolitan tastes of a wired voter base. <BR> <BR>The recipes are by and large hip updates to tradition; the scones have a twist of lemon zest, while the roast beef and Yorkshire pudding includes a red wine gravy (a favorite in my house for a few years) and mustard-and-thyme Yorkies. A hamburger recipe transforms the humble burger into lavash-wrapped kofta patties. Bangers and mash gets a hard cider and leek gravy. (A special word must be set aside for the rather uncategorizable (and probably indigestible) \\"Sausage, Bean, and Egg Bake with Oven-Baked Chips\\", a peculiar perversion of the classic English breakfast presented primarily as a hangover cure. Your guess is as good as mine as to exactly what that word is.)<BR> <BR>This is a book that reveals a culture that may have perhaps gone a bit over the edge with food, but has definitely come to terms with and thoroughly overcome its reputation as a culinary wasteland. To read this book is to see a Great Britain that has learned how to eat, and how to appreciate the blessings of a multicultural heritage at the table (if, perhaps, not in other ways just yet). It's not perfect -- food writer Nigel Slater, author of the foreword, expresses skepticism at some of the outcomes of the poll, which I believe can be explained by the Internet-centered nature of the poll. However, though it's a tough book to find in the US, but it's not an expensive one, and very much worth the trouble to order.	2003-08-28
US	39141116	RY56CGSF21O11	0060199067	396649281	Evolution: The Triumph of an Idea	Books	5	6	8	N	N	So you know what the scientists are talking about	See, the creationists don't want you to know that what they call evolution is something science doesn't even claim exists. This book tells you what it's really all about -- the most obvious changes in anatomy (for example, fins to legs in amphibians and the other way around in whales) to the most arcane tweaks of biochemistry. It tells who Darwin was and the context of the world he lived in, connects his theories to those of Gregor Mendel, and then goes on to describe the &quot;modern synthesis&quot; that combined observed evolution and the theories that sought to explain it with the nascent science of genetics, and explains everything in such a way as to leave no doubt as to what's going on. The &quot;other side&quot; is given short shrift -- not because of scientific pressure, but simply because by and large the ideas of &quot;intelligent design&quot; and &quot;scientific creationism&quot; are largely irrelevant to biological research and belong more to the realm of politics and metaphysics than science. <br />A scientist might object that the book is a bit light on theory; this is perhaps true, but it's a popular book, written for a lay audience. That's okay. Such a book is necessary in an age where scientific ignorance is not only common but seemingly enforced by societal pressure; best to get good science in any way possible. Highly recommended.	2003-07-26
US	39141116	R17S5M2HKIDCUI	0688050425	606210340	The Food of Southern Italy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great book -- not just readable, but usable	Got it years and years ago -- maybe late 80s -- one of my first cookbook purchases when I was still in Middle School as a matter of fact. Excellent book (I highly recommend the Sicilian rosemary chicken). My dust jacket is damaged well beyond repair, and common sense tells me I should have thrown it out long ago, but I don't want to. The recipes are great, the graphic design of the book is unique and easy to read, and the pictures are some of the slickest and most appetizing I've ever seen in an American cookbook. <br />My only complaint with the book is that it's a bit too professional -- tools like raviolatrici (a very hard-to-find rolling-pin-like device used for making ravioli) and plaques au four (basically a huge cookie sheet) are not readily available in many places, requiring recourse to restaurant supply houses and large Italian neighborhoods; also, there is a one-size-fits-all approach to certain things such as bread dough that fits perfectly into a catering business such as the author's Vivande Porte Via but short-shrifts the richness of traditional Italian baking. These are minor issues, though, worthy of docking a half-star at most, and all the recipes are still quite usable for the home cook, and even then the professional mentality still leads to a great attention to detail. The book is eminently usable.<br />Published in 1987, this is now quite an old book, but it's still in my opinion a classic of Italian cooking. Just prepare yourself for the possibility that you might need a second copy in case your main copy gets trashed in the kitchen.	2003-07-06
US	39141116	R15GWSJHANP4FD	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intense. That's all I can say.	By now it's probably common knowledge who dies in this book, but I'm not going to be the one to spoil it for everyone, by any means. Let's just say that giving that away still tells only a small part of the story.<br />Harry's life has gone down the tubes -- a month away from Hogwarts, completely incommunicado from the wizard world, is driving him absolutely out of his mind. His cousin Dudley has grown up to be a two-bit thug with an amateur boxing career, and his aunt and uncle are as nasty to him as ever... until Harry and Dudley are attacked by dementors and a large squadron of owls descending on the Dursley kitchen signal the beginning of what will prove to be Harry's most harrowing year yet at Hogwarts. The revelations that a) Harry is being spied upon and b) his nasty aunt Petunia knows way more than she's telling about the wizard world lend an air of mystery and paranoia to a series that is no longer just a kid's book. Meanwhile, Harry has to deal with all the usual things teenagers deal with -- the stress of schooling (his impending Ordinary Wizarding Level exams ratcheting things higher than ever), the discovery of romance, and direct exposure to the sheer brutality of school politics continue to weigh on him. <br />Things have gone topsy-turvy indeed -- Harry rips into Ron and Hermione for not keeping in touch, only to find out that they haven't been allowed to talk to him, while Sirius Black is holed up in an old, magically-hidden house in London, surrounded by a squadron of wizards sworn to protect Harry; meanwhile, Harry goes on trial for illegally using magic to protect Dudley from the dementors, only to find out that one of the judges is the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, a thoroughly unpleasant and dictatorial woman named Dolores Umbridge, who clearly has it in for practically everyone, but most obviously Harry. To top it all off, the Daily Prophet has turned Harry's name into a joke -- a child once famous for being a survivor is now seenby the wizard world as an unstable, even deranged teenager spouting delusions about Voldemort's return. In the midst of it all, Voldemort himself is gathering his forces to rekindle the Wizards' War, and attempting to work his way into Harry's mind as the connection between the two becomes all the more obvious and chilling. <br />Jo Rowling never said it was going to be a kid's book -- that's what everyone assumed. That said, there's a fair amount of violence and some very gripping battle scenes, some rivaling the best of action movies like The Matrix or scifi like Jennifer Government or Snow Crash. Much of the book is filtered through the emotional overload of a teenager who has lived through things most adults should never have to deal with, and Rowling captures it all beautifully. The three year's wait was definitely worth it, and the end result shows a story in no danger of losing steam any time soon. If nothing else, this is gonna make one hell of a movie. <br />Incidentally, if you don't go through at least a quarter of this book in one sitting, you're either reading it on your breaks at work or you have no sense of adventure whatsoever.	2003-06-24
US	39141116	RPCG7VWI9JVHB	089815555X	314373154	How to Repair Food	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Very silly but truly valuable	This book probably appeals most to two kinds of people: those who don't cook and therefore are stuck when the recipe in BH&G doesn't pan out they way they expected, and the typical Alton Brown kitchen science person who not only has I'm Just Here for the Food but Cookwise, Kitchen Science, the complete Best Recipe series, and a sufficiently warped sense of humor to be rolling on the floor on each and every page of Kitchen Confidential. Pity that, because it's good for far more than just those two groups.<br />This book is really about crunch-time creativity (especially when the crunchy stuff is stuff that shouldn't be crunching). The sense of humor in the book is a bit dotty and (Julia) Childish, but it really goes out of its way to portray cooking disasters as something not to cry over, and even tells the rather sad story of the chef François Vatel and his suicide over a misunderstood fish order to make its point. It's not a book for culinary purists -- creative uses abound of convenience foods that most wannabe master chefs wouldn't normally touch -- but keep in mind the best section of your average church/school/community cookbook is probably the section on hints, tips, and substitutions, and remember that this is a whole book of that kind of thing. It's the culinary equivalent of a hospital crash cart.<br />Someone else said that this is something you will need mainly in emergencies. Well, that's pretty much true, but it's still a good book to pull off the shelf and just read, both for the information and the jokes. It also has the bonus of including a complete (rather sophisticated) meal made entirely with \\"spare parts\\" ingredients and instructions on dealing with balky equipment. Good stuff, and should be on every cook's bookshelf, not just the ones who need it most.	2003-05-25
US	39141116	R1THAB6X90BVT2	0762414405	891272943	Easybake Oven Gourmet	Books	5	19	24	N	N	I should have written this one	I had this idea about two years ago to buy an Easy-Bake oven and do some experiments with it to see what it was really capable of. I never did get around to doing those experiments, but I might wind up giving the oven to my nephew as soon as his mother thinks he's old enough to play with it. As it is, I acquired an Easy-Bake when I was in kindergarten or so, but never got to play with it -- in my mother's infinite wisdom, the cord was clipped because it was \\"too dangerous\\".<br />That wasn't very nice of her.<br />So, in celebration of the Easy-Bake's fortieth anniversary, someone else -- David Hoffman, TV writer and reporter, probably with Hasbro's prodding -- got around thirty chefs, including some very well-known ones like Rick Bayless and Bobby Flay (both of whom had Easy-Bakes as kids, even though it was a \\"girl's toy\\"), to come up with recipes using the oven. The recipes in it are serious cooks' food, from lobster pie to salsa to shortbread cookies; the best of them (the most impressive being an Easy-Bake-sized Linzertorte) get to be one of a select half-dozen recipe cards attached to the cover. And there's a very impressive history of the oven itself at the beginning, showing all the versions from the original through the extremely elaborate early 70s version (that even included a temperature control and timer) up to the modern white/purple/pink model. <br />I'm not too sure how seriously to take the book. The chefs involved obviously did it for pure hack value, and I would suggest taking it in the same spirit; many of the recipes are somewhat impractical done over a lightbulb, but they're still worth a shot just for fun. The kitsch value is high, but if nothing else it proves that the Easy-Bake is a toy worthy of both boys and girls.	2003-05-04
US	39141116	R2UHXNL1OZCK6S	0395700655	96796647	Cityscapes of Boston	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A worthy successor to a pretty cool book... when's volume 3?	The authors' second collaboration of historical photos of Boston (the first was Boston Then and Now from 1982) came out ten years after the original, and shows a Boston I'm more familiar with. Much of the blight that Boston seemed to have been drowning in as late as the late 80s is gone in the new pictures in this book, and more of it is shown. The architectural finesses -- buildings with added floors, the defacement of buildings such as the former Fiske building on State St, before-and-afters of Quincy Market -- are given great attention in this book, and Campbell, the author of the text, is not happy with much of it. Especially poignant, towards the end, is a huge bit of graffiti along Columbus Ave from the 60s protesting the impending construction of I-95 through Boston; in 1992, however, the highway never having been built, it is now a park serving people from the South End all the way down to Jamaica Plain.<br />This book is actually a readable book, more so than the first which was all about the pictures, and much of Campbell's ideas on  urban planning are on display here. Campbell, one gathers, would not be happy with the current plans to build open space over the Big Dig, yet he applauds the demolition of an old parking garage that converted Post Office Square from a desolate, confusing high-rise commercial ghetto into at least a more presentable area where the architecture of the surrounding buildings can be enjoyed from street level. Campbell's obsession with urban density comes off as being a bit agoraphobic, but it's easy to see what he means when he describes useless open space as being as much a blight as overhead highways or slums. <br />To those of you who might live in or regularly visit Boston, but have never seen, can't remember, or simply can't imagine downtown without the dust and construction that the Big Dig and its related projects have brought on, this book is a record of Boston just before they started tearing everything apart. It's also avaluable historical record of the evolution of a city.	2003-05-01
US	39141116	R3LB5COLLGHXX4	0486243125	284740482	Boston Then and Now: 59 Boston Sites Photographed in the Past and Present	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Yes, Virginia, there really was a Boston before the Big Dig	I'm not so certain that a book like this should be judged solely on its age. If anything, it now serves the same purpose as the original round of pictures did when it was first published. <br />This is a very different Boston from the modern one, you see -- Boston of 1980-82 was a crime-ridden, economically crunched failure of a city that had suffered the indignity of its historical places being ripped out for poorly-thought-out highway projects. A chronically depressed waterfront had been converted first to parking lots, then to high-rise apartment and office space; an architecturally conservative but rich city had disappeared under haphazardly built skyscrapers and prematurely decaying public works. And yet it still provides a view of places that in some ways haven't changed at all over the years, like Park Street, or places like Boylston St. near the Common that have changed profoundly yet are still very recognizable. <br />It's not as good a book as its successor, Cityscapes of Boston, as it has a tendency to avoid some things that were too weird (the Borders bookstore on School and Washington where I used to work -- used to be the Five Cent Savings Bank) or too blighted, and shots of some notorious Boston events like the Great Molasses Flood are missing, but it's still a very interesting book. I do hope Vanderwarker and Campbell have a third book in the works to cover Boston during and after the Big Dig, but get this one and Cityscapes together anyway before your next walk around Boston.	2003-05-01
US	39141116	R25FHNNN3DYNQP	0345425421	940192087	French Chef Cookbook	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Hardly her greatest, but still worth the price	In the beginning, there was Mastering the Art of French Cooking, where Julia Child, Simone Beck, and Louise Bertholle got together and made the art of Escoffier accessible to the average home cook. Somebody got Julia to do a couple of TV specials demonstrating her recipes, and this turned into one of WGBH-Boston's first great public television productions, The French Chef. This book is the record of the first few seasons of one of the world's first cooking shows.<br />It's not a great cookbook -- Julia has written three or four of those -- but if nothing else it's an archaeological gem of the culinary world. Organized not by recipe category but by episode, what we have here is a sort of reconstruction of a studio notebook on how to create a cooking show. An introduction describes the process of putting the show together, an occasionally-harrowing story of borrowed kitchens, technical challenges, and accidental stardom, while the recipes (first thirteen shows long since missing, sadly) give not just instructions but themes, even menus, the way Julia and her staff concieved them. <br />Yes, there are many good recipes in here, but that's not the main reason to buy this book. This book interested me because I'm putting together a cooking show of my own, and buying it just before taping my first episode served as inspiration and even a bit of a how-to book on the oddities of mixing TV production and food. Julia has written many books since, and much of what's in here can be found in more effective form in those books, but this is one of the few TV cookbooks I've seen that is truly a record of a cooking show, as opposed to a cookbook that happened to be written by the host of a show. For the price, it's certainly a worthwhile purchase.	2003-03-12
US	39141116	RI3OX3KY0UIY4	0811819698	476190877	Cucina Ebraica: Flavors of the Italian Jewish Kitchen	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Is there a restaurant that serves this stuff somewhere?	Short form: vegetables + raisins and pine nuts is a good combination. <br />There is a certain image of Jewish food and a certain image of Italian food in this country that is widely understood. The food in this book really is neither -- it's a unique cuisine that in some ways is a throwback to Roman food, while still reflecting the Jewish heritage that influenced it. And this is one of the few books readily available that discusses it -- even Claudia Roden's monumental Book of Jewish Food -- IMHO possibly the greatest ethnic cookbook I own -- has very little to say about Italian Jewish food, though its coverage of Sephardic and Mizrachi cooking is otherwise excellent.<br />The recipes in here are snapshots of foods that aren't necessarily standardized -- the recipe for Riso di Sabato (Sabbath rice), for example, points out that some make it like a risotto, some don't. Three different versions of Passover charoset appear, from different parts of Italy, and even though the world-famous carciofi alla giudea show up there's a riot of other vegetable dishes, including many based on la zucca barucca, a pumpkin-like \\"blessed squash\\" that shows up quite frequently in this book. <br />Italian Jewish food is something very different from what the average cook might expect -- the combination leads to a fairly exotic yet very homey cuisine, and this book is one of the few I've seen that makes it accessible to American cooks. If you like seeking out interesting ethnic cuisines, there's a hole in your library if you don't have this one.	2003-03-12
US	39141116	R30O4SDOYAE0AO	0894803123	398952310	Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream & Dessert Book	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Who needs secret recipes anyway?	First off, Dastardly Mash no longer exists. If you like it, you're going to have to make it, and the recipe is in here.<br />Offering another general review of what may be one of the best (if not best, at least the first) books on ice cream you can buy would be a bit pointless, so I'm going to talk a bit about what they did with this book instead. &quot;Secret recipes&quot; are a big deal -- a guy named Todd has put together quite a successful line of cookbooks based on copying famous foods, and everyone from Coca-Cola to Boston Market has their secrets -- a syrup, a marinade, a cookie. But when Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield published this book in 1987, right around the time Ben &amp; Jerry's was just hitting the big time, they were letting the cash cow out of the bag and doing it in print. Hasn't hurt them a bit, and the book is sixteen years old now.<br />Now obviously it's not going to be easy to duplicate the concrete-dense mouthfeel of B&amp;J's ice cream without one of those pricey self-contained ice cream makers from Simac or DeLonghi, but you can still play with their recipes and recreate their flavors (such as the above-mentioned Dastardly Mash) and have a lot of fun doing it. The point is that Ben and Jerry realized that having fun with food is enhanced by learning about it, and nothing is gained by keeping that learning secret. <br />Buy this book. Make some ice cream, and enjoy it. And make sure you pass on the recipe to anyone who asks.	2003-03-07
US	39141116	R1XNTMH1JG9V81	0596001045	596925180	iMovie 2: The Missing Manual	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Must-Have iMovie book -- a bit outdated though	First I have to give props to David Pogue and his Missing Manual series. As a bookseller and computer geek I've long favored the Dummies books as the best entry-level source for third-party information on software. However, O'Reilly made a smart move when they turned their attention on that market and grabbed Dummies standby Pogue to headline the new series. The Missing Manuals (and their mutant-dogcow mascot) are a credit to O'Reilly and a must-have... assuming, that is, that they cover the program you need. The series is still too small, but I'm sure it won't stay that way.<br />Now, to the book itself. If you need to do something with iMovie, it's in there. That pretty much covers what I need to say in this review, but it doesn't cover everything the book has to offer. Remember back in the 80s when the Mac made desktop publishing a reality, only to unleash a torrent of wretchedly amateurish graphic design? Well, Pogue spends much of the first couple of chapters attempting to prevent that from happening. This book starts off with a very basic primer on video production and how to use your equipment -- assumed to be a typical consumer-grade MiniDV camcorder, but it covers other options as well, particularly video bridges and the like.<br />The meat of the book discusses iMovie 2's capabilities, including discussions of its weaknesses and how to work around them. Effects, titles, and transitions are discussed in detail, including some useful information on crossfades (never fade straight to black -- instead, you want a black stillframe). Conversion to other formats is also an issue, and a significant part of the book discusses postproduction using QuickTime Pro. Directions are given for converting your work for DVD or VCD as well.<br />The issue I have with the book is largely its focus on iMovie in MacOS Classic, and the bugs that are present in that version that might not be in the OS X version. Screenshots all come from 9.x, with the only Aqua material being theinterface of iMovie itself. I don't mark down for this since the program operates more or less the same, but an inexperienced user may have trouble. (I might note as well that the book works just as well for iMovie 3, which has a superficially different interface but handles more or less identically.)<br />So, yeah. If you're doing video production on iMovie, this is the book to get, hands down.	2003-02-19
US	39141116	R1EJS38Q6NUOC3	1563054345	94211965	The Wine Bible	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The book to start with	So I'm a beer snob, and learning to be a (cheap) wine snob. This book was given me as a gift by my parents, and it is cool.<br />It won't tell you everything there is to know about wine; that only comes with further reading and lots of tasting. But it's a spectacular foundation to learning the history and traditions involved, and it does a remarkable job of covering its subject without prejudices. The history of recent (i.e. last couple of hundred years) of wine development is the focus -- if you're looking for information on ancient wines you won't find much of it here, but if you want to know how Chile or Australia became the wine-growing powerhouses they are today, this book will tell you everything you might wish to know.<br />I've no real complaints with the book. There are big holes in its coverage, but wine is a truly gigantic subject and MacNeil has done a great job covering as much ground as she can -- there's great information on most of the major wine-growing countries, starting with France and Italy and going from there. There's even a narrative of sorts, with heroes like Robert Mondavi and the Gallo Brothers who rebuilt the California wine industry with book knowledge when the traditions had been wiped out by Prohibition, and villains like the phylloxera aphid that nearly destroyed the wine industry worldwide before American botanists saved the day by grafting European vines onto American rootstocks. Ancient traditions in France, Germany, and Italy are placed alongside modern innovation in California, Australia, and South America, showing that either way is an effective method for creating a great wine. Champagne is mentioned alongside the humble Spanish cava and party-loving German sekt. And the great old fortified wines -- port, sherry, madeira, marsala -- get their due in detail most people probably never imagined.<br />It's an excellent book to just open to a random page and flip through. It's informative without being snobbish, and written for boththe casual browser and the serious oenophile. Tradition and modern science sit side-by-side, and the reader is bound to find a few little-known future favorites (Argentinian Malbec, in my case, a powerfully flavorful wine that I tried alongside some pot roast) just waiting in the \\"interesting cheap stuff\\" bins at the liquor store. Essentially, with this book there's no excuse for buying the cheap stuff in the box, or simply settling for the easy varietals (unless of course that's what you want). If you want to learn about wine and like to read, get this book and the address of a good liquor store.	2003-02-18
US	39141116	RSQ2ZNREYX22F	0201758482	737115609	The Little Digital Video Book	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The question is what do you need...	Okay, so I got this idea to do a cooking show. It took me a very long time to get what I needed to do it, and as I write I'm just about to start it with a friend's help. Meantime, I needed to know how to handle my camcorder. While the iMovie 2 Missing Manual from O'Reilly was a huge help, this book covers a lot more of the basics for what I need, though not perfectly.<br />This book focuses on two basic areas: &quot;studio&quot; organization and taping technique. His organizational techniques will certainly work, and the ideas of keeping clean timecode and logging your tapes are very good ones, though the latter is a bit much unless you spend your days with your camcorder attached to your hand. Practice assignments are given in several chapters, and the matter of editing is covered in substantial depth. The focus is on consumer and semi-pro MiniDV, and you'll find little to no coverage of pro-grade equipment, but since that's well out of the target audience's average budget, that's not a flaw.<br />It is perhaps a minor flaw that a consumer-level book is somewhat Mac-centric, but since the professional video world itself is heavily Mac-centric and the concepts are presented in a general manner, this is not such a problem as it might seem (I'm a Mac user, so it's not a problem at all for me). An important point is that it focuses on the production of video shorts more than full-length television shows or movies, and Rubin's aesthetic of movie editing can be summed up as &quot;take it as it comes&quot; (he seems very influenced by Dogme95, the &quot;Vow of Chastity&quot; created by several Danish filmmakers). Special effects are to be minimized to avoid the disastrous amateurishness that developed in the early days of desktop publishing, and the limitations of consumer DV gear are to be accepted rather than minimized or compensated for. <br />It's not quite enough for someone looking to do serious video production; Rubin's other book Nonlinear is probably the book toget for that. And the one flaw I can't forgive in the book is assuming certain features are more common than they really are -- as a professional it's clear Rubin has never been stuck buying a bottom-of-the-barrel consumer camcorder, and he makes assumptions that reinforce that impression. But it's a very good and easily digested book for learning DV 101, and will get you started on your own productions very quickly and painlessly, while keeping you from too many making stupid or gauche mistakes. You will still need your manuals, but this is the glue between camcorder and editing program that will make your movies work.	2003-02-13
US	39141116	RP4YFV8G5EXD	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Snow Crash without the cyberpunk	First, to dismiss the cover quote that describes it as Catch-22 meets the Matrix -- more like Snow Crash meets Moby Dick. And it's clear that Max Barry is a big Neal Stephenson fan, as the world overrun by corporate America is a very Stephensonian theme. In Barry's world, corporate America controls not only the US (and the entire western hemisphere) but also England, Australia, and Japan, and the consumerist/corporate culture (referred to as \\"capitalizm\\") is so pervasive that a person's last name is determined by the company they work for.<br />Hack Nike works for Nike in Australia (a USA country). He gets himself involved in a plot by Nike.au management to gain word-of-mouth for their latest sneaker line by killing people who buy the sneakers (a la 1980s gangland fashion wars), which draws the attention of Jennifer Government, a former ad agency wunderkind turned FBI agent (or something like it) with a bar code tattooed below her eye. Hack goes to the Police, who instead of making an arrest on the plotters subcontract the murders to the NRA (now a heavily armed privatized army-for-hire), making an enemy of John Nike, the VP who came up with the idea in the first place and the subject of substantial obsessing by Jennifer. And the corporate world itself is a character, as the plot line that started with some very shady dealing builds towards an all-out corporate civil war between two megalopolies that started off as frequent-flyer incentive plans and grew into political factions dominated by big-name megacorporations like Nike, Reebok, AT&T, IBM, and even Boeing. <br />The plot goes from Australia to Los Angeles to London, its characters let loose in a world where a hostile takeover involves cyberterrorism and paramilitary action as well as stock market manipulation and the Government stands seemingly powerless against the idea that \\"free trade == anything goes\\". It's a very fast-paced read, to the point where the book's sense of timing is a little lost in the shuffle, but it makes for some definite popcorn-movie reading. The book represents a sharp rebuke to the forces of laissez-faire capitalism as both of its protagonists are shown journeying away from the corporate mindset that built this strange, homogenized mess of a world, and also shows a sense of just how strange reality could be. <br />This book isn't perfect. It is, as I said, very derivative of Neal Stephenson's book Snow Crash, and that tends to mute the creativity of the book (though it does manage to avoid some of Stephenson's stranger plot twisting). Also, the book carries not one but two romantic subplots, one of which is absolutely critical to the story and one of which fits in but seems a bit forced and unnecessary at times. The title character remains a bit mysterious even at the end when the meaning behind her bar code is revealed, but she recalls the best of action movie rogue cop characters like John McLean or Martin Riggs. Like I said, popcorn reading. It will be interesting to see what the movie based on this book will be like -- it's hard to imagine this story being toned down by removing the controversial bits (like the namedropping of major companies). <br />I do recommend this book. It's not the humorfest implied by some reviewers -- in fact it's a remarkably gritty and occasionally bloody book, and it sacrifices realism to the plot on a number of occasions -- but it still works as a sort of grim reductio-ad-absurdum satire where laughs are beside the point. I think it will make an excellent movie, as long as the movie is kept reasonably faithful to the book, and I think Max Barry probably has a long future as a cult author along the lines of Chuck Palahniuk ahead of him.	2003-01-25
US	39141116	RK29LAKUZW209	0451207068	736795986	The Wise Guy Cookbook: My Favorite Recipes From My Life as a Goodfella to Cooking on the Run	Books	5	79	84	N	N	There's the Sopranos, and then there's the Goodfellas	Don't dis the Sopranos book -- just don't say it's the same thing as this. The Sopranos Family Cookbook is marketing with good recipes, whereas Henry Hill's masterpiece here is as much a retelling of his biography as it is an excellent Sicilian-American cookbook with a heavy emphasis on making do when you can't get what you need.<br />I think the recipe that sums this book up best is the Oven Penitentiary Sauce, a concoction that Henry and his prison buddies cooked up for those days when the guards have taken all your pots and pans away and all you've got is the steam table pans and the prison bakery. The whole book is like that -- real food, salvaged when something goes wrong. Lots of Italian, but a few surprises from other parts of the country (particularly the South), reflecting Henry's travels in Witness Protection. Substitutions are a big deal too -- from the pork-for-veal scam Hill learned as a kid working in a pizzeria all the way up. Hill's message to cooks: you can always find a way to make it work.<br />At my bookstore we sold a couple of hundred copies of the Sopranos book over the Holidays, and that was pretty cool. But I had two standard recommendations to go along with that -- Italian Classics from Cooks Illustrated and this one. Of all three (and I say buy them all), fuhgeddaboutit, this is the best -- it's very autobiographical, and will leave you very, very hungry at the end.	2003-01-08
US	39141116	R1FFROIT74F73H	1591160480	972709803	Uzumaki, Volume 3 (Vol 3)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	"Twisted" is not inappropriate...	First off, the rating: it's a composite of all three volumes, as this appears to be an entry for all three. The first and the third are spellbinding, but the second volume tends to get lost (especially in the hospital plot, which doesn't seem to really fit into the story). <br />Uzumaki is by and large one of the most random bits of writing that I've ever seen, and yet scene to scene it all manages to mostly hang together. Kurozu-cho's descent into collective madness is shown in vignettes -- the girl with the scar on her forehead, the heroine's battle with her hair, the snail people -- and where it hangs together it is thoroughly engrossing. And I say this as someone who has never been a horror fan.<br />The madness of the story shows in the moral detachment of many of the supporting characters -- as the spiral's influence gradually consumes the town, a creeping complacence makes the unthinkable real. Normal human beings become cannibals in several chapters. The very fabric of reality is twisted into spirals and helices, and ultimately it seems even the heroine herself succumbs.<br />This is horror for a different crowd -- not the camp of Dracula, the cynicism of Scream, or the cerebral creepiness of Blair Witch, but a patchwork of dementia and shattered reality of a type that perhaps only Stephen King or certain SF authors even come close to, a type that lurks in supermarket tabloids and folktales but seldom seen outside of its context. Parts of it relate to postapocalyptic movies like Mad Max or Threads, and other parts freakshow exploitation horror, but only in Uzumaki does this find itself in its pure, unmoderated form. Like the spiral, it will draw you in.	2003-01-08
US	39141116	R2HOTDT7YWBU5X	0936184590	275287222	Here In America's Test Kitchen: All New Recipes, Quick Tips, Equipment Ratings, Food Tastings, and Science Experiments from the Hit Public Television Show	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Julia Collin is like, so cute...	... but I won't talk about that in this review. <br />What I will talk about is a cookbook that takes the culinary gearheads at Cooks Illustrated and allows them to let it rip -- if the Best Recipe series is a solid and thorough series of workshops for the technically-minded cook, and the first America's Test Kitchen book seems to be a slightly dull but not unenjoyable tasting menu some of the crew's favorite recipes, Here In America's Test Kitchen is a blowout, a blow-the-roof-off-and-call-the-cops kegger of cool recipes. It doesn't say it explicitly, but this book is all about party food and comfort food.<br />Party food? Buffalo wings (their secret: extra Tabasco and a bit of vinegar), sangria, chili, barbecue ribs, and grill-roasted turkey for a different twist on Thanksgiving. (I think they do a different turkey recipe in every book.) Comfort food? Beef burgundy. Steakhouse filet mignon. Kung pao shrimp (with several choices of fried rice). Even green bean casserole and the missing meat lasagna recipe that should have been in Italian Classics. There's lots of things to look at and cook here, each one sliced and diced in classic Cooks Illustrated style to get the best possible results. <br />This is a must-have book. It's loaded with behind-the-scenes pictures just like its predecessor, and the food in it is picked out for fun factor and/or just novelty; they even claim to make stuffed peppers appetizing, which is a pretty daring proposition. Get this book, and I promise you'll enjoy just reading it; if other TV cookbooks with their closeups and cutting-edge graphic design are food porn, this stuff is Penthouse Letters.	2003-01-08
US	39141116	R1MRFG3I4IWW7V	0787111813	251883781	Mile High Club: First Class All the Way With the Rich and Famous	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Loopy, funny, but not to be taken too seriously	Decadence and debauchery at 35,000 feet would sum up this book, a rather screwy and hilarious account of the ultimate customers from hell. I can see why a lot of people might be turned off from this, but it's brain candy for anyone who deals with the public -- dishing dirt and naming names. As someone who's worked retail for years, I can say I appreciate much of this book, and the dirt dished is by turns shocking, depressing, and just flat out hilarious.<br />That said... well, the fact that so many names are named tells me that a lot of what's said here is either fish stories or falls into the \\"you can't make this up\\" category -- celebrities behaving badly, celebrities behaving well, and incompetent management. Yes, it's all incredibly low-class, but that's what the author (who was known in those days by the nickname \\"Dirty Diana\\" herself, even though she claimed she didn't engage in all of those things... yeah, right...) wants you to think.<br />Those who have never worked service jobs probably can't appreciate this except as a highly questionable, if extensive, piece of celebrity gossip; therefore, you might decide on a read to agree with those who gave it one star. That's understandable; it's not a book for everyone. Prudes and those with no sense of humor need not apply. As for me, I'd very much like to know who the attendant she referred to as \\"Body Beautiful\\" who went on to her own sitcom was...	2003-01-07
US	39141116	R3TL1Q6S6ZFMFG	0936184582	845659303	Italian Classics (Best Recipe)	Books	4	146	152	N	N	cucina di geek	Cooks' Illustrated, surely, is many things to many people. I like to think of them as cooking for the hard-core geeks; they slice and dice recipes as well as vegetables, and work the kinks out of them to make what is at least their idea of the best possible version of a meal. To the geek chef, their books are the technical flip side of the theoretical work of Alton Brown, Shirley Corriher, and Harold McGee. <br />Don't pick this book up thinking that you're going to get someone's Italian nonna's sunday gravy recipe; that's what the Sopranos Family Cookbook is for. This is very technical stuff that involves stripping the great recipes down to their bare essentials and rebuilding them from the ground up. Sacred cows of Italian cuisine, as in everything else they do, are scrutinized very carefully, and slaughtered as often as not. Only the most basic definition of the dish is taken for granted. The end result is sometimes minimalist; the Baked Ziti recipe, for example, has no ricotta in it and is almost vegetarian. The end result is a dizzying book that should be on the shelf of anyone who likes to cook Italian. Finally, the frequent sidebars on cooking equipment, a Cooks Illustrated staple, offer deep background on the techniques in the recipes. <br />Now with raves like that, why only 4 stars, you might be asking? Well, it's not perfect. The Best Recipe series presents itself as a bible of cooking, and it's not; glaring omissions in this book include meat lasagna (though the big bragging point on the dust jacket is the vegetable lasagna recipe) and cannoli. There is also a tendency to repeat articles from earlier books, an understandable but occasionally annoying situation that tends to leave the reader feeling as though the magazine people are trying to cut corners. And the appeal of this book isn't universal; the Cooks Illustrated style is, as I said, very technical, and a bit chatty at times. If you just want the recipes and don't care about the particulars, thisbook will bore you. Me, I like cookbooks I can read, so this isn't a problem. <br />So, in conclusion, I say this: if you like chomping data as much as you like chomping food, this book will rock your world. If not, the recipes are still pretty good.	2002-10-25
US	39141116	R14D1UGIGHPKWH	093618454X	142017210	The America's Test Kitchen Cookbook	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Think of it as a sample size...	This was the first Cooks Illustrated cookbook I bought (I now have three) and it's... well, limited. It's meant to accompany the TV series, though in actuality it's really only a small part of what the TV show is about. Like other Best Recipe books, it occasionally nicks material from the other books (a frequent Cooks Illustrated annoyance) but it still manages to work nicely, and the recipes in it are still enough to get the reader going. <br />It's the odd one out of the series, limited as it is to a fairly narrow selection of items, and it has a rather strange but appetizing Southern accent (strange because of the show's basis in New England). It also has plenty of pictures that give it a playfulness that the bigger books lack.<br />I do recommend this book, with some reservations (though the recipe that teaches how to butterfly a turkey is not something you're going to find anywhere else, and might be worth it if it saves someone some frustration on Thanksgiving). I really wanted to give it 3 1/2 stars, and rounded up because I don't like being cheap with praise. Just understand that it's a sample of what Cooks Illustrated is all about, and really just a cleverly done ad for their bigger books, and you will definitely not be disappointed.	2002-10-25
US	39141116	R3FDQSGCPAN734	0374130337	14638458	Coyote Vs. Acme	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Weird as all hell, but...	How many things can you say about this book? Until I got around to reading Fight Club, this was easily the strangest book I'd ever read. The title essay is pretty fun (if skewering the conventions of things like legalese makes you laugh; it works for me) but the real humor in the book comes from stretching things to their logical extremes. Where Frazier does that, it's funny. Where he doesn't, it often doesn't quite work (previously mentioned was the Satanist university president, an essay that fails to make sense even in Frazier's cockeyed world view). <br />So we see the traumatic aftereffects of the cancellation of one of the better-known classic sitcoms, part of La Femme Nikita's tax return, the concerns of a life insurance agency that deals with soap opera characters, and the comparison of a woman's laugh to brandy by firelight (really impossible to explain without reading it). There is also juxtaposition of extreme ideas; We see bank bureaucracy not merely run amok but deliberately driven off the rails. We see a mild-mannered Great Gatsby-ish short story suddenly invaded by a German Panzergruppe. We see the poetry of Don Johnson. We see a Martha Stewart-type character named Elsa disposing of incriminating evidence.<br />This is an excellent book, but with one caveat: it simply is not going to appeal to everyone, no matter how someone might try to sell it. Mr. Frazier's work here reflects a sense of the surreal more extreme than Monty Python, up in the range of Andy Kaufman or Emo Phillips, and that sort of edgy comedy makes your brain hurt. I like it, though.	2002-09-12
US	39141116	R25XSKDQDJD7FP	0834801736	641787763	Sushi Made Easy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Dated but workable	The big problem with this book is that it was written in 1982, and American sushi culture has had its own evolutionary path since then. The profusion of maki that dominates American sushi isn't here, which is fine, but it also doesn't mention the omnipresent California roll. <br />That said, it's an excellent book, and I have no doubt that with this book and a few months of intensive practice anyone can become a passable sushi chef. The ingredients are easier to find now than they were, and this book also provides a number of forms of sushi that simply don't get seen much in American sushi bars. You will need other references for some of the esoterica, but this book will have you up and running on the basics quickly, and even if you so choose making some very interesting items that you don't see every day.	2002-08-01
US	39141116	R3O7O32SAPG221	0963617370	925255732	The Espresso Bartenders Guide to Expresso Bartending	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Good recipes, incredibly crappy book	This book is a prime example of why self-publishing is an iffy proposition. The recipes in it are excellent; that's not the problem. The writing is wretched, the editing is nonexistent; while I'm sure the author is an excellent tutor one on one (whatever criticisms I have of the book as written, she knows what she's talking about), but she cannot write to save her life. I found reading this book as an adjunct to my training (I was a Starbucks barista at the time) to be terribly useful, but I haven't seen my copy since 1999 and I haven't really missed it.<br />The only really invaluable recipe here is the Snickerdoodle latte, which is a vanilla latte with whipped cream and cinnamon on it. Apart from that there are far better sources for information. For the record, the three stars I gave this book are almost solely because of the recipes (it gets some props for at least attempting an organization that fits a barista better than a bartender, though); if it wasn't for that it would barely be deserving of one star.	2002-04-10
US	39141116	R16YXGBY3CV7RC	0425074811	870728260	Chariots of the Gods	Books	1	15	23	N	N	The &quot;Reefer Madness&quot; of archaeology	It amazes me that anyone can take this book seriously, much less consider it a way to open one's mind. It amazes me that this book is still in print. It amazes me that von Daniken is still writing. <br />Highlights for this book: first off, von Daniken exhibits all the typical behavior of Martin Gardner's &quot;hermit scientist&quot; -- long on speculation, short on proof. Second, mentioning people like Edward Cayce favorably. Third, an undercurrent of racism inherent to much literature of this type (&quot;of course zey could not haff made zese; zey are not European!&quot;). On top of all that, the edition I have would appear to be a fairly bad translation of a ridiculous book, making it perfect reading for those late-night toke'n'Twinkie sessions. <br />Get this used. It's not worth the price of buying new. I got mine for a quarter at a library discard sale, and since I don't smoke pot...	2002-04-10
US	39141116	R1EHA6PI95CXSJ	0517207125	698936043	From Julia Child's Kitchen	Books	5	18	21	N	N	One of the great cookbooks of all time	If you know nothing about cooking, this is the book to buy first, and the fact that it's so hard to find is a damn shame. Julia is who she is for a good reason. The recipes (and more) in here -- the original Caesar Salad (given to Julia by Cesar Cardini's daughter), the last words in puff pastry and chocolate mousse recipes, a discourse on the ethics of cooking lobster, advice on metric measurements (written in the '70s when there was hope for the US to convert, but relevant now in the era of Internet recipes), and even a comparison of French and American butchering practices make this more than just your average TV cookbook (it was the companion to the color French Chef series). <br />To any cookbook interested in Western cooking of any sort, this should be a part of your library. It doesn't cover everything, but if you can't learn to cook from this book you can't cook period. Julia has written many a cookbook (even Baking With Julia, though written by Dorie Greenspan, still has Julia's spirit in it apart from the TV connection), and most all are great, but this is the one Julia book every serious chef should own.	2002-04-10
US	39141116	R1YSJ586H32EC1	0735200300	693143636	How to Succeed with Women	Books	3	1	3	N	N	You get what you want out of it...	Someone said this book is properly titled &quot;How to be a playa&quot;. This is true, though I don't necessarily think it's a bad thing. The advice in it IMHO seems sound, though a bit cold; I'd like to give it four stars but I strongly suspect a lot of the case histories are shallwesay less than true. Saying that it stereotypes women is a bit harsh, though, as the &quot;stereotyping&quot; is much more elaborate. <br />The writing style is rather loose (Eric Raymond's Sex Tips For Geeks page gives a lot of the same advice much more concisely), but entertaining; these guys obviously know how to write an instruction manual, even if they're blowing smoke some of the time. Also, despite their &quot;this is the only way&quot; idea, it does seem as though a lot of what they say can be pick-and-choose -- if you're not too comfortable with the mass dating thing, you can still use some of their techniques. <br />I do recommend it, though only to those whose personalities are not very conducive to being hit on. Quantity to find quality -- that's a pretty exhausting (and potentially messy, if not flat out ugly) way of doing the job, but it will work eventually. As for whether it's changed my life... not yet, but I got some issues to work out that this book can't help me with before I get to the good part.	2001-12-18
