US	39169752	RCI1ZAG8TSP08	0918294185	99933478	Poland, Communism, nationalism, anti-semitism	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Jewish Author Unmasks the Kielce Pogrom	The tale of the Kielce Pogrom is well known. Someone started a rumor that a Polish boy had been kidnapped by Jews and killed for his blood to be used in the making of matzo. The Poles, backward and bigoted and stupid as they are supposed to be, believed it all, and went on a spontaneous murderous rampage against the local Jews. Communist propaganda baselessly blamed Polish nationalist forces for the Kielce Pogrom. The left-wing press in the west took it all in and presented it as fact, as do modern educational Holocaust materials.<br /><br />The truth is rather different. To begin with, the backdrop for Polish-Jewish tensions had not been religious prejudices nor archaic superstitions, but property disputes in a war-ravaged nation together with the fact of Poles and Jews falling on different sides in attitude towards the impending Soviet-imposed puppet state. The author Checinski, a onetime Jewish member of the much-hated Communist security forces (UB, or Bezpieka) provides evidence that the so-called Kielce Pogrom was staged by Communist forces, with direct coordination by the Soviet occupants of Poland.<br /><br />A top Soviet intelligence official (Dyomin, or Demin), came to the Kielce area shortly before the pogrom and left soon afterwards. The boy's kidnapping was faked, with a group of men threatening him with a beating if he did not claim that he had been kidnapped by Jews. Significantly, the boy was the son of a Communist informer. Later, Dyomin himself interrogated the boy. During the Kielce pogrom, the Communist militia disarmed the Jews and shot many of them in cold blood. Significantly, neither the father of the \\"kidnapped\\" boy nor members of the Communist militia ever faced trial.<br /><br />Other accounts not mentioned by Checinski corroborate his findings. Intriguing detail is provided by Zuckerman (A Surplus of Memory, p. 661), whose account only accentuates the staged nature of the pogrom by pointing out that the disarming of the Jews by Communist militia taking place the day BEFORE the pogrom. A Russian article cited by Chodakiewicz (After the Holocaust, p. 184) mentions some Soviet documents that confirm the Soviet set-up of the Kielce Pogrom.<br /><br />Checinski acknowledges the Polish Jews' support for the Soviets during and after the German-Soviet conquest of Poland in 1939 as a factor in the intensification of antisemitic feelings among Poles. In common with many other authors, he attributes the pro-Soviet Jewish attitude to the fact of Soviet deliverance from the Nazis. But this does not hold. To begin with, the genocidal intentions of the Germans had not been generally taken seriously by most Polish Jews at this time, as they tended to see the Germans as a cultured people. And, in either case, a large fraction of Polish Jews had also exhibited a pro-Soviet stance during the 1920 Polish-Soviet war, well before the Nazis even existed. Furthermore, the pro-Russian orientation of eastern Polish Jews goes back to czarist days, even though Russian antisemitism was, by any measure, much more severe than Polish antisemitism.<br /><br />Checinski suggests that the surviving postwar Polish Jews were attracted to Communism because of its promises of egalitarianism and the abolition of antisemitism, but then shoots down his own argument by acknowledging the fact that the Stalinist purges of the 1930's, which had claimed the lives of many Jewish Communists, had been \\"unknown or conveniently forgotten\\" (p. 8). Apropos to \\"unknown\\", Checinski seems to forget the fact that Communism had shown its true face from the very beginning (to anyone not blinded by ideology) as a movement based on deception, state terror, and totalitarianism.<br /><br />Checinski describes Jews as having played a significant role, in both the leadership and rank-and-file, of the Communist-front organization of Poles in the USSR (p. 11). He also speaks of Jewish Communists as \\"having been a major asset in the imposition of Communism in Poland\\".(p. 165).  He also speaks of the \\"relatively high percentage of Jews in the Communist power elites\\" (p. 89) of Soviet-ruled Poland. However, Jewish Communists in Poland were encouraged to change their names and to deny their Jewishness (p. 13), causing obvious difficulties in arriving at any estimate of their numbers.<br /><br />One common Holocaust myth would have us belief that it was only in postwar Poland that Jews were killed over property disputes, and that these were strictly antisemitic outrages. In actuality, such occurrences also took place in Hungary and Slovakia. Checinski cites a source (pp. 15-16) that relates these events to the extreme destitution of the postwar population. Not mentioned is the fact that the killings took place within the context of the general lawlessness spawned by the just-concluded war and brutal German occupation.<br /><br />Checinski devotes the bulk of his book to discussing how antisemitism developed and flourished within Communism. Note that much of contemporary western academia and mass media is left-wing, and, owing to its latent anti-Christian bigotry, has always tried to blame Christianity for the existence of antisemitism. The falseness of this charge is inadvertently shown by Checinski. The reader learns in detail how the Communists, who had repudiated religion and had especial contempt for Christianity, and who could not care less about who ostensibly was responsible for the crucifixion of Christ, were quite antisemitic.  Communist antisemitism wore many disguises, including anti-Zionism and anti-Trotskyism. In the early postwar period, it showed as early as 1946, when many Communist Jewish officials were removed from power. Communist antisemitism only grew and expanded after Stalin's death.<br /><br />Checinski has performed a valuable service by showing that the so-called Kielce Pogrom was no spontaneous Polish-made anti-Jewish riot. It is high time that the mass media in the west, and Holocaust materials in particular, recognize and publicize this fact.of Communism in Poland\\". (p. 165).  He also speaks of the \\"relatively high percentage of Jews in the Communist power elites\\" (p. 89) of Soviet-ruled Poland. However, Jewish Communists in Poland were encouraged to change their names and to deny their Jewishness (p. 13), causing obvious difficulties in arriving at any estimate of their numbers. <br /> <br />One common Holocaust myth would have us belief that it was only in postwar Poland that Jews were killed over property disputes, and that these were strictly antisemitic outrages. In actuality, such occurrences also took place in Hungary and Slovakia. Checinski cites a source (pp. 15-16) that relates these events to the extreme destitution of the postwar population. Not mentioned is the fact that the killings took place within the context of the general lawlessness spawned by the just-concluded war and brutal German occupation. <br /> <br />Checinski devotes the bulk of his book to discussing how antisemitism developed and flourished within Communism. Note that much of contemporary western academia and mass media is left-wing, and, owing to its latent anti-Christian bigotry, has always tried to blame Christianity for the existence of antisemitism. The falseness of this charge is inadvertently shown by Checinski. The reader learns in detail how the Communists, who had repudiated religion and had especial contempt for Christianity, and who could not care less about who ostensibly was responsible for the crucifixion of Christ, were quite antisemitic.  Communist antisemitism wore many disguises, including anti-Zionism and anti-Trotskyism. In the early postwar period, it showed as early as 1946, when many Communist Jewish officials were removed from power. Communist antisemitism only grew and expanded after Stalin's death. <br /> <br />Checinski has performed a valuable service by showing that the so-called Kielce Pogrom was no spontaneous Polish-made anti-Jewish riot. It is high time that the mass media in the west, andHolocaust materials in particular, recognize and publicize this fact. <br /> <br />	2005-09-28
US	39169752	R3G7VI7M7B05W5	0805076824	926765114	102 Minutes: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Captures the Magnitude of the Tragedy	Authors Dwyer and Flynn have packed a great deal of information into one volume. For example, the jumping out of windows is clarified. Those who initially survived on the impact floors, and were able to move, jumped out of the aircraft-punctured holes in the wall as a near-reflexive behavior from the intolerable heat, doing so within a few minutes of impact. Owing to cracks in the floors and distortions of door frames caused by the aircraft impact, the fire and smoke then found access to progressively higher floors above the zone of impact. This made them increasingly untenable in later minutes after the impact, prompting their trapped occupants to first break windows and then jump in a relatively \\"planned\\" manner.<br /><br />Dwyer and Flynn make the scale of the terrorist attack comprehensible to the reader. Normal office fires cover only a small fraction of one floor. Seven floors were on fire simultaneously in each of the two twin towers, and the fires spread eventually to about 10 floors each (not counting minor fuel-vapor fires). At a fire hose discharge rate of 250 gallons per minute, firefighters could, at most, have been able to handle the fires on one floor. And even this would only have been the case had all the elevators been working, the water pipes not been severed, and there had been no people to evacuate or otherwise get in the way.<br /><br />Some of Dwyer and Flynn's suggestions of would-be improved (actually older) design beg the question as to their efficacy. Consider, for instance, the old 4-hour skyscraper fire rating compared with the theoretical 2-hour fire rating of the WTC. What good would four hours of heat tolerance have done if the fires did not burn themselves out before then? The WTC towers would just have collapsed after 4 hours instead of the less than two hours. The same holds for aircraft-impact damage to the thin layers of sprayed-on insulation. Would not the same vibrations have doomed any thick concrete or masonry encasing of steel, causing it to crack and thereby expose the steel to superheated air or open flame? And, had the staircases been encased in masonry instead of flimsy fiberboard, would not the cracking and collapse of brittle masonry have been even more effective in sealing off all of the stairwells in the North WTC, and all but one of the stairwells in the South WTC? In fact, some of the survivors managed to move fallen fiberboard out of the way in the stairwells, and it would have been much more difficult (if not impossible) to move fallen sections of wall masonry. Finally, owing to the inherent chaos of a tragedy of this magnitude, with thousands of events going on at the same time, it is difficult to imagine how a coordinated response by rescuers could have been executed, and how survivors could have been informed in a timely manner. So it is doubtful if the presence of more stairwells, especially if far from each other, would have made that much difference.asing of steel, causing it to crack and thereby expose the steel to superheated air or open flame? And, had the staircases been encased in masonry instead of flimsy fiberboard, would not the cracking and collapse of brittle masonry have been even more effective in sealing off all of the stairwells in the North WTC, and all but one of the stairwells in the South WTC? In fact, some of the survivors managed to move fallen fiberboard out of the way in the stairwells, and it would have been much more difficult (if not impossible) to move fallen sections of wall masonry. Finally, owing to the inherent chaos of a tragedy of this magnitude, with thousands of events going on at the same time, it is difficult to imagine how a coordinated response by rescuers could have been executed, and how survivors could have been informed in a timely manner. So it is doubtful if the presence of more stairwells, especially if far from each other, would have made that much difference. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-09-23
US	39169752	R3NNC0HQC34NF9	0880290188	500163367	Atlas of Jewish History	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Calls Germans by Name: the Nazis	Surprise: The Nazis were Germans and Austrians. In recent years, there has been a curious tendency to euphemistically substitute the political party of the Germans for their nationality, all the while retaining the ethnicities of other peoples. (Thus, \\"Nazi killers of Poles and Jews\\" makes as much sense as \\"German killers of Pilsudskyites and Bundists\\"). Gilbert's atlas unabashedly calls the Nazis for who they were: the Germans. (Of course there were exceptions, but they were just that--exceptions). For example, Gilbert refers to German concentration camps, not Nazi concentration camps. And, although this atlas is about Jews, Gilbert does not avoid mention of the fact that the Germans also murdered several millions of non-Jews. (This, of course, does not include the additional millions killed directly or indirectly by German military action).<br /><br />Gilbert's atlas is concise enough to fit on an ordinary bookshelf, yet is packed with much useful information. Maps depict many Biblical and post-Biblical events. The travels of the Apostle Paul are included. So are many \\"alternative Zions\\", where Jews were to find a new home. The history of Jews in the USA is also featured. Only one obvious error stands out: When Gilbert depicts the Bogdan Khmelnitsky (Bogdan Chmielnicki) revolt, he incorrectly states that the killers of Jews (and also Ukrainian and Polish nobility) were Polish peasants. In the main, the killers were actually Ukrainian peasants.<br /><br />Gilbert's atlas includes the experience of Jews outside of Europe and the Americas. Although certain Muslim lands offered the Jews more tolerance than Christian ones, there were also many Muslim lands in which the Jews suffered extreme persecution. This alone should refute the common claim that anti-Semitism is a product of traditional Christian teachings about Jews. In fact, from Gilbert's atlas, it is obvious that the Jews suffered from pagans long before Christianity.<br />	2005-09-20
US	39169752	R34E2V2GY1FY6	B0006EAU7S	896770758	In defence of my country (Wydawnictwa Towarzystwa im. Romana Dmowskiego)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The Other Side of Polish Antisemitism	Author Jedrzej Giertych, the father of scientist Maciej Giertych and grandfather of politician Roman Giertych, has written a powerful rebuttal to many inaccurate portrayals of Polish history. But he is no blind apologist. For example, he is critical of the way that the pre-WWII Polish government had handled the Ukrainian nationalist movement (p. 398).<br /><br />We hear a great deal about past Polish antisemitism but seldom about the conditions that had set Poles and Jews against each other. Contrary to the stereotype of Poland as a land of pogroms, Giertych points out that antisemitic violence in Russian-ruled Poland was actually of Russian origin.  After the assassination of Czar Alexander II in 1891, the Russian government had encouraged and organized anti-Jewish riots (p. 268).<br /><br />In Holocaust materials, history is commonly forced to run backwards and the prewar Jewish experience in Poland is inaccurately portrayed as a forerunner of that under Nazi German-conquered Europe. Giertych soundly rebuts this tendency. His book recounts how Poland had for many centuries been a land of tolerance, where anyone could freely practice his faith as long as loyalty to the state was exhibited. Giertych then shows that Polish opposition to Jews was a relatively recent development, and then of a political and economic nature, generally free of religious prejudice and completely unlike German racial antisemitism. The genocidal extermination of Jews was not even imagined. Roman Dmowski, vilified as an inveterate antisemite for organizing boycotts against Jewish monopolies was, for example, strongly opposed to the desecration of synagogues (p. 268). Giertych sees the Polish-Jewish conflicts as no different from other economically-driven ones (e. g., the Chinese-Malay conflicts in Malaysia, or the Italian-German conflicts in Southern Tyrol).<br /><br />After Poland had lost her independence in 1795, more and more of her Jewish population had shifted their loyalties to Poland's conquerors. The economic development of the region became concentrated among the Jews, who enjoyed the influx of German and Russian capital. Moreover, Jewish owners tended to hire Jewish workers in preference to Polish ones (p. 262). A large fraction of both local and foreign Jews came to prefer the status quo to the resurrection of an independent Poland. For example, the Jews in Prussian-ruled Poland became self-Germanized, and vehemently opposed the rebirth of Poland. The pro-Russian attitudes of eastern Polish Jews were little better. In time, more and more Poles began to see the Jews as a foreign element that was inimical to Polish interests. Other Jewish actions that tended to inflame the Poles included the pro-Russian parliamentary Jewish vote in Warsaw and Lodz (1912), and the numerous anti-Polish statements made by Jewish spokesmen in the west (e. g., Lewis Namier, Baron Rotschild, etc., p. 269) at about the time of WWI.<br /><br />It is inconceivable that the Poles would have allowed themselves to stay a de facto economic minority on their own land. Giertych sees the \\"buy Polish\\" anti-Jewish boycotts organized by Roman Dmowski as a necessary step in the economic liberation of Poland (p. 267).  As for the Jews who lost their livelihoods and had to emigrate, one must remember the many Poles who earlier had been forced to emigrate in penury as a result of Jewish economic monopolies. It had become obvious that Poland was too poor to simultaneously support a Jewish and a Polish economic engine. The only question was who would be forced to emigrate?  Giertych cites Zionist leader Alfred Nossig, who suggested in 1919 that both Poles and Jews should work together for the emigration of half of Poland's Jews (p. 280). Giertych also quotes from Zionist leader Vladimir Jabotinsky, who rejected the notion that Poles had an antisemitic spirit in the usual sense of the word, and who recognized that Polish national and economic self-interest, even when directed againstJews, was really no different from a parent's preference for her own children over that of another's offspring (p. 263).<br /><br />Giertych also addresses the cultural divide that had developed between Poles and Jews. A large fraction of Jews, including Polonized ones, were atheists. The forces of libertinism and what otherwise is called today the \\"permissive society\\" were disproportionately Jewish. In the mostly traditionalist Catholic Polish society, these tendencies stood out prominently, evoking a negative reaction from most Poles. Giertych rejects the notion that this attitude had been a form of antisemitism. Instead, Giertych sees this as a defense of the Polish national spirit. He furthermore insists that the negative Polish reaction would have been the same had the promoters of libertinism been mostly ethnic Poles.<br /><br />Giertych also tackles German revisionists, notably Austin App and Alfred de Zayas. Austin App has recycled some Nazi-era propaganda that had tried to steal Mikolaj Kopernik (Nicolaus Copernicus) from the Poles and to recast him as a German scientist. In actuality, Copernicus was ethnically Polish on his father's side, and of mixed Polish-German ancestry on his mother's side. Copernicus, like his immediate forebears and descendants, was solidly Polish linguistically, culturally, and politically. Even the name Kopernik is clearly of Polish, not German, origin. And, although it has long been refuted, Alfred de Zayas has repeated the canard that some two million Germans had perished during the expulsions of Germans from the lands awarded to Poland after WWII. Giertych shows that, among other flaws, the two million figure is solely an armchair invention resting on dubious inferences from questionable population statistics.  In rebuttal to the \\"Silesia is eternally German\\" notions, Giertych shows from church figures that large parts of Upper Silesia (and environs) had been substantially Polish, resisting the pressures of Germanization well into the 19th century. However, in an apparent effort to avoid engaging in Orwellian doublethink, Giertych rejects the argument that Silesia was owed Poland because it had once been substantially Polish. Otherwise, Indians could claim that the Americas belong to them, and must be henceforth returned. Instead, Giertych sees the Polish repossession of Silesia and environs solely as the outcome of the events and treaties of WWII.t from a parent's preference for her own children over that of another's offspring (p. 263).     Giertych also addresses the cultural divide that had developed between Poles and Jews. A large fraction of Jews, including Polonized ones, were atheists. The forces of libertinism and what otherwise is called today the \\"permissive society\\" were disproportionately Jewish. In the mostly traditionalist Catholic Polish society, these tendencies stood out prominently, evoking a negative reaction from most Poles. Giertych rejects the notion that this attitude had been a form of antisemitism. Instead, Giertych sees this as a defense of the Polish national spirit. He furthermore insists that the negative Polish reaction would have been the same had the promoters of libertinism been mostly ethnic Poles.     Giertych also tackles German revisionists, notably Austin App and Alfred de Zayas. Austin App has recycled some Nazi-era propaganda that had tried to steal Mikolaj Kopernik (Nicolaus Copernicus) from the Poles and to recast him as a German scientist. In actuality, Copernicus was ethnically Polish on his father's side, and of mixed Polish-German ancestry on his mother's side. Copernicus, like his immediate forebears and descendants, was solidly Polish linguistically, culturally, and politically. Even the name Kopernik is clearly of Polish, not German, origin. And, although it has long been refuted, Alfred de Zayas has repeated the canard that some two million Germans had perished during the expulsions of Germans from the lands awarded to Poland after WWII. Giertych shows that, among other flaws, the two million figure is solely an armchair invention resting on dubious inferences from questionable population statistics.  In rebuttal to the \\"Silesia is eternally German\\" notions, Giertych shows from church figures that large parts of Upper Silesia (and environs) had been substantially Polish, resisting the pressures of Germanization well into the 19th century. However, in an apparent effort to avoid engaging in Orwellian doublethink, Giertych rejects the argument that Silesia was owed Poland because it had once been substantially Polish. Otherwise, Indians could claim that the Americas belong to them, and must be henceforth returned. Instead, Giertych sees the Polish repossession of Silesia and environs solely as the outcome of the events and treaties of WWII.	2005-09-14
US	39169752	R2K9SGI14Y78F6	1904341292	387358350	Curie (Life &Times)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Madame Curie: Polish Patriot and Scientist	This book goes beyond discussing the scientific achievements of Marie Curie, as well as the many tragedies she had to go through in life. It also focuses on her early life as a young Polish patriot under the oppressive heel of Russian rule. The young Curie describes attending a kulig, a traditional Polish sleigh party that was recognizably an act of resistance against Russian cultural domination. As a schoolgirl, the Marie Curie would walk to Saxony Square in Warsaw and spit on the obelisk set up by the Russia tsar. When she was older, Curie attended the \\"Floating University\\", an underground academy that held secret classes in living rooms and meeting halls. Not mentioned is the fact that the \\"floating university\\" was revived after the Germans conquered Poland during WWII and abolished all higher learning for Poles. A stirring read!	2005-06-14
US	39169752	R2SVBN59TWX1ME	0571047505	794923876	Mosquito	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Fascinating Airplane	This book provides details about the WWII Mosquito. This fascinating plane was largely made out of wood, yet could more than compete with metal planes. Its designers had the foresight not to be intimidated by popular beliefs that wood is a weak and obsolete material for engineering. As a Polish-American, I appreciate the recognition of the achievement of Polish pilots in the RAF. Sharp and Bowyer (p. 1967) write: \\"Intelligent and highly disciplined, the Poles were extremely eager to learn all they could about the Mosquito.\\"	2005-06-14
US	39169752	R2P89CY8GTBOPP	B0006WHW80	819593164	The Holocaust Victims Accuse: Documents and Testimony on Jewish War Criminals	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Some Holocaust Myths Challenged. The 1933 Boycott of Nazi Germany. The Zionists. The JUDENRAETE	Rabbi Moshe Shonfeld has written a hard-hitting book, one that inadvertently undermines many of the canons of modern Holocaust education. Never one to use euphemisms for the main murderers, he always calls Nazis by their correct name-the Germans. He attributes the low levels of anti-Semitism in the Scandinavian countries not to some uniquely Scandinavian virtue of tolerance, but to the smallness of their Jewish communities (p. 14). While he does repeat stereotyped criticisms of Christians, the Vatican, etc., Shonfeld's harshest comments are directed at fellow Jews, specifically the Zionists and secular Jews.<br /><br />THE 1933 BOYCOTT ONLY HELPED RADICALIZE THE NAZIS<br /><br />Schonfeld attacks certain world Jewish organizations for what he considers unwise actions that needlessly inflamed Hitler. He depicts the 1933 boycott of German goods as a provocation against Hitler concocted by Jewish nationalists and Zionists &#34;from their safe, convenient dwellings&#34; (p. 7). In the same vein, he condemns Rabbi Stephen Wise and the World Jewish Congress in New York for their declaration of war against Germany. Schonfeld sees this as the very trigger of the Wannsee Conference, which detailed and implemented the plans for the Final Solution itself (p. 43).<br /><br />PROMINENT JEWS, AND ZIONISTS, FAIL TO AID EUROPE'S DYING JEWS<br /><br />Schonfeld repeatedly condemns Jewish organizations for failing to ameliorate the Final Solution once it actually became full-blown. He condemns Yitzchak Greenbaum for preferring a future Jewish state to the rescue of European Jewry. He attacks Nathan Schwalb for rejecting the efforts of Czech Jewry to have a sum of money paid to halt the transports of Jews to Auschwitz (pp. 26-27).  He states that the extermination of Slovakian Jews had been delayed by two years as a result of Jewish bribes (p. 77), thereby demonstrating that the German Nazis were amenable to bribery in exchange for Jewish lives. Furthermore, western Jewish organizations refused to pay the bribe that would have saved 70,000 Romanian Jews (pp. 100-101). Most interesting of all, he claims that the Germans were willing to accept bribes from Jewish organizations to spare Hungarian Jews from the gas chambers of Auschwitz, allowing them to emigrate to some other nation except Palestine (pp. 75-77). But the Zionist organizations rejected these offers, even claiming that the extermination accounts given by East European Jews were exaggerations (p. 76)! He chides the German Jewish leader Sali Mayer for refusing to accept the accounts of genocide directed against Jews because of his high regard for the Germans as a civilized people &#34;who would never do such a thing&#34; (p. 78).<br /><br />Moshe Shonfeld condemns Jewish Zionist organizations, and the World Jewish Congress, for their refusal to support the delivery of overseas food to the Jews in the ghettoes (pp. 44-46).  He argues that at least some of the food did reach the intended recipients, and rejects the notion that such aid was tantamount to breaking of the boycott against Hitler. He rejects the common argument that such aid was tantamount to an interference with the Allied war effort.<br /><br />POLISH BISHOPS HIDE PROMINENT RABBIS<br /><br />Moshe Shonfeld touches on some Polish efforts to rescue Jewish leaders (pp. 34-35) in the context of rabbis' refusal to accept deliverance while their fellow Jews were dying. He mentions the fact that the Archbishop of Warsaw offered an escape, to the bishop's palace, to rabbis Menachem Zemba, Shimson Stockhamer, and Dovid Shopirobut. A similar offer was rejected by Rabbi Y. Pinner from the bishop of Lodz.<br /><br />THE JUDENRAETE AND JEWISH GHETTO POLICE<br /><br />In common with many other writers, Schonfeld elaborates on the Jewish collaborationist police (the Jewish ghetto police) and their dealings with their fellow Jews, and doing so at a level of zeal and cruelty exceeding that of the Germans (pp. 21-22). He claims that religiousJews were absent from their ranks, and that the collaborationist Jews had a virulent hatred of religious Jews. Shonfeld, in reference to a Jewish religious teaching that forbids that some Jews be allowed to be killed so that other Jews may be spared, condemns the collaborationist actions of the JUDENRAETE (p. 120). He singles out Jewish leaders Merin and Moldetzky for their collaborationist actions that resulted in the annihilation of East Silesian Jews at a more efficient rate than at other places (p. 123). He thereby rejects the JUDENRAETE actions as justified, in terms of saving some Jews, by betraying other Jews.<br /><br />RUDOLF KASZTNER AND ADOLF EICHMANN<br /><br />Author Moshe Schonfeld elaborates on the sundry relationship between the Jewish collaborator Dr. Kastner and the Nazi German mass murderer Adolf Eichmann (pp. 66-67). Schonfeld quotes from a document that charges Kastner with knowing about the impending mass gassing of Hungarian Jews in Auschwitz, but striking a sordid deal with Eichmann for the sparing of some favored Jews in exchange for Kastner's silence. The deal included a hefty payment, which Eichmann later used to escape to Argentina.<br /><br />ABBA KOVNER A NON-HERO<br /><br />Schonfeld condemns the Jewish guerilla leader Abba Kovner for saving, from the Vilna [Wilno, Vilnius] ghetto, only a few of his chosen men, even though initially the thinking was that many young Jews would be saved, based on the notion that they were the future of the nation. Kovner is accused of callously refusing aid to various fugitive Jews who had sought his aid the forests that surrounded Vilnius (pp. 33-34).<br /><br />HOLOCAUST NON-UNIQUENESS<br /><br />Moshe Schonfeld's book has broad-based implications. For the longest time, Jewish sufferings have been given preeminence in the US in the form of Holocaust education, which is mandatory in some US states. Common arguments adduced for the virtually exclusive remembrance of the 5-6 million murdered Jews as opposed to, for example, the 2-3 million murdered Polish gentiles, are based on: 1) The presumably-unalterable Nazi priorities, 2) The presumed unique irrationality of the hatred of Jews, and 3) The presumed necessarily total annihilation of all Jewry. Shonfeld's analysis shows that, contrary to these arguments, the German Nazi actions against Jews were not such a priority, nor so uniquely irrational, nor so comprehensive, that they could not at least sometimes be reversed by the payment of bribes. Clearly, the Nazi Germans were not necessarily nor unalterably interested in the killing of every last possible Jew within their grasp.Jews were absent from their ranks, and that the collaborationist Jews had a virulent hatred of religious Jews. Shonfeld, in reference to a Jewish religious teaching that forbids that some Jews be allowed to be killed so that other Jews may be spared, condemns the collaborationist actions of the JUDENRAETE (p. 120). He singles out Jewish leaders Merin and Moldetzky for their collaborationist actions that resulted in the annihilation of East Silesian Jews at a more efficient rate than at other places (p. 123). He thereby rejects the JUDENRAETE actions as justified, in terms of saving some Jews, by betraying other Jews.<br /><br />RUDOLF KASZTNER AND ADOLF EICHMANN<br /><br />Author Moshe Schonfeld elaborates on the sundry relationship between the Jewish collaborator Dr. Kastner and the Nazi German mass murderer Adolf Eichmann (pp. 66-67). Schonfeld quotes from a document that charges Kastner with knowing about the impending mass gassing of Hungarian Jews in Auschwitz, but striking a sordid deal with Eichmann for the sparing of some favored Jews in exchange for Kastner's silence. The deal included a hefty payment, which Eichmann later used to escape to Argentina.<br /><br />ABBA KOVNER A NON-HERO<br /><br />Schonfeld condemns the Jewish guerilla leader Abba Kovner for saving, from the Vilna [Wilno, Vilnius] ghetto, only a few of his chosen men, even though initially the thinking was that many young Jews would be saved, based on the notion that they were the future of the nation. Kovner is accused of callously refusing aid to various fugitive Jews who had sought his aid the forests that surrounded Vilnius (pp. 33-34).<br /><br />HOLOCAUST NON-UNIQUENESS<br /><br />Moshe Schonfeld's book has broad-based implications. For the longest time, Jewish sufferings have been given preeminence in the US in the form of Holocaust education, which is mandatory in some US states. Common arguments adduced for the virtually exclusive remembrance of the 5-6 million murdered Jews as opposed to, for example, the 2-3 million murdered Polish gentiles, are based on: 1) The presumably-unalterable Nazi priorities, 2) The presumed unique irrationality of the hatred of Jews, and 3) The presumed necessarily total annihilation of all Jewry. Shonfeld's analysis shows that, contrary to these arguments, the German Nazi actions against Jews were not such a priority, nor so uniquely irrational, nor so comprehensive, that they could not at least sometimes be reversed by the payment of bribes. Clearly, the Nazi Germans were not necessarily nor unalterably interested in the killing of every last possible Jew within their grasp.	2005-06-07
US	39169752	R3OSKYRQV8P8F9	0965548813	755756098	Wolyn Aflame	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Untold Story of Ukrainian Nationalist Genocide on Poles	Everyone has heard of the 5-6 million Jews, but who has ever heard of the genocide directed against the Poles--by Germans, Russians, and Ukrainians? The author of this book, who personally witnessed the tragic events, has written about the attempted Ukrainian Nationalist genocide directed against the rural Poles of Wolyn. Although the events occurred over 60 years ago, this book is timely if only because of the fact that Ukrainians and Ukrainian emigres, to this day, largely refuse to acknowledge the crimes of the OUN-UPA, and even falsely try to blame this evil on the Poles.<br /><br />Wolyn had, for centuries if not millennia, been a region of mixed Polish-Ukrainian population. Wolyn had been part of Poland for centuries, but the Ukrainian nationalists wanted it as part of a future independent Ukraine. During the German occupation of the region in WWII, the fascist OUN-UPA began a campaign of agitation and forced conscription of local Ukrainians against Poles, using terror against Ukrainians who were opposed to the genocidal policies of the so-called Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA). In time, some 60,000 Wolynian Poles were murdered in the most sadistic manner. This included death by burning alive, impaling on stakes, grotesque mutilation of the body, children thrown down wells, etc.<br /><br />Ozarowski details the defensive measures taken by the Poles, often against overwhelming odds. He details the unsuccessful efforts at Stepanska Huta and the successful defended villages in such places as Przebraze and Zasmyki. He also discusses in great detail the 27th Wolynian Division of the AK (Polish Home Army), of which he was a part.<br /><br />------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------<br /><br />This work clarifies some matters related to Polish-guerrilla action, and I mention two of them.<br /><br />Owing to the fact that the Communist GL-AL bands stole from the people, some have argued that \\"all guerrilla organizations did it\\". This is not true. The Armia Krajowa (A. K.) did not steal from Poles. A. K. representatives would buy provisions from the peasants. (p. 280).<br /><br />Some Polonophobes have leveled the accusation that, whereas Polish neighbors could (supposedly) not trust their neighbors when hiding Jews, they could trust their Polish neighbors for Underground activities. This is not true. Polish Underground activity was conducted in the strictest secrecy. This became obvious when members of the Volhynian A. K. came out in the open to fight the Germans. Ozarowski comments, \\"They came as individuals and in groups, having previously been secret members of various underground outfits known only to their commanders. In Kowel everyone came to realize just how extensive the underground conspiracy had been all along. Everyone was surprised to learn that his neighbor had ALSO been a member of the conspiracy all this time and had pretended to be submissive to the Germans. Many of the railroad workers form Kowel were astonished to see their former janitor at the Kowel train station now wearing a uniform and assuming leadership as Major `Kowal'\\" (emphasis in original)(p. 151).lla organizations did it\\". This is not true. The Armia Krajowa (A. K.) did not steal from Poles. A. K. representatives would buy provisions from the peasants. (p. 280).<br /><br />Some Polonophobes have leveled the accusation that, whereas Polish neighbors could (supposedly) not trust their neighbors when hiding Jews, they could trust their Polish neighbors for Underground activities. This is not true. Polish Underground activity was conducted in the strictest secrecy. This became obvious when members of the Volhynian A. K. came out in the open to fight the Germans. Ozarowski comments, \\"They came as individuals and in groups, having previously been secret members of various underground outfits known only to their commanders. In Kowel everyone came to realize just how extensive the underground conspiracy had been all along. Everyone was surprised to learn that his neighbor had ALSO been a member of the conspiracy all this time and had pretended to be submissive to the Germans. Many of the railroad workers form Kowel were astonished to see their former janitor at the Kowel train station now wearing a uniform and assuming leadership as Major `Kowal'\\" (emphasis in original)(p. 151).	2005-06-07
US	39169752	RG3FRWSU2J2YY	0521352878	679438738	Scientific Genius: A Psychology of Science	Books	4	17	22	N	N	Scientists' Bias is Pervasive	This book focuses on the scientific method. Perhaps the most eye-catching analysis is that of scientific objectivity and tendentiousness. Simonton (p.15) writes about the dispassionate search for truth that supposedly characterizes science as follows: \\"...the bulk of the evidence suggests that few scientists are so well behaved. On the contrary, a provocative research literature has accumulated on the `confirmation bias' in human reasoning [Refs]. When faced with having to infer the principle underlying a sequence of events, people are not inclined to seek out information that contradicts a favored hypothesis but, rather, to gather the most confirmatory evidence that the circumstances will allow. Even when disconfirmatory data unexpectedly appear, they often are ignored as a minor exception to the accepted rule. Not only is there reason to believe that practicing scientists betray this confirmatory bias [Ref.], but those scientists most admired by their colleagues may also be those most dedicated to proving a cherished hypothesis or theory [Ref.]. The notion of the disinterested investigator calmly committed to pure induction and falsification is a myth [see also Ref.].	2005-04-11
US	39169752	R2UNX163GZS7F9	0521776627	328397700	The Cambridge Companion to Reformation Theology (Cambridge Companions to Religion)	Books	4	24	29	N	N	A Good Overall Overview of the Reformation	Although the Reformation is often thought of in terms of Luther and Calvin, it was much broader than that. There were many reformers in many European lands at the time, and this book discusses quite a few of them. However, a major shortcoming of this book is its failure to do more than briefly mention Jan Laski, a Polish Reformer. Although this book focuses on the Reformation, it also discusses the Roman Catholic response to the Reformation, and not only in terms of the Council of Trent.<br /><br />Even though Luther's initial conflict with the Catholic Church is often framed in terms of the manner of salvation of a Christian, this book argues that the actual conflict was primarily in terms of church authority. Otherwise, the Catholic-Protestant conflict is often seen in terms of the former promoting the authority of Tradition, and the latter promoting the authority of Scripture. But it was not as simple as that. There were some Catholic counter-reformers who sought to refute Protestant claims solely from Scripture. Conversely, some Protestant polemicists argued that the teachings of the post-apostolic Christian church (e. g., the Church fathers) actually reinforced and supported Protestant theological views. Soon, Protestants and Catholics each claimed to own the teachings of the primitive Christian church, and to accuse its opponents of heretical innovation.<br /><br />Each sided often misrepresented the others' teachings. For example, Luther's teaching of \\"faith alone\\" for salvation was misrepresented as teaching that a Christian can live any way he wants. In actuality, Luther stressed good works, but as an outcome, not condition, for salvation. Conversely, the Catholic Mass was misrepresented as re-crucifying Christ every time it was offered. In fact, it did and does no such thing.	2005-04-07
US	39169752	R3CF199RGMUS24	185984488X	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering, New Edition 2nd Edition	Books	5	47	64	N	N	Blackening Nations' Reputations for the Extortion of Money	Finkelstein is, to begin with, very critical of the notion that Jewish suffering is special and that it is deserving of special public memory. His own mother, a Holocaust survivor, opposed moral distinctions between different peoples' sufferings (p. 8). Finkelstein examines and rejects arguments advanced to support the uniqueness of the Holocaust. He finds them internally inconsistent and intellectually barren, and suggests that whenever a particular argument is refuted, a new one is advanced in its place. He scoffs at the notion that the Holocaust is beyond rational understanding or that it is uniquely evil. He shows how the current preoccupation with the Holocaust, among both Jews and gentiles, did not begin until over 20 years after WWII, and dismisses the notion that this was just a delayed reaction of the Jewish community to the trauma of the event. He points out that there is no evidence for any such delayed group reaction to trauma. Finkelstein pulls no punches in identifying the real foundation for Holocaust-uniqueness claims: UNIQUE SUFFERING CONFERS UNIQUE ENTITLEMENT (p. 47). He even sees this as a form of self-aggrandizement by certain Jews.<br /><br />Finkelstein does not see Holocaust uniqueness as a Jewish version of \\"identity politics\\" or \\"culture of victimization\\". He points to the fact that, in the US, anti-Semitism has virtually disappeared, anti-Semites are few and marginal, and that the Holocaust deniers have about as much influence as the flat Earthers. In fact, American Jews have been very successful. Finkelstein points out that American Jews' per capita income is almost double that of non-Jews (p. 32). Sixteen of the forty wealthiest Americans are Jews. Some forty percent of American Nobel Prize winners in science and economics are Jewish. So are 20% of the professors at major universities, and 40% of partners in the leading law firms in New York and Washington.<br /><br />Finkelstein discusses a number of examples of outright fraud that have crept into the memory of the Holocaust, including that of Jerzy Kosinski. A  Polish Jew who owed his very life to Polish benefactors, Kosinski turned against his rescuers by propounding lurid and mendacious tales of Poles raping and killing fugitive Jews. Predictably, the media reported all of this as fact. In fact, Kosinski's THE PAINTED BIRD became a basic Holocaust text and award-winner. Finkelstein exposes the falsehood of Kosinski's charges, and acknowledges the fact that Poles risked their lives to save that of Kosinski. He also reports that Kosinski apparently had a change of heart towards the end of his life, decrying the Holocaust Industry's exclusion of other victims of the Nazi Germans, including 2.5 million Catholic Poles. To the question of what the Poles did to save Jews, Kosinski retorted: \\"What did the Jews do to save the Poles?\\" (p. 57).<br /><br />Finkelstein traces the origins of the Holocaust Industry to the progressively more flagrant misuse of reparations monies that began from West Germany in 1952. In time, the number of \\"Holocaust survivors\\" has been bloated to a ridiculous extent (even to the inclusion of 2nd and 3rd generation of those who experienced the Holocaust). Moreover, up to now, only 15% of reparations monies have actually gone to Jewish Holocaust survivors! The rest went to Jews and Jewish organizations that never went through the Holocaust, but which have arrogated to themselves the claim that they speak for Jewish victims. Finkelstein calls this a racket. He discusses the shakedown of the Swiss, and how they paid out 1.25 billion dollars to avoid being labeled \\"anti-Semitic\\", \\"hard-hearted\\", \\"unwilling to come to terms with one's past\\", etc., even though claims of confiscated Jewish wealth in Swiss banks turned out to be almost completely baseless.<br /><br />Finkelstein touches on the anti-Polish aspects of the Holocaust Industry (p. 130-133). However, it goes far beyond efforts of still-living Jews to reacquire their prewar property, or for Poland's existing Jews to reacquire some prewar communal properties. Cmpensation-reparations demands are never satisfied, and can go as far as pressuring Poland to pay for everything that belonged to Jews before the war, even though Poland had been conquered by the Germans and had nothing to say about the seizure of Jewish property and the murder of the Jews. Of course, this would totally bankrupt Poland. But if taken this far and applied consistently and fairly, it would also mean that Poland would have to pay compensation to the Germans for lands acquired after the war, whereas the Ukraine, Byelorussia, and Lithuania would have to pay compensations to Poland for the prewar Polish lands seized by the Soviet Union. But why stop there? Would present-day Germany and Russia pay Poland compensation for all the vast amounts of Polish properties destroyed during and after the German-Soviet WWII conquest and occupation of Poland?<br /><br />The blackening of Poland's reputation is part of the manipulation of uninformed American public opinion for the extraction of compensations money from Poland, all because of a compliant mass media. At first, it was simply the preeminent position assumed by the German mass murder of 5-6 million Jews combined with the virtual disappearance of the 2-3 million Poles murdered by the Germans (including half of all educated Poles) down an Orwellian memory hole. In time, the glorification of the Danes and of Oskar Schindler contrasted with the virtual ignoring of the fact, in popular Holocaust educational materials, of Poles rescuing more Jews (as recognized at Yad Vashem) than any other nationality, and of Poles having the only large-scale underground organization for assistance to Jews (Zegota). On top of all that, there has been an additional trend of accusing the Poles of complicity in the Holocaust even though Poland was one of the few conquered nations without a collaborationist government, and Polish individuals' collaboration rates were among the lowest in German-ruled Europe. The Polonophobic tone of Holocaust materials have long made Poles suspicious that it is agenda driven. This is now openly corroborated by Finkelstein.ire their prewar property, or for Poland's existing Jews to reacquire some prewar communal properties. Cmpensation-reparations demands are never satisfied, and can go as far as pressuring Poland to pay for everything that belonged to Jews before the war, even though Poland had been conquered by the Germans and had nothing to say about the seizure of Jewish property and the murder of the Jews. Of course, this would totally bankrupt Poland. But if taken this far and applied consistently and fairly, it would also mean that Poland would have to pay compensation to the Germans for lands acquired after the war, whereas the Ukraine, Byelorussia, and Lithuania would have to pay compensations to Poland for the prewar Polish lands seized by the Soviet Union. But why stop there? Would present-day Germany and Russia pay Poland compensation for all the vast amounts of Polish properties destroyed during and after the German-Soviet WWII conquest and occupation of Poland?  <br />  <br />The blackening of Poland's reputation is part of the manipulation of uninformed American public opinion for the extraction of compensations money from Poland, all because of a compliant mass media. At first, it was simply the preeminent position assumed by the German mass murder of 5-6 million Jews combined with the virtual disappearance of the 2-3 million Poles murdered by the Germans (including half of all educated Poles) down an Orwellian memory hole. In time, the glorification of the Danes and of Oskar Schindler contrasted with the virtual ignoring of the fact, in popular Holocaust educational materials, of Poles rescuing more Jews (as recognized at Yad Vashem) than any other nationality, and of Poles having the only large-scale underground organization for assistance to Jews (Zegota). On top of all that, there has been an additional trend of accusing the Poles of complicity in the Holocaust even though Poland was one of the few conquered nations without a collaborationist government, and Polishindividuals' collaboration rates were among the lowest in German-ruled Europe. The Polonophobic tone of Holocaust materials have long made Poles suspicious that it is agenda driven. This is now openly corroborated by Finkelstein.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-04-01
US	39169752	R2ZQZ9FJI86A6	0465073794	789193097	Science Of Jurassic Park And The Lost World: Or, How To Build A Dinosaur	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The Fantasy and Hope Behind a Would-be Live Dinosaur	This book begins with a good overview of our understanding dinosaur biology. There is a description of how the notion of dinosaurs being stupid, lumbering, cold-blooded beasts has given way to the notion of them being at least partly warm-blooded. The discoveries of iridium by the Alvarez team, and how it has revolutionized our understanding of possible dinosaur extinction, is recounted.<br /><br />The authors freely acknowledge that we know little about DNA. It is frozen in mammoths, but not in dinosaurs. They also acknowledge (p. 17, 42) that the idea of useable dinosaur blood inside an insect trapped in amber is conjecture. If nothing else, the digestive enzymes in an insect's stomach would probably pulverize the DNA long before an even prompt \\"amberization\\" could immobilize them. Any dinosaur DNA would almost certainly be broken into fragments, so it would be a Herculean task using overlapping segments to attempt to recreate the dinosaur's complete genome. Moreover, if the DNA was all cleaved in the same position, reassembly would be virtually impossible. Even if reconstructed, it would be challenging to get a dinosaur DNA to work together with, say, within ostrich cell.<br /><br />However, more modest goals may be attainable in the foreseeable future. For instance, sections of dinosaur DNA may have discernable functions once implanted into the genomes of current organisms. Anything beyond that is farfetched by today's standards of knowledge.	2005-03-28
US	39169752	R1PU87K100MJKP	1403966591	996288310	Fascism and Neofascism: Critical Writings on the Radical Right in Europe (Studies in European Culture and History)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Danish-Nazi Collaboration Versus Common Holocaust Myths	This book contains numerous articles, some of which present rarely-discussed information. For instance, modern treatments of Nazism focus on the Holocaust to the neglect (if not virtual forgetting) of their other victims. But clearly, this is a relatively recent development. In their article, Fenner and Weitz (p. 4) show that, during the first 20 or so years after WWII (1945-1965), German crimes against numerous peoples were considered (including, for example, the 2-3 million Poles murdered by the Germans, including the transparently genocidal destruction of nearly half of all educated Poles), with no inordinate attention given to the 5-6 million Jews. Now, according to Fenner and Weitz, Jewish sufferings have assumed a central element of public and popular culture in the West.<br /><br />Attempts are sometimes made to link moral traditionalists in the West with Nazi attitudes towards sex. In a surprising article, Herzog demolishes this myth. He shows that, contrary to common perception, the Nazi movement was not repressive towards sex. In fact, it sneered at Christian morality much the same way that modern libertines and leftists do, and favored both premarital and extramarital sex. Attempts were made to discredit the Catholic Church by accusing priests in general of being homosexuals (sound familiar?). Much as modern feminists and other humanists, the Nazis accused Christianity of having a dislike for the human body and for showing disrespect towards women. This was supposed to be a carryover of \\"the Oriental attitude towards women.\\"<br /><br />In popular Holocaust materials, Danes are frequently honored for having saved their Jewish population by sending them across a strait to Sweden. The late columnist Ann Landers called the Danes \\"an amazing people\\". While there is no doubt that the heroism was real, pertinent details are not generally being told. Although they do not discuss this rescue itself, Christenson, Poulsen, and Smith show the astonishing degree of Danish freedom that made it all possible. After being invaded by Germany, Denmark set up a collaborationist government, as did Norway (whence the name Quisling, which has since become synonymous with collaboration).  This admittedly shielded the population from brutal German rule (p. 85) and gave the Danes considerable freedom for action. Not mentioned is the fact that this freedom also made it possible for organized Danish assistance to their tiny Jewish population. Nor is it mentioned that Danes, being Teutons, were not subject to the German racist hatred of the Slavic untermenschen (subhumans). Nor is it mentioned that the rescue of Jews remained successful only because Hitler persisted in his recognition of Swedish neutrality. (Parenthetically, this undercuts the claim to preeminent Jewish suffering. Were the death of every last possible Jew actually the highest Nazi priority as is frequently argued, Hitler would undoubtedly have ordered Sweden to return the fugitive Danish Jews under threat of attack).<br /><br />In stark contrast to the Danes, Poles, who rescued many more Jews than any other nationality (see Yad Vashem), and did so under vastly more difficult conditions than the Danes (refusal to set up a collaborationist government, no neutral country nearby, a huge Jewish population unassimilated and sealed off in urban ghettos, unspeakably brutal German conquest and rule, automatic death penalty for the slightest assistance to Jews, etc.) get virtually no recognition in popular and educational Holocaust materials for their heroic efforts and actions. Instead, every tiny act of individual Polish collaboration, no matter how relatively trivial (200-400, not 1,600, Jews killed at Jedwabne) is magnified way out of proportion, which ignores the fact that Poland had no organized collaboration forces (no Polish SS, etc.), nor collaborationist government, while Denmark had both, as did many other German-conquered nations.<br /><br />Christenson, Poulsen, and Smith break new ground by discussing just one aspect of this organized Danish collaboration with the Nazis during WWII which likewise is seldom if ever even mentioned in popular and educational Holocaust materials. They elaborate on the 12,000 Danes who volunteered for service in the Waffen SS, and debunk the claim that these voluntary servants of Hitler were criminals or other marginal elements of Danish society.  They cite the \\"fight against Communism\\" as the stated motive, but fail to mention the fact that Denmark was not even a close neighbor of the Soviet Union, whereas Poland had firsthand experience with Soviet Communist aggression (in 1920, 1939-1941, and from 1944 onwards), yet never fielded any pro-Nazi collaborationist army.  They cite the propaganda coup scored by the Nazis when Christian Peter Kryssing, \\"a high ranking and respected officer of the Danish army\\", served the Germans. In contrast, no Pole of any significant prewar status ever collaborated with the Nazis.<br /><br />Although the Waffen SS was technically a military formation, Christenson, Poulsen, and Smith recognize the fact that there was no dichotomy between the genocidal actions of differing Nazi and Nazi-collaborating forces: \\"As numerous studies of the German occupational regime in the Soviet Union have revealed, the German war at the Eastern front was a criminal undertaking. It involved plans for total destruction of the Jews and other `undesirables', deliberate starvation of civilians and POWs, mass killing of civilians under the pretext of anti-partisan combat, looting and destruction of infrastructure, industry and housing as part of the scorched earth policy, and forced recruitment for labor duty in Germany...even men in allegedly nonpolitical units such as the Frikorps Danmark were subject to Nazi indoctrination during their training (p. 93).\\"  The collaborationist Danish SS was part of Hitler's genocidal machine. It is high time that popular and educational Holocaust materials present the Danes, Poles, and others in a much more complete and objective manner.son, Poulsen, and Smith break new ground by discussing just one aspect of this organized Danish collaboration with the Nazis during WWII which likewise is seldom if ever even mentioned in popular and educational Holocaust materials. They elaborate on the 12,000 Danes who volunteered for service in the Waffen SS, and debunk the claim that these voluntary servants of Hitler were criminals or other marginal elements of Danish society.  They cite the \\"fight against Communism\\" as the stated motive, but fail to mention the fact that Denmark was not even a close neighbor of the Soviet Union, whereas Poland had firsthand experience with Soviet Communist aggression (in 1920, 1939-1941, and from 1944 onwards), yet never fielded any pro-Nazi collaborationist army.  They cite the propaganda coup scored by the Nazis when Christian Peter Kryssing, \\"a high ranking and respected officer of the Danish army\\", served the Germans. In contrast, no Pole of any significant prewar status ever collaborated with the Nazis. <br /> <br />Although the Waffen SS was technically a military formation, Christenson, Poulsen, and Smith recognize the fact that there was no dichotomy between the genocidal actions of differing Nazi and Nazi-collaborating forces: \\"As numerous studies of the German occupational regime in the Soviet Union have revealed, the German war at the Eastern front was a criminal undertaking. It involved plans for total destruction of the Jews and other `undesirables', deliberate starvation of civilians and POWs, mass killing of civilians under the pretext of anti-partisan combat, looting and destruction of infrastructure, industry and housing as part of the scorched earth policy, and forced recruitment for labor duty in Germany...even men in allegedly nonpolitical units such as the Frikorps Danmark were subject to Nazi indoctrination during their training (p. 93).\\"  The collaborationist Danish SS was part of Hitler's genocidal machine. It is high time that popular and educational Holocaust materials present the Danes, Poles, and others in a much more complete and objective manner. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-28
US	39169752	R2K6HG1ZMJ47J6	0618082328	394376277	The Holocaust in American Life	Books	4	18	28	N	N	The Preeminent Status of Jewish WWII Sufferings	Novick points out that tax money is being used to support Holocaust museums, and that emphasis on the Holocaust in American society is largely self-perpetuating, as there are thousands of full-time Holocaust professionals employed for its maintenance, transmission and dissemination. According to Novick (p.277), the closing of Holocaust institutions and the cessation of required Holocaust teaching in schools would create intolerable controversy.<br /><br />Meanwhile, tokenism aside, the sufferings and deaths of millions of non-Jews in the hands of the Germans are given scant attention. Novick, a Jew himself, strongly rejects any notion of the uniqueness of Jewish deaths, and is especially critical of the notion, as he puts it (p. 9), of: \\"Your catastrophe, unlike ours, is ordinary; unlike ours is comprehensible; unlike ours is representable.\\" Elie Wiesel has vulgarly equated the notion of expanding the Holocaust (to encompass the millions of Poles murdered by the Germans) with expanding the victims of the Crucifixion to include the two thieves executed with Jesus Christ (p. 219).<br /><br />Whose sufferings are memorialized and whose are forgotten inescapably boils down to which group has power and influence. Novick frankly writes (p. 12): \\"When a high level of concern with the Holocaust became widespread in American Jewry, it was, given the important role that Jews play in American media and opinion-making elites, not only natural, but virtually inevitable that it would spread throughout the culture at large.\\" Conversely, Novick recognizes (p. 233) that Poles and Ukrainians: \\"never had the political, cultural, or financial resources to press their case\\".<br /><br />Novick rejects the notion that the belatedness of Holocaust preeminence stemmed from a trauma-induced temporary repression of the event in Jewish thinking. At one time, it was widely believed that any preeminent position given to Jewish losses would tend to increase anti-Semitism (pp. 121-122). Now the exact opposite is argued!  Raphael Lemkin, the Polish Jew who coined the term genocide, thought of it in terms of the extermination of Poles and Russians no less than the Jews (p.100-101).  Novick cites (p. 38)  a 1944 statement from an American Jewish Committee staff memorandum , which states the following: \\"It should always be pointed our that Nazi tyranny does not discriminate between Jews and Poles.\\" (sic) How ironic is this statement in the light of subsequent thinking and policy!<br /><br />Novick could have made his case much stronger for the relative recency of Holocaust-dominated thinking by mentioning the many volumes of the TRIAL OF THE MAJOR WAR CRIMINALS (subsequently known as the Nuremberg trials). In it, there is an even-handed approach to German crimes against ALL conquered peoples, not just Jews.<br /><br />Novick is candid about the very disproportionate involvement of Jews in Communism (p. 92, 302). He also cites Rabbi Eugene Borowitz (p. 109) about the fact that most Jews are agnostics, and he himself notes that Jews tend to be much less religious than Catholics and Protestants (p. 326). Funny how Polish cardinal Hlond was (and still is) raked over the coals as an anti-Semite simply for having made such statements back in 1936.<br /><br />The relatively recent Judeocentric approach to WWII has completely reshaped our thinking. It is sobering to realize that, not so long ago, the question \\"Why didn't Poles save more Jews?\\" would have made about as much sense as \\"Why didn't Jews save more Poles?\\" (In fact, during the first 2 years of the German occupation of Poland, Germans were prone to murder Polish gentiles more frequently than Jews. In Soviet-conquered eastern Poland, many Jews, placed in high positions, were in a position to help Poles). All things considered, Novick displays a broad-based understanding of national sufferings when he discusses the Partitions of Poland and the Katyn Massacre of tens of thousands of Polish POW officers and intellectuals.<br /><br />Novick is straightforward about the fact that most gentiles acted exactly as one would expect them to act under the circumstances of ruthless foreign occupation: \\"They kept their heads down and looked out for number one\\". Poles did not protest the killing of Jews by Germans because it was a nice way to get yourself and your family shot, and to get your house burned down (p. 247). And, although he does not mention the fact that Poles rescued many more Jews than Danes, he does acknowledge the fact that the low proportion of Polish Jews saved is accounted for by the nonassimilated state of Polish Jews compared with Danish Jews and the incomparably greater German brutality over Poles than Danes.<br /><br />Novick mistakenly conflates Ukrainian collaborators with the much fewer (and unorganized) Polish ones, but does acknowledge that charges of collaboration are \\"often much too sweeping.\\" (p. 223). Pointedly, Novick repudiates Elie Wiesel's frankly bigoted insinuation that the German Nazi death camps had been built in German-occupied Poland because of the reputed attitude of Poles to Jews. It was simply economics: The least distance that the largest number of Jews would have to be transported to their deaths.<br /><br />Unfortunately, Novick does not go far enough in his analysis of Holocaust thinking. The reader must realize that it, in fact, has gone far beyond the preeminent status of the 5-6 million murdered Jews and the disappearance of the 2-3 million murdered Poles (including half of all educated Poles) down an Orwellian memory hole. Disproportionate attention has been given to the relatively small-scale Danish rescue of Jews and the acts of Oskar Schindler. In contrast, popular and educational Holocaust materials have yet to acknowledge the fact that the largest underground organization for saving Jews was the Polish Zegota. In fact, the Poles represent the nationality most honored at Yad Vashem for rescuing Jews, but one seldom sees this mentioned in popular-level Holocaust materials. It is difficult to escape the conclusion that Holocaust thinking, at least as far as materials for public consumption are concerned, has become distinctly anti-Polish.sh POW officers and intellectuals. <br />  <br />Novick is straightforward about the fact that most gentiles acted exactly as one would expect them to act under the circumstances of ruthless foreign occupation: \\"They kept their heads down and looked out for number one\\". Poles did not protest the killing of Jews by Germans because it was a nice way to get yourself and your family shot, and to get your house burned down (p. 247). And, although he does not mention the fact that Poles rescued many more Jews than Danes, he does acknowledge the fact that the low proportion of Polish Jews saved is accounted for by the nonassimilated state of Polish Jews compared with Danish Jews and the incomparably greater German brutality over Poles than Danes. <br /> <br />Novick mistakenly conflates Ukrainian collaborators with the much fewer (and unorganized) Polish ones, but does acknowledge that charges of collaboration are \\"often much too sweeping.\\" (p. 223). Pointedly, Novick repudiates Elie Wiesel's frankly bigoted insinuation that the German Nazi death camps had been built in German-occupied Poland because of the reputed attitude of Poles to Jews. It was simply economics: The least distance that the largest number of Jews would have to be transported to their deaths.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Novick does not go far enough in his analysis of Holocaust thinking. The reader must realize that it, in fact, has gone far beyond the preeminent status of the 5-6 million murdered Jews and the disappearance of the 2-3 million murdered Poles (including half of all educated Poles) down an Orwellian memory hole. Disproportionate attention has been given to the relatively small-scale Danish rescue of Jews and the acts of Oskar Schindler. In contrast, popular and educational Holocaust materials have yet to acknowledge the fact that the largest underground organization for saving Jews was the Polish Zegota. In fact, the Poles represent the nationality most honored at Yad Vashem for rescuing Jews, but one seldom sees this mentioned in popular-level Holocaust materials. It is difficult to escape the conclusion that Holocaust thinking, at least as far as materials for public consumption are concerned, has become distinctly anti-Polish. <br /> <br />	2005-03-16
US	39169752	R3JZ1CBKCU5T80	0781809010	294947340	Forgotten Holocaust: The Poles Under German Occupation, 1939-1944	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Detailed, Scholarly, Not Polish-Apologist, and Not Equating Poles with Jews	This review focuses on only a few topics in this comprehensive scholarly work, and addresses some of the distortions of other reviewers.<br /><br />Lukas consistently presents both sides of the story. For this, he has been labeled a \\"Polish nationalist\\" or \\"apologist\\" of some sort. He clearly is not. For instance, he is critical of Polish disunity in the prewar government and in the Polish Government-in-Exile. He is candid about Polish-German collaboration, and the tactical errors of the Warsaw Uprising. He is unjustifiably harsh on the Polish-Underground NSZ.<br /><br />Most amazing of all is the assertion that Lukas equates the experiences of Jews and Poles. In actuality, Lukas recognizes the fact that the Nazis targeted the Jews for immediate and total annihilation. (e. g., p. 151). In contrast, the German genocide of Poles focused on the destruction of the intelligentsia, cultural genocide, etc. The total, or near-total, extermination of the Poles was to await the end of the war (pp. 4-5), with the \\"resettlement\\" provisions of GENERALPLAN OST possibly/probably being a euphemism for this extermination. [Recall that the extermination of Jews was also disguised as \\"resettlement\\".]<br /><br />Those much-mentioned \\"Poles who would be Germanized\\" represented only 3% of the Polish population of the Reich-annexed regions. (p. 24). Furthermore, in German eyes, they were not Poles. They were Germans who had become Polonized, and would now be re-Germanized.<br /><br />The no-Polish-Quisling-because-the-Germans-never-wanted-one argument (e. g., by Jan T. Gross) is fallacious. The Germans unsuccessfully approached Prince Janusz Radziwill, and others, as prospective Quislings. (pp. 111-112). An Israeli study estimates that about 7,000 ordinary Poles collaborated with the Germans. (p. 117). [This comes out to a vanishing 1 in 4,000 ethnic Poles.] As for the szmalcowniks, there were probably no more than about 1,000 in Warsaw. (pp. 250-251).  Contrary to accusations, the Polish Underground did systematically liquidate blackmailers of Jews, and, furthermore, was largely successful in ending their plague in some geographic areas of German-occupied Poland. (p. 119).<br /><br />The number of Jews who survived in German-occupied Poland is unknown. Figures of 40,000-50,000, 100,000-120,000, and even 200,000 or 300,000 have been quoted. (p. 149). Virtually all had depended on Polish help.<br /><br />Lukas gingerly defends Bor Komorowski against the charge of his early Underground contacts with the Jews being postwar fabrications. (p. 173). Lukas' account of the scale of Polish aid to the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising itself could be greatly expanded and updated. See [[ASIN:9652293563 Two Flags: Return to the Warsaw Ghetto]].<br /><br />Some (e. g. David Engel) have accused the Polish Government-in-Exile of playing down what it knew about Jewish deaths, possibly because of anti-Semitism. Ironic to this, an unnamed British official had asserted, in December 1942, that there was \\"no reliable evidence\\" that the Germans were exterminating the Jews, and that Poles were talking TOO MUCH about Jewish deaths--in part to show that they were not anti-Semitic! (p. 160). Go figure.<br /><br />Lukas' outstanding work is only the beginning. For further, in-depth study of the little-known genocide of Poles, see the Peczkis Listmania: FORGOTTEN HOLOCAUST...ically liquidate blackmailers of Jews, and, furthermore, was largely successful in ending their plague in some geographic areas of German-occupied Poland. (p. 119).      The number of Jews who survived in German-occupied Poland is unknown. Figures of 40,000-50,000, 100,000-120,000, and even 200,000 or 300,000 have been quoted. (p. 149). Virtually all had depended on Polish help.    Lukas gingerly defends Bor Komorowski against the charge of his early Underground contacts with the Jews being postwar fabrications. (p. 173). Lukas' account of the scale of Polish aid to the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising itself could be greatly expanded and updated. See [[ASIN:9652293563 Two Flags: Return to the Warsaw Ghetto]].     Some (e. g. David Engel) have accused the Polish Government-in-Exile of playing down what it knew about Jewish deaths, possibly because of anti-Semitism. Ironic to this, an unnamed British official had asserted, in December 1942, that there was \\"no reliable evidence\\" that the Germans were exterminating the Jews, and that Poles were talking TOO MUCH about Jewish deaths--in part to show that they were not anti-Semitic! (p. 160). Go figure.     Lukas' outstanding work is only the beginning. For further, in-depth study of the little-known genocide of Poles, see the Peczkis Listmania: FORGOTTEN HOLOCAUST...	2005-03-01
US	39169752	R2825L300CUM1A	0312216807	783632251	Poland Between the Wars, 1918-1939	Books	5	9	12	N	N	An Objective and Balanced-Not Nationalistic-Account	This book has been mischaracterized as a nationalistic tome, one which attempts to blame prewar Polish minorities for all their problems. This is manifestly incorrect. Stachura never says that minorities' conflicts with Poles are all of their own making. He merely says that their steadfast enmity towards Poland, and constant rebuffing of positive Polish overtures, influenced their fate.<br /><br />There is no contradiction whatsoever between the self-chosen nonassimilated status of most Polish Jews and the fact of their overall economic dominance. Also, Jewish involvement vis a vis the Bloc of National minorities and relative to Narutowicz was hardly a free-speech matter. It was, as described by Stachura, nothing less than \\"a declaration of political warfare against the state\\" (p. 75), and one with intrusive German involvement to boot. Finally, complaints about Stachura not mentioning Sikorski's 1942 comments and the Kielce pogrom of 1946 are doubly ridiculous in that they both occurred after the stated time scope of this book (1918-1939), an elementary fact obvious from even its title. (Parenthetically, Sikorski was not the only one who contended that Poland had far too many Jews. This opinion was shared by the Zionist Vladimir Jabotinsky, among others. As for the Kielce pogrom, there is ample evidence, from Russian and Jewish sources alone, that it was a Soviet Communist staged event).<br /><br />Instead of being nationalistic, Stachura repeats the common criticism of nationalist Roman Dmowski being an anti-Semite, and one whose views, when repeated in the US, created an unfavorable reaction that had to be countered through the efforts of Ignace Jan Paderewski (p. 68). Far from trying to whitewash Poles, Stachura does not spare them from criticism [e. g., their disunity (p. 51), the slow pace of their military industrialization stemming from overconfidence following the stunning Polish victory over the Soviets in 1920 (p. 55), etc.]. Throughout his book, Stachura cites numerous sources that exhibit a diversity of viewpoints, not only pro-Polish ones. He is just as condemnatory of source materials that exhibit an adulatory attitude towards Polish figures and policies as he is towards those which are one-sidedly critical of them (e. g., Communist ones).<br /><br />A major shortcoming of Stachura's book is his inadequate treatment of the agendas behind the demonization of Poland vis a vis her minorities. He does mention the Soviet-imposed Communist puppet government's need to appear legitimate by trying to make prewar Poland as bleak as possible. However, Britain and the US also needed to belittle prewar Poland in order to rationalize their dirty, stinking doublecross of Poland at Yalta. Finally, the emergence of the Holocaust Industry has created a need to blur the distinction between prewar Poland and Nazi Germany as much as possible in the public eye, and even to create an artificial continuity between the experiences of Polish Jews in prewar Poland and their subsequent genocide in Nazi-German ruled Poland.<br /><br />Stachura depicts the Zionist leader Yitshak Gruenbaum in a very negative light. In this respect, his opinion is somewhat shared by the Jewish author Joseph Marcus, who in his SOCIAL AND POLITICAL HISTORY OF THE JEWS IN POLAND, 1919-1939, sees Gruenbaum as an unnecessarily polarizing figure in Polish-Jewish relations.<br /><br />As related by Stachura, the Jewish hostility to the Polish state took on nothing less than staggering dimensions. A \\"Jewish lobby\\" at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 had opposed the creation of the Polish state. Jewish collaboration with the Communists was extensive, and was much more significant than any Byelorussian-Communist cooperation owing to the economic and political power of the Jews. Indeed, numerous world Jewish organizations and personages spared no efforts to continually defame Poles and Poland Reading this, it sounds so familiar to what occurs today under the auspices ofHolocaust programming and Holocaust education. All we ever hear about is Polish anti-Semitism. Yet Stachura documents many specific examples of Jewish Polonophobia. For instance, bogus accounts of pograms in Poland were created and circulated, only to be almost entirely discredited later through the investigative efforts of a delegation headed by Henry Morgenthau, a Jew himself. The so-called Minorities Treaty presented a platform for Poland's allies and enemies to meddle in her internal affairs. An ironic situation developed wherein, for instance, Britain, with her global empire, dubious treatment of the Irish, and having almost no local Jewish population to deal with, used the Minorities Treaty to moralize Poland on her treatment of minorities!<br /><br />Polish anti-Semitism had been the reason given by many Jewish organizations and individuals for refusing to support the emergence of an independent Polish state. However, Stachura misses the opportunity to call the bluff on this excuse. The fact is that, if anything, czarist Russia had been far more anti-Semitic than the Poles. On the basis of this alone, Jews should have preferred Polish self-rule over continued Russian rule. As for Communism, its totalitarian and barbaric nature had, if nothing else, been well demonstrated by the Russian Revolution. The reluctance or refusal of Jewish organizations to support the independence of Poland, even after its inception, owes, in actuality, to long-term Jewish financial and economic interests in Russia (and also the other partitioning powers, Austria and Prussia).<br /><br />Stachura makes it clear that, in general, Poland was very tolerant of minorities. The Jews enjoyed a flourishing economic, cultural, and economic life unparalled in any other nation. Although there were necessary repressive acts done by Poland against her seditious minorities, they were never systematic nor continuous. Stachura could have mentioned the commutation of the death penalty against Ukrainian nationalist leaders Bandera, Lebed, and Shukevych, who had been involved in assassinations of Polish and pro-Polish Ukrainian leaders. How did they return the favor? By organizing and implementing (during the later German occupation) an unspeakably sadistic genocide of 100,000 Poles (and thousands of Ukrainians who desired good Polish-Ukrainian relations or otherwise refused to submit to the fascist dictates of the OUN-UPA leadership). Stachura's work needs to be expanded, and it is hoped that a future edition will do this.day under the auspices of Holocaust programming and Holocaust education. All we ever hear about is Polish anti-Semitism. Yet Stachura documents many specific examples of Jewish Polonophobia. For instance, bogus accounts of pograms in Poland were created and circulated, only to be almost entirely discredited later through the investigative efforts of a delegation headed by Henry Morgenthau, a Jew himself. The so-called Minorities Treaty presented a platform for Poland's allies and enemies to meddle in her internal affairs. An ironic situation developed wherein, for instance, Britain, with her global empire, dubious treatment of the Irish, and having almost no local Jewish population to deal with, used the Minorities Treaty to moralize Poland on her treatment of minorities!     <br /> <br />Polish anti-Semitism had been the reason given by many Jewish organizations and individuals for refusing to support the emergence of an independent Polish state. However, Stachura misses the opportunity to call the bluff on this excuse. The fact is that, if anything, czarist Russia had been far more anti-Semitic than the Poles. On the basis of this alone, Jews should have preferred Polish self-rule over continued Russian rule. As for Communism, its totalitarian and barbaric nature had, if nothing else, been well demonstrated by the Russian Revolution. The reluctance or refusal of Jewish organizations to support the independence of Poland, even after its inception, owes, in actuality, to long-term Jewish financial and economic interests in Russia (and also the other partitioning powers, Austria and Prussia). <br /> <br />Stachura makes it clear that, in general, Poland was very tolerant of minorities. The Jews enjoyed a flourishing economic, cultural, and economic life unparalled in any other nation. Although there were necessary repressive acts done by Poland against her seditious minorities, they were never systematic nor continuous. Stachura could have mentioned the commutation of the death penalty against Ukrainian nationalist leaders Bandera, Lebed, and Shukevych, who had been involved in assassinations of Polish and pro-Polish Ukrainian leaders. How did they return the favor? By organizing and implementing (during the later German occupation) an unspeakably sadistic genocide of 100,000 Poles (and thousands of Ukrainians who desired good Polish-Ukrainian relations or otherwise refused to submit to the fascist dictates of the OUN-UPA leadership). Stachura's work needs to be expanded, and it is hoped that a future edition will do this. <br /> <br />	2005-02-15
US	39169752	RMQHINFGVLV0P	0307277674	503118391	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	6	7	N	N	The Latest Anti-Christian Fad	<br /> <br />Fiction or not, this book is filled with reckless accusations against Christianity. The church is called misogynist and essentially conspiratorial, having a long-term agenda of suppressing women. The account of Eve's sin is mentioned as an anti-female thing. This conveniently ignores the fact that Adam is also listed in the Bible as the original sinner. All positive references to women in Scripture are conveniently ignored in this tendentious book. And strange how it is that, for a supposedly misogynist religion out to make females out to be malevolent beings, Christianity does not portray Satan as a female entity. The book also repeats long-discredited feminist myths of a onetime peaceful world under the Mother Goddess. In fact, as far back as archeology can show, violence was universal. A \\"golden age\\" of peaceful matriarchy (that was supposed to have preceded the big, bad patriarchial Christian church) never existed.  <br /> <br />The book makes transparently false and silly statements about the Gnostic \\"Gospels\\", the Biblical Canon, Constantine, the Council of Nicea, etc. In terms of historical accuracy, the book is worthless. This book is just the latest anti-Christian fad, belonging in the same genre as Allegro's THE MUSHROOM AND THE CROSS and Schoenfeld's THE PASSOVER PLOT. Finding \\"hidden messages\\" in DaVinci's works is pure fantasy, on par with Von Daniken's wacko notions (e. g., CHARIOTS OF THE GODS) of past extraterrestrial visitors to Earth that he imagines in Scripture and in ancient architecture.  <br /> <br />I am surprised that such a shoddy book could have been so acclaimed and have become a bestseller. On second thought, I am not. After all, Christianity is the only religion that can be safely maligned in this politically correct age. And knowledge of the nature and history of Christianity is almost nonexistent among both Christians and non-Christians. Many people want their ears tickled, and this is all that this book does. In fact, it is nothing but rehashed anti-Christian feminist fantasies-the same stuff that's been around since at least the 1960's. <br /> <br />	2005-02-07
US	39169752	R24OI7SRU55ZLY	0307277674	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Rehashed Anti-Christian Feminist Fantasy	Yes, I have read the book. Fiction or not, this book is filled with reckless accusations against Christianity. The church is called misogynist and essentially conspiratorial, having a long-term agenda of suppressing women. The account of Eve's sin is mentioned as an anti-female thing. This conveniently ignores the fact that Adam is also listed in the Bible as the original sinner. All positive references to women in Scripture are conveniently ignored in this tendentious book. And strange how it is that, for a supposedly misogynist religion out to make females out to be malevolent beings, Christianity does not portray Satan as a female entity. The book also repeats long-discredited feminist myths of a onetime peaceful world under the Mother Goddess. In fact, as far back as archeology can show, violence was universal. A \\"golden age\\" of peaceful matriarchy (that was supposed to have preceded the big, bad patriarchial Christian church) never existed.<br /><br />The book makes transparently false and silly statements about the Gnostic \\"Gospels\\", the Biblical Canon, Constantine, the Council of Nicea, etc. In terms of historical accuracy, the book is worthless. This book is just the latest anti-Christian fad, belonging in the same genre as Allegro's THE MUSHROOM AND THE CROSS and Schoenfeld's THE PASSOVER PLOT. Finding \\"hidden messages\\" in DaVinci's works is pure fantasy, on par with Von Daniken's wacko notions (e. g., CHARIOTS OF THE GODS) of past extraterrestrial visitors to Earth that he imagines in Scripture and in ancient architecture.<br /><br />I am surprised that such a shoddy book could have been so acclaimed and have become a bestseller. On second thought, I am not. After all, Christianity is the only religion that can be safely maligned in this politically correct age. And knowledge of the nature and history of Christianity is almost nonexistent among both Christians and non-Christians. Many people want their ears tickled, and this is all that this book does. In fact, it is nothing but rehashed anti-Christian feminist fantasies-the same stuff that's been around since at least the 1960's.nothing but rehashed anti-Christian feminist fantasies-the same stuff that's been around since at least the 1960's.	2005-02-07
US	39169752	R3GIE1W4Y21WKK	0670032840	334352306	Rising '44: The Battle for Warsaw	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Allied Weaseling, Polish Heroism and Suffering	This outstanding volume presents a great deal of information formerly unavailable in the English language. It is doubly ironic to hear criticisms that this volume does not place enough emphasis on the earlier (April 1943) Jewish Warsaw ghetto uprising in view of the fact that this book's title and main topic is the Polish Warsaw Uprising (August-October 1944). Moreover, owing to the Judeocentric approach to WWII prevalent in the west, the Jewish Uprising has been well publicized, while the Polish one is virtually unknown outside of Polish circles. For the same reason, practically no one knows about the fact that the Germans murdered 3 million non-Jewish Poles during WWII, including about half of all educated Poles. In 1941, Warsaw's Jews and Poles were each allotted a meager per capita daily ration of 184 calories (p. 90). Overall, Davies provides a good summary of the German-Soviet conquest and occupation of Poland, as well as the rarely told subsequent Soviet re-occupation.<br />Davies (p. 81) is perceptive in pointing out that prewar Polish-Jewish tensions were based primarily upon economic competition (Jewish dominance in commerce, at universities, etc.), not religious or racial reasons. In no sense were Polish Jews &quot;On the Edge of Destruction&quot;. The experiences of Polish Jews under Polish rule and then under the Germans are unworthy of even a comparison. Professor Davies was denied tenure at Stanford University as a result of Jewish pressure because he was deemed to be &quot;an apologist for Polish anti-Semitism&quot;. This book does not support this charge. For instance, Davies (p.108) criticizes prewar and interwar Poles for their generalizations of Jews as pro-Communist and anti-Polish in the same breath that he criticizes contemporary Jews for their generalizations of Poles as anti-Semites.<br />Davies points out that adequate prewar English-language accounts of Poland were readily available. Yet too many Britons and Americans preferred to live in ignorance and false stereotypes about Poles and Poland. Large numbers of westerners were conspicuously in denial about the nature of Communism and the fact of Communist atrocities. Throughout this book, Davies cites the prevalent &quot;Stalin must not be offended&quot; theme. Davies' (p. 337, 671-673) quotation of George Orwell is priceless. Orwell incisively chided British intellectuals for their slavish pro-Russian orientation.<br />In common with many other writers, Davies cites the allegedly insurmountable geopolitical advantage that the Soviets had acquired owing to the fact that they had done most of the land fighting against the Germans, while, as of mid-1944, the western Allies had barely achieved a toehold in Europe. This ignores essential facts. The western Allies had blunted the German attempts on England and Africa. Also, the Soviets had contributed very little to the air and naval war against Germany. Finally, the Soviets were very dependent on American Lend Lease Aid, which could have been judiciously dispensed to force the USSR to abandon its imperialistic designs on Eastern Europe.<br />Instead, as early as 1941, while the USSR was still on the ropes from the German attack, Molotov made it clear that the Soviets intended to keep all the territories that the USSR had conquered earlier with Germany, including eastern Poland. Churchill and Roosevelt feebly objected. Soon thereafter, one unilateral concession against Poland followed another. To add insult to injury, the Polish government in exile in London was repeatedly called intransigent, divisive of the Allied coalition, stubborn, etc., for refusing to go along with this illegal Allied weaseling. Stalin was emboldened through the western Allies' conspicuous lack of seriousness in their support of the Atlantic Charter and of Poland's rights as a sovereign nation, not to mention the First Ally of England.<br />While Churchill and Roosevelt were dilly-dallying with &quot;Uncle Joe&quot; Stalin, his minions were busy arresting, deporting, and often killing large numbers of patriotic Poles. No sooner had Polish Underground units (notably at AK units at Lwow, Wilno, and the 27th Volhynian Division) driven the Germans out in front of the Red Army, as part of Operation &quot;Tempest&quot;, than they were &quot;processed&quot; by the dreaded Soviet NKVD. Members of the British government were skeptical about Polish reports despite the fact Polish intelligence had proven, throughout the war, to be very extensive and accurate. Moreover, as discussed by Davies, the British seldom sent their own intelligence units (SOE) to verify these sobering facts for themselves. As part of the Soviet agenda of enslaving Poland, the Red Army was halted outside Warsaw in order to give the Germans almost six months to crush the Uprising and to destroy Warsaw. Thanks to the west's cowardice, 250,000 Warsaw Poles needlessly perished, and Stalin had gotten his free hand for imposing a Communist puppet state on Poland.<br />Davies reminds us of the frightfully extent of German cruelty during the Uprising. Tens of thousands of Polish civilians were rounded up and systematically murdered. No sooner had Polish field hospitals been marked with a red cross than Germans began bombing them. After evacuating the German wounded, the Hun would set fire to other field hospitals, burning alive the critically wounded Poles within them. Polish priests and nuns, offering spiritual succor and other humane services, were especially tortured and murdered. Towards the end of the Uprising, the Germans did give the insurgents combatant status as POWs, no doubt in order to set a precedent for German guerilla warfare following Germany's increasingly certain defeat. Davies could have devoted more attention to the German barbarism that followed the Uprising. About 90% of Warsaw ended up being destroyed during the war, and 30% represented the destruction that had predated the Uprising. Whereas about 25% of Warsaw had been destroyed during the Uprising itself, the Germans destroyed almost the remaining 35% after the Uprising. The Hun blew up the Royal Castle and other historic buildings (Imagine a foreign occupier maliciously dynamiting the State of Liberty, Eiffel Tower, or Buckingham Palace). They burned all of Warsaw's libraries and archives, inflicting a cultural-genocidal loss of over 3 million volumes, of which about 500,000 were irreplaceable.talin, his minions were busy arresting, deporting, and often killing large numbers of patriotic Poles. No sooner had Polish Underground units (notably at AK units at Lwow, Wilno, and the 27th Volhynian Division) driven the Germans out in front of the Red Army, as part of Operation &quot;Tempest&quot;, than they were &quot;processed&quot; by the dreaded Soviet NKVD. Members of the British government were skeptical about Polish reports despite the fact Polish intelligence had proven, throughout the war, to be very extensive and accurate. Moreover, as discussed by Davies, the British seldom sent their own intelligence units (SOE) to verify these sobering facts for themselves. As part of the Soviet agenda of enslaving Poland, the Red Army was halted outside Warsaw in order to give the Germans almost six months to crush the Uprising and to destroy Warsaw. Thanks to the west's cowardice, 250,000 Warsaw Poles needlessly perished, and Stalin had gotten his free hand for imposing a Communist puppet state on Poland.<br />Davies reminds us of the frightfully extent of German cruelty during the Uprising. Tens of thousands of Polish civilians were rounded up and systematically murdered. No sooner had Polish field hospitals been marked with a red cross than Germans began bombing them. After evacuating the German wounded, the Hun would set fire to other field hospitals, burning alive the critically wounded Poles within them. Polish priests and nuns, offering spiritual succor and other humane services, were especially tortured and murdered. Towards the end of the Uprising, the Germans did give the insurgents combatant status as POWs, no doubt in order to set a precedent for German guerilla warfare following Germany's increasingly certain defeat. Davies could have devoted more attention to the German barbarism that followed the Uprising. About 90% of Warsaw ended up being destroyed during the war, and 30% represented the destruction that had predated the Uprising. Whereas about 25%of Warsaw had been destroyed during the Uprising itself, the Germans destroyed almost the remaining 35% after the Uprising. The Hun blew up the Royal Castle and other historic buildings (Imagine a foreign occupier maliciously dynamiting the State of Liberty, Eiffel Tower, or Buckingham Palace). They burned all of Warsaw's libraries and archives, inflicting a cultural-genocidal loss of over 3 million volumes, of which about 500,000 were irreplaceable.	2004-06-15
US	39169752	R3GBZ1RJQ1AUB9	0670032719	803586072	The Cross and the Crescent: Christianity and Islam from Muhammad to the Reformation	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Presents Information Beyond the Stated Topic	While this book is about Muslim-Christian relations, it also presents some unique information. In terms of specifics, the book tabulates the Biblical references to prayer (pp. 70-71). The postures of prayer include kneeling, standing, spreading out hands, etc. Parshall notes the irony of Muslim prayer habits often being &quot;more Biblical&quot; than the often casual manner that Christians pray. Although God is much more interested in the attitude of the heart than the position of the body, Parshall's analysis provides food for thought for all who would wish to re-evaluate their approach to prayer.	2004-06-14
US	39169752	R13CT6V2HQWV9D	0967996058	849046359	Spanish Carlism and Polish Nationalism: The Borderlands of Europe in the 19th and 20th Centuries	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Spanish and Polish Nationalism: Refreshing Accuracy	Carlism was a form of Spanish Catholic traditionalism, named after the royalist Carlos, was directed against the inimical aspects of modernizing influences. One can think of it as a manifestation of Spanishness (espanolidad). It was specifically directed against the anti-Christian aspects of the French Revolution and the dethroning of God in general. Insofar as Jews had long been disproportionately involved in left wing and atheistic movements, it had a strain of anti-Semitism. Owing to the fact that Freemasonry had professed contempt for the Catholic Church, and included certain rites deemed incompatible with Christianity, the Carlists too condemned it. Not surprisingly, Carlism was strongly anti-Communist.  But capitalism was also condemned insofar as it had disrupted Spanish society. Capitalist development had driven the poor off Spanish lands, virtually imprisoning them in barrios. The formerly independent Spanish artisans had become relegated to sweat shops.<br /><br />However, neither Carlism nor its Polish counterpart had been merely &#34;anti&#34; something. They also possessed a dynamism that led to the active betterment of their respective societies. For instance, in Poland, Catholic traditionalists were responsible for the founding of religious orders that benefited the laity.  Nor is it correct to say that Catholic traditionalism implied an uncritical approach to the conduct of the Catholic hierarchy. For instance, Polish nationalist Roman Dmowski was critical of the excessive involvement of the Catholic Church in political matters. Nevertheless, both Carlism and Polish nationalism can be viewed as Maccabean-like movements launched in defense of God.<br />Carlism persisted well into the 20th century. The Spanish Civil War was and is often (falsely) portrayed as an unsuccessful early struggle of freedom against fascism. Articles in the American press that romanticize the International Brigades appear from time to time (for instance, a laudatory column several years ago by Ann Landers, who also mentioned the large-scale Jewish participation in these Brigades). The Nazi German involvement is frequently mentioned (particularly the bombing of Guernica, which killed 37 people), but not the frightful atrocities directed by the Communists against priests and nuns, which definitely claimed thousands of victims (p. 104). In actuality, the Spanish Civil War, which can properly be thought of as the most recent Carlist war, had been a war against an attempted Communist takeover.<br /><br />In recent decades, nationalism has become a dirty word, often made synonymous with fascism. Communist and other left-wing propaganda has made this connotation. During and after the process leading to the postwar imposition of the Soviet-sponsored Communist puppet state upon Poland, slurs of fascism were often directed against the legitimate Polish government in exile as well as Polish anti-Nazi and anti-Communist forces such as the AK, NSZ, and their successors. Unfortunately, this mischaracterization of past and present Polish nationalism survives to the present in the form of certain Holocaust materials and discussions.<br /><br />In actuality, even the most extreme form of Polish nationalism differed from fascism in that it respected a certain degree of civil liberties for all social groups, and its cultural chauvinism was constrained by a respect for Europe's Latin culture (p. 51). Prewar Polish nationalists such as Giertych rejected the omnipotence of the state (p. 59), and had sensed the alien character of fascism to their thinking (p. 58). The deification of the state and race, characteristic of fascism and Nazism, were explicitly rejected by Polish nationalists as forms of historical materialism (p. 52). While perhaps not fully democratic, even the most extreme Polish nationalists recognized the legality of all non-Communist parties (p. 51).<br /><br />Not mentioned is this book is the fact that the even the most extreme prewar Polishnationalists, while condoning and sometimes practicing violence against Jews, had refrained from attacking synagogues--in order to make the point that their hostility was directed against Jewish economic dominance of Poland, not against Jewish religion or Jewish people as a whole. Despite Nazi German support for the Spanish anti-Communists, the Polish nationalists never lost sight of the German threat to Poland (p. 55). It was suggested that the German involvement in the Spanish Civil had been motivated by Germany's desire to regain her former African colonies (p. 60).  At no time did even the most extreme Polish nationalists contemplate, much less support, anything resembling genocide against peoples. The book should also mention that, during the ensuing German Nazi occupation of Poland, Polish nationalists, unlike their counterparts in most other German-occupied nations, did not, apart from rare exceptions, participate in the Holocaust. Francisco Franco himself strongly opposed the German conquest of Poland (p. 90), and, with some exceptions, remained a champion of Polish freedom fighters.<br /><br />Bearing in mind that the twin phenomena of Spanish Carlism and Polish nationalism had been efforts to resist the dethroning of God, we should examine their modern counterparts. There is a cultural war going on in Poland, the US, and some other nations. It is part of a rising tide of hostility, by left wing and humanist pseudo-intellectuals, directed against the traditional family, Christian morality, Christian expression, etc. One can sense the ascendancy of consumerism, cultural and moral nihilism, and other manifestations of secularist triumphalism. In the US, the much-maligned Religious Right is fighting against the removal of God from all sectors of public life by unelected humanist judges (as rationalized by &#34;the separation of church and state&#34;, &#34;pluralism and diversity&#34;, &#34;sensitivity to non-Christians&#34;, etc.). In Poland, there is the danger of the secularists of western Europe using Poland's newfound EU membership to force the progressive atheization of Poland. Only time will tell how the cultural wars will eventually play out.practicing violence against Jews, had refrained from attacking synagogues--in order to make the point that their hostility was directed against Jewish economic dominance of Poland, not against Jewish religion or Jewish people as a whole. Despite Nazi German support for the Spanish anti-Communists, the Polish nationalists never lost sight of the German threat to Poland (p. 55). It was suggested that the German involvement in the Spanish Civil had been motivated by Germany's desire to regain her former African colonies (p. 60).  At no time did even the most extreme Polish nationalists contemplate, much less support, anything resembling genocide against peoples. The book should also mention that, during the ensuing German Nazi occupation of Poland, Polish nationalists, unlike their counterparts in most other German-occupied nations, did not, apart from rare exceptions, participate in the Holocaust. Francisco Franco himself strongly opposed the German conquest of Poland (p. 90), and, with some exceptions, remained a champion of Polish freedom fighters.  Bearing in mind that the twin phenomena of Spanish Carlism and Polish nationalism had been efforts to resist the dethroning of God, we should examine their modern counterparts. There is a cultural war going on in Poland, the US, and some other nations. It is part of a rising tide of hostility, by left wing and humanist pseudo-intellectuals, directed against the traditional family, Christian morality, Christian expression, etc. One can sense the ascendancy of consumerism, cultural and moral nihilism, and other manifestations of secularist triumphalism. In the US, the much-maligned Religious Right is fighting against the removal of God from all sectors of public life by unelected humanist judges (as rationalized by &#34;the separation of church and state&#34;, &#34;pluralism and diversity&#34;, &#34;sensitivity to non-Christians&#34;, etc.). In Poland, there is the danger of the secularists of western Europe using Poland'snewfound EU membership to force the progressive atheization of Poland. Only time will tell how the cultural wars will eventually play out.	2004-06-03
US	39169752	R385SZT8TULN8H	0268008493	882657304	Death in the Forest: Story of the Katyn Forest Massacre	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Anatomy of a Little-Known Atrocity	This book, though now somewhat dated, provides a good summary of the murder of tens of thousands of Polish POW officers by the Soviet secret police (NKVD) in April 1940. These Poles, the flower of Polish society, had been captured by the Soviets after the joint Soviet-German conquest of Poland (September-October 1939). After Nazi Germany unexpectedly attacked its erstwhile Soviet ally in June 1941, the Soviets ostensibly had switched to the Polish side. Some, but by no means all, of Polish prisoners and exiles were released from Soviet prisons and gulags. The conspicuous absence of the previously captured Polish officers became obvious. The Polish government-in-exile at London never got a straight answer about their fate. In fact, Stalin made absurd lies about their whereabouts (\\"They must have all escaped to China\\"). The west never called Stalin for his transparent mendacity.<br />When the invading Germans brought the atrocity to light in 1943, the Polish-government-in-exile requested the Red Cross to investigate. At once, Stalin blamed the Germans and accused the Poles of having fallen for German propaganda. He then conveniently used this unexpected turn of events as an excuse for severing ties with the rightful Polish government-embodied in the government-in-exile-in favor of a puppet Communist government that Stalin had previously hand picked. All this time, Churchill and especially Roosevelt were not particularly interested in the truth about Katyn. To the contrary, blame was placed on the victims (Poles) for being too emotional, too unwise, too chauvinistic, etc., for pressing their case.<br />In the end, Poland was betrayed, and the truth about Katyn was suppressed in Communist-ruled Poland. Not until the fall of Communism did the truth finally come out. In 1990, the Soviet Union finally admitted its guilt for the crime of Katyn.  Of course, Katyn is symbolic of Soviet conduct towards Poland. While there were tens of thousands of victims at Katyn and related sites of murder, the total number of Polish victims of Soviet aggression exceed one million. Unfortunately, very few westerners know about this, or of the two million Polish gentiles who fell victim to the Germans.d sites of murder, the total number of Polish victims of Soviet aggression exceed one million. Unfortunately, very few westerners know about this, or of the two million Polish gentiles who fell victim to the Germans.	2004-05-20
US	39169752	R1QPIHTIQCL5JB	0394444272	360348849	Radical Right: Report on John Birch Society and Its Allies	Books	1	15	23	N	N	A Timely Primer on Left-Wing Smear Tactics	Reading this book is an exercise in d&eacute;j&agrave; vu. Author Benjamin Epstein, in 1967, used exactly the same techniques to smear the John Birch Society (JBS) as today's left-wingers use to smear the Religious Right. One favorite technique is to call conservative groups extremist and un-American, and Epstein does not disappoint us in this regard. Then there is the usual attempt to associate conservative groups with the Nazis. In this regard, he has a whole chapter on \\"The John Birchers and Anti-Semitism\\". Using carefully selected anecdotes, he tries to impugn the entire organization. But facts are facts. The John Birch Society had many Jewish members, and never unilaterally condemned any racial or religious group. Epstein, and other left-wingers who think like him, should be ashamed of themselves for their innuendo against those with whom they disagree.	2004-05-20
US	39169752	R1PWKA5K566EDN	0553256696	393857282	The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Lesson in Christ's Unbounded Forgiveness	This classic work touches on so many feelings and thoughts. For me, the most interesting part was the one where she came across the SS man who had been at Ravensbruck (p. 238). Hatred and revenge came to Corrie's heart. She could not bring herself to shake his hand. She realized that she could not forgive him in her own power, and so she prayerfully asked for the Lord's forgiveness to flow through her. At once, her hatred melted away and was replaced by overwhelming love. She realized that the Lord, who commands us to love our enemies, also gives us the means to do this.	2004-05-18
US	39169752	R239UWM8VAA7JS	0785261958	484106469	High Calling: The Courageous Life and Faith of Space Shuttle Columbia Commander Rick Husband	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Recounts the Columbia Tragedy Historically and Personally	This book provides both an account of the Columbia breakup in February 2003 as well as Rick Husband's wife and childrens' reaction to the tragic loss of their husband and father. The book begins with the family expectantly waiting for Columbia to land, then sensing that something is wrong based on the behavior of the people near the landing site. We then learn of Rick's life, and how the family's faith in Jesus Christ had been so important in their lives. We also learn how Evelyn Husband had to tell her children that their father had tragically died.	2004-05-18
US	39169752	R9GC9X5KSW8F1	0967996023	823058566	Poland's Transformation: A Work in Progress	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A Broad overview of Recent Polish History. Features European Union, Property Restitution, etc.	I address some of the major themes of this volume:<br /><br />THE FALL OF COMMUNISM: SOME IMPLICATIONS<br /><br />In this anthology, Wojciech Roszkowski recounts how former US President Reagan had been a friend of freedom and friend of Poland. How diametrically opposite was Reagan from Roosevelt, who habitually dismissed the Poles as an irritating nuisance and who cultivated a hear-no-evil-see-no-evil mindset towards the Soviets! Author John Radzilowski reviews the Polish Revolution that began with the election of John Paul II, as well as the underappreciated Polish entrepreneurial acumen that circumvented the stifling Communist policies, and subsequently expanded after 1989. One of the ironies of the Soviet yoke had been the They pretend to pay us, and we pretend to work economic farce.<br /><br />Historian Marek Jan Chodakiewicz, in one of his articles, provides an excellent summary of Polish history from 1918 to the present. It is interesting to learn that, during the first years of Soviet-imposed and western-acquiesced Communist rule (1944-1956), Polish history ignored the contributions of the AK and NSZ (pp. 236-238). Reminiscent of the approach that later became virtually universal in the western world, Jewish actions under the Nazis were glorified while non-Communist Polish ones were either denigrated or more commonly swept under the rug. In this light, it is doubly ironic to hear complaints about current Polish education being excessively Polonocentric.<br /><br />In looking towards the future, John Radzilowski (pp. 216-217) stresses the need for all Soviet archives to be opened, all Soviet mass graves to be identified, and all artwork stolen from Poland to be returned. Radzilowski makes a perceptive point about the role reversal that took place between the early 17th and late 20th centuries: During the former, it was superpower Poland versus weak Russia. Were it that way today! Todays talk among Russians about Russia being between empires is not exactly encouraging.<br /><br />POLAND IN THE EUROPEAN UNION<br /><br />Author A. E. Dick Howard compares Polish fears, of being bought out by wealthier neighbors, with Westerners fears of cheap Polish labor. This parallelism is dubious, as western nations have much greater capabilities for dealing with cheap Polish labor (The Mexicans of Europe) than Poles have for resisting buy-outs. In fact, Western European nations are now reluctant to hire cheap Polish labor.<br /><br />In common with other proponents of the EU, Jerzy Holzer justifies Polands EU membership by claiming that, without it, Poland would be isolated. I beg to differ. Poland can always form political, economic, and cultural relationships on her own terms, not according to the dictates of some bureaucrat in Brussels or Berlin. Holzer paints the EU as an organization whose power is diffused, whose values are pluralistic, and (unlike the situation that would exist if Poland wasnt a member) where Poland has a voice. The reality is rather different. Power in the EU is disproportionately German, secularist, and left wing. What good is it that Poland has a voice when this voice can so easily be drowned out or disregarded by powerful political and economic interests? And what realistic options does Poland have to leave the EU if her membership proves excessively corrosive to her sovereignty?<br /><br />Some authors in this volume touch on the role of Germany and the EU. [The reader should realize that there are amazing parallels between the Third Reich and the European Unioneffectively the Fourth Reich. Please click on, and read my detailed review, of [[ASIN:0316882968 The Tainted Source: Undemocratic Origins of the European Idea]] ].<br /><br />Fundamental questions need to be answered. Why was Germany one of the main shakers and movers in getting Poland into the EU? To what degree will Germanys pre-eminent position in the EU enable her to gradually impose herwill on Poland? It is said that German revanchism was and is a marginal phenomenon. But will it always be thus? The revival of interest in Expellees is not an encouraging sign. Neither is what looks like the recent attempt by Germans to transform their grandparents from the perpetrators to the victims of Nazism. The re-emergence of German sorrow over losses from Allied bombing is disturbingly reminiscent of the German selective memory and self-pity directed at the Versailles accords. Eventually, selective memory and self-pity changed to vindictiveness, and vindictiveness became expressed as renewed aggression.<br /><br />Left-wing ideologues have always relied on a top-down approach to impose their will upon the people. In the US, this has taken the form of unelected judges abandoning their constitutional role of interpreting the Constitution in favor of ruling from the bench and disregarding established rights (e. g. private gun ownership) while inventing new human rights out of thin air. International organizations (e. g. the UN) have also been used for this purpose. I do not share Pope John Paul IIs optimism about Poland being able to Christianize the EU. Much more likely, the reverse will happen. What is to prevent the secularists that dominate the EU from using Polands membership to force her to legalize all prenatal infanticide (abortion) and same-sex marriage, and to silence traditionalist voices such as Radio Maria? Commonly repeated Orwellian language could always be used as a cover (evolving standards of internationally-recognized human rights, reproductive rights, sexual minorities, protecting the vulnerable from hate speech, etc.). The final question to ponder in the light of topics covered by this book is the following: To what extent is Polands membership in the EU a new Targowica, wherein current Polish leaders have sold Polish sovereignty in exchange for personal benefit?<br /><br />PROPERTY RESTITUTION AND ITS COMPLEXITY<br /><br />The question of property settlements, raised by Marek Jan Chodakiewicz and Dan Currell, is quite detailed. It is complicated by the fact that the Germans (Nazis) expropriated the properties of Jews and Poles, and the Communists took up these expropriated properties, and expropriated additional properties. In addition, much property has been destroyed or greatly modified, and has changed hands a number of times. Finally, how will the value of restituted property be assessed, and on what basis? (p. 177).<br /><br />The nobility confined their attempted restitution, of their onetime estates, to only those properties that were still owned by the government. (p. 172). Former estates now owned by the peasantry were left alone.<br /><br />The following salient issue is very timely, All debates concerning restitution of property to the rightful owners and legal successors who currently do not hold Polish citizenship boil down to this: To return property to any foreigner would create a precedent that in turn would trigger a flood of similar demands by millions of Germans[In addition] It would be unacceptable, say, if Germans could claim against Poland but Poles removed from the Eastern Borderlands [KRESY] could not claim against the countries who took over that territory. (p. 182).<br /><br />This article says little about the most onerous property restitution issue of allthe claims of the Holocaust Industry upon Poland. For the longest time, Holocaust films have painted such a uniformly inaccurate negative portrayal of Polish wartime conduct that many Poles have concluded that there is an agenda to sway uninformed western public opinion through the blackening of Polands reputation. As also pointed out by the courageous Jewish author Norman Finkelstein, the real issue is money. There are Jewish groups going as far as attempting to eventually force Poland to pay for everything that once belonged to Polish Jews, even though, by law, private property passes to the state when there are no heirs, and German Holocaust reparations payments are supposed to cover Jewish property losses as well as, symbolically, the incalculable loss of Jewish lives. To what extent can these, and other groups with similar intentions, use the EU as leverage against Poland?l, is quite detailed. It is complicated by the fact that the Germans (Nazis) expropriated the properties of Jews and Poles, and the Communists took up these expropriated properties, and expropriated additional properties. In addition, much property has been destroyed or greatly modified, and has changed hands a number of times. Finally, how will the value of restituted property be assessed, and on what basis? (p. 177).  The nobility confined their attempted restitution, of their onetime estates, to only those properties that were still owned by the government. (p. 172). Former estates now owned by the peasantry were left alone.  The following salient issue is very timely, All debates concerning restitution of property to the rightful owners and legal successors who currently do not hold Polish citizenship boil down to this: To return property to any foreigner would create a precedent that in turn would trigger a flood of similar demands by millions of Germans[In addition] It would be unacceptable, say, if Germans could claim against Poland but Poles removed from the Eastern Borderlands [KRESY] could not claim against the countries who took over that territory. (p. 182).  This article says little about the most onerous property restitution issue of allthe claims of the Holocaust Industry upon Poland. For the longest time, Holocaust films have painted such a uniformly inaccurate negative portrayal of Polish wartime conduct that many Poles have concluded that there is an agenda to sway uninformed western public opinion through the blackening of Polands reputation. As also pointed out by the courageous Jewish author Norman Finkelstein, the real issue is money. There are Jewish groups going as far as attempting to eventually force Poland to pay for everything that once belonged to Polish Jews, even though, by law, private property passes to the state when there are no heirs, and German Holocaust reparations payments are supposed to cover Jewish property losses as well as, symbolically, the incalculable loss of Jewish lives. To what extent can these, and other groups with similar intentions, use the EU as leverage against Poland?	2004-05-14
US	39169752	R1EADTTNN777WC	9027932395	641957592	Social and Political History of the Jews in Poland 1919-1939 (New Babylon: Studies in the Social Sciences)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A Rational Analysis of Prewar Polish Anti-Semitism. Jewish Economic Privileges in Poland	Jewish scholar Joseph Marcus eschews the knee-jerk anti-Polish generalizations that typify material on this subject in favor of a thorough examination of the Jewish situation prior to Polish independence (1870-1918) and in preWWII Poland (1918-1939). It soon becomes obvious that all the indignities and injustices that Polish Jews experienced occurred within the broader context of overall Polish tolerance in the face of considerable development of Jewish economic life. Ironically, Polish anti-Semitism festered and grew primarily because Polish Jews had been so successful in the first place-actually and perceptively at Polish expense.<br /><br />SELF-PERPETUATING NATURE OF INEQUITIES<br /><br />Marcus notes that Poland, under foreign rule, had missed the Industrial Revolution. He claims that what little industrial infrastructure Poland had acquired by the late 19th century had been almost entirely established and owned by Jews. Pointedly, Marcus (p. 94) recognizes its slight benefits for Poland right up to WWI.  Jewish entrepreneurship tended to stay within extended families (pp. 92-93), thus reinforcing its self-perpetuating, Pole-disenfranchising, monopolistic character. Early industrialization tended to be very exploitive of working people, so there were minimal &#34;trickle down&#34; benefits for individual Poles.<br /><br />EXAMPLES OF JEWISH MONOPOLIES<br /><br />The sugar industry had been almost entirely Jewish until 1914 (p. 87). Jews, who constituted only 10% of Poland's population, accounted for 70% of licenses (p. 327) to perform business in industry and commerce (early 1920's, central Poland).  Jews controlled about 40% of industry and commerce (p. 327) in the Polish urban economy (1926-1934). In 1935, most of Warsaw's 48 banks were Jewish (p. 109). Just before the outbreak of WWII (1938-1939), 55% of the Poland's chemical industry was Jewish-owned (p. 115), as were 70% of the textile and food industries (p. 113, 116). The garment and shoe industries remained entirely Jewish. In Polish universities (1929), Jews constituted 42% of its graduates (p. 67).<br /><br />JEWS REMAIN BETTER OFF THAN POLES<br /><br />We frequently hear that Poland's Jews were &#34;desperately poor.&#34; This is a half-truth. In addition, poor relative to whom? Although there was wide disparity between rich and poor Jews, the overall Jewish per capita income was more than 40% greater than that of Poles (1929; p. 41).<br /><br />THE BIG-POWER/JEWISH SYMBIOSIS<br /><br />One can comprehend how Poles came to think that &#34;Jews are the real rulers of Poland&#34; and that &#34;Jews are getting rich on the backs of Poles&#34;. Moreover, the bulk of preWWI manufactured products went to Russia (p. 13, 100) and other foreign rulers, contributing to the impression of a Jewish-foreign bond acting against Polish interests. The rather tepid Jewish support for Polish independence in 1918, a fact not mentioned by Markus, further reinforced this notion. However, Polish anti-Semitism was more words than substance, as it NEVER developed to the point of seriously challenging the Jews' dominant status. (For example, most Polish consumers disregarded calls to boycott Jewish traders; p. 245).<br /><br />WHY ENTREPRENEURIALLY-INCLINED POLES LAGGED BEHIND<br /><br />The Jews have a long history of commercial activity, and undoubtedly the entrepreneurial spirit had developed much earlier and more strongly among Jews than Poles. However, Marcus' portrayal of Jewish economic dominance as the default outcome of Polish ineptitude (&#34;a static, feudal society disinterested in modernization&#34;, p. 95, 97) overlooks essential facts. The most active members of Polish society, those most capable of rivaling the pioneering Jewish entrepreneurs, had been killed, imprisoned, and exiled in the wake of the failed insurrections of 1830 and 1863 against Russian rule. (In fact, exiled Poles played a significant role in the early industrialization of parts of Siberia, the New World, etc.)  Marcus' quotations of Poles hostile to progress ignore the fact that such attitudes were also common in societies that no one would consider stagnant. For instance, Victorian England, the very leader of the Industrial Revolution, had its own &#34;nostalgic medievalism&#34; as well as the Luddite and similar movements. The dislike of railroads by Polish farmers paralleled that of cowboys and ranchers in the American West.<br /><br />Marcus states that Polish aristocrats despised economic activity, but often became very successful businessmen after emigration (p. 6). Polish petty traders, &#34;disdainful of trade&#34;, actually increased in numbers in the 1930's at a rate greater than the disappearance of Jewish ones (pp. 62-63). Clearly, the mythical &#34;Polish distaste for commerce&#34; had largely been a displaced hostility actually directed at the overwhelming preoccupation of Poland's economical niche by Jews.<br /><br />WHY DISCRIMINATION AGAINST JEWS<br /><br />Unlike the US, Poland never claimed to be a pluralistic society, and the needs of the majority took precedence over that of minorities in the event of conflicting interests. Having just recovered their independence after 123 years, the Poles were especially sensitive to such conflicts. The positions of Dmowski and the Endeks, professedly upholding Polish interests rather than resisting minorities' rights per se, must be understood in this light.<br /><br />In the US, affirmative action is framed in terms of the expansion of opportunities for nonwhites rather than racist discrimination against whites. In Poland, affirmative action (using modern parlance) was likewise framed in terms of the expansion of opportunities for Poles in Jewish-dominated institutions rather than anti-Semitic discrimination against Jews. Interestingly, some influential Jews (Grunbaum, Jabotinsky; p. 230) accepted this nuance. Poland's affirmative action took several forms, including taxation, hiring of Polish government workers, and the much-maligned numerus clausus at universities. Significantly, in the 1920's, there were no pogroms (p. 355), and there was no political pressure for Jews to emigrate (p. 391). All this changed in the 1930's, in the wake of the Great Depression. It is patently incorrect to speak of economic growth equalizing opportunities for Poles, as the Jews, owing to their previously acquired advantages, got the lion's share of further economic growth. Furthermore, after the Great Depression, the &#34;economic pie&#34; actually shrunk, reversing earlier economic growth.<br /><br />POLES AND JEWS: NO SIMPLE BLACK-AND-WHITE DIALECTIC<br /><br />Marcus finds fault in both sides: &#34;The Poles refused to accept the Jews, but the Jews did not want to be fully accepted (p. 327)&#34; He criticizes Jewish leaders for deepening Polish-Jewish conflicts (p. 302), and for not forging a closer relationship with the philosemitic Pilsudski regime (p. 327). He faults American Jews for not even minimally supporting Polish Jews, notably in regards to significant emigration to Palestine.  The &#34;fantastic&#34; Beck-Jabotinsky plan, for this reason, had no change of even a minimal degree if success (pp. 398-401).e also common in societies that no one would consider stagnant. For instance, Victorian England, the very leader of the Industrial Revolution, had its own &#34;nostalgic medievalism&#34; as well as the Luddite and similar movements. The dislike of railroads by Polish farmers paralleled that of cowboys and ranchers in the American West.   Marcus states that Polish aristocrats despised economic activity, but often became very successful businessmen after emigration (p. 6). Polish petty traders, &#34;disdainful of trade&#34;, actually increased in numbers in the 1930's at a rate greater than the disappearance of Jewish ones (pp. 62-63). Clearly, the mythical &#34;Polish distaste for commerce&#34; had largely been a displaced hostility actually directed at the overwhelming preoccupation of Poland's economical niche by Jews.  WHY DISCRIMINATION AGAINST JEWS  Unlike the US, Poland never claimed to be a pluralistic society, and the needs of the majority took precedence over that of minorities in the event of conflicting interests. Having just recovered their independence after 123 years, the Poles were especially sensitive to such conflicts. The positions of Dmowski and the Endeks, professedly upholding Polish interests rather than resisting minorities' rights per se, must be understood in this light.  In the US, affirmative action is framed in terms of the expansion of opportunities for nonwhites rather than racist discrimination against whites. In Poland, affirmative action (using modern parlance) was likewise framed in terms of the expansion of opportunities for Poles in Jewish-dominated institutions rather than anti-Semitic discrimination against Jews. Interestingly, some influential Jews (Grunbaum, Jabotinsky; p. 230) accepted this nuance. Poland's affirmative action took several forms, including taxation, hiring of Polish government workers, and the much-maligned numerus clausus at universities. Significantly, in the 1920's, there were no pogroms (p. 355), and therewas no political pressure for Jews to emigrate (p. 391). All this changed in the 1930's, in the wake of the Great Depression. It is patently incorrect to speak of economic growth equalizing opportunities for Poles, as the Jews, owing to their previously acquired advantages, got the lion's share of further economic growth. Furthermore, after the Great Depression, the &#34;economic pie&#34; actually shrunk, reversing earlier economic growth.  POLES AND JEWS: NO SIMPLE BLACK-AND-WHITE DIALECTIC  Marcus finds fault in both sides: &#34;The Poles refused to accept the Jews, but the Jews did not want to be fully accepted (p. 327)&#34; He criticizes Jewish leaders for deepening Polish-Jewish conflicts (p. 302), and for not forging a closer relationship with the philosemitic Pilsudski regime (p. 327). He faults American Jews for not even minimally supporting Polish Jews, notably in regards to significant emigration to Palestine.  The &#34;fantastic&#34; Beck-Jabotinsky plan, for this reason, had no change of even a minimal degree if success (pp. 398-401).	2004-05-07
US	39169752	R4GFNQR8M5FHS	0691009546	68868795	The Politics of Retribution in Europe	Books	2	36	61	N	N	Combines Facts and Gross Mischaracterizations. Also See First Comment	Mention of the killings of Jews in postwar Hungary (Judt, p. 321) needs further elaboration, as it refutes the common claim that this happened only in postwar Poland. The two articles by Jan T. Gross detract considerably from the remaining ones. The title of this review has an intentional double meaning, as Gross shows us the depths of convoluted reasoning that Polonophobes willingly go through to unfairly blame Poles for not aiding more Jews. More Poles are honored at Yad Vashem for saving Jews than any other nationality. Paulsson (SECRET CITY) has shown that, at least for Warsaw's Jews, the limiting factor in Jewish survival was the infrequency of Jews fleeing the ghettoes. It was NOT Polish &#34;inaction&#34;. Nor was it the rate of Polish betrayal of fugitive Jews. Had more Jews sought Polish help, more Jews would have been saved.<br /><br />THE STANDARD, CANNED ANTI-POLISH INNUENDO<br /><br />Gross cites some indicators of the &#34;diffuse hostility of Poles to Jews' and then, without any evidence, jumps to the conclusion that this made Poles disinclined to help Jews. In fact, the acknowledged anti-Semitic beliefs of many Polish rescuers of Jews argue for the opposite. The long history of considerable Jewish disloyalty to Poland, the most recent instance of which was the large-scale Jewish-Soviet collaboration against Poles (Gross' attempts to minimize it notwithstanding) was a major cause of Polish hostility to Jews.<br /><br />Not done yet, Jan Gross would have us believe that, since Poles already defied the German-imposed death penalty in numerous ways, they could just as easily have defied it by saving many more Jews--had they only wanted to. But his equating of various risky behaviors carrying the death penalty is transparently ridiculous, and he, being from Poland, should know better (unless, of course, he has discarded all semblance of objectivity). Gross disingenuously cites Polish incurrence of the death penalty through considerable &#34;black marketeering&#34;. Common sense teaches that it is incomparably easier to hide contraband food than to hide (and feed) a living fugitive Jewish human being. The same holds for livestock slaughtered without German authorization, firearms, radios, and other verboten objects. Assuredly, the Germans directed far greater attention to fugitive Jews than to Polish &#34;black marketers&#34;. Also, Gross overlooks the fact that German officials could often be bribed to spare from death a Pole who was caught &#34;black marketeering&#34;, etc., but seldom for helping a Jew.<br />Gross also falsely conflates the risk of Polish participation in the Underground with that of hiding Jews. In actuality, successful participation in the Underground required one to live an inconspicuous double life that was in some ways the opposite of the overt risky behaviors necessary to save Jews. Numerous Polish guerillas nevertheless fell into German hands.  Gross also exaggerates the significance of Poles covering up for each other. Contrary to Gross' selectively quoted anecdotes, membership in the Underground was a closely-guarded secret. Even close neighbors often had no inkling of each other's involvement in the Underground until they both came out in open warfare during Operation Burza (Tempest) during the closing months of the German occupation.<br /><br />Despite significant efforts by the Underground to hide them, some 50% of all educated Poles were found and murdered by the Germans. Hiding a fugitive Jew from the Germans was far harder than hiding a fugitive Pole, as most Polish Jews had easily recognizable characteristics, and didn't blend readily into Polish society. Gross also ignores the fact that all Polish Underground activity was carefully weighed for maximum military benefit for the cost in terms of German reprisals. More extensive assistance to Jews would have triggered commensurate German action against Poles, and excessive incitement of German terror, resulting from any Underground action(s), would have discredited the Underground in the eyes of the Polish population.<br /><br />BEGGING THE QUESTION<br /><br />Gross engages in blatant circular reasoning when he (selectively) cites some Polish rescuers of Jews who claim not to have been intimidated by the death penalty in order to &#34;prove&#34; its unimportance in the rescue of Jews. That's like going to a convention of blue-car owners, and, examining the cars parked there, arguing that all US cars are blue. Most absurd of all is Gross' mention of the Warsaw Uprising as evidence of the irrelevance of the death penalty in informing Polish conduct. In actuality, the Uprising was planned to eject the Germans within a few days, with minimal casualties, just prior to the arrival of the Red Army. No one could have foreseen the Soviet betrayal and ensuing 63-day agony, the deaths by combat and murder of a quarter million Poles, and subsequent destruction of Warsaw by vindictive Germans.<br /><br />NO POLISH QUISLING GOVERNMENT<br /><br />Gross takes a cheap shot at Polish heroism by falsely asserting that the absence of a collaborationist government in Poland was only due to Germans unwillingness to have one. That is patently FALSE. [See first comment]. Nor is it correct that Poles eschewed organized collaboration because of the brutality of German conduct against them. Other Slavic untermenschen were treated little better, yet some of them formed organized collaborationist units.<br /><br />JAN T. GROSS AND HIS SELF-REFUTING POLONOPHOBIC REASONING<br /><br />Ironically and unwittingly, Gross undermines two canons of conventional Holocaust thinking: The one that belittles Polish suffering (e. g. &#34;collateral damage&#34;), and the one that insinuates that Poles implicitly led quasi-normal lives (&#34;spectators&#34; of the Jewish catastrophe). According to Gross, Poles could never have survived on the meager food rations allowed by the Germans (pp. 118-119; whence the Polish &#34;black marketeering&#34;). Moreover, German killing of Poles was so indiscriminate and widespread that Poles obedient to German dictates were little safer than violators. Sounds like Polish and Jewish victimization, on a per capita basis, was much less different than commonly portrayed!  In any case, how can Poles be blamed for not saving more Jews when Poles themselves faced a desperate shortage of food, and were otherwise necessarily preoccupied with their OWN physical survival under the German occupation?t circular reasoning when he (selectively) cites some Polish rescuers of Jews who claim not to have been intimidated by the death penalty in order to \\"prove\\" its unimportance in the rescue of Jews. That's like going to a convention of blue-car owners, and, examining the cars parked there, arguing that all US cars are blue. Most absurd of all is Gross' mention of the Warsaw Uprising as evidence of the irrelevance of the death penalty in informing Polish conduct. In actuality, the Uprising was planned to eject the Germans within a few days, with minimal casualties, just prior to the arrival of the Red Army. No one could have foreseen the Soviet betrayal and ensuing 63-day agony, the deaths by combat and murder of a quarter million Poles, and subsequent destruction of Warsaw by vindictive Germans.<BR> <BR>Gross takes a cheap shot at Polish heroism by falsely asserting that the absence of a collaborationist government in Poland was only due to Germans unwillingness. In actuality, Prince Janusz Radziwill and several other semi-prominent Poles were approached by the Germans as prospective Quislings for a (...) Polish puppet state, but they all refused (Lukas. 1986. THE FORGOTTEN HOLOCAUST, pp. 111-113). (Nor is it correct that Poles eschewed organized collaboration because of the brutality of German conduct against them. Other Slavic untermenschen were treated little better, yet some of them formed organized collaborationist units). <br />Ironically and unwittingly, Gross undermines two canons of conventional Holocaust thinking: The one that belittles Polish suffering (e. g. \\"collateral damage\\"), and the one that insinuates that Poles implicitly led quasi-normal lives (\\"spectators\\" of the Jewish catastrophe). According to Gross, Poles could never have survived on the meager food rations allowed by the Germans (pp. 118-119; whence the Polish \\"black marketeering\\"). Moreover, German killing of Poles was so indiscriminate and widespread that Poles obedient to German dictateswere little safer than violators. Sounds like Polish and Jewish victimization, on a per capita basis, was much less different than commonly portrayed!  In any case, how can Poles be blamed for not saving more Jews when Poles themselves faced a desperate shortage of food, and were otherwise necessarily preoccupied with their OWN physical survival under the German occupation?	2004-04-26
US	39169752	RDF1KUFFZCB4T	0345469585	134472547	The New Sugar Busters! Cut Sugar to Trim Fat	Books	4	39	44	N	N	Of Value, But Atkins is Much More Systematic	This book focuses on the problems caused by excessive consumption of refined carbohydrates, especially sugar. A graph shows the steep increase in the western consumption of refined sugar in recent decades. There are other helpful graphs and data also included.  The Pima Indians are cited. Their rate of diabetes increased by some 50% when they switched from the native fiber-rich corn to the modern refined fiber-free corn.<br />Unlike Atkins, the authors suggest that a large-scale reduction in carbohydrate intake is not necessary to cause weight loss, so long as the carbohydrates have a low glycemic impact. In my case, this was true. I lost 56 pounds on the Atkins diet without ever formally going into Atkin's Induction Phase (less than 20 grams of ANY type of metabolizeable carbohydrate intake per day). My addiction to sugary junk foods broke relatively easily. I found that, in my case, I could usually lose 1-3 pounds per week just by eliminating all refined carb products and cutting down on metabolizeable carb products to below about 40 grams per day. But the Atkins approach may be necessary for some people. Their metabolism may not switch from glycolysis to lipolysis without cutting back on metabolizeable carb products to below 20 grams daily, or even less. In addition, some people may not be able to break their cravings for sugary products without going into Induction for at least a while. Therefore, one can conclude that this Sugar Busters book may work for some people but not others. Atkins is clearly more detailed and systematic in his approach than this book.<br />After the initial weight loss, the Atkins approach and the Sugar Busters approach agree. Whatever carbohydrates consumed should be of the low-glycemic, high-fiber type. Emphasis should be placed on low-glycemic vegetables, nuts, and whole-grain products.	2004-04-21
US	39169752	R2WAV58AIN4308	0691113068	177815816	The Neighbors Respond: The Controversy over the Jedwabne Massacre in Poland	Books	3	75	132	N	N	Jedwabne's Jewish Victims: Rushing to Judgment on Poland. Unilateral Polish Guilt STILL Not Proved	Preface: Before reading this book and my review of it, the reader should read the Peczkis review of the IPN (Instytut Pamieci Narodowej) Commission and what has been said, in the media, about it \\"proving Jan T. Gross right\\" about unilateral Polish guilt at Jedwabne. Please click on a scholarly analysis of the IPN investigation,[[ASIN:0880335548 The Massacre in Jedwabne, July 10, 1941: Before, During, After]], and then, to read my actual review of the IPN Proceedings themselves, please go to the first Comment therein.<br />----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------<br />My review is based on a Judeorealist approach to the events. This rejects the extremes of anti-Semitism and philo-Semitism.<br /><br />One common but nonsensical theme in this Michlic and Polonsky anthology is the one about Poles being too conceited or too imbued with their heroism and victimization to face unpleasant facts about their history. In fact, Polish history freely acknowledges its dark chapters (e. g. Targowica). Polish WWII accounts often mention ignoble Polish conduct. Polish historical icons are subject to re-evaluation (e. g. the wisdom (?) of the Warsaw Uprising). Poles do recognize their character flaws (e. g. disunity).  However, acceptance of unpleasant truths and the acceptance of unpleasant falsehoods are two different things.<br /><br />The real reasons for Poles \\"defending their national honor\\" and resisting Gross' sensationalism include: 1) The long history of defamatory claims against Poland, 2) The exultation of Jewish suffering and virtual ignoring of Polish suffering, 3) The increasing conflation of Nazi German action with that of Christians and Poles, 4) The selective attention to anti-Semitism if it is Polish, 5) The lightning-fast embrace of Gross by the western media, and 6) The possible agenda-driven nature of tendencies #1-#5. As an example of  #1, recall the widely heralded 1918 Polish pogroms, most of which turned out to be unfounded upon independent analysis. In recent decades, one inaccurate Polonophobic Holocaust material has followed another. Apropos to #2, complaints about Polish schools teaching a Polonocentric view of WWII ignore the fact that the rest of the world gets the Judeocentric view. Practically everyone worldwide, certain Muslim regions excepted, knows of the 6 million Jews, while the 3 million Poles are all but forgotten. As for #3. Christian anti-Semitism (e. g. the blood libel, \\"Christ killers\\", etc.) has existed for 2,000 years without ever once morphing into the eliminationist anti-Semitism characteristic of the secularist ideology of Nazism. Yet the Church continues to be held responsible for the Holocaust. Any attempt at comparing the systematic murder of 5-6 million Jews with some other murderous event is called an act of relativizing the Holocaust. But we are told that the (supposedly) willing killing of even 1,600 Jews, a drop in the ocean compared with 5-6 million by the Germans, now makes Poland a participant in the Holocaust. Talk about relativizing the Holocaust!<br /><br />Judging by the volume of Jewish attention and anger, one could almost conclude that the Holocaust had been a Polish crime. Goldhagen's HITLER'S WILLING EXECUTIONERS is the exception that proves the rule. Placing blame for the Holocaust squarely where it belongs-on the Germans--it drew much Jewish criticism for implying collective German guilt. Far less Jewish effort is made to individualize Polish behavior. In Holocaust films, \\"good Germans\\" are incomparably more common than \\"good Poles\\". There are few if any Holocaust films about the Vichy French or the Danish SS of \\"those heroic Danes\\". Poles must always be the bad guys. As for #4, the search for Polish anti-Semitism under every stone contrasts with the relatively mild Jewish reaction to certain US black leaders who make vile anti-Semitic remarks worthy of Streicher and Goebbels. #5 needs no comment, and #6 requires elaboration beyond the book's cursory mention of infantile beliefs in \\"world Jewish conspiracies\\" and of Norman Finkelstein's work. There are in fact Jewish groups attempting to force Poland to pay for everything that once belonged to Polish Jews, even though German Holocaust reparations payments are supposed to cover Jewish property losses as well as the incalculable loss of Jewish lives.<br /><br />Harsh prewar Polish statements on the overlordship of Jews (mentioned by Ana Bikont) ignore the fact that Poland's Jews, at 10% of the population, owned some 40% of Polish wealth. To polarize matters further, nascent Polish entrepreneurs faced considerable difficulty in competing against their long-established Jewish counterparts. In identifying the main source of Polish animosities against Jews, Strzembosz gives an eye-opening account of the earlier Jewish-Soviet collaboration. However, Strzembosz doesn't mention the long-term disproportionate Jewish involvement in Communism. Moreover, a large fraction of Polish Jews had always cast its lot with Poland's enemies (well back into the 19th century). Michnik's attempt to make something of the fact that modern Poles live in formerly Jewish houses overlooks the fact that Poles also live in Polish victims' former homes. Also, owing to forced territorial changes, Ukrainians live in formerly Polish homes while Poles live in formerly German homes.<br /><br />Neo-Stalinist Jan T. Gross' attempt to discount recently filed testimonies (pp. 251-252; ones that tend to implicate the Germans) is especially ironic. In the US, eyewitness recollections given decades after the events have stood up in court as a major ground for the conviction of long-incognito Nazi war criminals (e. g., Frank Walus of Chicago).<br /><br />We are told that Polish culpability at Jedwabne is established regardless of the degree of German leadership. I beg pardon. The law has always recognized the differing degrees of culpability of the chief perpetrator and the accomplice in a crime. Moreover, a coerced accomplice may be totally absolved of culpability. It is silly to suggest that Poles were free of coercion since there was no cordon of Germans surrounding Jedwabne (p. 182) and/or because Hermann Schaper's Gestapo unit supposedly wasn't there at the time. Surely the cruelties of the Germans were well known, along with certain knowledge of the fact that any large German unit could arrive in short order to wreak terror on Jedwabne's Poles for any act of disobedience. And even if Gross is right that there were \\"only\\" 10-12 armed Germans at Jedwabne on the fateful day (pp. 251-252), and they \\"only\\" stood in the background without pointing their guns at the Poles, it would have been enough to cow the Poles into the obedient roundup and possible killing of Jews. Surely it does not take a large armed force to control a group of unarmed civilians of a defeated nation! In any case, it is obvious that no one (including the Polish Commission) has proven consensual Polish involvement at beyond a reasonable doubt, and it is high time that various publications stop pretending that Polish culpability at Jedwabne is established fact.e book's cursory mention of infantile beliefs in \\"world Jewish conspiracies\\" and of Norman Finkelstein's work. There are in fact Jewish groups attempting to force Poland to pay for everything that once belonged to Polish Jews, even though German Holocaust reparations payments are supposed to cover Jewish property losses as well as the incalculable loss of Jewish lives.    Harsh prewar Polish statements on the overlordship of Jews (mentioned by Ana Bikont) ignore the fact that Poland's Jews, at 10% of the population, owned some 40% of Polish wealth. To polarize matters further, nascent Polish entrepreneurs faced considerable difficulty in competing against their long-established Jewish counterparts. In identifying the main source of Polish animosities against Jews, Strzembosz gives an eye-opening account of the earlier Jewish-Soviet collaboration. However, Strzembosz doesn't mention the long-term disproportionate Jewish involvement in Communism. Moreover, a large fraction of Polish Jews had always cast its lot with Poland's enemies (well back into the 19th century). Michnik's attempt to make something of the fact that modern Poles live in formerly Jewish houses overlooks the fact that Poles also live in Polish victims' former homes. Also, owing to forced territorial changes, Ukrainians live in formerly Polish homes while Poles live in formerly German homes.    Neo-Stalinist Jan T. Gross' attempt to discount recently filed testimonies (pp. 251-252; ones that tend to implicate the Germans) is especially ironic. In the US, eyewitness recollections given decades after the events have stood up in court as a major ground for the conviction of long-incognito Nazi war criminals (e. g., Frank Walus of Chicago).    We are told that Polish culpability at Jedwabne is established regardless of the degree of German leadership. I beg pardon. The law has always recognized the differing degrees of culpability of the chief perpetrator and the accomplice in a crime. Moreover, a coercedaccomplice may be totally absolved of culpability. It is silly to suggest that Poles were free of coercion since there was no cordon of Germans surrounding Jedwabne (p. 182) and/or because Hermann Schaper's Gestapo unit supposedly wasn't there at the time. Surely the cruelties of the Germans were well known, along with certain knowledge of the fact that any large German unit could arrive in short order to wreak terror on Jedwabne's Poles for any act of disobedience. And even if Gross is right that there were \\"only\\" 10-12 armed Germans at Jedwabne on the fateful day (pp. 251-252), and they \\"only\\" stood in the background without pointing their guns at the Poles, it would have been enough to cow the Poles into the obedient roundup and possible killing of Jews. Surely it does not take a large armed force to control a group of unarmed civilians of a defeated nation! In any case, it is obvious that no one (including the Polish Commission) has proven consensual Polish involvement at beyond a reasonable doubt, and it is high time that various publications stop pretending that Polish culpability at Jedwabne is established fact.	2004-04-20
US	39169752	R2R95950L73SO7	0375411976	324687820	A Question of Honor: The Kosciuszko Squadron: Forgotten Heroes of World War II	Books	5	64	67	N	N	Non-Polish Recognition of Polish Achievements and Fate. Has Some Incorrect Information on Tangential Topics	Olson and Cloud provide a broad overview of Polish history. As if to prove that Polish heroism is not the product of Polish self-flattery, the authors cite numerous prominent non-Polish personages to support their contentions. The progressive aspects of Polish society are attested by the democratic May 3, 1791 Constitution, the freeing of slaves by Kosciuszko but not Thomas Jefferson (p. 23), and the granting of women's suffrage in Poland before the USA (pp. 39-40).<br /><br />POLES, NOT BRITS, BREAK THE NAZI ENIGMA CODE. AND MORE<br /><br />Gordon Welchman, one of Ultra's top cryptographers, acknowledges that, without the Poles' breaking of the &#34;invincible&#34; German Enigma code, British efforts would never have gotten off the ground (p. 39). Numerous British military and political figures are cited who recognized the skill and effectiveness of Polish pilots. Pointedly, Ronald Kellett, Air Chief Marshall Frederick Rosier, British air minister Sir Archibald Sinclair, and Sir Hugh Dowding all state that (p. 163), without Polish help, the RAF would have lost the Battle of Britain! British parliamentarian Sir Douglas Savory is quoted as saying that Polish sabotage of German transports to the eastern front had contributed greatly to the collapse of the German offensive (p. 278).  Field Marshall Viscount Alanbrooke (p. 374) asserted the indispensability of Anders' army in the Allied advance through Italy.<br /><br />WWII MYTHS ABOUT POLES<br /><br />Several anti-Polish myths are refuted, including the tale of Polish cavalry charging German tanks and the Polish Air Force being promptly destroyed (p. 71). The long-lived caricature of Poles as an emotional and ungovernable people is shown to have originated from Poland's conquerors two centuries ago (p. 24). One hears frequent accusations of the Polish underground having been motivated by anti-Semitism for not supplying the Jewish Warsaw ghetto fighters (April 1943) with more than a few tens of guns. The authors implicitly demolish this charge by demonstrating the desperate shortage of arms that beset Polish guerillas as late as the ill-fated Warsaw Uprising (August-October 1944). Specifically, only 28 of the promised 301 Allied supply airdrops (October 1943-March 1944) were ever made (p. 285), largely to avoid offending Stalin. The underground forces of Greece, Yugoslavia, and France each received 10-20 times the arms airdropped on Poland (p. 283).<br /><br />POLISH ANTI-SEMITISM: THE USUAL ONE-SIDEDNESS<br /><br />Stereotyped comments about prewar Polish anti-Semitism are made (p. 41) without adequate historical context. Reference to prewar Polish discriminatory policies against Jews neglects the magnitude of Jewish economic dominance. At 10% of the prewar Polish population, Jews owned over 40% of Poland's wealth, and were comparably over-represented at universities. The prewar economic boycotts and numerus clausus at universities were, using modern parlance, a form of affirmative action designed to get more Polish gentiles, recently emergent from peasant backwardness aggravated by 123 years of foreign rule, into Jewish-dominated institutions. Olson and Cloud recognize (p. 41) that Poland's Jews were disproportionately leftist and pro-Soviet.<br /><br />WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED AT JEDWABNE?<br /><br />Unfortunately, the accusation of Poles killing hundreds of Jews at Jedwabne (p. 204) is uncritically accepted.  The weight of evidence implicates the Germans as the perpetrators of this atrocity. The Poles were actually relegated to a compelled subsidiary role (perhaps 40 Poles, certainly not &#34;half the town&#34;). The Poles were forced to round up and guard the Jews. Whether the Poles were involved in the actual torching of the Jew-filled barn, consensually or not, has not been established by convincing evidence. (See the 2015 comments below).<br /><br />THE FORGOTTEN HOLOCAUST OF ETHNIC POLES<br /><br />Although almost every non-Pole knows about the 6 million Jews, very few know about the 3 million Poles, including upwards of half of educated Poles, who were murdered by the Germans and Soviets during the war. These losses took three decades to heal (p. 408). The Katyn massacre of tens of thousands of Polish officer POWS is highlighted. Sir Owen O'Malley, having comprehended the Soviet murderous action, was very critical of the ensuing British whitewash (pp. 268-269). Even Joseph Goebbels recognized the fact that the Poles had received a brushoff, by the British and Americans, as if the Poles were the enemies (p. 271).  Roosevelt displayed a callous disinterest in Soviet crimes. Air Marshall John Slessor, indignant over the cold-blooded Soviet betrayal of the Warsaw Uprising that alone had cost over 200,000 Polish lives, chided anyone who still trusted Stalin (p. 347). Lord Vansittart and George Orwell also supported Poland's cause (p. 341).<br /><br />POLAND BETRAYED BY HER &#34;ALLIES&#34;<br /><br />The authors spend much time discussing the dirty stinking doublecross at Yalta. George Kennan (p. 369) called the Yalta communique &#34;the shabbiest sort of equivocation...&#34; To add insult to injury, far too many Britons and Americans adopted a &#34;blame the victim&#34; mentality in accusing the Poles of being chauvinistic and otherwise spoilers of the Soviet-western alliance. However, US ambassador Arthur Bliss Lane resigned to protest the Truman administration's lukewarm reaction to the farcical postwar &#34;free election&#34; in Soviet-occupied Poland (p. 405). The Poles were not even allowed to participate in the postwar victory parade in London. Ten members of the British Parliament protested this gross indignity (p. 5), as did Air Marshall Philip Joubert de Ferte (p. 398.<br /><br />IMPLICATIONS FOR TODAY<br /><br />Poles can learn several lessons from their bitter experiences. One is to be leery of allies' loyalty. Another is to never agree to anything without a specific, ironclad commitment to reciprocity. [One thinks of Sikorski allowing himself to be pressured into signing (p. 222) a pact with the Soviets on July 30, 1941, scarcely a month after the German attack on the USSR, without Stalin being required to recognize Poland's prewar eastern border. This was the beginning of the end of Polish postwar sovereignty that eventually ended at Yalta]. Never again should Poles be fooled or badgered into silence, as they notably had been by Roosevelt (pp. 261-262). A major factor in the shabby treatment of Poland has always been the almost universal ignorance of Poland by British and American politicians, and the general public. Though much easier said than done, Poles must do a much better job of &#34;selling themselves&#34; to non-Poles, especially to those in influential positions. For example, the Scot Lord Dunglass (pp. 379-380) fiercely defended Poland before the Parliament, thanks to earlier Polish friendship.ermans and Soviets during the war. These losses took three decades to heal (p. 408). The Katyn massacre of tens of thousands of Polish officer POWS is highlighted. Sir Owen O'Malley, having comprehended the Soviet murderous action, was very critical of the ensuing British whitewash (pp. 268-269). Even Joseph Goebbels recognized the fact that the Poles had received a brushoff, by the British and Americans, as if the Poles were the enemies (p. 271).  Roosevelt displayed a callous disinterest in Soviet crimes. Air Marshall John Slessor, indignant over the cold-blooded Soviet betrayal of the Warsaw Uprising that alone had cost over 200,000 Polish lives, chided anyone who still trusted Stalin (p. 347). Lord Vansittart and George Orwell also supported Poland's cause (p. 341).  POLAND BETRAYED BY HER &#34;ALLIES&#34;  The authors spend much time discussing the dirty stinking doublecross at Yalta. George Kennan (p. 369) called the Yalta communique &#34;the shabbiest sort of equivocation...&#34; To add insult to injury, far too many Britons and Americans adopted a &#34;blame the victim&#34; mentality in accusing the Poles of being chauvinistic and otherwise spoilers of the Soviet-western alliance. However, US ambassador Arthur Bliss Lane resigned to protest the Truman administration's lukewarm reaction to the farcical postwar &#34;free election&#34; in Soviet-occupied Poland (p. 405). The Poles were not even allowed to participate in the postwar victory parade in London. Ten members of the British Parliament protested this gross indignity (p. 5), as did Air Marshall Philip Joubert de Ferte (p. 398.  IMPLICATIONS FOR TODAY  Poles can learn several lessons from their bitter experiences. One is to be leery of allies' loyalty. Another is to never agree to anything without a specific, ironclad commitment to reciprocity. [One thinks of Sikorski allowing himself to be pressured into signing (p. 222) a pact with the Soviets on July 30, 1941, scarcely a month after the German attackon the USSR, without Stalin being required to recognize Poland's prewar eastern border. This was the beginning of the end of Polish postwar sovereignty that eventually ended at Yalta]. Never again should Poles be fooled or badgered into silence, as they notably had been by Roosevelt (pp. 261-262). A major factor in the shabby treatment of Poland has always been the almost universal ignorance of Poland by British and American politicians, and the general public. Though much easier said than done, Poles must do a much better job of &#34;selling themselves&#34; to non-Poles, especially to those in influential positions. For example, the Scot Lord Dunglass (pp. 379-380) fiercely defended Poland before the Parliament, thanks to earlier Polish friendship.	2004-04-01
US	39169752	R19DLC7AHW9EVE	0300095465	23678787	Secret City: The Hidden Jews of Warsaw, 1940-1945	Books	4	32	40	N	N	Debunks Some Anti-Polish Stereotypes, But Parrots Others	Paulsson mixes highly original and very unoriginal thinking. He uses quantitative approaches, backed by simple statistics, in order to avoid the selective quoting of anecdotes to support predetermined conclusions. He also factors what he calls \\"the dog did not bark\\" situations (where only atypical events were recorded).<br />Further development needs to be made of the theme, based on quotes from Germans (p. 240) that German hatred of Poles was natural, whereas German hatred for Jews was \\"according to orders\\". If accurate, it undercuts the special victim status that many Jews claim relative to Poles, as it underlines the eventual genocidal intentions that Germans had for Poles. Parenthetically, the sentiments are probably mutual, which helps explain why Jewish hostility towards Poles appears, to this day, to be much more common and intense than Jewish hostility towards Germans.<br />The belittling of Polish aid to Jews, typical of Holocaust materials and discussions, evaporates in the face of Paulsson's analysis, which indicates an unexpectedly high 7%-9% Polish participation rate in the substantial aid to Jews. Pointedly, this figure would be even higher had 1) More Jews fled the ghetto (p. 35, 248), 2) There been no death penalty for aiding Jews, and 3) The privations of Aryan Warsaw had not been so severe (p. 248). Oft-repeated insinuations that Polish indifference and/or betrayals (see below) had been THE limiting factors of Jewish survival are clearly incorrect and inflammatory, and must be withdrawn.<br />We keep hearing of fugitive Jews as having almost zero chance of survival owing to numerous fanatically anti-Semitic Poles determined that not a single Jew escape the Holocaust. By contrast, Paulsson estimates that 6 in 7 fugitive Warsaw Jews were NOT betrayed. Furthermore, he proves that most Polish blackmailers (szmalcowniki) just wanted money and that very few of them actually turned Jews in to the Germans. Moreover, the szmalcowniki comprised only 0.4% of Warsaw's Polish population. Poles who would actually murder Jews or turn them in occurred at a rate of one individual per many thousands (probably little different from the Polish-on-Polish fatal betrayal rate).<br />The gravitation of szmalcowniki to fugitive Jews (p. 162), rather than simply a manifestation of anti-Semitism, is readily explicable by blackmailers' natural preference for vulnerable targets. Also, Paulsson's claim that nearly all szmalcowniki were ethnic Poles is contradicted by Yitzhak Zuckerman, who, in his memoir, reported being accosted by Jewish szmalcowniki about as often as Polish ones.<br />The oft-repeated charge of the AK (Polish underground army) killing Jews is examined by Paulsson and, at least for the Warsaw Uprising, shown to be a very marginal phenomenon.  Some 100 Jews were killed out of over 15,000 fugitive Jews. Less than 100 and probably less than 50 AK soldiers perpetrated the killings, a drop in the bucket of 42,000 armed men. In fact, one potential \\"rotten apple\\" (Stykowski's unit) is alone allegedly responsible for 23 Jewish deaths. Moreover, the Jewish deaths all occurred under unclear circumstances, and at least some of the killings were for legitimate reasons. Contrary to Paulsson's comments, Jewish espionage on behalf of the Germans, and enemy forces masquerading as AK units, were definitely real. So was Jewish banditry directed against Poles. Finally, the armed conflict between the patriotic AK and the Communist AL (the latter largely Jewish), incompletely submerged by their \\"alliance\\" during the Uprising, is not even mentioned.<br />Unfortunately, Paulsson cheapens his seminal work by lapsing into the simplistic generalizations that typify books on this subject. The customary reference to prewar Polish discriminatory policies against Jews, job-creating properties of Jewish entrepreneurship notwithstanding, neglects the magnitude of Jewish economic dominance. At 10% of the prewar Polish population, Jews owned over 40% ofPoland's wealth, and were comparably over-represented at universities. The prewar economic boycotts and numerus clausus at universities were, using modern parlance, a form of affirmative action designed to get more Polish gentiles, recently emergent from peasant backwardness aggravated by 123 years of foreign rule, into Jewish-dominated institutions.<br />As usual, Cardinal Hlond's 1936 statement about Jews being \\"freethinkers, vanguards of atheism and Bolshevism\\" is presented unanalyzed. Rejection of the religious aspects of one's heritage, often with concomitant involvement in radical political-social movements, has always been much more common among Jews than Poles, and this was keenly felt in the mostly religious Polish society. Also, don't Hlond's sentiments find parallels to the opinions of many Orthodox Jews towards secularized Jews, notably in modern-day Israel?<br />Paulsson's almost obsessive focus on church teachings (e. g. \\"Christ killers\\") overlooks the virtual universality of religious prejudice of pre-ecumenical times. How many Jews, based partly on Talmudic teachings, looked down at Christians as deluded worshippers of a mere Bastard, and of three gods? Ditto for anecdotes of individual Poles regarding \\"deserved\\" Jewish suffering. Invoking Divine displeasure has always been a common response to tragic events. Remember Job's \\"friends\\"? Didn't some rabbis (e. g. Eliezer Schach) also suggest that the Holocaust was God's punishment for Jewish sins (e. g., for having become \\"too Christianized\\", insufficiently Zionistic, etc.)?  As for some individual Poles found rejoicing at Jewish deaths, the sword cut both ways. Certain Jews, Polish and not, had rejoiced at Poland's tragic fate in 1939.<br />All the while, Paulsson completely misses the mark about the true source of Polish animosities towards Jews. He cites several anecdotal reports of Poles who regarded Jews as Poland's enemies. Contrary to his claim, neither church teachings nor prewar attitudes had been the primary root of these animosities. It was, instead, the large fraction of Polish Jews who had collaborated, in 1939-1941, with the Soviet invaders of eastern Poland, helping send hundreds of thousands of Poles to Siberia. Consequently, as is evident from some Polish statements that Paulsson quotes, more surviving Jews translated into more servants of the Russian Communists, a polemic that, unfortunately, proved prophetic in the immediate postwar years (1944-1947). Overall, though, Paulsson's work is a major step forward, and I trust that he will eventually acquire a more balanced view of mutual Polish-Jewish antagonisms.40% of Poland's wealth, and were comparably over-represented at universities. The prewar economic boycotts and numerus clausus at universities were, using modern parlance, a form of affirmative action designed to get more Polish gentiles, recently emergent from peasant backwardness aggravated by 123 years of foreign rule, into Jewish-dominated institutions.<br />As usual, Cardinal Hlond's 1936 statement about Jews being \\"freethinkers, vanguards of atheism and Bolshevism\\" is presented unanalyzed. Rejection of the religious aspects of one's heritage, often with concomitant involvement in radical political-social movements, has always been much more common among Jews than Poles, and this was keenly felt in the mostly religious Polish society. Also, don't Hlond's sentiments find parallels to the opinions of many Orthodox Jews towards secularized Jews, notably in modern-day Israel?<br />Paulsson's almost obsessive focus on church teachings (e. g. \\"Christ killers\\") overlooks the virtual universality of religious prejudice of pre-ecumenical times. How many Jews, based partly on Talmudic teachings, looked down at Christians as deluded worshippers of a mere Bastard, and of three gods? Ditto for anecdotes of individual Poles regarding \\"deserved\\" Jewish suffering. Invoking Divine displeasure has always been a common response to tragic events. Remember Job's \\"friends\\"? Didn't some rabbis (e. g. Eliezer Schach) also suggest that the Holocaust was God's punishment for Jewish sins (e. g., for having become \\"too Christianized\\", insufficiently Zionistic, etc.)?  As for some individual Poles found rejoicing at Jewish deaths, the sword cut both ways. Certain Jews, Polish and not, had rejoiced at Poland's tragic fate in 1939. <br />All the while, Paulsson completely misses the mark about the true source of Polish animosities towards Jews. He cites several anecdotal reports of Poles who regarded Jews as Poland's enemies. Contrary to his claim, neither church teachings nor prewar attitudes had been the primary root of these animosities. It was, instead, the large fraction of Polish Jews who had collaborated, in 1939-1941, with the Soviet invaders of eastern Poland, helping send hundreds of thousands of Poles to Siberia. Consequently, as is evident from some Polish statements that Paulsson quotes, more surviving Jews translated into more servants of the Russian Communists, a polemic that, unfortunately, proved prophetic in the immediate postwar years (1944-1947). Overall, though, Paulsson's work is a major step forward, and I trust that he will eventually acquire a more balanced view of mutual Polish-Jewish antagonisms.	2004-04-01
US	39169752	R2XF5CS953XTIE	0300095570	42334197	The Destruction of the European Jews, 3 Volume Set  (Third Edition)	Books	5	58	75	N	N	A Good Overall Compilation of Holocaust Information	This three-volume 2003 edition summarizes a broad selection of data. It arrives at 5.1 million for the Jews killed during the Holocaust. This death toll is also subdivided by year of death, by European nationality of the Jewish victims, and by fate (extermination camp followed by cremation in a crematorium or pyre, open-air shooting and burial, etc.). This work also contains a list of Nuremberg defendants, and their associates, along with identification of those held directly responsible for the fate of the Jews.<br />A considerable amount of time is spent discussing how the Germans had gradually perfected the technology of genocide. Mass shootings gave way to mass gassings using the carbon monoxide from the burning of fuel by large engines. This was replaced with Zyklon, a pelleted form of hydrogen cyanide. It was found that the burning of bodies in large pyres disposed of them quicker than the crematory ovens. To hasten the disposal of the murder victims, their bodies were not usually burned completely to ashes. Some death camps pulverized the bones of the victims with special bone-crushing machines, while other camps just used slaves bearing hammers to do the gruesome job.<br />The Jewish death toll at Auschwitz-Birkenau is currently estimated as fewer than 1 million. This contrasts with earlier estimates of 1.5 million, 1.2 million, etc. This should be of no comfort to Holocaust deniers, as the present estimate, and overall Jewish death toll, is unlikely to be reduced any further, at least to a substantial extent. However, it does ask for an explanation for the discrepancies with earlier estimates, and none is provided.<br />Although a full examination of the Jewish relationship with Poles in German-occupied Poland is beyond the scope of this volume, Hilberg presents some information that sheds light on this relationship. He cites a German document wherein its author complains about the fact that Jews avoiding the roundups (leading to the death camps of Sobibor and Belzec) are hiding with Polish and Ukrainian families. He acknowledges the fact that the death penalty was imposed in Poland for aiding Jews (p. 520). He also points out (p. 1122) the extreme housing density of gentile Poles (4 per apartment in prewar Poland; no doubt greater during the German occupation) and its role in the disinclination of Poles to hide fugitive Jews.<br />Recurrent charges of Poles turning in or killing fugitive Jews, commonly encountered in Holocaust materials, neglect a number of factors, one of which is the latter's significant involvement in the plunder (and sometimes murder) of Polish villagers. Hilberg is one of the few non-Polish authors who acknowledge the fact (p. 1126) that bands of fugitive Jews would rob Polish peasants. The reader can visualize all of German-occupied Poland as one giant concentration camp where its inmates often fought, and sometimes killed each other, over food and other essentials.<br />It is unfortunate that a Holocaust scholar of Hilberg's stature accepts a shoddy account of the Jedwabne massacre in a totally uncritical manner (pp.320-321). The evidence does not support Gross' storytelling. There were 200-400 Jewish victims, not 1,600. Most definitely, the Germans were not spectators who were just filming what the Poles were doing. Very likely, it was the Germans who orchestrated this atrocity. The Poles were actually relegated to a compelled subsidiary role (perhaps 40 Poles, certainly not \\"half the town\\"). The Poles were forced to round up and guard the Jews. Whether the Poles were involved in the actual torching of the Jew-filled barn, consensually or not, has not been established by convincing evidence.<br />Hilberg moves beyond Jewish deaths to encompass the Sinti and Roma (Gypsies), German male homosexuals, etc. He also discusses the planned partial genocide of the Polish population, wherein a fraction of it would be Germanized or kept alive as a reservoir of slave labor, and the rest put to death. Heis also perceptive in pointing out that massive Polish guerrilla action in the Lublin region, in the face of draconian German colonization with concomitant deportation and murder of the local Poles, had been one of the earlier phases of this planned genocide.<br />Hilberg's work contains a wealth of information. There are also numerous footnotes that enable the reader to do further research.h. He is also perceptive in pointing out that massive Polish guerrilla action in the Lublin region, in the face of draconian German colonization with concomitant deportation and murder of the local Poles, had been one of the earlier phases of this planned genocide.<br />Hilberg's work contains a wealth of information. There are also numerous footnotes that enable the reader to do further research.	2004-03-25
US	39169752	R35YE3C5YVQB3W	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Captures the Essence of Christ's Passion	The movie has been criticized as being too violent. Actually, upon seeing the film, I have to conclude that the actual problem is the fact that all previous films and plays about the Passion have been much too sanitized and nonviolent. Of course, the violence, apart from being historically accurate, is a reflection of the brutalities of the ancient world in general and the ancient Roman Empire in particular. Those liberals who complain about conservatives selectively condemning televised violence are just being silly. There is a world of difference between the careful depiction of violence in movies and the gratuitous violence that pervades modern movies and TV. Conservatives have never objected to the former, only the latter. Those who complain about the discrepancies in the Gospels are being equally silly. Apart from the fact that these discrepances are to be expected between independent eyewitness accounts, they are minor and easily reconciled with each other (much as variant newspaper accounts of the same event in no way negate the factuality of the event).<br />The violence makes it easy to understand elements of the Passion. For instance, the abject brutality of the scourging makes it easy to understand why many of those flagellated died on the spot. It is amazing that our Lord did not die much sooner. Then again, God the Father needed His Son to live long enough to complete His atoning Sacrifice for our sake.<br />Far from being anti-Semitic or otherwise portraying Jews in a unilaterally negative light, it includes portrayal of Jews as the victims of the Roman conquerors. This is shown by the derogatory remarks towards Jews by Pilate (e. g., This stinking province!...This rabble!...), as well as the Roman soldiers (e. g., An impossible people!...Help Him carry the cross--you Jew!).<br />I disagree with those who say that the movie didn't pay attention to His teachings. Apart from the fact that the movie was about His Passion, and not primarily about His entire life and teachings, it does include substantial references to the latter. These include flashbacks to the time of Jesus as a Boy, Jesus following the trade of His father Joseph as a carpenter, the forgiveness of the adulteress, the command to love one's enemies, the command to love one another as He had loved them, Peter's promise never to betray Him, etc.<br />Because He died to take away my sins, the film enabled me to see myself as His tormentor. It was I who was spitting on Him, scourging Him so savagely, making Him carry the Cross, and then nailing Him to it.<br />The film concludes with a good visual portrayal of His Resurrection. The grave clothes stay wrapped together while His resurrected Body passes right through them, and His Body still contains the nail marks of His Passion. A superb film! The only question is why a film of this quality had not been produced much sooner.e life and teachings, it does include substantial references to the latter. These include flashbacks to the time of Jesus as a Boy, Jesus following the trade of His father Joseph as a carpenter, the forgiveness of the adulteress, the command to love one's enemies, the command to love one another as He had loved them, Peter's promise never to betray Him, etc.<br />Because He died to take away my sins, the film enabled me to see myself as His tormentor. It was I who was spitting on Him, scourging Him so savagely, making Him carry the Cross, and then nailing Him to it.  <br />The film concludes with a good visual portrayal of His Resurrection. The grave clothes stay wrapped together while His resurrected Body passes right through them, and His Body still contains the nail marks of His Passion. A superb film! The only question is why a film of this quality had not been produced much sooner.	2004-03-18
US	39169752	R3OZVCBITPSITP	0880335114	746794956	After the Holocaust: Polish-Jewish Conflict in the Wake of World War II (East European Monographs)	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Seminal Analysis Corrects Holocaust-Related Distortions. An Antidote to neo-Stalinist Jan T. Gross and His Falsehoods	The imposition of a Soviet puppet government was a painful chapter in Poland's history. In response to the usual anti-Polish bias of Holocaust materials, arguments fly back and forth, including that: 1) Jews supporting the Communists were few and far between, 2) Jews acting against the anti-German anti-Communist Polish independentist forces (the AK, NSZ, and their successor organizations) were simply taking revenge for earlier injustices and/or protecting themselves against Polish hostility, 3) Retaliatory attacks by Polish independentists against Jews were narrowly tailored against those Jews who supported Poland's enemies, 4) The Polish independentist forces formed and implemented a plan to &#34;finish Hitler's job&#34; by killing off all remaining Jews so that Poland would be Judenrein (free of Jews). 5) The explanation for Poles killing Jews, notably during property disputes, begins and ends with Polish anti-Semitism. As Chodakiewicz shows throughout this eye-opening book, all five premises are FALSE.<br /><br />THE KIELCE POGROM<br /><br />There is no evidence that Polish independentist forces were behind the Cracow and Kielce pogroms.  Furthermore, the citation of a Soviet source that attributes these tragic events to staging by the Soviet secret police (for propaganda purposes, see p. 184) is intriguing, and calls for further research. So is a Jewish eyewitness report of the suspicious behavior of a Soviet commander stationed in Kielce at the time of the pogrom (p. 172).  As for those local Poles who joined the anti-Jewish riots once in progress, one wonders where Polish anti-Semitism left off and where mob psychology began. Unfortunately, the relevant archives of the Polish Communist secret police were destroyed about the year 1989, raising obvious questions about these pogroms.<br /><br />WHY POLISH ANTI-SEMITISM<br /><br />Anti-Semitic animosities were triggered much less by old folklores and traditional church teachings than by the large-scale Jewish support for Poland's enemies, most recently during the Soviet invasion of eastern Poland in 1939 and again in 1942-1947. Chodakiewicz cites a number of documents (pp. 42-43) that prove the fact that Jews, at 1% of Poland's postwar population, represented upwards of 50% of leadership positions in the dreaded Communist secret police, a force responsible for torturing and murdering tens of thousands of Poles. Jews were also strongly over represented in its lower levels, though not to as extreme an extent. While there was no grand Jewish-Communist conspiracy as such, it is difficult to imagine how the existing situation could have failed to inflame Polish-Jewish relations.<br /><br />The cited testimony of Jan Dawid Landau (p. 77) is instructive in understanding how Stalin recruited Polish Jews to do the dirty work for him (also facilitating the tarring of independentists with the label of anti-Semitism once they fought back). Landau was told by a UB (Bezpieka: The Communist secret police) officer that he now had the opportunity to take revenge for everything he had suffered from the Polish people. This illustrates the typical left-wing technique of stirring up resentments (&#34;victim consciousness&#34;) of one group against another. Landau did not join, and instead fled to the west. Chodakiewicz notes instances where Jews were perfectly justified in involving the Communist authorities. Others clearly were not. Perhaps the most odious episodes involved Jews turning against their erstwhile Polish benefactors and rescuers. Finally, those Jews who chose to join, or otherwise collaborate with, the Communist police itself must have known, based on the information in quotes cited by Chodakiewicz (p. 73, 78, etc.), that their actions would send multitudes of Poles innocent of anti-Jewish actions into the torture-and-death mills of the Soviets, and thus provoke an anti-Semitic backlash.  Chodakiewicz provides a very minimal estimate, based on only the few local sources that he hadaccess to, of 3,128 to 6,625 Polish victims of Jewish perpetrators (p. 223).<br /><br />For more on the extensive scale of Jewish-Soviet collaboration during and soon after WWII, and its role in provoking &#34;pogroms&#34;, please click on, and read my detailed English-language review, of  [[ASIN:8377852810 Pogrom Czy Odwet?]]<br /><br />COLLECTIVIST REPRISALS WENT BOTH WAYS<br /><br />Polish freedom fighters targeted both Communist Poles and Communist Jews, often killing family members in reprisal for the actions of a Communist relative. Yaffa Eliach's experiences, if accurately reported by her, can be understood in this light. In addition, totally innocent Jews in the area were sometimes targeted. Whether or not this actually happened depended partly on the decisions of low-ranking commanders as well as the extent and visibility of Jewish-Communist collaboration in a given area.  Chodakiewicz says that &#34;Alas, collectivistic thinking produced collectivistic reprisals.&#34;<br /><br />Earlier, Jewish Communists were persecuting ALL Poles, and not only those Poles who had wronged the Jews. No doubt the Communist Jewish enmity directed collectively against Poles provoked a similar counter-response.<br /><br />NO &#34;HOLOCAUST AFTER THE HOLOCAUST&#34;<br /><br />The insinuation, periodically appearing in Holocaust materials, that the AK and NSZ were out to kill all remaining Polish Jews is totally baseless. In fact, Chodakiewicz provides instances where independentist forces did not kill known Jews (pp. 144-145) when they easily could have done so. Earlier, some AK and NSZ units had rescued and hid Jews (pp. 59-60, 189). Finally, Chodadiewicz cites numerous instances of Polish-Jewish cooperation and goodwill in the difficult postwar years. These provide a resounding rebuttal to the widespread mischaracterization of Polish society as being so anti-Semitic that Jews had no choice but to be the enemy of Poles.<br /><br />JEWS RETURNING TO RECLAIM THEIR PROPERTY<br /><br />Concerning those hundreds (NOT thousands) of Jews killed in property disputes with Poles, Chodakiewicz shows that most of these incidents stem from the widespread lawlessness that prevailed in the wake of the imposition of Communism over Poland (p.7, 13). Chodakiewicz could have made his case stronger by putting these Jewish deaths in numerical perspective. Considering the fact that there were over 300,000 surviving Jews, it follows that reclaimed Jewish properties must have numbered in the tens of thousands, meaning that less than 1% of property reacquisitions led to the killing of the Jewish claimants, in addition to the fact that most of the killers were motivated by common banditry, not anti-Semitism. Yet Holocaust materials (notably MAUS) tacitly portray the killing of Jews by Poles as a normal and anti-Jewish occurrence, and it is high time that these inaccurate and inflammatory materials be withdrawn. Other Holocaust materials, which never tire of bringing up Polish anti-Semitism and the greatly exaggerated role of Christian teachings behind it, should be more forthright in mentioning and elaborating the large scale of Jewish collaboration with Poland's enemies that was the main driving force behind this anti-Semitism.wish perpetrators (p. 223).  For more on the extensive scale of Jewish-Soviet collaboration during and soon after WWII, and its role in provoking &#34;pogroms&#34;, please click on, and read my detailed English-language review, of  [[ASIN:8377852810 Pogrom Czy Odwet?]]  COLLECTIVIST REPRISALS WENT BOTH WAYS  Polish freedom fighters targeted both Communist Poles and Communist Jews, often killing family members in reprisal for the actions of a Communist relative. Yaffa Eliach's experiences, if accurately reported by her, can be understood in this light. In addition, totally innocent Jews in the area were sometimes targeted. Whether or not this actually happened depended partly on the decisions of low-ranking commanders as well as the extent and visibility of Jewish-Communist collaboration in a given area.  Chodakiewicz says that &#34;Alas, collectivistic thinking produced collectivistic reprisals.&#34;  Earlier, Jewish Communists were persecuting ALL Poles, and not only those Poles who had wronged the Jews. No doubt the Communist Jewish enmity directed collectively against Poles provoked a similar counter-response.  NO &#34;HOLOCAUST AFTER THE HOLOCAUST&#34;  The insinuation, periodically appearing in Holocaust materials, that the AK and NSZ were out to kill all remaining Polish Jews is totally baseless. In fact, Chodakiewicz provides instances where independentist forces did not kill known Jews (pp. 144-145) when they easily could have done so. Earlier, some AK and NSZ units had rescued and hid Jews (pp. 59-60, 189). Finally, Chodadiewicz cites numerous instances of Polish-Jewish cooperation and goodwill in the difficult postwar years. These provide a resounding rebuttal to the widespread mischaracterization of Polish society as being so anti-Semitic that Jews had no choice but to be the enemy of Poles.  JEWS RETURNING TO RECLAIM THEIR PROPERTY  Concerning those hundreds (NOT thousands) of Jews killed in property disputes with Poles, Chodakiewicz shows that most of these incidents stem from the widespread lawlessness that prevailed in the wake of the imposition of Communism over Poland (p.7, 13). Chodakiewicz could have made his case stronger by putting these Jewish deaths in numerical perspective. Considering the fact that there were over 300,000 surviving Jews, it follows that reclaimed Jewish properties must have numbered in the tens of thousands, meaning that less than 1% of property reacquisitions led to the killing of the Jewish claimants, in addition to the fact that most of the killers were motivated by common banditry, not anti-Semitism. Yet Holocaust materials (notably MAUS) tacitly portray the killing of Jews by Poles as a normal and anti-Jewish occurrence, and it is high time that these inaccurate and inflammatory materials be withdrawn. Other Holocaust materials, which never tire of bringing up Polish anti-Semitism and the greatly exaggerated role of Christian teachings behind it, should be more forthright in mentioning and elaborating the large scale of Jewish collaboration with Poland's enemies that was the main driving force behind this anti-Semitism.	2004-03-17
US	39169752	R167UQXRC6HZ5Q	0813531586	572135573	Contested Memories: Poles and Jews during the Holocaust and Its Aftermath	Books	3	50	70	N	N	Better Than Most, But Repeats Common Generalizations	This book mixes historical facts and stereotyped generalizations. Owing to space limitations, only a few of the latter can be reviewed. The prewar economic boycotts and numerus clausus at universities are mentioned, but not the fact that Polish Jews, at 10% of the Polish population, owned over 40% of Poland's wealth, and were over-represented at universities. These anti-Jewish policies were, using modern parlance, a form of affirmative action designed to get more Polish gentiles into Jewish-dominated institutions.<br />Although Poland was only one of two German-occupied nations in which the death penalty was imposed for aiding Jews, certain writers (cited by Zimmerman) have attempted to minimize its significance by disingenuously arguing that it didn't decisively constrain Polish behavior. But concealing an inanimate object (e. g., a gun) is far less risky than hiding a human being! We keep hearing that Poles did not \\"do enough\\" to save Jews. But who is to be the judge of this, and on what basis is the judgment to be made? As for Poles having failed a moral test, this additionally implies the uniqueness of Jewish suffering, a view that did not develop until long after WWII. How was the average Pole, trying to survive under the lash of the Germans, realize that his conduct would be subject to an ex post facto moralization? No convincing evidence is presented to support reflexive claims that Poles were disinclined to help Jews owing to prewar attitudes (and church teachings). In fact, the acknowledged anti-Semitic beliefs of many rescuers of Jews argue for the opposite.<br />Polish inaction towards the Jews is simplistically generalized as indifference. Polish help to Jews, Zegota aside, is characterized as \\"only individual and unorganized\\". Yet discussion of Zegota (Pawlikowski) makes it clear that the Germans would only have more easily penetrated a larger underground rescue network. Furthermore, substantially more Polish assistance to Jews would have triggered a correspondingly greater German terror against the Polish population with little net additional saving of Jewish lives. Complaints about the AK (Polish Home Army) lacking a systematic program for aiding fugitive Jews are misunderstandings. It was a clandestine guerrilla organization, devoted to military objectives and, exceptions aside, unable to save individual Jewish (or Polish) lives. Poles outside of the AK wanting to fight procured arms themselves, never waiting for outside assistance or \\"moral support\\" [for instance, the Peasant Battalions combating draconian German colonization, and rural Poles of Volhynia thwarting genocidal attacks by the UPA (so-called Ukrainian Insurgent Army)].  The AK did not become involved until later.<br />The usual inaction of Poles and occasional betrayal of Jews is portrayed as a violation that provoked a degree of Jewish pain and anger incapable of being assuaged by the actions of those Poles who did assist Jews. But could not the same be said about Polish reactions to earlier long-term comparable Jewish behaviors? Bearing in mind that loyalty is the expected conduct, the sacrifices of patriotic Polish Jews could not counterbalance the actions of a large fraction of Polish Jews who acted indifferently to Poland's centuries-long struggle for independence, and even supported Poland's enemies. While this book touches on the latter (Lwow 1918, disproportionate Jewish involvement in Communism 1939-1947) it fails to inform the reader about the significant pro-Russian orientation of Polish Jews going far back into the 19th century.<br />Recurrent charges of Poles turning in or killing fugitive Jews neglect a number of factors, one of which is the latter's significant involvement in the plunder (and sometimes murder) of Polish villagers. Contrary to Krakowski's claims, Jewish (and, for that matter, also gentile) banditry was very real, and subject to Polish counter-action.<br />The Jedwabne massacre is presented uncritically, along with thecitation of some Polish authors who lament \\"the loss of Polish victimhood and innocence\\". But are Poland's centuries of tragic history so easily disposed of?  And how many tens of Jedwabnes would be needed to rival the number of Jews killed by Horthy's Hungary or Petain's France?  Pinchuk objects, on the basis of the fact that Jews were killed indiscriminately, to the notion of Jedwabne being Polish revenge for the recent Jewish-Soviet collaboration. But the Poles sent earlier to horrible slavery and death in Siberia, largely facilitated by Jewish denunciations, were hardly limited to those Poles guilty in Jewish eyes, and included numerous children.  Finally, the evidence does not support Gross' storytelling. There were 200-400 Jewish victims, not 1,600. Very likely, the Germans orchestrated this atrocity, with the Poles relegated to a compelled subsidiary role (perhaps 40 Poles, certainly not \\"half the town\\"). Who actually torched the barn is unclear.<br />Perhaps the weakest part of this book is the rather superficial treatment of continued mutual Jewish-Polish prejudices (Gitelman), with no factoring of its extreme asymmetry. When a Pole makes negative comments about Jews, his audience is relatively small and almost always Polish. In contrast, a vast, diverse audience was exposed to the Polonophobic remarks of such prominent Jews as Carole Burnett, Alan Dershowitz, Yitzhak Shamir, Eppie Lederer (Ann Landers), etc. The Polack joke syndrome is mentioned, but not its origin from Jewish comedians. No mention is made of the usual anti-Polish slant of Holocaust-related films. (The Pianist is the exception that proves the rule. Free of Pole-bashing, it was widely criticized by Jewish commentators for this reason). The widely acclaimed educational cartoon Maus has pigs representing Poles, an inexcusable choice, while comparatively innocuous animals (cats, mice, etc.) represent all other nationalities. British scholar Norman Davies was denied tenure at Stanford University, as a result of Jewish pressure, all because of the opinion that he was \\"too pro-Polish\\".<br />The persistence of Polish anti-Semitism is simplistically attributed to the continued presence of negative characterizations of Jews in the Polish language, even though such characterizations, unfortunately, are virtually universal (e. g., the phrase \\"To Jew someone down\\" in the English language). Clearly, this book leaves much to be desired.the citation of some Polish authors who lament \\"the loss of Polish victimhood and innocence\\". But are Poland's centuries of tragic history so easily disposed of?  And how many tens of Jedwabnes would be needed to rival the number of Jews killed by Horthy's Hungary or Petain's France?  Pinchuk objects, on the basis of the fact that Jews were killed indiscriminately, to the notion of Jedwabne being Polish revenge for the recent Jewish-Soviet collaboration. But the Poles sent earlier to horrible slavery and death in Siberia, largely facilitated by Jewish denunciations, were hardly limited to those Poles guilty in Jewish eyes, and included numerous children.  Finally, the evidence does not support Gross' storytelling. There were 200-400 Jewish victims, not 1,600. Very likely, the Germans orchestrated this atrocity, with the Poles relegated to a compelled subsidiary role (perhaps 40 Poles, certainly not \\"half the town\\"). Who actually torched the barn is unclear. <br />Perhaps the weakest part of this book is the rather superficial treatment of continued mutual Jewish-Polish prejudices (Gitelman), with no factoring of its extreme asymmetry. When a Pole makes negative comments about Jews, his audience is relatively small and almost always Polish. In contrast, a vast, diverse audience was exposed to the Polonophobic remarks of such prominent Jews as Carole Burnett, Alan Dershowitz, Yitzhak Shamir, Eppie Lederer (Ann Landers), etc. The Polack joke syndrome is mentioned, but not its origin from Jewish comedians. No mention is made of the usual anti-Polish slant of Holocaust-related films. (The Pianist is the exception that proves the rule. Free of Pole-bashing, it was widely criticized by Jewish commentators for this reason). The widely acclaimed educational cartoon Maus has pigs representing Poles, an inexcusable choice, while comparatively innocuous animals (cats, mice, etc.) represent all other nationalities. British scholar Norman Davies was denied tenure at Stanford University, as a result of Jewish pressure, all because of the opinion that he was \\"too pro-Polish\\". <br />The persistence of Polish anti-Semitism is simplistically attributed to the continued presence of negative characterizations of Jews in the Polish language, even though such characterizations, unfortunately, are virtually universal (e. g., the phrase \\"To Jew someone down\\" in the English language). Clearly, this book leaves much to be desired.	2004-03-10
US	39169752	R22MOLXEQ5T0OU	031027771X	530273080	The Late Great Planet Earth	Books	5	10	24	N	N	A Classic That Remains Relevant Today	Although this book was written 30 years ago, it remains timely. While the Soviet Union has disintegrated, it does not change the fact that a great northern power will one day attack Israel, and face God's direct wrath. While this northern power cannot be the Soviet Union, it can easily be something worse--perhaps an even more egregious Russian totalitarian state will soon emerge. In fact, not a few Russians insist that &quot;We are between empires.&quot; Meanwhile, the enmity of Arab states against Israel has not diminished. Finally, regardless of the accuracy or otherwise of Lindsey's ideas about the end times, we do know that Jesus Christ will return to Earth someday, and His return is imminent. This means that it can happen at anytime, not necessarily soon.	2004-03-05
US	39169752	R2PSTENZ2UNQX5	0813515572	182644674	Baptist Battles: Social Change and Religious Conflict in the Southern Baptist Convention	Books	5	12	27	N	N	Underscores the Modernistic Rotting of Christian Churches	This book is valuable in that it goes far beyond the conflict within the Baptist Church itself. It goes to the struggle over the very soul of Christianity. As emphasized throughout this book, nothing causes the decline of Christian churches faster than the undermining of the Word of God by theological liberalism. Witness the virtual disappearance of significant Christian practice and influence in western Europe. In this book, Criswell is perceptably cited (p. 81) in pointing out that the onset of theological liberalism, as exemplified by the so-called higher critical approach to the Bible, quickly led to a precipitous decline in church attendance, conversions, prayer meetings, missionary activity, etc. Worse yet, theological liberalism, or modernism, is often disguised with euphemisms such as &quot;theological moderates&quot;. But Criswell (p. 84) is quoted as saying, &quot;A skunk by any other name still stinks&quot;. Very well put!	2004-02-27
US	39169752	R1QRQZE5YYGSGP	1586481843	626448035	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom	Books	2	38	72	N	N	A Poorly Reasoned Whitewash of Yalta	This book appears scholarly from its detail and extensive bibliography. A close examination, however, reveals the superficiality and ignorance of Conrad Black, the author. In arguing for the inevitability of Soviet rule as a foregone outcome of Red Army presence, Black, for one thing, completely ignores the magnitude of Soviet dependence on western Lend-Lease aid. Had it been dispensed judiciously, Stalin would have been forced to respect the sovereignty of eastern European nations (and not just Austria).<br />More important, and as if to exonerate Roosevelt at all costs, Black incorrectly states that Soviet intentions towards Poland were not obvious until about December 1944 (p. 1029). In actuality, Stalin had already shown, not long after June 1941, that he would take whatever he was allowed to get away with. Almost simultaneously, Stalin was treated to the lack of seriousness of both Churchill and later Roosevelt in the fulfilling of their treaty obligations to Poland, their ever faithful ally. For instance, at no time was Stalin seriously pressured to account for thousands of missing Polish officer POWs (later found murdered as part of the infamous Spring 1940 Katyn Massacre). In fact, Stalin, no less at his weakest position soon after the Nazi German attack, was not even called for transparent mendacity about their fate (They must have all escaped to China).<br />Thus Stalin became progressively emboldened as one act of unilateral appeasement by Churchill and Roosevelt, at Polands expense, followed another. By the time the Red Army did re-enter Poland, there was not much left to give away. Occupying Poland and violating the farcical Yalta agreement itself were, for Stalin, just icing on the cake, and not the cake itself. All along, protests and warnings from Polish politicians fell on deaf ears. In addition, their public comments soon became muzzled, at Stalins suggestion, in the interests of Allied unity. Meanwhile, left-wing presses in the west remained free in their attempts to sway public opinion by means of increasingly venomous slander directed against the Polish government in exile (reactionary wealthy landowners, closet fascists, etc.).<br />Black would have his readers believe that the Soviet Union had earned its hegemony over eastern Europe by virtue of the actions and sacrifices of the Red Army. But, if might makes right, then one could just as easily say that Nazi Germany had similarly earned its European-wide empire. Black even attempts to excuse Roosevelts policies by representing the subsequent Cold War as a remedy for Yalta, when in reality this was a closing of the barn door long after the horse had been allowed to escape. He cites the harsh history of eastern Europe, implying that past injustices somehow validate newer ones. Lamest of all is Blacks reference to the brevity of Yaltas consequences (45 years), when this had nothing to do with Roosevelt. Ironically, it was the strong Soviet-containing policies of President Ronald Reagan, standing in diametric contrast to the appeasement policies of Churchill and Roosevelt that helped finally end of Soviet rule over Poland.<br />To further whitewash Yalta and magnify Roosevelt, Conrad Black consistently portrays Poland as a bad boy deserving of its fate. He peppers his work with pejorative generalizations of Polish leaders (stubbornfoolishunwisedisputatious, etc., etc.).  He speaks of prewar Poland being corrupt and viciously anti-Semitic [Were non-Polish nations all paragons of political virtue, and were they all exemplary paradises for Jews?]. We even hear that Poland was not very democratic and that it had no distinction of self-government. Obviously, Black does not have a clue about these matters. For his basic information, Poland was one of the leaders in the emergence of democratic forms of government in recent centuries. In fact, the May 3 Polish Constitution, secondonly to the US Constitution, was also the most democratic one in Europe for its time.  Having subsequently lost its independence to imperial European powers, the recently reconstituted Polish state faced stiff challenges unmatched by most other nations. In any event, an imperfect democracy was infinitely preferable to a Soviet-imposed totalitarian Communist state.<br />Black slips into an even more overt blame-the-victim mentality when he approvingly recounts Churchills chiding of Polish leaders stubbornness  (p. 919) for not caving in to the giveaway of Polands eastern territories to Stalin. This is like telling a raped woman that, had she only been a little more wise and not objected so much, her assailant may not have gone ahead with the rape. Furthermore, Black presents the issue of Polands eastern border as some kind of political chess game. The Churchill-Roosevelt giveaway of eastern Poland to Stalins appetite was, in actuality, apart from a stab in the back of a faithful ally, a blatantly illegal act. The Soviet-Polish Treaty of Riga (1922) had defined Polands eastern border with the Soviet Union, and the latter had not the slightest legitimate claim against Polish territory. But Stalin was allowed to get away with resurrecting long-defunct pre-Riga considerations related to the Polish-Soviet frontier, and was even taken seriously when advancing fresh absurdities to rationalize the theft of Polish territory.  Black (p. 885) shows his ignorance when he approvingly refers to eastern Poland as marshland. In fact, most of it was productive land that had been the domicile of millions of Poles [and non-Poles, many of which long had been culturally and politically identified with Poland, and very few of which, in any case, genuinely wished to be part of the Soviet Union] since prehistoric times. It also contained many centuries-old centers of Polish culture. (Imagine someone urging the US to cede the Boston/New York area without regrets because, after all, it was forests and hills). Nor should the betrayal of Poland have ever been linked with Polands eventual acquisition of German territory (a form of punitive reparations).<br />Much, much more could be said about the shallowness of Conrad Blacks thinking, but space limitations prevent it. Suffice it to conclude that the Churchill-Roosevelt double-cross of Poland was and will forever be totally inexcusable.ond only to the US Constitution, was also the most democratic one in Europe for its time.  Having subsequently lost its independence to imperial European powers, the recently reconstituted Polish state faced stiff challenges unmatched by most other nations. In any event, an imperfect democracy was infinitely preferable to a Soviet-imposed totalitarian Communist state. <br />Black slips into an even more overt blame-the-victim mentality when he approvingly recounts Churchills chiding of Polish leaders stubbornness  (p. 919) for not caving in to the giveaway of Polands eastern territories to Stalin. This is like telling a raped woman that, had she only been a little more wise and not objected so much, her assailant may not have gone ahead with the rape. Furthermore, Black presents the issue of Polands eastern border as some kind of political chess game. The Churchill-Roosevelt giveaway of eastern Poland to Stalins appetite was, in actuality, apart from a stab in the back of a faithful ally, a blatantly illegal act. The Soviet-Polish Treaty of Riga (1922) had defined Polands eastern border with the Soviet Union, and the latter had not the slightest legitimate claim against Polish territory. But Stalin was allowed to get away with resurrecting long-defunct pre-Riga considerations related to the Polish-Soviet frontier, and was even taken seriously when advancing fresh absurdities to rationalize the theft of Polish territory.  Black (p. 885) shows his ignorance when he approvingly refers to eastern Poland as marshland. In fact, most of it was productive land that had been the domicile of millions of Poles [and non-Poles, many of which long had been culturally and politically identified with Poland, and very few of which, in any case, genuinely wished to be part of the Soviet Union] since prehistoric times. It also contained many centuries-old centers of Polish culture. (Imagine someone urging the US to cede the Boston/New York area without regrets because, after all, it was forests and hills). Nor should the betrayal of Poland have ever been linked with Polands eventual acquisition of German territory (a form of punitive reparations).  <br />Much, much more could be said about the shallowness of Conrad Blacks thinking, but space limitations prevent it. Suffice it to conclude that the Churchill-Roosevelt double-cross of Poland was and will forever be totally inexcusable.	2004-02-18
US	39169752	R28363HCXC0CTG	0310247454	340262262	Boundaries: When to Say Yes, How to Say No to Take Control of Your Life	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Avoiding Self-Depreciation Masquerading as Christian Living	Perhaps the most helpful part of this book, in my opinion, is its expose of the many myths that well-meaning Christian believers have about the setting of boundaries. These include the implicit belief that good Christians are doormats who have no boundaries. Too many Christians mistakenly think that to set boundaries is to hurt someone, to be selfish or, in the case of leader-following relationships, to be nonsubmissive. When done correctly, and with the right spirit, it is nothing of this sort.	2004-02-17
US	39169752	R3EJESFM64CFQZ	0380777185	334032240	Prozac: Questions and Answers for Patients, Family and Physicians	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Very Practical Guide to Therapies for Depression	This book answers every imaginable question about Prozac. The author is also forthcoming about cases where Prozac has created strongly negative side effects, but makes the point that such instances are rare. He particularly makes it clear that the distinction between unipolar and bipolar depressive disorders is one of degree rather than kind. More broadly speaking, this book is an excellent primer on the nature of various depressive disorders. A lot of useful information is packed into this little book!	2004-02-17
US	39169752	R2C3TT44UFH179	0671726528	28659434	Kon-Tiki: Across the Pacific in a Raft	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Fascinating Book Loaded with Scientific Information	In this classic, Heyerdahl constructs a raft to sail 4,300 nautical miles from Peru to the South Pacific Islands in order to prove his theory that the natives of Peru could have migrated to these islands thousands of years ago. This book contains a great deal of information of interest to scientists. These include the appearance of previously little-known fish, the scope of marine bioluminescense, the deployment of ocean currents, etc. It is interesting to note that the Polynesians realized that the Earth was round. A re-examination of the common belief that prescientific peoples invariably believed in a flat Earth is clearly warranted.	2004-02-13
US	39169752	R1XX1C8K6K8794	0060598387	141830160	The Atkins Essentials: A Two-Week Program to Jump-start Your Low Carb Lifestyle	Books	5	23	25	N	N	An Excellent Update of the Atkins Approach	For someone who needs an overview of the Atkins low-carb approach, this book is excellent. Those who have already read Atkins' earlier books (I have, and have lost 56 pounds, and am so far maintaining my weight loss) this book contains valuable new information not found in any of Atkins' earlier works. This includes a practical list of the number of individual pieces of various nuts that, taken together, approximate a standard serving of 1 ounce (28 gram). A valuable bibliography of recent biomedical studies (covering late 2002 and most of 2003, most of which have not been conducted in association with the Atkins Center, that support the Atkins approach to low-carb dieting (weight loss and maintenance of normal weight thereafter), is also listed.	2004-01-28
US	39169752	R3LHN63TQWOXSR	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	2	12	15	N	N	A Clone of the Atkins Diet	The author presents almost the same information as Atkins: The need for limiting simple carbs, the problem of fluctuating blood sugar, the value of low-glycemic carbohydrates, etc. However, Atkins is much more detailed. The author, Agatson, misrepresents the Atkins diet as a carbohydrate-free one. Nothing could be further from the truth. Atkins, just like this author, recommends a short period of low-carb intake, followed by a gradual increase of low-glycemic carbs, with priority given to nuts and certain vegetables. Both authors also value the good fats, such as those that come from nuts, deep-sea fish, etc. Agatson insists that too much saturated fat is harmful. But nowhere does Atkins recommend an overconsumption of saturated fat. Besides, as pointed out by Atkins, the studies which implicate saturated fats in cardiovascular disease have included a high-carb intake, confounding the results. When saturated fats are consumed in the context of a low or reduced-carb diet, there is no evidence that they are harmful in moderate amounts.	2004-01-12
US	39169752	R1J70NQHEP0CSG	0380799006	834404613	Siblings Without Rivalry: How to Help Your Children Live Together So You Can Live Too	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Very Practical "How to" Book	This book is useful not only for dealing with sibling rivalry, but also with diffusing conflicts between any children. It is valuable not only for parents but also for those adults who regularly deal with children avocationally (as in Scouts, or AWANA Clubs) as well as professionally (school teachers). This book refrains from dry theory. To the contrary: It contains many cartoons that depict a common response to childrens' conflicts versus a much better way of handling these conflicts. The conflicts dealt with range from children's feelings of adult favoritism all the way to open fighting.	2004-01-05
US	39169752	RPJUSJBVZSXWX	1842224980	72953917	Space	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Beautifully Illustrated Book Verifies 1960's Moon Race	This book is loaded with photographs as well as a historical narrative. What I found especially interesting was a series of photographs of the unsuccessful Soviet effort to beat the US to the moon in the late 1960's. These include the large new Soviet booster rocket that kept exploding shortly after launch, as well as a scaled-down (one man) Soviet lunar module that was never used. This information exposes the falsehood, advanced against the US Apollo Program at the time by certain left-wing circles, that posited that there had been no moon race because the Soviets ostensibly never had intended to land men on the moon. They certainly did--and they failed.	2003-12-15
US	39169752	R1344K2QDVUYZ9	091471032X	552460921	Korbonski: the Polish Underground State (Cloth) (East European monograph series ; no. 39)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Reveals All But Forgotten Polish Achievements in WWII	Popular Holocaust materials mistakenly portray Poland as a spectator nation in the face of the German Nazis. Nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, few people realize that 3 million Polish non-Jews were murdered by the Germans along with the 6 million Jews (p. 13). Specific achievements of the Polish Underground resistance are tabulated on pages 84-85. These include thousands of acts of sabotage, thousands of Gestapo agents liquidated, and numerous acts of military intelligence. The perfidious Soviet takeover is also recounted. Korbonski even finds space for humor during tragic situations. For example, he notes that the PPR (Polish Workers Party) was renamed \\"The Paid Flunkies of Russia\\"--following the same letters of abbreviation in the Polish language.	2003-12-04
US	39169752	R26NLFTDDLEKMJ	031021923X	203019113	The Jesus I Never Knew	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Explains Why God Does Not Furnish More Compelling Proofs	The Christian faith is eminently rational, and there is a large body of evidence that supports its truth claims. At the same time, as pointed out by Yancey in this book (especially on page 74), the Lord does not compel belief. Skeptics ask why the sky does not open up for God to show Himself to everyone, or why the Lord did not show His resurrected Self to Pilate. Clearly, the Lord resisted Satan's temptation to do more spectacular miracles and thereby increase His fame. This would have reduced the human freedom of choosing Him or rejecting Him. In addition, the Lord Jesus Christ was and is not so much pointing to the truth as pointing to Himself. Jesus Christ never backed away from a conflict. Consider the Pharisees. The problem was not that the Pharisees were too strict but that they were not strict enough. The Sermon on the Mount exemplifies the great gulf which exists between God and humanity, and this gulf can never be bridged by self effort. Only Jesus Christ can bridge this gulf, and He has done this for all who believe.	2003-11-06
US	39169752	R2HKN3BQ8C99KN	0517455951	886990271	The Unknown Patton	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Inspirational Words of General Patton	This book has many Pattonisms. This includes how soldiers are to overcome the fear of death. Patton reminds them that all men die in time, that only 2% of soldiers in heavy combat die in battle, and that everyone in battle is scared. He then makes the sage point about courage NOT being the absence of fear but the carrying on of duties in spite of one's fears. As a Polish American, I especially appreciate the fact (p. 160) that Patton quotes the Polish General Anders to the effect that, were Anders' Polish forces sandwiched between the German army and the Soviet Army, he would not know which one to fight. Very well put! Even though the Soviets were supposedly Allies, they had no intention of respecting Poland's sovereignity, and the western Allies gave in to Soviet demands and betrayed Poland.	2003-10-24
US	39169752	R2PO5BHS73ZIFG	0826403905	524073771	Lech Walesa and His Poland	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Contains Deep Threads of Historical Truth	Numerous facts in this book relate to Poland's past, and prove prophetic to more recent times. For instance, Craig discusses the nomenklatura. These are the Communist officials who assumed positions of power under Soviet domination, and took advantage of their positions for personal, often corrupt ends. It was this group that was most threatened by the emergence of the Solidarity movement, and the eventual fall of Communism. Unfortunately, subsequent events were to prove that the nomenklatura merely morphed into the &quot;postCommunists&quot; who currently rule Poland. This book also discusses how the people resisted Communist indoctrination, notably the attacks on religion on ostensible scientific grounds. It is ironic that the working class and peasants, reputedly the pillars of Communist revolution, ended up playing a lead role in the opposition to Communist ideology.	2003-10-24
US	39169752	R277J1YPK5BWED	0333392582	885342801	Poland in the Second World War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Excellent Summary of Polish Achievements in WWII	Very few people realize the pivotal role that Poles played in the Allied victories of WWII. Garlinski elaborates on the solving of the German Enigma code by Polish mathematicians, the invention of a new mine detector that the British subsequently put into mass production, etc. Garlinski spends much time discussing the deportation of Poles to the Soviet Union and the heroics of the Anders Army. The betrayal of Poland to the Soviet Union, by the western Allies, is also painfully recounted.	2003-10-23
US	39169752	RWB3E9HBP9XNL	0831759992	833898097	Miracle Planet	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Beautifully Illustrated Picture  Book	The pictures in this book alone make it worth the cost of obtaining it. There are also many useful diagrams available, notably the one which illustrates how plate tectonics is believed to work, and the world map which shows known or suspected sites of large extraterrestrial impact craters. There are also rather picturesque reconstructions of certain dinosaurs.	2003-10-23
US	39169752	RBXM71W86QZUU	0316189200	659224237	The Cruelest Night	Books	5	21	27	N	N	The Greatest Maritime Disaster in History Has Ironies	The sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff, with a loss of as many as 7,000 lives, is marked by ironies. Although the ship carried civilians and wounded soldiers, it was recognizably a legitimate military target owing to its contingent of German naval personnel as well as its armament (anti-aircraft guns). The Soviet submarine which sunk the Gustloff had been built before the war as part of the clandestine Soviet-Nazi military cooperation. The Gustloff sailed from Gothenhafen, the renamed Polish port of Gdynia which the Germans had seized as part of their conquest of Poland in 1939. The refugees crammed into the doomed ship, having escaped the attentions of the avenging Soviet land forces, fell instead to the Soviet Navy. The Soviet commander, ostensibly a hero for killing fascists, ended up in Siberia, and it took nearly twenty years for him to be totally vindicated. The whole range of human behaviors was exhibited by the humans once the three torpedoes hit. Some civilians cried helplessly and were paralyzed by fear into inaction. Others were methodical in their attempts to save themselves. Some men gave up their lifejackets. Other men fought off women and children in order to get the lifeboats and rafts for themselves. The ship's crew was also preferentially saved. The last survivor was an infant who was discovered at first dawn, hours after the sinking, surrounded by the huddled-together frozen bodies of his relatives on a floating lifeboat or raft.	2003-10-15
US	39169752	R2GN0Q7VOGFSPF	0901149233	137313267	White Eagle Red Star	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Polish Heroism that Saved Europe	Soon after the Russian Revolution in 1917, the Soviets were poised to impose Communism on all of Europe. Poland, just resurrected after having been conquered and subjugated for 123 years, stood in the way. Davies, an English historian, recounts the heroism of the Poles, under Pilsudski's leadership, in repelling the fresh Russian invasion of Poland that was to eventually continue to the rest of Europe. At the same time, Pilsudski possessed the foresight and discipline not to attempt to set Poland's eastern borders too far east at the expense of the Byelorussians and Ukrainians. It is ironic that the so-called Curzon line, purely a line of armistice between the Polish and Russian forces, was later to be made by Stalin as Poland's eastern frontier. It is also sad to realize that the Polish achievement was only met with European ingratitude. In fact,who knows how the course of history would have been different had the Soviets succeeded in imposing Communism on much or all of Europe back in the early 1920's!	2003-10-10
US	39169752	R172L3UV6ZTZ3D	0553263900	410013273	When I Say No, I Feel Guilty	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Very Practical Guidebook	This book goes far beyond theoretical principles on how to be more assertive. It gives numerous sample dialogues which reflect everyday situations. One practical method is the use of fogging. You implicitly agree with the critic in order to simultaneously deflect the criticism without resorting to hostility. In this book, you learn how to be assertive in relatively impersonal situations (such as dealing with a persistent salesman) as well as closer ones (such as negotiating with an employer, or conversing with a dissatisfied spouse). A teacher can learn, using this book, how to cope with students who try to manipulate her into changing their grades on an &quot;unfair&quot; test.	2003-09-29
US	39169752	R5CDQ1TVA1GLJ	067187120X	37439910	See, I Told You So	Books	5	10	18	N	N	Penetrating and Humorous Expose of Liberalism	At one time, liberalism stood for liberty, equality, and justice. But no more. Rush emphasizes the fact that the essence of contemporary liberalism is increasing dependence upon government in exchange for votes. Rush exposes the liberals' attacks on the middle class for not being compassionate enough, for equating upward mobility with greed, and for associating spiritual and moral values with intolerance. Rush also quotes George Washington and James Madison to point out the Judeo-Christian roots of our Constitution and our society, something all but lost on liberal judges. We learn of the past doom and gloom predictions of the environmentalists, which I personally well remember, none of which have come true--not even close.  Rush also challenges us to live up to our potential, and recounts his own setbacks in life (such as being fired six times, and being broke twice). As a result, Rush' views are based on real life.	2003-09-19
US	39169752	R1R7HL73RIION2	067175145X	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Penetrating Humor and Skewering of Liberal Platitutes	Rush exposes the liberals' follies, often using humor. For instance, he talks of &quot;speaking Rushian&quot;. He calls the government entitlement mentality &quot;entitlemania&quot;. Rush makes it clear that conservatives define compassion by how many people no longer need government services, not by how many people are dependent upon government services, as liberals do. He rejects the common notion that the prosperity of some implies the poverty of others. There is the demonstrating of absurdity by being absurd. For instance, he satirizes the abortionists by using a vacuum-cleaner sound to abort phone calls to him, and quibbling about when a phone call actually is supposed to begin. He clarifies his term &quot;femiNazis&quot; as referring to extreme feminists and their moral nihilism, and certainly not referring to all women. He reminds us that the oft-quoted Willy Horton ad was not considered racist when its subject matter was brought to light, but was only selectively asserted to be racist once the Republicans began using it.	2003-09-19
US	39169752	R37EQPPPCZ21PY	0394559266	60958785	Freedom's Child: A Courageous Teenager's Story of Fleeing His Parents and the Soviet Union to Live in America	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Courageous Defiance of Soviet Tyranny	Walter Polovchak comes from Sambor in the western Ukraine. My parents originate from a nearby town from before World War II, when the region had been part of Poland. Polovchak recounts the struggle he had as a child to stay in the US, although he was a minor and his parents wanted to return to the Soviet Union. Polovchak describes the role of the ACLU in attempting to block his attempt at not only staying in the US but also getting asylum. Polovchak asks why the ACLU never once undertook a defense of human rights in the Soviet Union. Good question. Polovchak summarizes his experience in a nutshell when he calls attention to the fact that it was actually the Soviet Union that was on trial as a result of his whole experience.	2003-09-16
US	39169752	R87YQHNNGGVVS	0060166274	487553116	Hitler's Last Gamble: The Battle of the Bulge, December 1944-January 1945	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Recognizes the Polish Success in Cracking the German Code	Although this book is about the Battle of the Bulge, it also presents other war-related factual information that few readers are likely to know about. Specifically, (pp. 372-373) it calls attention to the fact that it was Polish mathematicians who cracked the German &quot;Enigma&quot; code. Dupuy also correctly points out that no other Allied nation had come close to cracking it.	2003-09-16
US	39169752	R8JI2FY7XCJ9Z	0882549944	852231853	The Polish Campaign 1939	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Refreshing Debunking of Myths	Most western accounts of the German attack on Poland end up repeating tales straight out of German propaganda. These include the myth of Polish cavalry charging German tanks, and the myth about the Polish Air Force being destroyed, largely on the ground, in the first two days of combat. Neither of these oft-repeated tales is true. While the authors do point out that some Polish military thinkers tended to underestimate the significance of Panzer divisions, the same held for many French, British, and yes, German military thinkers before the war. Nevertheless, the Poles possessed the potent Bofors 37 mm antitank gun, but not enough to make a difference in the war. The authors also discuss temporary military successes in the Bzura campaign. In the end, the German victory over Poland, and also later over much of Europe, stemmed from a combination of the former's industrial superiority coupled with the failure of western Europeans to take Hitler seriously.	2003-09-11
US	39169752	R2M78R0X0XPSA5	0684167271	437099514	Battle of Hamburg: Allied Bomber Forces Against a German City in 1943	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Recognizes the Polish Contribution to the War Effort	This book provides much detail about the bombing of Hamburg. For instance, those German civilians who went to basements all perished in the main firestorm area. But those who went to shelters with gas and smoke-tight doors had a good chance of survival. As an American of Polish descent, I appreciate the fact that Middlebrook recognizes the skill of Polish pilots and mechanics. He also notes the fact that the Poles were not to return to a free Poland, thanks to (western-permitted) Soviet domination.	2003-09-11
US	39169752	R36WTEZ2DKZ0XB	0310264626	708558685	Limiting God	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Recounts Sinful Attitudes that Limit God	This book recounts Biblical examples of how wrong attitudes can limit God. These include disobedience, unbelief, etc. Familiar examples include the disobedience of the Israelites in the desert, followed by the 40 years of wandering. One weakness of this book, however, is insufficient detail to how God's grace can help us overcome the ways that we are limiting God in our lives.	2003-09-02
US	39169752	R2FPOJ7Q510AP6	0684846969	811486002	Your God Is Too Small	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Challenges Us to a Bigger View of God	This book helps us learn to accept God as He is rather than as we imagine Him to be. It helps those who have either an authoritarian view of God or a permissive view of Him. We must also face the fact that God does not operate in ways that we can predict. Hence, for example, the challenge of suffering and evil.	2003-09-02
US	39169752	RN8ILQRULT1AC	085572076X	227094860	The Introvert	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A Somewhat Stilted Portrayal of Introverts	This book surveys the life of the introvert from childhood all through later phases of life. While many of the difficulties which introverts experience, and Meares discusses, are real, I think that they are exaggerated. Also, Meares fails to consider the fact that people can change. In fact, many shy children grow up to be well-adjusted, if not exactly outgoing, adults. This book does not come to grips with this fact.	2003-09-02
US	39169752	R3GL7WDIMWP8V3	0781804213	199617928	The Forgotten Few: The Polish Air Force in the Second World War	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Polish Heroism and Allied Ingratitude	This book recounts the role of Polish pilots in the Allied war effort. It discusses how the Poles accounted for a disproportionate share of German planes downed over England. It also discusses the personal lives of the pilots, including the homesickness felt every Christmas. The all-but-forgotten sufferings of the Poles under both German Nazis and Soviet Communists is recounted in some detail. There is discussion of the heartbreak and outrage experienced by the pilots once they learned that the western Allies betrayed Poland to Soviet control after the war, ruling out a return home for most of the pilots. The postwar lives of some of the pilots are also recounted. The ingratitude of the British shown in politics was duplicated by much of the civilian population soon after the war. The short memory of the British, who forgot that Poles were fighting for the very survival of Britain a few short years earlier, were now clamoring for the Poles to go home. Other details are also provided.  There is even mention of a Polish pilot, decades after the war, locating, in Bavaria, the German pilot he had shot down back in September 1939.	2003-09-02
US	39169752	RVZ332TBYRBBJ	0964726009	574436707	God has spoken but what has He said?: A coherent guide to interpreting the Bible for yourself	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Invaluable Insights for Understanding the Bible	This book gives a series of guidelines for understanding Scriptures. One of these deals with the synoptic gospels, and Acts, being applicable to the future Earthly Kingdom, and not necessarily to Christians. The Gospel according to John and the Epistles provide the authoritative teaching for Christians today. I found the discussion on free will versus predestination especially helpful. Look closely and realize that nowhere does the Scripture teach that we are predestinated for salvation. Instead, it teaches that we are predestinated to do something and become something as a consequence of our (freely chosen) salvation.	2003-08-27
US	39169752	R3NU92WDB6ZZ8O	1576730360	129268418	I Kissed Dating Goodbye: A New Attitude Toward Relationships and Romance	Books	3	6	11	N	N	A Warning Against Premature Physical Committment	Harris warns against provoking emotions and sexual feelings that cannot be satisfied within a marriage. He suggests that premature physical activity short-circuits the process of getting to know the other person. He recommends that people get to know each other in social situations within the church, and through shared participation in shared ministries within the church, rather than through one-on-one dating. He suggests that traditional one-on-one dating is a rather artificial way to get to know another person in detail. He does not oppose all one-on-one dating, but suggests that this should be kept at a minimum, and only when the relationship is quite advanced.	2003-06-13
US	39169752	R3CV0WEDN0IARQ	1561790885	662737904	Finding the Love Of Your Life	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Finding Someone Similar to You	Perhaps the most striking aspect of this practical book is Warren's diagnosis for the high divorce rate of recent decades. Warren suggests that, before 1950, most people lived in the same neighborhood through their lives, and parents of newlyweds had known each other since the childhoods of those to be married. This means that most newlyweds had come from very similar backgrounds. This all changed with the high mobility rates of recent decades, which meant that potential mates are likely to be very different from oneself. And each difference leads to stress in a relationship. Warren provides a useful 50-item checklist of compatibilities in potential mates. He also gives helpful advice on conflict resolution.	2003-06-12
US	39169752	R2Y3EE1RW5RVV5	0785265392	946786743	Date...or Soul Mate? How To Know If Someone Is Worth Pursuing In Two Dates Or Less	Books	5	56	58	N	N	A Practical Guide to Evaluating Similarities and Differences	The most useful part of this book is the list of 10 must haves and the 10 can't stands. This allows one to screen potential mates quickly. Warren points out that the chief reason for divorce is the common practice of settling for someone that has one or more of the &quot;can't stand&quot; items. This is usually rationalized as &quot;I may never find anyone else&quot;, etc. The limit of 10 is a practical compromise between, say, 5 and 100 items. It accounts for the most crucial areas of compatibility and incompatibility to be accounted for, yet without being so selective that one would never be able to find a mate.	2003-06-12
US	39169752	R21NTUPKJGLU3O	1590521196	672266902	Desiring God: Meditations of a Christian Hedonist	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A &quot;New&quot; Approach to Living the Christian Faith	Christians should take pleasure in God to the point of being Christian hedonists. Such is the point of the author Piper. He illustrates, from Scripture, how even in times of suffering we can and should be delighting in God. He rebuts the &quot;superspiritual&quot; claims that we should simply do what is right without seeking a reward. To the contrary: Our Lord promises rewards for faithful service. Other Scriptures say the same.	2003-06-06
US	39169752	R2SIEPDG502NGD	0872130177	835654805	Secure forever (Bible basics)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Outstanding Exposition of the Eternal Security of Believers	The author Harold Barker points out that there are many verses in the Bible which teach the eternal security of the believer, not the one or two which are commonly cited. He also shows the many verses which are misunderstood. For example, in the book of Hebrews we read that, upon falling away, one cannot be renewed to repentence. But this does not deal with salvation. It deals with spiritual maturity. Barker draws a perceptive analogy with the Israelites who grumbled in the desert. They reached a point in their sinful rebellion wherein they could no longer be renewed to repentance and allowed to enter the Promised Land. But they still remained God's people, and, while forced to wander in the desert for 40 years, were still allowed to experience a scaled-down version of God's original promised blessings.	2003-05-15
US	39169752	R2LEOYI4V51CNL	0312315228	643981404	Atkins for Life: The Complete Controlled Carb Program for Permanent Weight Loss and Good Health	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Very Practical Guide to Everyday Diet	This book is intended for those who have already completed their weight loss program. Yet is is filled with practical advice useable at any stage of the Atkins Nutrition Management Program. This book helps further debunk the myth that the Atkins approach is about eating nothing but meat and cheese. Further scientific evidence is presented which supports the Atkins approach. In fact, Atkins spends a considerable amount of time discussing which vegetables and other carbohydrate-rich foods have a minimal effect on blood sugar, and which don't. About the only &quot;permanently forbidden&quot; foods are the high sugar ones. Personally, I found the practical advice for substitutions especially useful. For instance, instead of sugar-rich ice cream, you can have some blueberries smothered with heavy cream or a little sour cream.	2003-04-07
US	39169752	R38899J95DYXSC	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	20	22	N	N	An Outstanding and Workable Diet Plan	I have read this book, put Atkins' Induction part of the plan into use, and have experienced considerable weight loss (33 pounds at this writing). I am now in OWL and still losing weight. Atkins makes it clear that it is carbohydrates (especially excessive sugars) that are the primary cause of obesity. I do not miss any of the junk food that I used to eat. Contrary to misleading [reports], the Atkins diet, even in the Induction phase, is not an all-meat diet. Far from it. And it is based on solid scientific evidence, some of which Atkins discusses. I too have found the diet relatively easy to follow. No self-starvation or calorie counting!	2003-04-07
US	39169752	R2IRFC35URCN9E	0891099093	177883844	The Trivialization of God: The Dangerous Illusion of a Manageable Deity	Books	4	10	11	N	N	God's Holiness and God's Love; Restoring the Balance	This book hits the nail right on the head when its author states that, at one time we were taught that man exists in order to please God. Now we are being taught that God exists to please man. The author McCullough also points out that a separation from this world may also lead to abandonment of the world, a position directly contrary to Christ's teaching about reaching the world for Him. It seems that, in every age including ours, we must strike a balance between the awesomeness of God, on one hand, and the fact that God cares about every detail in our lives, on the other. This balance must also extend to avoiding the extremes of the severity of God (God watches over our every move and is ready to punish us) versus the tender loving mercies of God (God is much too sweet to send anyone to Hell).	2003-03-17
US	39169752	R2BDAQFB42EKRT	0842373195	366724186	Let's Roll!: Ordinary People, Extraordinary Courage	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Is This Horror and Heroism Already Forgotten?	This book is very timely, if only because so many Americans seem to have already forgotten that infamous day of terror that occurred only a year and a half ago. This book combines personal details, the Christian testimony of the Beamers, and what may have occurred on the doomed plane. Some details remain unanswered. For instance, were the throats of the two pilots cut (referring to the two apparently-dead persons on the floor)? If so, then the plane was doomed even if the passengers' revolt against the terrorists had been successful. The fact that the pilots had been earlier warned against \\"cockpit intrusion\\", referring to the hijacked planes which were crashed into the World Trade Center, warns us that, even with forewarning, the suicidal hijacking of US airliners could happen again.	2003-03-12
US	39169752	R37PZBQSR71HT8	0811828875	551704150	Red Scared!: The Commie Menace in Propaganda and Popular Culture	Books	3	34	58	N	N	Trivializes the Real Dangers of Communism	The political cartoons published here would make this book worth five points. The political analysis given would make it worth zero. Hence the average is 3. As is the case with most liberals, the author Barson is blind to the nature of Communism and only condemns what he considers the \\"hysteria\\" produced by anti-Communism. This is rather like warning people to be afraid of firefighters and firetrucks while saying nothing about the dangers of house fires with people inside. Barson even asserts that the fear of Communism almost destroyed American free speech. That is utter nonsense. And, far from being a time of hysteria, the Fifties were a relatively quiet time in US history. Anyway, since when is fear of a mortal enemy a form of hysteria? Typical of liberals, Barson has more concern about McCarthyism, under which not a single person died than he does of Communism, under which tens of millions were murdered. And the involvement of Communists (mostly covert ones) in the US is well documented. The Hollywood Left is well known to this day. And it was the extensive network of Communists and fellow travelers in Roosevelt's administration that allowed Roosevelt to call Stalin \\"Uncle Joe\\" and to subject Poland and the other eastern European nations to a half-century of servitude under the Soviet Union. The chief flaw of McCarthyism was the fact that it came at least twenty years too late. One of the cartoons shows Nikita Kruschev saying \\"We will bury you.\\" Does Barson suppose that Kruschev was only kidding? After all, to Barson, the threat of Communism was only imaginary.	2003-03-05
US	39169752	R3ISC7B0AR0QZN	0882800663	683693301	The Fire That Will Not Die	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Snatched From the Jaws of Death	Michelle McBride saved her life by jumping out the classroom window just as the flames were about to claim their final victims. Her body began burning just as she jumped. A second later and she would have been overcome and helpless, and sure to be the 96th victim of that horrific fire. She discusses the ordeal she faced, year after year after year. Perhaps the most surprising fact she relates was the thoughtless remarks of people.	2003-02-24
US	39169752	R15IUXFIX3ICE6	1566631025	869552450	To Sleep with the Angels: The Story of a Fire	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Very Detailed Account of a Tragic Occurrence	This book tells the account of a fire which my mother often told me about, with tears in her eyes. This book tells the conditions leading up to the fire in its tragic dimensions, notably the lack of sprinkler systems, the glass transoms above the doors, the absence of a fire door in the upper floor, and the highly combustable wood-based stairway and hallway. One can see how the smoldering fire in the stairway, probably set by a troubled child who was never charged with the act, \\"came to life\\" when a window broke, supplying fresh oxygen. Not long after the hot air, smoke, and combustable gases from the stairway fire rose up by convection and filled the hallways, trapping the class members. Worse yet, these combustion products soon flashed over, allowing the fire to suddenly set ablaze the entire hallway. Much the same happened in the attic area. Once the glass transoms separating the classrooms and now-ablaze hallway broke from the heat, the flame, heat, smoke, and toxic gasses had free access to the classrooms. What is surprising is not that 95 perished, but that many more did not. In fact, it is astonishing to learn that 150-200 were rescued by firemen. In view of the free conditions of fire spread, and the 10 minute delay between the smelling of the smoke and the first call to the fire department, it is amazing that the death toll was not much higher. THAT, in my opinion, is the most amazing fact given in this book.	2003-02-20
US	39169752	R1G6Y418SPG0XE	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	26	32	N	N	A Refreshingly Different Viewpoint	I can personally vouch for many of the claims which Lomborg makes in this paradigm-shattering book. In the first Earth Day in 1970, while in high school, I was taught, among other things, that, within 10 years or so, the human race would be dying off en masse from overpopulation, depletion of resources, and the polluted environment. Here it is 2002 and none of these predictions have come true--not even close. Instead of a population bomb (Ehrlich), we have stabilization of world population. Instead of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer, Lomborg points out that such things as food supply and basic sanitation are enjoyed by a larger and larger fraction of the world's population. Thirty years of oil only means that we have found reserves for the next thirty years. It does NOT mean that we will be out of oil thirty years from now! And, far from being some puppet of corporations, Lomborg remains left-of-center politically. A great book!	2002-10-04
US	39169752	RMM6QAVYRGQF5	0932766625	359353640	Radioisotopes and the Age of the Earth: Creationist Research	Books	5	46	57	N	N	Alternatives to Isotopic Dating	This book provides a wealth of information on alternatives to the long ages suggested by conventional isotopic dates. Much of the emphasis of this book is on the physics of radioactive decay, and how decay rates can be changed. There are also some geologically-based studies of isotopic dating techniques, and I would personally like to see more of these.	2002-05-03
US	39169752	R201Y3WGPM1K3Z	0880700688	988858383	The Life of Christ in Stereo: The Four Gospels Combined As One	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Superb Resolution to Apparent Contradictions in the Gospels	Unbelievers never tire of alleging contradictions between the Gospels. Yet if one actually takes the time to read the Gospels, it becomes obvious that the discrepancies between them are, in any case, so trivial that they do not undermine the veracity of the accounts in any way. Otherwise, one would have to discard all newspaper accounts for comparable &quot;contradictions&quot; between news accounts. Since the Gospel writers wrote independently, it is inevitable that there are superficial discrepancies between the Gospels. Cheney beautifully shows how the different Gospel accounts flow together once one realizes that the writers &quot;saw&quot; things from different angles, so to speak. Cheney correctly calls this supplementation.	2002-05-03
US	39169752	R2N4GZVVMB3KIB	0691086672	96072010	Neighbors: The Destruction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne, Poland	Books	2	33	51	N	N	My "Primary" Sources of Information Versus Gross'	The claims of this book must be neither blindly accepted (as a host of TV programs have done) nor blindly rejected. Having read it, I have also interviewed some near-witnesses living in the Chicago area (they lived several kilometers away from Jedwabne). While none of them are direct eyewitnesses to the Jews being pushed into the local barn and burned there, neither are any of Gross' \\"witnesses\\", one of whom was a Communist with an obvious axe to grind. This itself says something about the quality of Gross' book! My sources of indirect information are UNANIMOUS in their immediate word-of-mouth reports implicating the Germans, and NOT the local Poles, as the killers of Jedwabne's Jews. These sources also report the local Poles being FORCED to participate in the roundup of Jews. So either all of my sources of information are lying, or Gross' tendacious sources are lying. Which is it?  Now, as a Polish-American, I have no problem admitting Poles' faults if they are true, but will NEVER accept a false or questionable accusation as truth. I urge the same to the professional Polonophobes, as well as those Poles (including those in the present government, and even in the investigating commission) who are evidently more interested in political correctness than in arrival at the truth. I also urge that the FULL story be told. Gross' denials to the contrary, the Jewish collaboration with the Soviet Communists was large, and certainly existed as a major provocation in Polish-Jewish relations then. BOTH sides were capable of resorting to murder: Hundreds of Polish civilians, including women and children, were killed by bands of Jews in the villages of Naliboki and Koniuchy. Perhaps it is no surprise that Gross fails to discuss these facts at all. Let us hear only the truth and the full truth of these tragic events which affected both Poles as well as Jews.	2002-04-01
US	39169752	R1RH0DINMLBC5E	9653080148	146054229	The Holocaust of Volhynian Jews: 1941-1944	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Very Balanced Analysis of Ukrainian-Nazi Collaboration and the Genocides of Jews and Poles by Nazis and Ukrainian Fascists	This scholarly work was written by a Jewish author. It first describes the prewar life of Jews, and then focuses on the Soviet invasion of Wolyn (Volyn). Spector is candid about the Zydokomuna (Bolshevized Judaism) and its overt anti-Polish policies: \\"The Communists, Jews among them, welcomed the Soviets with joy. They didn't waste time in joining the local civil militias and setting up a provisory administrative apparatus. The militias helped the new rulers to disarm Polish policemen and officials and placed them under arrests. These actions aroused the wrath of the Polish public.\\" (p. 24).<br /><br />Then Nazi Germany attacked its erstwhile Soviet ally. This book details the genocidal work of German Nazis and their many Ukrainian collaborators in the mass murder of Volhynia's (Wolyn's) Jews. The scale of Ukrainian collaboration with the Nazis was staggering. In fact, the local Germans were outnumbered 10:1 by Ukrainian collaborationist police. Based on a German source, there were 15,370 Ukrainian police serving the Germans, and that only in the Volyn-Podolia region. (p. 175). Owing to the fact that the local Ukrainian population of this area was only in the few millions, this amounted to a very high rate of collaboration.<br /><br />This work conspicuously refrains from the usual purely Judeocentric approach to the Holocaust. Spector discusses the systematic genocide of at least 40,000 innocent Volhynian Polish civilians by Ukrainian fascist nationalist forces (first the Ukrainian collaborationist police, and then the OUN-UPA--the so-called Ukrainian Insurgent Army, whose slogan was \\"First the Jews, then the Poles\\"). Just as significant is what the book does NOT say. In contrast to the anti-Polish stereotypes of much popular-level Holocaust material, the book makes it clear that, with one alleged exception, pogroms of Jews conducted in 1941 (on the heels of the invading German army) were conducted by Ukrainians and not Poles. (pp. 66-67). In contrast to the usual unsubstantiated sweeping accusations of the AK (the Polish Home Army) killing fugitive Jews, Spector makes it clear that such instances were rare (even if one assumes that they were unjustified by such things as Jewish robberies and murders of Polish villagers, etc.). Spector pointedly asserts that there were NO massacres of Jews conducted by the AK. To the contrary, Spector estimates that there were 200-300 Jews openly serving in the Volynian branch of the Polish Home Army (AK)(p. 268). He even nullifies his own argument about the relative infrequency of such participation by acknowledging what Poles have been saying all along--that relatively few Jews had sufficient military training (p. 285) to make them desirable volunteers in guerrilla forces. Spector also spends considerable time in discussing how Poles frequently helped Jews.<br /><br />Having now read dozens of books about the Holocaust, I only wish that more books about the Holocaust showed such overall balance and objectivity!sweeping accusations of the AK (the Polish Home Army) killing fugitive Jews, Spector makes it clear that such instances were rare (even if one assumes that they were unjustified by such things as Jewish robberies and murders of Polish villagers, etc.). Spector pointedly asserts that there were NO massacres of Jews conducted by the AK. To the contrary, Spector estimates that there were 200-300 Jews openly serving in the Volynian branch of the Polish Home Army (AK)(p. 268). He even nullifies his own argument about the relative infrequency of such participation by acknowledging what Poles have been saying all along--that relatively few Jews had sufficient military training (p. 285) to make them desirable volunteers in guerrilla forces. Spector also spends considerable time in discussing how Poles frequently helped Jews.     Having now read dozens of books about the Holocaust, I only wish that more books about the Holocaust showed such overall balance and objectivity!	2002-04-01
US	39169752	R1KS1VJXA1U8Q2	0679748407	587113700	Maus : A Survivor's Tale. I.  My Father Bleeds History. II. And Here My Troubles Began	Books	3	14	36	N	N	An Offensive Non-Attack on Political Correctness	Having read this, I also take offense at the portrayal of Poles as pigs. Is there ANY other nationality, at ANY other time, which has successfully been portrayed as pigs, and such material been so acclaimed and even used in the classroom? I rather doubt it. Nor is this comic a repudiation of political correctness. After all, Poles (and Christians) are about the only safe groups to villify in public, if only because neither are politically powerful. Could I change my mind in this assessment? Yes. Were Spiegelman to write another cartoon book, this time depicting Jews as pigs, and there were no protests, THEN would I \\"lighten up\\" and accept the line about the current portrayal of Poles as pigs being actually non-offensive and no big deal.	2002-04-01
