US	39211270	R17SDWSZ65K9BV	1891105167	771256582	Cooking 'Round the Clock: Rachael Ray's 30-Minute Meals	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Fantastic cookbook	I grew up in a home in which eating out was the norm. My family's schedules made it too difficult for someone to spend the time cooking only to have everyone walk in late or, for that matter, at all. So, as I got older I had a certain built in aversion to the kitchen. Sure, it seemed harmless enough, but...Wouldn't I hurt myself if I tried to \\"julienne\\" something? Hey, I still might, but over the past couple of years the kitchen and I have managed to come to terms with each other. <br /> <br />Rachael Ray's books have helped with that. I may not mind the kitchen as much, but I also don't want to spend my whole day in one. So having a lot of varied options that I can get ready in a relatively short amount of time is wonderful. Plus, Ray doesn't make the novice cook feel stupid because he or she doesn't know what certain cooking terms mean. She keeps the recipes simple from the wording right on through to the ingredients. I've never had trouble finding what's necessary for the meal in my local big-chain grocery store. <br /> <br />For me, this book is the best in the series. And even though she breaks the recipes down into the time of day they may be best served, each and every one is a healthy, satisfying dinner in itself. I went through the book, marking each recipe I wanted to try with a little slip of paper, and by the time I was done it looked like I'd have a month's worth (probably more) of dinners planned out. Plus, she has recipes for simple desserts and yummy sounding hot drinks that look like they'd be great for entertaining and/or rainy nights. <br /> <br />Ray really makes cooking seem enjoyable and the cute stories she provides with some of the recipes makes her writing enjoyable as well. All I can say is that if you've enjoyed the other books in the `30 Minute' series, you'll love this one even more.	2005-01-06
US	39211270	R22JLT0SMADCUL	0312318073	279561448	Murder Is Academic: A Cambridge Mystery	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not as good as it could have been...	The description for 'Murder is Academic,' found on the inside flap of its beautifully textured jacket, gives a false impression. The way it's written conveys a sense of tension, suspense, and that the book you are holding is going to be an interesting, thoughtful and perhaps even entertaining read. That's an awful lot for a book to live up to. And, unfortunately, 'Murder is Academic' couldn't quite make it.<br />It's not that the novel wasn't good exactly. It was a quick read and not once did I think about not finishing it. However, there were a few problems. As one reviewer already noted, it would be very easy to forget that there was a mystery involved in the story at all. For the majority of the novel it takes a back seat to the personal problems of it's sleuth, Cassandra. That wouldn't bother me so much except for the fact that the mystery, when it was brought up, just wasn't all that interesting. It could have been, the potential was definitely there, but it fizzled. I found as the story progressed that I just didn't care. The reason for this may have been that, though there were three deaths in this slim novel, the reader was not given an opportunity to really get to know any of the characters who met their end and, therefore, felt no need for a resolution. And when it finally came, well, um, hurrah! Right. Sure. <br />The academic slant of the story was somewhat interesting. The professors, though they had quirks that implied entertainment, weren't fleshed out enough. In fact, it was almost as though they were handed their quirks in a pitch to make the novel more interesting. The reader didn't know them well enough to consider them anything but plot devices. Blatant red herrings. The political aspect of academic life was captured well. The push for publication and how a department rests on the scholarship of its professors was nicely and adequately shown. The studies that each of the professors were pursuing were interesting and I would have loved to have heard more about each. Cassandra's speciality came through in rather random moments of a poem remembered or a literary line quoted.<br />I have to say that though I would have cared for more of a mystery, Cassandra's life issues were plesant enough to read about. One of the most engaging characters in the novel was her lawyer boyfriend, Stephen. He was believable and sympathetic.<br />Overall, 'Murder is Academic' wasn't enough for me. I have read academic mysteries before, such as the stellar Karen Pelletier mystery series by Joanne Dobson, and know that they can be thoroughly entertaining. That they can blend academic nuances and politics, human emotion and intereaction, and an engaging mystery into a compelling read. It is my hope that if Ms Poulson writes another Cambridge Mystery, she spends more time with her characters, placing an even greater emphasis on academic life, and tightening the mystery.	2004-07-13
US	39211270	RLV7M2VPB4RID	055380314X	909112737	The Arcanum	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A very strong four stars	Whenever the words \\"Sir Arthur Conan Doyle\\" appear on the dust jacket of a novel it's a must read for me. And so when I read the synopsis for The Arcanum I was thrilled.<br />Luckily I wasn't disappointed. The concepts explored in the novel are interesting enough on their own, however, as a side note, they may have been even more powerful in the hands of another writer. But Wheeler presents them in a way to truly advance the plot and make the reader wonder at the possibility of it all. <br />But what really caught and held my attention were the characters. As I said previously, Conan Doyle is a huge drawing point for me. And Wheeler did a good job of bringing in Conan Doyle's spiritual beliefs and conveying a sense that, for his age, he was still steadfast, sure and strong. One problem I had, though, was that Conan Doyle, as a character, was uneven. He dropped the ball, so to speak, on numerous occasions, which belied some of his earlier actions and thought processes. He starts off an equal, if not superior, to his own creation in Holmes, but by the end he makes very stupid moves that leave the reader shaking their heads. I kept thinking that an editor really should have pointed it out and suggested that Wheeler rethink what he was doing with Conan Doyle. But Conan Doyle took a back seat in this novel to one H.P. Lovecraft. Of course I was aware of Lovecraft, the genre he chose to write in, and that he is widely considered to be a big influence in the horror/speculative fiction field. But I wasn't aware of what an interesting person he was. Out of all the characters, Lovecraft intrigued me the most. The way he was written, well, it made me want to go out and learn more about the man--and that is always a sign, for me, that a novel has done a good job. If it provokes enough thought that I can't wait to get back to a bookstore or library to pick up some related books then it has been well worth it. Add to the mix Houdini, whose beliefs and exploits in the world of psychics tie in very well with the themes presented by Wheeler, and Marie Leveau and you've got a very interesting circle. How these very varied characters interacted was a wonderful plus. Granted, they may not come across true to form, but it is fiction after all.<br />I was also very pleased by the demons that are unleashed. Wheeler made them very visual creatures. Often in horror novels you're given similar creatures, but they're easily passed over because you can't see them or imagine them. That is not the case here and it really added to my reading. <br />In the end I really enjoyed The Arcanum and was most glad to have purchased it. And it would not sadden me to hear that Wheeler was planning on writing a sequel.	2004-05-13
US	39211270	R24C4WOR0NSJHS	0743249925	652336182	The Bookman's Promise	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable and Engaging	For my first John Dunning novel, *The Bookman's Promise* was a great place to start. Coming in on the latest book in a series can sometimes be daunting. The characters have an established history, set up in previous books as it were, that is often referred back to and sometimes it just makes you feel like you're missing something. But that is not the case with this series. Janeway obviously has a very involved past, but I was given enough to feel as though I knew the character and didn't need to worry about what I missed by starting at the end of the series.  <br />Aside from the infinitely interesting world of rare or \\"unique\\" books, this novel focuses on one historical persona in the shape and scars of Richard Burton. Now, I had heard the name, but knew little about the person. Where some may have found the emphasis on this one particular man distracting or not as engaging as booklore, I thought just the opposite. I love learning about people like Burton, and being introduced to him as I was in this novel motivated me to learn more. When a book makes you want to go right to your local library to get a better understanding of history (or whatever it may be), well, that's fantastic. And it makes me appreciate the work of fiction all the more. And the interlude between Charlie and Burton that has been mentioned in other reviews was quite refreshing. Charlie has a lovely voice, which makes his story so enjoyable and readable. To me the book would have been missing something without it.<br />I must say that *The Bookman's Promise* was thoroughly entertaining and I'm very glad to have read it. The day I finished it I went and purchased the other two books in the Janeway series. And even though it has its flaws (I wasn't thrilled with the ending and some of the characters had annoying tendencies, but overall that's being relatively picky) I would recommend it to anyone--whether they've read the other ones or not.	2004-03-26
US	39211270	RLRH4V9SKP08B	0786867973	194529374	How to Be a Domestic Goddess: Baking and the Art of Comfort Cooking	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful	This a truly wonderful cookbook. And the first that I've ever wanted to own.<br />For a person with as yet very (very) rudimentary cooking skills I felt not a trace of intimidation after looking over numerous recipes. Finally, interesting and yummy sounding food that I just may be able to make without wasting ingredients! And no matter who you are intending to entice with any of Lawson's recipes they will no doubt be welcome and greatly appreciated. Not to mention gone as soon as it is placed in front of them! (There really is something for everyone here.) The few baking excursions I have taken since I found this book came out surprisingly well and with little effort. I've still to try some (okay most) of the harder recipes, but the success I have had so far is encouraging indeed. <br />As much as I enjoyed the food, I also enjoyed reading Lawson's remarks about each entry. Her voice is engaging and she truly gives you a great sense as to where each recipe is coming from. I never thought I would want to read a cookbook, but there you have it--I've already been through *How To Be a Domestic Goddess* twice. <br />I can't speak for Lawson's other books, but if you do like to bake (or would like to learn) this is a very good place to start.	2004-02-23
US	39211270	R2GYTCDA67DN4J	0765305089	539749596	Pride and Prescience: Or, A Truth Universally Acknowledged (Mr. and Mrs. Darcy Mysteries)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Makes for a very pleasant evening of reading	Anyone who saw the BBC's production of Pride and Prejudice became a fan of the story (if not the actual novel.) And, moreso, they became a fan of the broodingly intense Mr.Darcy. Maybe it was Colin Firth's presence, maybe it was Austen's rendering of the character, but more likely it was both. And so I actively pursued any thing that offered more of Mr.Darcy. I read numerous sequels, some good and some bad. I went back to the source. But it had been a while since I had been in his company. Until I saw this novel. <br />I was delighted by the story that Carrie Bebris told. First, of course, the relationship between Darcy and Elizabeth is lovely. It is understated, as is the Regency way, but it is strong and present. And getting both of their thoughts makes it that much better. And, already a fan of Darcy, this novel made me a fan of Elizabeth as well. I liked her enough to begin with, but her personality really shines here. Second, the mystery, though not mind-bending, is smart and believable. And surprisingly engaging. Towards the novel's end you are really involved in the resolution of the murder. The conclusion is drawn in its own time and doesn't feel the least bit rushed, which is the pitfall of too many mystery novels released of late. <br />Overall, this was a wonderful little novel. I cuddled up and read it in one night, enjoying Darcy's company immensely once more. Hopefully the next title in the Mr. &amp; Mrs. Darcy mystery series will be released soon. I can't wait to see what adventure they find themselves in next.	2004-02-12
US	39211270	R2HDO0XCBQJCP5	0425194345	830742187	Photo Finished (A Scrapbooking Mystery)	Books	4	29	37	N	N	More like 3.5, really	Laura Childs' books drive me just a little bit crazy. Sure, they're great for a couple of hours of enjoyment, but...why do I keep coming back, reading each book the woman writes? There is certainly no mental stimulation to be had and after you've finished one you don't get that rush of pleasure and satisfaction that follows a fabulous book. But it just seems to come down to the fact that, even though the books are silly, you are still entertained on some level.<br />My complaint about all of Childs' novels, and *Photo Finished* is no exception, is that her characters are very light and lacking dimension. Their motivations and thought processes often seem suspect. And silly. Have I mentioned the silliness factor? And, another complaint, the mystery is really no mystery at all. Just a crime that gets resolved (and in this case not very efficiently) at the end. The reader is still left in the dark to an extent regarding what actually happened to prompt the crime. Now that I think about it, some aspects of the book are downright aggravating. Like Carmela's husband, Shamus, and everything that goes along with their relationship. (But to go into that would be just too much.)<br />I must say, though, that it is worth it to read this particular title in the Scrapbooking mystery series simply for one of the last scenes, which had me laughing out loud quite unexpectedly. A scene that will no doubt prompt me to read the next book.	2004-02-09
US	39211270	R1IQF6097UFRN0	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	4	19	26	N	N	If only there was more to it	My expectations for this novel were high. Very high. First off, it is supposedly a novel about vampires or, rather, vampires are used in the plot. Secondly, Neil Gaiman liked the book. He really liked it. Enough to mention the title and the words possibly perfect in the same sentence. Enough said. I was buying this book.<br />I got comfy on my couch and started to read and decided that I was not loving it as I should be. What was wrong? Well, let's start with the voice. It kind of slaps you in the face in a very uninteresting way right from page one. The reason for this is kind of hard to explain. Yes, Sunshine's voice does border on being monotone, but that's not why it's uninteresting. Perhaps it's her thought patterns. With all that's going on in her life you'd think she would have more titillating things on her mind than cinnamon buns. Yes, those cinnamon buns may ground her, but I feel like the kid who ate ten of them in an hour and is so sick of them that the thought of another is enough to...Yeah, you get the idea. Even when her thoughts turned to something that got you on the edge of your seat Sunshine stopped short. If what was going on in her mind was engaging, for one, I may have enjoyed the novel more.<br />Vampire lovers beware. This is not a novel about vampires and they are used very loosely in the plot. It was as though, in order to avoid all of the clichés, McKinley decided to not have the vampires around all that much. The one cliché she does avoid is actually, to this reader, not welcome at all. Constance, an important character/vampire who is rarely physically in the story, is \\"pasty.\\" He's gray and his laugh is awful and there is very little that is appealing about him. I'm sorry, but vampires are sexy and seductive and that's part of what makes them so lethal. The fact that Sunshine finds Con next to revolting puts a kink in the fact that she is drawn to him. Hey, he's a nice vampire and he didn't eat anyone, but please. They may have a bond,but surprisingly it's not enough to make her reaction to him okay. For some it might be refreshing--you know, the fact that a vampire is actually considered gross--but not me. And despite all this, Con is still probably the most interesting character in the novel. I guess I was just really hoping for more from the vampire aspect of the book. <br />It feels like there should be more to the book. Characters are introduced that have a back story that is never explained. Even though we really want it to be. And the ending is unsatisfactory. A friend of mine who also read it said that there should be a sequel and she was right. There needs to be more/something else because I enjoyed the story, but not as much as I should have, and a sequel may help me to appreciate SUNSHINE in the way that I should have.	2003-10-06
US	39211270	R25W8CSJWJWGIM	042519129X	802961375	The English Breakfast Murder (A Tea Shop Mystery)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Better than the last, but still...	I'm not entirely sure this installment in the Tea Shop Mystery series deserves a full four stars, but it was certainly better than the last book. <br />The major problem with both 'The English Breakfast Murder' as well as the previous book in the series is that the crime (or murder) just can't be taken seriously because of the pursuit of the killer. The guilty party inevitably falls into the laps of both reader and Theodosia Browning. To the credit of 'English Breakfast' Theo did attempt to take threads and weave them together in order to solve the murder. But, unfortunately, it wasn't enough to make the reader (or at least myself) feel very satisfied with the conclusion. And speaking of conclusions, the end of this little novel seemed far too rushed. It seriously read as though Ms.Childs was under the stress of a looming deadline and slapped a last chapter on the end just to get it over with and to the publisher. <br />Despite that, though, I actually did enjoy the book. Moreso than the last. Yes, it had its whiny moments and it is indeed one of the lightest mysteries I'll ever read, but still. It made for a few pleasant hours.	2003-09-14
US	39211270	R22Z5LZG3GMVKA	0312291043	404741763	The Night Calls	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Atmospheric and absorbing	Sherlock Holmes. Very few names are as evocative as that one. And yet there are many questions and speculations surrounding the creation of that marvelous fictional detective. It has been said that the only way to gain any true knowledge of Holmes is through his creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. David Pirie must subscribe to that train of thought as well and has therefore devised a background for Doyle. In so doing, Pirie gives us an imaginative glimpse into the relationship between the writer and Dr. Joseph Bell, the man credited with being the inspiration for Holmes himself. <br />`The Night Calls' is first and foremost a thoroughly atmospheric, not to mention a completely absorbing, story. Each setting and scene is described in careful detail, which lends the prose a rich density that manages to escape any sense of being cumbersome. The reader is allowed to take to the streets of Edinburgh and London right alongside Doyle and Bell. Yes, those streets are dark and unsavory, but you would never think of turning back. And even though Pirie takes the mystery on a couple of tangent jaunts that may seem unnecessary, the heart of it remains compellingly close and \\"concludes\\" in a highly chilling manner. <br />After reading the Historical Note included at the end of the novel, I was surprised to find just how much of Doyle's real life had been snuck into the narrative. Pieces of the man's history that you think must have been part of the fiction turned out to be true and you appreciate the way the story was crafted even more for it. This is the type of novel that makes you want to learn more. More about Doyle himself, about the real-life serial killer that plagues Bell and Doyle throughout, and more about the women's movement that rose up during the time. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed `The Night Calls' and have since purchased `The Patient's Eye' which actually precedes this novel. I am also anticipating the dvd release of `The Murder Rooms', a miniseries upon which the novels were based.	2003-08-28
US	39211270	R1LP9ZAJ7Y3XPY	0441010652	440065240	Something from the Nightside (Nightside, Book 1)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Not original but still a good read	This little novel attempts a whole lot. It starts off in classic noir fashion. A private investigator operating out of a dark, run down office finds work a little hard to come by. But in walks a blonde broad (sorry, I'm having Bogart flashbacks here) with a cold countenance and a lot of money. Someone near to her has gone missing and she's willing to do whatever it takes to get her back. So, the reluctantly good-hearted PI takes the case, and the novel changes. A windowless subway train takes the reader into a fantasy world similar to, though not nearly as well-drawn as, Neil Gaiman's `Neverwhere`. The Nightside is another version of London Below. (Only maybe a little more openly vicious.) It would appear as though Simon Green has tried to combine Gaiman's atmosphere with Jim Butcher's (of the Dresden Files fame) mystery/PI world. Green's novel is good, but...<br />Because it's components aren't original the story perhaps isn't as good, or rather can't be appreciated as much, as it might otherwise have been. John Taylor has the potential to be a strong character, which may mean that any future titles in (what seems to be) this new series could be better than `Something from the Nightside'. Fortunately for Green, Taylor is his own man. His issues are similar to those of say Harry Dresden, but there's something in his thought process, something in the way he acts and figuratively walks, that makes him different. After finishing this first title, I want to know about his mother just as much as he does. In that regard, Green has obviously done something right. <br />The secondary characters, often very important to a novel/story of this sort, are interesting if not particularly compelling on their own. I don't want more of their individual histories and it wouldn't bother me so much if they didn't appear in any future John Taylor title either. However, as a group, they do add something and you just know that they are going to influence the course of John Taylor's life drastically. And as far as the setting goes, the Nightside is an interesting enough place. Gaiman's London Below is far more imaginative and engaging, but Green has created a believable enough fantasy world. <br />In and of itself, 'Something from the Nightside' isn't wonderful, but if it is indeed a series and does continue with some of the plot points raised in the first, I will read them all. (3.5 stars)	2003-07-28
US	39211270	R3RBV4QRJT4QUC	0425190749	416095604	Keepsake Crimes (A Scrapbooking Mystery)	Books	3	41	46	N	N	Writing too many novels perhaps?	Cozy mysteries are great. They're light and quick and enjoyable. However, when the word \\"mystery\\" is attatched to the \\"cozy\\" bit the author really should follow through. <br />Childs' budding new series has many of the same characteristics as her Tea Shop Mystery series. The setting is strong and definite. She knows the area(s) she's dealing with and seems to delight in describing them to the reader. There are numerous quirky secondary characters that are loyal and supportive and always there at the right times. But there is also the same repetition, the same breeziness, the same lame inner dialogue that makes you go a little crazy because, really, I think we're all just a little more intelligent than that. And then there's the \\"mystery\\" part. Right. <br />There really is no mystery. There is a crime, granted. But it's either too easily solved (with little detection work on the part of the protagonist) or just not all that interesting. In other words, you don't care much either way. And the crime and resolution in *Keepsake Crimes* is almost silly. It's very obvious that it's a new series start and it seems like Laura Childs' is more concerned with her character interaction than her crime. <br />It's not that this novel was bad or unreadable, but even those of us who like the occasional \\"cozy mystery\\" needs a little mystery there.	2003-06-02
US	39211270	RX6R3S2D3XFPN	0425188213	231845903	Shades of Earl Grey (A Tea Shop Mystery)	Books	3	21	23	N	N	Not the best in the series...	I have thoroughly enjoyed Laura Childs' Tea Shop Mysteries from the first. However, *Shades of Earl Grey* is not quite up to par with the previous two.<br />Sure, the setting is still just as cozy, and the little pieces of tea knowledge just as interesting, but the story is lacking. The characters, for some reason, seem too breezy this time round. There is little depth to any of them. To be honest, they come across as almost silly. They are constantly going around spouting &quot;poor him,&quot; &quot;poor her,&quot; &quot;poor baby.&quot; The repetition of the word poor is bad enough, but the rest of the dialogue is also rather unrealistic. And there really is no mystery. There are crimes and suspects, but the investigation in no way reveals any true talent on the part of Theo Browning and it's basically pure luck that catches the thief. <br />*Shades of Earl Grey* is a very, very light mystery. It's enjoyable, but by no means engrossing or even particularly satisfying. It's a nice little book that would be great for killing some time. But even though this particular title in the series wasn't the best, I'd have to say that I'll still read the ones that follow.	2003-02-03
US	39211270	R1T5UFQ2A21LRG	0553381520	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	4	60	64	N	N	Refreshing take on Sherlock Holmes	At least once or twice every year I find myself in a Holmes state of mind. Basil Rathbone makes numerous appearances on my screen at this time and books--by Conan Doyle as well as others--are strewn across the couch. And even though this has been going on for years, my first experience with Mary Russell and Laurie King's Holmes came only two days ago. A new name has indeed been added to my yearly Holmes phase.<br />Laurie King's Holmes is subtle. And it is because of that that he is entirely believable, and what's more, remarkably likeable. As another reviewer noted, under King's hand and through Mary Russell's eyes the aging detective is human, almost fallible. Little gestures, small displays of emotion, makes the reader care about him on a personal level that cannot be reached when he is shown only as the master of deduction. King's treatment of this classic fictional figure has added a new element to my devotion. I absolutely cannot wait to read the rest of the series to see how Holmes progresses in this regard.<br />Russell is a strong protagonist. Admittedly, when I first started the book I had a problem with the fact that she was fifteen years old--the voice didn't seem quite right, or believable. I suppose it's not completely out of the scope of reason that a fifteen year old was/is capable of having a quick, intelligent mind, but one that could compete on a level with Holmes? (One, no less, that had seemingly little challenging education other than the books she constantly had her nose in.) I'm not entirely sure about that. It may just be that she intrigued him with the intelligence she displayed for her age, but that doesn't seem to be the case, at least not totally. I just found it rather curious that King decided to have her meet Holmes at such a young age. However, this was a very little thing in the overall scheme, and it might, in part, be explained away by the fact that she is actually telling the story from an older point-of-view.<br />The set-up ofthe novel was wonderful in that the first half stayed true to the short stories of Conan Doyle being presented a case at a time as they were. Each case could have been read on its own, but added to the whole picture that the novel made. The final case is the focus, or the main mystery, and is a satisfying one at that. A good challenge for the budding partnership of Holmes and Russell, but not so much for the reader because once the leading clues are given there's very little to figure out from there.<br />If the remaining Mary Russell books are of the same quality as `The Beekeeper's Apprentice' then this series will be a fixture in my personal Holmes library. (As a side note, Carole Nelson Douglas's Irene Adler series pits another strong woman with a brilliant mind against poor Holmes--and she`s straight out of Conan Doyle's story 'A Scandal in Bohemia'.)	2002-10-10
US	39211270	RXOH2EAKIW01G	031286941X	217027920	Castle Rouge: An Irene Adler Novel	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Not quite as engaging as 'Chapel Noir'	`Castle Rouge`, like it's precursor, `Chapel Noir`, is a thorough novel. The upside to such a book being that the reader is treated to intricate details, a strong sense of atmosphere, and dynamic characters. The downside, however, is that it doesn't become necessarily intriguing, or engaging for that matter, until you have passed the three hundred page mark. Having felt this way with `Chapel Noir' as well, I knew that if I were to wait out the novel I would be rewarded with a satisfying reading experience at the end. I was--and was not--correct in my assumption.<br />As `Chapel Noir's did, `Castle Rouge`s narration takes shape under the watchful eyes of numerous characters. Adler's constant companion, Nell, is back. Pink, an American journalist and temporary (not to mention annoying) sidekick, is also present with her side of the intrigue. The series of entries \\"found\\" in a yellow notebook show up again as well. However, new to `Castle Rouge' is Sherlock Holmes' confidante, Watson. His voice is one of the most sustaining aspects of the first half of the novel, which otherwise tends to be a tad slow-going, and the reader feels rather bereft when he no longer takes part in the telling of the story. <br />The arrival of Quentin Stanhope, around page three hundred and twenty, is when it starts to pick up pace. Irene and company get mobilized and begin to actively track the missing Nell and husband Godfrey. The focus on the Ripper at this time, though, isn't as strong. For that matter, throughout the whole of the novel the focus on the vicious killer becomes skewed. The story becomes more about the relationship between the various players and how they are dealing with whatever particular circumstance they find themselves in.  To that end, I enjoyed meeting Godfrey and further found Bram Stoker to be a charming fellow.<br />However, the crime/mystery aspect seriously started to suffer. I felt that this novel wasn't one that invited the reader to solve the mystery. The yellow notebooks, our only direct clue to aid in answering the question of Jack the Ripper, are, in retrospect, misleading. And, ultimately, the claim made in terms of his identity was implausible to me. I read the afterword, shook my head, and had to read it again to make sure I had read it correctly the first time. Douglas, as far as I'm concerned, went way out on a limb, perhaps a bit too far. In general the actual climax happens too quickly when you think about the time and word count it took to get there and then on top of that the novel ends too abruptly for my taste. I kept searching the cover and author information to see if it mentioned another upcoming title in the series, but met with no such luck.<br />`Castle Rouge' is not the type of sequel that can be read independently; it relies heavily on occurrences in `Chapel Noir`. (And, as far as I'm concerned, earlier titles in the Irene Adler series as well.) But it is a must read for those that did indeed enjoy `Noir`. It is not as graphic and not quite as believable as the first installment. The character interaction was well-done and since I'm quite curious as to the nature of Quentin and Nell's relationship I will read the first titles in the series when they are re-released. Even though it was disappointing, I am glad to have read it.	2002-09-28
US	39211270	R2PI5HKO674B6I	0838906745	792856514	Building the Service-Based Library Web Site: A Step-By-Step Guide to Design and Options (Ala Editions)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A poor, ineffective tool	If you are just starting, if you have no idea of how to even remotely begin construction on your library's web site, than this book might be of some help to you. Maybe.<br />However, if you've got a basic plan or if you are going to be working on an existing site for the first time you may want to look elsewhere for guidance. *Building the Service-Based Library Web Site* starts off by assuming that you have little to no understanding of how the web works. Which is fine. But it shifts gears fairly quickly and starts liberally using HTML terms and techniques that aren't adequately explained in the text, and that could prove to be confusing for those with no HTML experience. It also assumes that your library does not already have a web site and proceeds to give the most advice on how to put your catalog online. Few libraries in my region do not have a web site to their credit so this hardly seems necessary. Other advice, such as &quot;avoid cluttering it with too much detail about your library&quot;, is just absurd. Besides the catalog, basic information about the library is what brings our patrons to our page. <br />I recently took on the task of redesigning a section of my library's web site--I started with very little knowledge of just how it would be done. Ideas weren't the problem, but implementing them proved to be. I've been working on it for some months now and I picked up this book, hoping that I would be able to strengthen what I've already put in place. It wasn't much help. <br />My suggestion would be to write out a basic plan for what you have in mind for your site(for this you might want to visit other library sites, and the book does actually provide you with the means to do this effectively and simply); find out as much about the program(Dreamweaver, etc.)you will be using as you can; and have a book that outlines the basics of coding close to hand. You'll learn on your own what works and how you can make it work more quickly than you'll get help from this book.	2002-09-06
US	39211270	R2S2X5ON0I2UR1	0679735909	627682796	Possession	Books	3	24	33	N	N	I want to like this, I may like it yet, but for now....	I cannot quite take in hand my feelings about this peculiar novel to adequately examine them. All I know is that I've been chased by a compulsion to do just that. <br />The subtitle of the novel is `A Romance' and, in order to comply with this promise in the most literal way, the reader is presented with two couples, two loves. Byatt's notion of love is, though interesting in numerous ways, so different from mine that I often found myself unable to sympathize. The idea of two Victorian poets falling in love throughout the course of written correspondence is wonderfully romantic in a very traditional sense. So then why, as I read the letters, was I frowning? Why was I left cold? There was passion for sure, but it was an intellectual passion. A passion that did not seem to truly transcend the mind. And this isn't limited to the relationship between the Victorian lovers. The intimacy between Maud and Roland was tinged with frigidity--their relationship, however, has facets that saved it from being written off. I was hardly expecting, nor did I want, a historical romance novel. But one does not need to sacrifice heat to maintain respectability. I cannot, on some level, accept the relationship between Ash and La Motte, which, no doubt, altered my reaction to more than one aspect of the novel. <br />I wanted to be caught up, \\"possessed,\\" by Ash's and La Motte's sentiments for each other as Roland and Maud were (though I can hardly reason why they were.) I wasn't. I wanted to be taken in by the lush prose I had read so much about before even attempting to read the novel. But for such an exquisite sense of detail, I was hardly moved by Byatt's descriptive passages. There was nothing particularly lyrical about the prose, not, I would say, when compared to some other writers who have the ability to fill pages with the most beautiful observations about something as mundane as sleep. Instead it seemed stilted. All those dashes and incomplete thoughts breaking up the narrative.And at times, though I hate to admit it, it was a guessing game as to which character was speaking. It was necessary to go back to the beginning of the exchange and trace the conversation all over again. <br />And I'll forever wonder why the instigator, Fergus Wolf, drops out of sight. That seems unreasonable.<br />I also don't think it's fair to suggest that Christabel La Motte was even \\"loosely\\"  based on Christina Rossetti. Similarities are sparse, limited, perhaps, to a strong religious devotion, an epic poem based on fairy tale like creatures, and that she remained unmarried. Rossetti, as far as I have found, was considered to be a meek woman with a somewhat weak constitution. It would be much more reasonable to speculate that La Motte was modeled after Dickinson. Whereas Rossetti was inclined to write religiously, Dickinson was more open with her ideas and metaphors. And La Motte's style of writing is more compatible with Dickinson as well. Plus, Dickinson's Master letters suggest a spark that Rossetti lacked but that La Motte was well aware of in herself. <br />What stuck most in my mind was the inability on the part of both couples to reconcile themselves to leading a life less solitary. Which is where the many layers of possession comes to the surface. I loved the image of the empty white bed that Roland and Maud needed to cling to. <br />Delving into the depths of this novel is not something that can be done over the period of a day nor, I doubt, even over a week. And it is certainly a novel that needs to be read more than once to appreciate. It isn't a particularly happy work. There's little enough hope for any of the characters. However, I'm happy that I read it because it does stay, it does compel you to think about it further. The more I think about it, the more it seems this novel is less \\"mystery,\\" less \\"love story,\\" and more the \\"lit theory\\" that it also claims to be.	2002-07-30
US	39211270	R2BKI4WN1GIRF8	0393976041	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	53	57	N	N	For the extras alone...	The story is timeless. Therefore I won't be reviewing the text as it were. But I felt it necessary to remark on this particular version of *Pride and Prejudice*.<br />The Norton Critical Editions are generally favored among academic communities because they offer biographic information, notes on language, and other essays regarding the novel along with the text itself. In a way, it's a more acceptable version of cliffs notes.<br />The extras offered in the Norton edition of *Pride and Prejudice* are some of the best that I've seen in the series. It gives an account of Austen from quite a few of her biographers, includes letters between the author and her family and friends, and also offers critical analysis of themes in the novel. And if that's not enough, it gives one better. An interview with Colin Firth, the man who brought Darcy to life in the BBC film adaptation, that was first published in the somewhat hard to find book on the making of the film.<br />For those that have yet to read Austen's *Pride and Prejudice,* this is a wonderful version to start with. In case you find yourself struggling with the language it provides a definition or a more accessible word. The essays as well help to bring the characters to light. Plus, for those that have seen the film version and wish to read the book again(or for the first time)this is a must if for the Firth interview alone. This is a nice, solid book that just feels good in hand.	2002-07-16
US	39211270	R2RY1XLNF7CEMR	0963094491	674911508	Arbitrary Placement of Walls	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Find &quot;The Story So Far&quot; somewhere else	Perhaps I should have been more impressed, but, unfortunately, I saw little to differentiate Soukup from anyone else. <br />The most disappointing factor for me was my inability to connect with any of the characters in any way. In some instances it was just because they came across as flat, unsympathetic, their motivations unclear. A few stories had endings that just didn't merit the time for true understanding. And overall the writing wasn't particularly outstanding. There wasn't a line, an idea, that really struck me. That caught in my head and wouldn't leave.<br />After all the really outstanding reviews I've read for this book I was expecting to love it. But, at best, I thought it was mediocre. The only exceptional story was &quot;The Story So Far&quot;--that one lived up to the standards set by other reviewers. The style was fresh and it made me want to read on. Otherwise, I could have done without this particular collection.	2002-07-12
US	39211270	R3W1BW1Y3PQGQM	0345433785	646178453	Newton's Cannon (The Age of Unreason, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Looking forward to the next Age of Unreason	The five stars might be a tad enthusiastic, but I've just finished the novel--I'm still hovering on the wave of energy that an entertaining book leaves me in. The kind of entertainment that *Newton's Cannon* provided was one of quickly turned pages, reluctance to put it down, and a keen eagerness to start the next in the series. Yeah, it was fun.<br />For one who did more than passably well in science I seem to have forgotten quite a bit of it, but found that this did not affect my reading in any way. I was too busy trying to figure out what was going to be said next, what was going to be revealed, and by whom. Keyes utilized an alternating point of view pattern that enhanced the 'suspense,' if you will, and drew the reader in. At one point, I was more concerned with Ben's whereabouts and next I knew I was on the verge of skimming just so I could get back to Adrienne.<br />I was thoroughly, and surprisingly, pleased with *Newton's Cannon&quot;. It's sparked an interest in me to go find out what I can about alchemy and to reacquaint myself with Sir Isaac. Very much so a worthwhile read.	2002-07-10
US	39211270	RXR9A76PEXJ2W	0195145046	228609127	Dictionary of Ancient Deities	Books	5	42	45	N	N	The best starting place you could find...	Go to the mythology section of any bookstore and peruse the shelves--what is the ratio of Greek/Roman &amp; Norse mythology to any other? As much as I love delving deeper into the more well known myths/religions, a little variety would be wonderful. And it just so happened that one day it was necessary. <br />I was hunting about for some information on Egyptian and Slavic mythology, but found precious little on the latter and only a little more on the former. That's when I came across the *Dictionary of Ancient Deities*. I flipped to the index and found every name that I was looking for(including some obscure ones that I had found no mention of in any other books.) This wonderful reference tool spans just about every continent and gives a concise accounting of people, places, etc.<br />Sure, the entries may not be incredibly long, but it's the best starting place I've yet to find. And even just thumbing through it, stopping when an interesting name or ritual popped out at me, gave me some interesting writing ideas. *The Dictionary of Ancient Deities* is surely a must for anyone wishing to explore world mythology.	2002-07-06
US	39211270	R3LOKLVL4LSWDV	188964403X	393042324	What I Thought I Saw: New York - London	Books	3	0	0	N	N	For perhaps three photographs alone...	I'm thinking that three stars might perhaps be too harsh, but, seeing as how there are no half stars available to us, it shall have to do.<br />Perhaps I should explain my motivations in wanting to get this book. I've recently become quite the Neil Gaiman fan, and having read *Neverwhere* a matter of months ago, I was very eager to see how the book might have been interpreted by a camera or, rather, a person with a camera. I was, um, surprised by the photographs in this collection.<br />Now, I haven't seen the filmed version of *Neverwhere* so I'm not sure if this in alters my reaction to the photography. But I found that the photos that I had the most affinity for(with the exception of one entitled &quot;Penetration,&quot; which I've yet to determine its connection to the whole Neverwhere thing, if indeed there is one)are the ones that depict Neil Gaiman himself. There's a remarkably beautiful one of Gaiman holding one of his children when she was a baby. It's an image that adds a piece to the puzzle that most authors tend to be.<br />There are only ninty-five pages in *What I Thought I Saw,* a photograph on every other one. The introduction by Gaiman is, as always, charming. And the afterword by Bickman herself is infectious. So, I'd say it's a very nice book to flip through once, maybe twice, but not necessary to a collection.	2002-07-04
US	39211270	R33TZ8RUBYEZ7T	096906098X	647633786	Dave's Quick 'n' Easy Web Pages : An Introductory Guide to Creating Web Sites	Books	4	4	4	N	N	HTML Simplified	When I agreed(okay, well, volunteered)to recreate a section of my employer's website I was, perhaps, a bit too confident in my skills. I am by no means computer illiterate, but I had very little experience with HTML and all else that is needed to design a webpage. <br />I was to be working with a well known web development program and tried as best I could to learn through the tutorials and such. Ha. Let's just say that didn't work out so well. And this program is suppose to make things easy. One of those, \\"even idiots can use this because this and that are already done for you\\" type things. But I guess I like doing things the hard way.<br />And that's where *Dave's Quick 'n' Easy Web Pages* came in. It details in very simple terms HTML coding, showing you what the page would look like in code and also what it would look like in a browser. Things like hyperlinks and how to insert become far less daunting with the instructions in this book.<br />I don't think that it matters that it was written by a very young man or that the publisher has seen fit to classify it as a young adult text. I found it infinitely more useful and usable than a good deal of the other books I picked up for help.	2002-06-28
US	39211270	RGBZGXRZPV1JW	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A kind of fantastical escape...	So I was late in finding Neil Gaiman. But I picked up *American Gods,* fell in love with it, and quickly sought out all else by Gaiman. This search, of course, brought me to *Neverwhere*.<br />Now, where my reaction to *American Gods* was immediate and fierce, *Neverwhere* simmered. The last page turned, I was pleased and disappointed. The story was entertaining and humorous--with villians like Croup and Vandemar, how could it be anything else? But it didn't make me turn the pages with the same anticipation. For a week or so after I tried to figure out why this was.<br />It's some kind of cosmic law that whenever you a read a truly satisfying book, whatever you read immediately after is doomed to disappoint. And I should chalk up a good deal of my reaction to this law. However, there were some points that substantiate it. Such as the fact that this novel seemed a tad bit rushed. Characters, places, plots--they all had substance, but at times they didn't seem fleshed out. I cared about Richard and Door and the rest, but moreso in retrospect than while I was reading. And the ending. Well, it didn't seem like the right place to have an ending. Recent questions put forth to Neil Gaiman in regards to a sequel have brought positive responses. Which rather nullifies my complaint about that issue. <br />And I also realized that the content of the two novels completely separate them. *Neverwhere* seems to be pure entertainment. You're meant to enjoy the fantastical people and places, it's suppose to allow you the same kind of escape that Richard Mayhew finds in London Below. And, after it simmered, I realized that it fulfilled all of its purposes.	2002-06-21
US	39211270	R1YUS6SLTL4PNB	1901285375	100430123	Journey by Moonlight	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Death is a Character	The most compelling character in this novel is dead. Tamas appears only as a memory, a ghost, haunting Mihaly, the central character, until he is sick with nostalgia. It's the death of this friend, indeed the very concept of death itself, that drives the novel.<br />Death is an ever present character in *Journey by Moonlight*. It is sometimes regarded intellectually. Occassionally it is childlike, willful almost in its unconditional yearning. But it is always intimately there. I've hardly ever seen death approached with so little fear, so little trepidation, in a novel before. Usually, if a character is willing to die, it is because they are resigned to it. Here they desire it. And, in the case of Tamas, they make it happen. I found the many interpretations and mythologies of death and suicide to be quite interesting. I regarded it as a learning experience that kept me turning the pages. <br />The characters, the ones we are suppose to have some feeling for, are disappointing. They're not flat--in fact, they are quite multi-dimensional--but they lack sympathetic substance. In this case, the less you knew about the character, the more interesting and likable/dislikable they were. That would be, perhaps, my only true complaint. Oh, and also that an individual's dialogue lasted for five or six pages without pause. It played havoc with the pacing even if it was nicely written.<br />So, I would have given the novel 3.5 stars if I could have, but I'll just use the extra half a star as a bravo to Pushkin Press for releasing a quality book with rich paper and a neat typeset.	2002-06-11
US	39211270	R3QNZ4FD6JXVB9	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Quite impressive	A friend of mine told me, more than once, that I had to read this book. He was quite insistent about the whole thing because he knows I have an abiding love for all things mythological, especially Norse. I had picked it up, put it down, you know the routine, but didn't acutally buy it till I had a long plane ride looming in front of me. Turns out I should have listened to my friend to begin with(and I liked the book enough to actually tell him that, too.)<br />The thing that caught my attention, and held it as the book went on, was just how clever Gaiman was in terms of weaving bits of Norse mythology throughout the story. I sat there, shaking my head, smiling, as something familiar popped up, fell into place. This whole aspect of it was so wonderfully done that that would have been enough to sustain me, to keep me thinking about the book long after I reluctantly put it aside.<br />But, the thing is, Gaiman created some really wonderful, compelling characters to popluate his America. Shadow was a wonderful protagonist. I liked being in his mind, following him around, waiting to see how he'd handle whatever was going to come at him next. He's never adequately described(except for everyone constantly pointing out that he's &quot;big&quot;)and yet you get a picture perfect image of him in mind. And there is a score of secondary characters that, as long as they meant you no harm, you'd eagerly welcome into your life.<br />There are some aspects of the novel that seem unfinished. One particularly that I would like to have seen more of was Shadow's encounter with Bast--it seemed like there should have been something more there and I would have ate it up if there had been. And there are other little tidbits/questions that are never assigned an answer or explanation. However, this doesn't take away from the novel, but instead compels you to come up with some explanation of your own.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, didn't want to put it down, and will definitely pick it up to read again. Plus, I just bought *Neverwhere*, so Gaiman must have left a favorable impression in my mind.t up to read again. Plus, I just bought *Neverwhere*, so Gaiman must have left a favorable impression in my mind.	2002-06-10
US	39211270	RFKJM2TIREWUE	087113795X	996091853	Peace Like a River	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Perhaps not so wonderful for all	I believe I was well into the second page when I got a keen urge to read *To Kill a Mockingbird*--the taste of it was on my tongue, I guess you could say. Perhaps it was because the child narrator, Rube, put me in a Scout state of mind. Or, perhaps, as I read on it was because there was a father of strong morals, a trial, an accused man breaking free. It seemed to me that Enger took a page from Lee's classic novel. Now, this wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing if the new novel were able to stand up on its own. But, to be honest, I'm not entirely sure if *Peace Like a River* was able to pull that off.<br />The children, I suppose, are what bothered me first. One expects a certain level of irrationality even in a child whose wisdom seems to exceed any notion of age. After all, he/she is still a kid. And yet, as I read, irrationality was a rare thing to find in young Swede and Rube--what's worse, when it was present, it was more than a little, well, annoying. And not in the way that irrationality tends to be, either. You end up thinking, if they could handle other circumstances so incredibly well, why aren't they following suit now? Swede, with a talent that some published writers don't seem to possess, and brother Rube hardly seemed to be children at all. And, when they do revert, it seems so grossly out of character that it's rather hard to sympathize with them. <br />The heavy religious theme, as well, sat a little uneasily. It seemed contrived. A way to fix things in plot that would have otherwise been fairly sticky. And, what's worse, the very first consideration of miracles was so beautiful that I was disappointed when those miracles became overused.<br />I'm giving this novel four stars because the writing is quite nice and often there is a thought there that you feel the better for having read. I don't doubt there are readers that would absolutely love this book--I can see its appeal, even if it doesn't appeal completely to me. However, it would probably be a good thing to read a few chapters before investing too much time in it. You may find that it's for you, but then, you may find that it isn't.	2002-05-28
US	39211270	R1BUWWW4137B8J	0020199856	737772058	The Love of the Last Tycoon	Books	4	34	37	N	N	Luminous and Fresh	It's really a shame that Fitzgerald never had the chance to finish this novel. Or, for that matter, to have written just a chapter or two more.<br />In Monroe Stahr, the hero and last tycoon, Fitzgerald has created a character to rival Gatsby's charisma--in fact, if Stahr had been more fully developed, as the working notes included with text hinted that he would have been, it's very possible that he would have exceeded Gatsby in that regard. Stahr is ultimately a compelling man of mixed personas, and because of such you care about him, you wonder at him, and you're almost happy that Fitzgerald was never able to doom him to the tragic ending that he had in mind. <br />The most wonderful aspect of this novel is that it seems to me as though Fitzgerald was taking some kind of risk with it. I cannot put my finger on exactly what makes this so, but there is a different mood, a different energy to it. It's like we're seeing what Fitzgerald could have been like, unburdened of care and freshly in love with writing and life. It's a side of this superb writer that I would have dearly liked to have seen more of.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed *The Love of the Last Tycoon*--I realized, perhaps even moreso than after reading Gatsby, that Fitzgerald's romanticism shines in everything that he does, adding a luminous quality to his prose that proved ellusive to a great number of his peers.	2002-05-21
US	39211270	RC5LFK08LJ7KZ	1569800197	124069807	The William Saroyan Reader	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Surprisingly strong stories	William Saroyan is a wonderful writer for would-be writers to take a deeper look at. Not because his prose is so wonderful or because his stories are so engaging, but because he states most succinctly what every writer feels. That, though they have plenty of written pages, they feel like they have said nothing at all. And if Saroyan can feel this way and still produce what he has, well, there is hope then.<br />&quot;Oranges&quot; and &quot;Finlandia&quot; are the stand-out pieces in the collection as far as I'm concerned, though many others have a thought or two that linger. &quot;Oranges&quot; is heartbreaking, a story about a little orphan boy forced to sell oranges on the street corner, a little orphan boy who doesn't know what it is to laugh. And &quot;Finlandia&quot; deals with the idea of time and geography in a very thought provoking and musical manner. Many images and sounds are striking. <br />I was rather surprised myself that I liked Saroyan's work and ended up keeping the book when I had thought to donate it to a local library.	2002-05-13
US	39211270	R34XZUKIN6C6FW	0395825261	529201682	Time & Money	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Wonderful collection	I have often struggled with simplicity. For a piece of writing to be luminous it must be laden with words, and through all of those words abstraction will make us feel as though the effort marks it as wondrous, right? Perhaps, but Matthews offers only concrete images, words that mask very little but bring beauty to every circumstance they would illuminate. Here, simplicity serves poet and reader very well.<br />My favorite piece is &quot;Social Notes from All Over: Mt. Olympus&quot;--the classical, fantastical setting is infinitely appealing. Matthews has gods &quot;cross dressing as mortals&quot; ever aware, though just as eager to remain deluded, that all they have is nothing at all. If I paid for this poem alone I would have been satisfied.<br />There is a great deal of grief in these pages, and more than a little bit of sadness, but as trite as it sounds, there is a sense of elation to be found as well. Poetry should always leave us with some thought, we should think of it fondly, want to recite it if only to ourselves if we can--Matthews affirms all that.	2002-05-12
US	39211270	R1PAGHLZCRLT1T	0812579135	698959911	The Last Prince of Ireland (Celtic World of Morgan Llywelyn)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Not up to Llywelyn standards	*The Last Prince of Ireland,* though its historical accuracy seems to be above par, does not have the same impact that other Llywelyn novels have had. <br />The details are rich and abundant, but instead of bringing the suffering and minior triumphs to life, they seem to weigh the novel down. Point of view shifts are numerous and abrupt, though not necessarily confusing, but I wonder about how truly effective they are. However, what bothered me the most about this novel is that the characters inspired little emotion in me. After being blown away by Llywelyn's *Lion of Ireland,* I was fully prepared to fall in love with the characters. I was waiting to be absorbed by every word, every action, every tiny detail. And I wasn't.<br />Though this novel is not bad by any means, it is, if you've read any other Llywelyn novel, disappointing. I would not recommend starting with this one. Read *Lion of Ireland* first to see what this normally wonderful author is capable of.	2002-05-11
US	39211270	R2NAU8PWL1K3FZ	0810933969	59937131	The Great Kettles: A Tale of Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Promote imagination	What a wonderful way to start a child on the path of imagination. <br />Perhaps the best thing about *The Great Kettles* is that, though the story is fun and fanciful, it's not necessary. It's so much more rewarding to let a child look at the illustrations and create his or her own story. And not only children--I've found great inspiration in the colorful and detailed illustrations that grace every page. <br />Dean Morrissey's books should be on every child's bedside table.	2002-05-05
US	39211270	R2YT3SSDXEEJUJ	1888173572	125230802	The Haunted Bookshop	Books	4	49	53	N	N	For the bibliophile in all of us	Okay, so I admit, the cover attracted me to the book. It wouldn't be the first time that this has happened. And the title was alluring(considering that I've worked in a bookstore for years upon years and now spend my working hours in a library, is it any wonder?) And so, The Haunted Bookshop and Parnassus on Wheels in hand, I made my way to a chair by a window and found comfort in Christopher Morley's words.<br />&quot;Did you ever notice how books track you down and hunt you out?...it follows you and follows you and drives you into a corner and makes you read it...Words cannot describe the cunning of some books.&quot; <br />That was all it took, all the motivation I needed, to buy the book. The story itself kept me reading. Roger Mifflin, owner of &quot;the haunted bookshop,&quot; is a man after my own heart. Some may find him a bit stuffy, perhaps just a tad bit pretentious(though charmingly so)in nature, but he's a man that knows the importance of books. In fact, he can choose the perfect book for a customer just by looking at him. Now that's a talent I'd like to have.<br />Besides all of the book loving goin' on, the novel is peopled with charming characters, all trying to solve a mystery between reading and taking out the Mifflin's dog. The mystery is a little slow going at first, but soon after, as things fall into place, it becomes quite the page turner.<br />All in all, a lovely book that any bibliophile will treasure.	2002-05-05
US	39211270	R1AM1ATU53Z2X1	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	So glad I found it	Sometimes you read so many books that you consider to be good that you forget the feeling that overwhelms you when you read one that is truly wonderful. And then, when you find a wonderful one, you wonder what makes it so, what sets it apart from those that are just &quot;good.&quot; I wasn't more than fifty or so pages into *A Game of Thrones* when I started wondering that very thing.<br />And then I got to a certain chapter and fully realized why. In this case there are so many components. The most important one, however, is that it makes you feel. Strongly. I was reading the aforementioned chapter and it occurred to me that my stomach was tense, that I was grinding my teeth, that I hated a character so passionately that I could physically feel it. That this novel had roused such an emotion, well, suffice it to say, I hadn't felt that for quite some time with the novels I had been reading. I loved it.<br />The next component is one of equal importance. Martin is admirably adept at handling language. His prose is beautiful and evocative and always right on. This novel is one even a discriminating &quot;literary&quot; reader could pick up and find him or herself awed by.<br />So many times I found myself almost unwilling to go on with my reading. I was afraid to find out what was going to happen next. Nothing is as it should be or even how you imagine it could be. And yet it is completely unimaginable to stop. I just had to know what was going to happen next.<br />I have to say, I had been disappointed by some of the fantasy recommended on this site before, but this one makes up for them all.	2002-05-01
US	39211270	R2GDG64AFL146F	1582971420	644572832	Pocket Muse: Ideas and Inspirations for Writing	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Just for fun	Always on the lookout for writing ideas, I picked up this little book to flip through and see if anything would catch my eye. Just about everything did. <br />The person responsible for the construction of this neat little book, whether it be the author or the publisher, deserves a pat on the back. This is a fun book. Each page offers a different background, different typesets, and varied images/pictures. Along with ideas to get you started, the author also includes tips on style, and humorous stories of things that have gone wrong(and right)in writer's lives. <br />Whether or not *The Pocket Muse* actually gets you writing, it's still an enjoyable book that you can read just for fun.	2002-04-30
US	39211270	R24IC9EIU2BL93	0151005044	156579077	Ascending Peculiarity: Edward Gorey on Edward Gorey	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Kind of Quirky Inspiriation	If there's one thing I really love about this book it's the lack of continuity. There's no need to sit down and read it straight through. Read an article a day. Go to it only when you want a sentence or thought to mull over. Pick out an image when you want to write or illustrate something yourself. There's plenty of quirky inspiration to be found in these articles. <br />This is an eccentric kind of biography, perfectly suited to the nature of the man. In it there is only so much revealed, enough to make you wonder what else was there, what was waiting to happen. And for those of us that wouldn't have access to the original articles, well, this is a wonderful solution.<br />Perhaps the only thing that kept this book from getting a full five stars is that there just aren't enough of his illustrations to satisfy.	2002-04-21
US	39211270	R9R8WT4LX3SKA	0874519187	801820320	Orpheus and Company: Contemporary Poems on Greek Mythology	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Wonderful collection	*Orpheus &amp; Company* is a wonderful compendium of poetry inspired by the various gods and mortals of Greek mythology. <br />The poems found in the book are a wonderful starting point for anyone unfamliar with mythology. They give, in some cases, just enough of the story to tease, thereby prompting you to search out a copy of Hamilton's *Mythology* to learn the whole tale. And it is also a great book for those readers that have a fondness for mythology, though not necessarily poetry, simply because the form is so befitting of the topic, and the selections were, for the most part, meticulously chosen.<br />I, myself, was very pleased with the collection as a whole. And that included within its pages is Louise Gluck's *The Triumph of Achilles,* well, for that alone it won me over.	2002-04-17
US	39211270	R3HA84UATZ0S5F	1577311000	282045316	A Writer's Book of Days: A Spirited Companion and Lively Muse for the Writing Life	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A prompt now and again	I've owned and read more than a handful of books on the craft of writing and I've yet to take one seriously. The advice given is all well and good, usually well intentioned, but hardly ever applies to its audience. Really, one more book telling me to play the &quot;what if&quot; game is the last thing I need. And, in all honesty, I can't say that the advice and anecdotes recorded in *A Writer's Book of Days* is all that different.<br />~However~, this book does provide a few things that others don't. It's an enjoyable read. If you want to find out which authors wrote while in the bathtub then, by all means, you must own this book. But more than that, the prompts in this book are actually helpful.<br />Sometimes all you need is a single thought, a startling image, to have an idea that you may have otherwise never found. Reeves simplifies her promts, allowing the writer to do the work, by giving us a word or at most a phrase to use as a springboard. I have consistently found that they do get you writing. And, really, that was all I wanted this book to do for me.	2002-04-14
US	39211270	R3F8A24S7F0AIF	0304353671	540186833	Le Morte D'Arthur: Complete Unabridged, New Illustrated Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Simply Stunning	Most everyone has some knowledge of the King Arthur legend. Either they've read it, been exposed to it by Disney or Robert Goulet, or have just heard of it from someone else that knows. So, I'm not recommending this book so much for the text.<br />The reason why this edition of Le Morte D'Arthur is an absolutely necessary part of any collection is for its stunning illustrations. Anna-Marie Ferguson must have dreamed of Camelot when she was a child for there is simply no other way to explain the attention to detail, the romantic cast to all that we see. As real as Arthur and Lancelot may have seemed to us before, they become infinitely more human in the hands of Ferguson. I never tire of walking to my shelves and pulling out this book to just flip through it. To track my fingertips down the smooth sweep of colors and the beautiful images that really bring Camelot to life.	2002-04-14
US	39211270	RJU8QZ6WAOBL	055311302X	308767510	Art of Italian Cooking	Books	4	9	13	N	N	For those not politically inclined...Read it anyway	I didn't want to read this book. But sometimes, just sometimes, professors sneak a novel past you, one you're positive is just going to make for a horrendous reading experience, but then turns out to be quite a pleasant surprise. In all honesty, *The Last Hurrah* was one of the best books I was \\"forced\\" to read in college.<br />It would seem as though in order to read this novel you would have to have some kind of interest in the political world, that you would need a grand knowledge of it to even keep up. Not true. Edwin O'Connor portrays Boston politics in a very appealing and human way. You notice the characters first--and then you see what they do to maneuver the city to their liking. <br />Rich in atmosphere and driven by wonderful character interaction, *The Last Hurrah* is a novel to be appreciated and enjoyed.	2002-04-13
US	39211270	R31QDO99NUBK6	0684818922	447716228	The Singing Sands	Books	4	30	30	N	N	It may take some time to appreciate	The concept behind Tey's *The Singing Sands* immediately drew me in. A bit of poetry written on a newspaper leads the inspector to solve a crime that only he believes is indeed actually a crime. Yes, very interesting. However, once I started reading I found the pacing a little slow. Grant was far more introspective, more concerned with his own fears, than most mystery protagonists. Which was not, by any means, a bad thing. I just had to adjust my mindset a bit. Once I realized that this was not to be a typical solve it and feel good mystery, I found myself sinking in, slowly. Admittedly, it took me a couple of days after finishing the novel to appreciate it, to find it a satisfying read. But one thing has definitely come from reading *The Singing Sands*--I'm now looking forward to reading more Josephine Tey novels.	2002-04-10
US	39211270	R8SX6B2PPW7N4	0939666758	265507365	The Wild Muir: Twenty-Two of John Muir's Greatest Adventures	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Like being caught in a wind storm	There is one, though certainly not the only, thing that sets Muir apart from other naturalist writers in my mind... adjectives. You will not find minimalist prose in any of the condensed tales found in this beautifully bound book. However, you will find wonderfully descriptive passages that engage the senses and provoke imagination. The Wild Muir is a great introduction to Muir's exploits and beyond that to the creative non-fiction field in general. This book will provide a wonderful escape for adults and children alike.	2002-04-10
US	39211270	R1GF1S2W4FMR5Q	0375700129	277715295	As She Climbed Across the Table: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	See, it was all about the title	Being a big fan of titles, I was suitably impressed with this one. *As She Climbed Across the Table*--I thought, what could this possibly be? It's here, in the sci-fi/fantasy section, so how is the author going to make it apply? And so the title having attracted me, I picked it up and low and behold, the plot sounded really interesting as well. <br />I can't say that I was disappointed with the novel. That wouldn't be entirely true. But, well, the narrator was just annoying. He comes off as a really engaging, quirky type of guy, but his tenacity is just...unbelievable. I found myself getting frustrated with him. And what that boils down to, and it's true of the other characters as well, I just didn't particularly care. I felt...nothing.<br />However, the one remarkably redeeming quality of this novel comes back to the title. The moment of realization, when you see its purpose, now that is a great feeling. <br />So, overall, little emotion, but a nice and suitable ending.	2002-04-10
US	39211270	R2KT01J8482Q3W	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Metaphysical Masterpiece	A novel that questions the intricacies of the novel? A book that explores the intimacies of reading? Calvino gives us all that and more in *If on a Winter's Night a Traveler.* <br />It takes a very skillful writer to create a protagonist that can make direct contact with the reader. I've read more novels then I care to remember that attempted to pull this off and couldn't. But here, it's like, oh I don't know, we're handed a puzzle. A puzzle in which each individual piece is beautiful. There are so many dazzling images, brilliant colors, and something about the way they fit together is just radiant. But it feels like, as those pieces fall into place, the whole might be more than we can take. There is so much to process, but there is no question as to whether you have to continue. <br />Calvino manages to create a heady novel that is both intellectually stimulating and entertaining. You will relish every moment of following the threads of the broken novels within and you will long to find the protagonist in your favorite bookstore to discuss it with. This is one of those books that will make you change the way you think, that will change you in general, and you'll never be able to look at reading in quite the same way again. And then, don't stop here, at this one novel, read everything of Calvino's that you can find.	2002-04-08
US	39211270	R89FW9RX49LFC	1887424350	291005659	Repent, Harlequin! Said the Ticktockman: The Classic Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chaos can be rather lovely	And so the Ticktockman purrs...<br />And I join right in. It's wonderful to see a writer take so much joy in what he has been given to create with. Words. Language. Sound and the breath that supports it. That alone endears him to me. But Ellison doesn't stop there. He adds to the chaotic atmosphere dazzling characters. Everything in this world he has created seems so simple, but deceptively so. And then you get to what seems like a rather abstract ending, but it's so much more simple than that. Like I said, chaos. But mark my words, you will want to dance on jelly beans after you finish reading this remarkably memorable novella. And after that, you'll want to read everything else Harlan Ellison has ever written.	2002-04-08
US	39211270	R34XFKND8QKYIU	0967822106	924147487	Harm None: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Luckily this will not be the last we see of Rowan Gant	I stumbled upon this book, in all honesty I can no longer remember where, but it seemed interesting and got fantastic reviews(just as it has here.) Whatever brought me to this book, I must say, I am thankful for it.<br />Having a little more than passing knowledge of Wicca, I was most eager to see how it was handled by Mr. Sellars. Being the type of person that is always interested in learning things outside the scope of what would be considered my specialities, this novel did one very important thing for me. It made me want to find out more. Whenever a work of fiction is able to do that, well, I chalk it up to being well written, and thought-provoking to some end.<br />In Rowan Gant, Mr. Sellars has created an honest, engaging, thinks-before-he-acts-or-speaks character. The last trait was especially endearing for its rarity in contemporary literature. In short, he's the type of good guy that you root for. <br />The story is subtly intense and renders the reader incapable of putting it down. I recommend this book not only as a sort of touchstone for those interested in learning about Wicca (or for those who are already well versed in its practices,) but also to those readers just looking for a good mystery that strays ever so slightly from the norm. <br />I, too, look forward to Rowan Gant's next investigation.	2002-04-01
US	39211270	R2F62PZH7RAKQN	1878972278	547573430	The Book Of Disquiet	Books	5	26	29	N	N	The beauty of this novel	Poetry often speaks to us; we see something in it, something recognizable, and it's like we are shown a piece of ourselves that had been hidden for a lifetime before. Finding Pessoa's *Book of Disquiet* was like finding a piece of myself. In the pages of this poetic novel you will find honesty, often self-disparaging, and you will find beauty in the smallest observation. However, be forewarned, this is not a book that should be picked up with the idea of light reading in mind. In fact, you may find that you have to put it down, repeatedly, to get away from it, to think, but you will always, always come back to it. Keep it close to hand.	2002-03-31
US	39211270	R2NIRY8Y94QUBA	0380767724	265401123	The Princess and the Barbarian	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Beautiful and Memorable	What starts as a typical damsel in distress plot line quickly turns into a stunning story of love, intimacy, and the bonds that hold a kingdom together. Krahn has created a truly magical place, filled with characters that will quickly win your heart and remain in your memory for a long time to come. This novel is very special to me. It brings back a time, a place, and even the sound of the music I was listening to while reading it. Perhaps this review should have included theme, plot and all of those things that the page otherwise fails to mention, but why bother? It's the emotion, both in the novel and what it invokes in the reader, that really matters. If you can find this novel, buy it without hesitation. It will linger.	2002-03-31
