US	39236384	R2YBX97IQ6510K	1582432902	767058438	Stanley Park: A Novel	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Haute cuisine at the final frontier	This novel features Jeremy Papier, a chef struggling with major financial problems, his father, &quot;the Professor,&quot; an anthropologist writing about the schizophrenic of Vancouver's Stanley Park and showing signs of becoming one himself, and Dante Beale, a British Columbian counterpart to Howard Schultz who owns an espresso coffee chain tellingly called &quot;Inferno.&quot;  Dante, a former neighbor of Professor Papier and his son, admires Jeremy's skill tremendously and would like to open a restaurant with him. But he can't resist his own unbounded faith in his corporate resesearch, to the point of telling Jeremy what color food to cook, or his tendency to micromanage.  Several other characters, most closely involved with Jeremy, and the Professor's research on the death of two children decades before complete the story nicely.  More than the sum of its parts, like any fine meal.	2004-01-24
US	39236384	R3UVJNSTFPE1RJ	0316168718	802115246	The Ornament of the World: How Muslims, Jews and Christians Created a Culture of Tolerance in Medieval Spain	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A good partial history, a bit scattered and anecdotal	This book will definitely help you distinguish your Ummayyadd's from your Abbassids from your Fatimids.  And you may not know your Almohads from your Almoravids by the end of it, but you'll definitely be able to distinguish them from everyone else, and that it seems is the important thing.  It is shocking that Menocal gets the birthplace of El Cid wrong when it is apparently such a well known fact, as another reviewer points out, but I've noticed that Historians often make errors in dynastic minutia.  This book is really about the establishment of cultures, their relationships to each other, and the place of the individuals within them, and Menocal focuses particularly on the development of religion AND the development of language.  Castilian (Spanish) and Hebrew were both able to develop radically and to revitalize with the influence of a multicultural environment and Arabic poetic forms.  Many of the individuals that Menocal focuses on are poets as well as actors in the Andalusian political scene, and many are Jewish.  The focus on Jewish individuals makes a great deal of sense given that they were allowed a political importance in the Muslim scheme of things and later subjugated, first by the fundamentalist Muslim Berber lines, and then diasporized by Ferdinand and Isabella.  This is an idealistic History of Tolerance, but it also paints a vivid picture of the limits of and conflicts within that tolerance.  It was also interesting to be reminded that the Nasrid Kingdom of Granada, whose Alhambra is now a World Heritage site, was the Last of the Muslim states in an otherwise thorougly Christianized Spain.	2003-08-16
US	39236384	R273YDSA7TFBLX	186450174X	979770810	Lonely Planet Barcelona (Lonely Planet City Maps)	Books	4	4	25	N	N	Not a bad map	It's a little small, but it does help you get around, and it keeps excellently and won't wear and tear.  However, if you lose it during your stay in Barcelona, it won't help you.	2003-07-12
US	39236384	R2RVW79OS2VGK2	1852427000	632760716	Southern Seas (A Five Star Title)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great, satirical detective story of post Franco Barcelona	Highly recommended hard-boiled detective novel that looks at the cultural malaise of Spain in general and Barcelona in particular coming out of thirty years of Fascist dictatorship.  Every character in this book has a serious political past and agenda, and they recite their political evolution and handily give the details of which party they recently voted for and why in the same fashion that Law & Order interviewees cynically give the details of their professional pitfalls.  The hero Pepe Carvalho is so wacked out he burns books (but why is the question,) and he seems to be an overweight balding alcoholic with gourmand tendencies, but he's still a hit with the ladies.  And the story is excellently written, and at once amusing and sad.	2003-07-12
US	39236384	RI6Y0ODO2GJZM	1890208434	670557173	A Plague of Angels: A Sir Robert Carey Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Amusing and convincing Elizabethan detective series...	This series by Patricia Finney features Robert Carey, the youngest son of Lord Hundson who in turn is the bastard son of Henry VII and Mary Boleyn, Ann's sister.  Carey has landed a position as the Queen's representative at one of the border forts between England and Scotland, at a particularly crucial time, when Elizabeth's heir, James, is king of Scotland, and his succession to the English throne will unify the two countries.  Carey's main motive in  accepting the position was to get away from creditors in England.  And in the first of the series, Carey, began to establish himself as a kind of monarch in his own right in that most politically crucial of geographies.  Now less than a year and three books' worth of adventures later, Carey must return home to London at the summons of his father, who is now the Queen's Lord Chamberlain.  Carey has to deal with creditors who are stalking him, his father's girlfriend (and once his,) Mistress Bassano, her devoted swain and family servant, the rather unimpressive Will Shakespeare, and the fact that his gullible elder brother Edmund has disappeared in what turns out to be plague infested London, and Hundson's chief enemy, Thomas Heneage, probably has something to do with it.  Meanwhile a bunch of counterfeit coins are turning up, and the penalty for counterfeiting is death.  And Carey's Scottish man, Seargent Dodd is amusing everyone with his bumpkin ways and accent, while being extremely frustrated by their decadent city ways and lack of recognition for his family rank.  It's fun stuff with great characterization and just about the best period resurrection I've ever experienced.  But then that's true of all of Finney's work, and here, slick London kind of made me miss the crass and vulgar North.	2003-07-05
US	39236384	R3H457N1S4BE5D	1931299048	848976588	Sanskrit Copying Book 2	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Kinda Disappointing	This copying book does not provide a transliteration. Since one of the main objectives is to familiarize yourself with the ligatures that would have been nice.  But it does have some nifty phrases.	2003-06-27
US	39236384	R16MRSEANGZQV5	0140298517	367419940	The Basque History of the World: The Story of a Nation	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Very enjoyable introduction to lesser known subject...	The Basques certainly deserve their own history, even if this retelling is highly subjective and not objectively historical.  Kurlansky seems more in the business of giving clues to the Basque world without spelling everything out.  The importance of home or &quot;etxea&quot; in the Basque mindset is explained, as are the resurgences of Basque languages (there seems to be more than one,) and nationalism.  The devolution of some aspect of that nationalism into pure violence, and the terrorism of the ETA, is not developed.  But the Basque identities of historical figures like Saint Ignatius Loyola and the writer Miguel De Unamuno are satisfyingly explained, as are the differences between later Basque leaders like Sabino Arano, and the chief executive in exile during WWII, Aguirre.  Beyond that it's a bit of a hodge-podge, going from the development of Basque trade and industry with the Americas, the creation of the dish &quot;pil-pil,&quot; the roots of Basque theology, and the significance of Guernica both as the center of Basque identity and as the victim of the staggering attack by Franco during the Spanish Civil War.  And of course, the other reviewer is right.  Ferdinand and Isabella had several children, the most significant of which are Juana La Loca and Katherine of Aragon who was the unfortunate first wife of England's Henry VIII.  Kurlansky got that wrong, but I assumed he was oversimplifying.	2003-05-26
US	39236384	R2XCQRPVWHLOQX	0374313822	671228212	Close Your Eyes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just charming	When you need to put your little tiger to sleep this should do the trick.  Beautiful, fanciful, gentle yet fierce illustrations...	2003-05-26
US	39236384	R2XE58EMQBDNVJ	0684847558	235113075	A Backward Glance: An Autobiography	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Very simply written yet superb autobiograpy...	This autobiography which really gives a feel for the times in, which Wharton lived as well as for her own life experiences, contains some the most stunningly succinct annecdotes I've ever read.  Wharton is truly brilliant at conveying the importance of literature in her life and sharing the possibilities of the literary life with her reader.  She reaches through time to inform us of universals and redefine our value systems without being the least bit pedantic.  She is a genius.  And her autobiography is as entertaining and resonant as a great novel.	2003-03-27
US	39236384	RKHH0B9ZYNHUU	0306811804	46635028	Trieste And The Meaning Of Nowhere	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A sad and sweet book...	Morris describes Trieste as a city of melancholy, not so much that it is depressing, but that it allows one to be sad in a way that other more agressive towns might not.  One ruminates on the meaning of nowhere there and a learns that nowhere is really a little bit of everywhere.<br />Nor does it hurt to run into Sir Richard Burton's widow burning his pornographic translations from the Arabic, or James Joyce writing poems while visiting prostitutes.  Also there are many well-fed cats, dining outside the mayor's favorite restaurant, or in the desert of the surrounding area, the rocky stony Karst, licking up scraps of fish heads and spaghetti brought to them by the local residents.<br />It is no longer one of the world's greatest ports as it was under the Hapsburgs.  It is only the fifth largest port in the Mediterranean.	2003-01-18
US	39236384	RJ0XV50DR519R	0446607746	398293934	Three Hands in the Fountain (Marcus Didius Falco Mysteries)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another fun Falco mystery	This is my third one.  I've read two.  One Virgin Too Many, and A Dying Light in Corduba.  This one is before Virgin and after Corduba.  Junia Junilla Laeitana (partially named after a wine!) has been born to Falco and his 'wife,\\" the aristocratic Helena.  Anacrites, Chief Spy and Falco's sworn enemy, is just beginning to come out of convalescence after being beat up in the previous book and being nursed to health by Falco's Ma.  Claudia Rufina, a character from the last book, has been engaged to Helena's snotty brother Aelianus. Falco's best friend Petro has been fired from the police force after being unfaithful to his wife with a gangster's daughter, and Petro and Falco have teamed up to form an investigative partnership.  They find a human hand in a fountain that is being repaired by a civic workman and rapidly it comes to light that there has been a serial killer at work during the Roman Games for years.  This is not good news.  The ex-consul Frontinus employs Falco and Petro to stop this person.  As usual, Falco and Petro have problems of their own, and Rome's bureaucracy is not entirely helpful, while the actual mystery, particularly in this story is not entirely the point.  (I did have a quibble with its resolution, however.) The Local Color of Ancient Rome, and surroundings in this book, is so well conveyed through Falco's dry wit and wary yet hopeful humor that the read is just plain fun.  And this mystery particularly wrily displays the struggle with bureaucracy that has been Rome's legacy to the modern day.  One scene has Falco and Helena registering the birth of Julia Junilla Laeitana (partially named after a wine!) at the birth registry office and that is quite funny.	2002-12-31
US	39236384	R2HWN38PU1CQLQ	0300095015	961804516	Mrs. Astor's New York: Money and Power in a Gilded Age (Hardcover)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Fascinating but not quite what I expected...	This book really doesn't seem to be about Mrs. Astor or even the daily world she lived in, so much as it is about the History of New York. In the first several chapters the author chronicles lucidly, but perfunctorily, the attachments, financial and domestic, and above all architectural and urban of several wealthy New York families. From the earliest times post the Revolution, New York society had exceedingly difficult standards with some families struggling to get into society or stay in, and others struggling to keep some of those families, or individuals out. Quickly a dichotomy reveals itself between those who have money, and those who have a family line stretching back to Adam, with the power of money vs. lineage constantly alternating, though lineage always seems to have a slightly upper hand, or think it does. That mentality as expressed by the evolution of neighborhoods emerges for the first two thirds of the book. Homberger does a fascinating study of the ascendancies and declines of such old neighborhoods such as St Johns Park and Bond street and how families strategically placed themselves in these neighborhoods, and strategically sold out, devoting themselves to building new mansions elsewhere, always further North, taking the money, and lineage, with them. In quick time these mansions were also razed to make room for the new. There are in fact many photographs of mansions which became other mansions or Grand Hotels. Into this arena of inadvertant social mobility emerges the social conservatism of Ward MacAllister, commentator, arbiter and arranger of the social scene, and his social Boss, Mrs. Astor herself. MacAllister seems to have had a ruthless and iron grip but to have stumbled when he wrote a a Truman Capote-like expose of his social experiences called \\"Society as I have found it,\\" dubbed by his jeerers \\"Society as it has found me out.\\" Homberger doesn't treat MacAllister's rise and fall in narrative form, but constantly refers back to it, in fact he introduces us to MacAllister with his funeral. He also introduces us to Mrs. Astor, at the end of the book, with the end of her days, as a woman living in a mimicry haze of the past. Perhaps for this reason, the portrait of Mrs. Astor never quite takes off. One learns a few things about her life, but there don't seem to be any notable turning points, and there are only rare depictions of her actually interfering in society which is extremely strange. We never quite see her promoting, demoting or blocking entrance into the sacred class as much as we expect her to. About the last thing we see her do is make an exception for a friend who married a Jewish banker, because she likes her, but even that is anti-climactic. While, the book itself is fascinating in its depiction of New York, and the history of its founding elite, the main leader, Mrs. Astor, of the society emerges as nearly a phantom, almost an absence more than a presence. (If you're going to read about the cream, you may as well read about the dregs in Luc Sante's Low Life.)	2002-12-24
US	39236384	R2MAEZ4YVSURQ3	0140283617	520659636	The Hundred Years War: The English in France 1337-1453	Books	5	60	62	N	N	Excellent reading--but difficult	This is an excellent, if rapid, retelling of the hundred years war, which was not one war, but a series of bloody conflicts, started by the English refusal to recognize the French salic law which denied inheritance through the female line. Edward III' s mother Queen Isabella was the daughter of king Phillip the Fair, and as such many, including Edward, felt that he,NOT King Phillip's nephew ought to inherit the throne.Meanwhile in France, dependence of salic law had only recently been revived and was, of course being used for political reasons, including specifically that of keeping an Englishman off the throne. Alas, nothing is even so simple and there were many pretenders and schisms, including the Great schism between the Popes of Avignon and Rome as well as between French factions during this period. Seward covers the motivations for conflict, on different class levels, as well as the effects of various conflicts and gives us some great characters. There are several genealogical charts which explain the dynastic imperatives, as well as a real attention to military detail, the descriptions of different kinds of weaponry, particularly English bow and arrow versus French crossbow are impressive. And several battles are accompanied by military diagrams, so that those who are military minded can have a real grasp of the actions at Crecy and Agincourt, for example, as well as of the military intelligence of Edward III, John of Gaunt, Henry V and Joan of Arc. Seward relies on many primary sources, but in particular on Froissart and the Bourgeois of Paris (whom I had not heard of.) He quotes Shakespeare and ancient songs appropriately at the beginning of each chapter, and provides an excellent appendix of maps showing the vicissitudes of French territories and English occupations, as well as an appendix explaining the meaning of the currencies in the economics of the time. This is a straightforward, exceedingly comprehensive, delineation of one of the most confusing occasions in Western European history. One is still left confused at the end about how and why the dynastic, commercial, political and military factors interacted as they did however. And it becomes very difficult to sort one French King and political pretender from another. I never did quite figure out what Phillip of Burgundy was up to.  <br />One has the sense that Seward might have better served his purpose by writing a book a hundred pages longer with attentions to the less heady but equally important details of character, personality and relationship. Maurice Druon's fictional series \\"The Cursed Kings\\" (1-6) makes a good introduction to the Political events that led up to the start of the Hundred Years war.	2002-12-24
US	39236384	R1NMGP3KHD9W75	0451458680	874401304	Belarus	Books	1	4	18	N	N	Yuck	I really didn't like this.  Found much of it to be gibberish and incomprehensible.  It seemed to be about a man who was in line to be Tsar of Russia in the 200th century rebuilding his country on a new planet that happened to be booby trapped by a race of really nasty insects who eat each others livers.  It's a future in which most of the humans have cybernetics and live hundreds of years and some machines have developed their own independent identities.  This last might have been an interesting idea, but it wasn't really developed.  And neither were the reasons for rebuilding Russia ever made clear.  Some characters somewhere seemed to think it was being rebuilt to become an amusement park or something.  There were characters who were engineers of worlds who reminded me of nothing so much as Slartibartfast who designed fjords on the coast of Africa in \\"The Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy\\".  And there was nothing Russian about the book other than a few names and the fact that the characters keep saying the cities that would be built would be like Russian cities.  There's a character named \\"Baba Yaga\\" who is supposed to be all mysterious and brilliant, but the concept just falls flat.  I didn't get any sense of the author's working with folklore at all.  <br />Finally, I'm sorry to be so negative about this, but if you have a romantic bone in your body and don't enjoy insects in your sci-fi this one is a definite miss.  Aside from the gross-out factor, which some people may like, I don't see much else to recommend it.	2002-12-11
US	39236384	RRZPPNW4FOB9P	0689716966	618837567	The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beautiful art.	Paul Goble transcends perfection.  Any artist, or anyone who loves art, will want to look at this book again and again...<br />Simon & Schuster recommends the book for ages 5 to 8, but any child approaching or in his or her early teens would be enchanted by the simplicity of the artwork and the way it so powerfully conveys the story the words tell.  Even adults will enjoy this poetic picture book.	2002-12-11
US	39236384	R252S3NA14V1V9	0060199377	135700522	Made in Marseille: Food and Flavors from France's Mediterranean Seaport	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Left me wanting more...	It was interesting to learn that Marseille is a great Pizza town and has Pizza trucks complete with North African Pizza styles, but that didn't make me feel like I was there. The recipes all seem very complex and seem to come from the kitchens of fancy restaurants. I did manage to create a halfway decent vegetarian Spinach bouillabaise as inspired by one of the recipes. <br />Incidentally, I was moving when I wrote this review, and so I goofed. Of course there is an index! I don't know why I thought there wasn't one. So I apologize to the author and review readers for that considerable error.	2002-11-23
US	39236384	R29FQE1K7J5ZMD	1890208272	49781764	Famine of Horses, A (Sir Robert Carey Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Enjoyable well written Renaissance mystery	The setting is the Northern border of England.  Our hero is Robert Carey, the son of Lord Hundson, Queen Elizabeth's Lord Chamberlain and her first cousin through their mothers', Mary and Ann Boleyn.  Hundson is also, however, in this novel, historically he may not have been, the bastard son of Henry VIII.  So Robert Carey, new deputy warden, more like sheriff really, of one the two main border keeps, is the grandson of the late great Tudor king himself.  Unfortunately, Carey's noble bloodlines and his courtier experience is not going to matter a jot to the rough hewn Scottish and English clans around the border.  Their main interests are feuding, cattle and horse \\"reiving,\\" an old word for rustling, and occasionally killing each other.  Carey's brother-in-law, Lord Scrope has just become Warden of the March after the death of his father.  Unfortunately for everyone Lord Scrope is not exactly brilliant, even if his wife, Carey's sister, Lady Philadelphia, is plenty smart.  Meanwhile, the dead body of Sweetmilk Graham, favorite son of one of the leading clan chiefs, Jock of Peartree, has just been discovered on an old battlefield.  Jock thinks he knows who did it and wants to pursue a vendetta against Carey's new local man, Seargent Dodd, while Carey isn't so sure, and would like to introduce the concept of Justice to the lawless frontier.  Not that anyone on the lawless frontier cares. Carey is willing to go to great lengths and place himself in the middle of a mysterious anti-royal plot to prove his mettle, solve the mystery of Sweetmilk's murder, bring the murderer to Justice, and incidentally find out why all the horses south of the border have suddenly disappeared. But his love, Lady Elizabeth Widdrington, is the real reason he's turned up in these parts. And she's very concerned about his predilection for adventure, a little bit less concerned about her husband. It's an entertaining story, with fun yet believable characters, and even the hero makes human sometimes stupid and serious mistakes.  The dialect reads beautifully, though I was occasionally confused as to where exactly the different \\"Marches\\" or border forts were.	2002-11-18
US	39236384	RQL77E3IUSF7Q	0094579008	151895884	Prince of the Renaissance: Life of Francois I	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very good	Biographies of this great French king are few and far between.  To the Anglo-Saxon mind he's overshadowed in the Renaissance by his contemporary in England, Henry VIII, and among French Kings he doesn't cut quite the figure of Louis XIV.  But historically, Francis I, was as important as either of them.  As a contemporary friend and rival of Henry VIII, Charles V of Austria (the Holy Roman Empire) and Spain, and Suleiman the Magnificent of Turkey, as well as the Medici Pope Leo X, he brought the Renaissance to continental Europe, and created the circumstances which allowed it to become something wholly continental and not simply Byzantine.  It is he who is responsible for some of the world's most magnificent architecture, the Chateaux of the Loire river, and he was patron to some of the greatest artists of the era, including Leonardo Da Vinci, and Benvenuto Cellini, as well as to the great poet Clement Marot.  Seward gives interesting insight into Francis 1's relationship with the women in his life, his controlling mother, Louise of Savoy, his devoted sister Marguerite of Navarre, his wives, Queen Claude of France, and Eleanor of Austria (sister of Charles V of Spain), his mistress Madame D'Estampes, and his daughter-in-law, Catherine De Medici.  Seward also shows in specific detail Francis' military strengths and weaknesses, his famous victory at Marignano, and more decisive failure at Pavia which finally lost the French control over the duchy of Milan.  He also provides a good look at how Francis contributed to and was affected by the controversies surrounding the Reformation in a time when nothing, religiously above all, was certain.  Surprisingly, Calvin even dedicated some works to Francis.  What emerges is the portrait of a quintessentially French king who not only laid the groundwork for the absolute political power of the monarchy in France, but for many ideals of culture, literature, education and diplomacy which survive in Occidental Civilization to this day.y.	2002-11-18
US	39236384	RHBIPD1R1VNXF	0345423038	703861696	The Wild Road	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Rich cat fantasy--take a walk on the wild road	A very enjoyable, pleasurable, yet philosophical read that you will want to put down from time to time to take it all in.  A great amount of description nudges, catlike, the narrative along,with spectacular lyrical writing and many active verbs.  It surprised me to see one of my co-reviewers describe the style as a passive/preponderance of wases.  Sentences like &quot;A shaggy-coated pony stood, one leg bent, in a muddy corner, looking boredly over a gray wooden gate.&quot; (p 254) or &quot;Clouds roared past the moon.&quot; (p 301) hauntingly insinuate themselves as turning points in the story, as if the wild roads themselves embody a heretofore undiscovered sense of cat story-stelling.  The hero beings, mostly furry feline, one just furry, one a bird, each have a distinct personality and a complicated and enlightened (enlightening!) sense of self.  Humans, rarely present, don't come off so well.  Tag, the naive lead hero, is a fun, optimistic, energetic and playful APPRENTICE of the mysterious master cat guardian of the wild roads, Majicou.  My one reservation would be that having finished the book and enjoyed it tremendously (in spite of some of the graphic gore which was necessary to the story) it will be a long while before I attempt the sequel or anything of the same subgenre like Tailchaser's song or Watership Down.  I especially want to read Golden Cat and Watership Down, but this is so saturated with senses of 'furry beast, 'spiritual enlightenment and honesty,' and 'the grim tortures of reality,' that I will need to take quite a break from this sort of thing. And this is my first one.  And naturally if this is derivative, I wouldn't know it because I haven't read those others, but I certainly doubt it.  It's a very rich, satisfying and sweet read, but I'm full.	2002-11-09
US	39236384	R2AU6YKZHDFRE7	0446606804	396156869	A Dying Light in Corduba (Marcus Didius Falco Mysteries)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A good one in the Marcus Didius Falco series...	I don't always go for mysteries set in ancient Roman times, but Didius is such a likeable character with a great sense of social irreverence and a healthy disrespect for the foibles of human nature.  He's an informer or what we would call a private eye.  The series has a long term arc of Didius' personal relationships particularly to his wife Helena Justina, his aristocratic in-laws, his own confusing family and many friends and enemies.  In One Virgin Too Many, the first in the series that I read, Didius and Helena had a child and we learned that his brother-in-law, Aelianus had a romantic failure with a Spanish heiress. The thought of this detective in Andalucia (where Corduba is located) and more info on the background of the characters in One Virgin Too Many helped ensnare me.  The mystery starts out with Didius attending the banquet for the society of Baetican (i.e. Spanish) Olive Oil Producers.  After the banquet, which is a snarling vicious affair, Didius learns that his old enemy, the Chief Spy Anacrites who was also there, has been attacked and nearly bludgeoned to death, and another man, an informer Didius had only met that night, but rather liked, has been killed.  Didius is hired by the imperial agent Laeta to find out what the heck is going on.  Unfortunately all the olive oil producers have fled back to Southern Spain.  Meanwhile poor Didius' girlfriend is about to give birth to their first child.  Didius knows he must refuse the assignment.  But Helena knows he must take it.  Fortunately her father, the senator Camillus Verus happens to have some olive oil fields in Southern Spain. The couple visit the area under the pretext of checking out the family lands.  But really they're there to investigate a murder and an attempted murder that occured in the imperial city itself.  The plotting is complex yet followable, and Davis does an excellent job of creating, presenting and illustrating characters and relationships from differing social backgrounds and of various abilities.  It's a very entertaining series, and this one particularly so because the Spanish portion of the Roman empire is so well drawn.	2002-10-24
US	39236384	RS8OFY90KZCHL	096278155X	469400161	Calculus for Cats	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Excellent Math Review	Calculus isn't my subject. I found its study frustrating, and the authors of Calculus for cats obviously sympathize with my plight. I had read their Algebra Unplugged which helped to refresh my memory even about the more than basic principles of that study. Approaching calculus, I had a lot less confidence. The nice thing about this book is that you don't need confidence in your math abilities to enjoy it. The authors postulate that calculus was invented by cats who have a vested interest in keeping the real meaning of the discipline, not to mention its practice, out of human hands. Math books are written to obscure understanding not enhance it, and the cats love it. Cats the authors explain are constantly scurrying after mice, and they use the calculations of calculus to catch them. Each function, or as your math book would say, each f(x) (or y), is really a mouse that the cat is scurrying to catch. You can too. There are many amusing images, notably a cat at the center of a circle holding a long rope with another cat holding the other end skating around it. The authors also get down to much nitty gritty about notation and explain why different subjects like physics or economics or even different branches of pure mathematics use different notations to mean the same thing. It's all stuff that's very useful for a student to know ahead of time. (It helps to know that you will study second derivatives after you study first derivatives for example. That is it helps to have a comprehensible outline before you start the class.) It doesn't substitute for the calculus class itself, but I got a much better sense of what calculus' aims really are and how it works. Now if only I could figure out how to tackle those nasty little exponents.	2002-10-24
US	39236384	R1TVO31TYZ5Y5P	0345384784	529925701	King Javan's Year (Heirs of Saint Chamber)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Like this Deryni book	This is one of the Deryni books that is still set in the Cambrian age, that is during the life of, or shortly after the death of St Camber MacRorie.  The Haldane heirs have returned, thanks to Camber and his family, and taken over from the declining and nasty Festil Kings.  King Cinhil, the former monk, was succeed by the eldest of his twin sons, the sickly and weak-willed boy King Alroy, now King Alroy's brother, young Javan takes the throne and must fight the forces that threaten Deryni and justice alike.  Javan is remarkably intelligent and knows what the fight is about, but he suffers from a club foot which makes ignoramuses and plotters alike whisper that he is cursed and unfit for the throne.  Add to that the instigations of a nasty Archbishop (this is a pro-pagan/pro-celtic series) charged with \\"protecting the King\\" and you'll see that Javan and his MacRorie allies have their work cut out for them.	2002-10-06
US	39236384	R10GGGBXCDPGKS	0553293370	834333861	Foundation and Empire	Books	5	145	164	N	N	The Foundation trilogy is essential	The trilogy is essential, but since Asimov also capitalized on his own genius by writing what seems to be hundreds of lesser Foundation stories, it can all get very confusing and a bit draining.  This is the second book in the original trilogy, so it is from a science fiction point of view essential reading.  The trilogy itself comes up with two highly memorable characters, Hari Seldon, the psycho-historian, who uses Mathematics to predict the future and establish a \\"Foundation\\" that will limit the dark ages after the fall of the \\"Empire\\" to a single millenium (as opposed to ten.)  He reappears as a hologram at certain points in the story with more or less accurate takes on what is happening in \\"History\\" at that point.<br />The other very memorable character is the Mule.  He represents the variable that makes predicting \\"History\\" mathematically a tricky business at least, not to mention impossible.  He is a nasty totalitarian character who strangely in Asimov's hands manages to elicit some sympathy.  Asimov is playing with the idea of predicting human behavior scientifically (or controlling it scientifically,) but this character is also a humanistic meditation on how masses of people get overwhelmed by evil social forces like fascism and soviet communism.  You can see that Asimov lived through the era of Hitler, Mussolini, Franco and Stalin and that these cult of personality tyrants and the submission of masses of people to their destructive and sadistic wills profoundly affected his view of human nature.  Foundation and Empire seems to be an attempt to come to terms with that experience, and so has something to say about the specifics of twentieth century history, as well as about historical philosophy.	2002-10-06
US	39236384	R1BX8M7N8SV2X3	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This whole series is really superb.	I would recommend it for any child or any adult.  Taran, assistant Pig-Keeper, is a smart sympathetic character.  The love between him and Princess Eilonwy is humor-filled and sincere. Taran's mentor, the wizard Dalben positively inspires.  And Taran's charge the prophetic pig Hen Wen is just outrageously loveable.  Other characters to look out for:  the dashing High King Math, the nasty beautiful and complex Queen Achren, and the prince turned bard, and maybe he's not that good a bard, Fflewddur Fflam.  This is an affectionate and magical series.	2002-10-06
US	39236384	R1FF9SOR8EMANT	0446677698	801588825	One Virgin Too Many	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Ancient History class was never like this.  Fun!	I had this in my bookshelf a long time.  When I finally got around to reading it I was glad I did.  Davis explains the mores and concerns of Ancient Romans very naturally. (Great maps, plust a nice genealogy and character list at the beginning of the book.) Falco is as cynical about his society's sacred cows (or in his case sacred geese) as we would be.  Davis gets into a lot of detail about the Vestal Virgins and the cult of Jupiter in a way that never drags you down.  As you might expect the family of the priests of Jupiter is a bit wacky, especially since the youngest member, Gaia Laelia, has gone to see Falco saying one of them is trying to kill her.  Meanwhile Falco has his own family problems to deal with, what with a sister with four kids whose husband has just been eaten by lions, a girlfriend/wife whose father is a Senator, a brother-in-law who just discovered a dead body at \\"The Sacred Grove,\\" divorced parents, a crazy great-uncle and his 'Ma' nursing his worst enemy, the Chief Spy Anacrites, back to health, and, unfortunately for Falco, doting on him.  Meanwhile Falco's best friend, Petronius, a cop, has just been left by his wife for a gardener after an 'indiscretion' he committed with a gangster's daughter.  Have I mentioned that Falco also has a baby daughter, Julia, who enjoys contemplating eating her own foot and gets into everything, which can be a lot when you've got a bunch of sacred poultry and a rambunctious and attractive dog named Nux around.  Not to mention the Vestals. (Both Gaia Laelia, and Falco's eight year old niece, Cloelia are trying to become one.  And wouldn't you know it?  The lottery's fixed.)  Some of the most entertaining moments in this story have nothing to do with the mysteries themselves, they're more about the domestic chaos that Falco and his family are constantly negotiating.  And that interacts nicely with the dysfunction of the sacred family he's investigating and the topsy turvy world of the Imperial family headed by Falco's sometime boss, the Emperor Vespasian himself.  Or as one slave says to Falco \\"you've got a lot of nerve!\\"  And Falco grins \\"That's what HE says.\\"  You can't help but like this character, and you can't help but enjoy this historical detective story even as you learn a bit about Imperial Rome.  Abrupt ending, but the whole story was leading up to it.  This is an entertaining historical mystery with heart.	2002-10-06
US	39236384	RO2K7PE1OHMFP	8489954135	425277872	The Story of Spain	Books	4	89	97	N	N	Exciting and superior survey History of Spain	This engagingly written survey History of Spain hits the spot. Williams has a lot of material and a heck of a lot of conflict to cover, and he does it well. He starts in pre-history and is about as detailed as you can get for a survey. I had never heard of the Tartessos (the earliest Iberians) and the Guanches (a tribe that dominated the Balearic Islands in ancient times) before. Williams covers the Roman empire and the influence of the Punic Wars. Barcelona was named after the royal family that included Hannibal, for example. He also explains the birth of Christianity, adding that Pontius Pilate was born in what is now Tarragona, and moves on to the fall of the Western Empire, the triumph of the Visigoths, complete with gorey detail and the arrival of the Moors. <br />At first the History of Spain is the tale in great part of the Iberian peninsula. Before the marriage of Ferdinand and Isabella, the central kingdom of Castille might have united with Portugal rather than Aragon. The chapter on the Renaissance is probably the best written, illustrating vividly how Spain brought together such diverse characters as Martin Luther, Suleiman the Magnificent, the Tudors of England and Montezuma of Mexico in one Century. Williams also discusses the evolution of Art and Literature throughout the book, never omitting to show that Titian, El Greco, Cervantes, Velasquez, Goya, Dali, Picasso, Miro, Machado and the like are responsible for diffusing and creating the glory that is Spanish culture, and sometimes too that which is not so Glorious. Williams doesn't neglect the Inquisition, but explains its birth, transmutations and really odd dying out. He also does well in explaining the lackluster years of the 19th century, the birth of modern Spain, with revolutions, 'pronunciamentos' and finally civil war, and the emergence of Franco. He explains regional unrest and is particularly good at showing how Catalonia and the Basque regions developed differently than other regions. He keeps the personality of monarchs and political leaders in sight, so much so, that if I were a Bourbon I might be insulted.<br />In fact, this well-written and informative survey really only has one flaw, that is, more or less understandable given the subject. It seems slightly biased, a little too pro-Spanish. Although Williams doesn't shrink from showing the flaws of leaders, he does however spend a great deal on what is called apparently \\"The Black Legend,\\" the literary view of Spaniards as villains. While this is certainly desirable, it seems perhaps he goes too far. He says the legend began with a hyperbolic monk in the Americas who exaggerated the abuse and murder of Native Americans by the conquistadors. While he handily refutes the claims of this one man, there are still some things which seem questionable. As early in the chapters on the Moors for example, one wonders if the cruelty and debauchery he attributes to their most perverse monarchs doesn't find similar outlets in the worst of the Christian monarchs. He flatly states that many of the agricultural innovations of the Moors were really Roman innovations carried over by them. He rather underplays the cruelty of the Inquisition by saying it wasn't particularly bad or 'unjust' for the time, and that there were more Religious murders in England than during the Inquisition. This seems at least very arguable. He calls Phillip II's enemy, the Dutch leader, William of Orange, 'an essentially corrupt figure,' but doesn't mention how so or if there would be those who disagree with this assessment. In one refutation of 'the Black Legend' he gives the intermarriage between Spanish and native peoples in the New World as proof that the view is unjust. Obviously a smear is going to be unjust, but simply allowing intermarriage between colonizing and colonized doesn't prove that there are no abuses going on. It is not that he doesn't have a point (one he's not alone in making) but it's an oversimplified one. He doesn'tmention incredible caste systems that exist in Latin America, or that the 'Indian Leaders' of those countries could only come to power after great civil unrest and oppositions by the 'Spaniards.' And he has one really shocking line about Native Americans in Northern countries eking out their pathetic existence on reservations. While the reader will see his point, the very phraseology seems disrespectful of the Native Americans. But that of course is not really a judgement about Spain itself.<br />So, in spite of the fact that you may want to take some of Williams assessments or even his adoration of Spain with a grain of salt, this is still an excellent survey. There is much to learn and be introduced to, and Williams tackles the job with gusto. Each chapter ends with a list of sites germaine to the period, and the maps, of the Iberian portion of Spain only, are quite explanatory. This book is a singularly satisfying reading experience that gives a first grade impression of a powerful culture. This would make an excellent companion to The Lonely Planet Spain which is a great guidebook.	2002-09-29
US	39236384	R1B22AV557MLOF	0312180942	122347216	Firedrake's Eye	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Great Elizabethan thriller, excellent prose style...	This book has very well conceived gritty characters.  The three main ones are David Becket, a toughened gentleman and swordmaster who fell on hard times fighting in the Netherlands; Simon Ames, a Jewish Portuguese agent of spymaster Sir Francis Walsingham, and 'Tom O'Bedlam' an old law school buddy of Becket's who has given way to madness, who sees angels and devils everywhere, and has an alternate personality called \\"The Clever One.\\"  The story has action and intrigue which is made all the more compelling since it is narrated, at least mostly, by \\"The Clever One,\\" who because of Tom's discourse with angels can see events as they happen to others.  The Elizabethan color permeates the text in an attractively idiosyncratic way.  Walsingham makes for the most lively Historical character.  In the beginning of the book he is suffering from kidney stones, and Ames' uncle, Dr. Hector Nunez, attends him.  Finney takes the time to delve into Walsingham's psyche pondering the effect that being present at St. Bartholomew's massacre when he was Ambassador to Paris may have had on him. This only adds to our understanding of both his role and the intrigue which is the main portion of the story.  Other historical characters presented, include Walsingham's son-in-law Sir Phillip Sidney who is working on a procession float for the Queen in the shape of \\"The Dragon of Discord.\\"  And another not so well known historical character, Laurence Pickering, 'the King of Thieves', makes an important contribution to the plot.  There are still more interesting characterizations and relationships developed, many quite sad, but I don't want to give too much away.  The writing style, above all, impresses.  It is really effective and poetic.  I felt as though every word was being read to me and didn't want to miss a single one.	2002-09-26
US	39236384	R2453XESUO4574	0345363140	926369053	The Harrowing of Gwynedd (The Heirs of Saint Camber, Vol. 1)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	One of the better of the Deryni series	I have mixed feelings about the Deryni series.  At it's best it is very authentic, mixing a very detailed pseudo-pagan medievalism with a well thought out magical system.  It fails sometimes though in the characterizations and motivations and gets rather gimmicky and embarrassingly self-imitative at times.  But this book is not one of those.  The books featuring St Camber and his children and the beginning of the Haldane line are generally quite fun and illustrate medieval religious issues in a fantasy format.  I haven't come across too many books that deal with the issue of Sainthood in an almost physical way, which is odd because there are so many medieval based fantasy characters out there. Or if I have come across fantasy books featuring the issue of Sainthood they must have been so bad I can't remember any of them.  This one is good.  All the more so since it studies a character who was both admirable and interesting.  And as I remember it, it's been awhile, the plot has some surprising quirks. You might want to read the three previous books that feature Camber himself, or you might want to let this story introduce you to the legend.	2002-09-26
US	39236384	RX0S5GCC8V3X1	0226088006	83050058	The Lisle Letters: An Abridgement	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Superb Primary Source of info on Tudor society	This isn't for everyone.  Arthur Plantagenet, Baron Lisle, Henry VIII's maternal uncle and the illegitimate son of Edward IV, became governor of Calais, the hotly contested final British stronghold on French soil, in his old age.  It was a time of social unrest and the perilous birth of Protestantism.  He was accused of treason, and his letters were subpoenaed.  Thus, they survive to this day.  Muriel St. Clare Byrne edited them into six volumes that tell a narrative tale and paint a genuine portrait of a highly placed Tudor family stuck in turbulent times.  Fortunately, there is this one-book abridgement for those of us who don't quite have the stamina to read the whole six volumes.  <br />This can be a difficult read, as you would expect.  Some of the legal and real estate squabbles are obscure.  On the other hand they involve people like John Dudley, father of Robin, who also turns out to be Plantagenet-Lisle's stepson, and Edward Seymour, brother of Queen Jane.  (Both these men, incidentally, become Lord Protector during Edward VI's reign.)  And it's fascinating to read genuine letters written by the administrative power, Thomas Cromwell, who is probably the best writer of the lot, though clearly very calculating and political.  We also watch as two of Arthur's stepdaughters, through his second marriage to Honor Basset, are forced to vie for positions as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Anne Boleyn, his stepson James Bassett vies to get into the college of Navarre so that he'll be hobnobbing with Princes, future Kings and Cardinals, and a perfectly ordinary courtship between his sister Mary and the son of a French business partner goes sour because of the Reformation.  Meanwhile the daily routine of ordinary life shows through with everyone throwing gloves and lace and coats and animals, some as pets, some to eat, at each other, and describing the various states of lands--that they're fighting over, live on, or are absent from. Different readers will get different things out of the wealth of material here.  Though everyone will learn a little bit more about why Cardinal Reginald Pole was so important to the machinations of Tudor times.  There's even a nice picture of him.	2002-09-19
US	39236384	R1BE2NRODKXGEY	158017387X	426063432	The Kitten Owner's Manual: Solutions to all your Kitten Quandaries in an easy-to-follow question and answer format	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Good, but a bit over the top...	There is some very valuable advice on how to deal with your kitten.  I immediately stopped playing the foot under the covers game with my kitten in order to discourage her from attacking my toes.  There are sensible suggestions on how to say \\"no\\" to your kitten.  And I'm anticipating a move in the next few months, and I think Moore's suggestion to rub a wet towel on your kitten and then rub the towel on the walls of the new house, so that she'll recognize her own scent, will work.  On the other hand Moore thinks you ought to keep a first aid kit for one cat that would easily fill the needs of a family of five, she suggests cutting the handles off of paper bags so that kitty won't get herself strangled in them, she suggests making your own scratching post, and gives advice on how to make several toys that pretty much amount to ones you can buy or glorified versions of regular items (socks, a belt from an old robe) that are sure to bring out kitty playfulness without the elaborate Martha Stewart like construction.  I was also confused by some of the eating strictures.  One table says kittens can't eat dry food until 12 weeks, but the text has kittens eating dry food much earlier.  Moore seems to make light of lactose intolerance, and among her kitty treats includes scrambled eggs with margarine and cottage cheese!!! And her kitty chowder seems more like a human treat to me.  Counterpointing the interesting suggestion to give your kitten a small piece of raw tuna as an alternative or addition to brushing are chapters on command training, new age therapies and kitty massage.  This is fine and cuddly, though I doubt I'll teach my kitten to do much more than sit, if that, and I'm not taking her for acupuncture.  This primer is written not so much by a cat lover as a cat fanatic.  (Though I admit that if you're going to be a fanatic, it may as well be of cats.)  Still I prefer the more practical down to earth advice of Cats for Dummies, than some of the outlandish, occasionally preposterous, cat adulation techniques of the Kitten Owner's manual.  Then again, I am going to try the kitty massage.	2002-09-06
US	39236384	R1CYLH1LHQ64XW	0140244883	6028222	Restoration: A Novel of Seventeenth-Century England (Tie-In Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great literary work	It's been a while since I read this, and I was absolutely wild about it when it first came out.  Merivel is an eighteenth century party animal, indulging in the most fun of the seven deadly sins like gluttony and lust.  He's too good natured to indulge in the nastier ones, and he's usually drunk.  He's attending medical school, and he has a gift for healing; he's not in the least bit squeamish.  But he doesn't recognize the most valuable part of himself, because he's so caught up in the glitter of materialism and the resplendency of his idol, the larger than life Charles II.  The king decides to make use of his merry but obsequious devotee and give one of his many mistresses a husband.  But Merivel breaks the cardinal rule and falls in love with his charge.  The king is furious, but he doesn't react as Merivel would expect.  This is a joyful novel that beautifully illustrates the splendor and tawdriness of its time and setting while creating a timeless parable about self-worth and coming to spiritual and moral enlightenment.  Ultimately the main character, his wife and the king discover and rediscover what is truly valuable.  More to the point Rose Tremain has a wonderfully delicate, tactful and strong prose style that is a pleasure to read.  This book comes highly recommended, though Tremain truly outdoes herself in Restoration's literary sequel, Music and Silence, which is set in the same period at the court of Charles II' cousin, the king of Denmark.  That book is even better than this one.	2002-09-06
US	39236384	R23NLQUKWBA53A	0865473927	205596480	The Gastronomical Me	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Gorgeous Personal Story	Fisher recounts her life through her intimate association with food, growing up, travelling alone to meet her formidable uncle (knowing when to order consom,) eating blue point oysters at a sorority banquet, falling in love with her first husband, living with him in 1930s Dijon at a boarding house where the landlady made ananas au kirsch, divorcing him, nursing another sick husband, being wooed while still married, travelling on cruise liners, watching the rise of the Nazis in Europe, and finally travelling to Mexico in her widowhood. Fisher reveals food as a civilizing force, revelling in its sensual pleasure while remaining starkly aware of a world going wrong. She writes real characters; it's journalism in a short story style, using that technique of fiction. With remarkably serene prose, delicate and sensuous, Fisher shows herself to be a singular woman who understands all too well the foibles of humanity and gracefully counteracts them with an almost pious devotion to the riches and possibilities of elegant cuisine.	2002-09-01
US	39236384	R3UDXD4Y90BOZ7	0688153054	145025792	A Mediterranean Feast: The Story of the Birth of the Celebrated Cuisines of the Mediterranean from the Merchants of Venice to the Barbary Corsairs, with More than 500 Recipes	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Magnificent Encyclopedic Gastronomy	The Mediterranean is its own country and most positively well known for its cuisine.  But it wasn't always like that.  At one time peasants would be routinely found dead, face down, their teeth stuck in the earth.  Wright brilliantly traces the evolution of the Mediterranean gastronomic sensibility from the times of famine and shows how trade, politics, religion and technology influenced the creation of the cuisine so many of us revere and enjoy.  He shows how the Mediterranean psyche finds food a deeply sensual experience, and how appreciation of History and Culture is to be savored in every bite of a dish.  He explains also why it's never proper to look down your nose at meat dishes when travelling in these countries.  Recipes, most modern, some old, grace the book generously with blurbs on the ingredients and their interactions.  Many are just delicious.  I tried my versions of the leek stew, the cabbage rolls, and the salted cabbage with mint dressing and simply adored them.  I can't wait for what the next three quarters of the book have in store for me, over time.  This isn't a volume to just check out of the library.  This is one to have on hand for whenever the mood or the necessity strikes you.	2002-09-01
US	39236384	R26SRCVBAD7MDW	0312420145	453697093	The Twenty-Seventh City: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	The subtle St Louis of the Mind?	Franzen's first novel, written before he was famous for tangling with Oprah.  Apparently he got a lot of flack for being critical of St Louis and capitalism.  Meanwhile the publishers were marketing it as a cold war thriller.  The plot resembles a cold war thriller, and it seems the cold war is what Franzen is really criticizing.  About three quarters of the characters of the story seem to have an internal plot going where they are the heroes of such fiction, though Franzen is deft in that he never actually says this.  This in fact creates the cold war in which they live.  The communist infiltrators aren't the Russians or Chinese, but the rarely thought of Indians.  (The female antagonist is a distant relative of Indira Ghandi.)  And the heat and humidity that join the St Louis and Indian psyches serve as a fascinating contrast to the chills of the thriller scenario the characters, are trying to fill out, though the hero of the novel, Martin Probst, engineer of the St Louis arch, is remarkably innocent.  Meanwhile, St Louis itself comes to represent that rarety of Americana, a place whose History, that which Americans are criticized for never having on their own soil, has come and gone.  The glory of the moment that was Westward Expansion has become urban decay and neglect, racial conflict, and civil corruption.  Franzen tells the story of a community that is uprooted from itself, the 27th city in the greatest country in the world, and dwells on psychological realities that are at once  'fantastic' and mundane.  A great read, but more complicated than it looks.  It would make a good movie, but it would have to be directed by John Waters or David Lynch.	2002-09-01
US	39236384	R31VLOVTP0DPHA	068485760X	858159018	The Queen's Bastard: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Wild, rollicking fun literary Historical ride!!!	This book is probably, no, definitely, Historically inaccurate, but so what?  It's the sequel to Maxwell's Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn, in which the newly crowned Queen reads her mother's diary and learns of the threachery of men, in particular her royal father, Henry VIII.  Having decided to rule without ever marrying, but telling no one of her decision, the headstrong and lusty young queen continues her affair with her equally lusty and power hungry favorite, Robin Dudley.  The two have a passionate relationship, and other courtiers are either trying to drive a wedge between them or simply don't trust Dudley.  Meanwhile, Elizabeth and Robin manage some degree of real domestic intimacy as they progress through England with Dudley's sister, Mary, her husband Henry Sidney and their son, Sir Phillip, the future poet, and visit their old teacher, the scholar/wizard John Dee.  In between debating the relative virtues of Mathematics and Astrology, translating Greek texts, and discussing the future of the Americas, Dee divines that a life grows in Elizabeth's belly.  Elizabeth is shocked and angry.  She does \\"not bleed like other women.\\"  It can not be possible.  But it is.  The determined Queen decides to give birth secretly and keep the child hidden until it is safe to make him heir to her throne.  But her devoted gentlewoman, Kat Ashley, and advisor, William Cecil, have other ideas.  It will never be safe for the Queen's bastard to come to light, they reason.  So little Arthur, Robin and Elizabeth's son, is switched with a stillborn baby, and is raised by Robert Southern, an old beau of Kat's, who, unfortunately for Arthur, has a nasty and crazy wife who additionally can't stand what she thinks is her husband's illegitimate son.  Thus, the tale really begins.  The lives of Robin and Elizabeth at court are intertwined with Arthur's upbringing and striking out on his own to fight in the Netherlands, as recorded in his diary.  There is, of course, a poignant misunderstoodmeeting, as well as a fabulous crescendo in the battle against the Armada which contains some pagan rites between Robin and Elizabeth (!), while Arthur is busy spying for his country in Spain and on the Armada fleet itself.  It all fits remarkably well together.  Maxwell is brilliant in that she only takes advantage of the room for speculation and never alters the facts themselves which she presents with seemless accuracy. This makes for a convincingly crafted work of fiction.  Leicester's love of Mathematics and Horses is very well drawn making him the most interesting character of the book, but Elizabeth and Arthur are also well-rendered as are other characters like the devoted Kat Ashley, the loyal Lord Sussex, the flirtatious Scottish ambassador, James Melville, Dudley's silly mistress Lady Douglas Sheffield, and the noble Dutch leader, William of Orange. If one or two of the author's devices are decidedly picaresque, so much the better for the entertainment value and essential romance of the narrative atmosphere.  A very engaging story that enthusiastically suggests the possibility that Elizabeth and Dudley just might have had more of a marriage than Henry VIII ever did.	2002-08-30
US	39236384	R3QVK5HPSUQURU	0816046573	369318414	Historical Dictionary of the Elizabethan World: Britain, Ireland, Europe, and America	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Lovely reference book	This book is fun to read, or to just pull off the shelf when something requires looking up.  The scope of the topics is quite helpful.  There are entries on Queen Elizabeth herself, subjects like her portraiture, various players at court, important families like the Howards, Dudleys and Seymours, as well as entries on political, cultural and religious issues.  Where else can you look up why transubstantion was so important to the religious squabbles of the time, and learn about the sisters of William Cecil's wife.  (The three women were the most educated in England.)  The book also conveys a great deal of information visually with particulary explanatory maps of Elizabethan England (find out how far it is from Sussex to Warwick to Northumberland, for example,) and Elizabethan London (find out how far it was from Whitehall to the Globe Theater,) impressive pictures of characters like Essex, Nicholas Bacon and Throckmorton, and tables which show who held which post in privy council when (as well as explanations of what those posts meant.)  The genealogical charts, of the Tudors, Stuarts, Greys, Howards, Valois and Hapsburg cannot fail to interest.  (One error I caught though: the French King Henry IV's first wife, Margaux, was not the mother of Louis XIII, but that's not so relevant for the Elizabethan period.)  There are also entries and illustrations of royal castles and properties of the time, as well as appendixes of Tudor related fiction, films and websites.  There's also a heck of a bibliography.  All in all a handy dandy reference book, visually appealing and informative, and entertaining taboot.	2002-08-30
US	39236384	R3FOK8CXL5OR4G	0140131914	410035544	The New Spaniards (Penguin Politics and Current Affairs)	Books	4	69	70	N	N	Scholarly and interesting	This must be a definitive review of Spanish society and culture in the last half century, and while it's certainly fascinating reading, it is oversaturated. It can be a bit difficult to get through learning EVERYTHING about Spain if you are a newcomer to the topic. The section on the press becomes passionately detailed. Hooper seems to give the names, political bents and histories (behind the scenes and otherwise,) of every newspaper and magazine printed since 1936, as well as statistics about readership levels among various classes and regions over time which he compares to those of Britain and other European countries. Granted the information, with his analysis, does make for a very vivid portrait of the country, but you may feel a bit as though you're being hit on the head with a hammer when he starts doing the same thing in a chapter on television broadcasting. I simply couldn't keep track of the TV stations, and what they were up to, who was running them, how and why. Though I did get the point. Spanish love television, and they don't seem to have a problem with government control of the medium.<br />On the other hand the chapters on education, the arts, film, and the significantly independent regions of Spain, to wit, the Basque, the Catalan and the Galician regions, were much more breathable, and did fill in many gaps in my understanding,(though there were far too many personalities to keep track of, and all involved in very intricate negotiations,) as did earlier chapters about the general History of the country, and how the conflicts, between the various nations which came to form Spain, still exist today. In the minds of most Spaniards, the formation of Spain as a nation was never a forgone conclusion. And Hooper covers this national psychological fragmentation, and its present day outpourings and consequences, with startling detail.	2002-08-29
US	39236384	R22CSQQEWW6DHV	0764552759	435357962	Cats for Dummies	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Well deserving of Praise	This kitty reference book really hits the spot.  Explains the basics of how to choose a kitty, how to get it home, what to do with it what you've got it home.  How to introduce it to family members, small and large, and other pets, also small and large.  Well-versed in the pitfalls of kitty care.  How to avoid fleas, how to get rid of them.  How to spot them.  Why never to touch a tick.  What foods and litters to choose.  Where to put them.  Why some cats can't drink water out of plastic bowls!!! (Who knew?) Where to get ID tags for your little Gremlin.  (Very helpful.)  The minutiae of  bathing kitty.  Which kitties need more grooming and bathing.  But there's also more interesting stuff, like how many fur coats different cats have.  (Most have four, but some only have two or three.)  What the different fur coats are for.  The Latin name of those cute little whiskers.  What they're for.  How many they have.  And why your overweight baby might get stuck in a hole. (Hint: vibrissae don't grow with added poundage.)  This book was obviously written by feline lovers for those who are infatuated and smitten with cats and kittens.  It's fun reading in itself, and will obviously be extremely useful for answering yet unthought of questions.	2002-08-29
US	39236384	RNXSKLITEE0T4	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	5	84	91	N	N	Fishy Recipe for History and Evolution	There's a cartoon in Matt Groening, the nine types of professors.  One is the single-minded type, as in \\"The country that controls magnesium controls the world!\\"  His main drawback is that he could be right.  Cod sort of reminds me of that.  You may not have known how important or popular this particular fish was to most of our ancestors in Western civilization, but, according Kurlansky, Cod was practically like bread.  It was easy to fish, there was a ton of it, and once Europeans learned the various ways of drying it (with cold and/or salt) all people could think about was trading this staple.  Yes, Kurlansky's book is single-minded, and at times you might forget this is a fish tale.  When the Vikings found America, what where they looking for?  And how did they manage to sustain themselves through the long ocean voyage?  The answers are of course, cod.  Kurlansky also has a few outlandish things to say about another favorite topic of his, the Basque, who it appears had been regularly fishing for Cod in Newfoundland long before Columbus found America.  They were really good at keeping a secret, you see.  Fortunately, there's a serious, or, at least more socially acceptable side, to Kurlansky's fish story.  The fishing trade really is threatened.  You can no longer practically walk on Atlantic cod.  Even Icelanders who found their entire economy changing from one of sustenance to a first world service economy, during the two world wars, have a difficult time protecting their dwindling stock. If Aldous Huxley's grandfather, Thomas, asserted in the 19th century that cod would never become extinct, it was only because he could not imagine the rapid technological changes which would turn fishing into harvesting, and the classic practice of drying fish into freezing it, on board the fishing boats themselves. Good bye bacalao, hello fishsticks.  It's a sad tale as ways of life dwindle and change, and even the very essentials of human existence that have lasted for thousands of years go unheard of by the post-industrial society.  But are we really evolving into something better?  Kurlansky peppers his narrative with quotes from notables throughout the ages and interesting, if often archaic, recipes.	2002-08-27
US	39236384	R48RFG72P3SPF	1842125605	146938249	Elizabeth & Leicester (Phoenix Press)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Queen Liz and her favorite courtier.	This book, writes Jenkins in the preface, is not a definitive biography of Lord Leicester.  That much is certainly true.  But is it the definitive biography of the romance of Leicester and Elizabeth?  Not either.  According to Jenkins, the romantic feelings of the couple were real, but Elizabeth was almost too much of a monarch, and too much the traumatized daughter of Anne Boleyn, to give into them on ANY level.  Jenkins satisfyingly explains this with much attention to detail, saying what Dudley and other important courtiers gave to the Queen at New Year's for example, and then commenting on the spirit in which the gifts were given and received.  And she maintains enough of a distance from her subjects, Elizabeth, and Leicester's relationship to her, to keep the mystery of their romance vivid.  One feels a History book about this couple OUGHT to be this detached and reverent.  One learns a great deal about the personal likes and dislikes of the great Queen (a very sensitive nose, a passion for flirting, a thirst for power) and reads the reported, but obviously public, dialogue between the couple.  \\"You are like my dog,\\" Elizabeth tells Robin, \\"whenever people see you they know I am coming.\\"  Snippets like this make it understandable that Dudley would have been a bit frustrated with his Queen and his love.  On the other hand when Dudley becomes curious about the Queen's relationship to her much younger suitor, the Duc D'Alenon, he asks her if \\"she is a maid or a woman.\\"  The Queen laughs and replies \\"a maid.\\"  Jenkins concludes, to the disappointment of Historical novelists everywhere, that this 'shows he had never deflowered her'.  Uhuh, or that he didn't want the entire court to know that he had.  That could explain why she laughed before answering.  Nonetheless, the book is a gift for its information and insight, particularly into the political world in which Leicester operated.	2002-08-27
US	39236384	RBGB28NUTPOYH	0415222664	849161296	Spain 14741598 (Questions and Analysis in History)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not bad, but limited.	This seems to be a review for a high school or college History course, but could be read by anyone interested in the subject.  Each chapter is divided into three parts:  narrative, analysis and (study) questions.  The first two parts are excellent: informative and interestingly composed.  The study questions are abhorrent.  No doubt they're designed to make students think more deeply about the subject, but they obscure it and render it more intimidating.  But you're safe if you don't read them.  Also there are some excellent maps, particularly of Spanish possessions in the Netherlands.  And that chapter is very well explained.	2002-08-21
US	39236384	R1XOKFDV8D0VRH	0762100389	262583430	The Perfect Kitten (Reader's Digest)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable fun reference book...	This book has helped me to understand the stages of development my new kitten, Princess Elizabeth Talker Mischief Wafer Fritter Gremlin Peekaboo, has just gone through, is going through and has yet to face. The author details everything from the various kinds of cat foods and litters to the minutiae of grooming (a soft toothbrush is helpful for the face and around the eyes) as well as body posture meanings and socialization requirements. There is a lot of good information, and I am sure I will refer to it again. Though I think some of the information, on dental care for example, could have been more in depth.	2002-08-21
US	39236384	R3TUAF9WROOVKY	0962781576	246572500	Algebra Unplugged	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Great Math book	Best of all the authors explain what it is you're doing when you do algebra.  Why doesn't it make sense in the real world?  Because it's a game.  The conventions may seem arbitrary but the rules are not.  The authors multiply things like tenors and pigs and divide them by all kinds of non-mathematical things in order to illustrate the logic of mathematical thinking. They also show that people are thinking algebraically even when they don't know they're doing so.  This is a great book if you took algebra a long time ago and are not  sure you remember the differences between the various mathematical disciplines.  It's also good if you are the type who wants everything explained to you in math, rather than taking it on faith.  It won't replace the standard textbook, but it will show you how to use it.	2002-08-21
US	39236384	R75P1CVLRR04D	0140258809	682605807	The Serpent Garden	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fun Stuff, Surprisingly good...	The book alternates between the first person of Susannah Dallet, the Dutch-English heroine paintrix, and the third person descriptions of evil deeds of an evil doing demon master and the demon he conspires with. Susannah is just hoot. She's innocent, but intelligent, not quite blissfully unaware of all the rotten stuff going on around her, and she sees the world through her art, in terms of color and pigment, and has quite a bit to say about faces and how to paint in miniature. Not to mention that she must resort to subterfuge to keep practicing her trade in the man's world that is Tudor London and the rest of Renaissance Europe, for that matter. Susannah just wants to paint and be a good girl, but unfortunately her society won't allow her to do both. Through a series of adventures she ends up employed by Cardinal Wolsey to serve in the train of Mary Tudor, bride of the old King Louis of France. The historical detail is excellent here, right down to Jane Poppincourt's affair with the Duc de Longueville, Francis 1 rst libido, and Louis' sending Mary servants back to England. Riley does a wonderful job fusing characterization with Historical fact, and then moving from art to the beyond with demons and angels. At first the demons are a bit boring, but when the angels show up, the whole supernatural element fits right in, and makes for a wonderful tale.	2002-07-20
US	39236384	R9CVWVLFHD1HB	0306809893	655016990	The Sisters Of Henry VIII: The Tumultuous Lives Of Margaret Of Scotland And Mary Of France	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very enjoyable and detailed History	Perry writes about the lesser known subject of Henry VIII's two sisters, Margaret and Mary who became Queen of Scotland and Queen of France respectively.  It's really a review of his whole family, which shows that his sisters, even as political pawns were much more involved in events than wife focused biographies and legends would generally show.  There is some early discussion of their parents, Henry VII and his Queen, Elizabeth of York, which shows how they inherited the royal propensity for pagentry and how, Perry's descriptions are sumptuous, the emphasis on sartorial wealth and jewels was really the political rhetoric of the day.  More than that, it seems also have been a business, and many conflicts and wars can be explained by the need for the Tudors to pay for all their nice clothes and jewels--even, or especially, they owed money--so that they can keep being royals.  Perry is as assiduous about the financial details as she is avid about the fashion details, and even if you aren't quite sure what the numbers mean the story is always readable, imaginative and intriguing, leaving its share of Historical what-ifs. (What if Mary's long-term youthful betrothal to Charles V of Spain had been honored, for example?) As one might expect Katherine of Aragon and Anne Boleyn get their fair share of mention, but the context of their tribulations seems at once more mundane and more majestic.	2002-07-20
US	39236384	RTVE1ZLK1NQAL	0312200390	773885570	Unicorn's Blood: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Holy Tudor cloak and dagger narrator!	This is the first book by Finney I've read, but she really is an excellent writer. Her prose is just beautiful. Her characters are complicated and intriguing. She may be the John Le Carr of Elizabethan historical novelists, but this daring Tudor spy novel also happens to be narrated by the Virgin Mary herself (that takes guts) and depends on the actions of a former nun who was disenfranchised during the Great Schism and is now an ex-prostitute, old, haggard, drinking her life away and a cleaning woman at the royal um, outhouses, who just wants to aquire a dowry for her great-granddaughter. Between the outhouses and various prisons Unicorn's blood has a bleak feel, but there is much adventure combined with holiness, and Queen Elizabeth's moments are priceless.	2002-07-20
US	39236384	RZP5EMZE5UWOB	038531129X	905531819	Mary Queen of Scots	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Good Academic biography	If somewhat dry. And there is an overwhelming amount of detail. Occasionally one gets confused as to the identity of the sources, why they were chosen, why their particular view of an event was chosen over another, or if another source wrote about the same event at all. Fraser, relies heavily on \\"Throckmorton,\\" Elizabeth's ambassador in Paris, and on the Venetian ambassador. Since it is a cousin of the first who is eventually implicated in the ultimate Marian plot against Elizabeth, it would have been nice if Fraser had elaborated on the perspectives of her sources. There is some very factual clearing up of misconceptions here though. That Elizabeth and Mary never met during all the years of Mary's incarceration quite shocked me.  The historical facts of Mary and Bothwell's relationship are explained, though the actual tenor of it is not ventured upon. Fraser's disparagement of the casket letters, which were used to convict Mary of complicity in the death of Darnley, her second husband, is quite convincing. She makes an excellent case that, whatever the original content, Walsingham and Cecil doctored the heck out of them. And there are poignant details, such as Mary's jurors wearing riding boots on the second day of her trial, indicating that the trial was in form only. I don't find Fraser particularly biased in favor of Mary though she obviously thinks well of her subject. A little more detail on Riccio and Darnley would have been nice, considering the vital role they played in Mary's expulsion from the Scottish throne.	2002-07-10
US	39236384	R12J6L7FG2GXNJ	0380818302	234867967	Daughter of Troy: A Magnificent Saga of Courage, Betrayal, Devotion, and Destiny	Books	4	11	12	N	N	It's a good idea but...	I enjoyed reading this.  Franklin is a proficient writer, and she's got the Homeric stylistics down well enough.  She has a good eye for detail, and she certainly knows her Ancient Greece, as the glossary of characters in the back shows.  It's fun to see such great characters as Aneas, Hector, Priam, Anchises, Paris, Menelaus, Helen, Agamemnon, Achilles, Patroclus and Odysseus again.  And some of her delving into the details of that time, how the economic system worked for example, give the story authenticity.<br />It's certainly an interesting, if not nearly impossible, idea to tell the story of the fall of Troy from the point of view of Briseis who is the catalyst of Homer's tale.  I had not even realized that Homer said as much about her as he does.  Franklin gives us his quote of her mourning the death of Patroclus at the END of the novel, and nothing she has written really contradicts that.  He said that she was \\"gorgeous as sweet Aphrodite,\\" which is fine, but at the beginning of the novel somebody has to point out every six lines how incredibly beautiful Briseis is.  She gets laid like nobody's business.  The sex scenes unfortunately have a certain ring of Jackie Collins.  When the story goes back to her childhood she meets Helen who tells her she's going to be a great beauty.  She's a priestess of the local version of Athena and has powers of 'augury', which are unfortunately not very convincing or developed. The Goddess is a live presence to her and yet, in the telling of her tale she insists that Aneas is just the son of a PRIESTESS of Aphrodite and that Achilles had no magical invulnerability.  That kind of takes the fun out of things.  Also taking the fun out of things is that Agamemnon emerges as a stock villain who at times seems to have escaped from the 'you must pay the rent' sketch.  A little more love triangle would have been nice.  Meanwhile Briseis is everywhere, she's in the thick of every negotiation, even though she's of course not supposed tobe, and she even impresses Odysseus with her wit and intelligence.  Aaaargh!  This isn't Jean Anouilh or Henri Bauchau writing about Antigone.  You can't take it too seriously, but you can have fun reading it.	2002-07-02
US	39236384	RW5Z6F459LTZV	044100900X	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	4	0	4	N	N	I liked this Sci Fi version of Jane Eyre.	Sharon Shinn is a very fluid writer. She adapts the tone and idioms of a gothic/victorian romance so effortlessly that at first you don't realize she's doing it. The physical world is still threatening, but nature on other planets assumes toxic pollutive qualities. It isn't just storms that have to be worried about, but the failure of generators which artificially sustain a liveable atmosphere. The heroine isn't a governess, though there's a little girl who has one of those. She's a nuclear engineer and repair technician. She isn't an unwanted orphan, but the product of an artificial conception and gestation for pay that became unwanted when the scientists of the time invented the artificial womb which led her adoptive mother to have a child of her own. There's a caste system, but not the tacit one written about in Victorian England. It's a future systematic where class is officially recognized and there are degrees of limitation on the half-citizens', or half-cits', rights to marry, have children and inherit and own property. So it's a definitely a future world though the narrative is neatly lifted from Jane Eyre. Shinn's ability to interweave the science fiction elements, ideas and techspeak, with the old-fashioned and darkly romantic story and language is remarkable. There's even a tree which perfectly represents the quality of hybrid this novel successfully achieves. You have to like this sort of thing, but if you do, then it's for you. An easy and entertaining read.	2002-07-02
US	39236384	R33TUDKPPJJEAM	0345417402	845769908	Romancing the Shadow: A Guide to Soul Work for a Vital, Authentic Life	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Not usually into psychology/self-help	I went through a phase of that when I was teen and never really recovered, but this book is different.  I don't know if the term depth psychology applies, but it certainly brings the concept to mind.  The author works in Jungian concepts of archetype and shadow and seems to assume familiarity with them.  Like many books it has a number of examples, but I found them more detailed and better related to one another.  By reading this book one spends some time with the concept that a relationship, with oneself, or a significant other, is continuously evolving and never fixed, but that it can be stable.  Zweig gives us the idea of a the third person in a relationship who can be a threatening other or the unity created by the couple, but usually both.  This combines with the artistic, rather than scientific, analysis of the Shadow,  to create a useful tool which encourages the reader to pinpoint what it is they really want from a relationship, as opposed to what they think they want.  It's very easy to be confused on that subject, especially in our society where there's no such thing as an emotional education.  You have to do your own work though.	2002-06-21
US	39236384	R1Z27ASUCYJZ90	0312273150	231015250	All About All About Eve: The Complete Behind-the-Scenes Story of the Bitchiest Film Ever Made!	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More of All About Eve	If you want more of All About Eve that goes beyond just watching it again, this is the book for you.  This isn't any kind of scholarly analysis, nor is it a work of pure gossip.  It's an intelligent and informed discussion of how this brilliant film came to be.  It's purely shocking how every single part could have gone to several others, fascinating and sometimes sad to read how these great actors interacted with each other.  Staggs also includes discussion of the short story on which the film was based, and discussion of the reality on which that story was based.  I enjoyed knowing that all the more since I wasn't really familiar with Broadway Theater of the time or its great stars.  We also learn that there was a sequel short story More About Eve.  My only disappointment with All About All About Eve was that the author didn't see fit to include the short story, or its follow-up in the book, nor even to explain why he didn't.  That would have been very interesting reading.	2002-06-10
US	39236384	R258ERJ5KXGQYM	0743418263	452670847	Music & Silence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just a pleasure, a masterpiece, a real work of art...	You wouldn't think the author of Restoration would be able to or need to outdo herself. You wouldn't think the Danish court of the seventeenth century would provide content for such a substantially lyrical and visually evocative narrative of sentiment. From King Christian to Peter Claire, his lutenist, to the men and women whose lives they touch and whose lives they are caressed by, Tremain describes her characters with the utmost sympathy and respect for their individual natures however foibled. Ultimately a brilliant tableau will present itself before the mind's eye that demands above all a celebration of life in all its forms and times, even down to the myriad tragedies of destiny. A personal and philosophical novel that transcends any limitations as \\"historical novel\\" and becomes a colorful treatise on the wonder of the human spirit. Sublime.	2002-06-08
US	39236384	R3OPFYB53NKNPR	0761514236	273298023	Today I Will Nourish My Inner Martyr: Affirmations for Cynics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Do you like to laugh out loud?  Then get this!	Funny hilarity will ensue as you read these maxims for personal growth.  A welcome respite to our age of self-help and self-analysis, that nonetheless contains at its core a philosophy of well-being that any twelve stepper or any hardened skeptic could be proud of.	2002-06-08
US	39236384	R1ASMMGTS403YR	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Angels? Fantasy? Romance? It works!!!	Bit of a surprise that anything that could it under the heading \\"Angel Fantasy Romance,\\" would be anything but terrible. But in fact the Samaria trilogy is great entertaining reading, and if you're like me you'll want to wolf them down. Shinn seems to know her Hebrew folklore, or if she doesn't she does a good job faking it, and her angel lore and new testament, and she manages to create a world with its own rules that are followed and make some kind of intrinsic sense. And Samaria has a very definite sense of culture amid the fantastic elements. Each book provides just the right amount of romantic sap, in a way that the standard romance book is most often too insultingly stupid to manage. And the nice thing about the trilogy is that there are reversals that will force the reader to reevaluate what they are willing to accept in the first place. So Shinn keeps you on your toes in this trilogy as well as entertaining and soothing. Warning, I read these in 1, 3, 2 order, and I still think that's the best way to go. You will see why when you read them.	2002-06-08
US	39236384	R2DKIU2QN0LE8G	0553574418	980219925	Remake	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A book that grows on you...	Connie Willis is undoubtedly a genius, but even geniuses have their failures.  One is tempted at first to think that Remake will be one of her lesser works, even if by no means a failure.  But really it's up there with her greater books.  The characterizations, of the narrator/hero in particular, are good and entertaining.  And the premise/setting of a Hollywood in which thanks to digital technology every actor is entirely interchangeable (but good scripts are obviously still in short supply or can't get made) works vividly well.	2002-06-08
US	39236384	R3OU0196S19729	0140378251	815348183	The Foundling: and Other Tales of Prydain	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Finally! More Prydain!	Excellent allegorical fables/short stories set in the magical land of Prydain.  Sure it helps alot to know and love the characters from the five book series, and if you do you're sure to love this little book.  Dalben, Hen Wen and Fflewdur Flam get their own stories.  And other characters are introduced.  But each story stands on its own as an enchanting and imaginative tale.	2002-05-20
US	39236384	R2E8NT57GH4H7Y	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	4	18	21	N	N	The sidelines of History?	It's hard to understand why Mary Boleyn was relegated to the sidelines of History.  The sister of the beheaded Ann Boleyn, the aunt of Queen Elizabeth, and the mother of two of Henry VIII's illegtimate children, including a much coveted son, should rate more interest.  But such was the strictness legitimacy laws at the time, that no child who was definitely illegitimate could inherit the throne.<br />Gregory tells the story of Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII, Ann Boleyn, the formation of the Church of England and intrigue<BR>at the Tudor court from the point of view of this salient but much neglected Historical character.  Her Mary is really just a child at the beginning of the novel, and she never outgrows valuing love over power.  Her value for love and genuine caring for the effect of her behavior on others contrasts sharply with the hypocritical selfishness and merciless intriguing within the all too glittering Tudor court, and more ironically with her family, the grasping and ruthless Boleyns/Howards who pimp out their daughters to the whims of their excruciatingly spoiled and divinely selected monarch.  Ironically Mary finds that she must use her abilities as a courtier to defend and hide her own values, not to mention her children, from the court as well as her family.  Meanwhile her sister Anne marches inexorably towards historical immortality and personal destruction.<br />Mary is a sympathetic and interesting character, and Gregory<BR>does a good job of painting the vivid attractions and tragic flaws of<BR>the Tudor court, including the manipulation of religious law for<BR>personal gain.  At times Mary's ability to outgrow the pettiness of her training and environment seems underexplained, at others one would like to hear more detail about court personalities and customs.  Nonetheless The Other Boleyn Girl is well written and an enjoyable reading experience; highly recommended for those who enjoy dabbling in Tudor England.	2002-05-20
US	39236384	R1HJC4OUE8UMP1	0486282015	398754274	The Thirty-Nine Steps (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Get the Dover Thrift Edition of the 39 steps	Not bad.  Voice certainly recalls Robert Donat's portrayal of the protagonist in the Hitchcock movie.  Only here Richard Hannay is South African not Canadian, he's a miner not a penny novelist, we<BR>never see the show he goes to, there's no romance at all, and it's set before WWI not WWII.  The anti-semitism is a red herring, mainly the domain of one unreliable character.  An easy worthwhile read.  And Hannay's adventures in Scotland are funny.	2002-05-15
US	39236384	R2Z48HZNRNCQEZ	0586087745	612317511	Night At the Movies Or You Must Remember (Paladin Books)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great selection of short stories with cinematic themes...	You must remember this features the love of Rick and Ilse as you've never imagined it before.  Other stories offer a colorful<BR>though often sadistic portrayal of the place where reality<BR>meets the celluloid imaginings that too often seem to dominate<BR>our lives.  Wonderful, clear, easy to read prose.  Bitingly honest.	2002-05-15
US	39236384	R1MKODSAUFRT54	0618219064	150294181	The Wind Done Gone: A Novel	Books	4	5	15	N	N	Stunning and Vulgar.	A postmodern pastiche in the style of Robert Coover's A Night at the Movies.  Beneath a gentle narrative tone of wistful nostalgia the author exacts revenge from GWTW for neglect of racial realities with strident reverse stereotyping.  Unpleasant.	2002-05-15
US	39236384	R2V7WFYHJMEI6X	0553580302	698766211	House Harkonnen (Dune: House Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fun, satisfying space-opera page turner...	Sometimes I think maybe people take DUNE too seriously.  It is a great testament to the power of the series that it consistently<BR>manages to be so philosophical, pulpy, and entertaining at once.  This book follows the stories of many familiar characters, Duke Leto, Jessica, Baron Harkonnen, Reverend Mother Helena, the Emperor Shaddam IV, Rabban, Duncan Idaho, Gurney Halleck, Count Fenring, Piter De Vries, Liet Kynes among others, and adds a few new ones such as Rabban's father and mother, a renegade household, the Verniuses, and C'tair a rebel on the planet of Ix who is the twin brother of a HUMAN Navigator, D'murr.  There is certainly a lot of material here, and at times it seems almost too much, but that is what Space Opera is for, and the resulting &quot;brings up as many questions as it answers effect&quot; is kind of nice.  Perhaps one day we'll find out a little more about the Butlerian Jihad. (And it's all still hugely symbolic.) There are discrepancies, which is to be expected in any long running epic series.  The only one which really bothered me was that Fenring supposedly built the Conservatorium in the Palace on Arrakis for his wife, the Bene Gesserit Lady Margot.  I believe the primary works implied its origins were a little bit more legendary.  But it's still a fascinating portrait of a VERY SICK human race imperceptibly struggling, one hopes, for recovery, and it's all the more a fascinating read for the dark, conflicting and increasingly ironic philosophies that permeate.  I hadn't read House Atreides, and I didn't really have very much trouble with using House Harkonnen as a starting point for the new series.  But you do need to know the base characters before hand.  You'll learn about Paul's brother, Jessica's sister and how Rabban got to be called &quot;the Beast.&quot;  And if you're like me, you'll think Reverend Mother Helena has a heck of a lot of nerve testing anyone for being human.	2002-05-11
US	39236384	R1EB0WY17SCM32	0140266348	543648921	Richard III: England's Black Legend	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Excellent accessible scholarly history	I got this as a result of seeing Ian McKellen's film version of the Shakespearean play.  It left me wanting more History as well as more Drama.  I had heard that Shakespeare was essentially writing anti-Richard propaganda, since the man who defeated him, Richmond, went on to become Henry VII grandfather of Queen Elizabeth.  But while the truth is no doubt more complicated than the play suggests, Seward convincingly shows that Shakespeare got the essentials right even if he did take a few liberties.  He doesn't merely elucidate the character of Richard himself, but of those around him. The Woodvilles, Ann, Catesby, Tyrell, Brackenbury, the Duke of Buckingham and Lord Stanley were all real players in Richard's rise and fall, well known at the time for their victimizations through or their contributions to his tyranny. (Catesby for example was known as the Cat in a popular rhyme of the day.)  Seward gives an in depth though not necessarily complete view of the constraints and shared assumptions they were operating under which eventually leads to the characterization of the King himself.  It's difficult to tell how much of Richard's tyranny stemmed from the bloodthirstiness of the times he lived in, or if good really triumphed over evil at Bosworth field, and Seward makes no assertions to that effect.  But he does throw into sharp relief the flaws that earned Richard his bloody reputation, and they aren't saintly ones.  He is also very clear cut about which primary sources he is drawing from, Thomas More, Dominic Mancini and the Croyland Chronicler, how they culled their information, and how he reads them.  I'm sure there's a wealth of information on this subject, yet I found this book to be a very satisfying introduction.	2002-05-11
