US	39266233	R1B50I27U7G6W9	0767920376	670364843	The Gift of Valor: A War Story	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A poignant tale of a Marine who gave his last full measure.	The story of Cpl Dunham and his squad in combat in Iraq, is not an objective history. Nor is it simply a biography of one Marine's life and the story of his premature death. It is the story of his ordeal and his sacrifice for the Marines in his unit, and the impact it has on the people who take care of him for his final journey home. This isn't meant to be a political screed for the war, or against it, it is simply one Marine's life and death, and an acknowledgment of his valor. To that end, I hope everyone can see that anyone that smothers a grenade with their body, does so with the expectation that they will not survive, and if they do, it will be with severe injuries. One can only hope, Cpl Dunham is at peace, where ever he may be.  <br /> <br />This excellent book is very hard to put down, and will draw the layman into the world of Marine grunts, and the threats they face everyday in Iraq. It also details the ordeal of their relatives at home and the process for injured Marines returning to the US. Highly recommended.	2005-06-21
US	39266233	R1P3IJ6ITFTBKM	0451215109	448491599	Biggest Brother: The Life of Major Dick Winters, The Man Who Lead the Band of Brothers	Books	4	36	36	N	N	An excellent biography of a true hero.	I hope this book doesn't get pigeonholed into a \\"Band of Brothers\\" also ran. It's not that kind of book at all. It was never meant to be. I don't know what book the previous reviewer read, but it seems pretty obvious to me, this book is about the life of Richard Winters, before, during, and after his service in WWII and not just a recap of his WWII service. <br /> <br />This man has lead a meaningful, and deep life, caring about not just HIS men, but his fellow humans. He has gone above and beyond the call of duty in following his own personal sense of duty and honor, time after time. I also don't fault him with the callousness of his treatment of german civilians during WWII, simply because they deserved it. It was also interesting, that Major Winters clarified that Pvt Blithe did not die in 1948 as portrayed by the mini-series, but instead made a career of the Army and died in 1967. <br /> <br />How Major Winters' life progressed after WWII was also a very interesting. He had been faced with limtied options after leaving Nixon Nitric Works, but he had prevailed over time, and learned enough to start a small yet prosperous business of his own after a short time in the animal feed industry. <br /> <br />His response to the public in the aftermath of \\"Band of Brothers\\" has been better than most people would handle such fame, and he has also gone out of his way time and again to reply to fan mail and uninvited visitors regarding himself and his friend's time in WWII. However, it seems very obvious, that this hero is near his end. He is very tired, and he wants to spend what little time he has left, in peace, with his family and diminishing circle of close friends without all the excess attention. I hope everyone that reads this book, respects those wishes. <br /> <br />Finally, I wish Major Winters the best, and an \\"Easy\\" Final Jump when he sees that green light one last time.	2005-06-05
US	39266233	R1WKQSIVGZR7FH	0312336853	915101016	Shooter: The Autobiography of the Top-Ranked Marine Sniper	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A gritty first person account of USMC sniping.	The author starts his tale by grabbing the reader's attention and then, never lets go. Considering the basis of this autobiography is for popular consumption, the author doesn't go much into detailed or technical points of his profession, but glosses them over while providing enough depth to maintain the atmosphere of authenticity in his story. <br /> <br />Throughout this book, I was always struck by the grit and the realism of the situations presented by the author. The rewards, and costs of being a Marine sniper in a combat situation are palpable, and left an impression with me. As a sniper, they are always aware of the humanity of their targets, who are usually unaware of the fact that they are being targetted from afar, so they have no warning their lives are about to end. It's quite telling when the author admits to being visited by ghosts at night, and I hope that frequency decreases with time. <br /> <br />One of the most important issues the author raises in his autobiography, is the needed change in doctrine for USMC snipers in the modern urban environment. The old tactics are too slow for a rapidly changing urban environment, and snipers can be an effective suppression tool as described in depth by the author. <br /> <br />Overall, I highly recommend this book, mainly for the pure entertainment value of the story presented, but also, as a highly informative source on the fluid nature of warfare in the present conflict in Iraq.	2005-06-03
US	39266233	RQX55LD9ZHI85	1416906703	946932155	The Story of My Life: An Afghan Girl on the Other Side of the Sky	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A inspirational story for all ages.	Ms. Ahmedi is a very strong young lady, and she will be part of the new face of Islam as the century moves forward. Having read the story of her life and her experiences, it seems obvious she has overcome obstacles far in excess of her years, and learned a restraint and serenity in dealing with others, that many people never attain in their life, much less by age 12. Her autobiography is also revealing of the the relative isolation of women in central Asian society in general, even among more \\"enlightened\\" families like hers. Most revealing was her yearning for a new life in Germany once she experienced the lack of conflict during her time in treatment there. <br /> <br />There are a lot of cultural gems buried within her story, and her experiences should provide hints as to the differences in perception that Afghanis of all ethnicities will have compared to how a westerner would perceive things in general. It isn't a complete catalouge of course, but it is highly informative nonetheless. <br /> <br />As to the previous reviewer's statements about Ms. Ahmedi being taken advantage of in regards to book royalties. It is a simple matter to write to Simon & Schuster's public relations office, and ask if the claim is true and if so, express public condemnation. I am more than sure many news outlets would love to publicly embarass a major corporation for taking advantage of a former refugee new to the US and unaware of their rights.	2005-05-16
US	39266233	R2GUYWI1J9QCWJ	0393049248	648234425	The Eagle and the Rising Sun: The Japanese-American War 1941-1943: Pearl Harbor through Guadalcanal	Books	4	17	17	N	N	A good operational history from Manchuko to Guadalcanal.	Having read extensively on the subject matter within this book previously, it was nice to read a build up to Pearl Harbor (making the subtitle of the book somewhat of a misnomer) and not just diving into the war in the first chapter. I had read the history of SE Asia preceeding WWII in bits and pieces mainly, but had never read anything where the author skillfully and successfully put it all into a compelling narrative before. <br /> <br />Additionally, the author frequently added small biographies of many important historical figures. Some last less than a page, others up to five pages of information (like McArthur). Regardless, these are revealing and convey excellent information to the reader regarding motivations, personalities, and mannerisms. <br /> <br />In several cases the author presents evidence about such historical figures in a somewhat objective manner and lets the reader form their own opinion before either lambasting or praising the actions of such figures. Never over the top however. <br /> <br />Largely, the author doesn't get into much minutiae regarding combat operations and instead concentrates on policy decisions and operational history and the people that made or reacted to these events. That's not to say there aren't any reference to combat and it's impact, however it's just not a history intended to be that detailed in this regard. Regardless, it is still compelling and highly informative about the personages and policies of the period in question. <br /> <br />Overall, a highly regarded operational history with detailed information on the people who made the deicions at the time. Maps are decent, but not detailed and the bibliography is well documented as well. Not an unflawed history by any means, but certainly full of relevant and detailed information in the areas specified earlier.	2005-03-08
US	39266233	R521E6QE22798	156731645X	562066541	Dungeon, Fire and Sword: The Knights Templar in the Crusades	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Chivalry, barbarity, courage, cowardice, honor, & treachery.	I have never read a more enlightening history than this one. In one medium sized book I have had a whole lot of conceptions and assumptions destroyed, and many questions and uncertainty have replaced them. This is simply the result of a very well written and informative book.    I had always heard clues and hints about the \\"Knights Templar\\" but never understood the import of this military order. I had also never understood the plight of the crusader states, nor the politics of the era or the region in question until reading this book. The author's entertaining and comprehensive yet not overly detailed history has changed that shortcoming in a profound and I hope.....lasting fashion.    Mistakes are documented as well as triumphs. Victories as well as defeats are recorded in detail. I have been in turn, inspired, disgusted, chagrined, and dismayed at events, tellingly portrayed by the author. I do fault the author in one area, poor (aka nonexistent) documentation of original sources. More maps would have been nice as well, however the history is still easy to follow along with a general knowledge of regional topography of the \\"Holy Lands\\". While there are maps included, none are regional, and they are only provided for a few battles.    In conclusion, I highly recommend this book as an introduction to the history of the Templars, the crusades in the Holy Land, and the Crusader states (and their downfall) as well.	2004-12-22
US	39266233	RZBPXPV8S6KNL	1585674028	787049495	The Spartans	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An excellent history of Hellenic Sparta	The author presents the Spartan people as they were recorded by their contemporaries and how their accomplishments were mythologized and demonized throughout western history ever since. He attempts to look at this civilization with it's many aspects and weaves a history of considerable scholarship. I have read many books and manuscripts about hellenic Greece, yet this particular book outshines them all in my opinion. I got to have a ringside seat and watch the Spartans rise, conquer, and dominate before being stripped of their power as first her leaders and then her society as a whole failed to adapt to a rapidly changing world. I was sad to see the Spartans in decline, even though I knew it was inevitable and they weren't what would be considered \\"civilized\\" by modern standards since they practiced terrorism and a form of eugenics.  <br /> <br />The Spartans weren't out to save Greece per se, just their place in it, and only by helping to save (and dominate) almost every other Greek polis, could they hope to maintain their power and they knew this. The insight into Spartan society, politics, religion, and strategic goals in relation to \\"Xenoi\\" or foreigners (anyone not Spartan, not just non-greeks) was simply fascinating. This was a book I was always reluctant to put down and happy to take back up, I'll be looking for more of the author's work in the future. This history more than showed the debt of enormous magnitude the Western world owes the ancient Greeks of Sparta, and how her more noble ideals are recognized and admired today.	2004-12-13
US	39266233	R1HJTQ07BTN8JC	0812968999	861869401	Craze: Gin and Debauchery in an Age of Reason	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Good data, yet a lot of faulty assumptions.	I really wanted to like this book. The author exhibits some very fine scholarly research, but I don't agree with many of her conclusions. Of course a lot of social organization is based on preserving the power structure of those \\"on top\\" and the cyncism in her conclusions is manifest, especially regarding the morality of the clergy in the time period involved, even when they are popular among their own parishoners. <br /> <br />However, the most troubling and I think erroneous data the author displays, is her projection of the past data (and her own conclusions regarding social structures and morality) onto a modern framework. She even states that reported comments from modern addicts like \\"drugs are better than sex\\" is nothing but sensationalised classist alarmism. Nothing in my opinion could be further from the truth. I know addicts that have made just that claim regarding several drugs, and they meant what they said. To have this author, claim that such statements are in any way sensationalized is very indicative of an agenda, at least in my opinion. <br /> <br />To summarize, the author exhibits excellent scholarly skills in relation to 18th century London's history, but poor conclusions, especially regarding applicability to social phenomena in modern times.	2004-11-09
US	39266233	R1Y41PQD1BM3BY	0743244508	663516219	The Battle of Salamis: The Naval Encounter That Saved Greece -- and Western Civilization	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Excellent, yet missing minor elements to fill out the story.	An excellent survey history, of the battles leading up to Salamis and the battle of Salamis itself. The author researched many of the topics very well, and presented a clear over all picture of this conflict, yet fumbled in some minor areas. <br /> <br />Being an avid amateur greek historian, specifically about the era involved in this survey history, I would have thought the author would explain that Leonidas had fought at Thermopylae against the wishes of the Spartan Ephors. I had thought he would also have mentioned that Leonidas was only accompanied by the body guard a Spartan King is entitled to (therefore very elite), and not a part of the regular Spartan army (as he identifies this body guard as being on page 4). In addition, in regards to the Spartan practice of combing their hair before battle to intimidate their foes, I would have thought he would further clarify they do this, so that in case they die, they will look \\"beautiful\\" when they are called before the gods, a pointed hint to their foes, that they are prepared to die and will not break to run. <br /> <br />The author's presentation leading up to Artemisium was informative, and included details of greek Trireme construction, crewing, and tactical employment. He included maintenance, logistical concerns, and those of Athens spiteful greek allies as well. In addition, the literal translations of greek words and phrases in the context of their usage was a nice and informative touch also. The best part of this book for me, was the aftermath, where the post battle fall out, for both the victors and the vanquished was interesting to read. I had always wondered what happened to a few of the main figures that took part in this historic battle, and my curiosity was satisfied as well as it can be. <br /> <br />In summation, this book is an exceptional piece of literature for the topic involved even with it's minor detractions, and I would recommend it highly for either the interested layperson or the amateurhistorian.	2004-09-12
US	39266233	RI2D9F2IP2FBN	0553802577	767640279	The Last Stand of the Tin Can Sailors: The Extraordinary World War II Story of the U.S. Navy's Finest Hour	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The best  historical account. of the Battle of Leyte Gulf.	When I was a young adolescent, I wasn't like other kids. I actually read about WWII history. When I found out my 7th grade English teacher was a \\"Fireman\\" in the boiler rooms of the USS Pennsylvania facing the Southern force in Surigao Strait, I bombarded him with a host of questions, and my classmates had no idea what we were talking about. Suffice it to say, through my previous reading, I thought I was pretty knowledgable about this naval battle. <br /><br /> <br /><br />The author has blown that preconception out of the water. He brings the level of scholarship on this battle to a whole new plane. The meticulous research he has undertaken shines forth in this account, and it is simply an incomparable work. No matter if you have previous exposure to historical accounts of this battle (specifically for Taffy 3 and it's air groups facing Kurita's Central force, Southern and Northern aspects are not as in depth), or not, this book is the definitive work on the topic. Included is the deep and detailed bibliography. A true historical gem.	2004-08-19
US	39266233	R1XG1HWWWN91WK	1594200203	809431414	The Right Nation: Conservative Power in America	Books	5	27	31	N	N	An interesting perspective on American conservatism.	A truly innovative read, and I wanted to give this book a 4.5 star rating, but that's not possible. The half star deduction was for what I consider some minor points in a subjective work. The authors present a lucid and interesting series of observations on just what makes the US different in it's domestic politics from other western countries, as well as the rest of the world. <br /> <br />While most of the observations are accurate in my experience, the authors (who are british) due tend to get a little preachy about things they don't agree with in the US, but it's pretty subtly done as well. Particuarly, some of their views on American capitalism is a bit uninformed in my opinion, or maybe they have their own British prejudices towards \\"economic justice\\", although I consider that unlikely. <br /> <br />Regardless, the scope of the book ranges from history of the foundation of the American political system, the present administration, American culture and attitudes, economic and sociological trends, as well as the theoretical underpinnings of the US constitution and the reasons such agressive capitalism isn't just tolerated, but encouraged so much in the US when it is more constrained in other developed countries. <br /> <br />Some of the insights and theories are presented clearly and thoroughly, as well as comparisons with other states and observations by indivudals associated with a related cause or ideology. In fact, the best part of the book, was the detailed analysis and breakdown of America's particular brand of conservatism (as a hybrid of classical conservatism and classical liberalism), which was very much on the money as far as I am concerned. The section on future trends was quite revealing as well, and one can only hope, we (as a country) avoid the potholes in the road of progress that the authors have noted to lie before us. <br /> <br />In summation, an excellent and informative book which should be required reading for anyone seeking to understandthe US conservative phenomena in more detail.	2004-08-15
US	39266233	R13G7N6NCA0KD7	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	1	8	N	N	An excellent overview of the history of English.	As the title says, this book is quite informative on the origins and progression of English specifically, and to an extent, language in general. Mr. Bryson's prose ranges from informative exposition of historical facts to a flood of linguistic trivia. Rarely in this book does he linger on the vacuous, but it happens from time to time, but not for a great duration either. Overall, a highly recommended survey linguistic history book that concentrates on English.	2004-08-07
US	39266233	R3FLDYGFJM87Y7	0094719306	390155966	Attila, King of the Huns: Man and Myth (Celtic Interest)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Attila and friends.	Patrick Howarth does a good job of writing a short and cogent book establishing context and &quot;factual&quot; evidence for the conduct of Attila before and during his reign. It reads more like a well done generalized history of beginning of the Eastern Roman empire as well as the decline of the Western Roman empire as much as a history of Attila's short rule of the Huns (and dominating the associated allied barbarian kingdoms) than anything else. It is concise, informative, and well done, but it could have been improved greatly with maps. I definitely would not fault the bibliography however. <br />In addition to the aforementioned, the cultural after effects of Attila and the Huns, and how they had been portrayed in popular European history during various periods of European history is of great interest also. Variously such portrayals in literature, plays, or opera have been used for political purposes to inspire or motivate for a specific purpose, domestically or internationally, show how pervasive and influential the effects of Attila's rule are even today when properly manipulated.<br />In sumation, a well written, introductory history of Attila the man and his environment which has served to further pique my interest in the period of history in which the Romans and barbarians were contesting for dominance of Europe.	2004-07-19
US	39266233	R2AX2R0DGBWOAX	0871139111	474618201	Thunder Run: The Armored Strike to Capture Baghdad	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A well researched history of the &quot;Thunder Runs&quot;.	An overall well done history of the &quot;Thunder Runs&quot; to demonstrate to the press, the Hussein Regime, and the world that the US was in Baghdad, and in Baghdad to stay. A gripping account of the mismatch in quality and quantity of forces, underscored with accounts of the gory details of combat.<br />This history shows overwhelmingly, that modern armor forces are matchless in dominating a low-tech enemy with poor local command and coordination. The toughness of the heavy US MBTs as well as the IFVs comes through in this book as cited in numerous examples. The overall toughness and adaptability of the US troops comes through as the overriding factor however. Using their skills and teamwork, the American soldier not only penetrated into the depths of the Hussein Palace complex, they then fought numerous battles to preserve logistical lines of contact, sometimes in thin skinned ammo trucks and fuel tankers in a hot battle zone, and then fought through the debilitating loss of the Brigade command post to an SSM to persevere against thousands of Ba'athists and Syrian mercenaries in making a claim to Baghdad's symbols of power.<br />In summation, a well researched book, written in clear pose, with a little bit of dry objectivity thrown in, a recommended read for amateur theorists and military enthusiasts.	2004-07-13
US	39266233	R2A96JBPNXU279	1594030502	8930408	Dawn over Baghdad: How the U. S Military is Using Bullets and Ballots to Remake Iraq	Books	5	26	35	N	N	The best kept secret in Iraq, courtesy of the western media.	In contemporary America, the media reports the bloody details to keep an American public glued to the TV with apprehension over Iraq and the WoT in general. The military can't do much to show the public it's side of the story either, it can't force reporters to go out and show the good news as well as the bad, and of course, for the most part the press refuse to do so.<br />Enter Karl Zinsmeister with his newly released book, Dawn over Baghdad. Those of us who have friends in Iraq may get a glimpse of the true picture in Iraq, the hardships our troops endure, and the difficult accomplishments they fulfill on a daily basis that pass unnoticed by the selective eye of the western media. However, for those that do not know where to blog or don't know anyone deployed in the military that can relay more balanced news regarding Iraq, this book is an important breath of fresh air.<br />It isn't particuarly long, nor is it particuarly deep. It is however, just enough detailed information about the positive side of the US military operations in Iraq to whet your appetite for more. US Brigade commanders dealing with Iraqi mullahs, patiently, and firmly, preventing outbreaks of jihadist violence when possible, yet skillfully handling such outbreaks when they are inevitable. Dealing with everyday people, trying to cajole the managers of state owned plants to start engaging in capitalism and to put their employees back to work. Dealing with chronic electrical outages, ironically due to the increasing demand for electricity due to new appliances even while capacity is higher than before Operation Iraqi Freedom took place. Senior US officers making sure that Iraqi women always have a representative voice in the forming government, even when the mullahs claim Iraqi women do not want one. So many tiny, fascinating sociological battles that our media is missing, simply to play up blood and carnage for the benefit of murderers and cutthroats who care about no one.<br />The writing is inspired and purposeful, but due to the time limits at any one point in the author's travels, his book doesn't dwell long an any given situation, and it certainly does not resolve anything he presents. The situation in Iraq is still developing, and it will for quite a few years. However, this book is an excellent insight into what we as a country are truly trying to do, and how well our troops are doing it. It is a life preserver of optimism in a sea of despair, which makes it much more valuable and critical right before the changeover to Iraq's sovereignty on June 30th, 2004. One can only hope the mainstream press takes notice and tries to set the record straight.	2004-06-28
US	39266233	R42GGJ444K2MD	0399151931	752362767	Generation Kill: Devil Dogs, Iceman, Captain America and The New Face of American War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Face of Marine Recon in OIF	Evan Wright has written an American classic in war time journalism. If you never serve in the military and want just a taste of action, this is the closest you can get without raising your right hand.<br />The 1st Recon Bn in OIF is used to make feints all along a string of towns leading to Baghdad to keep the enemy forces off balance and allow the main force components to make rapid progress. Evan Wright is there as a reporter, riding sometimes in the point vehicle even as it willfully goes into ambush situations time and time again. He notes the mannerisms of the Recon Marines around him, meticulously quoting some of the most hilarious statements and incongruous actions ever made by humans at the most innocous moments in combat. The level of competence, concern and attempts to do the &quot;right thing&quot; is reassuring. Alternatively, the tragedies, and mistakes due to incompetence and irresponsibility within one unit is at times excessively shocking. The overall humanizing factor was the portrayal that the Marine's themselves are so shocked by the acts they witness and at times engage in to survive in this combat zone.<br />For an authentic look at a USMC Recon Bn in battle and to gain some insight of day to day concerns of a small unit in a combat zone, &quot;Generation Kill&quot; delivers a gritty yet enthralling ride. One I could not put down. The five stars is definitely well earned.	2004-06-26
US	39266233	R2E64OHTJ2I42E	0670032999	510215142	Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A contemporary history of the Bush foreign policy elite.	An excellent overview of the six primary members of the Bush foreign policy team. Rise of the Vulcans contains, a short history of every &quot;Vulcan&quot; beginning early in their political career with some information on their family background, economic circumstances, and education. A comprehensive look at the political interplay between the Vulcans and their mentors or their adversaries in previous administrations, this book explains how they shaped their views on American dominance in the post cold war world. For the purposes of understanding the motives and the aims of American foreign policy in the post-9/11 world, it is an invaluable tool. To his credit, the author took pains to remain objective and it is reflected in his work. The one incident I may have a problem with as written in the book, is the De Villepin &quot;ambush&quot; of Colin Powell in the UN Security Council as Powell is trying to make a case for a new UN resolution to justify the invasion of Iraq, wherein this particular incident is so understated, it's barely noticeable.<br />In summation, this book is highly recommended and will be an integral first source for many in trying to understand the reasons and motives of the present administration in foreign policy.	2004-06-25
US	39266233	RNK9TFOAS9DAI	0743257499	397461193	Civilization and Its Enemies: The Next Stage of History	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Welcome to reality.	The author eloquently and concisely states the causality of the present conflict with our enemies and the actions of our erstwhile allies before, during, and after Operation Iraqi Freedom in a more abstract fashion. Never before has anyone concisely written why we have an enemy, what we must do, and why we must win and preserve civilization. Along the way, he debunks fantasy ideologies, deconstructs modern cosmopolitanism in contrast to the Hellenic Greek philosophy of cosmopolitanism. The author utilizes the Hegelian dialectic to further demonstrate the total lack of substance within &quot;new age&quot; philosophies of &quot;relativism&quot; and &quot;subjectivism&quot; as well. He even shows a bit of canny wit by coining some worthy catch phrases when referring to the antics of &quot;anti-liberalism&quot; western liberals (quite a dichotomy lies just within that phrase as well), such as &quot;serial nihilism&quot; for example. <BR>If you've ever wondered exactly what is wrong with modern liberal academia that have rejected classical liberalism in the name of &quot;progressive thought&quot;, reading this book should provide many answers to that questions.<BR> <BR>In his summation the author also lays out in plain and simple terms what is needed to allow the progression of western civilization, and the benefits world wide that result from the adoption and adaptation of western ideals world wide. However, considering the amount of hostility towards western ideals from western academia at large, holding out hope for such a spontaneous ideological reversal may well be a fantasy ideology of its own.<BR> <BR>To summarize, if you believe in classical liberalism as a beneficial ideology, buy this book, read it, give it to friends &amp; family or tell them about it, do what you must, but make sure the word about this book gets out. If you don't believe in classical liberalism as a beneficial ideology, reading this book is probably your last hope. If you read it, and it doesn't raise any doubts about modern liberals and their fantasy ideologies, then denial isn't just a river in Egypt.	2004-04-26
US	39266233	RVE81PQLLL1I1	0674011740	747409495	Surprise, Security, and the American Experience	Books	5	9	13	N	N	An analysis of US security from a historical perspective.	Mr. Gaddis clearly and concisely delineates the various changes in grand strategy the United States has embarked upon over the course of it's existence. He frames his thesis by contrasting the first significant external attack on America's sovereign soil in the burning of the White House in 1814, and then the infamous attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 with 9/11. He follows up with an insightful analysis of TDR's statesmanship that enabled Truman to set up the successful Cold War grand strategy of containment. He then continues with a generalized analysis of the post-9/11 change in grand strategy and traces that to the present situation in Iraq and Afghanistan. He analyzes the intent behind our engagement in the Middle East, and while it is well meaning, he considers it unlikely to provide the beneficial results the present administration is hoping for. Unlike most pundits and naysayers however, he actually has a couple of useful suggestions, that are quite constructive within the context of present US doctrine. Overall an excellent overview of US strategic thought and an excellent analysis of strategic security psychology from the US perspective. This book definitely makes the indivudal think about differing historical perspectives, and cause and effect in the international system. Highly recommended for the educated lay person.	2004-04-05
US	39266233	R1ON2PZWEJXXHR	1893554856	45375245	Anti Americanism	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Revel reveals the roots of European angst against the US	In a most insightful book, Revel not only debunks excessive Anti-Americanism, he lays bare the reasons why it is embraced so willingly in Europe (specifically France) and around the world. What better way to hide your shortcomings and inadequacies than to highlight the \\"evil\\" of a giant that threatens the world at large with \\"faulty\\" judgement and is \\"excessively attached\\" to agressive means to solve international problems?<br />Revel usues biting commentary, witty sarcasm, and precise logic to deconstruct and lay bare many popular uses of [tricky] Anti-Americanism. I find this book so well written, and the arguments so well made, that I am going to buy many of the author's other books and read them as well just to examine and learn his critical style. Many investigative journalists and aspiring policy analysts could learn from this man's example.<br />In summation, the information and examples are priceless, the logic faultless, and the presentation made my emotions range<br />from breathless with disbelief to incredulous with laughter. A highly recommended book for those seeking some answers to the constant refrains of \\"America is at fault!\\".	2004-04-02
US	39266233	R2OZC9W16YNFQW	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An excellent book, with a couple of arguable conclusions	This is easily one of the most topic clarifying books available to the public to help understand the present US/European turmoil. Wisely, the author leaves it to the future to decide if the US and Europe will be truly able to continue their close relationship and present to the rest of the world, the facade of &quot;The Western Civilization&quot;. I do find fault with the author's assertion that the American period of dominance is certain to last several decades more, and he even uses Kennedy's classical strategic overextension argument to support his assertion, in claiming that the US does not overextend itself as other powers have in the past and will therefore be able to extend it's period of dominance well into the future. Regardless of one's opinion on such minutiae however, it should be evident, that the author has produced a well written, compelling, and lucid analysis of the US/European relationship and how each views the other and their respective place in the world for the present and leading to the near term.	2004-03-26
US	39266233	R1QXCIJLX4YVY9	0309089050	242016353	The Last Sorcerers: The Path from Alchemy to the Periodic Table	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Humanity's understanding of matter.	This book was very entertaining, and balanced as well. The author managed to keep a decent balance between the alchemy/chemistry/physics topic and the alchemist/scientist that used it to further explain a property of matter. Dr. Morris begins with Aristolean alchemy and progresses to string theory, giving an overview along the way, as well as amusing anecdotes. It should be noted that whether through an abundance of historical documentation or simply because of personal preference, it seems the author tended to favor anecdotes/mini-biographies of some scientists over others, like Boyle, Cavendish, Rutherford, and Bohr. While this didn't detract from the book, it is worthy of note. In summation, this book lays out the progression of understanding matter from mystic Aristolean alchemy to the latest multidimensional theoretical models, and the scientists who got science to the point it is at now. I recommend this book highly for the non-scientist, as well as the scientist who is a little light on his scientific history. There is also a decent bibliography with sufficient documentation for primary source checking.	2004-03-22
US	39266233	R31A5BFJX65D6Y	0899193528	517751214	Frederick the Great: The Magnificent Enigma	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A Magnificent Biography of Frederick the Great	This book may be out of print, but it certainly is not out of style. Mr. Asprey does try to maintian a degree of objectivity throughout the book, but he doesn't always succeed. Nevertheless, this book shines with in depth research of nearly every aspect of the life, politics, loves, and military considerations of Frederick the Great throughout his reign. There is a near 100 page bibliography in the back, replete with sources for further reading. The way the author wove the story of Frederick of Prussia was masterful in holding my attention as well as making me more interested in period politics of the era. What a fascinating era in European development. What a fascinating human being Frederick the Great was. A true humanist philospher king forced to embark upon a war of expansion to ensure his country would be able to dictate it's own course in the near future of Europe (through Germany as he envisioned it) and beyond. A truly cruel and engimatic circumstance to be trapped in as an enlightened human being during the mid 18th century. I cannot say enough good things about this book. I emphatically recommend it to anyone interested in this period of European history. Good coverage of historically significant battles with terrain maps and battle line progression provided as well.	2004-03-10
US	39266233	R1LSZVQ6N314Z8	0007163061	351414171	Dreams of Iron and Steel: Seven Wonders of the Nineteenth Century, from the Building of the London Sewers to the Panama Canal	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An excellent survey of fantastic 19th century engineering	Engineering can at times be less than interesting, yet it was not always so. During the middle of the 19th century, materials and automated power made new endeavors that were once far-fetched dreams, bright new possibilities. Deborah Cadbury skillfully holds the reader enthralled during the tale of each endeavor, laying out the politics, players, economics, and natural obstacles that confronted the dreamer engineers who sought to make the world more civilized and safe for their fellow human. The one aspect of each engineer that struck me above all, was simply the nearly masochistic work ethic each of them displayed in their attempts to accomplish their dream. <br />All but three of these engineering marvels are notable because of the large impact they had on civilization at large, not simply within the geographic area in which they were manifest. <br />The three exceptions are monuments to overcoming fantastic environmental challenges to save lives and safeguard property that serve as examples of excellence and durability to this day. <br />Another aspect of these marvels that presented itself unexpectedly, was the assistance from, or directly to the medical profession from at least three of these projects. It is actually somewhat frustrating to think how many lives could have been saved if only someone had listened to the medical professionals at an earlier point in these specific endeavors.<br />To summarize, the subject matter is relayed in an entertaining fashion, with due consideration to detailing the people and their motives within the scope of each project, yet without compromising a suitable measure of objectivity. There are more detailed books regarding each project, but I believe &quot;Dreams of Iron and Steel&quot; manages an admirable compromise between informative detail and skillful story telling to merit five stars for excellence and motivational inspiration to succeed.	2004-02-21
US	39266233	R3669T0UU5OZLF	0802713122	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not quite enough depth or breadth for my taste.	Longitude certainly isn't a bad story, just a somewhat constrained one. Within the scope of the book, the story is interesting and well researched. However, one should note that there is a bit more to the history of this solution for dependable navigation due to the problem of longitude than Dava Sobel adresses in this small history. This does not detract from the observation that Longitude is an entertaining and informative (and factually accurate) read nonetheless.	2004-01-31
US	39266233	R272AGTFVK90CW	0316092169	383072471	The invasion of Canada	Books	5	18	21	N	N	An excellent overview from the frontlines.	This volume is an excellent introduction to the War of 1812. The Canadian author maintains his objectivity throughout the volume, and gives accurate and telling details to causes, politics, and leadership on both sides of the northern North American border and how that affected the progress of the war. After reading this book, the reader will come away baffled and outraged at the level of incompetence shown on both sides (initially the US side however), and the level of audacity and caution exhibited by both sides as well. In summation, a highly recommended book, that will provide a good base upon which a detailed understanding of causes, effects, and results of many aspects of this war can be attained.	2004-01-23
US	39266233	R1WD8TMUQVI6TH	1580621120	906766379	The USS Essex: And the Birth of the American Navy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best kind of history.	The misleading title of this book would lead one to believe it is mainly about the USS Essex. Technically (off the cuff guesstimate of 60/40 split), it is; however the plethora of data about shipboard operations, training, pay, rations, ship building, Barbary pirate conflicts, the Quasi-war with France, skirmishes with British ships, the War of 1812, biographical vignettes about US captains and future US captains, and future admirals as well, all in addition to the main topic of the frigate USS Essex is an excellent overview of the history of the ship itself and the early history of the US Navy. In addtion to all that, the narrative quality shines forth to show a very intricately woven story about the character of the men and officers as much as the ships themselves and the history they made. Highly recommended for those interested in the topics detailed above. Finally, the bibliography itself is a font of raw information on further sources relevant to the subject matter.	2004-01-23
US	39266233	R2V1TO2QJSXW0S	0316092177	812072109	Flames Across the Border: The Canadian-American tragedy, 1813-1814	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The second part of a two volume history of the War of 1812.	Pierre Berton's second volume of the history of the War of 1812 is as polished, accurate, and gripping as his first volume. In fact, he even goes into detail over the hardhships and difficulties endured by the US diplomatic delegation seeking an end to the war, and the internal turmoil the war causes in the New England states of the new republic. He details the rise of a younger and more competent officer corps, in both the US Navy and the US Army, which greatly improves US performance in period battles compared to the earlier military disasters of the war. He further details the improved performance of Canadian militia in upper Canada, and goes into some detail of the burning of Washington DC (and documents the reasons leading up to it in suitable depth). In summation, an excellent companion to the first volume, concentrating on relevant occurrences and facts, and using excellent narrative prose to hold the reader's interest throughout. Highly recommended.	2004-01-23
US	39266233	R3CSCRC4C9PN8P	0345426355	302173523	Monitor: The Story of the Legendary Civil War Ironclad and The Man Whose Invention Changed the Course of History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The first pre-dreadnought	Monitor skillfully holds the reader spellbound about the ship, and her irrascible genius inventor. I also came to realize just how technically advanced this ship was compared to her contemporaries. This book is a quick and powerful read that you don't want to put down, and it conveys the depth and level of accomplishment achieved by John Erriccson in getting her built in the short time he did. An outstanding history replete with circumstances and entertaining anecdotes as well. A highly recommended book.	2003-11-06
US	39266233	R22ZWBBIHR1LNO	055380376X	682515279	The March Up: Taking Baghdad with the 1st Marine Division	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Xenophon redux?	There are going to be a lot of books about OIF. There were simply too many reporters for their not to be in the next year. However, to get a book, and such an excellent book written by two men (both former Marines themselves), that understand combat, logistics, operations, the fog of war, and most importantly the Marines involved in The March Up is going to make this book stand out from those that follow it's lead.<br />This story is filled with masterful anecdotes conveying brutality, indiference to danger, empathy to tragic circumstances, grievous mistakes, ignorance, fleeting command confusion, survival, death, anguish, and trial by fire. The technical capability of the troops, the competency of the officers, the capabilities of the NCOs, and the combat readiness of the Marines shine forth in this book. However no one is perfect, yet even the faults displayed are simply a contrast to a well organized and disciplined professional fighting force, more than any detraction of ability. The grit is as real as the dust layered on the vehicles of 1st MarDiv as they smashed into Baghdad, and what you experience will leave you with pride in  the young men this country still produces to serve as Marines. Semper Fi.	2003-11-05
US	39266233	R1EETJ2HVNWT8P	0375508619	513748034	The Hunt for Bin Laden: Task Force Dagger	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Some great anecdotes yet not the whole story.	Mr. Moore is obviously predisposed towards Green Berets, and that much is evident to the attentive reader. However, his bias does not detract from an informative body of work about the beginning of the Afghanistan campaign in the US War on Terror. The anecdotal stories of the teams, preparation, and insertion are very interesting on their own. What goes on in Afghanistan afterwards due to the actions of the A-teams is also astounding in many respects, out of all proportion to their available manpower. However more than a little pointless ire is directed towards other US services IMO, to no great benefit for anyone, especially not for my own reading experience.<br />I also don't think that Mr. Moore makes enough mention of the difficulty in influencing proxies instead of commanding loyal forces. There is a world of difference, and would have changed more than a few outcomes if there had been enough US forces in the region. However that was not possible for obvious reasons.<br />Overall, I highly recommend this book, due to the amount of information in it regarding the first strike against Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. It has it's biases, but they aren't serious and the book has gripping stories.	2003-09-12
US	39266233	R2QUYWB2MFUPTQ	0080374379	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier: The Classic WWII Autobiography (Brassey's Commemorative Series WWII)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	If you accept Guy Sajer as legitimate	This book is stupendously gripping. I've served in the military, but I have never encountered such unspeakable ferocity, desperation, and naked will to live as I have in this book. The inefficient Wermacht supply system is readily apparent from the story. The sense of frail hope and crushing despair sets into your bones with each new Russian offensive, and escape seems impossible, or if possible, simply fleeting. Sacrifice, pain, death, and every destructive scene will float through your mind as you read this book, and you will know war, as well as is possible without taking part in it.<br />If Guy Sajer is a fraud, well it's not a crime, but it should be. Then again, we may never really know. Make your decision after reading his book.	2003-09-09
US	39266233	RITKCM1W28Z2F	0375758186	392377088	The Travels of Marco Polo (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Classic information from a classic read.	If people really try to think back, to how things were in the ancient world, and see how improbable a journey Marco Polo and his father and uncle undertook, and then completed nearly 30 years after they started, they would probably realize how unlikely such a journey was and why so many people attack Marco Polo as a fraud. Nevertheless, simply as an historical Atlas of China, and with an incredible historical context, warts and all, it is a very illuminating book, showing Chinese cities using their ancient Mongol names (in what other context would someone serving the Mongol emperor record the city names?) and allowing the reader the opportunity to research and discover for themselves, just how fascinating and mysterious other ethnicities and other cultures were to a European of the middle ages.<br />One of the most fascinating aspects of \\"The Travels\\" is not just some of the factual innaccuracies, but the apparent perceptions of Marco Polo, fully willing to believe he had found the final resting place of the first man, Adam, and the wizardry of other peoples, the ability to do magic, and a legend of giant \\"Rocs\\" near Madagascar, and how the Khan sent a small expedition to investigate the rumors of such.<br />If you want a book that makes you ask searching questions about humanity, cultural bias, and the importance of lore and myth in cultures, this book is invaluable.	2003-09-06
US	39266233	R3KWA16U5QG22P	0446524999	593108560	The Arcanum: The Extraordinary True Story	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The development of Europe	There were many advances during the rennaisance era in Europe that are far reaching. You would think that something so ephemeral as a luxury item wouldn't have much impact, but history demonstrates otherwise. Deception, espionage, war, and even treason were common occurences in 17th and 18th century Europe. All that in pursuit of the secrets for making porcelain is conceptually challenging to say the least.<br />When one alchemist searching for the legendary philospher's stone performs one illusion too many, he finds himself a \\"guest\\" of Augustus the Strong until he provides him with the gold he needs to pay for his extravagantly decadent life style. Fortunately, for the alchemist, he's bright and talented, and just may provide the king with another type of gold to keep the executioner at bay. <br />The Arcanum, is well written and researched with an extensive bibliography. I was very impressed with the level of scholarship exhibited by Ms. Gleeson. Considering the subject matter, and my preconceptions, I was suitably suprised and impressed at what I learned.	2003-08-05
US	39266233	R19B7TSCBYR5O1	1893554457	439951201	Heaven on Earth: The Rise and Fall of Socialism	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Anecdotal, historical, and absorbing.	Having never read a book whose main focus was socialism and/or communism before, I was a bit surprised at the scope of this book. Dealing with the leaders, theorists, idealists, and the actions they took to attain the ends they saw as justified, no matter the cost, was quite revealing to me.<br />I was shocked, sickened, and sometimes just surprised by the actions and attitudes I read about. Sometimes it is simply very hard to believe how people can willfully delude themselves into thinking people will eventually behave as they dictate they should.<br />One of the most surprising aspects of information I learned, that was very informative however, was the birth and rise of the non-socialist US labor movement. Initially the US labor movement had been hijacked by ivory tower intellectuals, and it was finally won over by hard nosed Americans seeking economic results for their fellow laborers instead of ideological experiments for socialist dabblers of academia.<br />Reading about the US organized labor involvement in supporting the Polish \\"Solidarity\\" movement in helping to plant the seeds of democracy and reform in a communist state was quite a revelation as well. Anyone who thinks that US organized labor is socialist, doesn't know much about socialism.<br />In short, if you aren't very informed about socialism in general, this book is an excellent read to inform you about the basics and overall history of socialism to date, as well as show how nearly every fascist leader of WWII, started out as a dissaffected former socialist/communist.	2003-07-21
US	39266233	R27STK9DY0PBCU	0385504519	998837056	Into Africa: The Epic Adventures of Stanley and Livingstone	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A tribute to exploration in the Victorian age.	With an encompassing narrative, and detailed descriptions of people, circumstances, and places, \\"Into Africa\\" is a worthy read for simple entertainment. Learning about Livingstone and Stanley, was engrossing, and learning about their respective journeys through Africa was harrowing and at times defied belief. If ever anyone needed an example of pure determination and pursuit of a goal, and then accomplishment, this book delivers. Showing an emotional aspect, Mr. Dugard demonstrates that attaining a near impossible goal can also result in more intangible rewards, such as Stanley's maturation through his ordeal in Africa to find Dr Livingstone. If you never think history can be exciting, read this book and you will be disabused of that notion. Warring tribes, hostile natives, opportunistic chieftans, Arab slavers, constant disease and inummerable parasites (non-human), all combine to form a formidable obstacle for these intrepid adventurers.	2003-06-23
