US	39291966	R1L233TP2R0U03	0812580036	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	5	1	1	N	N	excellent, even in the 21st century	It seems odd to review the 19th Century classic Oliver Twist, but the richness of the tale and the strength of the message is not out of date in the 21st Century.  Realizing that this tale was going to be replayed on the big screen at the end of September, I decided to pick up this classic tale a read it.  Dickens'  second novel is a story of an orphaned boy taken in by a motley crew of robbers gives us a stark fictional story of the considered strength that good has over evil intentions.<br /><br />The character of Fagin, the lead villain with a passionate criminal philosophy, will be played by Ben Kinglsy and Oliver will be played by the newly introduced Barney Clark.  The 19th century backdrop, the make up and modern touch are sure to excite audiences when the film is released September 30th.  Like their popular and academy award winning film, the Pianist, Roman Polanski and screen write Ronald Harwood will surly due this popular Dickens' classic justice.<br /><br />The unassuming good nature of Oliver Twist as portrayed by Dickens in spite of his troubles and the evil that surrounds him throughout the novel makes this timeless tale fiction for sure, but provides a ray of hope to those who believe that good intentions, in the end, merit a reward.  Saved by his benefactor, Mr. Brownlow, Oliver's \\"wrongs\\" are righted as Mr. Brownlow discovers the truth of Oliver's story through Nancy, the girlfriend of Bill Sykes, another master robber.  Placing her life in jeopardy, Nancy discloses all to Mr. Brownlow who, while he saves Oliver, is unable to save Nancy from death at the hands of Sykes, once provoked by Fagin.<br /><br />With characters like Pip and Joe in Great Expectations and Madam Dafarge and Cruncher in the Tale of Two Cities, Dickens provides no less a colorful cadre of descriptive characters in Oliver Twist.  Fagin, mentioned earlier, is the lead robber with a description that only Dickens can describe literally.  Dickens' introduction of Fagin as a \\"very old shivelled Jew, whose villainous-looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted hair\\" is certainly descriptive and has, with the upcoming film, caused some critical stir.  While certainly lesser known than Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code controversy which will hit theaters in May of 2006, the character of Fagin will likely get some critical attention when Oliver Twist is released at the end of the month.  The Ben Kinglsly recreation, though, should be interesting to see.<br /><br />\\"Artful,\\" the quick and cunning lead thief in Fagin's pickpocket gang, is truly in a class by himself as he artfully picks an unsuspecting passer by's pocket and dodges capture. The colorful artful dodger is a character most readers can easily remember and enjoy.  And, who can forget the bumbling, spineless miser beadle, Bumble, who is in charge of Oliver during his tenure at the orphanage.  Other rich characters stand out, too, in this timeless classic made for film, like Mr. Sowerberry, the undertaker who takes Oliver from the orphanage and first puts him to work.<br /><br />A novel of this detail and length certainly cannot be reproduced in its entirety on film.  I understand this work is no different, according to the Oliver Twist Teaching, (...) One of the interesting revelations in novel not reproduced in the film, according to this site, is Mr. Brownlowe's discovery that Monks is Oliver's half brother.  In the novel, Monks seeks to keep secrete the inheritance and history of their family from Oliver.  Instead of the ultimate discovery by Oliver of a box that contains his family's history he so longed to understand, Fagin leaves him a box of stolen items. Ah, Hollywood!<br /><br />Despite this exclusion, though, the film, like the novel, will likely be an enjoyable one for all ages, including students in high school who are enjoying the novel for the first time.se villainous-looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted hair\\" is certainly descriptive and has, with the upcoming film, caused some critical stir.  While certainly lesser known than Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code controversy which will hit theaters in May of 2006, the character of Fagin will likely get some critical attention when Oliver Twist is released at the end of the month.   The Ben Kinglsly recreation, though, should be interesting to see.       \\"Artful,\\" the quick and cunning lead thief in Fagin's pickpocket gang, is truly in a class by himself as he artfully picks an unsuspecting passer by's pocket and dodges capture. The colorful artful dodger is a character most readers can easily remember and enjoy.  And, who can forget the bumbling, spineless miser beadle, Bumble, who is in charge of Oliver during his tenure at the orphanage.  Other rich characters stand out, too, in this timeless classic made for film, like Mr. Sowerberry, the undertaker who takes Oliver from the orphanage and first puts him to work.          A novel of this detail and length certainly cannot be reproduced in its entirety on film.  I understand this work is no different, according to the Oliver Twist Teaching, (...) One of the interesting revelations in novel not reproduced in the film, according to this site, is Mr. Brownlowe's discovery that Monks is Oliver's half brother.  In the novel, Monks seeks to keep secrete the inheritance and history of their family from Oliver.  Instead of the ultimate discovery by Oliver of a box that contains his family's history he so longed to understand, Fagin leaves him a box of stolen items. Ah, Hollywood!     Despite this exclusion, though, the film, like the novel, will likely be an enjoyable one for all ages, including students in high school who are enjoying the novel for the first time.	2005-09-15
US	39291966	R212N65P5N5SZR	080507886X	496766923	Alibi: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	enjoyable	Joseph Kanon provides us with a good understanding of what it must have been like in post WWII Italy in his novel, Alibi.  An interesting tale about those in Italy who had to \\"go along to get along\\" during the occupation of the county during WWII.   Hard to believe if you were not there, but Adam, the main character has no trouble judging the actions of those involved when his love interest, Claudia, exposes the actions of Adam's mother's future husband during the occupation of Italy.      Determined to keep his mother away from a potential \\"gold digging\\" husband, Adam does all he can to uncover the  questionable past of his future father.  Ironically, Adam is thrown into a delima of his own when he confronts Gianni.  Alibi takes off from there into an interesting mental and physical chase that provides the reader with a lot to think about.	2005-08-22
US	39291966	R3D7FPP0IS0O74	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not the traditional McCullough	1776 is an interesting synopsis of an amazing year in American history. From the win by the \\"rabel in arms\\" in Boston to the difficulty in New York and the great victory in trenton, the story that unfolds is always fun to read.   <br /> <br />As told by a great author like McCullough, though, it was somewhat disappointing.  This is so not because McCullough does not give the reader a vivid image, but his previous works like John Adams and Truman set the bar so high and this book just didin't meet that standard, in my view.  Knowing his work, made this book less enjoyable, unfortuanately and that is why I provide only four stars. For a first time reader of McCullough, though, my presumption is that you will find this an enjoyable read.	2005-07-26
US	39291966	RQBKRRTG4NUXK	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Bush and Kennedy are not that far apart politically	Robert Dallek gives a strong and balanced assessment of the life and times of JFK in An Unfinished Life.  An appropriate title, coined by Dallek's wife, Dallek's book provides some notable differences from the hundreds of other biographies, angles or conspiracies surrounding the life and times of JFK.  The generational timeliness and Dallek's analysis of new medical material released in 2002 on JFK provide some important insights not covered in previous works on JFK.      While there are certainly many interesting things about JFK to write about and authors have, the current events reader will enjoy the striking similarities between Kennedy and Bush in an era of political redefinition.  Unfinished Life is a timely and interesting work on an important political period in American history, showing that the distant past provides a closer reality than the political divide so often reported in American politics today.	2005-05-11
US	39291966	RA8Z3GDRG5S8Q	0786868414	511065138	Leadership	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable, especially if you like politics	New York City is better off becasue of Giuliani. In his book, Leadership, he is not afraid to tell us why he did such a good job as Mayor of New York.  Ego, yes, but the results are there-- the City is cleaner and safer as a result of Giuliani.   <br /> <br />In his own words, Giuliani tells us how he made the City a cleaner and safer place to live.  The philosphy and actions taken are enjoyable to read.  The interesting thing is most of the strategies are simple, but that is what leadership requires--an understadable plan of action that can be implemented.  While Giuliani makes it sound easy, I am sure it was not.  <br /> <br />Those not interested in politics, may not find this book all that enjoyable. I enjoy the science and found what Giuliani did while Mayor of New York very interesting.	2005-04-28
US	39291966	R1NDNA2NLCQJRI	0743262131	917728591	The Path Between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal 1870-1914	Books	5	1	1	N	N	well done as usual	McCullough never ceases to please and the Path Between the Seas: The Creation of the Panama Canal 1870-1914, continues this trend.  He's written about great politicians, such as Truman and Roosevelt, and about significant engineering feats such as the building of the Brooklyn Bridge.  <br /> <br />McCullough always brings out the human drama that unfolds beyond his main subject and, in the Path Between the Seas, he provides us with the human tragedy and events that went into the making of the Panama Canal, the great passage way between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans.  <br /> <br />The French were the pioneers in this Panamanian adventure and the strength and resolve that they put into the Canal, as told by McCullough, was astounding.  To finish the job, McCullough provides a vivid accounting of the revolutionist action to form the independent county of Panama so that the Americans could complete the Canal.  <br /> <br />Designed to expand and enhance commerce and provide a valuable and quickened pasage way for the defense of the continents of South and North America, the Panama Canal is probably taken for granted today. But, the human sacrifice and courage that went into this great engineering feat is not lost because McCullough provides us with the footprints of history on this grand adventure.	2005-04-23
US	39291966	R1YC7NHJL6W6YJ	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The imposing figure in the American Revolution	Joseph Ellis in his latest work, His Excellency, brings forth the character and life of George Washington in a shortened, but informative way.  As he does in Founding Borthers, Ellis highlights the important parts of his historical subject for us and gives us a good understanding of the times surrounding his subject.    First in War, First in Peace and First in the hearts of his countryman, as Ellis points out from Henry Lee's words define Washington's life so well.  As a commander, nation buidler and gentleman, Ellis' Washington jumps off the pages and never lets the reader go.      Read this one.	2005-01-06
US	39291966	R37UEUQHPA0O90	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Historical Literary Fiction	With the popularity and interest of Dan Brown's the \\"Da Vince Code,\\" a new genra of hisortrical literary fiction has cropped up in American literature. While the \\"Rule of Four\\" by Caldwell misses my mark, the Dante Club by Mark Pearl, in my view, brings  this genra to a new level.   <br /> <br />Set just after the American Civil War in the City of Boston, a group of well known poets and literary giants get together to translate the Itialian Dante's Inferno into English.  Peal makes this fun and understandable when he writes in a murder mystery with some significant twists and turns to keep the reader interested.  <br /> <br />Peal's writing leaves a vivid image of Oliver Wendell Homes Sr. and Henry Wadsworth Longfello running in the streets of Boston to chase down the unimaginable \\"lucifer\\" who is killing as they  trasnslate Dante's Inferno into English.  In the notes at the end of the book, Peal states that in the novel he attempts to keep close to the historical record and he fulfills that promise as the story unfolds.   <br /> <br />The book is well written, historically enriched and, most important, enjoyable.   Dan Brown, the author of hit novel the \\"Da Vince Code,\\" comments that Peal is the \\"new shinning star of literary fiction...\\".  He is!  If you liked the \\"Da Vince Code,\\" you'll love this one.	2004-11-27
US	39291966	R3M8LUC9RBOQ9P	0743254392	378897199	Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A nice trip though China	Though Jung Chang's eyes, China is revealed though the years of her life and those of her mother's and grandmother's.  She vividly presents the historic changes that have taken place in China over the last 100 years. The book is an enjoyable journey you shouldn't miss.	2004-11-22
US	39291966	R1GAM8HEOJCGZP	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Don't expect Da Vinci	If you are reading the Rule of Four based on reports that it is just like Dan Brown's Da Vinci Code, you will be disappointed.  I have read the Da Vinci Code and the Rule of Four is no Davinci Code. Don't get me wrong, the Rule of Four is a good read, it just does not live up to the hype that it is as good as Brown's book. <br /> <br />The books are similar and the comparison is legit and understandable. Both have a super sleuths looking for clues to unraval the mysteries established in art and literature.  Both contain an underlying love interest that develops along the path to discovery of something left for us to find out from the renissance period. <br /> <br />They depart, however, when you are asked to believe (I realize this is fiction) that a pair of Princeton seniors can unlock the mystery of a book written in the mid-1400's.  The Da Vinci Code, where Robert, a professor of religious symbology, takes the reader through the teaching of Sophie, Robert's book made partner (and eventual love interest), about the signs and signals contained in art throught history is just more believable.  In the Rule of Four, Caldwell asks us to believe that a couple of 22 year old seniors at Princeton can unlock the mystery of a book written in the mid 1400's. <br /> <br />It is fiction, folks, but the difference is the believability of the development.  On this score, I think the Rule of Four falls short.  It is a creative, faced paced fiction tale, you just will be disappointed if you have bought into the notion that it is another Da Vinci. On the topic of making you think a little more when you look at art, read literature or listen to music, both books deserve a five star rating.	2004-07-31
US	39291966	RMIWGIN30AF0H	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a true classic	Set in the early 1900's, a tree grows in Brooklyn by Betty Smith is an old classic we should all revist.  The reader continually finds him/herself cheering for the sterdy little girl who forms the main character of the book, Mary Frances Nolan.  <br />The book tells of the struggle of a typical family living in that time.  It shows the poverty, the happiness, the utter love for the opportunity that America provides and the pride that first and second generation immigrants felt at being in America.  Though Johnny Nolan, the witty, talented, drunk father of Francie, Smith shows how, even in poverty, a typical &quot;johnny&quot; enjoyed his freedom and opportunity in America.  Johnny's conversation with Francie about the opportunity to drive a car if you could afford it (chapters 25-6), not based on who you were, shows the real love of the American dream of getting ahead on your own merit.  Each such conversation is equally compelling and satisfying on the topic presented by Smith. <br />Smith's portrayal of the relationships that Francie had with her mother, Katie, her aunts, Sissy and Eve, and, in particular, her brother Mealy, are so well defined and understood.  Like  Dickens, Smith, through these relationships and personalities, has the reader identifying smilar characters in their own life. <br />A reader will really enjoy this classic and I would recommend it highly.	2004-06-24
US	39291966	RYRGWELF320RQ	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	5	11	13	N	N	THE DEFENCE OF AH	In his new book, Ron Chernow sets the achievement record straight on one of our lesser-known founding fathers, Alexander Hamilton.  The book goes well beyond the brilliance and foresight of Hamilton in his work as our country's first Secretary of the Treasury.  <br />In this biography, Chernow gives us a rich historical background of Hamilton's significant imprint on the American Revolution, the establishment of our government and the sharply divided disputes that took place between most of the founding fathers and Hamilton.  <br />Wielding his power and influence as Secretary of the Treasury, Chernow shows us where the extreme dislike arose between Hamilton and Jefferson, finally resulting in Washington interceding and requesting both parties to put aside their differences for the betterment of the young country.  <br />If you enjoy history or politics or both, Hamilton by Ron Chernow is a book to read.	2004-05-09
US	39291966	RUC3OIB9ATO6V	073820563X	353562465	Nader: Crusader, Spoiler, Icon	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Muckraker can't stop raking the mud	The intelligent, take no prisoners, crusader of consumer rights is featured in Justin Martin's new book, Nader: Crusader, Icon Spoiler. Martin is also the author of Greenspan: the Man Behind the Money.  Overall, Nader: Crusader, Icon Spoiler, 288 pages, reads well and is organized, but suffers from what appears to be some author-induced opinions that detract from the book's authenticity. <br />Still, the book is an interesting story about a guy who never gives up, made life a little safer on the highways, but doesn't know how to stop when he's ahead. As Martin points out by quoting Teddy Roosevelt, muckrakers are an important part of society, but must know when to stop raking the muck. Nader, according to Martin and other accounts, just doesn't know when to stop stirring up the muck. <br />Martin brings us through Nader's early life in Connecticut, his college and law school days at Princeton and Harvard and then his life struggle against for profit corporations. Ultimately the theme of Nader's life, as described by Martin, is essentially a life long vendetta against the corporation. In the early days of Nader's career, as told by Martin, Nader had the issues behind him. Auto safety, for instance, was an important issue which Nader championed with much success. In the later years, however, Nader picked fight after fight, including a fight with President Jimmy Carter, according to Martin. This fight just seemed so unnecessary, according to Martin. This experience highlighted by Martin brings out the defensive, never satisfied, approach Nader always gives to his project. Nader is more worried about looking like a compromiser than in getting a good result, according to Martin and this comes out in this episode.<br />The political quotes that Martin chooses in the Nader biography are fun to read, but some of Martin's chosen quotes to describe a point he wants to make seem unnecessarily targeted to the more liberal audience likely to read this book and, in my view, takeaway from the author's credibility. <br />For instance, Martin seems to take some unnecessary pot shots at Donald Rumsfeld and George Bush. Martin, in describing how Nader disliked the typical Ivy Leaguer, chooses this quote by Nader: \\"At Princeton, the athlete was king... Donald Rumsfeld was on the wrestling team and he would swagger around campus.\\" Another unnecessary quote was when Martin is describing how hard working the Nader workers were; Martin chooses to insert a quote by one of Nader's guys from Yale who attended at the same time as our current President, \\"When I [referring to the Nader worker] was studying..., Bush was getting drunk at the frat house across the street.\\" These quotes appear to add little more than some cheap pot shot humor that should not be used in a serious biography. <br />In any event, other than these unnecessary quips, the book is an interesting overview of Ralph Nader.	2003-12-29
US	39291966	R1NNQ5JBDXJ9PA	0312276982	552272371	The Jekyl Island Club	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Don't Miss This One	The Jekyl Island Club was my first exposure to Monahan and probably not my last.  Monahan's book, set in the late 18oo's pits a crafty, columbo-like cop against an overconfident crew of money men to solve a murder on Jekyl Island. This is a page-turning &quot;historical murder mystery&quot; you shouldn't miss.	2003-11-21
US	39291966	R1AVNXM4E596IY	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The inventor who continued to re-invent himself	For those who enjoy history, particularly the American Revolutionary period, Benjamin Franklin: An American Life, is an enjoyable and spirited review of a truly remarkable man.  You learn about Franklin in American History class, but Isaacson picks out the actions that truly define Franklin's character and the times in a great story of one of the world's greatest inventors. The most telling, from my point of view, was how Franklin, as told by Isaacson, continually re-invented and refined his role in society. <br />Isaacson's helps us understand Franklin's early decisions that later define him as true leader of the American revolution.  Franklin's self-taught and can do attitude come alive as Isaacson describes Franklin's career as a printer.  Even in Franklin's early career, Isaacson shows the reader how versitile Franklin is in not only his capacity to understand business, but his understanding of human nature and the politics of the time. These skills, elucidated in Franklin's later role as part of the American team sent to France, come alive again as Franklin works with a somewhat gruff partner in John Adams to bring along French support of the American war effort against England. Isaacson tells these historical events as if he was standing unnoticed behind our two French ministers of the American revolution.<br />These thoughts about the book only begin to describe the story of Franklin by Isaacson.  If you enjoy history, the American Revolution, science or just Ben Franklin, you will love this book.	2003-11-11
US	39291966	RUZ62Q1JDBL7H	0374281750	396161457	The Equity Culture: The Story of the Global Stock Market	Books	4	3	3	N	N	making sense out of irrational human behavior	The Equity Culture: The Story of the Global Stock Market<br />By B. Mark Smith<br />Publisher: Farrar Straus & Giroux; 1st edition, Hardcover (August 2003)<br />B. Mark Smith gives the reader a history and economics refresher in the Equity Culture: the Story of the Global Stock Market. The book, 352 pages, is not hard to read and provides an interesting historical overview of the equity markets.  Smith, a former stock trader with FS/Boston and Goldman Sach, is also the author of Toward Rational Exuberance: the Evolution of the Modern Stock Market.<br />In the Equity Culture, Smith traces equity market activity from the Mississippi Company in the 18th Century to the more academic and sophisticated computer models of today.  Through it all, Smith shows the reader that while times may change, human behavior around a rising equity market does not. The real thesis of  Smith's book is that equity market bubbles and busts contain three consistent historical trends(1) a new product or development; (2) increased purchasing activity by professional investors in the company or companies selling or providing the new product or development followed by investment by an expanding pool of inexperienced investors; and, (3) easy credit. Each significant downturn in an equity market, from the Romans to the recent technology bust, are preceded by these market elements, according to Smith.<br />The Equity Culture provides an interesting and wide angle view of the seemingly senseless ups and downs of the equity markets. The book is no novel, but Smith makes what most would consider a pretty dry subject an interesting read. For market veterans, the book provides good perspective; for market rookies a good lessen:  look out!!	2003-10-21
US	39291966	R363OV0XX2QB9W	0553712926	741344123	The Master of the Senate (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 3)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The ruthless power broker	Before I begin, I must admit I am a Robert Caro fan.  I was hooked after I read his work on Robert Moses, the Power Broker. This is my third Caro work (second on Johnson) and, in age comes wisdom, so I listened to this one.  Caro's books are extremely well researched and well written, but make for a long read so, before you plunge into this, make sure you set out a block of time or do what I did and listen to it.  Audible.com has a great subscription program which I just joined and listening to books is a great way to enjoy more reading then time really allows.    <br />If you enjoy politics, you will enjoy the detail provided and I would recommend reading this one.  In the Master of the Senate, Caro takes the reader (or listener in my case) through Johnsons' careful, calculating cultivation of Rayburn, Russell and Roosevelt to establish his roots for later advancement to power in the Senate.  After convincing the older leadership of the three branches of government that he viewed them each like a mentor/father, according to Caro, Johnson goes to work to increase his power.  <br />Caro takes the reader through little events that show just how ruthless Johnson was in obtaining power. Caro tells us how Johnson, for example, would corner other Senators and, if he couldn't persuade him with reason, how he would bully the individual into seeing Johnson's way.<br />The most interesting part of the book, however, is how Johnson was able to broker a deal between the strong sothern Senate block and the northern liberal block on civil rights.  Given Johnson's 20 year recod of voting against civil rights and his ruthless attitude toward winning at all costs, Johnson's civil rights battle was clearly a political play at a time when pressure was mounting in the United States for action.  Johnson's early cultivation of Russell was really the linchpin to his success on this issue.  Russell, a staunch and stong advocate against civil rights was convinced, by his trustworthy &quot;son&quot;, this was the right thing to do.<br />The way Caro leads the reader up to this ultimate deal is really interesting and a fascinating work on political science in American history.  I give it a four only because it is so long, not because it is less than a great read.	2003-07-26
US	39291966	R3PCBEA7RQ3SO8	9501508358	289467996	Napoleon (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great read if you are interested  in Napoleon	This biography keeps the reader's interest.  While I remember little about Napoleon from high school history class, this book highlights Napoleon in an interesting way. Cronin writes well and picks out enough information to give you a good overview of Napoleon.  <br />Easily, a biography on Napoleon can run volumes and they do.  Cronin, however, presents Napoleon's early days on Corsica, his French military school days, his significant battles in Italy and Egypt, his reign in France, his march on Russia, his exile to Elba, his return to France and his final bannashment to the Island of St Helena, in an easy going manner.      <br />According to Cronin, Napoleon is either loved or hated by biographers.   While a reader doesn't need to know this, Cronin provides an analysis at the end of his book on primary sources about Napoleon and which, in his view, are credible.  Based on this, Cronin appears to present a balanced view of Napoleon.	2003-06-22
US	39291966	R8PICBRD2E2EB	0394480767	800538326	The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York	Books	5	2	2	N	N	How unlimited power works	Robert Moses, in this well written biography by Caro, was more powerful than the elected officials he served. Beholden only to his first and only mentor, Governor Al Smith, Moses, as told by Caro, became an unrelenting centralized power house in the administration of public works in both New York City and State government. <br />Caro brings Moses to life in this long, but enjoyable biography. Moses' intelligence, vision and bigatory are all brought out in Caro's the Power Broker. The master and ruler of the parks in New York, the great builder of bridges, roadways and beaches and the author of the fourth arm of government (the public authority), Moses weilded his power with great strength and little or no accountability. Moses, as told by Caro, changed the face of New York State Government and was literally unstoppable until (in his 70's) he was taken down by Nelson Rockefeller. In the Power Broker, for example, Caro conveys how Franklin D. Roosevelt as President was unable to limit Moses' influence in New York.  Moses imprint on New York is still visible today when you drive on the Northern or Southern State Parkways in Long Island, travel across the various bridges in New York City or drive by the New York Power Authority in Western New York.  In every corner of New York, Moses, through his ability to garner support (even reluctantly by some) of each of the Governors he served, was able to drive the public works agenda in New York for 50 years.  One interesting irony is that Moses did not drive.  <br />The Power Broker is a great work to read if you have any interest in politics generally or New York history in particular.	2003-06-01
US	39291966	R1Y9L5HBLDNAWL	0743507843	646280776	Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis Thomas Jefferson And The Opening Of The American West	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The great western exploration told as only Ambrose can	Undaunted Courage is a must read or listen for anyone interested in exploration and history. As Ambrose highlights, Meriwether Lewis and William Clark made a remearkable journey up the Missouri River to find a \\"direct and practical\\" passage to the Pacific ocean and the western part of America. It is clear Ambrose has  a true understanding of what Lewis and Clark must have experienced during thier two and one hlaf year journey.<br />Doctor, outdoorsman, taxidermist, writer and diplomat, Lewis comes to life in this remarkable journey that Ambrose tells us in Undaunted Courage. Ambrose provides the reader a great flavor for the immensly productive Lewis and Clark expedition. Not only does the pair find a route to the West, but they documented several hundred new species of plants and animals and created, if only for a short period, diplomatic relations with the various Indian tribes along the way. Undaunted Courage is a great title for this amazing trip.<br />Ambrose gives us the post expedition difficulty Lewis goes through. For such a great master of a variety of things, it is hard to understand why Lewis is unable to get his life on track after the expedition with so many great opportunites available to him. Unfortunately, there is no insight provided as to why Lewis is unable to more readily function in the aftermath of the expedition. This was the one piece of the book that left me wondering.<br />For a great trip up the Missouri, read this one and enjoy it.	2003-05-23
US	39291966	R2GWOQSFJOCLTC	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	1	4	30	N	N	Hard to stay with	Cicero was an extremely bright lawyer and great politician. Knowing that our government is founded on much of the wisdom that Cicero left us in his writings, I thought a biography about this man would be interesting. <br />This book is interesting, but doesn't compel you to read on. It is a difficult book to stay with.	2003-05-08
US	39291966	R2GKUM6K92ZCU2	0374177694	243667539	After Jihad: America and the Struggle for Islamic Democracy	Books	5	9	17	N	N	Great book, difficult subject	Noah Feldman in his book After Jihad, America and the Struggle for Islamic Democracy, takes a difficult subject and puts together a readable work. In After Jihad, Feldman establishes a framework for the proposition that Islam and Democracy can co-exist in the same country. While reading this sentence and the dust cover describing the book's contents will likely make most on-lookers think the book is a remedy for sleepless nights, the book is not just about the proposition. In After Jihad, Feldman provides a timely and interesting historical perspective of the Middle East, which assists the reader in understanding how a tragic event like September 11th could have come about. <br />In one sense a reader can come away with the idea that Feldman, a professor of law at New York University, presents an 'ivory tower' approach to how Islam and Democracy can co-exist. In another, a reader can come away with the belief that Feldman obviously has a great depth of knowledge of the subject and, at least, presents a realistic, plausible and defensible structure for this combination of ideas. Given this background, Feldman, who was recently made head of the Constitutional team with the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance ('ORHA') in Iraq, appears uniquely qualified to serve in the effort to reconstruct Iraq into a Democratic regime.<br />Feldman's observation that the need for Islam and Democracy to co-exist is reaching a 'new juncture in the politics of the Muslim world' makes practical sense. The autocrats are aging and are unlikely to be able to translate power to their sons, public reaction to the attack on the World Trade Center and the on-going violence in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Feldman argues, presents a realistic view that Middle East as we know it is changing. In addition, the emergence of democracy in small countries like Bahrain, Feldman posits, makes a practical case for a 'no time like the present position' to see if there is a way to meldthe concepts of Islam and Democracy in the Middle Eastern countries. <br />After highlighting this need, Feldman argues that the idea of Islam and Democracy can co-exist because each concept individually is universal, flexible and simple. Feldman then puts forth why this is true. Democracy is universal because everyone has the right to vote; Islam is universal because it believes God makes the same demands on all people whom he created equal. Democracy is flexible, argues Feldman, because it has shown it is adaptable to a variety of contexts; Islam is flexible because it has maintained it's core beliefs while adapting to a variety of languages and family structures around the world. Democracy is simple because it chooses leaders and makes political decisions on the basis of competition for people's votes; Islam is simple because, according to Feldman, there is no god but God, and Muhammad is his Prophet. <br />One of the difficult questions a reader inevitable will ask is how can a country that promotes one religion be sufficiently inclusionary as required by democracy? Feldman recognizes the difficulty by devoting a chapter outlining that very issue. Feldman concedes that women and non-Muslims would not likely be treated equally in a democratic Islamic State. Feldman, though, looks at this in a practical way, arguing between the lines, that equal recognition under the law would take time. Over time, with equal participation, perhaps, more equal recognition would emerge. Feldman points out that if total equality were the reason to stop this idea, then there would be no democracies because total equality between the sexes is not accomplished anywhere.<br />In all, Feldman puts a dry topic into a readable format to keep the reader awake during this interesting review of the Middle East. After Jihad is not a novelistic read, but is good 235-page review if you have an interest in learning a little more about the Middle East. <br />Thanks to Noah Feldman for putting thiswork together.	2003-04-30
US	39291966	R3PCATJ3S0529F	0736644822	404764953	Morrie: In His Own Words	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Depressingly uplifting	Morrie: In His Own Words is an interesting account of what a man with ALS goes through to mentally keep himself sane.  If you're dying, it is a good way to live the remaining time left and, if you are not facing death, it is good way to live the remaining time left.  Don't expect earth shattering advice, though.  These are simple truths, exposed by a life-long sociologist (turned psychologist in this work).  <br />What it does for those who are not facing death, is give you a real picture of what it could be like in the end, so start livin'.  A good wake up call for anyone who doesn't think well of themselves or their life situation.	2003-04-02
US	39291966	R2V1IOLYKSTV6H	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good advice	Phillips makes it simple by providing a balanced diet and workout for the reader.  The diet is a little over the top (six meals), but it gives a good sense of what you should look for in food.  The routine is nice, both mentally and physically.  After 12 weeks, you find yourself making it part of your day.  The Phillips' mantra is keep with it and don't worry about the past.  Good advice.	2003-03-19
US	39291966	R2KV94RO8DTHZW	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good transcript	I enjoyed the Woodward account of how Bush developed his war on terrorism with his closest advisors. One shortcomming of the book which appeared, but I don't understand, was Woodward's background pro-Bush development. While I don't believe Woodward, a great investigative reporter and the one responsible for bringing out the Watergate scandle, sought to promote Bush in any way, the work seems to convey this.<br />Beyond this, the Woodward account of the war is really a transcript of the war planning. Woodward shows the dynamic between the Vice President and the Secretary of Defense on the one side and Secretary of State on the other with the National Security Advisor as the real sounding board and most influential in the President's war cabinet. According to Woodward, Condi Rice, next to Karen Huges (who has left), appears to be the arbitrator between the factions within the Bush administration's war cabinet. <br />I wouldn't rate this as a great work of art, but a good transcript of how the current White House administration has handled probably one of the most difficult times since Pearl Harbor. The book provides a view of President Bush in action which the news media generally has not portrayed. Woodward, to produce this book, had significant access which confuses me on the unnecessary pro-Bush bent. Even if Woodward presented the information, I think the reader could walk away saying Bush is a leader. <br />Bush, according to Woodward, breaks things down to simple parts to make a decision always keeping in mind he works for the people. Bush, as presented by Woodward, kind-of stikes me as a cross between Truman and Teddy Roosevelt. It is a book worth reading, but don't expect some great wisdom here.	2003-03-19
US	39291966	R1394J8MVZW41I	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	best bet on Turow	Unlike 1L and Burden of Proof, two other books written by Turow, this book has it all.  Adventure with a great twist in the end.  For some who may read this, it might be considerd &quot;justice.&quot; Just like fatal attraction, the affair never ends well.	2003-03-19
US	39291966	R10TEX37UE0IQ4	091434188X	158987886	New York State Government: What It Does, How It Works (Rockefeller Institute Press)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Not your ordinary read	New York State Government: What it does, How it works<BR>By Robert B. Ward<br />Publisher: Rockefeller Institute Press, Albany, New York 12203-1003, 2002 <br />Robert Ward, who has been involved in New York State government for over 20 years, gives us a great road map to what has happened in the Empire State politically and substantively in his book New York State Government: What it does and How it works.    This readable, one volume work gives a great overview of the structure, purpose and implementation of New York's large government on both a legislative, judicial and administrative level.   It is a nice review for those involved in government and a good beginning for those who seek to be in or who are new to government.  Directors of associations directly impacted by government, new legislators and regulators and public policy students will find this a useful start in learning the somewhat complex way in which the Empire State operates and carries out its government mission.<br />As Ward points out, it is the administrative governmental structure, which has grown significantly since the 1970's, that carries out the nuts and bolts of New York State Government.  Ward's premise that \\"the power of an agency executive with a vision, personal drive and the support of elected leadership can make an enormous impact on state government\\" is carried out in his summary of changes in the Department of Motor Vehicles. A State agency most New Yorker's must visit during their lives, Ward, on page 285 of his book, shows how the \\"bureaucratic ineptitude\\" of the way in which licenses and motor vehicle registrations were issued was changed by Governor Cuomo's Department of Motor Vehicles Commissioner, Patricia Adduci.  <BR>The involvement of employees as well as customers combined with focused \\"executive support\\" lead to greatly reduced lines and improved customer service at the Department.   In a more micro way, this example highlights how committed attention and creative thoughtcan change the way the State administers its programs.  This portion of the book also highlights how the Pataki administration continued these reforms through the implementation of several technology-based improvements.  These efforts, at a minimum, have resulted in less waiting time at the DMV, and, in a broader context, prove how effective leadership and commitment can garner positive change in a administratively detailed government structure.  <BR>  <BR>In the end, Ward's book posits, what is the role of state governments?  A great question in a time when state government decision-making is beginning to dissipate.  As Ward points out, the federal government's role in a traditionally state issue--- insurance--- has become more pronounced with the repeal of Glass-Stegal.  The federal government's involvement in the lowering the drinking age and education are significant signs in the reduced role, based on the significant financial needs of state government, states will play in policy making and control of their agenda. In the end, says Ward, voters who care about these issues \\"should recognize federalism matters.\\" In his concluding remarks, Ward gives us a glimpse of his view that, \\"perhaps the only safe prediction is that the balance of power will continue to shift.  Governors, legislators, and elected leaders at the federal level will push and pull to control the policy debate.  Such competition over ideas and political influence will serve all America-as long as an informed citizenry is a full partner in the conversation.\\"    It is difficult to argue with this advice.  <br />For a good, basic understanding of New York State's government, Ward's book, New York State Government: What it does, how it works, is a good reference.	2003-03-14
US	39291966	R16QOTWKOLGOIR	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Great Review of the American Begining	Ellis presents the American Revolution in six &quot;bite size&quot; stories. This structure allows the reader to enjoy American History without wadding through hundreds of pages of text. The six short stories presented by Ellis don't make conclusions, but present, in very simple terms, what occurred and presents options as to how the event may be interpreted. A real easy read, especially if you are an American History buff, and a great review on the American Revolution.<br />My favorite story was where Ellis presents the dinner meeting between Jefferson, Madison and Hamiliton on the subject of the federal assumption of the states' debt. Here, Ellis tells us why the Capitol is in Washington, D.C and not Philidelphia. Without elaboration, it was a deal struck between the two Virginians, Jefferson and Madison, in exchange for assumption of states' debts by the larger federal government. Assumption of state debt assisted the northern colonies (Hamilton was from New York and a great financial mind) who had larger debt; moving the Capitol from the north to the new District of Columbia allowed Virgina to have closer access to the nation's Capitol (travel was difficult in these times and, right after the war, there was concern with having a government so far away) as well as an economic boost. The story is conveyed effortlessly and well and leaves the reader feeling as though he or she were sitting like a fly on the wall listening to these intellectual giants discuss this deal. <br />I would recommend this book strongly and, read together with John Adams by David McCullough, providers a great backround in the American Revolution. If the reader decides to read only one of these, the Founding Fathers is really a short and great priemer on the American Revolution. Thanks go to Ellis for providing such a good read on the American Revolution.	2003-03-03
US	39291966	R2FBAMIHPC8XH1	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	3	7	10	N	N	great information; difficult read	Prior to embarking on Jenkins' biography of Churchill, I knew little about the most accomplished Prime Minsiter in the 20th Century.  After reading this enormous work, I believe I have a better understanding of this great 20th Centruy figure, but believe I may have been better served by reading a different biography on Churchill; I just found Manchester's work more daunting.<br />The trouble with the book, in my opinion, was not the depth and knowledge that Jenkins shows on Churchill, but the writing style in which it is presented.  What comes out in this 900 page (soft cover)work is that you need to have a better understanding of the parlimentary system in Britan to get the full flavor of Jenkins' insider information.  While Jenkins provides some parlimentary terms in the begining of the book, they fall far short of the necessary tools to enjoy this work to its fullest extent.  Further, I found myself reading Jenkins' Churchill alongside a dictionary, looking up several words in a chapter.  I enjoy learning new words I may use someday, but some of the English did not even appear in my dictionary!!<br />Despite this, it was an enjoyable, one volume work on an extremely brilliant and fearless leader who I admire for his courage and tenancity.  In WWII, Churchill, was, without question, based on Jenkins' work as well as other accounts, the primary reason Europe did not fall to Hitler and Mussolini.  When the chips were down (particularly in those difficult, almost amazingly depressing, \\"twenty-one days in May\\"), it was amazing, based on Jenkins' stoy, how Churchill could keep so upbeat and positive that things would ultimatley turn out well.        <br />Churchill's relationship with Stalin and Roosevelt was, I thought, well presented in Jenkins' book.  What you take from Jenkins' work is that Winston started the fight and was (despite his continued and unfettered persistence) relegated to the \\"back benches\\"(a Palimentary term used throughtout the book) of the \\"big boys\\" when the United States and Russia began to reach the pinnical of their power in WWII.  Again, Churchill, though his persistent and never give up attitiude,  keeps Britan \\"on the map\\" so to speak in the talks in Malta and Yalta.  Jenkins' intimates Churchills' attempts to go with pre-meetings in these sessions with Roosevelt and/or Stalin, but he is rebuffed as the two real superpowers do not want to begin to agress against one-another.  This gives insight into the diplomatic prowes of both Stalin and Roosevelt in the efforts to solve the European crises.<br />After reading this, I find myself better educated, but worn out.	2003-03-03
US	39291966	R3735B2AR7KON8	0671869205	680068737	Truman	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great man, difficult times	McCullough presents his subjects in a way no other biography has done.  He makes the subject jump out at you as if he were sitting right next to you.  Granted, McCulough has had some great material with Adams and Truman, but the readability of a McCullough is just amazaing.<br />On this trek through time, I used, for the first time, a book  on CD.  MCullough was the narrator and, like his writing, he is a great narrator.  I bought the CD on my way home from New York City, a two and one half hour trip to my home, and found myself driving around my neighborhood to finish the CD's.<br />McCullough presents this simple, but powerful man in a way I have not seen before.  Truman, based on McCullough's book, keeps his independent, straightforward attitude during the ending of the most difficult time this country has faced so far, WWII.  Truman, faced with the decision to drop the atomic bomb, is a man who can, according to McCullough, make a decision and move on.  <br />According to McCullough, Truman does this on both personal and public occassions.  With Bess, Truman is beside himself with wanting to marry her.  According to McCullogh, he wrties to her and seeks an answer-- I am sure this happens to all those who date today.  Bess rejects him, he moves on.  Ultimately, Bess sees in Harry a truly great and independent man, but, based on the book, was being pulled in another direction by her mother who didn't believe Harry was good enough for her Bess, even when he was President in an account highlighted by McCullough.<br />In his public affairs, Truman was straightforward as well.  WIth Mcarther, according to McCullough, Trumnan decided that the man who was defying the orders of the Commander-n-Chief, deserved a face to face meeting about what the United States was going to do in Korea.  Just prior to his trip, according to McCullough, Truman says to his (cousin, I believe), he is going to \\"meet with God.\\"  How's that for straightforward! But, my point is that Harry was ordinary and told it like it was and McCullough brings this out so well.<br />For those of you interested, but short on time, like me with three kids, a law practice and an occassional chore around the compound, the books on CD are a great way to \\"read.\\"  This was my first, but probably not my last.  I would suggest to you, though, that you have to pay attention to the road even if your \\"hands are free.\\"	2003-03-03
US	39291966	R3CNIAEFH8W2SI	1562924885	564336141	The Heart of a Leader	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Good Advice	I purchased the e-book of &quot;Heart of a Leader.&quot;  The book is chock full of great tips for a variety of situations with the justification for each tip.  It is an excellent reference for any supervisor or manager.	2002-12-06
US	39291966	R1ZKJXTPMFAPYH	0689851928	942861036	America : A Patriotic Primer	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Early Learners get a jump on American History	I purchased this book for my daughters and have enjoyed reviewing history as told through this book by Lynn Cheney.  The book is well thought out and kids (at least mine anyway) love the pictures and stories. <br />I recommend this children's book highly. The book is a good one to have in the school library-- I sent a copy to a local school.   <br />Thanks go to Lynn Cheney for putting this together for us.	2002-11-24
US	39291966	R3V1VZIKGJE7GZ	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Political Engineer	In this second volume on Roosevelt, Morris outlines for us \\"Teddy\\" Roosevelt's Presidency. In it, we see a strong and determined individual with little or no fear. (The bear hunts and the African escapades show the no fear part). <br />The novilistic appraoch taken by Morris helps get through the 555 pages of text and has the reader looking for more. From his domestic challenges in Pennsylvania with the coal miner's strike to the trust busting on wall street to his international successes with the settlement of the Japaneese/Russian war and the building of the Panama Canal, Roosevelt's Presidency, from Morris' work, is brought to life. The book shows us that TR understands how to produce a desired result in often difficult political climates.<br />Domestically, the coal miners strike, as told by Morris, melds well with Roosevelt's efforts to bust the trusts. In 1902, coal miners in Pennsylvania, who experienced difficult and dangerous conditions for little pay, had little or no financial means to fight the larger financial interests that owned the mines and paid their wages. These working men, however, figued out that they possed two things to change their condition: will and a nation dependednt on coal to heat their homes. The miners struck and Roosevelt, not one to step into state affairs lightly, heard their plea (and the political plea of the nation's homeowners) to prevent a national concern in the winter of 1902. (p.s. I am sure it wasn't lost on the coal miners that TR was a New Yorker) As Morris outlines the event, he shows the effort that Roosevelt put to all his tasks, \\"speak softly and carry a big stick.\\" Unlike his trust busting efforts, TR had to speak softly to settle this difficult situation.<br />Internationally, the settlement of the Japaneese/Russinan war with TR as the unknown intermediary, as told by Morris, is an example of TR's cajoling (some would say decitful) ability to get things done. Quitely working behind the scenes, as told by Morris, TR comes to life as the creative problem solver of international disputes, protecting American interests from broader difficulties in the early 1900's. <br />As outlined by Morris so well, TR was a cajoling individual who presumably believed that the ends justified the means, but he had unbreakable will and strong character as highlighted by this funny tidbit that Morris tells in Chapter 31. TR's youngest son, Quentin (or \\"Q\\") was playing war with Howard Taft's son, \\"Taffy\\" (\\"T\\"). To win the game, either \\"Q\\" or \\"T\\" had to possess the flag for three minutes. \\"T\\" put \\"Q\\" in quite a spot by using a garden hose to spray him to take control of the game. \\"Q\\", thinking quickly and creatively as his father would, obtained a fire ax and chooped the hose into pieces. Before a winner could be declared, TR came racing out of the White House in anger and this short exchange ensued, according to Morris:<br />TR. ...come here with your incriminating hatchet! In the heat of battle, many acts, which may not be countenanced at other times, may be excusable-- ...you understand that boys? <br />Q. Sure. You mean that's the reason why I did it? I did it, because something had to be done immejitly- [Q, at this time, was 10 years of age, according to Morris]<br />TR. That's exactly it! The point is always to do something quickly, becasue if you don't, the other will follow.<br />You may be wrong -- you were here-- but you have, at least, initiated action. When the action is wrong, you must admit it, and correct it by some further action--<br />Q. (looking at the severed hose) I don't see how this can be corrected. <br />TR. Only by an entirely new garden hose. It was Government property, still is, but also, is no longer. You cannot imagine the difficulties involved, and the things required to be done, in order to replace it. It will even cost money, part of which I am earning--or was earning, when interupted by a despatch regarding the progress of this war, and left hurriedly for the field--<br />Q. Well, of course, you're right; but we've learned our lesson, you know--<br />TR. We? Don't you mean youself? and what have you learned?<br />Q. Not to cut up garden hoses.<br />TR. And not to use fire axes on anything but a fire--<br />Q. ...We're not so likely to have a fire.<br />TR. Not with all this water around! You escape, Quentin, only because of extenuating circumstances arising out of the heat of battle.<br />TR adminishes his son, recognizes it is his obligation to pay for the destroyed government property and, at the same time, compliments his son for being so resourceful. Speaking softly, but like a parent should, carrying a big stick, he sends a good message to his 10 year old son while he is in the midst of running the United States. A good read about a very intersting American President.	2002-11-20
US	39291966	R2YK3GU04SU02G	0743223136	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Adams, the forgotton patriot	McCullough exposes the American Revolution like never before in this inside look at the life of John Adams.  Adams had his faults, but, according to McCullough, was the real fire behind Jefferson's move toward independence.  The relationship between Abigail, John and Thomas Jefferson, highlighted throughtout this book, was well done and is an excellent way to review the American Revolution.  For as much as Adams is  &quot;black and white,&quot; according to historical materials reviewed by McCullough, Jefferson was more in the &quot;grey&quot; area.  The American Revolution, however, could not have been successful without Adams, and, of course, Jefferson, but the true unknown story of Adams comes out in this book.  Jefferson has received a lot of praise, as he should,  but this book finally gives Adams his due. <br />A good example of how Adams was a true patriot was one of his several trips to France to obtain financial assistance for the colonists' war effort. To start, a trip across the Atlantic in the 1700's was, without elaboration, a difficult journey. On this particular trip, the ship Adams and his sons, Thomas and Charles, were traveling in sprung a leak.  At his command, Adams and his boys bailed the water in their trek across the Atlantic.  As they neared their destination, the ship sprung another leak which proved to be too dificult to overcome, requiring the ship to land in Spain.  Here, Adams was presented with two choices: go over the mountains of Spain to get to France or wait for the ship to be fixed and sail up to France (as a side note, the dignitaries of France disliked Adams, making the trek, I am sure, distasteful). Time wise, Adams determined that walking over the mountains of Spain with his two sons would be the quicker and more effective route to reach France in a timely fashion to further the war effort.  This choice shows Adams' character and resolve when he put his mind on something. Jefferson would never have made this decsion nor would he have traveled across the Atlantic in the first place.  <br />However, the story is that Adams and Jefferson were different which made the Revolution possible.  Without either of them, it is hard to imagine that the the Revolution would have been successful. But, finally, in this book, Adams gets significant credit for his amazing efforts to bring independence to America.  <br />This book is a great work and, read with Joseph Ellis' Founding Brothers, is an excellent way to enjoy the amazing work of our founding fathers.	2002-11-12
