US	39353166	R1WL7M0RSSMUHY	0395744504	901064071	Webster's II New Riverside Desk Dictionary: for Home, School, Office	Books	3	3	4	N	N	It's for the office, NOT the classroom.	I have found this dictionary to be of little use to me. Simple words like &quot;Decadal&quot; and a host of other words students' would search for are NOT in this book. Though the dictionary serves okay as a desk reference dictionary for most professionals, it will not work well for backpack-toting college and university students.	2003-10-06
US	39353166	R34TD0DOJ93O60	0801487250	268159201	Akhenaten and the Religion of Light: Die Religion des Lichtes	Books	4	25	30	N	N	The Pharoah Exohertics Love to Hate	\\"For the first time in history, an attempt was made to explain the entire natural and human world on the basis of a SINGLE principle. Like Einstein, Ahkenaten made light the absolute reference point, and it is astonishing how clearly and consistently he pursued this concept in the 14th century B.C.E., making him in fact the first MODERN human being.\\" (p. 125)<br />Akhenaten's revolutionary change from polytheism to monotheistic belief in only one god helped unify Egypt.<br />The subjective controversy that plagues the history of Akhenaten is an anticipative backlash from exoheretics to the academic practice of historiography. When emotional superfluous definitions to the meaning of heresy are discarded, it becomes obvious (for the right reasons) that Akhenaten was indeed a heretic. As a dissenter from orthodox religious beliefs, he was, by definition, a \\"heretic king\\".<br />Hornung's book delves into Akhenaten's radical dissent from Egypt's traditional polytheism, and his establishment of the world's first instance of monotheism. The belief was in Aten, whom many mistakenly believe was depicted by the solar disk. This book makes it clear that Aten was actually not the sun disk, but rather the LIGHT that is in the sun and which, radiating from it, calls the world to life and keeps it alive. It was no more or less an icon than Judaism's Star of David, or Christianity's Cross of Jesus, or Islam's calligraphic symbol. Early text of a boundary stelae reads, \\"sculptors do not know him.\\"<br />The parallels Hornung draws between today's 3 major monotheistic religions and Akhenaten's precedent are many and presented in clear detail. But the author is careful to emphasize that the temporal interval is too great to infer a DIRECT influence from the Amarna Period on the monotheism of the Hebrew Bible over half a millennium later.<br />Hornung's book is full of interesting details, such as Egypt's use of swine for street-side waste removal, the use of a bread and beer barter system pre-dating coinage, descriptions of Amarna-Period home construction techniques for efficient indoor climate control, the first-time use of the Hyksos-introduced war chariot for peacetime transportation by the Pharoah, the emergence of a new expressionistic art form in place of traditional static deptictions, the rise of new forms of architecture, the increased use of flower offerings in place of animal sacrifices, the meaning and mutation of Akehnaten's name, and much more.<br />In regard to the new impressionistic art form of the Amarna Period, Hornung points out that Akhenaten's supposed \\"sickly\\" depiction in sculpture and painting, with his feminine hips, pot belly, swollen lips and chin, receding forehead, elongated neck and crown can be understood by comp0aring it with schools of modern art that deal freely with the human form. In his sub-chapter on \\"The Grotesque Pharoah\\", Hornung eloquently dispels emotional assumptions that the Pharoah had a \\"sick ugliness and nervous decadence\\" about him. Akhenaten's supposed \\"repulsive ugliness\\" is a result of opinion towards a new impressionistic art form and not a logical analysis of the Pharaoh himself. Hornung explains the motive behind this new art form and the rules that define it.<br />Hornung concludes his book with an analyses of why monotheism failed to catch on after Akhenaten's death. Among them, the radical departure his new religion had with comfortable traditional beliefs of the afterlife, the fact he left no male heir to the throne, and the iconoclasm which in the mind of Egyptians in particular cases meant their own consignment to oblivion, and other things to name a few. Though Akhenaten's monotheism lingered on into Tutankamon's 3rd regnal year, it was simply too radical a departure from the norm given the period's socioeconomic status. In this sense, it was a religion ahead of its time.<br />My only point of contention with this book is the brief chapter titled, \\"Dark Years\\". It is a chapter that deals with Akhenaten's relationship with the mysterious Kiya, the supposed disappearance of Nefertiti, the Dakhamanzu affair, and Akhenaten's marriage to his older daughters to elevate their status in lieu of no male heir to his throne. Though the author clearly focuses on Akhenaten's religion of light, I would have enjoyed reading more into Akhenaten's personal life in these mysterious later years: in context and without slant as other authors have done. But given the author's expressed intent and the title of the book, the lack of this additional information does not degrade the quality of this book as a positive contribution to Egyptian historiography.	2003-07-02
US	39353166	RVPG2KM6XQBW2	080613108X	710480748	Canaanites (Peoples of the Past, 2)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Very Interesting to Read!	The book begins with coverage of Canaanite beginnings in the Neolithic and Chalcolithic Periods (8500-3300 bce) and continues through the Late Iron Age (900-539 bce). It does conclude with a synopsis of Canaanite connections to Phoenicians subsequent Carthaginian ties concluding with the close of the third Punic War. The bulk of the detail of Canaanite culture, however, is provided for the periods between 8500 bce and 539 bce. <br />The author (Jonathan N. Tubb)has directed the British Museum's excavations at Tell es-Sa'idiyeh in present-day Jordan since 1985 and is curator of Syria-Palestine within the Western Asiatic Department of the British Museum.<br />Tubb provides easy-to-read details of ancient international trading systems between the Canaanites and other culture groups from the Egyptians and Mycenaeans to Indus River Valley peoples. Though based primarily on archeological evidence to infer Canaanite culture habits, the book also objectively takes into account many historically accurate aspects from written records both Biblical and secular.<br />Extra-cultural influences upon the Canaanites are inferred through changing burial techniques (particularly Canaanite shaft tombs), architecture, and to a lesser extent, pottery styles. Evidence from archeological sites in Persia and Egypt show how widespread trade was even at such an early time in ancient history.<br />Pieces of the archeological puzzle are fit together with historical written records to show when and where new culture groups began to settle in the region and what eventually became of the Canaanites. The power vacuum left after the fall of the Egyptian empire allowed for expansion of new groups such as the Sea Peoples from southwestern Anatolia and the Aegean that settled in the Gaza area (of whom included the Philistines), and the Hebrews who eventually established the Kingdom of Israel around the Jordan River in Judea and Samaria. The author posits that the Israelites were in fact a sub-set of Canaanite culture and many parallels are drawn in the book on this point.<br />I found the book to be very informative and easy to follow. There are both color and black and white photos of Canaanite artifacts and sites in the book that really help to bring about a better understanding of the text you read. A very informative and enjoyable book!	2003-05-08
US	39353166	R1TWT7Z01EWI0G	0312420986	249764029	The Yellow Wind: With a New Afterword by the Author	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Great Contribution to Historiography	An excellent read, and certainly the least biased book on the subject I've ever read. I was introduced to this book while reading a passage in THE OTHER ISRAEL written by Assaf Oron, a Sergeant Major in the Israeli Defense Force Reserves. Assaf is one of the reservists who has refused to serve in the occupied territories after years of serving there.<br />In THE OTHER ISRAEL, Assaf wrote, &quot;A copy of THE YELLOW WIND..., which had just come out, crossed my path. I read it, and suddenly it hit me. I finally understood what I had done over there [in the occupied territories]. What I had BEEN over there.&quot;<br />This powerful passage taken in context moved me to buy and read the book that moved a soldier to completely change his outlook on the conflict, and I am so fortunate I did.<br />Grossman's book is written from a uniquely humanist point of view in regard to what life is like for both Palestinians and Israeli citizens since 1967. <br />He spent 7 weeks in the occupied territories, both in the camps and in the settlements to make a genuine attempt to see the immediate world around him through the Palestinian and Gush Emunim settlers' eyes.<br />This book does not bog down with the intricacies and interpretations of various peace agreements, nor does it bother to delve into the well-known positions held by political leaders on both sides as so many other books on the subject do. Rather, Grossman focusses entirely on those who are most affected by the situation in the region: the people.<br />The book was written originally in 1988, and has an afterward by the author written in April 2002. As Grossman says in his afterward, &quot;Nothing has changed.&quot; This book is as fresh and revealing today as it was 15 years ago. I really gained a lot by reading this book. You will too.	2003-05-06
US	39353166	R3VUFI4UXCNA1V	156584789X	84979174	The Other Israel: Voices of Refusal and Dissent	Books	5	106	119	N	N	Israeli Patriotism Reaches Heroic Levels In This Book	Finally, a book written by insiders in regard to the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Certainly a rare find. This book is actually a compilation of papers/essays/letters written by numerous authors all of Israeli Jewish decent. Noted authors include Uri Avnery who fought in the '48 war and served in the Knesset, Ishai Menuchin who is a Major the Israel Defense Forces reserves, Dr. Yigal Shochat who served as a fighter pilot in the Israeli Air Force during the War of Attrition, as well as numerous well-known and published professors of Political Science, all of whom teach at universities across Israel.<br />The book subverts many myths about Israeli politics in the OPT, but it does not do so in a black and white manner as so many other books do. It is a critical analyses of how certain decisions by those in power are creating a threat not only to Israeli citizens within Israel proper, but also a to Israel's democracy itself. This book criticizes key flaws in Israeli politics in regard to the Palestinian issue and provides solutions in their place; rather than simply attack Israel for all it's worth.<br />In addition to the logical, critical, thought-provoking, Jewish-perspective information this book provides, it also serves to effectively undermine anti-Semitic attitudes towards Israel. Many other books simply criticize Israel without providing alternate solutions given from Israeli Jewish perspectives.. those types of books end up in the hands of some anti-Semites who use the text (most often taken out of context) as metaphorical ammunition. This book is no such source for such idiocy.<br />To criticize one's own government is nothing new, but to do so in such a well-articulated manner, without ostracizing 1000s of years of Jewish culture, and all the while defending democracy while putting your public reputation on the line is not only genius; it's heroic. Read this book!	2003-04-29
US	39353166	R119J6FSSBW3BC	0864424272	33193406	Lonely Planet Jordan and Syria (3rd ed)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not recommended	This book gives the basics on where to stay, where to eat and how to get from point A to point B. The background information on the ancient sites is sparse. For better archeological info (out of a guide book) I'd recommend Mathew Teller's &quot;Jordan-The Rough Guide&quot; over this book. It provides more info on Petra and other ancient sites in Jordan, and focuses all its energies on Jordan alone.<br />Damien Simonis is one of the authors of this LP edition, and I love his other books, so I don't think the reason this book isn't a good choice has to do with the authors... it is simply because it is a small book dedicating itself to two countries... In fact, the Jordan chapter in this book is simply excerpts from the more thorough LP guide, &quot;Jordan&quot;. So if you're going to Jordan and Syria, I'd recommend getting LP Jordan and LP Syria separately... Remember, the whole point of a guide book is simply to help you get the most out of your trip and time... it doesn't mean you can't wander off and find things on your own once your there!! Only a fool would think that way!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R3QDZL6BD2QI84	0743230299	438534770	Kaplan GRE Exam 2003 with CD-ROM (Kaplan GRE Premier Program (W/CD))	Books	5	23	24	N	N	EXCELLENT PREPARATION!! CD sucks though.	The book, its content, its organization and its philosophy are impecable, but the CD-ROM it comes with is completely worthless. It doesn't work well, is slow to load, and doesn't serve much of a purpose in terms of helping you study. Buy the book for the book, not the CD-ROM and you'll be happy and ready to go! Buy this book at least a month or 2 before you plan to take the GRE... in fact, 3 months is best since the vocabulary you'll have to learn will take a few weeks and a hundred flash cards to get down... I HIGHLY recommend this book if you're planning to take the GRE. It's better than anything else out there, and I've bought everything else out there for the GRE and none compare! This book is full of practice tests to see how you're progressing, and loaded with tips and tricks to the GRE... there is definitely a pattern to the GRE and if you know it, you'll do great! This book tells you that pattern and then some! Kaplan is definitely the best! Even though the CD was worthless, the book more than makes up for it... 5 stars anyway!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R73GCKK71F4Q4	1864501928	782686790	Lonely Planet Spain (Spain, 3rd ed)	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Dividing Information... A new chapter in LP books!	I travel a lot, and have found Lonely Planet guides to be a big help... I still do... granted, some of the info is inaccurate (particularly with prices), but every guidebook provides a caveat at its beginning to warn readers of unstable prices... generally the inaccuracies never amount to more a pitance. <br />I found the LP Spain book to be more useful than the Let's Go! Spain guidebook as the LP book had more background information, more listings for places to stay and more maps with better detail... unfortunately, as one of the other reviewers mentioned, this book and many of their other guide books are starting to refer you to other LP mini guides... they used to throw everything you needed between those covers, but these days you almost have to carry a small library around with you to get what a early 90s LP book would give you. Still better than Let's Go!, but for how long?...	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R1T8O82Q99U2SP	0135655323	612629582	Applied Principles of Hydrology (3rd Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good for beginners but...	For an introduction to hydrology this is a good book, but it's a little too basic and laymen for my tastes. This criticism aside, the information in this book is nevertheless good and adequate to provide you with decent background information in hydrology. <br />If you've had any education in basic meteorology, climatology, oceanography, etc... you won't find this book very useful since it is mostly a recap of 101 courses in the physical sciences, but for the rest of us who haven't had much experience in these fields, this book is not only very informative, but it is a very interesting read... who would've known the molecular structure of water was so unique and life-sustaining?! Alter it even a little and life would be impossible, lakes would freeze from the bottom up instead of the top down... and other weird possibilities! For the beginner, this book is easy to read, avoids math, and provides a relatively strong foundation.<br />I recommend this book the 90% of you who want to learn more about the physical sciences... but for the 10% looking for more details over what they already learned in beginning courses, look for another book since this one will only recap that info.	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R3NKPWQAZZ9HSL	174059276X	58535192	Lonely Planet Belize	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Useful and light-weight too!	The information on crossing the border into Guatemala was sparse, but the book provided most of the information I needed to get around. It was clear about how to get from Belize City to just about anywhere else in Belize. This book did forget to mention about 1/2 a dozen cool spots to stay in San Ignacio, and left out a couple local restaurants in the area that are far superior to Sol, but other than that I found the book to be very helpful... besides, if it listed everything, everything would be overrun by us tourists!!<br />I spent most of my time in and around the Mayan ruins, so I didn't need the Cayes' chapters much... the background information the book provides on the Mayan ruins at Xunantunich, Caracol, Cahal Pech and others was good enough to get me started... the rest I found once at the sites from the tourist booths... I also appreciated the fact that the last chapter of this book gives info on Tikal in Guatemala... The ride from the border into Guatemala and on to Tikal was just as the book described... dusty and bumpy and lonely! It does warn of the dangers in and around the Tikal area, but I found these spots to be safe and friendly. Overall, a good guide book with lot's of maps!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R5DY47XMPMN45	0864426941	379831742	Lonely Planet Jordan (Lonely Planet Jordan, 4th ed)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Good Guide Book...but...	Much more informative than LP's &quot;Jordan &amp; Syria&quot; edition. There are a couple of beautiful pictures of Wadi Rum in here, and some decent background info on archeological sites around Jordan. Border crossing politics are made clear, and how to get around is succint. There is quite a bit of information packed into this book, covering everything from little-known facts about Bedouin life to opening/closing times at Karak Castle. The maps in this book are more useful than some other guides I've seen and I would have given this book 5 stars, but I know of another book superior to this one.... It's Matthew Teller's &quot;Jordan-The Rough Guide&quot;....	2003-03-02
US	39353166	RZSELSL8O1AET	0810928965	291664247	Discoveries: Petra: Lost City of the Ancient World (Discoveries Series)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Perfect travel companion...	Even though it lacks the details of bigger books such as Udi Levy's &quot;The Lost Civilization of Petra&quot; (a hardback book), it doesn't mean it lacks details altogether! I found this book to be a great source of information while I was travelling since it is small and stocked full of info on Petra, the Nabateans, and more. <br />This book is loaded with colorful well-photographed pictures and lithographs, and lively-written text which makes reading it a breeze. I fit this book in my back pocket while in Petra and pulled it out to get details on things like the great cisterns and the waterway through the main siq. The section at the end of the book on modern plans to try and preserve Petra's vulnerable sandstone is very interesting... Electophoresis?!?! Wow!<br />The book wraps up everything with a chronology at the end and a list of Nabataea's kings. A very enjoyable and informative read considering its small size... Big things do come in small packages!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R28CTMQA2JEW8	1858287405	445104460	The Rough Guide to Jordan	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Excellent!!	This is more my style of guide book!! Excellent background information on archeological sites around Jordan with (considering it's a guide book) great info on Petra! Everything from the King's Highway to Wadi Rum is covered in thoughtful detail by an author who obviously did his homework. This book really sparks your interest in going to Jordan, and introduces the Bedouin and mainstream Jordanian culture to the reader well. Border crossings, visas, food, health, transportation... it's all in here. LP and Let's Go guides should learn a thing or two from this guide! It doesn't bog itself down with useless information like some other guide books do. Going to Jordan? Get this first!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R37WFV20VRXFS0	0195215850	819379526	Diccionario español/inglés - inglés/español: Oxford Spanish	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The most complete English/Spanish Dictionary out there!	Excellent resource! I highly recommend this dictionary as it appears to have EVERYTHING in it! Even &quot;kitchen&quot; and &quot;sink&quot;... jokes aside, I find this book to be the perfect answer to all my spanish/english definition problems... What makes this dictionary unique is not only its exhaustive collection of words, but also the correspondence writings in its middle. It tells you precisely how to write a correspondence in Spanish (and English) including dates, openings, closings, how to address the envelope and more... It even has examples and instructions (with pictures) of how to create a professional job application, how to write a letter of complaint, how to write a check, how to request a catalog... This dictionary has everything! A must have for language students!! Too bulky to put in your backpack, but not too big for a bookshelf!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R3V67SMZABC9GI	0863152988	426081851	The Lost Civilization of Petra	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Details not found in other books...	Udi Levy covers a lot of ground in this book to include Nabatean sites not within Petra proper as well. The book provides information on the rise of the Nabatean peoples and the subsequent rise of their cities and villages (Petra, of course being the focus). Their religion is analyzed, their agricultural practices looked at in detail, and more. This book even looks at neighboring cultures and provides compare-and-contrast analyses so that the reader can see Nabatean lifestyle in context of the region in which they lived.<br />Levy definitely did his homework before writing this book, and even looks at facts such as how much weight a camel can carry, and then deducing from this the total amount (cost-wise) of goods traders' caravan could carry across southwest Asia at the time (about a million dinars). This kind of attention to detail is most appreciated, and you will find it to be intriguing reading!!<br />The only disappointment, albeit a minor one, was that the conclusion left much to be desired. Levy writes 220 pages of insightful, thoughtful information then concludes with a single paragraph. I feel he could have wrapped it up a bit better than that, but even still, it doesn't detract from the wealth of information his book provides nevertheless.	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R1M65XC1REVD6X	0300047983	200630485	Indian Survival on the California Frontier (Yale Western Americana Series)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	California's True History Isn't Rosy	This book describes the affects of Spanish, Mexican, and American settlement in Indian country on Californian tribes. The author points out differences and similarities between northern, central and southern coastal California Indians and how some tribes were affected and therefore reacted differently to new arrivals from Spain, and the east coast of the blossoming United States.<br />California is unique to all other areas in today's United States in that it was the last area occupied by American settlers. It was also the last place left for fleeing and exiled tribes from the east to go to. This not only caused strife for local Californian tribes, but led to integration of cross-tribal cultures. Native Americans were very unique from not only outsiders, but also to other tribes.<br />This book is clearly written and moves at a consistent pace because every sentence is pertinent to California's amazing history!<br />Sutter's treatment of and plan for Native Americans is something so-called \\"historians\\" at Sutter's Mill should learn about before they tout him as some kind of heroic frontiersman. Rape, murder, suicide, disease, corrupted politics, vigilantism, paradoxical alliances between tribes and \\"White\\" men... and much more are all in here! I couldn't put this book down! Though it is a history book (of sorts), it reads like a dramatic murder-mystery book... only difference is is that this is non-fiction!! I never knew California's history was so unique and full of intrigue! You'll never think of California as the surfer-dude, Hollywood, sunny golden state again after reading this book...	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R34IAYV1WPBML0	0156011492	420376164	Depraved and Insulting English	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Funny and, at times.... useful!	Though I wished this book was a little more organized (beyond simple alphabetizing), I still found it most useful. Great vocabulary to have, especially when you want to let someone have a peice of your mind but don't actually want them to hear you... but you kind of do... but don't... you know the situation.. this book is the key to solving that paradox! So the next time that jobberknowle takes 11 items to the 10-items-or-less isle at the grocery store and starts to pay with a check, you'll find yourself speaking to him/her on terms they aren't familiar with!! Ever been around people who spoke a different language than you, and you knew they were saying something about you but you didn't know what? ...now it's time to level the playing field!! This book is written all in fun, and reads like a book even though it is in dictionary format. You'll definitely get a kick out of it. Some words in the book aren't fully detailed enough to understand, and others are downright useless, but overall this book is a fun read... I do think 10 bucks is a bit steep though... buy it used!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	RF0HB7MQILQ5U	0124577504	356861599	Weather and Life: An Introduction to Biometeorology	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Good info, but can you make it through?!?	You'll get unique information you won't find in any other meteorology book simply because this book focuses on biologics and the influence of weather upon biologics... it's basically a sort of boundary layer climatology-type book.<br />This book isn't afraid of Math, and neither should you be if you plan on reading it! Unfortunately, as a science book it must be written as such... and this book has sparked a few of my pet peeves... It refers to Earth as &quot;earth&quot;... Upper-case &quot;E&quot;!! It abuses the word &quot;the&quot; using it ad nauseum throughout the book... everything is a the in this book... It uses the degree symbol when providing temperature data in Kelvin degrees (a big no-no!), it hints at the long out-dated theory of Environmental Determinism (don't let Carl Sauer read this book!), and I attribute the fact the author tends to write with a hint of chauvenism due to the fact that this book was written in late 60s... Overall, the information in the book is interesting to the technical reader, but a bore to the rest of the world... and not well written for a science book. Shop elsewhere!	2003-03-02
US	39353166	R1EBYPE1HZJQU3	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Powerful and Upsetting	One of the most to-the-point books I've read in ages. This book can be read within 45 minutes and not only gives real-life examples of modern propaganda uses and successes, but also gives a brief history of its use in the United States.<br />The details of Gulf War propaganda use reads prophetically... the same exact tactics used in the '91 Gulf War are being used today (2003). It's as if Chomsky sees the news reports before they're produced. The pattern of media control is made starkingly clear to the reader and is sure to upset you.<br />Few books have generated such emotion in me, and for a book this short to have such an effect speaks volumes. Highly recommended!	2003-02-21
US	39353166	R2MY4Q0QD8G1A5	0914513400	638404263	Of Pandas and People: The Central Question of Biological Origins	Books	2	527	624	N	N	Where's the Science in this Book?	This book engages in simple false alternative negative argumentation against evolutionary theory and provides no positive arguments in support of intelligent design. <br />The book opens stating, &quot;...we will present interpretations of the data proposed by those today who hold the two alternative concepts: those with a Darwinian frame of reference, as well as those who adhere to intelligent design.&quot;, yet research scientist George Gilchrist of the University of Washington was able to find only 37 instances of the keyword &quot;intelligent design&quot; in over 6,000 scientific and academic journals worldwide. Of the 37, most were irrelevant dealing with computer software or hardware, architectural or engineering design, advertising art, literature, fertilizer manufacture, or welding technology. Only 7 had anything to do with biology, and of these, 5 were discussions of the debate over using the Pandas textbook by various school boards and 2 were comments on Behe's book in a Christian magazine. <br />There is not a single instance of biological research using intelligent-design theory to explain life's diversity, and though both Davis and Keynon are professional scientists, neither has apparently published anything in the professional literature about their theory.<br />This book is systematically dismantled by Robert T. Pennock in his book, &quot;Tower of Babel&quot; and has been criticized by creationist, Norman L. Geisler, professor of Systematic Theology at Dallas Theological Seminary, because the book &quot;appeas[es our] enemies [by] avoiding the word 'creation' like the plague&quot; and for not clearly distinguishing their view from that of &quot;naturalistic (pantheistic) 'creationsits' who see the creator within the universe.&quot;<br />Pandas is guilty of violating every fallacy of argumentation outlined in chapter six of David Kelley's book, &quot;The Art of Reasoning&quot; ...lessons learned by first-year philosophy students, and amounts to littlemore than vague and ad hoc negative argumentation based on a false dichotomy with frequent hyperbolic congratulatory statements epitomizing delusions of grandeur. <br />Two stars because it makes an excellent example of what not to do when arguing in support of a theory, and makes excellent dissection material for students of the philosophy of science. It clearly illustrates the difference between the religious and scientific attitude: To hold on to belief come what may is a sign of religious virtue. Contrarily, science takes it to be a virtue that one withholds belief in the truth of a proposition until it is supported by the weight of evidence. And there's the basic theme of the book: To believe in Intelligent Design Theory in the absence of good evidence is a matter not of science, but of faith.	2003-02-19
US	39353166	RQ9HTRX3UVH6K	0896086119	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Engaging Perspectives on U.S. Foriegn Policies	This book is packed with information regarding everything from Saddam Hussein to NAFTA. Haiti, Cuba, Laos, the former Soviet bloc states, the EU, Afghanistan, Guatemala, Vietnam, Israel, East Timor... Chomsky seems to touch on everything, but with good reason. He articulates U.S. foriegn policy and its affects on numerous countries around the world, the effects these policies have on governments, citizens, and corporations. <br />Chomsky demonstrates points he tries to convey by breaking down and analyzing past events between the U.S. Federal- and other governments, the effects of their actions on a variety of things, and how these events fit Chomsky's description of why the U.S. chooses the policies it does. His perspectives are thought-provoking.<br />At some points in the book the literature tends to lose its smooth transitions from one point to the next by jumping from one event to an entirely different event. For instance, some pages will make mention of U.S. policies and effects among the former Soviet bloc states, relationships with Israel, and cause and effects in Latin America all on the same page. Though they are all related, it makes for difficult reading at times, especially for the laity.<br />Chomsky does a fine job of referencing his work at the end of the book allowing the reader to research further if s/he so chooses. Though some small parts of the book seem to border Area-51-type conspiracy, Chomsky does an excellent job of backing up his educated perspective. Convincing, thought-provoking, intelligent, and a bit frightening. A great book!	2003-02-19
US	39353166	R3KFAWGFVKPOMU	0767402774	900855422	Readings in the Philosophy of Science: From Positivism to Postmodernism	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Argumentation at Its Best!	This book is organized under 9 sections each containing several papers and excerpts written by well-known philosophers of science. Each section deals with a major theme in the philosophy of science such as the nature of scientific theories, reason vs. faith, some contemporary issues like the philosophy of physics, psychology and biology, and more.<br />What makes this book unique is that each paper (or excerpt) is followed by a paper (or excerpt) supporting an opposing argument to one just presented. The juxtaposition of two texts provides the reader with adequate material with which to ponder. The author's purpose does not appear to give the reader two options from which to choose the &quot;better&quot; argument, for this would be the fallacy of false alternative... nor does the author do this to encourage the reader to find a &quot;happy&quot; compromise between opposing arguments, for this would be utilizing the defeated Socratic dialectic... the purpose is to promote critical thinking in the reader. Analogically speaking, this book is to the reader (philosopher) what weights are to a body builder. It is the food for thought! A well-organized intelligent read I highly recommend!	2003-02-15
US	39353166	R1EIM036WTUMMT	0814756239	285079986	The Seeds of Empire - The American Revolutionary Conquest of the Iroquois	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Wonderful Contribution to Historiography	This book details the events that led up to General Sullivan's scorched-Earth campaign against the Tribes of the Six Nations. The first 6 chapters deal with a \\"White\\" perspective and does not shy from Native American atrocities committed against European settlers on their land. However, the second half of the book puts these events in perspective and details the equally atrocious events carried out against Native Americans.<br />The scorched-Earth campaigns led against the Native Americans is remeniscent of tactics used by ancient armies in southwest Asia. Both points of view are given, but without a doubt the book makes clear who was in the wrong from day one. The title should be a give-away to this fact.<br />The book assumes the reader has a fairly good knowledge of the American Revolutionary War. There are some points in the book where the author makes mention of some individual or incident indirectly related to a current situation assuming the reader is aware of the name or event being referred to and can see the irony or paradox in the current situation in light of the reference made. For readers with strong knowledge in American history, these nuggets will prove most interesting and thoughtful, but to others they will pass without provoking much thought... although they may intrigue the reader to learn more.<br />To the lay reader, fine details in the book will read ad nauseum, but to most they are priceless. These are the only reasons I give the book 4 rather than 5 stars. The author does not hold back when describing some of the gruesome details of battles between two armies, but rest assured that he does attempt to lighten the load by using phrases such as, \\"...dispatched him with a blow from his tomahawk.\\"...<br />I would recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about the wrongs done towards the Iroquois by narrow-minded, racist, land-stealing settlers.	2003-02-14
US	39353166	R6HBAGV2LBQV0	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	2	3	N	N	No Romanticism Here!	The book starts with the latter part of Philip II's life, and continues through to his son's (Alexander's) death. The detail in this book is absolutely breathtaking from battle plans to routes taken and more. This book describes Alexander without bias and does not fall into the common mythification of Alexander as so many other books tend to have done.<br />Hardships of moving an army and its non-combatants (~100,000 people) for over 8 years and 17,000 miles across some of Earth's toughest terrain and environments are described in clever detail... the nomadic tribes encountered, the established citadels sieged, the methods used to siege these structures, the cost of maintaining an army and hired mercenaries, how Alexander dealt with individuals and groups... it's all here!<br />Building a massive mole to Tyre, the battle at the Granicus, Gaugamela, the Jhelum and more! Peter Green also details the complexities of generalship and how Alexander's influence from his boyhood tutor, Aristotle, taught him the importance of bringing scientists, botanists, historiographers, geographers and others on his epic move across Asia and southeast Europe.<br />The battle of the military minds between Alexander, Porus, Memnon of Rhodes and of course, Darius, really peaks one's interest! Read exactly how Alexander was able to defeat an army of 100,000 men with only 47,000 soldiers (a tactic repeated later in history by Marlborro, and more recent generals). <br />The author also takes great pains in separating propaganda and reality in this book so that the reader can understand fully the complexity of Alexander's incredible life.<br />From founding cities in today's Afghanistan to jumping over a citadel wall to take on an army by himself, this book has it all... not bad for someone who couldn't swim!<br />I loved this book, and found myself taking over 100 pages of notes because I was so interested! Highly recommended piece of academic literature.	2003-02-13
US	39353166	R2TIF197EAIV3E	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More than just a story!	By now most have seen the movie... so we have the gist of the story of the men of the Andrea Gail and their friends and family back in Gloucester.<br />Their doomed battle against nature out over the Flemish Cap is described in much more detail than even the graphics of the movie could convey. But what I liked most about this book was the impressive research Sebastian Junger put into this true story!<br />With splendid clarity, he describes the physics behind water wave mechanics from tiny wind-generated capillary waves to powerful towering monsterous walls of green water. He also describes in morbid detail what really happens to the human body when it drowns, and it isn't from getting water in the lungs! <br />The author does all this without getting into difficult scientific jargon that the laity may not appreciate. Many parts of this book read like an exciting field course in oceanography! Junger really takes care to provide the reader with a strong understanding of just how amazing the unification of those 3 storm cells was... the kind of power it generated!<br />A well-written book that I've seen as mandatory reading material for university geomorphology courses because of its finer details!	2003-02-13
US	39353166	R560J94RI6A8J	8772880546	838241364	Excavations at Beidha: 1. The Natufian Encampment at Beidha (JUTLAND ARCH SOCIETY)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Research!	Beidha is an ancient Natufian encampment just outside of Petra, Jordan. I visited the site in 2000, and though it was not much more to look at than a bunch of carefully placed stones, it turns out that what I saw was a small village as old as Jericho dating back some 10,000 years!<br />To cultural geographers, archeologists, anthropologists, and those of us with an &quot;Indiana Jones&quot; spirit about us, this book is very thoughtful and informative. It is complete with tables, graphs, photographs, and illustrations of everything from the stone tools used, to the stratigraphy of the environs at the site.<br />The book is written in 7 chapters, 2 of which are a friendly introduction and a conclusion). I found the second chapter especially interesting as it reconstructs the paleoenvironmental conditions of the area at the time of its occupancy. What is perhaps most incredible is the chance that a primitive type of agriculture may have been employed at a time when agriculture was relatively non-existent.<br />Today the site, indeed, the entire region around Beidha is a desert with minimal life... but when in its prime the area was wrought with a Mediterranean forest that produced acorns, pistachios, wheat and barley.<br />A great book for those seeking the details of a little-known place in the Levant!	2003-02-13
US	39353166	RJ0S0ZIP9NHE4	1566562910	787717444	Remembering Deir Yassin: The Future of Israel and Palestine	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A Well-Balanced Account	The sad story of what happened in Deir Yassin is told through the research of 12 individuals whose papers are joined together here to make this book. It is written in much the same style as \\"Iraq Under Siege\\". <br />The story of the massacre at Deir Yassin lives in infamy, but its history is quickly becoming forgotten as urban development now covers the site... a site that ironically (or not) sits within a stone's throw of the Holocaust Museum, Yad Vashem, in Israel in somber rememberance of the 6 million Jewish innocents that were massacred by Hitler in WWII.<br />Chapter 11, \\"Christianity and the Future of Israeli-Palestinian Relations\\" is one of the best written in the book. All chapters are thought provoking and written with succinct clarity.<br />I especially appreciated this book not only for its candor, but because it maintained an essence of ecumenicalism between Christians, Jews, and Muslims that many other books do not afford. This is a must read for EVERYONE!	2003-02-13
US	39353166	R375UA24RMZLCL	0520071662	342281020	Alexander of Macedon 356-323 B.C.: A Historical Biography	Books	5	7	8	N	N	No Romanticism Here!	The book starts with the latter part of Philip II's life, and continues through to his son's (Alexander's) death. The detail in this book is absolutely breathtaking from battle plans to routes taken and more. This book describes Alexander without bias and does not fall into the common mythification of Alexander as so many other books tend to have done.<br />Hardships of moving an army and its non-combatants (~100,000 people) for over 8 years and 17,000 miles across some of Earth's toughest terrain and environments are described in clever detail... the nomadic tribes encountered, the established citadels sieged, the methods used to siege these structures, the cost of maintaining an army and hired mercenaries, how Alexander dealt with individuals and groups... it's all here!<br />Building a massive mole to Tyre, the battle at the Granicus, Gaugamela, the Jhelum and more! Peter Green also details the complexities of generalship and how Alexander's influence from his boyhood tutor, Aristotle, taught him the importance of bringing scientists, botanists, historiographers, geographers and others on his epic move across Asia and southeast Europe.<br />The battle of the military minds between Alexander, Porus, Memnon of Rhodes and of course, Darius, really peaks one's interest! Read exactly how Alexander was able to defeat an army of 100,000 men with only 47,000 soldiers (a tactic repeated later in history by Marlborro, and more recent generals). <br />The author also takes great pains in separating propaganda and reality in this book so that the reader can understand fully the complexity of Alexander's incredible life.<br />From founding cities in today's Afghanistan to jumping over a citadel wall to take on an army by himself, this book has it all... not bad for someone who couldn't swim!<br />I loved this book, and found myself taking over 100 pages of notes because I was so interested! Highly recommended peice of academic literature.	2003-02-13
US	39353166	ROG2Q45JI9HS9	0745311520	213882901	Open Secrets: Israeli Foreign and Nuclear Policies	Books	5	23	27	N	N	No Democracy in the Middle East	The late Jewish author, Israel Shahak, explains in great detail the interconnections between U.S. and Israeli policies in both the middle east and Latin America and how these policies affect both countries and the world.<br />Consider the current situation with North Korea, Iraq, and Afghanistan... this book is prophetic. This book details why China and North Korea will talk to Israel when negotiating indirectly witht he United States. If ever there was a time to understand the web of communications between countries such as North Korea, Syria, China, Israel, Columbia and others, now is it. I read this book over a year ago, and now come back to write a review because of its renewed importance in light of recent developments (2003).<br />Read about Saddam Hussein's failed attempt to make peace with Israel, and more! Long before 9-11, this book WARNS its readers of the serious terrorist threat that would come out of Afghanistan! Prophetic. A book that details information with such accuracy, makes predictions that come to realization, is certainly a book worthy of information-hungry men and women the world over.<br />Going back and re-reading this book is like a visit with Nostradamus. I HIGHLY recommend this book as it will provide you with a strong understanding of what's behind U.S. moves on Iraq, relative silence towards North Korea and more.	2003-02-13
US	39353166	R3EN5TDTRJ5XYT	1859843778	87716556	The New Intifada: Resisting Israel's Apartheid	Books	5	30	43	N	N	Well-referenced Alternative Viewpoint	This book is actually 20 papers (chapters) written by as many different authors including Jennifer Loewenstein, Robert Fisk, and Edward Said to name a few. These chapters are organized under 4 sections, the first dealing with issues of repression and resistance, the second on media facts and propaganda, the third on refugees and right of return, the last on activism.<br />References are found at the end of most chapters (with the exception of interview transcripts and such). This book makes no qualms about exposing Arafat as an irresponsible leader, and definitely points the finger at the PLO as not having the best interests of the Palestinian people at heart.<br />Politics and money have corrupted the Palestinian leadership, and these points are what make the book altruistic in its interpretation of the conflict. Far from painting a rosey picture of Arafat and his croneys, the book succinctly distinguishes government from the people, and fundamentalists from that population such that no blanketing statements are made for or against either side.<br />The book's purpose is to give a Palestinian point-of-view and does not hide this fact, but it is this openess and frankness that readers will find refreshing. This book makes a great supplement to your further readings on the issue.	2003-02-13
US	39353166	R7SIIO6IIVB1H	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	26	32	N	N	A Taste of What is Out There.	A short read which is simply a set of interviews conducted with Chomsky after the 9-11 tragedy. Obviously this book wasn't meant to provide any details, there is nothing in this book that isn't covered in MUCH greater detail in Chomsky's other works, this book was really rushed to print to provide curious readers (who'll probably search &quot;9-11&quot; as a keyword) with basics that they won't read or hear from mainstream media. If the reader has little background in US foreign policy or mid east politics, then this book might prove worthless in terms of gaining detail, but this book does give the reader some information that can be used as a guide to further research. For example: One might not have previously been aware of certain policies the US has in southwest Asia, this book makes mention of some of these policies, and the reader's focus now turns to finding more about these policies from other sources. Chomsky meant for this book to act as a keyword &lt;META TAG&gt; to attract a larger audience to important issues. The book is short and lacks detail, but has the veritable punchlines to attract the curiosity of the laity. The book is inexpensive and can be read in one sitting easily. So it's okay for curious readers who just want to get the gist of what is rarely (if ever) heard in the mainstream media.	2003-02-12
US	39353166	R325O0P55TEBPJ	0761519645	910224725	God: The Evidence: The Reconciliation of Faith and Reason in a Postsecular World	Books	2	12	25	N	N	Selective and Weak; A Disappointment	This book is full of assumptions and superficial assertions. Chapter one is just a precursor to weak arguments. Martin Rees's book, \\"Just Six Numbers\\" is far better and makes no assumptions about science and scientists in general and allows readers to gain insight without weak rhetoric. If Glynn knew anything about quantum mechanics he wouldn't have to write a rhetorical book defending religion (which isn't being attacked by science). One of numerous flaws in this book comes when Glynn attacks Creationists on pg. 34 to give himself credence, yet only 3 pages earlier he used an old Creationist argument of a junkyard to argue for Creation!...thus completely eliminating any credibility he could have established. His references in the back of the book show he is selective in his sources. Nowhere do I see any scientific papers having been referred to, only references to opinionated books (like his own) which are easy to attack and make a case against. NEWSFLASH! Opinion ISN'T science! Science (especially in quantum mechanics) points to a Creator and never claimed to \\"know everything\\" or claim \\"God is dead\\" as Glynn reports. I challenge him to find any scientific source that makes such claims, and no Glynn, Marx and Freud weren't scientists. Science observes what goes on around us and tries to explain those phenomena as best it can with tentative theories using God-given brain power, it does not (as Glynn mistakenly assumes) set out to disprove God.<BR>This book is terribly disappointing and shows how poor writing can create an issue and polarize it. The struggle isn't between science and religion, it is between uninformed wannabe \\"scientists\\" and good-intentioned but uninformed Christians. This book is just part of that circular argument. Glynn should have risen above such a level.	2003-02-12
US	39353166	R347AP5SUY720W	0896086976	868154879	Iraq Under Siege, Updated Edition: The Deadly Impact of Sanctions and War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Organized, Articulate, Well-Referenced Book	The book is written in 16 easy-to-read chapters organized under 5 Parts (or themes) and an Introduction which provides some background information as to the &quot;roots of the crisis&quot;. With this type of organization the reader will never get lost in the sea of facts. All facts are referenced at the end of each corresponding chapter in order of appearance. This book is an excellent compilation of essays written by 18 different respected authors including Noam Chomsky, Howard Zinn, and John Pilger to name a few. Though the book is a compilation of essays, these essays read congruently, flowing from one to the other so that this book reads like...well, a book! Part I covers the roots of US/UK Policy in Iraq, Part II separates some of the commonly heard myths from the realities in regard to Iraq and Saddam (two words that are not synonymous with each other), Part III gives the reader some heart wrenching real-life stories (documentaries) of life under the sanctions, Part IV provides documentation recording the human, agricultural and some of other impacts of the sanctions as well as some shocking information on Depleted Uranium (DU) weapons, and Part V essentially provides the reader with pertinent information and guidelines for activist response, including how to research and where to go for information. There is a map of Iraq in the beginning of the book listing all the main Shiite towns, centers of Kurdish populations, oil fields, refineries, pipelines and more. There are also 12 quality black and white pictures of people and places which really tie everything together nicely. There is an alphabetical index in the back of the book as well as brief synopses of the authors. I guarantee you will know far more about what is going on in Iraq (and have better insight into why Washington is taking so long in removing Saddam) than most members of the media ever have.	2003-02-12
US	39353166	RW1OR5W851UNG	0745312764	862996109	Jewish Fundamentalism in Israel (Pluto Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	5	63	72	N	N	Very Informative and Honest	\\"We realize that by criticizing Jewish fundamentalism we are criticizing a part of the past that we love. We wish that members of every human grouping would criticize their own past, even before criticizing others. This, we further believe, would lead to a better understanding between human groups and would be followed, perhaps, slowly and hesitantly, by better treatment of minorities.\\" -authors.<br />Far from being anti-Semitic, a label being thrown around carelessly these days which is most unfortunate. Shahak (himself a Jew) takes pains to separate fundamentalists from secular and traditional Jews. He further differentiates between groups under the fundamentalist influence. This book gives the reader a rare look of what happens in rabbinical circles and what is printed in Hebrew press that the rest of the world doesn't get to see. I wish MEMRI would be more altruistic and translate some of the Hebrew press. The major threat is that these groups pose a threat to Israel's democracy, and are major deterents to peace in the region. Without a doubt, Palestinian Muslim fundamentalists are equally to blame, however this book focuses (as the title indicates) solely on Jewish fundamentalism. A very eye-opening book and a bit frightening for lovers of peace and democracy. The complexity of Jewish society and culture is absolutely incredible. This book was clearly written for academics, NOT anti-Semites looking for \\"ammunition\\" with which to spew their hatred. I only wish there was a book written by Muslims that was as open and honest in their criticism of Islamic fundamentalists as this book is of Jewish fundamentalists. One certainly learns that broad generalizations of culture groups is wrong and non-representive. Shahak details the history and development of events leading up to Rabin's assasination, the massacre committed by Baruch Goldstein, and more. The book also details the rise of the Haredim in Israel and how political influence is won and lost in the Knesset. When an orthodox Jewish friend of mine told me how cruel Jews can be to other Jews, I had no idea how serious he was until I read this book. It is saddening to read. An excellent book recommended to those who are reading to learn of another perspective, not for those looking to increase their anti-Semitic hate. The information in this book could easily be taken out of context; the beauty of this book is that it provides everything IN context so that the reader understands the severity of the problem of fundamentalism without drawing the incorrect conclusion that Jews are somehow racist. Truly an incredible read.	2002-06-27
US	39353166	R2EYUQUT6XZG3M	0262661659	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence Against the New Creationism (A Bradford Book)	Books	5	15	23	N	N	The Bible of Logic	By the end of Chapter six, Pennock is beating a dead horse. He systematically subverts the very foundation of Intelligent Design &quot;Theory&quot; without attacking religion or denying the existence of God. Biology professors should read this book if they want to be able to counter seemingly difficult questions from indoctrinated creationist students such as, &quot;Where are the billions of transitional fossils that should be there if evolutionary theory is right?&quot; and &quot;How could organs as complicated as the eye or the ear or the brain of even a tiny bird ever come about by chance or natural processes?&quot;. Pennock ingeniously points out the consistent flaws of Intelligent Design Theory and the tactics used by its adherents in their attempt to circumvent Judge Overton's decision on the issue. While Creationists are busy trying to determine whether or not Adam had a belly button, Pennock is busy illustrating the nature of science and the elegance of evolutionary theory. The Creationists book, &quot;Of Pandas and People&quot; is analyzed and undermined thoroughly, as Pennock explains its dual-model tactic and negative argumentation against evolution. If you've encountered a vocal creationist and were unable to defend against their offensive rhetoric, this book is a must. Creationist absurdities pointed out in this book will give you a good laugh too. Definitely a fun and educational read. Highly recommended!	2002-06-27
US	39353166	R31ZLEMO7EDM0O	0813389593	607292874	As Nomadism Ends: The Israeli Bedouin Of The Negev	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Academic Literature	Considering Bedouin serve in special units in the Israeli army, I hardly believe they are as biased as the Gush Emunim settlers who treat them like animals in the Negev. This book is fair, and concise, written by someone who is very careful to convey the facts. I find it amusing an outsider labels the author of this book an \\"outsider\\" considering the fact that major settlements in the Negev are of outsiders that began with Jewish Zionist settlement in the 1920s and 1930s and was intensified in the 1940s and 1950s. The book, however, is not overly bogged down with the polarization of ethnocentrist antagonism, it does provide the reader with the Bedouin societal evolution under the Ottomans, then the British, and currently under the Israelis since 1948. Avinoam Meir is an academic and professor in the Department of Geography and Environmental Development and The Negev Center for Regional Development at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Beer-Sheva. Hardly an outsider. He has published several papers on Bedouin and certainly knows the subject without romanticizing the Bedouin as other authors tend to do. An excellent read!	2002-06-27
US	39353166	R39T6IY6X6FJVI	0878423621	986067659	Geology Underfoot in Death Valley and Owens Valley	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Thoroughly Intriguing!	The southwest United States is a geomorphologist's dream... There's not a lot of green stuff covering up the beautiful geology! This book details the geologic features of Death and Owens Valley, CA. It gives the geologic history of features while succinctly describing the details of the processes that brought about these features. The Tufa Pinnacles in Searles Valley, the alluvial fans in Death Valley, the interesting history and development of Gower Gulch, the mysterious ascent of desert pavement, the glacial morraines and routes of the Tahoe and Tioga Stade glaciers at Convict Lake, the Mono Craters (Domes), Fossil Falls, the Alabama Hills and more. You'll even get the heebee jeebees when you read about the monstrous explosion of Ubehebe Crater! Certainly one of the most interesting and pleasurable books I've read in ages! Highly recommended for ANYONE who plans a trip to California's awe-inspiring Death Valley and environs! A must have!	2002-06-27
US	39353166	REXO8NJ4MTY79	0374522596	875149572	The Control of Nature	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Man vs. Nature: Mother Nature has more time than we do!	\\"Whenever you try to control nature, you've got one strike against you.\\" pg. 13<br />This book tells 3 informative true stories of man's attempts to control nature. The Mississippi River, a massive lava flow in Iceland, and the incredibly powerful debris flows of the San Gabriel Mountains. <br />The first story describes in vivid detail attempts to control the Mississippi River from taking a new course... Atchafalaya. If the river takes this new route, say goodbye to New Orleans, B.F. Goodrich, E.I. du Pont, Uniroyal, Monsanto, Exxon, Mobil, Texaco, Shell and Union Carbide just to name a few. Four major floods in 10 years and 32 disastrous crevasses in a single spring weren't enough to suggest to the Army Corps of Engineers that levees alone might never be able to handle the job of controlling the river!<br />The second true story involves Heimay, a volcano that dumped enough lava in 1973 alone that would have been enough to envelop New York's entire financial district, with only the tops of the World Trade Center towers sticking out like ski huts! Will pumping 11,500,000 gallons of sea water a day on the flow be enough to save the harbor from being closed off? Find out! Also find out what I mean when I say McPhee decided to \\"pissa a hraunid\\"! :) The ending to this story will surprise you in more way than one!<br />The last story involves the mighty San Gabriel Mountains, with average slopes of 65-70% grade, climbing faster than almost any mountain chain in the world, and dumping 7 tons of regolith each year, that threaten Angelinos (L.A.)! Drought, fire, and flood; The real seasons in Los Angeles, and instead of the occasional storm, we get the occasional Earthquake! Will more than 2,000 miles of underground conduits, concrete-lined open stream channels, and an army of debris basins be enough to stop the beast? If it does it does it at the expense of the beaches! If it doesn't?... It does it at the expense of the beaches anyway! Find out why in this great book!<br/>You'll learn of lot of interesting facts while at the same time get a great story of the battle of all battles! Man against nature!<br />Only problems with the book: There is no such animal as a mudslide. Mud flows! And Earth is not spelled with a lower case and it isn't \\"the Earth\\", its just Earth. You don't say \\"the Mars\\" or \\"the Jupiter\\", so why say \\"the Earth\\"?! My worthless pet peeves... :)	2002-04-10
US	39353166	R1T8PT4254QH0I	0385235690	80320513	Quantum Reality: Beyond the New Physics	Books	5	58	65	N	N	Get ready to sacrifice your convictions to physical laws!	&quot;For if quantumstuff is all there is and you don't understand quantumstuff, your ignorance is complete.&quot; pg. 40<br />This book delves into the realm of accuracy in certainty and certainty in randomness and beyond! Afraid of math? Don't worry, this book does a superb job of explaining the subject in terms a layman can understand. Is probability an optimists way of expressing uncertainty, or is uncertainty really random, or is random just a term to conceal our ignorance? You'll get the answer. Very weird!<br />It explains very succinctly the two most important waveforms in science, sine waves and spherical harmonics. Thought color was an inate attribute? Wrong! Learn the 5-steps to take to find a attribute of a quon using quantum theory! You'll think you're Steven Hawkings after reading this great book! Now I can say with confidence that DNA is to genetic code what a waveform attribute is to cosmic code! What the hell did I just say? You'll know after reading this book! Become a genius (or at least look like one) in a week! <br />Even if you don't like scienctific &quot;stuff&quot;, you'll love this book just for its weirdness! You'll see why possibility squared equals probability! heh heh... You'll also find out if a tree really makes a noise if it falls in a forest when you're not there! :)<br />Wondering about the finer aspects of the photoelectric effect? It's in here. Why does a camera lens look purplish? It's in here too! What is reality? ... :) If you thought Bell's Theorem was weird, you haven't seen nothin' yet! There is nothing as weird as quantum theory. You won't want to believe it, but &quot;quantum theory boldly exposes itself to potential fasification on a thousand diffent fronts. Its record is impressive: quantum theory passes EVERY test we [physicists and philosphers alike] can devise. After over 60 years of play, this theory is still batting a thousand.&quot; pg. 94<br />Buy this book and enjoy! That is... if the book is real!	2002-04-10
US	39353166	R29VE5GJEFVM0G	026261037X	342822761	Abusing Science: The Case Against Creationism	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Great for those who try to demonize evolutionary theory.	\\"Belief may be a regretably unavoidable biological weakness controlled by criticism, but commitment is an outright crime.\\" -Lakatos<br />Creationists seem to acquire only the most tenuous grasp of complex theories in science, then offer their muddled caricatures of important scientific works to as wide an (inexpert) audience as they can reach, skimming, searching for ammunition to attack evolution. This book does a great job at leveling these fruitless attacks on science while at the same time giving the curious reader a good foundation of what evolutionary theory is all about.<br />Creationists standardly make 2 mistakes. They assimilate apparent randomness to irreducible randomness, and they overlook the fact that processes that are irreducibly random may be governed by probabilistic laws. This book provides you with answers. It also explains the nature of science, something few people have taken the time to understand. Fallibility is one of the hallmarks of science, its tentativeness is another, yet few people understand science enough to truly appreciate these qualities.<br />Successful self-defense requires a modest literacy in the language of evolutionary theory, and you'll learn that language in this book. It is an easy read, and very informative. It does not attack religion, it merely provides answers to creationist attacks and asks some questions of its own of Creationism. \\"People who live in Creationist houses should not throw methodological stones.\\" pg. 124<br />I loved this book!	2002-04-10
