US	39352452	R3SCQDNVQNKB82	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	4	12	20	N	N	Dangerous nonsense	I confess I like this book enormously because I happen to agree with Sokal on almost every point.<br /><br />Postmoderns like Derrida invented a new type of creative writing, which neither imparts knowledge nor raises moral questions (as the works of Tolstoy and Dostoevski do) but takes the reader on to a trip.  The reader is expected to come out of this trip dazzled by the verbal fireworks dense with properly misused scientific terminology, but not feeling any more enlightened than at the beginning.  In fact, the reader is supposed to feel more and more confused, approaching the level of the confusion of the author.<br /><br />Since most of us don't read this junk, why whould we care?  The epistemic relativists are much more dangerous.  Like postmodern art, where you find \\"paintings\\" done by randomly spilling two buckets full of paint onto the canvas, this kind of writings will die the natural death it deserves.<br /><br />Postmodernist writings are a new art form, combing New Age mysticism with pseudo-scientific appearances.  Even if it were not mostly in French, it is unlikely any rational thinking individual in the English-speaking world would have been impressed.  I think it's silly to pay them any attention.<br /><br />My main criticism is that Sokal is dignifying the raving psychotics with the attention they don't deserve.  This is why some scientists have refused to participate in evolution vs. creationism debates.  Why give them the attention they don't deserve?  The public is likely to be confused: People have an unfortunate tendency to think that, if there is a controversy, then there must be some truth to both sides.  I can't help feeling that the idiots at the receiving end of Sokal's incisive criticisms are actually relishing the publicity Sokal is giving them.<br /><br />On the whole, the \\"fashionable nonsense\\" comes in two varieties.  There are the self-styled intellecutals (many from France, as this book shows) who dress up their meaningless theories with scientific terminology which they understand poorly at best.  To apply non-Euclidean geometry to psychoanalysis seems to me to - excuse my metaphors - pile dog stool on top of cow dung.  But who really pays attention to these people?  Only those whose need for New Age mysticism is strong enough to be guillible enough to buy into this nonsense.  These folks have a spiritual need they can't quite fulfill with traditional religions (which they see rightly as woefully inadequate) but they are also comforted by the fact that these meaningless wordplays sound scientific because it is so full of scientific terminology.<br /><br />The other variety of fashionable nonsense is much more serious: the notions, started by Kuhn, that there is no objective reality to be known by science, and that scientific discoveries are purely cultural constructions (whatever that means).  I'd like to ask Mr. Kuhn if he would refuse antibiotics because the principles of bacteriology are just a \\"social construction.\\"  If he's prepared to die of TB or some such illness, I'd have more respect for him.  Also, the Earth is round (approximately spherical) and it goes around the Sun whether we like it or not and whether we exist or not.  There is no culture to which these facts can be \\"relative\\" to.  Explain them to an ancient Chinese or a New Kingdom Egyptian, let us say, with sufficient evidence and explanation, and he or she would agree that these are objective facts.  Unfortunately, people like Kuhn do enormous damage to science education.  The intellectuals who can't seem to make themselves comprehensible are in a sense self-limiting in the damage they cause - if only because most people don't know what they're talking about.  By making themselves obscure or impossible to understand, they don't really make a lasting impact (except in those who will always be impressed by almost anything that sounds scientific enough).  But people like Kuhn are comprehensible (more or less), and they have the effect of sowing doubts in the minds of young people contemplating a career in science.<br /><br />One reason why Sokal wrote this book is that he feels that as a liberal he has been betrayed by the left-wing intellectuals who are mainly responsible for this fashionable nonsense.  Right-wing extremists might attack science with junk science like \\"creationism\\" or \\"intelligent design\\" (subjects Sokal does not cover), but it is the leftists who turn to cultural constructionism and relativism as well as \\"mathematical\\" psychoanalysis.  And Sokal, as a self-respecting scientist, rightly sees this as doing real damage to the credibility of the Left.<br /><br />Right now, even more dangerous than epistemic relativists of the Left are the creationists on the radical Right, who correctly see that fashionable epistemic relativism is giving them a chance to suggest \\"another point of view\\" to the \\"point of view called evolution.\\"  Needless to say, evolution is not a point of view but a set of proven scientific principles.  Creationism is about a scientific as \\"non-Euclidean topological chaotic supersymmetric Lacanian psychoanalysis\\" except that the latter isn't trying to pollute the minds of the young.ung people contemplating a career in science.    One reason why Sokal wrote this book is that he feels that as a liberal he has been betrayed by the left-wing intellectuals who are mainly responsible for this fashionable nonsense.  Right-wing extremists might attack science with junk science like \\"creationism\\" or \\"intelligent design\\" (subjects Sokal does not cover), but it is the leftists who turn to cultural constructionism and relativism as well as \\"mathematical\\" psychoanalysis.  And Sokal, as a self-respecting scientist, rightly sees this as doing real damage to the credibility of the Left.    Right now, even more dangerous than epistemic relativists of the Left are the creationists on the radical Right, who correctly see that fashionable epistemic relativism is giving them a chance to suggest \\"another point of view\\" to the \\"point of view called evolution.\\"  Needless to say, evolution is not a point of view but a set of proven scientific principles.  Creationism is about a scientific as \\"non-Euclidean topological chaotic supersymmetric Lacanian psychoanalysis\\" except that the latter isn't trying to pollute the minds of the young.	2005-06-11
US	39352452	R3BG8MPLEF9QIA	0375422218	633305509	The Constants of Nature: From Alpha to Omega--the Numbers That Encode the Deepest Secrets of the Universe	Books	2	6	19	N	N	Anthropic?	Barrow, an astronomer, is the chief advocate of the so-called \\"anthropic cosmological principle,\\" which he treats in some detail in this book.  There are two basic objections to this notion.      First, if chaotic inflation is correct then there should be an infinite number of universes out there, past, present and future, taking all possible physical constants.  In this case, there should be no wonder that a certain percentage of these universes should happen to take fundamental constants (such as the ratio of the strength of the gravitational force versus that of the electromagnetic force) that are favorable to life.  The law of large numbers means that it would be strange if NO universes should have life.  A percentage of life-supporting or even life-suffusing universes would be infinite if the number of \\"baby\\" or \\"bubble\\" universes out there is indeed infinite.  If a large enough number of people buy the Powerball lottery, then some people are bound to win sooner or later, no matter how small the odds.  Feeling that life is special because the physical constants in our universe require \\"fine tuning\\" would be like saying that if you are the Powerball winner, that's because the lottery was designed for you and you only.  And that's absurd.  The jackpot is given to whoever has the winning ticket, and not just you.  And more importantly, the lottery was never designed with giving away prizes as its primary goal - it was designed to bring in revenue.  Winners are just an inevitable side-effect of the whole scheme.  If you win, you're merely lucky.  But there is nothing special about you.  Of course, a lottery must have winners or else the lottery would not work.  The difference between lotteries and nature is that there is no reason to suppose that life is necessary in order for universes to exist.    We can all feel life is special for other reasons, but one should not argue that this is because nature is the way it is in order that life exists without also asking why it doesn't exist in SO MANY other places.  And even if our universe is the only possible one (such a view is no longer acceptable), it is still a matter of debate among physicists as to whether fine tuning actually occurred.         The other objection is that this so-called \\"principle\\" is really just an interpretation, and is in no way a scientific principle comparable to the laws of mechanics or natural selection.  Sir Martin Rees says \\"anthropic reasoning\\" is more appropriate.  It does not command general consent among scientists, and is thus more like a philosophical school of thought than a genuine scientific principle.  To elevate anthropic ideas to the status of \\"principles\\" is exaggerated and misleading.    In my view, scientists like Barrow who win the Templeton Prize are disqualified thereby, somewhat like athletes who test positive for banned drugs.  I'm not suggesting that scientists cannot have religious beliefs (and I was surprised to know that Andre Linde, a founder of chaotic inflation, also does).  I only insist that scientific research should not be misused for religious purposes.  Barrow can perhaps point to distinguished scientists like Freeman Dyson and John Wheeler for sympathy with his views.  But I think this only shows that even distinguished scientists can be in serious error.  Nobel Laureate in Physics Steven Weinberg, who thinks more clearly about these matters than most, finds that the Weak Anthropic Principle is nothing more than \\"mystical mumbo jumbo\\" (because it's just common sense to say that if the physical constants had been any different we would not have existed), and that the Strong Anthropic Principle is unbelievable because our universe is probably not the only one.      The main virtue of this book is the breadth of its coverage and the range of subjects discussed.  Its erudition is broad rather than deep.	2005-06-07
US	39352452	R2P8XYAI4W0RV0	0192821474	698097005	The Anthropic Cosmological Principle (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	2	47	88	N	N	What principle?	Barrow is the chief advocate of the so-called \\"anthropic cosmological principle,\\" which he treats in some detail in this book.  There are two basic objections to this notion.      First, if chaotic inflation is correct then there should be an infinite number of universes out there, past, present and future, taking all possible physical constants.  In this case, there should be no wonder that a certain percentage of these universes should happen to take fundamental constants (such as the ratio of the strength of the gravitational force versus that of the electromagnetic force) that are favorable to life.  The law of large numbers means that it would be strange if NO universes should have life.  A percentage of life-supporting or even life-suffusing universes would be infinite if the number of \\"baby\\" or \\"bubble\\" universes out there is indeed infinite.  If a large enough number of people buy the Powerball lottery, then some people are bound to win sooner or later, no matter how small the odds.  Feeling that life is special because the physical constants in our universe require \\"fine tuning\\" would be like saying that if you are the Powerball winner, that's because the lottery was designed for you and you only.  And that's absurd.  The jackpot is given to whoever has the winning ticket, and not just you.  And more importantly, the lottery was never designed with giving away prizes as its primary goal - it was designed to bring in revenue.  Winners are just an inevitable side-effect of the whole scheme.  If you win, you're merely lucky.  But there is nothing special about you.  Of course, a lottery must have winners or else the lottery would not work.  The difference between lotteries and nature is that there is no reason to suppose that life is necessary in order for universes to exist.    We can all feel life is special for other reasons, but one should not argue that this is because nature is the way it is in order that life exists without also asking why it doesn't exist in SO MANY other places.  And even if our universe is the only possible one (such a view is no longer acceptable), it is still a matter of debate among physicists as to whether fine tuning actually occurred.         The other objection is that this so-called \\"principle\\" is really just an interpretation, and is in no way a scientific principle comparable to the laws of mechanics or natural selection.  Sir Martin Rees says \\"anthropic reasoning\\" would be more appropriate.  It does not command general consent among scientists, and is thus more like a philosophical school of thought than a genuine scientific principle.  To elevate anthropic ideas to the status of \\"principles\\" is exaggerated and misleading.    In my view, scientists like Barrow who win the Templeton Prize are disqualified thereby, somewhat like athletes who test positive for banned drugs.  I'm not suggesting that scientists cannot have religious beliefs (and I was surprised to know that Andre Linde, a founder of chaotic inflation, also does).  I only insist that scientific research should not be misused for religious purposes.  Barrow can perhaps point to distinguished scientists like Freeman Dyson and John Wheeler for sympathy with his views.  But I think this only shows that even distinguished scientists can be in serious error.  Nobel Laureate in Physics Steven Weinberg, who thinks more clearly about these matters than most, finds that the Weak Anthropic Principle is nothing more than \\"mystical mumbo jumbo\\" (because it's just common sense to say that if the physical constants had been any different we would not have existed), and that the Strong Anthropic Principle is unbelievable because our universe is probably not the only one.      The main virtue of this book is the breadth of its coverage and the range of subjects discussed.  Its erudition is broad rather than deep.	2005-06-04
US	39352452	R112JI7XL957BH	0192862006	172323462	The Universe That Discovered Itself	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Anthropic?	Barrow, an astronomer, is the chief advocate of the so-called \\"anthropic cosmological principle,\\" which he treats in some detail in this book.  There are two basic objections to this notion.      First, if chaotic inflation is correct then there should be an infinite number of universes out there, past, present and future, taking all possible physical constants.  In this case, there should be no wonder that a certain percentage of these universes should happen to take fundamental constants (such as the ratio of the strength of the gravitational force versus that of the electromagnetic force) that are favorable to life.  The law of large numbers means that it would be strange if NO universes should have life.  A percentage of life-supporting or even life-suffusing universes would be infinite if the number of \\"baby\\" or \\"bubble\\" universes out there is indeed infinite.  If a large enough number of people buy the Powerball lottery, then some people are bound to win sooner or later, no matter how small the odds.  Feeling that life is special because the physical constants in our universe require \\"fine tuning\\" would be like saying that if you are the Powerball winner, that's because the lottery was designed for you and you only.  And that's absurd.  The jackpot is given to whoever has the winning ticket, and not just you.  And more importantly, the lottery was never designed with giving away prizes as its primary goal - it was designed to bring in revenue.  Winners are just an inevitable side-effect of the whole scheme.  If you win, you're merely lucky.  But there is nothing special about you.  Of course, a lottery must have winners or else the lottery would not work.  The difference between lotteries and nature is that there is no reason to suppose that life is necessary in order for universes to exist.    We can all feel life is special for other reasons, but one should not argue that this is because nature is the way it is in order that life exists without also asking why it doesn't exist in SO MANY other places.  And even if our universe is the only possible one (such a view is no longer acceptable), it is still a matter of debate among physicists as to whether fine tuning actually occurred.         The other objection is that this so-called \\"principle\\" is really just an interpretation, and is in no way a scientific principle comparable to the laws of mechanics or natural selection.  Sir Martin Rees says \\"anthropic reasoning\\" would be more appropriate.  It does not command general consent among scientists, and is thus more like a philosophical school of thought than a genuine scientific principle.  To elevate anthropic ideas to the status of \\"principles\\" is exaggerated and misleading.    In my view, scientists like Barrow who win the Templeton Prize are disqualified thereby, somewhat like athletes who test positive for banned drugs.  I'm not suggesting that scientists cannot have religious beliefs (and I was surprised to know that Andre Linde, a founder of chaotic inflation, also does).  I only insist that scientific research should not be misused for religious purposes.  Barrow can perhaps point to distinguished scientists like Freeman Dyson and John Wheeler for sympathy with his views.  But I think this only shows that even distinguished scientists can be in serious error.  Nobel Laureate in Physics Steven Weinberg, who thinks more clearly about these matters than most, finds that the Weak Anthropic Principle is nothing more than \\"mystical mumbo jumbo\\" (because it's just common sense to say that if the physical constants had been any different we would not have existed), and that the Strong Anthropic Principle is unbelievable because our universe is probably not the only one.      The main virtue of this book is the breadth of its coverage and the range of subjects discussed.  Its erudition is broad rather than deep.	2005-06-03
US	39352452	R9F0F4JWDN181	0801880211	832669999	The Einstein Almanac	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Einstein's writings	This fine book is essentially a chronological bibliography of Einstein's writings.  While not exhaustive (Calaprice uses the word \\"selected\\"), this book provides a good real glimpse into what Einstein actually thought and researched and wrote as a scientist, philosopher and humanist from 1901-1955. Serious fans of Einstein (like myself) who don't have the multi-volume Collected Papers of Albert Einstein at arm's length will find this little book quite useful.  Here you find the titles of articles, papers, essays, and even interviews accompanied by the originals in German (where appropriate). Descriptive or explanatory comments follow most of them.  Did you know that Einstein studied the meandering of rivers?  He wrote some illuminating papers on this geological question. Or that he and Leo Szilard patented home refrigeration by the \\"Einstein-Szilard pump\\"?   Most standard biographies wouldn't mention these.  But an Einstein almanac might.  This one does.  (The important scientific papers are of course not neglected.)    To place Einstein's life in context, Calaprice includes many historical and scientific events - some of which bear only a remote relevance to Einstein.  I personally think these can be replaced by more biographical info.  For example, what James Watson and Murray Gell-Mann did, while interesting and important, hardly merit entry into an Einstein Almanac.  What Otto Hahn did is more relevant and may be included.  There are other books on the history of science in the twentieth century and even more on the history of historical events. My idea of an Einstein almanac would exclude anything not directly related or relevant to Einstein.  If it were up to me, any event not directly involving Einstein I would ruthlesssly exclude.      This is my main humble criticism (and my own opinion).  One other shortcoming is that few personal letters are included.  But this is quite understandable because letters don't usually carry titles.  Also, Einstein wrote so many letters in his lifetime that to list them all and summarize them with comments would be a herculean task.  For letters, interested students should refer to the CPAE.  But I think a separate chapter on the most important letters Einstein wrote might be a good idea for the next edition (if any).  Some of Einstein's most incisive thoughts are found in his letters (such as those to Max Born) and a brief overview of these may be useful.    One more suggestion for improvement (bear with me) might be a detailed timeline of Einstein's life.  Timelines differ in details.  Very extensive and all-inclusive timelines provide a virtually day-by-day chronology. One outstanding example of these would be University of Delaware professor Leo Lemay's Documentary History of Benjamin Franklin, which is an on-going project available on the Web.  It gives impressive details of what Franklin was doing and where he was doing it on numerous specific dates.  Calaprice's other books about Einstein already have brief timelines.  An Einstein Almanac could use a very detailed one.  (This book also has a brief timeline of Einstein's early years - but then again not all the details seem to me relevant.  A lot of things happened in 1895 for Einstein, but I see no point in mentioning the invention of the Gillette razor, for instance, because this has nothing to do with Einstein, whether or not he used one.)  Just listing all of Einstein's personal and scientific activities, rather than non-Einstein events, can be a worthwhile if lengthy task.  But an almanac is designed to be full of dates.    Leave out the fat of irrelevant non-Einstein stuff, and build more muscle of Einstein-exclusive matters, and this book could be even better and more useful than it already is.  If this book is also an on-going project, then there is room for growth on what is in my view an excellent basis.	2005-05-22
US	39352452	R3UT7G226QQ9SF	0609809997	413235641	How the Scots Invented the Modern World: The True Story of How Western Europe's Poorest Nation Created Our World & Everything in It	Books	1	33	69	N	N	Brilliant viewpoints!	Why of course the Chinese government was entirely to blame for the opium imported by the Scotsmen Jardine and Matheson!  It just like when Americans have a cocaine problem, it is the US government, and not the drug smugglers and dealers, that has the responsibility.  And if the Chinese folks got addicted to this narcotic, well, it's for their own good you know.  At least that's Herman's view.  Also, the Scots who thus created Hong Kong for the opium trade did not do all this hard work for money or for themselves.  Yes, they did make a little money but that's not why they were in China.  They imported opium in order to create Hong Kong so that one day it will become a \\"premier\\" commercial city of the Orient, with the ultimate goal of teaching China western financial and economic techniques.  If it were not for Jardine and Matheson, how could China have become a great power today, or a candidate superpower tomorrow?  No, these two far-sighted Scots had this noble, lofty goal in mind when they came to China, nothing lesss.  When historians condemn these two for their \\"crime\\" (drug-dealing, that is) they forget that they are actually heroes, as Herman sees so clearly and correctly.  And so it is completely unjust that a brilliant people like the Scots don't even have a country they can call their own while the \\"barbaric\\" and \\"decadent\\" Chinese do.	2005-05-10
US	39352452	R225FAQ09QL69P	0691120757	597310982	The New Quotable Einstein	Books	5	44	46	N	N	On the whole excellent	I was overjoyed when the first edition came out. Here in one small volume were many of Einstein's most famous lines.  I was even happier when new expanded editions came out.  I have used the book almost as an index to my collection of books about Einstein (and I have a dozen of them).    But I noticed one problem in the editing.  In the first edition, in the chapter \\"On Religion, God, and Philosophy,\\" Einstein is quoted as saying \\"I see only with deep regret that God punishes so many of his children for their numerous stupidities, for which only he can be held responsible; in my opinion, only his nonexistence could excuse him.\\"  In the \\"expanded\\" edition, the word \\"only\\" (the first one) was removed.  Well, this changes the meaning a lot, given what we know about Einstein's denial of free will in man.  With the word \\"only\\" removed, God's guilt is lightened, as though suggesting there are other culprits, but in so doing she also distorts Einstein's meaning.  I was startled enough by this that I went to the science library at the University of Toronto, and double-checked Einstein's words in the multivolume \\"Collected Papers of Albert Einstein.\\"  The word \\"only\\" appears in both the German original (\\"nur\\") and the English translation.  Over and over Eisntein denied that human beings have free will, and so objectively there is no one to blame for our crimes but God - if, as Einstein said, He even existed.      Initially I suspected the editor of deleting \\"only\\" deliberately - after all, the \\"censored\\" version appears in both the second and third editions.  But I'm now satisfied that this was an honest editing error and I have been reassured that it will be corrected in the next edition.    On the whole, the quotes are quite reliable.  And the sources are very wide, including not only Einstein's own collected papers but the Einstein Archive and other secondary writings (such as memoirs).  There must be materials that may be new and interesting even to Einstein scholars.In his foreword Freeman Dyson claims Einstein had a \\"darker side\\" - for example, with respect to his family.  Well, I'm sorry, but Einstein never pretended he was a saint.  He was in some ways only an ordinary human being with a very extraordinary brain.  He was certainly no great father or husband.  But Einstein never asked anyone to censor his biography for him, making him look better than he was.  If he cheated his wife, he did so virtually openly.  So I think Dyson's point is really pointless.  Besides, the term \\"darker side\\" misleads people into thinking that Einstein must have done some evil deeds which he tried to keep away from view.  Newton's deceitful conduct in the priority dispute certainly suggests a nasty side to his personality.  Nothing of the kind was ever in Einstein's character or conduct.  Einstein had a temper, and he could be grumpy, or sexist, or rude, or over-the-top in his words on occasion.  And that's about as far as his \\"dark side\\" gets. So what?  He never did anything remotely criminal or unethical or even deceitful, for those of us wondering what this \\"dark side\\" means.  (Incidentally, Dyson's assertion that the Japanese show \\"exquisite taste\\" in admiring Einstein and Hawking defies common sense. It's not just the Japanese but the whole world over who have such \\"exquisite taste\\"; nor is it just Einstein and Hawking whom the Japanese admire. The Japanese admire all sorts of people, some of whom would not be considered terribly heroic by us.  Dyson is a great mathematical physicist, but I'm familiar enough with Dyson's many writings to know this guy doesn't always say sensible things.)  Returning to Dyson's foreword, his story about armed Israeli soldiers commandeering Einstein's files at Princeton, NJ on a dark and rainy Christmas night, possibly breaking American laws, while good enough for a cheap movie scene, sounds too fantastic to be believable.  His implication is that Einstein's dirty laundry is now safely and deliberately hiddenin the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.  Unless you're a connoisseur of conspiracy theories, you can safely dismiss this notion.  Unless the files are physically destroyed, archivists will dig them out sooner or later.  There is no reason to believe that non-Israeli Einstein specialists are denied access to them.  I can't say I'll never be surprised by new revelations, but I doubt any will be interesting enough by now because the most important of Einstein's deeds and words and beliefs are already well known.  What's yet to be revealed is most likely not interesting enough.  (If someone could somehow find a manuscript proving Mileva doing most of the original mathematical thinking in Special Relativity, that would be an example of interesting new revelations.)     This book is very good as a general introduction to Einstein the man and even to his physics to a limited extent.  The quotes are well-chosen and cover a good range.  On the other hand, I wouldn't call it an Einstein concordance.  For one thing, it is too short to be any such thing.  For another, only an expert about Einstein AND his physics - like Abraham Pais - is qualified to compile a \\"concordance.\\"  (It would help that this expert also knew Einstein personally, though this is perhaps not necessary.)    This book is thus not the real thing - but surely a handy enough substitute.  Its merits still far outweigh its imperfections.  Here in one handy volume you can find Einstein's views on wide range of subjects, from politics to women to pipesmoking to Germans and Jews and of course physics.  Not all of us will agree with everything he said.  But in my opinion, Einstein's insights in philosophy, the scientific method, and music are devastatingly penetrating.  And this book gives a fair and representative sample of these.  (For those of you who are really interested in Einstein's \\"darker side,\\" look for his tough opinions on Germans.  For me, Einstein's bitter views of Germans come closest to showing his so-called \\"darker\\" side.  Close but not quite though.  Given all those dumb things Germans did in his lifetime, who can blame him?)    Two indexes, one for subjects and another for key words, make this book particularly user-friendly.    Calaprice has done Einstein admirers like myself a fine service.  And the timing of this edition is good.  Not only is 2005 the 100th anniversary of Special Relativity (1905), but April 18, 2005 is also the 50th anniversary of Einstein's death.	2005-03-28
US	39352452	R2RNBEYKZL6BHV	069110297X	480412403	Einstein and Religion: Physics and Theology	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A fascinating book (with some criticisms of my own)	I think Jammer does us a fine service by writing a book about a subject that is too often neglected.  Not that Einstein's religious views were ever unknown, but it is surprising that this seems to be the first book devoted to this subject.    The exchanges between Einstein and Rabbi Geller are for me an important new piece of information (see pp. 85-86), as is Einstein's denial of free will in his letter to Besso (p. 87).  But interestingly, Jammer neglects to mention Einstein's letter to Otto Juliusburger, who in 1946 tried to assess Hitler's responsibility for the Holocaust.  Einstein's reply would not now be considered politically correct (at least in Jammer's Israel): \\"You take a definite stance on Hitler's responsibility...  Objectively, there is after all no free will.  What need is there for a criterion for responsibility?\\"   Einstein was of course a sworn enemy of Hitler (and so should he be).  But this statement is so amazing that I think Jammer was wrong to omit it.  He should have quoted this statement, while emphasizing that Einstein blamed Hitler and the Germans for their evil deeds and he never forgave them.  (Most of these quotes, especially if from private letters, are kept in the multi-volume \\"Collected Papers of Albert Einstein\\" published by Princeton UP and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.)    In one of the more interesting quotes in this book, Einstein believed quantum mechanics has no practically relevant impact on his deterministic view of life-events.  But in this connection Jammer fails to mention how Bohr's complementarity could be applied to Einstein's determinism with satisfactory results - even though Jammer has a third of the book devoted to speculation about how science now affects philosophical and religious matters.  (Despite this, there are some important Einstein quotes in this chapter as well.)      It is obvious that Einstein rejected the notion that quantum uncertainty undermines his denial of free will because he rejected quantum mechanics itself.  Jammer points out that Einstein was wrong about locality, which was one of his main objections to quantum mechanics.  Jammer cites Bell's theorem (p. 226) and the Aspect experiments as proving nonlocality, and claims that Einstein's belief in locality and his determinism are two basic tenets of his philosophy, as they indeed appear to be.  But Jammer's implication seems to be that if Einstein got locality wrong, perhaps he was completely wrong about quantum mechanics, hence about quantum uncertainty, thus about determinism, thus about...his denial of free will?  In other words, if Einstein was wrong about locality, he might have been wrong about determinism too.  If Einstein was mistaken about one basic tenet of his philosophy, what makes us think he was right about the other?  What Jammer fails to realize is that it was John Bell himself who said that strict determinism could well be the only way to make nonlocality compatible with all those horrible paradoxes like faster-than-light signals which contradict Special Relativity.  In Bell's opinion, Einstein might have been wrong about nature being local, but strict determinism of which Einstein was always convinced might not be wrong after all.  This is such an important point that I think Jammer should have discussed it, especially in Chapter 3, where he discusses his (Jammer's) own views on Einstein's philosophy.    On a more trivial note, Jammer is wrong that Einstein picked up his denial of the freedom of the will from Spinoza.  The fact is, Einstein got this idea first from Schopenhauer, then from Hume, and only later from Spinoza.  I was disappointed how Jammer has throughout this book neglected the importance of Schopenhauer and Hume in Einstein's philosophical and religious development. I would agree though that Einstein's \\"cosmic religion\\" came from Spinoza.    Jammer is at pains to emphasize that he doesn't proselytize or paddle any religious or sectarian viewpoints.  He succeeds inthis regard, in my opinion.  What he does clearly try to convey, though, is the impression that religion in general and science are not in conflict, and he quotes Einstein's facetiously ambiguous statement \\"Science without religion is blind; religion with science is lame\\" (or something to this effect) to prove this point, almost ad nauseum.  I'm not sure Jammer has convinced me.  But Einstein's statements about religion are often ambiguous and confusing enough to provide plenty of material for someone with a secret ax to grind to quote from.  On the other hand, Einstein was quite adamant and clear in (1) his determinism, (2) his denial of the immortality of the soul (which Einstein did not believe exist apart from the brain), and (3) his denial of a personal God.  Jammer does a good job of faithfully reporting these views.  This is not as easy a task as it seems, because (1) clearly conflicts with the deeply held beliefs of most people and the basic dogmas of Christian, Catholic, and Jewish religions; because (3) conflicts with all major religions excepting Buddhism; and because (2) conflicts with ALL religions, past and present.  So I think Jammer has shown his competence here.    A \\"B-\\" effort.  I hope someday someone will come up with an even better one.  Right now this is the best we have.	2005-03-23
US	39352452	R3TP53LF1E24EX	1573222844	663863914	Where Shall Wisdom Be Found?	Books	1	13	40	N	N	This book displays a complete lack of wisdom	Apart from learning from personal experiences, wisdom is found in learning from the collective experiences and mistakes of mankind.  This means reading history and biography.  A basic science literacy is also necessary - certainly one can find important lessons from cosmology and evolution.  Only after history, biography and science does literature come into the picture, and even then to confine oneself to the literature of the West, as Bloom does, is shockingly short-sighted in both senses of the term.  Judging by Bloom's works, one feels that he doesn't even realize such countries as China, Japan, and Iran even exist.	2004-12-09
US	39352452	RP9XYHSBSY8Z3	1585675652	868576545	Alexander the Great: the Hunt For a New Past	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Fair biography	I think Cartledge's judgment about Alexander is sound and fair overall.    On Alexander's sexuality, Cartledge reaches these conclusions, which I also agree with: 1) that Alexander was not an exclusive homosexual; 2) that he found sex generally distasteful - but in this case sex is defined as heterosex only; 3) that Alexander was rather limited in the number of his sexual partners, regardless of gender (at least for a king with absolute power); 4) that he had sex with women for \\"political or procreative purposes,\\" as opposed to romance or pleasure; 5) the only great love of his life was Hephaeistion, who happened to be another male; 6) and that Alexander's relationship with Hephaeistion included sexual or physical intimacy.    It is all too common to point out (as Guy Rogers does) that ancient Greek men were in some ways bisexual, without however noting whether Alexander himself conformed to the traditional pattern.  There is every indication that he did not, in so far as his one certain sexual partner was male, and also because he did not seem to have outgrown this relationship (as most normal Greek men did) to prefer marriage with a woman.  As far as I can tell, Alexander preferred Bagoas (the Persian eunuch) in bed to a woman, any day or night.    One new biography of Alexander claims to be \\"accurate, balanced, and convincing.\\"  I'm not sure that's the case.  No biography of such an elusive figure can pretend to such claims, but I think Cartledge's has come closer to most.    The thematic structure of the book is refreshing, as Lane Fox and Green and others have written theirs more or less chronologically.  This book is user-friendly to the general reader - it has a timeline, battle diagrams, detailed maps, a glossary of terms, dramatis personae, a full annotated bibliography, and an index.	2004-11-19
US	39352452	R5Z672PTU59K9	1400062616	179098893	Alexander: The Ambiguity of Greatness	Books	2	27	38	N	N	The ambiguous quality of this book	This book is a serious attempt at another life of Alexander, perhaps to coincide with Oliver Stone's film due out later this month.  But I have some difficulty with some of the claims in this book, particularly with respect to the following:<br /><br />1) The notion that Alexander's life is now capable of a \\"balanced\\" and reliable biography. The truth is, much that is thought to be known about him remains conjectural. The main outline is clear, but I'm astounded by this claim to balance and objectivity.  One needs only read Claude Mosse to know how thorny the problem is for a historian.<br /><br />2) The idea that Alexander was somehow responsible for the spread of Christianity.  (I mean, come on.)<br /><br />3) The wishful thinking that sex was not an important factor in his relationship with Hephaistion. There may be no unambiguous evidence that sex was central to their friendship, but then there is no unambiguous evidence for anything about Alexander.  It has been said that Alexander was never defeated except by Hephaistion's thighs.  Ancient Greeks (men) of his station and profession regularly engaged in sexual behavior with members of their own sex (that's what their \\"symposium\\" was really for).  And Alexander's extreme, totally out-of-line reaction to Hephaistion's death suggests (to me anyway) that Hephaistion was much more than a lover.  As Alexander was used to point out, Hephaistion was also Alexander.  At a minimum, that he was his Patroclus (to Alexander's Achilles) was made clear to all by Alexander himself.<br /><br />4) Above all, the comparison of Alexander with Truman and Churchill because of the \\"ambiguity of greatness\\" which the author claims they have in common.  I am not at all convinced that such a comparison is warranted by the facts.  Truman ordered the atomic bombings in order to prevent more deaths on both the Japanese and the American sides.  And yes, Churchill made some mistakes as a strategist which resulted in unnecessary deaths.  But Alexander was directly and personally responsible for massacres (sometimes of civilians), tortures, forced marches, blood sacrifices (for his Hephaistion, for example), ruthless purges of his own Companions, and other atrocities which would be abhorrent by ancient or modern standards.  Nothing of the kind could be attached to Truman or Churchill.  Also, Alexander was always the aggressor in his career.  There is no evidence that the Persians under Darius had concrete plans to conquer Alexander and occupy Macedon.  Can anyone honestly tell me that Truman or Churchill started World War II?  To claim that Alexander was no mass murderer does not really match his record.  It is also unnecessary, I believe, to establish his historical greatness.<br /><br />It is quite jarring to me to compare Alexander's \\"ambiguity of greatness\\" with that of Truman and Churchill.  In my opinion, the greatness of Truman and Churchill is far less ambiguous than Alexander's.  But it is also my belief that Alexander's greatness surpasses that of Truman or Churchill.  If a comparison should be made at all, Alexander should have been placed next to Napoleon Bonaparte, who unlike Alexander was defeated not by alcohol (if Alexander wasn't murdered by poisoned wine he would in any case have been killed by too much of it) but by his own lack of restraint, but whose long-term legacy is as enduring as Alexander's.<br /><br />Alexander is known as \\"the Great\\" for three reasons: first, the extent of his conquests, which were incredibly large by ancient standards (esp. for one individual); second, his military prowess, which includes not only his personal physical bravery but also the fact that his stunning brilliance as field commander resulted in an unbroken record of victories (except for the self-inflicted disaster in the Gedrosian desert); and finally, also for his personal charm, for which there are some legendary examples (until that quality began to be destroyed by increasing irrationality, tyrannical tendency, and advanced alcoholism).  That he treated the Persian royal ladies with respect was unexpected of someone in his situation at that time.  A man so dominated psychologically by his own mother could hardly have been accused of immunity to feminine intelligence.  But for some reason the author immediately jumps to the conclusion that Alexander was therefore a proto-feminist.<br /><br />But none of these can whitewash the fact that Alexander was the undisputed cause of much suffering and many deaths, none of which can be said to have prevented more of the same.  To quote Peter Green, who seems to me a much more balanced historian, \\"It is idle to palliate this central truth, to pretend that he dreamed, in some mysterious fashion, of wading through rivers of blood and violence to achieve the Brotherhood of Man by raping an entire continent.  He spent his life, with legendary success, in the pursuit of personal glory, Achillean 'kleos'... The empire he built collapsed the moment he was gone; he came as a conqueror and the work he wrought was destruction.\\"  Note the term \\"central truth.\\"  This is a view which the Cambridge scholar Paul Cartledge (whose new biography of Alexander I have enjoyed) would probably not disagree with.  Alexander was indeed great, but not for the reasons Prof. Rogers imagines, I'm afraid.  High-minded ideals of the sort sometimes attributed to him (as in this book) would have seemed totally inscrutable to the real Alexander, while his own soldiers were motivated by even baser things, such as loot. I need hardly add that to the eyes of Genghis Khan the \\"continent\\" Alexander \\"raped\\" - roughly speaking, what lies between the Adriatic and the Indus - would have seemed like an absurd pebble.  The Mongols at their apex owned everything east of the Black Sea including the Black Sea itself, the Ukraine, all of Russia, much of eastern Turkey, the Caucasus, the whole Mesopotamia (modern Iraq), the northern coasts of the Persian Gulf and theentire Persia, all of Central Asia, the Hindu Kush, Tibet, all of China right down to Hong Kong, and the complete Korean peninsula.  Only the Arabian deserts, the Indian subcontinent, southeast Asia and Japan remained out of their grasp.  They wiped out the Germans (the Teutonic Knights) and cleaned up the Poles in battle in Hungary.  They turned back from Europe only because their great khan suddenly died.  Their troop strength was often 1 to 100 of their enemies.  Yet their conquests last almost two centuries, while Alexander's barely survived his own lifetime.  Genghis began the war and, unlike Alexader's satraps, his successors continued his work.  The amount of land and the number of people under their rule was hugely out of proportion to their homeland, and the ratio between the homebase and the conquests compares very favorably with Alexander's Macedon and his empire.  Alexander got as far as Pakistan but not even India proper.  Alexander was great, certainly, but not nearly as great as this book's author likes to claim even judging by the crudest measure of the acreage of land touched by the hoofs of his horses.  (And where Alexander rode big, beautiful steeds worthy of racing, Genghis had only ponies for his job.)<br /><br />This book reminds one of Sir William Tarn's influential but flawed biography - without, however, the authoritativeness which Tarn, who wrote the chapters on Alexander in the prestigious \\"Cambridge Ancient History,\\" for too long commanded.  The resemblance with Tarn's \\"League of Nations Alexander\\" is striking.  Both are hagiographies, reflecting the authors' certain personal views of current events but inevitably compromising their objectivity.  It is significant that Alexander's conquests included modern Iraq, and that Tarn was a Victorian colonialist in search of a justification.  Peter Green observes that Tarn's approach is \\"totally bankrupt in principle, if still a most impressive achievement over mattes of detail.\\"  Paul Cartledge calls Tarn's view \\"exploded\\" by the evidence.  The Oxford scholar Robin Lane Fox has even harsher words: Tarn's interpretation was \\"persistently mistaken both in method and evidence.\\"  I don't claim to refute Prof. Rogers in every matter of detail.  But I do question his general approach to and overall interpretation of Alexander, in much the same way that Tarn's own is now thoroughly questioned by other Alexandrine specialists.  To imagine that the ruthless conqueror who torched Persepolis was a liberal progressive who intended to spread his gentlemanly ideals wherever he went strikes me as too politically motivated for comfort.  It's all right for a journalist to do so, but not for a historian.	2004-11-12
US	39352452	R219I05OOWXSQA	0781206618	359155626	Outline of History	Books	4	8	22	N	N	Not bad for an amateur	Wells's socialist stance may annoy some, but to me that's not nearly as irritating as his constant use of the term \\"Aryan\\" to refer to Indo-Europeans or, more specifically, northern Europeans.  The A- word might have been in vogue in the 1920's, but it has been so much abused by Nazis that no self-respecting professional historians would use it nowadays.  In Nazi Germany, \\"Aryans\\" practically meant Germans with no Jewish ancestry.  (This is not to confuse with \\"Arianism,\\" the ancient Christian sect which bears a close resemblance to Unitarianism.  Sir Isaac Newton was a closet Arian.)    Still, Wells managed to cram together an impressive array of facts and figures from the history of the whole world (and not just the Western world).  Not a bad job for a non-historian.	2004-10-30
US	39352452	R1RA9ZLK5EUL6U	1903083028	351740289	System of Nature	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Enlightenment indeed	What impresses me the most is how firm, consistent, and bold d'Holbach was in holding certain opinions which at the time were shocking to (most of the) learned and unintelligible to (almost all the) unlearned.  This guy was not just smart - he had guts, knew he was right, stuck to his guns, and never wavered.    D'Holbach did not write for fame (he wrote anonymously, for his neck's sake) or for money (he was very rich by inheritance), but for truth.      D'Holbach would have been pleased to know that Einstein was also a strict determinist like him, that Francis Crick was also a materialist like him (believing matter is all there is and rejecting \\"the soul\\", \\"mind-brain dualism\\" and similar nonsense), and that atheism is no longer a radical thing (to put it mildly), especially among the educated.  Most natural scientists are now atheists.  D'Holbach's utilitarianism would find wide appeal in this democratic age.  If alive today, d'Holbach would be in good company among some of the greatest minds of the world.      But even in this day and age, there are scientists, of all people, who believe otherwise!  (E.g., Freeman Dyson, who belives in free will, John Eccles, who believed in mind-body dualism, and John Polkinghorne, the mathematical physicist who is also a priest in the Church of England.)  And so d'Holbach's book is still a pleasure to read - and much needed.  But if the objective reality of nature revealed by science hasn't convinced you by now of d'Holbach's point of view, this book isn't going to convince you either.  Those who come to read it are (like me) probably already converted by other means.    Incidentally, I'd add that d'Holbach showed pretty sound judgments about other matters.  He speculated that the human species might have arrived by evolutionary stages, long before Charles Darwin proved this to be the case.  (And it would be a few years after d'Holbach's death in 1789 that Erasmus Darwin first hinted at evolution.)  Also, when discussing how small events can give rise to very big events d'Holbach made an incredibly prescient guess about Napoleon's birth.  D'Holbach also showed he understood men when he warned the normally clever Hume (who was 12 years his senior) about Rousseau's character.      Baron d'Holbach was wisdom personified.	2004-10-03
US	39352452	R1G1P96DQTDVGQ	0446577448	407263049	Exporting America: Why Corporate Greed Is Shipping American Jobs Overseas	Books	3	9	26	N	N	Eloquent but much too one-sided	I suppose most of those who are interested in this book are already partial to it, so I'm not here to argue with them.  I'm a regular, indeed frequent, viewer of his show on CNN.  And so it is no surprise to me that much of what Dobbs has to say in this book is a rehashing of his own broadcast - often word for word.  This by itself is not necessarily a fault. <br /> <br />What I have a problem with, is basically his one-sided approach.  He wants to help the US worker.  But he forgets the US consumer.  If everything were still made in the USA, a pair of NIKE sneakers would cost $500, a computer monitor at least $3000, etc.  Even if all the jobs were kept at home, few people could afford such prices, and the standard of living would collapse.  Dobbs wants to drive down the trade deficit by pushing foreign governments to play fair.  But foreign governments only respond to market forces back in the US.  There wouldn't be a deficit if all American consumers start buying only US-made goods.  But who among us can do that these days?  Dobbs wants to stop American companies exporting America by moving jobs overseas, like to China.  The problem is, American companies find the same workforce at one-tenth the cost there.  If you were a CEO, you would sure want to be patriotic.  But first you want to keep your company profitable, don't you?  (Or soon you wouldn't be CEO.)  What choice do you have?  Even worse, America is no longer producing the required scientists and engineers some companies like Cisco need; they find them in China.  Cisco can't fix the American educational system, so they do the obvious.  Dobbs keeps talking about \\"common sense\\" rather than \\"theory\\".  Well, CEO's are using common sense when outsourcing, and Dobbs is not. <br /> <br />There is another issue.  Dobbs presents the facts as though this trade arrangement is new.  He goes as far back as Clinton, and starts criticizing every trade deal made since then (such as the NAFTA and the WTO deals).  His pointseems to be that US jobs are being bled dry by insane policies of the last decade.  Reality check: the US has been losing manufacturing jobs overseas for at least three, maybe four decades.  No president, no Congress, no anyone or any group, can reverse this process.  And if you shut out one outsourcing market, like China, that vacuum would be filled up right away by a dozen smaller markets - probably all in Asia. <br /> <br />Occasionally Dobbs invites guests on the show who disagree with him. These include not only the top business journalists, but also some top academics like the Nobel Laureate Joe Stiglitz and the renowned Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel (and the higher their status is, the more deference comes from Dobbs - such as less interrupting his guest - or so I've noticed).  Once Tom Donohue, the mere president of the US Chamber of Commerce, showed up and argued with him.  (Dobbs said \\"Shame on you\\" for not fixing the US educational system, as though this were Donohue's responsibility.)  Another guest, Clinton's US Trade Rep Charlene Barshefsky, tried to put him right on the \\"structural numbers, which are very hard to move.\\"  Meanwhile, Dobbs keeps berating the Bush admin officials from Treasury Sec to the Commerce Sec to the Labor Sec to the CURRENT US Trade Rep to even Alan Greenspan for their supposed \\"free trade\\" policies and for their criticizing \\"isolationism\\".  (Who else but the ultra-isolationist Dobbs do they have in mind?)  Just about the only ally Dobbs has these days is the labor unions - strange bedfellows for \\"a lifelong Republican\\" (as he describes himself in this book), someone who never gave a hoot in the rainbarrel about the workers.   <br /> <br />Given such an extraordinary phenomenon, it is possible that Dobbs' concerns are less economic than ethnic.  A hint of this is his other paranoia: the so-called alien invasion from Mexico.  (Funny it wasn't invasion when Europeans came to America uninvited and slaughtered Indians and took their land - presumably without their consent.  Until that wrong has been righted, no one has any business talking about immigration laws being broken.  How many Mexican laws did President Polk break?  None, for he had might on his side!  Is that just?)  In any case, Dobbs may or may not realize that what he is doing is giving wide publicity to outsourcing, tipping off other CEO's without making much of a dent in Congress.  But then how else can he keep his own job?	2004-09-25
US	39352452	R2B5BH3RKSOZ6G	0385500580	569055645	The God Gene: How Faith is Hardwired into our Genes	Books	1	19	32	N	N	Not real science	That there is a genetic predisposition to every aspect of our behavior, I do not doubt.  But I can't believe that specific genes have been isolated and identified as responsible for our religiosity.  After Hamer came out with his \\"gay gene\\" book, there was an uproar (which he clearly relished).  Soon the experts began to doubt much of Hamer's evidence and method, and they were right.  Hamer is of course right to suggest our genetic predisposition is at work for both sexuality and spirituality.  But in claiming to identify genes by the specific number, he goes beyond  - far beyond - this claim, and he's not earning the respect of his fellow geneticists.    If we have a religion gene, we also had one for tribal warfare.  That does not make tribal warfare praiseworthy.  But by now humans have evolved to the point where the gene for tribal warfare is considerably weakened and where it expresses itself mainly in sports.  The genetic disposition for violence, of course, remains as strong as ever.  But the specific genes for tribal warfare are not - with time they are becoming weaker.    The same thing is happening to that so-called \\"god gene\\" in much of the Western world.  Hamer is right to exclude the United States, but it is a fact that religion plays next to no role in the lives of northwestern Europeans (except for the Irish), the Japanese, and above all the Chinese.  For those of you who are surprised by this, turn to the new book by the Harvard political theorist Samuel Huntington, \\"Who are We\\".    As for the Chinese, Hamer does not seem to realize that not only is the government officially atheist, but that the vast majority of the people themselves no longer pay much attention to religion, and have little need for attending places of worship.  This is one of the few points where the government and the people converge, and Hamer might find out for himself if he goes to China.  Instead he points to the Falun Gong as China's religious revival, not knowing that this cult has never commanded great popularity in the country.  It earned considerable notoriety, but only after it had been banned - not before. Tai Chi is widely practised in China, to be sure, but this is not all Falun Gong is about, though it claimed to practise Tai Chi.  In any case, the government banned it not because it is a religion (they didn't ban outright other religions, though they do restrict them) but because it attempted to threaten the lives of the leaders themselves.  Even the Greenpeace would have been banned if they had tried that in China.    Hamer also errs when he describes Confucianism as a religion.  Buddhism is a religion.  Taoism is a religion mixed with alchemy and witchcraft.  But Confucianism is mainly a philosophy - for most of Chinese history the officially sanctioned philosophy.  If Confucianism permits worship, it is worship of one's ancestors, not a deity.  Confucianism disregards such things as \\"the soul\\" and does not discuss the beyond.  Now, what sort of \\"religion\\" is that?  I agree that if anything from Classical China re-emerges in the 21st-century China, it might be Confucianism in some variety and to some extent.  But to think that the Chinese when discarding communism have suddenly given free reign once more to their genetic \\"religiosity\\" (if they ever had any) because of Falun Gong or anything else flies in the face of current evidence and all known facts about contemporary China.    Whatever genetic disposition to religion there might be among the Chinese, it is almost certainly weaker with them than with any other people in the world, if one is to believe the studies cited by Huntington.  It also agrees with my own experience.  And if this is unpleasant to someone like Hamer, perhaps he should read Nobel Laureate Steven Weinberg's books to find out how bad an influence religion has had on people throughout history.  The so-called evolutionary advantages Hamer claims for religion are MORE THAN BALANCED by its pernicious effects.  To quote Weinberg: \\"With or without religion, bad people will do bad deeds and good people will do good deeds.  But for good people to do bad deeds, it takes religion.\\"  For proof one needs look no further than to Northern Ireland, Egypt, India, Saudi Arabia, and Iraq.  We need a \\"god gene\\" as much as we need a tribal warfare gene - that is to say, not at all.  Thanks to evolution, humans (for the better educated part) are moving away from superstition and toward rational behavior and belief.  That the United States is an exceptional case in this is an unfortunate historical accident aggravated by an influx of migrants from the third world where religion plays as important a part in life as it did in medieval Europe.	2004-09-20
US	39352452	R31ZHMRTVBTGFT	0099440687	148918425	The Road to Reality	Books	3	18	30	N	N	Encyclopedic if somewhat confusing	The publication date is supposed to be in 2005, but for some reason this book is already available in Canada.  <br /> <br />Penrose is a distinguished mathematical physicist specializing in general relativity.  That's where he shines.  But his views on certain matters I cannot agree with.  His skepticism towards string theory is not shared by the world's top physicists, including Michael Green of Cambridge (Britain) and Steven Weinberg at Texas.  He believes Edward Witten is not as great a mathematician as he is a physicist, a view Sir Michael Atiyah would heartily disagree.  Penrose completely rejects inflationary theories.  But unfortunately for him inflation is grounded in particle physics.  Supporters of inflation (at least those who find it convincing) include Leon Ledermann, Steven Weinberg, and the cosmologist the late David Schramm.  Penrose doesn't seem to realize that general relativity, great and powerful as it is, can only take you so far in terms of understanding the universe without help from theoretical particle physics.  Ironically, Penrose places his faith in quantum mechanics in trying to solve the mystery of the brain, not knowing that physics can only take you so far without help from neurobiology, biochemistry and molecular biology in understanding the consciousness problem (for which physics is certainly required but classical physics plus deterministic chaos will probably be sufficient). When Penrose talks about the brain using quantum theory and relativity, black holes, crystals, and the like, I feel like he is doing precisely what Schroedinger tried to do to the DNA puzzle - ignoring chemistry altogether.  That's like a philosopher beating the air with vague ideas.  Schroedinger had a good excuse because molecular biology and structural chemistry were still being developed.  Penrose seems to be living in a different world, given the spectacular advances in the biological sciences since Schroedinger wrote.  On the whole, I have doubts about Penrose's judgment about a lot of other issues as well. <br /> <br />This thick book is not as accessible as it sounds from the front flap.  There are quite a few equations with Greek letters, and the diagrams are hand-drawn, black-and-white, and not very clear.	2004-09-11
US	39352452	R3CCZGBOINNSPP	1400042305	167406250	Stalin: The Court of the Red Tsar	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Unusual book	Some interesting features: 1. written like a novel, full of dialogues; 2. juicy details, as in a tabloid; 3. credible reference and sources notes; 4. fails to acknowledge the works of Ronald Hingley & Adam Ulam, though it pays debt to Conquest & Tucker, among others; 5. presents a sympathetic view of Stalin, despite calling him many names as well; 6. no truly shocking new info about Stalin.	2004-07-27
US	39352452	R1YV97OJMDP89H	0199243360	791335660	The Life of David Hume	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Great book (but lousy printing)	Given the price of this book - some 40% overpriced for a book of this type and lenghth - you'd think that at least the print job should be done properly.  After all, this is the Oxford U Press.  Well, in my copy, the ink quantity fluctuates, so that some paragraphs are dark while others light.  This is a little annoying when the random contrasts have nothing to do with emphasis!  Also, the back breaks so easily, that this book is effectively a pulp print.  Then why the high price, pray tell me ?<br />Anyway, these are trivial matters.  The book itself is very good.  I consider it complementary to Norman Kemp Smith's study of Hume's philosophy, as it focuses on Hume the man rather than his philosophy.  As Sir James Jeans said, the biography of a philosopher is not irrelevant to his thought, and Hume is no exception. (This is less true of natural scientists.)  Mossner's book is particularly helpful in answering my own questions about Hume's religious views - a topic of the most controversial sort even in his own day.<br />I'm very impressed that Mossner pointed out the fact that Hume had inspired Einstein on his road to relativity.  This little known fact was always very important in my own estimate of the great philosopher.<br />Here's the irony.  Hume wrote his masterpiece in France, which remained the only place where he was really appreciated.  Back in Scotland, he could not even find a proper job.  And now, the best 20th century biography (there are good 19th century biographies) of Hume was written not by a Scotsman or even an Englishman, but by a Texan (probably) of Jewish descent.  What have all these Edinburgh professors (excepting Smith, of course) been doing all these years?  Given the primary sources at their disposal, why didn't they just pick up the pen to reconstruct the life of Scotland's - even Britain's - greatest non-scientific thinker?  One suspects that to this day Hume is still under-appreciated in Scotland.<br />Mossner's biography of Hume is alabor of love.	2004-07-07
US	39352452	R1D66Q3X0V0188	0192802526	82196264	Quantum Theory: A Very Short Introduction	Books	1	39	86	N	N	Not short enough	I'm thoroughly unimpressed by Rev. Polkinghorne's account of quantum physics.  Even though he is technically competent, Polkinghorne seems to get every major interpretation wrong.  For example, he thinks Bohr in error to consider free will and determinism complementary.  But Bohr's colleague and Nobel Laureate Max Born did say that Bohr's complementarity applies precisely to this situation.      Right on page 1 Polkinghorne shows his tendency to misunderstand.  Speaking of Laplace's conjecture, the physicist-turned-Anglican priest writes \\"In fact, this rather chilling mechanistic claim always had a strong suspicion of hubris about it.  For one thing, human beings do not experience themselves as being clockwork automata....\\"      This is like accusing someone of arrogrance because he said \\"If I were the president of the United States I would eliminate poverty...\\"  He did say \\"If,\\" didn't he?  Laplace always said this prediction of the future is only possible in principle, but impossible in practice.  In fact, in making his \\"thought experiment\\" - not a factual \\"claim,\\" as Polkinghorne thinks - he made two assumptions which he knew to be UNTRUE.  First, that such an ideal intelligence exists. (When Napoleon asked him about the Creator after reading his theory of the solar system, Laplace gave this magnificent reply: \\"Sire, I have no need for that hypothesis.\\")  And second, that this intelligence can analyse absolutely all data at once.      As for what humans \\"experience,\\" the fact is that not even a frog feels like a clockwork automatum.  But what we feel is irrelevant if our belief in free will is due to the unpredictability of our volition, and this unpredictability is due in to deterministic chaos, which leaves no room for free will at all, no matter how irregular we might feel.  In fact, no machine can perfectly understand another machine of exactly the same level of complexity, even without chaos added to the difficulty.  A machine may be able to understand another of lower level of complexity.  The same goes for humans: We may always have difficult understanding ourselves although we may eventually understand simpler organisms.  We humans have enough trouble understanding the nervous system of something as simple as a dog.  What Polkinghorne should have asked is: What would be the effect of quantum mechanics on this \\"thought experiment\\" of Laplace?  An honest answer would be: None.  Indeed, Laplace did not need chaos or quantum uncertainty to know that his conjecture is no more than just a thought experiment, though a very worthwhile and instructive one.    Polkinghorne puts down other physicists (and auto mechanics in general) by saying \\"The average quantum mechanic is no more philosophical than the average auto mechanic.\\"  Born, however, said that theoretical physics IS actually philosophy.  Bohr always said that there are important epistemological lessons to be drawn from the world of physics, especially elementary particle physics.  It's as though Polkinghorne has been asleep through all the major developments of the past century.  On the few occasions he is awake, he misunderstands and misrepresents. Polkinghorne himself may be no more philosophical than an auto mechanic (maybe even less so), but don't drag people like Schroedinger, Bohr, Born, Pauli, Heisenberg, Wheeler, Bell and Weinberg through the mud with such silly statements.	2004-06-25
US	39352452	R22G03R5HMX8SJ	0679730826	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Not bad narrative, questionable analysis	I like this book because it is comprehensive and wide-ranging in coverage, especially on warfare in the West. I don't always agree with Keegan, however.  On one point, for example, Hitler, I disagree.  Keegan thinks Hitler is unique in history, for three reasons: he used wars for political means, he believed in the warrior class superiority, and he was obsessed with technology.  This combination was unprecedented in any individual in history, Keegan argues, and it made Hitler so dangerous.    The truth is, Hitler merely echoed Frederick the Great and Bismarck in the first two mentioned attributes.  As for his obsession with technology, it was precisely Hitler's poor imagination and ignorance about science which prevented Germany, the world's leader in theoretical physics at that time, from developing the atomic bomb. He placed little faith in atomic physics, because in his limited mind this is associated with \\"Jewish physics.\\"  His interest in technical innovations in weaponry was neutralized by his impatience, his demand for instant results.  Americans took four years to make the bomb, and even that would have been too long for Hitler.  (Of course, given Germany's far more limited resources, they would have taken much longer even if maximum effort had been made - which wasn't, thanks to Hitler.)  I'm not impressed by this so-called unique combination in Hitler.  In his ruthlessness to civilians he merely resembles ancient tyrants; in his lack of restraints, he recalls Napoleon.  Hitler was an orator, but so were many others, including FDR and Churchill.  He had charisma, but that's hardly unique - Mussolini also had charisma.      Hitler was only so dangerous and so destructive because he led a highly organized and highly industrial state, not because there was anything special about Hitler.  Had Russia started World War II, Keegan would probably have said the same thing about Stalin.  Germany's destructive potential, not Hitler's, made the difference.  I believe the great man theory of history, popularized by Carlyle, is at least half true.  So Hitler's personality counted for a lot.  But so do the personalities of many other war lords.  As I scan the pages of history from prehistoric times in both the East and the West, I fail to see Hitler as extraordinary.  He was a mediocrity with a few very eccentric traits, that's all.    I need hardly add that this so-called unique combination - warrior ethics, technology obsession, war and politics as two sides of the same coin - was the very secret to the Mongols' success.  Genghis Khan and his successors lived and died by conquests, so the distinction between war and politics was not something they could have understood.  As for the warrior class superiority, the entire Mongol society was one warrior class who treated sedentary subjects like the Chinese with contempt.  And the Mongols certainly were quick to adopt new technologies: they used Chinese engineers when besieging Middle Eastern fortresses, and they picked up what they learned fighting in Arabia and applied it to their conquest of China.  So there is really nothing new about Hitler. Rather than being the first conqueror who combined these three characteristics, Hitler was actually the last.  That he was no doubt the most destructive of them is due to modern science and technology, not to the man himself.  Hitler could have been far more dangerous than he was had he not been so stupid.    This is not the only point on which I find myself in disagreement with Keegan, but it so galls me that I feel I must put him right.	2004-06-20
US	39352452	REFSBNM24C71Y	0374279659	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century	Books	1	2	7	N	N	America the all-powerful	Bill Emmott obviously tried to ingratiate himself with Americans as this book came out shortly after 9-11 and he wrote as though America is the only country that counts.  This may have been true in 1945.  By 2004, this is nonsense.	2004-06-18
US	39352452	R22LSOYX6EFXY6	0312283741	900502466	While America Sleeps: Self-Delusion, Military Weakness, and the Threat to Peace Today	Books	3	15	34	N	N	America as Athens	The authors are impressed that Sparta defeated Athens.  America is dangerously weak on defense, they argue, just like Athens.  My reply is that vast expenditure on defense did not save the USSR.  In fact, it was the reason for its collapse.<br />History repeats itself all right, but never exactly.  This much we know.  Besides, this book is not enlightened by any non-Western history, of which the Kagans know nothing.<br />The Kagans are certainly right that history tells us that your enemy could be an unexpected one.  Churchill writing after WWI had no idea Japan would be Britain's enemy, and no one in 1917 could imagine Russia becoming America's mortal enemy for four-and-a-half decades.  Those who think China is going to be trouble should take this lesson to heart.	2004-06-15
US	39352452	R1D681HCB0UCXM	0670032115	108824701	The Peloponnesian War	Books	3	13	38	N	N	Good enough account	I understand this is a sort of summary/abridgment of Kagan's 4-volume work on this subject.  But I'm still a little bothered by the fact that in 500 pages of narrative there is not a single source note anywhere.<br />Also, the &quot;Sources&quot; chapter at the end, only 3-and-a-half pages long, contains a bibliographic essay with very few monographs titles, and none in original Greek - not even Thucydides's.  Based on my limited impression, Kagan can hardly be called a classical scholar, only a specialist in ancient military history - the sort one might find in one or two professors at West Point (and indeed Kagan has a son who happens to be just that).<br />It doesn't bother me that Kagan has a tendency to draw parallels between current events and ancient ones.  He does so elsewhere, and not in this book.  (I should add by the way that his knowledge of any kind of history is strictly limited to that of the West, except for the 20th century).  What bothers me is that Kagan is touted as a great classicist whose work on the Peloponnesian War is the final word for the time being, a claim absurd enough to make an Oxford undergrad in Lit. Hum. wince.<br />Still, this book reads fast and will do for the general reader.	2004-06-12
US	39352452	R389U1A1USNPMN	0252068920	880830327	On Guerrilla Warfare	Books	5	73	80	N	N	Learn from the master	I think Mao intended this essay to be another one of his theoretical Marxist works (Mao thought of himself as a first-class Marxist theoretician).  But without question it also served as an instruction manual for his ragtag Red Army while fighting among the tortuous terrain in northwestern China, in part against Japan, in part against Chiang.  Considering his success as a practitioner of guerrilla warfare, one would have to be insane to ignore this work.    I'm struck how short that chapter is on guerrilla wars in history.  Mao was widely read in Chinese and world history and it would have been his style to display this knowledge in a work like this had he chosen to do so.    Perhaps Americans should not think of themselves as only at the receiving end of guerrillas.  Washington learned this kind of fighting during the French and Indian Wars, and he put some of this experience to good use against a British army better armed, better trained, and greater in numbers than the Continentals.  He exploited geography, made surprise raids, used mobility and patience to wear out the red coats - all hallmarks of guerrillas.  The all-important Battle of Trenton was such kind of unconventional warfare: an Indian raid, essentially.  But it sure got results.  Regular or conventional battles like Yorktown only came later, when British impatience was at the breaking point.  As Franklin had predicted, the British could and did occupy all the towns - including Philadelphia, New York, and Charleston - up and down the eastern coast but they could not hold onto them.  (The comparison with Iraq is irresistible.  The redcoats never numbered more than 30,000 or so men, fighting among 2.5 million American civilians.  Now America has 5 times as many troops in Iraq (about 150,000) as there were redcoats in the 13 colonies.  But Iraq's population is 25 million!  And that's not counting foreign fighters from Iraq's neighbors.  American guerrillas probably had better geography than Iraqi insurgents but the Iraqis seem more eager to commit suicide missions.)    Mao really could have done better than just cite Russian resistance to Napoleon as an example.  (Never mind his other Chinese examples. for the moment.)  Apart from Washington, the Spaniards also tore the Grand Armee to pieces with guerrillas - in fact, Spain's where the word came from.  Lawrence of Arabia sabotaged Turkish railways in northwestern Arabia (rather like insurgents blowing up Iraq's pipelines) - to great effect.  Of course, another great example of guerrilla warfare was the block-by-block, street-to-street fighting at Stalingrad.  But always, to my mind, the Teutoberg forest was where guerrillas first made their greatest name in Western history.  (I know little Greek history to comment further.)  Octavian lost three Roman legions thanks to the German barbarians, and Rome hadn't suffered a panic quite like this since Spartacus.    Believe it or not, Mao got his inspiration not from Lenin (though he paid much lip service to him), not even from Sun Tsu (whom he read only when his military career was over), but from the classic historical novels of ancient China, especially The Water Margins and Three Kingdoms.  That he didn't cite these is understandable enough: he always insisted on learning truths from facts, and novels don't provide facts though they do generate interest in the motivated reader.  And Mao was nothing if not motivated.    Griffith's extraordinary credentials are not worth repeating here.  His intro is excellent. He is dead right that guerrillas thrive anywhere: from the dense jungle of Vietnam to the flat deserts of Iraq.  Where there are clear political objectives (knowing the difference between long- and short-term goals), men willing to fight (and die), a will to win, and lots of patience, all it takes is a little hard thinking to make the worst-equipped great guerrilla warriors. Let us learn from the master, not by regurgitating his rules, which he would never have done himself, but by thinking critically and philosophically through his logic.	2004-06-11
US	39352452	R1G32Z9XWLVTQT	0844662984	255337606	The World of Odysseus	Books	5	9	19	N	N	Unanswerable	Well, here's Finley's conclusion: Homer's stories about the Trojan War are fiction, and Schliemann's &quot;discoveries&quot; of Troy do not support his wild claims (despite Schliemann's other services to archaeology).  Finley quotes the sceptical judgment of Charles Newton, the British Museum curator, who in 1878 wrote that we don't know the size of that kernel of truth in Homer's epics.  Finley went further: there is no historical truth at all in The Iliad, and as little in The Odyssey also.<br />My impression is that Finley was, and remains, a minority.  Most Greek scholars (historical, archaeological, or philological) feel that there IS some real facts in Homer.  For instance, J. B. Bury, writing in early last century in his History of Greece to the Death of Alexander the Great, stated that the traditional date of the Fall of Troy - i.e., the date indicated by Homer - 1183 BC, is correct, and that Homer's Troy corresponds to archaeological facts!<br />Bury was the Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge (strange title for a scholar of ANCIENT Greece and Rome), writing his book at a time when Finley was an infant.  It is possible that archaeological finds by 1954 have cast more doubts on Schliemann's labors, which were made in the 19th century.  But then Finley quotes Newton with approval, and Newton wrote in 1878.  It is equally possible (though I don't know) that modern archaeological discoveries have further supported Schliemann and not Finley.<br />In a sense, the whole debate is moot.  Many great works of literature are a mix of facts and fiction: Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, China's Three Kingdoms and The Journey to the West, Shakespeare's Julius Caesar.  These are great books.  To be sure, that kernel of truth may be very small in Homer, but we don't read Hamlet, let alone see it acted on stage, because we think the story is &quot;real&quot;.  That Homer's stories were believed by the ancients to be true (Alexander for one) is a major reason why westill have them today.  <br />And who can say for sure one finds nothing but true facts in history books?  Can't true history contain a kernel of fiction also?  Alexander, who believed in Homer without question and was inspired by The Iliad, is the subject of countless biographies, but whether we know whole truth and nothing but concerning Alexander is still a mystery.  The difference between him and Achilles is a matter of degrees.	2004-06-09
US	39352452	R2QC6R4G337Z24	0670032727	826778739	Martin Luther: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	2	16	29	N	N	Gently sidestepping Luther's masterpiece	Most modern Christians have trouble accepting Luther's denial of free will even though they admire Luther the man.  Marty proves to be no exception.  Luther considered his The Bondage of the Will (1525) his best work, but the best Marty could say about this was that Luther never retracted his views in this book.  (p. 130) That's an understatement, to say the least.  Also, in The Bondage of the Will Luther emphasized over and over that we humans have no free will or free choice, but Marty chooses to discuss Luther's views of the nature of God instead.  Luther did talk about this subject, but that's not the main issue of his masterpiece.  Marty's adjectives for Luther's greatest work include: &quot;raucous&quot;, &quot;drastic&quot;, &quot;shocking&quot;, &quot;dark and risky&quot;, &quot;bursts&quot;, &quot;could not be more radical&quot;.<br />Marty reminds me of Bainton's biography, which tried to sweep Luther's The Bondage of the Will under the carpet, without so much as mentioning the title.<br />I find it hard to believe that Marty is a Lutheran.  Even when a theologian cannot agree, it is a biographer's duty to faithfully report the facts as they are.<br />As Martin Brecht says, The Bondage of the Will sums up Luther's theology in concentrated form.  The reluctance to discuss this work in full and at length mars an otherwise competent biography.	2004-06-08
US	39352452	R8TRC9TMYCV9X	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Vade mecum to the modern age	For me, the most dramatic - and scariest - part of the whole book is probably on p. 275: \\"Enrico Fermi...was standing at his panoramic office window high in the physics tower [of Columbia University] looking down the gray winter length of Manhattan Island, its streets alive as always with vendors and taxis and crowds.  He cupped his hands as if he were holding a ball. 'A little bomb like that,' he said simply, for once not lightly mocking, 'and it would all disappear.'\\"    This was one day in the winter of 1938/1939, probably in Jan or Feb of 1939.  Fermi was of course referring to the atomic warhead yet to be invented.  Fermi's estimates of the size of the fissile material required to produce such a devastating effect remain as true today in this post-911 age as then.    I entirely agree with Rhodes that the key personality in the whole saga was not Einstein or Oppenheimer or even Fermi but Niels Bohr, who was the godfather to modern nuclear physics, who was the guiding spirit if not a working technician (though Bohr personally solved the neutron-source initiator problem) at Los Alamos, and whose complementarity principle, originally devised to explain quantum mechanics, became applicable to the dilemma of the bomb itself.  Rhodes's emphasis on Bohr's complementarity both surprises and impresses me.    If I'm allowed one criticism, it would be that a timeline of the major developments is missing.	2004-06-01
US	39352452	R1ALFMJFJTJ0R4	0208000968	879464919	Hume's Philosophy of Human Nature.	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Useful guide	On the subject of free will, Laird explains (p. 118-9) that according to Hume, human actions are no less determined than inanimate objects, and what they have in common is what Hume called \\"uniformity\\" - a kind of predictability.  If human actions are far less predictable than, say, the orbit of Mars, that's no different from the unpredictability of the weather despite our great advances in meterology.  Indeed, someday we may predict our earthly weather with incredible precision, but then we can probably never predict exactly when the human race may be wiped out by another giant asteroid. (Of course, by then the human race may have evolved to something quite inhuman.)  Several mass extinctions have occurred in the past due to asteroids and we would be lucky to escape such a fate.  But just because natural phenomena like these are UNPREDICTABLE does not mean they are not DETERMINED.  For all we know another killer asteroid might have been hurtling through outer space head on for Earth for millions of years now.  Given what we know of Earth's natural history, it would be surprising if this were not true.<br />Human actions are as unpredictable as such natural phenomena but no less determined, Hume argued.  The only possible alternative is chance, or complete chaos with no rules whatsoever.  And given these two alternatives, it is clear which one Hume chose.  But many people believe that there should be a third alternative to complete determinism and total contingency, and here lies free will.  Hume rejected this, and so do I.  Laird, however, has difficulties with Hume's position.  <br />I see increasing \\"uniformity\\" in human actions in light of modern knowledge about genes and the brain - what used to be quite unaccountable is now known to be physically explainable, and we have no more free will than a severe schizophrenic in the objective, philosophical sense if not in the moral or legal sense.<br />John Laird, the Regius Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Aberdeen (elected FBA 1933), wrote this book some eight years before Norman Kemp Smith's groundbreaking work on Hume, and it must be reckoned a real classic in its own right.  Kemp Smith's work is somewhat longer, but it also features Hume's quotes to greater lengths.  (This must be what Ayer meant when he wrote that Kemp Smith actually paid attention to what Hume said rather than used Hume as a starting point for his own philosophical babble - which is a fault all too common among other authors, a fault I think Laird does not have.) Otherwise Laird's commentary is comparable to Kemp Smith's in quantity if not in quality.  Kemp Smith himself acknowledged Laird in the very short bibliography in his own work.<br />The following are the chapters: Preface, List of Abbreviations, 1 Introductory, 2 The Principles of Sensory Phenomenalism, 3 Space, Time & External Existence, 4 Causality, Experiment & Induction, 5 Bodies & Mind, 6 Nature & Scepticism, 7 The Passions, 8 Ethics & the Sense of Humanity, 9 Politics, Economic History & Criticism, 10 Religion, Index.  <br />Not surprisingly, the longest chapter is Chapter 4.<br />I wouldn't place this book above Kemp Smith's work but it must be clear that Kemp Smith benefited from fine Hume's studies before him, and Laird's work is one of those.  This is a competent work on Hume's philosophy.	2004-05-30
US	39352452	RYR8MH1EV3TO2	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Infrastructure	One of the wildest claims in this book has to do with the question of infrastructure.  Thurow claims India has better infrastructure than China.  But today the chairman of GE, Jeff Immelt, told his audience in India that they would never catch up with China unless they improve their infrastructure.  Immelt said India lagged behind China in health and in things like airports and roads.  And this, he said, was a major reason why India was a \\"disappointing\\" market for GE.<br />Somebody must be wrong - either the GE chairman or the MIT professor.  There are many other errors in this book, not only in facts and statistics, but also in analysis.  (Another whopper, of the analysis variety: Thurow says that Confucianism and Communism combined to emphasize education in China, and that this is one reason why China is so highly educated for a developing country.  I don't know about Confucianism, but I do know that for years Mao decimated higher education in China, so that at one point college students had the reading ability of a junior high student while junior high students could barely read.)	2004-05-29
US	39352452	RV0DQWFS6WKVD	0374279659	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century	Books	1	1	5	N	N	Invidious comparison	Nobody compared China to the United States...until Bill Emmott himself became the first one to make this suggestion.  That China is not yet even remotely comparable to the US is obvious to everyone.  What is not so obvious is why Bill Emmott calls China &quot;a modest country at best.&quot;<br />If comparisons are warranted, then perhaps China, the fastest rising power, should be contrasted with Britain and Russia, the fast declining ones - weak countries without a trace of modesty.	2004-05-28
US	39352452	R2KI48KZQZ32MU	0393048721	679433773	The Creation of the Modern World: The British Enlightenment	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Comprehensive and well-documented	I'm pretty impressed by the extensive documentation, not just in the bibliography but also in the endnotes. Porter hardly mentioned Ben Franklin, who was after all American.  But as a Briton before 1776 Franklin too was part of the British Enlightenment.<br />Porter placed particular emphasis on the role of Priestley, whom he said is often neglected.  I think Porter was exactly right about Priestley, who was probably as important as Hume, Locke or anyone else to the British Enlightenmnt for advocating free inquiry and truth; let inquiry be free and truth be told though Christianity itself may fall, said Priestley, who was a Christian theologian.  Those were pretty strong words to come out of a preacher in those days when atheism was a crime.<br />The British played as big a role in the Enlightenment as the French.  Of that there can be no doubt after this book.  Americans too made their contribution, as Henry Steele Commager said in his book The Empire of Reason,&quot; but until 1776 this was part of British Enlightenment.	2004-05-13
US	39352452	R1P6SHZCW5BE8Z	0674076133	824425104	The Black Death and the Transformation of the West	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Original & thoughtful, but also some unanswered questions...	Herlihy makes the excellent point that the Black Death strengthened Europe in the long run (meaning over many centuries).  For centuries, Europe had lagged behind China in technology and standard of living.  By the 16th century, Europe was ahead, and has remained so ever since.  What made the difference?  Actually Phil Rushton had suggested something similar as the explanation, but Herlihy expanded on it in this book (though he probably never heard of Rushton).<br />The Black Death killed off something like half of Europe's population within a decade in the mid-14th century.  The short-term destructive effect was incalculable.  But Herlihy argues that those who were left unkilled were suddenly provided with huge resources, both natural and human, and much technical innovation became possible, which in turn launched Europe onto the road to the Industrial Revolution.  As an example - the most dramatic one - he called the Gutenberg printing press a direct result of the Black Death. (p. 50)  Not only was this a major technical innovation, the printing press had a greater influence than, say, a more efficient way to grow food: printing helped disseminate knowledge, even though, at first, most of this knowledge concerned religion and then only later science and technology.<br />Samuel Cohn used the Introduction to criticize Herlihy, which I think is not only odd but in poor taste, because Herlihy was already dead when Cohn wrote it.  Cohn doubted the printing press (and by analogy, Herlihy's other examples) made much difference: far more book were printed many years after Gutenberg, he says, when population growth was surging again.  I think Cohn misses the point: the INVENTION of the Gutenberg printing press was made possible by the Black Death, which made labor costs sky high by killing off many scribes.  That many more books were printed with a fast-increasing population is not surprising: the demand for books increased with headcount.  But Herlihy argues that withoutthe Black Death, Gutenberg might not have had to invent his printing press.  Herlihy's other examples include firearms.<br />Cohn points out that gunpowder and cannons were already known before Black Death.  True enough.  But he cannot convincingly prove that the Black Death didn't create a need for the widespread use of firearms in war.  Cohn raises many other questions.  A tough one is: why didn't the Middle East experience a cultural resurgence after the Black Death, which struck Europe just as hard?  Herlihy has no answer to this.  Cohn also fails the mention the puzzling case of China.  The 14th century was hard on China also - many millions died from epidemics almost identical with the Black Death.  But China started falling behind Europe soon afterwards.  Why did Europe and not China benefit from the Black Death?  (My guess is China suffered less human loss than Europe did, and as a result could not free up more resources to break what Herlihy calls the Malthusian deadlock - the constant growth in population which swallowed up all the benefits of innovation with no real improvement in standards of living and the possibility for revolutionary innovations.)  Also, China had printing with movable type long before Europe did, and this didn't help China much later on.<br />I think there are many other issues and questions to consider how and why Europe advanced so much more quickly after the Black Death than before it.  Surely the Mongol Empire which crumbled around the same time as the Black Death happened had by then transmitted much of China's technology (such as gunpowder and paper) to Europe, which needed time to digest and disseminate.  So the possibility is real that it was the dreaded Mongols who made Europe what it is today, not only by making Chinese technology possible, but also by creating the conditions for the Black Death epidemic itself through its intercontinental trade routes.  The Black Death may have started from central Asia in  Turkestan - intoday's southeastern part of Kazakstan, not far from the Chinese border.  (p. 22-23)  As Herlihy puts it, a certain Mongol khan used dead bodies with the plague to besiege a Black Sea town - one of the first effective uses of biological weapons.  Thanks thus to the Mongols, Europe suffered the Black Death only to benefit from it enormously in the long run.  I only wish this book were not so short, so that Herlihy could have been more specific as to why he thought so.  Still this is the only effort I know of which makes this suggestion.	2004-05-13
US	39352452	R2CF9W5N7UQXU8	0738204471	765454390	The Voice Of Genius: Conversations With Nobel Scientists And Other Luminaries	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting &amp; informative	There are shortcomings in this book.  I absolutely agree with the previous reviewer: First, the interviewer (the author) is untrained in even the basics of science, and some of his questions are silly.  (The most hilarious example I can think of is when Brian asked Bethe how close do you have to get to the Sun, like in a spacecraft, before being pulled into it by its gravity.  Bethe's answer: Long before that happens, you'll be burned to dust by the heat.  He dryly added, &quot;I never thought of such a question.&quot;  Talk about stupidity.)  The other fault is Brian's interest in the paranormal.  Few of the scientists he interviewed share this, although Jastrow did say that really advanced beings on othernets might be able to communicate by means which we would classify as ESP.  For this fascinating subject, Brian should have talked to Brian Josephson, the Nobel laureate in Physics who happens to be obsessed with the paranormal (surely the only Nobelist in the world with this unique distinction).<br />  The most interesting parts of these interviews concern the scientists' religious views.  And indeed this is the key strength of this book which in my opinion redeems its faults.  This book is worth the reading for this alone if for nothing else.<BR>  <BR>If Brian thinks about a second edition, I'd strongly urge him to consider interviewing Steven Weinberg, Alan Guth, Brian Greene, Martin Rees, John Schwarz and Edward Witten.  <br />Witten especially.  There is almost universal consensus nowadays that Witten is the most influential physicist since Einstein, perhaps since Newton even. Indeed, in physics Witten is equal to Einstein and superior to Newton, while in mathematical contribution Witten is equal to Newton and superior to Einstein.  Where Newton beats both Einstein and Witten, it would be in astronomy (neither Einstein nor Witten is an astronomer); and where Einstein beats Newton and Witten, it would be in his impact as a philosopher.  Einstein was a philosopher not only in his knowledge of philosophy but also for the huge effect relativity has on philosophy itself - a point not lost on Bertrand Russell and other professional philosophers.  As a theoretical physicist, Witten is perhaps &quot;purer&quot; than both Newton and Einstein because he is no philosopher, unlike Einstein, and because he doesn't waste his time on dumb things like alchemy and chronology (making prophecies from a literal and careful study of the Old Tesatment &amp; other scriptures), which cost Newton more time than physics, math, and astronomy combined.  Witten's religious and philosophical views are of great interest.  Since no one seems to have found these out and written about them, it would be a great scoop for any journalist to do so.  (Witten once refused giving &quot;personal details&quot; to a writer from Scientific American - not even what his college major was at Brandeis! - but with growing fame and honors he might have mellowed a bit.  Let's hope so, or else Witten would have another thing in common with Newton (but not with Einstein): a prickly and difficult personality.)	2004-05-05
US	39352452	RAVWMU9673IHS	0374279659	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Disappointing	This book is not data-dense &amp; the writing style is very bland. No real or novel insights.	2004-05-04
US	39352452	R2LKP91C7RRN9S	0631201327	447918009	A Brief History of Western Philosophy	Books	1	5	23	N	N	Should be briefer!	On p. 309 there is this sentence: &quot;It is not a matter of doubt that we possess free will.&quot;  Quite apart from the fact that this fundamental question in philosophy is answered in the negative by the great philosophers of whom Kenny should have more than a nodding acquaintance - Hobbes, Spinoza, Hume, Kant, Schopenhauer - this breathtakingly irresponsible statement of personal values, which should have no place in a HISTORY of philosophy, does not come with any explanation from Kenny just why he thinks so.  It is clear that for personal ideological (i.e., religious) reasons, Kenny inserts this sentence into the text as though this were a settled discussion.  He even dares to claim no philosophers or scientists have been able to answer the puzzle over free will and determinism.  Like Einstein didn't express a single opinion on this subject, when in fact he expressed it many times!  Kenny's stupidity is mind-boggling.  Perhaps I expect too much from a professor spoon-fed on medieval scholasticism.  Kenny ought to find himself a regius professorship of divinity, and devote more time to research into ignorance.	2004-04-15
US	39352452	R1L8DPGUICI4SC	0815751354	65854925	Integrating China into the Global Economy	Books	5	4	10	N	N	A useful guide	China surpassed Japan in 2003 to become America's 3rd largest trade partner, after Canada and Mexico.  Indeed, it won't be long - a couple of years at most - before China overtakes Mexico's position.  In addition, China is already the world's 4th largest merchandise trader after the US, EU and Japan, and one of the top leading overall (merchandise plus services) trading nations of the world.  By the end of this decade, perhaps before then, China will take over Japan's place as the world's 3rd largest overall trader in both merchandise and services - an astonishing performance for a country which practically did zero trade with the rest of the world only 25 years ago.<br />Policy-makers and businesspeople everywhere, and in America especially, need to sit up and listen to the sound, balanced, non-partisan, and cool-headed analysis by one of the world's leading experts on China and its role in the global trading system.  And his name is Nicholas Lardy of the Brookings Institution.	2004-02-05
US	39352452	R19YT5N40YOLB3	0415165202	704386806	Behind East Asian Growth: The Political and Social Foundations of Prosperity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good book (despite poor timing)	When this book came out, Asia was being hit with the financial crisis.  This event is therefore not mentioned.  So in a sense this book is out of date.  However, it remains relevant.  Not only does this book explain East Asia's success until 1998, but many of the underlying causes for that success have remained in place after 1998.  This is especially true of China, which receives relatively scant coverage in this book (and is thus an excellent topic for a sequel, if any).  <br />Chapters 1 and 15 (overview and conclusion) by Rowen are excellent, as is ch. 7 by Stevenson on Asian education.	2004-02-02
US	39352452	R3JS4IUP1DW5TJ	1400061946	899669555	An End to Evil: How to Win the War on Terror	Books	2	6	16	N	N	An End to Evil is a good start, but....	Common sense requires that if America takes \\"the toughest line\\" (in their words) on every issue and in every part of the world, America cannot take the strongest and most effective action anywhere.  In Iraq alone the US military is stretched to the breaking point on personnel, in part because of its needs to maintain large deployments in Europe, South Korea and Japan.   You have to make some choices and concentrate on those that really matter. <br />That's why Reagan supported the Taliban and Saddam when the USSR and Iran were America's enemies. <br />Now America has new enemies, yet America's needs for friends remain as acute as ever.  But the authors of this book prefer to view the whole world as either vassals, enemies, or potential enemies.  They seem to say: If you're not with us, you're against us, and if you're with us, you must do as we say.  After a while, America will be left without friends.  That kind of thinking is self-defeating and not very realistic.<br />Bottom line: Statesmanship requires flexibility, elasticity, and pragmatism, not just \\"the toughest line\\" everywhere.  You have to be willing to shake some hands even if it means holding your nose while doing it.  Reagan showed he was capable of this.  Frum and Perle are showing they are not.	2004-01-24
US	39352452	R2RN5VASUP1NOY	9264161805	619630841	Chinese Economic Performance in the Long Run (Development Centre Studies)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	GDP (2)	I should add that in the five years since this book came out, China's economy has been growing at an average 7% per year.  Since 2001 the pace has accelerated, and the Chinese economic engine is now firing on all cylinders, delivering a phenomenal performance which combines high GDP growth with low inflation.  Maddison's projection is about to be fulfilled ahead of schedule.	2004-01-24
US	39352452	R24T18T5YOJIF7	081293251X	287616898	Remade in America: How Asia Will Change Because America Boomed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Prophetic (2)	Jim Rohwer could not have known how right he was.<br />The blistering pace of economic growth in China has really accelerated in the couple of years since this book came out.  China is now firing on all cylinders, delivering a phenomenal performance which combines high GDP growth with low inflation, unlike in the first decade of reform, which suffered from rampant inflation.  FDI into China is now at an all time high, projected to exceed $60 billion in 2004.  In 2003, electricity production is up 14% (the average in the preceding 10 years was 7.8%).  Industrial production is up something like 15%, while oil consumption is up at least 30%.  GDP growth for all of 2003 was revised upwards to 9.1%, and the 4th quarter of 2003 was up 9.9% year on year, meaning the economy speeded up in 2003.  Western estimates, made by Morgan Stanley, CSFB, Goldman Sachs, and others, are beginning to believe that the Chinese government's official data are now UNDER-estimating real GDP growth, which, based on a broad basket of economic indicators, should be in the double-digits.<br />Thus, China is growing at two-and-a-half times America's rate of 4%.  Maybe more.  In the next decade this amazing performance may not be able to sustain itself.  But China can still hope to grow at twice America's rate on avereage until 2020 or 2025, which is what Jim Rohwer expected.  <br />By then, China's economy will be the world's third largest, and if the yuan rises in value in the meantime, China's nominal GDP will be bigger than Japan's and thus the second largest in the world.  In PPP, however, China will be larger than America.  Overall, China is going to be the second largest economy in the world in 20 years' time.<br />China could never get there unless its methods are &quot;remade in America.&quot;	2004-01-24
US	39352452	RW0PUEQOTAO0H	9264161805	619630841	Chinese Economic Performance in the Long Run (Development Centre Studies)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	GDP	Maddison predicts a low GDP growth rate for China - 5.5% per year for the next two decades or so, which is lower than most Western estimates.  But he also concludes that China's gross GDP in PPP terms will be equal to America's by 2015, on the basis of this low rate.<br />This is a bit of a surprise to me, since Gregory Chow, the Princeton econometrist, believes that China will reach America's level only by 2020 - but on the assumption of 7%.<br />I have second thoughts about Maddison's figures.  Some of them don't match from one table to the next.<br />Interestingly, Richard N. Cooper, the Harvard economist and China specialist, discounts the PPP altogether and prefers to calculate on the basis of nominal exchange rates.  He predicts China's GDP will be worth under one-quarter America's by 2020. (And yes, he accepts Chow's 7%, as well as about 3% for the US.) This is in line with the US Dept of Energy's forecasts: 23% of US by 2020, then 26% by 2025, based on 6.2% for China and 3% for the US, which I think are reasonable estimates.<br />For those of us who think one-quarter of US GDP is unimpressive, this is certainly true as long as we keep in mind that by 2025, Japan's GDP will be worth just 35% America's - and that Japan will still be the second largest economy in the world (unless the EU is counted as one, in which case it could be larger than America).  At 25% of America's GDP, China will be the third largest economy, just after Japan.  (Of course, if the EU is counted as one, China will be 4th, Japan 3rd, and America 2nd, and so on for everybody else.)<br />Maddison is quite right that historically China had the largest economy in the world.  He estimates that China's population has always been almost twice the size of Europe's, while China's per capita income has been similar to Europe's until about 1300's.  (I'm not sure about that, but that's another point.)  Therefore, China's gross GDP must have been much bigger than any European economy's.  His historical tables, dating back to the year 0, show some very exact calculations which one must take with a grain of salt.  (I mean, how does he know with such exactitude?)<br />In a larger sense, Maddison is right.  Alone among the great ancient civilizations (Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, India, Greece and Rome, etc.), China is a &quot;Great Power&quot; today.  And of all the &quot;Great Powers&quot; today, only China can aspire to become America's rival in the foreseeable future.<br />By the way, it is an interesting question why Japan, whose per capita PPP was 10% America's just after World War II (according to Lester Thurow), leapt to America's par by 1990.  Japan managed to achieve this feat (impressive indeed) in 45 years, while China, whose per capita PPP happens to be also 10% America's, will rise to maybe one-quarter America's in PPP and much less than that in nominal GDP, by 2025 - 46 years after economic reform begain in 1979?  The answer may be that Japan has been modernizing since 1867, while China did not begin until 1949.  So China is 80 years behind Japan in this sense.  So it may not be till the end of the 21st century or the beginning of the 22nd when China finally reaches the standard of living of the West.  By then, China will once again be the world's sole superpower, resuming its historical position.  One or two hundred years may seem like a long time for a young country like America or Canada, but for the Chinese, whose history is ten times as long as America's, one century feels like one decade to Americans, and that is not a long time in national terms.	2004-01-18
US	39352452	R31AEWL36JJ647	9287012334	340686101	World Trade Organization Annual Report 2003	Books	5	0	0	N	N	China: Trading Giant	The 2002 trade statistics are very instructive.  In total (exports + imports) merchandise trade, China did $621 billion, about 6% of the world total.  That might not sound like much until you consider that Japan's share is only 8%.  Indeed, if the EU is counted as one unit (thus intra-EU trade is not counted), then China is the world's fourth largest trading nation, after the US, EU and Japan, in merchandise.  China's 20% a year growth means the country will overtake Japan's #3 position in two to three years.<br />If both goods and services are counted, then China did about $702 billion of trade in 2002.  That's a lot less than America's $2,382 billion.  (But Japan's figure is only $922 billion.)  Since there are no figures for extra-EU trade in services, China was, in both goods and services, the world's SIXTH largest trader, after the US, Germany, Japan, Britain, and France, in that order.  China can beat Japan in no more than three years if it continues this phenomenal rate of growth.<br />So that leaves China as the world's number three trading nation, after the US and Germany, OR after the EU and the US, in a couple of years. (China's growth in services trade is a strong 13% - services trade is a lot smaller than goods trade for all countries except Luxembourg.)<br />Not a bad performance for a country which only 25 years ago did next to no trade with the outside world.	2004-01-17
US	39352452	R17L9TU9DKGW4F	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Forecasts	Thurow says China is not going to be an economic power of any importance except perhaps in the \\"distant\\" future.  I beg to differ.<br />In the International Energy Outlook 2003 published by the Energy Information Administration of the US Department of Energy, China's GDP is projected to be $5,085 billion in 2025 - the third largest in the world after the US and Japan, and considerably larger than Germany's $3,811 billion, France ($2,781 billion), Britain ($2,528 billion), or India ($1,775 billio).  And these figures are in nominal GDP in constant 1997 dollars and assume the exchange rates to be unchanged.<br />Will the world's third largest economy not be considered an economic powerhouse except perhaps in the \\"distant\\" future, as Thurow asserts?  To put it in perspective, Germany is the world's third largest economy today, and yet its nominal GDP is only 25% America's (about $2.5 trillion).  Few people would dispute that Germany is an economic powerhouse, small as it is.<br />To be sure, America will still be much bigger than everyone else (except for the EU): $19,285 billion.  Japan in 2025 will only be worth $6,680 billion - a bit bigger than China and still far behind the US.  (Japan will be one third the size of America, but then Japan's population will likely be only one third as large as America's - or less.)<br />China's $5 trillion will be just over one-quarter America's GDP.  But this assumes China's renminbi to remain the same and not to rise - an unlikely prospect.  Also, in purchasing power parity, China's $5 trillion can easily balloon to $20 trillion (based on today's PPP calculations) in 2025, thus making China's real gross GDP to be slightly larger than America's by the end of the first quarter-century of the 21st century.  <br />How Thurow can claim that China will not matter economically from now to the end of this century is beyond me.  It is absurd. To repeat, by 2025 China will have the third largest economy in the world in GDP based on exchange rates, and the largest economy in the world in GDP based on PPP.  In 2025!  Now, if this is \\"distant future,\\" wait till you see China's share of world GDP continues to grow after 2025, even at a lowering rate.  It is almost certain that China will take the lead from the US both in nominal GDP and in PPP before this century is out, if not in per capita income.  <br />Thurow argues that only the per capita income counts.  I have trouble accepting this.  If you're the biggest guy on the block, you start making the rules, even if you don't wear fancy clothes like the smaller guys.  In the real world, absolute size matters as much as per capita income; otherwise Luxembourg instead of the US should be considered the superpower.<br />Books written by Professor Gregory Chow of Princeton and Professor Angus Maddison of the OECD draw the same conclusion about China's future PPP figures.  The US Department of Energy and Professor Richard Cooper of Harvard base their projections on nominal GDP.  All four predicts China's growth rate to be twice that of the US for the next two decades.  The first two decide that China's PPP will equal America's by 2020.  The latter two decide that China's nominal GDP will be the world's THIRD largest by 2020 (not 2025), as long as components of the EU are counted as separate economies.  (Otherwise the EU will be #1, America #2, Japan #3, China #4, Brazil/India #5, etc. in nominal GDP, and the EU will be #1, China #2, America #3, Japan #4, etc. etc. in PPP.)<br />In each case, the implication is the same: China is going to be a BIG deal soon enough for most of us if not for Thurow.  This is what Margaret Thatcher means when she writes that China is \\"undoubtedly on course to become an economic superpower\\" (\\"Statecraft\\").  This is what Paul Wolfowitz meant when he told the Washington Times that China is going to become a superpower in the next quarter-century to half-century, adding \\"and that's pretty fast by historical standards.\\"  This is whatJack Welch of GE means when he writes that China is going to wield enormous influence in this century, and warns managers \\"doing pie charts\\" to \\"leave half the pie open for the Chinese\\" (\\"Jack: Straight from the Gut\\").  And this is also what Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore, Ora Namir (former Israeli Minister of Labor), and Jeffrey Garten, Dean of Yale School of Management, mean when they proclaim today's China to be \\"the second most important country in the world.\\" (Various news sources)	2004-01-17
US	39352452	R1ZQGRGVKPXAOY	9264161805	619630841	Chinese Economic Performance in the Long Run (Development Centre Studies)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	China: 2015	Using both a quantitative comparative study of international economies, and a historical survey of China's economic history over the past two thousand years, Maddison concludes that China will be the same size as the United States in gross GDP (in Purchasing Power Parity) in 2015.<br />Gregory Chow of Princeton University reaches a similar conclusion in his book &quot;China's Economic Transformation,&quot; except that he puts 2020 instead of 2015 as the year of parity.<br />Maddison discounts the Chinese official GDP growth rates of 10% in 1978-95; he believes 7.5% as the most realistic.  Yet he is more, not less, optimistic about China than Chow.<br />Interestingly, Maddison puts the GDP growth rates for the US in 1978-95 at 2.5% - one third of China's.  This is in line with my estimate that China has been growing at three times the rate as America in the past quarter century.  Maddison also believes that the growth rates for China will slow to 5% or thereabouts in the next two decades.  This is also in agreement with my estimate that China will grow at twice the rate as the US for that period.  <br />Table 2.2a, &quot;Shares of World GDP, 1700-1995&quot; is fascinating.  It shows that China was the world's largest economy as late as 1820; Europe as a whole accounted for 26.6% of the world as opposed to China's 32.4%.  China was as big as Europe and the US (only 1.8%!!) and Russia (4.8%) put together.  In 1995 China had 10.9% of the world GDP, about half as much as the US (20.9%).  This table also claims that in 1952, Europe had 29.7% - more than America's 28.4%.  That I find unbelievable.  In the first years after World War II America had at least 40% of the world GDP while Europe was still just recovering.<br />Maddison did not give the figures, but China could well double its current share of world GDP (12%) to 24% in 2020 as its economy quadruples in the next two decades. Maddison thinks China will only triple in size in that period (that's what 5% does).   America retains 24% until 2020, although that's unlikely as its share has been dropping in the last few decades (due primarily to Europe's and Japan's recovery).  America's 24% (if that much) will continue to shrink as China continues to lead America in growth - and India leads China - after 2020.	2004-01-15
US	39352452	R2FH977FOXYBBX	0805069593	406845946	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: The American Presidents Series: The 32nd President, 1933-1945	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A much-needed introduction	The frustration expressed by the previous reviewer that a new full-length biography of FDR is needed is in fact answered by Conrad Black's massive biography out this year, at the same time of this book.  It is fascinating that Lord Jenkins of Hillhead, a Liberal (former Labor) member of the British House of Lords, comes to a very similar conclusion about FDR as does Lord Black of Crossharbour: that FDR was one of the top three presidents of all time.  Jenkins puts it very clearly from the start: \\"In any rating of presidents there could be no more than three of his predecessors who could be placed in contention with him, and of his successors there are so far none.\\" (p. 1) It is important to remember that Reagan, one of the most successful and popular presidents in the postwar period, himself admired FDR all his life.    FDR did not live to see the end of the war, but he saw the wings of victory (as Churchill put it).  Jenkins did not live to complete this short book, though he finished 148 out of 173 pages, leaving the last 25 pages to the eminent presidential historian, Richard Neustadt, whose competence and perspective did not let Jenkins or Schlesinger down.    This book is a contrast with Black's in length, but not in quality.  In each case the judgment of the author surpasses the originality of the research, and yet both are highly-recommended.	2004-01-12
US	39352452	R2UNLXP4M8FH3H	0631189491	835527299	Genghis Khan: His Life and Legacy	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Fine biography	Westerners are often shocked to hear that in Mongolia today, Genghis is revered as a national hero and the father of the country.  Indeed, even in China - a victim of the Mongols - Genghis is regarded as a great man.  Not China's great man, of course, but a great man nevertheless.  I know, speaking as an ethnic Chinese myself.  By contrast, Europeans know Genghis as something like a cross between a medieval Hitler and Anti-Christ.<br />This book is indeed a little confusing, given all those proper names.  Despite its conciseness, it is not written for the casual reader.  I confess I have trouble understanding it.  I advise those of us who are not experts in Asian history to read the relevant chapters in Frederick Mote's \\"Imperial China,\\" which I think is very instructive on the Mongol period, and has a good deal to say about Timujin (Genghis) himself, from his ancestry and birth on.	2004-01-06
US	39352452	R2PVD08DZ6HLCN	0333945050	433025102	The Enlightenment (Studies in European History)	Books	5	3	10	N	N	Impressive, but...	It appears that Roy Porter has a full-length book on British Enlightenment published by Penguin, and my review refers to that book and not this one, although both have the same title.	2004-01-06
US	39352452	R2328B3KDGKHOQ	0333945050	433025102	The Enlightenment (Studies in European History)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Impressive	130 pages of endnotes in fine print for under 500 pages of text, plus another 77 pages (again in fine print) of bibliography, and then a full index - this book is a scholar's dream.  Yet its easy style is aimed at a wide readership too.<br />Who can doubt the seminal role of Britain in the Enlightenment?  The French may have started it.  But Britain carried the movement forward.  I'm impressed by the evidence.<br />Porter gives prominent place to the roles of Hume, Locke, and especially Priestley, with justice.  Also mentioned are Gibbon, Swift, Malthus, and Samuel Johnson, and of course Adam Smith.  Ben Franklin was a giant of the Enlightenment, but not of BRITISH Enlightenment, although he spent many adult years living in London, and knew many of these men.  (Indeed Franklin brought Priestley over to America.)  So Franklin is not covered in depth here. He was American.<br />This is the kind of book I'd love to read on the couch in many a long Canadian winter night.  I also recommend Jenny Uglow's \\"The Lunar Men,\\" which covers similar but not the same ground (and has much to say about Priestley too, who was also a \\"Lunar Man\\")	2004-01-05
US	39352452	R1YUYPSCL9TBIR	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Export strategy	It wasn't too long ago that Gunnar Myrdal, the Nobel Laureate in Economics, concluded that it was not possible for Asia to export its way out of poverty.  He wrote just when Japan was taking off as an exports giant.  Lester Thurow faults China for its dependence on exports for economic growth, seeing it as a dead alley.  He is wrong for two reasons.  First, this strategy makes sense for China for now because of its vast cheap but hardworking (&amp; fast-learning) labor force.  What else could China be doing to grow?  The Soviet model?  China already tried that.  Let's do what the Japanese and Taiwanese have been doing with success.  Second, this strategy is only temporary.  Once China has reached a certain stage in development, its labor force will begin to produce for its own consumers instead.  The United States certainly did not rely on exports for economic growth in the 19th century.  And I may add that China, the world's most successful economy for three thousand years (read Margaret Thatcher's &quot;Statecraft&quot; for those of you who dispute this), did very little trade with the outside world historically.  Its famed silk trade added next to nothing to its domestic economy, even during its height in the 9th century AD.  China stayed rich simply because its people worked hard.  Thurow would learn more economics if he would only read more history - a typical problem when it comes to economists.	2004-01-03
US	39352452	R3MEHGF9S2QIXY	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Per capita GDP	At no point did the Soviet Union achieve a per capita GDP anywhere near that of the United States.  Even today Russia's per capita income in PPP is less than 30% America's per capita income - much less in nominal GDP.  Yet the USSR was a great power.  When China becomes the world's largest economy, its per capita income doesn't matter simply because no international institution can change its rules without Chinese consent.  Nor can Washington ignore China simply because of China's low per capita income.  No military domination is required.   As for Pawley's ethnic slur, what else can I expect from someone from South Africa?	2004-01-02
US	39352452	R1SRDIEMFI79BA	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Per capita GDP	At no point did the Soviet Union achieve a per capita GDP anywhere near that of the United States.  Even today Russia's per capita income in PPP is less than 30% America's per capita income - much less in nominal GDP.  Yet the USSR was a great power.  When China becomes the world's largest economy, its per capita income doesn't matter simply because no international institution can change its rules without Chinese consent.  Nor can Washington ignore China simply because of China's low per capita income.  No military domination is required.   As for Pawley's ethnic slur, what else can I espect from someone from South Africa?	2004-01-02
US	39352452	R8QINZ90V9DPC	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	3	4	8	N	N	China's GDP	Thurow is quite mistaken when he projects China's and America's per capita GDP this way: <br />&quot;In 2000,&quot; writes Thurow, &quot;China's per capita GDP was $847 using exchange rates to convert yuan to dollars.  America's was $36,868......China may become an important economic power in the future, but that future is distant.  To demonstrate this latter point to yourself, take out your hand calculator and key in both China's per capita GDP and America's per capita GDP......Unless you key in something quite unlikely for China's growth rate over the next century, you will find that in 2100 China will still have a per capita GDP far below that of the United States.&quot; (p.205)<br />There are several things wrong with this reasoning.  First of all, Thurow has forgotten that currency exchange rates change over time.  Since the yuan is undervalued (this is the consensus of most economists), it is likely to rise versus the dollar.  No one can predict how far it will go one hundred years from now.  China's income gap with the US will be quickly narrowed as much by a rising yuan as by actual income growth.<br />Second, one century is a long time, and Japan caught up with America in far less.  (Thurow himself acknowledges this on p. 196: &quot;Because of the economic reversals of World War II, Japan's per capita income had fallen to less than 10 per cent of that of the United States in 1950.  By 1989 Japan had a per capita income above that of the United States in currency terms ($36,966 versus $25,980)...&quot;   It doesn't take a stretch of the imagination to think that what the Japanese managed to do the Chinese can easily repeat, if only by a different route (such as less dependence on exporting).  Japan's WW2 reversals are similar to China's reversals under Mao.  <br />Third, Thurow is using the nominal GDP rather than the PPP, which reflects real income.<br />As for the claim that China's per capita income will still lag behind America's by 2100, I'm prepared toagree, just as I accept Thurow's statement that a &quot;Chinese Century,&quot; if any, will be in the 22nd and not the 21st century.  However, the notion that China's economy will only be &quot;probably&quot; larger than America's by 2100 cannot entertained, as China's gross GDP is already projected to equal America's by 2020 in PPP terms and not long afterwards in nominal terms (depending again on the exchange rates) - EVEN ALLOWING FOR SLOWING GROWTH.  (Gregory Chow, &quot;China Economic Transformation,&quot; 2002)  By 2100, China's economy is unlikely to be less than TWICE America's (and probably far larger than that).<br />Thurow also errs when he faults China for its huge trade surpluses. (p. 211)  While China is indeed running trade surpluses with the US, China's overall trade balances are in the red (or close to zero).  This is well-known.  Thurow's knowledge of China obviously is amateurish.  He may be right that the money may be better spent on expansionary fiscal spending, fixing unemployment, etc. but the large foreign currency reserves have their own logic, as the stability of China's economy is of paramount importance (even more so than growth). If &quot;it does not make any sense&quot; to Thurow, it certainly does make sense to such great economists as Joseph Stiglitz and Robert Mundell, both of whom write intelligently about China (besides being Nobel Laureates).  Thurow should at least read Jim Rohwer and Nicholas Lardy before pontificating on a subject he knows so little about.	2003-11-29
US	39352452	R3DQTAB2PQLKGU	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A somewhat timid picture (part 2)	...This is an entertaining book on international economics, though perhaps for the wrong reasons.	2003-11-28
US	39352452	R3TUSMR02M969R	0060523654	44208978	Fortune Favors the Bold: What We Must Do to Build a New and Lasting Global Prosperity	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A somewhat timid picture	Much of this book has nothing to do with China; yet Thurow has a good deal to say about China in this book.  Having followed Thurow over the years on his various comments on China, I have reluctantly concluded that just about everything he has had to say about China has turned out to be unfortunately wrong.<br />Thurow it was who declared that SARS would get out of control in China and that it would be necessary to quarantine the whole country from the rest of the world.  This is just one example, but you get the idea.  Thurow does not disappoint me in this book.<br />Here in this book Thurow thinks China's gross GDP will &quot;probably&quot; be larger than America's by 2100. Maybe he didn't read the book by Gregory Chow, the Princeton econometrist, who calculates that China's GDP in PPP will be equal to America's by 2020.<br />Now, since nobody knows what the currency exchange rates will be in the future, the PPP (Purchasing Power Parity in constant dollars) is the only reliable guide for comparison.  It is likely that China's gross nominal GDP will still be smaller than America's by 2020.  But that is unlikely to last long.  China's economy will be larger than America's LONG BEFORE 2100. <br />Thurow emphasizes that the gross GDP doesn't matter in any case; only the per capita GDP does.  While I tend to agree with his prediction that China's per capita GDP will still lag America's by 2100, I have trouble understanding his statement that the gross GDP is &quot;irrelevant.&quot;  I'm prepared to excuse this on the fact that he is writing merely as an economist.  But no historian would make this mistake.  After all, the USSR was a threat precisely because its economic base was large enough to sustain big military spending, not because its per capita income was anywhere near that of the of the United States.<br />Still, this book makes good reading because Thurow makes his arguments and reasoning pretty clear (and this is typical of him).   I would urge other readersto bear in mind that even Nobel Laureates in Economics have violently disagreed with one another, and that FDR once wished he could find a one-armed economist......just so that he (or she) could not say &quot;on the other hand.&quot;	2003-11-26
US	39352452	R1036W5O4Q86FU	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extraordinary	Rhodes's command of the technical details is equally matched by his superb biographical sketches and philosophical insights.  The result is very satisfying.<br />The hero of the whole saga is rightly Niels Bohr, and Rhodes demonstrates his competence by his emphasis on Bohr's complementarity, with respect to both quantum theory and the use of the Bomb itself.<br />If there is a tiny error in this book, it is perhaps his neglect of the role played by Maria Goeppert-Mayer, who was one of the finest US nuclear physicists of that generation.  Although this Nobel Laureate played a relatively minor part in the making of the Bomb, her role was anything but negligible.  (Incidentally, the other two women who were important to the story, Curie and Meitner, are well covered.)<br />This has long been one of my favorite books of all time.	2003-11-23
US	39352452	RO8LYMCD6030T	0743452607	633454625	Space: The Next Business Frontier	Books	1	6	17	N	N	This book is junk	Lou Dobbs is a national embarrassment.  He obviously doesn't know how to think straight, as this book clearly shows.  It is totally unrealistic.   Space is not the next business frontier unless we are willing to hand over the satellite launch business and space tourism business to the low-cost and reliable Chinese.  And that's something Dobbs does not realize in his wildest fantasy.  This guy has zero imagination and clearly doesn't know how to make money.  I wish I could give it zero star as it doesn't deserve any.   The author of this book belongs in a lunatic asylum.	2003-11-19
US	39352452	R2ZWGI7CG2VA43	0743423895	633454625	Space: The Next Business Frontier	Books	1	2	15	N	N	China: the Next Hope for Space	Lou does not have the wits to realize that China is the only hope for future space business.  Otherwise his scheme is totally out of this world.  Save your money - don't buy this book.	2003-11-18
US	39352452	R1IX07AOOOHREE	0679744088	466363748	Dreams of a Final Theory: The Scientist's Search for the Ultimate Laws of Nature	Books	5	15	24	N	N	I like this book	Two chapters stand out to my mind: &quot;Against Philosophy&quot; and &quot;What about God?&quot;  Weinberg makes a convincing case that philosophy has made little contribution to objective truth.  He also says that he knows of no important scientist in the post-war period who has been substantially influenced by philosophy.  One has to be careful here with the word &quot;post-war&quot; because it is well-known that people like Einstein and Heisenberg were very interested in philosophy.  As to the chapter on religion, who is better qualified to talk about it than a great physicist like Weinberg who understands the origin of the universe better than almost anybody alive?  He makes a forceful case for atheism (though he does not use this term).  My only regret is that he doesn't encourage violence against religious fundamentalists and extremists, who are always prepared to use violence to advance their agenda.<br />Incidentally, Weinberg's belief that a final theory is near is too optimistic.  Martin Rees has got it right: The advancement of science is like fractals - every little detail can be further enlarged to reveal far more, ad infinitum.  Thus, the search for scientifc truth must be endless, and the dreams for a final theory are no more than that.	2003-11-15
US	39352452	RQ0U6X9S0S6DS	1586481843	626448035	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom	Books	5	20	33	N	N	Black: Champion of FDR	Here in his native Canada Conrad Black is famous - or notorious - for being a foaming-at-the-mouth right wing fanatic whose voice is much bigger than his wallet.  Like Donald Trump he loves the limelight.  So it came as a bit of a surprise to find him defending, indeed praising, FDR in this bulky book.  But then I said Conrad Black loves attention, right?<br />I happen to think his heart is in the right place this time, whatever his personal motives.  After all, FDR saved not just democracy but capitalism itself.  The idea that FDR did well out of his bargain with Stalin might shock some conservatives.  But there is really nothing really wrong with this one either: What else could he or anyone else have done with Stalin's Red Army, which after all got to Berlin first?  No Russian leader in his right mind - let alone a monster like Stalin - would have left Eastern Europe without a fight, which is why Tsar Alexander paid for his mistake with his life.  FDR was wise to leave Uncle Joe alone for the time being, as Black makes clear.<br />Not a bad book after all.	2003-11-11
US	39352452	R1N7FVUMWGE7BV	0837173787	950209926	Charles Darwin: Evolution by Natural Selection (British Men of Science Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A real gem	I was very lucky to find this little book in a used bookstore.  Readers who can't get this book from Amazon.com may have to go to the library instead.<br />Sir Gavin De Beer, an eminent embryologist at University College London, was also a Darwinian scholar of distinction.  This book strikes a good balance between Darwin's life and Darwin's thought.  Though this book is 40 years old, I don't think there is a better treatment of the subject in a book of comparable size.  The biographies by Browne, and Desmond and Moore are mandatory of course but this little book has a unique place of its own.<br />I end this review with Darwin's philosophy, expressed in some of the most fascinating lines from his personal Notebook and quoted in this book:<br />&quot;We can allow satellites, planets, suns, universe, nay whole system of universe to be governed by laws, but the smallest insect we wish to be created at once by special act, provided with its instincts, its place in nature, its range, etc.&quot;<br />&quot;Why is thought being a secretion of brain more wonderful than gravity a property of matter?&quot;<br />&quot;Free will is to mind what chance is to matter; it is our arrogance, our admiration of ourselves.&quot;<br />&quot;Chance governs the descent of a farthing, free will determines our throwing it up.&quot;<br />&quot;It may be doubted whether a man intentionally can wag his finger from real caprice, it is chance which way it will be, but yet it is settled by reason.&quot;<br />&quot;A train of throught action &amp;c. will arise from physical action on the brain.&quot;<br />The amazing fact is that Darwin was writing when our knowledge of the brain and genetics was still sketchy.  Darwin was a prophet of genius.	2003-11-04
US	39352452	R40EI5NO6H3UB	0691115699	775224357	Dostoevsky: The Mantle of the Prophet, 1871-1881	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Antisemitic Prophet?	Not until in this the fifth and final volume of Frank's biographical look at Dostoevsky's books is the issue of antisemitism fully dealt with, and good heavens what PASSIM references there are!  Finally, Dostoevsky's introduction of the blood libel myth into The Brothers Karamazov got on Frank's nerves (I don't know if Frank is Jewish though): \\"[T]hat Dostoevsky should have introduced such material at all, no matter how topical it may have been, leaves a permanent stain on his reputation that nothing can efface.....NOW, he gives the widest possible circulation to this age-old vilification, first used in classical antiquity against the early Christians themselves.\\" (p. 670)  <br />Yet Frank's words for the book itself include: \\"genius,\\" \\"grandeur,\\" \\"poetic power,\\" \\"symbolic elevation,\\" \\"a monumental power of self-expression to his characters which rivals that of Dante's sinners and saints, Shakespeare's titanic heroes and villains, and Milton's gods and archangels....with the same superhuman majesty as the figures of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel.\\"  To save ink Frank might as well compare The Brothers Karamazov to the Old Testament.  (This would be appropriate as Christianity is a leitmotif in Dostoevsky's works.)<br />Such a brilliant book! (Dostoevsky's, that is.)  Little wonder that Einstein, someone I admire very much, also liked it a lot, antisemitism notwithstanding.<br />Frank's biographical criticism runs to almost 3,000 pages from Volume I-V.  I'd hoped at least 300 of those pages would be devoted to The Brothers Karamazov (Dostoevsky's masterpiece) but I got half that number.<br />The \\"mantle of prophet\\" which Frank refers to of course has nothing to do with antisemitism: He means that Dostoevsky was, even more than Pushkin, the prophet of the Russian radical spirit.<br />A long time will pass before another definitive work on Dostoevsky supersedes this multi-volume masterpiece.	2003-10-14
US	39352452	R2JBNXZO8Y3S3P	0226106330	838919558	Marlborough: His Life and Times, Book One	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Other issues	Marlborough was a courtier all his life, with all the risks that came with such a position - in the end he paid for royal disfavor. Not even falling on his knees - he could have knocked two holes on the marble floor - made much difference to a Queen bent on revenge.....over his wife's arrogance.  Sir Winston calls this episode \\"painful to record\\" and an \\"unnatural spectacle\\" which \\"reduces the stature of a soldier [literally!].\\" (Book Two, p. 796-7)  I agree: Marlborough lacked that unique quality in his character which comes with real power, which in a sense he never had.  This is one point of major divergence between the two Churchills.  Winston had backbone - he was the supreme leader of his country, acted like one, and treated his king with respect but no fear.  Marlborough feared his Queen AND his wife.  But Marlborough lived in different times, when the monarch still had some residual power, and much of his own influence with Anne depended on his wife's relations with her.  It is interesting to recall how some men of war were also men of power.  Genghis Khan feared no one (with the possible exception of his own mother).  Toyotomi Hideyoshi rose from even humbler roots than Marlborough's to de facto shogun of Japan.  He was carefully respectful of the emperor, but everybody knew who was the real boss.  By the 19th century, Wellington enjoyed a similar privilege in England.    Note: what amazon.com presents as \\"Volume I\\" is actually \\"Book One\\" - this biography is divided into two \\"books,\\" each of which is subdivided into two \\"volumes,\\" One and Two, and Three and Four. For me Book One is the more interesting \\"volume.\\"  Also, the birth year for Marlborough given in the product description is wrong.  He was born in 1650, not 1644.	2003-10-13
US	39352452	RM1KVEWVW7TGO	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Sadly Prophetic (part 2)	America's hard power is not as hard as many people think.  Russia retains the ability to destroy America with ballistic missiles, even if this means suicide.  China has the world's second largest foreign currency reserves (largest if Hong Kong's own is added).  Added to this is China's holdings of $100 billion worth of US treasuries.  That's considerable economic leverage on the US economy in the event of a trade war.  Arab states have the option to deny oil - even if this means more pain to them than to America.  (Without gas can the Humvees, etc. even run?)<br />All these facts should give pause to those who think \\"soft power\\" doesn't matter although I agree that soft power really isn't power.  (You can call it \\"respect\\" instead.)<br />Right-wing fanatics are never going to be persuaded by this book no matter how ingenious the arguments may be.  (I also think the three dimensional chessboards are a bit abstract.  Really only the first two boards count.) They WILL pay for their stupidity though - along with everybody else.	2003-10-13
US	39352452	R2352D6FW3WT4U	0691013551	222080808	Dostoevsky: The Seeds of Revolt, 1821-1849	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Monumental	As Frank emphasizes repeatedly in the Preface (and in the prefaces of subsequent volumes), he is not writing as a biographer, strictly speaking, but rather as a literary critic (and to a lesser extent a socio-cultural historian) - primarily of Dostoevsky's novels.  (Frank does admit that things got a little rough for him during the period of Dostoevsky's imprisonment, as he has chosen to cover the man chronologically rather than book by book.)  This kind of books I have never read before, I must confess.  However, I think his expressed purpose serves my needs perfectly: I am more interested in what the novels mean, than what Dostoevsky was having for dinner on a particular day.  Frank's is a serious and scholarly approach, and I am sure all five volumes - now in an honored place on my shelves - will stand the test of time as the definitive work on the great Russian novels (as opposed to the great Russian novelist).	2003-10-13
US	39352452	R3JSF74RKKIIE1	0465026516	943448850	The Big Ten: The Big Emerging Markets And How They Will Change Our Lives	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Good Start	It now looks like there are really only two, maybe three at most, success stories among Garten's Top Ten choices: China, South Korea, and possibly India.  Mr. Garten's next edition should focus on these.	2003-10-12
US	39352452	R1CRPTNC478TAM	063123330X	671681242	China's Economic Transformation	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Update suggestions	For the next edition - if there is one - I would like to see Professor Chow discuss at greater length two related issues: trade and currency.  <br />Since the middle of 2003, China has become America's third largest trade partner (America is China's second largest partner), replacing Japan, according to the US Dept of Commerce. <br />The issue of the renminbi (yuan) is a hot potato in this election year, as many American politicians are clamoring for a \\"free-floating\\" of China's currency (as a solution to America's jobless problem, trade deficit, etc.).  <br />Professor Chow needs to deal with this issue.  I've heard counter-arguments from some real heavyweights: David Eldon, the Chairman of the global banking giant HSBC, and 2 Nobel Laureates in Economics - Robert Mundell, the world's #1 expert on international currency, and Joseph Stiglitz, the former Chief Economist of the World Bank and Chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.  All three point out that fooling around with the renminbi now would destroy the world economy without doing anything to solve America's problems.  The editors of Fortune, Forbes, and Business Week agree: Be careful what you wish for, because you may get more than expected.<br />My guess is, Professor Chow will take these issues apart with the same analytical and keen intelligence he addresses other issues related to China's economic transformation.	2003-10-05
US	39352452	R22RQD0030D6BN	0743423895	633454625	Space: The Next Business Frontier	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Unrealistic	Mr. Dobbs's personal interest in space is genuine.  So is mine.  But to claim that space and business are on the verge of an explosive boom - well, that was over-optimistic even before the Columbia disaster.  Now it looks as unlikely as ever.........unless of course American companies are willing to out-source satellite-launching to foreign countries like China, at a fraction of the cost in the US.  That's the only hope for a boom in space-related businesses, and the more down-to-Earth solution.  <BR> <BR>A handful of super-rich space-tourists willing to risk their lives on a Russian rocket are simply not enough to make an industry.  Besides, manned spaceflight is now on indefinite hold in the US, which renders space tourism stillborn, at least in the US.<br />Mr. Dobbs ought to plant his feet firmly in the ground of reality and make a choice at some point which scenario he prefers.  The premises of this book are at best premature - at worst totally unrealistic.	2003-10-04
US	39352452	R13A67HWC3RX8H	007137048X	680504370	Stocks for the Long Run : The Definitive Guide to Financial Market Returns and Long-Term Investment Strategies	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Long Run Indeed (pt 2)	I must say that on re-reading this book I find the data pretty convincing.  Stocks do hold up fairly well against other forms of investment, and that's Siegel's message.	2003-10-04
US	39352452	R18LWX07OVD535	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	13	24	N	N	Treason indeed	Coulter says contrary to what the liberal media claims, Iraq is doing very well thank you.  Tell that to the American soldiers coming home with an arm, an eye, or a leg missing, or to the family of those soldiers who come home in a bodybag.  These are the ones who want their country to know what extraordinary sacrifice they are making, and to them it must appear that Coulter is the one committing treason.	2003-09-25
US	39352452	R2PK9915WO1MOY	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Extraordinary	Many Americans are unhappy with the UN, but not many know how much harm is done by the incompetence of the IMF and the World Bank (which happen to be the cousins of the UN itself).  Stiglitz indicts both, writing with the authority not only of a great economist but from an insider perspective.  He is not so much anti-globalization as fed up with the way these two institutions mismanage globalization.<br />The IMF and the World Bank, charges Stiglitz, gave the wrong medicine to developing countries in crisis, making things even worse than if they had done nothing at all.  These include Latin America, Russia, Thailand, South Korea - all of which suffered needlessly from the foolish policies imposed upon them from outside.  It is as though applying powerful shock treatment to a patient in psychological distress - the shocks are more painful than the original illness, and the result is long term brain damage, if not suicide.<BR> <BR>As a counter example Stiglitz cites China as successfully navigating through the Asian Financial Crisis by resisting the unsolicited advice from these venerable agencies.  &quot;China was the other country that followed an independent course,&quot; writes Stiglitz.  China managed to achieve high growth with stability all the while the surrounding economies were crashing down (and as Japan remained mired in recession).  &quot;China achieved this by following the prescriptions of economic orthodoxy.  These were not the Hooverite IMF prescriptions,&quot; Stiglitz continues, &quot;but the standard prescriptions that economists have been teaching for more than half a century: When faced with an economic downturn, respond with an expansionary macroeconomic policy.&quot;  <br />You wonder how Stiglitz views the Bush tax cuts as the &quot;fix&quot; of America's jobless recovery!  (No doubt he is as disdainful as Warren Buffett.)<br />Stiglitz continues: &quot;The standard medicine worked, and China averted a growth slowdown.....I think it is no accident that the only major East Asian country, China, to avert the crisis took a course DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THAT ADVOCATED BY THE IMF [my capitals], and that the country with the shortest downturn, Malaysia, also explicitly rejects an IMF strategy.&quot;<br />Stiglitz's criticism of the WTO is milder by far (indeed he has much less to say about it); he admits it is a much more democratic organization.<br />The IMF and the World Bank are clearly discredited.  If they don't change then they are doomed to irrelevance (like what Bush likes to say about the UN).  As I read this book I feel the presence of a brilliant, almost genius-level mind who calmly keeps his cool while he takes his side with the young, gas-masked protesters throwing rocks and Molotov-cocktails on the streets of Seattle (or wherever their meetings happen to be this year).  The difference is that Stiglitz's arguments hit much harder and make a bigger dent.<br />Former Secretary of the Treasury (now Harvard University's President) Lawrence Summers, whose awesome reputation as an economist is equally matched by his abrasive personality (he never hesitated to lecture Senators during hearings), once said, after meeting with China's then Prime Minister Zhu Rongzhi, &quot;This man must have an IQ of 200!&quot;  It is no accident that Zhu was in charge of China's economy during the Asian Financial Crisis, and that he rejected IMF's prescriptions completely.  One gets the feeling that Joseph Stiglitz's own IQ is in the same league as Premier Zhu's and President Summers's.	2003-09-21
US	39352452	RIJT1I7YSLB3Q	0192853619	905190625	Mathematics: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	143	166	N	N	A Very Good Introduction	Philosophy of math under 200 pages!<br />If one expects a thorough course in basic math, this book may not be it - \\"Mathematics for the Million\\" by Lancelot Thomas Hogben should be your first choice.  Nor does this book have much to say about the historical development of mathematics - for this there is no substitute for Morris Kline's \\"Mathematics for the Non-Mathematician\\" (which teaches the basic concepts of math simultaneously, aided by exercises).<br />This book aims to convey, I think, a sense of what mathematical reasoning is like.  \\"If this book can be said to have a message, it is that one should learn to think abstractly, because by doing so many philosophical difficulties simply disappear,\\" writes Gowers in the Preface.  And at times it does feel as though you're reading a book written by a philosopher.  For instance, p. 80-81 discusses \\"What is the point of higher-dimensional geometry?\\"  (Of course Gowers is not a philosopher but a VERY distinguished mathematician.)<br />Incidentally, here's something that stumps me.  Gowers says \\"[t]here may not be any high-dimensional [i.e., more than three] space  lurking in the universe, but....\\"  But I thought higher-dimensional space is what superstring theory is all about.  And besides, Martin Rees, Andrei Linde and Alan Guth are now telling us there is an infinite number of universes outside our own, each taking a different number of dimensions - some fewer than three, others many more!  Higher-dimensional space may not be as abstract as Gowers thinks.  <br />Gowers's main point, however, is that higher dimensions have meaning and validity in mathematics quite independent of whether they are grounded in objective physical reality, or whether physicists use them or not.<br />This once again illustrates what Eugene Wigner called \\"the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics.\\"  Mathematicians often develop concepts, like Riemannian geometry, n-dimension geometry (where n is over 20), etc., which are way ahead of developments in the empirical sciences, often without any idea whether they will become applicable to, say, physics.   Steven Weinberg puts it this way: It's as though Neil Armstrong when visiting the Moon found the footsteps left behind by Jules Verne.<br />Rare indeed is the distinguished physicist who does not hold mathematics and mathematicians in high regard.<br />I find this book very stimulating to read (though not always easy to understand - my fault no doubt).  It won't help you with school problems.  Nor will it help with daily life.  But it is deep and thought-provoking, explaining \\"just what IS mathematics?\\"<br />I have a minor point of disagreement over this sentence on p. 127: \\"Here is a rough and ready definition of a genius: somebody who can do easily, and at a young age, something that almost nobody else can do except after years of practice, if at all.\\"  This definition would seem to exclude some of the greatest scientists of all time:  Einstein, Max Planck (who was already middle-aged when he discovered the quantum), not to mention Darwin, Benjamin Franklin, Niels Bohr, even possibly Newton.  (It would exclude many non-scientific geniuses also, like Marlborough, who won the Battle of Blenheim at the ripe old age of 54.) <br />I pointed out to the author that his definition is actually appropriate for \\"prodigy\\" (and he seemed to agree).  Indeed his statement is a very succinct definition of \\"prodigy.\\"<br />Is this point worth discussing?  It wouldn't have been, were the concept \\"genius\\" not so often used among mathematicians - to describe one another (with good reasons).  I might add by the way that Gowers, a Fields Medallist, is a certified genius himself.  (Gowers told me he disagreed on both charges.)<br />On reflection, Gowers's definition is not so much wrong as too exclusive.  There are of course no simple ways to define \\"genius.\\"  Like \\"beauty,\\" \\"genius\\" may be in the eyes of the beholder only - we think we recognize it when we see it.   My feeling is that most prodigies are indeed geniuses - how else would you describe a six-year-old who understands trigonometry, or the 16-year-old who is a world champion in chess? - but many true geniuses are not and have not been prodigies when young. Einstein is one such example.  And Darwin another (even more so).  Perhaps Newton also.  <br />I suspect that Gowers's error comes from his experience as a mathematician: many great mathematicians are indeed mathematical prodigies as children.  (Think of John Von Neumann.)   This rule is less true outside mathematics - and the further away from mathematics, the less true it becomes.  Music is close to math for some reason - Mozart is an outstanding example - but war-making is obviously not.  (Napoleon, who was good at math, and rose from nothing to Emperor of France at age 34, might disagree on the latter point.  But then he later lost the war.)<br />Anyway, Gowers does say his definition is only \\"rough and ready,\\" not complete in itself.  This leaves room for other \\"definitions\\" of genius, as there indeed must be.  Surely prodigy is that special kind of genius which catches people's attention instantly, and has some mysterious \\"magic\\" to it, which Gowers rightl stresses is not a necessary quality for success in mathematics.  Von Neumann (always capitalized \\"V\\"), who mastered calculus by age 8, and went on to contribute to quantum mechanics, the Manhattan Project, the first mainframe computers (the \\"Von Neumann machines\\"), set theory, cybernetics, meteorology, the hydrogen bomb, and Game Theory, was a child prodigy with a photographic memory who fits Gowers's restrictive definition of genius - and indeed he was a genius by any definition.  But as Gowers emphasizes, you don't have to be a Von Neumann to be a productive mathematician.<br />The following are Contents: Preface, List of Diagrams, 1 Models, 2 Numbers and abstraction, 3 Proofs, 4 Limits and infinity, 5 Dimension, 6 Geometry, 7 Estimates and approximations, 8 Some FAQs, Further reading, Index.<br />I'm surprised that calculus is nowhere to be found in the Index (as is Newton).  If Gowers has discussed calculus in this book, I may have missed it.  (But then I am no genius.)  In any case a fuller discussion of calculus (and of Newtown) would seem desirable to me.<br />I can't think of a better book to carry around in your pocket than this. This book is outstanding.	2003-09-20
US	39352452	R3OAN1YHI3D4OV	0805062386	379226291	Blowback: The Costs and Consequences of American Empire	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Brilliant Arguments (if a bit one-sided)	\\"Blowback\\" has a technical meaning in intelligence: misinformation fed to enemy states which comes back to misinform the country which feeds it.  I have found that in my personal experience many American experts of Japan suffer from what the State Department likes to call \\"localitis.\\"  I suppose this happens to many Americans who specialize in a foreign country, but in the case of Japan this seems like an epidemic.  They tend to fall head over heels in love with Japan, and then become overcritical of America.<br />Still, the many examples cited by Johnson are certainly persuasive.  No doubt many Americans back home have no idea how unpopular (or at least un-loved) their military bases now are in Japan and South Korea, especially among the younger generations.  Some sailors truly are bad-mannered, arrogant, stupid, cheap and dirty (and sometimes criminal), in local eyes.  But can a few bad apples spoil the whole cart?  And by comparison how well did Soviet soldiers behave in East Germany and the Baltic states?<br />Johnson was premature in calling America unilateralist.  But ironically time has proven him right.  (This book was written in the Clinton years.)  This is a wakeup call.<br />Johnson should update and revise this book.  He may find support in another new book by a Reagan conservative: Clyde Prestowitz, whose \\"Rogue Nation\\" (what an eye-catching title to describe his own USA!) is making headlines and raising more than a few eyebrows.<br />Osama bin Laden is mentioned in this book.  He was of course once on the payroll of the CIA (during their common fight against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980's). Johnson could not have predicted 9/11: the ULTIMATE BLOWBACK.	2003-09-18
US	39352452	R1AQHG1QB9E980	0198606419	534369956	The Oxford Classical Dictionary	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One-volume Encyclopedia	My own copy has a printing error: a good thirty pages under the letter C are misplaced (though still within the letter C).  I don't know if this happens to other copies as well.  If so, the publisher should be ashamed of itself.   (Besides, we're talking about the OUP here!)<br />The OCD is of course the most authoritative one-volume reference book on Greece and Rome (but not the whole ancient Mediterranean).  It is not for amateurs except those who need very specific questions answered (\\"slavery\\" for example, or maybe \\"sexuality\\").  How many of us can own the entire set of Cambridge Ancient History?  This is a useful substitute.  <br />This book calls itself a \\"dictionary\\" although it really is an encyclopedia arranged alphabetically.  Hence the lack of an index, which is too bad.  Even many one-volume encyclopedias nowadays have an index at the back to cross reference every conceivable item.  Think how many times \\"Alexander III ('the Great,'of Macedon)\\" would appear in this book - certainly not just in the one single entry devoted to him.  This is my main humble criticism.  <br />Because it is not really a dictionary its \\"definitions\\" are not intended to be the ultimate authority on anything - just useful introductions written by professionals.<br />There are very few illustrations and no maps.<br />This book is actually cheap on a per page basis (even cheaper on a per word basis) and a very good buy.	2003-09-18
US	39352452	R2MTWV6PIOXQKB	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Buy this book! (Part 2)	I am unable to find Isaacson breaking much new ground in re-discovering Franklin's life - this book is essentially his summary of standard works on Franklin, including the recent ones by Brands and Morgan.  The end notes are replete with references to primary sources, however, indicating either that Isaacson had consulted them, or that readers may find further info from these on specific points.  This makes it different from Isaacson's earlier biography of Henry Kissinger, for which he had done original research and investigative reporting.  Ironically, I think Issacson's judgement about Franklin is on the whole a lot sounder than his opinions of Kissinger.<br />This book is somewhat heavier on the political career, although Franklin had several different careers all going on at the same time: literary, scientific, inventive, business, etc. This is not unexpected from a political journalist.<br />Isaacson makes the point that Franklin was an experimental scientist rather than a theorist.  This is true, but not without qualification.  As far as the science of eletricity goes Franklin was both an experimentalist and a theorist par excellence.  <br />The distinction in the 18th century between experimental and theoretical science was in fact not clear as it is today; hence the term \\"natural philosopher\\" for scientist in those days.  Isaacson was mistaken in contrasting Franklin with Galileo and Newton: in fact Galileo was famous for his gravity experiments made from the Tower of Pisa, and Newton was every bit as experimental as anyone when it came to optics and astronomy (Newton even made his own telescope with commumate skill).  Both Galileo and Newton were astronomers: celestial mechanics, or astronomy, was an empirical science.<br />Franklin in fact carried the science of electricity to the maximum THEORETICAL extent possible for the time without resorting to mathematical equations, which in any case would not be available until James Clerk Maxwell's work on electricity and magnetism.  His famous kite experiments have always given people the wrong impression that that's all Franklin did for electricity.  Not so.  His discovery of the principle of the conservation of charge is theoretical physics, and his invention of the terms positive and negative charges presaged the duality of nature later found by Bohr and other quantum physicists.  Franklin may have been an experimentalist a la Bacon.  A better comparison is with Darwin, who amassed observations to construct a scientific theory (that is, a highly rigorous set of self-consistent explanations of empirical data - not the \\"unproven hypothesis\\" as \\"theory\\" is commonly understood).  Darwin was a \\"naturalist,\\" but also an experimentalist (some of his experiments concerned selective breeding) and an empiricist who founded a theory (also called a \\"standard model\\" as the term is sometimes used by cosmologists).  Modern-day quantitative population genetics and molecular biology in no way render Darwin's theory obsolete just because they are mathematical; in fact they confirm it.  And Franklin was very much in the same mode as Darwin (or the other way around).  <br />Isaacson makes the common error among Franklin biographers to claim that Franklin was mathematically inept.  Not true.  The evidence for Franklin's numeracy is his mastery of magic squares and magic circles, a subject not even mentioned in this book.   (For this subject I recommend the book by Clifford Pickover - fascinating.)<br />On the whole, though, this is a very good book.  It has its own limits, but then no single biography of this multi-faceted Renaissance genius could possibly hope to be complete.  This book has some fantastic pictures, many in color - a rare treat.  (I have never seen the Robert Feke's 1748 portrait reprinted in any book IN COLOR.)<br />Two books that I recommend in addition to this one are \\"Science and the Founding Fathers: Science in the Political Thought of Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and James Madison\\" by the distinguished Harvard scholar I. Bernard Cohen; and \\"To Begin the World Anew: the Genius and Ambiguities of the Founding Fathers\\" by Bernard Bailyn (also a distinguished Harvard scholar).  Neither book is listed in the sources by Isaacson, although one of Cohen's other books is and Bailyn's book is cited in the notes once. <br />Franklin's own writings are of course absolutely essential to understanding the man, and the best one-volume compendium is probably the \\"Writings\\" edited by Leo Lemay and published by the Library of America.  (It's not cheap, but for a nicely bound 1600 pages book printed in fine paper, it is a bargain.  You can find it here on amazon.com.)	2003-09-01
US	39352452	R2TUTBWI8QYRJ2	0345465601	409285201	Master of Middle-Earth: The Fiction of J.R.R. Tolkien	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Useful guide	This book sets out Kocher's interpretation of Tolkien's The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings.  The main weakness of this book is the scant coverage of The Silmarillion - perhaps understandable as Kocher has another book devoted to it.<br />Kocher had a law dgree and a PhD, both fron Stanford, where he also taught English.  He may have practised law - which may account for his lawyerly analysis in this book of Aragorn as the key character of Middle Earth.  <br />If you read only one book to help you along as you read Tolkien's books, this could be a good choice.  (Another would be Robert Foster's Complete Guide to Middle Earth.)	2003-08-28
US	39352452	R1BHQRH85SIWPM	B00007CWQI	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Not at All Realistic	One does not need even an elementary knowledge of Chinese politics  - just plain common sense, or maybe a regular news habit - to know that there is no such thing as a &quot;Minister without Portfolio&quot; in the Chinese Politburo!  This is a British concept.  It is all fine and well for an author to use his imagination when writing science fiction or Tolkienesque fantasy; it is a disaster when people like Clancy aim to make their stories realistic sounding while relying only on their own imagination.  Clancy knows zilch about China to spin a yarn worth the telling.<br />What makes some authors (like Crichton) stand out is that they have a sure grasp of the facts, and then use what expert knowledge they have to write a story that either reflects a really possible scenario in the real world or sometimes even predicts it.  To use one example, a fine author once used his specialised knowledge about the coming technological breakthroughs in naval air power to write a story - in the early 1930's - about the Japanese attacking the American naval base in Hawaii.  This book was written by an Englishman, I believe, at least ten years before the Day of Infamy.  It was little known at the time.......but not so in Japan, where the book was used in the naval officer cadet college as a text. <br />Some of Clancy's older stories - like &quot;The Sum of All Fears&quot; - rise to this level.  This one doesn't cut it, although he is in fine form describing the technical minutiae of weapons systems, etc - as usual.<br />I also suggest that from now on Clancy write three or four of his stories at a time, and bind them all together as one, although this means the publisher must overcome the considerable technical difficulty of printing a novel that runs to four or five or even six thousand pages.  Why this?  Some of Clancy's books read like this kind of tome anyway, as most readers know by now.  They drone on and on and on......and by the time you're half way through you forgot what happened at the start.  By the time you're done with the book you feel less entertained than uplifted by a sense of achievement and relief - something to brag about.	2003-08-12
US	39352452	RN4NACOGUPK8Q	0393020258	847218561	The Tragedy of Great Power Politics	Books	1	44	95	N	N	"Offensive Realism" not really realistic  - just offensive	Mearsheimer advocates slowing down China's economic growth as the solution to America's long term strategic dilemma. This is what happens when you sit in a library all year round reading books, instead of meeting all kinds of interesting people around the globe and learning from the real world.<br />Has he asked himself how his can be achieved? I can see no other way than cutting off trade relations. Given the fact that, according to the US Department of Commerce, China is now America's 3rd largest trade partner (after Canada and Mexico, and AHEAD OF Japan), the consequences for America's struggling economic recovery would be severe. (Many companies will fold, and consumer products' prices will jump.) Also, cutting off trade will result in stopping economic reform in China dead in its track. The result would only strengthen the hand of the die-hard Communists who hate the United States. An angry China armed with nuclear weapons would be a serious threat to America in the post-911 world.<br />China must not become a hegemon in Asia, says Mearsheimer. Why this should be a problem is beyond me. After all, China NEVER says America should not be a hegemon in the Americas. For thousands of years China was the hegemon of Asia.<br />Measheimer also argues that the rise of any great power is de-stabilizing. The example he has in mind is Germany. Yet why the rise of America, and before that of Britain, as great powers was not de-stabilizing is something he cannot explain properly. He thinks this may have something to do with water. Water didn't prevent Japan though, did it?<br />It is clearly foolish to treat China as a definite and unamibiguous enemy, as Mearsheimer does, because this would be a self-fulfilling propecy. Had Britain had the sense to treat their American subjects with respect, rather than as enemy-aliens, America would have remained in the British Empire. But they mistreated their colonials, and the result was far worse than any Brits could have imagined.<br />Britain is lucky in that this separation did not prevent America from becoming Britain's ally later on. One can almost hear Mearsheimer object that China is not America - that the Chinese and Americans are culturally (and no doubt he would argue racially also) far apart. Does that imply an inevitable clash in the future? Time will tell. However, China has not shown a great offensive spirit in its own long past, a subject which Mearsheimer is completely ignorant of.<br />I detest this kind of social science mumble-jumble gobbledegooke because you can spin anything out of thin air and call it \\"realistic.\\" An incomplete knowledge of history and other subjects complicates the matter more. It has been well said that anything called \\"science\\" is definitely not science. And political science, at least the kind practised by Mearsheimer and his ilk, is pure nonsense.	2003-08-08
US	39352452	R3U1SMMFBB7IQB	0297830910	560783693	Weapons of Mass Destruction: The No-Nonsense Guide to Nuclear, Chemical and Biological Weapons Today	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Interesting & Useful	This short volume spends a good deal of its space on the BACKGROUND and DEVELOPMENT (including missile technology) of WMD since the end of WW2.  I suppose this makes sense since one can easily find fairly reliable info on CURRENT ARSENALS from the internet (the \\"Nuclear Notebook\\" of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists immediately comes to mind).  This sort of data change all the time.<br />One figure from this book strikes me: Britain's total nuclear arsenal - all in SLBM's - have a combined yield of just 19 MT. (p. 122) Compare this with China's total: 530 MT.  (p. 124)  However, one must keep in mind the high-survivability of a first strike of the former, something China still lags behind.  China has no SSBM's in operation, according to Hutchinson.  (This is well known.)  How can China see itself as a superpower?  And to think some Americans see China as a future threat!<br />The following are chapter headings: 1. Dr Strangelove Lives! 2. Thunder from the Sky  3. Dawn of Deterrence   4. A Terrible Mushroom Cloud  5. Delivering the Hand of God  6. Missile Proliferation  7. The Last Ditch Defence  8. Awakening from the Nuclear Nightmare  9. Man's Inhumanity to Man - Chemical Weapons  10. Unlocking Pandora's Box - Biological Weapons  Glossary Bibliography<br />This book has no appendixes.  (Worse it lacks an index - something I consider essential in any book of this type.)  This book's emphasis seems to be on nuclear rather than chem or bio weapons.<br />For those who enjoy a HISTORICAL tour of WMD, this book is standard fare.  For those who are interested in the technical description of WMD (i.e., info that are de-classified and thus available to the public), you'd do well to look elsewhere.  As for the author's credentials, I take his competence for granted since he comes from Jane's.<br />Overall, interesting and useful.	2003-08-05
US	39352452	R1KZVIHE3JME8K	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	46	59	N	N	Buy this book!	Isaacson is a superb biographer. I've read his book on Henry Kissinger, and even though I don't agree with some of his conclusions, I admit that was a good book. I'll have more to say about this book when I'm through with it. But I can say this: Isaacson's writing is worth the reading. <br />And the subject itself? Franklin is only one of four people whose portraits I hang on the wall in my own home. (The others include Niels Bohr, the Danish physicist, and Mao Zedong.  And the latter was, perhaps surprisingly, also a fan of Franklin.) <br />I consider Franklin a true hero, a near-universal genius (possibly the only talents he lacked were military, artistic and musical), a great revolutionary, a loving and loveable man......in short, one of the greatest minds with one of the biggest hearts that ever lived. He succeeded in everything he tried his hand at: business, journalism, letters, science, invention, politics, civic duties, philanthropy, diplomacy, even women (Ben was smoother than James Bond). Franklin founded the U of Pennsylvania, the first American fire department, the first American postal service, the first American \\"learning academy\\" (the prestigious American Philosophical Society), among numerous American firsts. As a self-made businessman Franklin would be worth a couple of billions in today's money, according to one source (\\"The Wealthy 100\\"). His honors in the sciences would altogether be equivalent to at least one Nobel Prize in Physics (he won the Copley Gold Medal of the Royal Society, picked up scores of honorary degrees, and was a fellow of both the RS and the French Academy). A Nobel Prize, had it existed then, would have been more than appropriate for his theoretical writings on electricity alone - never mind his other scientific contributions.  As Harvard's I B Cohen pointed out, Franklin's understanding of electricity was much more fundamental than a mere kite experiment.<br />Franklin was also a great American. Indeed, Franklin, who was theonly signer of all five key documents which created the United States - the Declaration of Independence, two treaties with France, peace treaty with England, the US Constitution - was really and literally the first American. He was mentor to Jefferson (whose draft of the Declaration Franklin edited), and was respected by Washington.  If Washington was the Founding Father, then Franklin was the Founding Mother. And while the Father could be cold and distant at times, at least in public,  the Mother was always warm and doting.<br />I have many books on my great hero Ben Franklin - and I use this term \\"hero\\" very selectively. And I'm happy to add this fine book to my library. I'm sure you'll do the same.	2003-07-06
US	39352452	R19INJQSLSJOST	0140249621	504658009	Test Your IQ: A Detailed Explanation of What IQ Means and How It Is Measured -- Including Eight Tests You Can Take	Books	4	29	59	N	N	Smart Book, But..........	The first 50 pages are quite interesting as Eysenck explains his view of IQ and intelligence. (70% genetic and 30% environment? More like 50-50 to me.) The rest of the book is just a battery of thoroughly conventional IQ tests to do on your own. I did one (I scored pretty high).<br />Highly intelligent and high-IQ people are likely to do well academically. But there are also many people who do well academically without an exceptionally high IQ. (Even Richard Feynman did less well on an intelligence test than his sister, while Linus Pauling did less well than his wife! Both scored one or two standard deviations above 100. Hardly impressive.) I doubt Einstein or Ben Franklin would have done poorly - there's no evidence either man ever took an intelligence test - but certainly nowhere nearly as well as Stephen Hawking, whose IQ was reported to be over 170. (Hawking's achievement in physics doesn't even come close to Einstein's though.) Conversely, there are millions of people who do well on intelligence tests without academic success. So IQ tests are very limited in value even in academic terms. (This is particularly true in North America.)<br />Being high-IQ or even academically successful is hardly a guarantee of real success in life, where personality, luck, and other factors (even looks) matter far more than in school. Considering the numerous examples of truly intelligent people in history who could barely read (Genghis Khan, for instance), I'm convinced that being book-smart is not even necessary - and a high-IQ is one kind of booksmartness. (Stalin was not particularly intelligent in academic terms, yet he was very intelligent in his own twisted way. In the end his personality was what made the difference.)<br />No example better illustrates the limits of IQ than Jimmy Carter vs. Ronald Reagan.  In youth Carter was a top student, graduating from the US Naval Academy before eventually earning a master's degree in physics.  Reportedly he was so smart that he onlyopened his books to help his classmates with homework.  After 7 years in the navy - including a stint as an engineer in the first nuclear submarine - Carter made it to the rank of Lt. Cdr. (equivalent to Lt. Col.).  To this list of accomplishments one may add Carter's talent for poetry.  As ex-President he won the Nobel Peace Prize - another distinction. Reagan on the other hand was never spectacular academically - to put it mildly.  Taking classes in sociology (or economics) in a small farm college, Reagan really \\"majored in extra-curricular activities.\\"  He always touched his books the night before exams, and managed to graduate with a C.  By all academic standards Carter was a star and Reagan was a dud.  Had they taken an IQ test, there should have been no doubt who would have done better (Carter - by a huge margin).  Yet once in the White House, their performances were hardly what one would expect from their \\"IQ's.\\"  The fact is, Reagan was incredibly intelligent in ways that matter if one has to be the President.<br />Don't take this book too seriously. Use it as though it were a puzzle/crossword book. People who invent IQ tests, including Eysenck himself, are usually academically above average of course, but in my view they are hardly intelligent in real life. (I do consider hard scientists like Feynman and Pauling truly intelligent.) So don't be cocky if you do well. And don't hate yourself if you score poorly......after all most of these psychologists are dunces!	2003-06-08
US	39352452	R2ES8WZEKODOY6	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Lessons indeed!	As an ex-British colonial subject (and a citizen of another British ex-colony), living next to the United States, I find Ferguson's \\"lessons\\" personally and painfully interesting. On the one hand, he argues that America is already an empire conducting an \\"imperial\\" policy. (It's only an empire \\"in denial.\\") On the other hand, he thinks America is failing to behave properly like an empire. For instance, America is irritatingly reluctant to put lots of troops in the Middle East and to commit them there for a long time, by which he means not months but decades - centuries if necessary (like the Romans in Egypt). President Bush's repeated claim not to stay in Iraq \\"one day longer than necessary\\" is simply maddening! <br />Well, IF America is an empire - and in a sense it is - it ceased to expand when the frontier reached its continental limits - after Alaska and Hawaii were added to its territory. <br />American colonies, like the Philippines, Puerto Rico, the Virgins and some islands in the Pacific (like Midway) are evidence of imperialism, to be sure. But these are small potatoes (some already given up) compared the British Empire: India, Pakistan, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Nigeria, most of the Middle East (including Iraq, Egypt, Mecca and Medina, and control of the desert regions) - and a swath of African colonies running straight down from Sudan to South Africa - plus strategic locales like Gibraltar, Hong Kong, Singapore, Bermuda, and numerous Pacifc islands. The Middle East was particularly important not because of oil - not yet discovered - but because of Egypt's importance to the British Empire due to the Suez Canal, which was Britain's lifeline to India and the Far East. (All these \\"glorious\\" exploits are superbly recounted in this book.)<br />Is America's foreign policy today \\"imperial\\" already? But, wait, isn't President Bush willing to take the fight against terrorists everywhere in the globe, and if that's not \\"imperial,\\" what is? So Ferguson gleefully argues. But the fight against terrorism is a form of self-defense, just as containment of communism used to be. If that's \\"imperial,\\" so be it. I'm all for it (with one caveat below). By stretching his definitions of \\"empire\\" and \\"imperial\\" so much, Ferguson may be putting too much water into his wine. <br />Yet America's foreign policy is not imperial enough to his taste. (It sounds so confusing because it is. Ferguson doesn't think he's being self-contradictory or schizoid: can America be an \\"empire\\" with an \\"imperial\\" policy without acting the way he thinks America is NOT acting? But America is NOT acting the way he thinks America should be - and yet he insists America IS an \\"empire\\"?) But to be \\"imperial\\" in the British (or for that matter, Roman or Mongol) sense required, and requires, much more than self-defense, as readers can find out in this book. To acquire Hong Kong they forced the Chinese to become addicted to opium. To get India they had to put down a Mutiny with brutal violence. To get Africa they had to mow down natives by the millions with Maxim guns. And so on. If that's \\"imperial,\\" then I doubt most Americans have this in mind (not because they think all this is not \\"imperial\\" - it is - but because they believe all this is IMMORAL, and rightly so.)<br />When I see mass demonstrations against the US in the Middle East - for whatever reasons - as well as the tearful partings and joyful family reunions of American servicemen and women on CNN - broadcast live frequently enough - I'm pretty sure that Ferguson's prayer for a large-scale, decades-long occupation of Iraq will never be answered. And the rest of the Middle East? To me, fighting terrorism doesn't necessarily mean HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS of American boys and girls living PERMANENTLY under the hot desert sun in a predominantly HOSTILE Muslim world. But for Ferguson, it does, at the very least. (Two or three million troops stationed all over the oil-rich Arab lands and Iran for the next six to eight decades should please Ferguson's fantasy. In the name of fighting terrorism!) My answer is to this is negative, not because it is hard work, but because it is foolish and self-defeating. Let's not give the likes of Bin Laden another excuse.<br />If my American friends start behaving like the murderous bully that the British were when building their Empire, I'd be the first to declare myself wrong and Ferguson right. But I doubt that day will come.<br />Read this book by all means. Skip the last chapter. Forget about his \\"lessons\\".......they won't do you, or your country, any good.<br />(As for Ferguson's claim that British Empire brought much of the world democracy, free market and the rule of law, I have some doubts. India had little interest in free market capitalism after decolonization; instead it plunged itself into a quasi-socialist system. Africans had neither democracy nor free market nor the rule of law, before or after the British left. To this day they still don't, many would argue. Hong Kong - my hometown - never had the taste of democracy under the British. It does now - but only a taste. As for free market, Hong Kong did get it (perhaps too much of it). And the rule of law? Hong Kong was governed well under British rule of law. But there were two rules of law - one for the Chinese, another for the British expatriates. On the whole, Ferguson's claim is dubious because the record is mixed. Moreover, it can never be proved that former British colonies would have got none of these things had the British not been there in the first place. I'd rather live in South Korea today than any part of former British Africa - or India for that matter - and South Korea is no ex-colony of anyone, except for the Japanese........a long time ago.)	2003-06-07
US	39352452	RYHYDDXSAZTKF	0330491415	531324092	Patriots: National Identity in Britain 1940-2000	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Bold &amp; Very Readable	This book covers post-war Britain.  Weight's views of the future of the UK are summarized in the book's Conclusions, which I find too short to be clear.  In short, on p. 733 he states simply that the UK will probably not last another hundred years.  It is an &quot;unfortunate&quot; marriage; and separation is desirable.  But divorce is out of the question.  Weight speculates that the four nations - England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales - will likely become &quot;independent nation states&quot; with their own parliaments and armed forces........but still under the same monarch!  <br />Does this arrangement mean the four nations will therefore become sovereign?  What does he mean by &quot;armed forces&quot;?  Their own police forces?  Or their own army, navy and air force?  (If so, what are they for?  To guard against territorial invasion by one another?)  As for parliaments, what will they do besides raising their own taxes?  What laws will they pass, criminal and otherwise?  Weight has got to be a lot more specific on all these and many more questions like these.  His &quot;Conclusions&quot; whet my appetite to the breaking point.<br />The system he compares to is the loose, informal federation which he terms the &quot;polity&quot; which existed between 1603 and 1707.  As I'm no expert on British history, I can only guess that this must be something like a federal system of government, the kind that Canada and the USA now use.  <br />My problem with this analogy (mine, of course) is simply that there are no independent nation states within either Canada or the USA.  Ontario is no more an independent nation state than Texas is.  But it is nevertheless true that every Canadian province has its own legislature (and the one in my own Ontario is indeed called &quot;Provincial Parliament&quot;!).  The same goes for the American states: every state has its own legislature (not to mention its own executive and judiciary).  At the same time, every Canadian province has its own police force.......although Canada has a national army (believe it or not!) and a national police  - i.e., the Mounties.  The same goes for America.  Indeed, in addition to national armed forces and the FBI, every American state has its own national guard or its equivalent.  Some, like the Texas National Guard, even has its own fighter jets!  If that's not &quot;armed forces,&quot;  what is, Mr. Weight?<br />I'd be happy to be corrected if I'm wrong, but prior to 1707 Scotland was its own country, was it not?  As for one monarch for all, that truly complicates the whole picture.  Why call yourself a &quot;sovereign&quot; state if your sovereign is the same sovereign as everybody else?  I thought the Scots used to have their own kings - at least since Robert the Bruce, right?  If Charles III (assuming that's the title used by the future Prince Charles) will be the same king everywhere in the British Isles, then why bother with your &quot;separation&quot; at all?  I'm scratching my head here.  To make things worse, my own Canada is a constitutional monarchy whose &quot;Crown&quot; is also QE2.  However, since every Canadian politician is elected by Canadians - there are no officials appointed by London anymore (even the Governor-General is chosen by the PM nowadays) - few people in the world today would disagree that Canada is an independent nation state, technically and officially sovereign........though this &quot;independence&quot; is somewhat (or thoroughly) diluted by reliance on the Americans!<br />This book is good.  In a way it is a sequel to Linda Colley's &quot;Britons.&quot;  (She seems to share a similar &quot;conclusion.&quot;)  But Weight has got to be more specific and clear as to what he means.......he's too vague.  My own view is that he is too pessimistic: I think that within the timeframe he suggests the four nations can, if they try hard enough, become fully independent members of the EU - as independent as Denmark is from Germany.   The historyof unity among the &quot;British&quot; peoples do not go very deep.  After all, as late as twelve or thirteen centuries ago England itself was a &quot;heptarchy,&quot; nominally under one &quot;bretwalda&quot; but in reality seven separate kingdoms.  (By contrast America is firmly united by an idea, and China has been a single state for about twenty-two centuries.)	2003-06-06
US	39352452	RUFZJCCVWG6RN	0330491415	531324092	Patriots: National Identity in Britain 1940-2000	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bold & Very Readable	This book covers post-war Britain. Weight's views of the future of the UK are summarized in the book's Conclusions, which I find too short. In short, on p. 733 he states simply that the UK will probably not last another hundred years. It is an \\"unfortunate\\" marriage; and separation is desirable. But divorce is out of the question. Weight speculates that the four nations - England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales - will likely become \\"independent nation states\\" with their own parliaments and armed forces........but still under the same monarch! <br />Does this arrangement mean the four nations will therefore become sovereign? What does he mean by \\"armed forces\\"? Their own police forces? Or their own army, navy and air force? (If so, what are they for? To guard against territorial invasion by one another?) As for parliaments, what will they do besides raising their own taxes? What laws will they pass, criminal and otherwise? Weight has got to be a lot more specific on all these and many more questions like these. His \\"Conclusions\\" whet my appetite to the breaking point.<br />The system he compares to is the loose, informal federation which he terms the \\"polity\\" which existed between 1603 and 1707. As I'm no expert on British history, I can only guess that this must be something like a federal system of government, the kind that Canada and the USA now use. <br />My problem with this analogy (mine, of course) is simply that there are no independent nation states within either Canada or the USA. Ontario is no more an independent nation state than Texas is. But it is nevertheless true that every Canadian province has its own legislature (and the one in my own Ontario is indeed called \\"Provincial Parliament\\"!). The same goes for the American states: every state has its own legislature (not to mention its own executive and judiciary). At the same time, every Canadian province has its own police force.......although Canada has a national army (believe it or not!) and a nationalpolice - i.e., the Mounties. The same goes for America. Indeed, in addition to national armed forces and the FBI, every American state has its own national guard or its equivalent. Some, like the Texas National Guard, even have their own fighter jets! If that's not \\"armed forces,\\" what is, Mr. Weight?<br />I'd be happy to be corrected if I'm wrong, but prior to 1707 Scotland was its own country, was it not? As for one monarch for all, that truly complicates the whole picture. Why call yourself a \\"sovereign\\" state if your sovereign monarch is the same sovereign as everybody else's? I thought the Scots used to have their own kings - at least since Robert the Bruce, right? If Charles III (assuming that's the title used by the future Prince Charles) will be the same king everywhere in the British Isles, then why bother with your \\"separation\\" at all? I'm scratching my head here. To make things worse, my own Canada (like Australia) is a constitutional monarchy whose \\"Crown\\" is also QE2. However, since every Canadian politician is elected by Canadians - there are no officials appointed by London anymore (even the Governor-General is chosen by the PM nowadays) - few people in the world today would disagree that Canada is an independent nation state, technically and officially sovereign........though this \\"independence\\" is somewhat (or thoroughly) diluted by reliance on the Americans!<br />This book is good. In a way it is a sequel to Linda Colley's \\"Britons.\\" (She seems to share a similar \\"conclusion.\\") But Weight has got to be more specific and clear as to what he means.......he's too vague. My own view is that he is too pessimistic: I think that within the timeframe he suggests the four nations can, if they try hard enough, become fully independent members of the EU - as independent as Norway is from Sweden or Denmark.  (And Ireland, including Northern Ireland, may by a similar analogy be compared to Iceland, whose political independence, as opposed to its cultural history, is a recent one.)<br />The history of unity among the \\"British\\" peoples does not go very deep. After all, as late as twelve or thirteen centuries ago England itself was a \\"Heptarchy,\\" nominally under one \\"bretwalda\\" (Offa, etc.) but in reality seven separate kingdoms (Mercia, Wessex, Essex, etc.).  Scotland was its own world. (And Ireland must have seemed as far away as the Moon.)  By contrast, America is firmly united by the patriotism of its people and by its ideals - many of which enshrined in its written Constitution (unlike the British one) - while China has been a single unified state since 221 B.C.	2003-06-06
US	39352452	R1SL8WDBMMUOU0	080704718X	431292333	Wealth and Our Commonwealth: Why America Should Tax Accumulated Fortunes	Books	5	24	26	N	N	6 Stars Out of 5	This extraordinary little book packs a gigantic punch. I'd love to summarize it here, but as soon as you buy the book, get straight to Chapter One. It's enough to make you sick in the stomach.<br />Is America a \\"democracy\\"? After Ch.1 you really wonder. A sample from p. 15: Around the turn of the century, shortly before WWI, the top 1 (one) per cent of the population owned 56.4% of the country's private wealth - at the same time, the authors tell us, \\"the wealthiest 10 [ten] per cent of households owned 90% of all wealth.\\" Now, think about it: 90% of Americans together owned a mere 10% of the country! (And most of the country's wealth was in private hands, because the government at all levels owned very little of value. There wasn't even a national park in existence!) That's neither justice nor democracy.<br />American society started to improve since then, especially after the introduction of income tax. But things have again gone in the opposite direction in the last two decades, so that \\"the United States is now the most unequal society in the industrialized world.\\" (p. 14)<br />This fact is borne out in the UN Human Development Report 2002. (I was surprised that this authoritative publication is NOT cited anywhere in this book.) This report gives the \\"Gini Index\\" for each country, among numerous other data. The Gini Index is not something out of Aladdin: It \\"measures inequality over the entire distribution of income or consumption. A value of 0 represents perfect equality, and a value of 100 perfect inequality.\\" (p. 197) Ranked are these selected countries in the industrialized world: Denmark (24.7 - the least unequal society), Japan (24.8), other Scandinavian countries (including Finland) at around 26, then Germany (30.0), then English-speaking countries like my own Canada (31.5 - the lowest in this group), Australia (35.2 !!), the UK (36.8 - hardly news, what with their queen and lords), and finally the United States at 40.8. (France, the host of the French Revolution, is a surprising 32.7.) For comparison, developing China is 40.3 (beats the US by a hair - but not for long), India only 37.8 (I guess only a couple of people can be called rich there), and Russia is the most unequal of all at 48.7.....but then Russia is now run by a mafia of ruthless moneylords, much like America a century ago, when men like Rockefeller and Al Capone ran all the shows. (Still it is better than the gulag and secret police. And anything is better than communism.)<br />Getting rid of the estate tax won't help one bit. On the other hand, not repealing it in and of itself is just a small step in the right direction, hardly enough to stop the country from sliding down the slippery slope to a second Gilded Age. This book makes a very convincing argument why getting rid of the estate tax is truly a form of insanity the name of which is still not in the psychiatric textbooks. Bill Gates Sr.'s position is supported by his son (the world's richest man - mostly self-made). Warren Buffett, the world's second richest man (also self-made), disagrees with them only because he thinks the estate tax as it is does not go far enough. (He'd prefer to tax 100% of the super-rich's inheritance not given to charity.) This estate tax is absolutely, undoubtedly no \\"death tax\\" - as though everyone has to pay it, even the poor. Rather, it is really just \\"rich kids' tax\\"! Let's start calling the thing by its right name.<br />Andrew Carnegie is frequently quoted in this book, for good reasons.  This mega-hero of the Gilded Age, who rose from abject poverty in a foreign country to become the richest man on earth, literally built America - with the steel from his furnaces, used in railroads and highrise buildings.  He went even further than Buffett: \\"Any rich man [or woman, I assume] who doesn't give away his money to charity BEFORE he dies is a shame and a disgrace to society,\\" as he said over and over. Carnegie certainly practised what he preached. (Before he died he gave away at least 95% of his worth, mostly to create free libraries for people too poor to have books.)  Carnegie also believed in the estate tax: \\"Of all taxes this seems the wisest,\\" in a memorable quote in this fine book.<br />At a time when many Americans worry about losing their jobs, when every citizen pays for the defense of the country, this is no time for the estate tax repeal - just so that the Forbes zillionaires own and control even more of the country while the rest have nothing or next to nothing. The supremely selfish, extremely greedy, totally irresponsible, unbelievably small-minded and short-sighted people who oppose the estate tax - and therefore dislike this book - hate and despise their fellow Americans more, and do more long term damage to America, than any Middle East terrorists because this kind of injustice (in Buffett's choice word) was what caused the downfall of Rome and is still yet another reason which encourages neo-Marxists everywhere.<br />This book is densely argued and extremely clearly presented. The 24 pages of sources in this slim little volume show the authors have done their homework, despite the omission I mentioned. Bill Gates Sr.'s authority is undeniable not only because he was already wealthy himself BEFORE his son became the world's richest human being (for at least the past ten years as far as I know), but also because he is himself a highly successful tax lawyer and in charge of one of the world's largest charitable foundations, the Gates Foundation. (One day it will be the world's largest.) If he doesn't know what he is talking about, I don't know who does. This book's Foreword is aptly written by the formidable Paul Volcker, former Fed Chairman.<br />I can't praise this book enough. It can go further though, as the public and private statements by Warren Buffett - a good friend of both Gates' - explain clearly why.  Despite its admirable conciseness, this book can use a good general index at the end.  (I want to be sure who said what when and why.)	2003-05-17
US	39352452	RDO11NEUYW9QZ	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	3	9	17	N	N	American Empire?	In this book Ferguson makes a case for Pax Americana (which he articulates further in newspaper articles and interviews). <br />But at the core of the ideas of \\"empire\\" and \\"imperialism\\" are two sharp distinctions: one between rulers and subjects, AND another between masters and slaves/servants. These distinctions are very clear in all empires in history, whether Roman, Mongol, or British.<br />Ferguson's argument is in two parts. First, that America is an empire \\"in denial,\\" one that \\"dares not speak its name.\\" He cites the growth of the country as evidence: settlement from Europe, the ruthless elimination of natives (i.e., Indians), enslavement (of blacks), foreign aggression (against Mexico), etc. All these are undoubtedly characteristics of \\"empire-building\\" and \\"imperialism.\\" (The British did much more, including selling dope by force, as in China.)<br />The second part of his argument is that America should continue to extend and expand its \\"imperial\\" reach overseas - and Iraq is America's first base in the Middle East.<br />My answer to the first part is this: what makes American imperialism different from all these other ones in history - including the British - is its outspoken and deliberate egalitarianism, its sense of fairness and equality. While there has always been a gap between their ideals and what they actually practise, the truth is that their egalitarian instinct makes it difficult for them to tolerate the two basic distinctions present in empires mentioned above. In the end the Americans fought a Revolution (1776-1783) to remove the first - that between rulers (Britain) and subjects (colonials); then they fought a bitter war (1861-65) to get rid of the second - that between masters (whites) and slaves (blacks). My feeling is that Americans are unlikely to bring back these distinctions, which they must if they are to build an empire in the British mould. (That's why President Bush keeps repeating that Americans are going to Iraq to give them \\"freedom\\" - not new masters. He is reflecting his own people's deep feelings.)<br />As for building an empire now, whether this is even possible is a tough question, quite apart from whether this is desirable. Of course, if possible the first place for Americans to occupy militarily (thus control) would be the oil-rich Middle East: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, UAE, in addition to Iraq. (There's not much use in having sub-Saharan Africa these days - as the Europeans soon learned, to their surprise.) I need elaborate no further if America so much as tries to \\"Indianize\\" the Middle East (i.e., occupy by force as the British did in the whole Indian subcontinent, well-described in this book). Either we get World War III, or one million brand new Bin Ladens.<br />This book also covers the British Empire in a positive light. Honestly, Ferguson's book stacks up well against my other ones on the British Empire (including the Oxford Histories). I must say that on reflection Ferguson has a point, at least where the merits of the British Empire are concerned.  I don't know if Pakistan would have existed without the British involvement, and Africa would have been even worse off today without association with Britain.  China benefited the most from the aggression of the British Empire, but in reality they could not establish any significant colonial bases there.  The British legacy in the Middle East must be bitter sweet for the colonialists.  They helped the Arabs get rid of their Ottoman masters, awoke Arab nationalism, and made their independence possible.  And the British left the Middle East just at the moment when oil was found.<br />Ferguson's dream for America in the future, however, is another matter. (Incidentally it is very nearly opposite in substance to Samuel Huntington's harebrained scheme for a reverse containment of the West.) My kindest words for this idea would be \\"off the wall\\" and \\"unrealistic.\\"	2003-05-15
US	39352452	R2P8AGT02KA7WW	0805031154	326826823	Mao: A Life	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Balanced Bio	I was surprised to find this to be the best English-language biography of Mao since Ross Terrill's. Jonathan Spence's view of Mao seems to me too politically correct, despite his credential as a distinguished sinologist.<br />Short is a BBC journalist with no special background in Chinese history. (I also gather from his \\"Acknowledgements\\" that he doesn't read Chinese either - his wife, who is his assistant, does.) Ironically, this intellectual detachment may have helped. I think Short's opinions of Mao are just right - neither laudatory nor overcritical. <br />Mao may have been a great criminal as well as a great man. Of the three great tyrants of the 20th century - Hitler, Stalin, Mao - Mao was probably the least destructive. Mao's rule caused more deaths than Hitler's and Stalin's combined. But this must be qualified by two facts: First, Mao's greatest number of casualties came from his famine, which, unlike Stalin's, was mostly unintentional - the result of his stupidity about agricultural methods. Stalin's was half-deliberate, aggressively enforced by the OGPU. Mao's famine upset him, while Stalin didn't mind his. (Hitler couldn't care less about casualties in war - German or foreign - and before he died he only regretted he hadn't killed MORE Jews, Russians, etc.) Also, Mao's toll is relatively small as a percentage of China's huge population, while Hitler's and Stalin's deaths made up a big chunk of theirs.<br />Conversely, of the great statesmen of the 20th century, Mao was the least likeable and probably the most ruthless. At the same time, compared with other Chinese emperors in history, Mao was neither the worst (though he often said he wished he were) nor anywhere near the best. He was well above average in achievements - but definitely near the top of the list in power. Mao was undoubtedly one of the most influential revolutionaries of all time, anywhere.  He was also one of history's greatest military thinkers and commanders.<br />As with Napoleon, there will be no end to arguments for and against Mao, and Short makes it clear he shares this view in his final words. This seems to me a sensible and objective attitude. (Short does point out Mao's artistic and literary talents, which were undeniable.)  I recommed this book to anyone who wants to know why Mao is still admired - if not worshipped - by two-thirds of Chinese today (again rather like Bonaparte is still France's national hero).....	2003-05-12
US	39352452	R1VLVQUT0QQBED	0465084125	244586833	The New Chinese Empire: Bejing's Political Dilemma And What It Means For The United States	Books	3	23	31	N	N	This book makes my head spin	The coincidence is remarkable: Niall Ferguson's book on the British Empire, Dominic Lieven's on the Russian Empire, and now Ross Terrill's on the Chinese Empire - all appear at the same time. All are histories with a message - the subject is more like political science than strictly history.<br />While Ferguson's final message on the British Empire is that America is in fact an empire and should be a larger one still in the future, Terrill argues similarly that China today is also an empire - but one that should cease to exist if possible.<br />This book is somewhat confusing, a jumble of anecdotes, historical analysis, and political theorizing. It is so full of complaints about the present Chinese government that I doubt this is unintentional: Ross Terrill is making a statement, being deliberately provocative (no doubt improving sales here in America), and leaving behind a personal manifesto for posterity, so to speak. This book is unlikely to make the bestsellers lists in China, to put it mildly.<br />If I'm not mistaken, Terrill believes China will democratize - and break up into a federation of semi-independent states. He offers a number of scenarios, but the point is the same: China cannot, must not, and will not remain what it is today. He means politically. Of economics he has little to say.<br />While I agree with him that China will change, Terrill is a bit vague on his specific timeframe. <br />My personal observation is as follows. China has undergone more changes politically and economically in the last two hundred years than it had ever had since 400-200 B.C., when China was in political, military, cultural, economic and social turmoil before finally achieving the prosperity and stability of the two Han Dynasties. Today China is still in transition, and one cannot expect China not to change. Terrill's point is valid, if somewhat overstated. Every country follows its own course, which is marked out by its history and shaped by international events. Certainly China will eventually liberalize and be part of the international community in every sense. Why be so impatient?  China today is authoritarian and totalitarian.  What Terrill doesn't ask is: Is China more authoritarian and totalitarian today than a quarter century ago, or is it less so?  The answer is of course LESS SO.  Moreover, all signs point to the same thing: China is still moving in the democratic direction, and however slow this process may be, it seems irreversible.  Terrill chooses not to point this out.  (If China were NOT moving in the right direction, I doubt very much the 2008 Olympics would have been awarded to Beijing.  The reason why comparing the Beijing Games to the \\"Hitler Olympics\\" in 1936 doesn't make sense is that Germany in the 1930's was moving in the wrong direction, while China today is clearly changing in the right direction, politically as well economically.)<br />I have a slight problem with authors who make their points with highly selective facts. It makes me suspicious of their integrity (or worse, their competence). I have no doubt Terrill is a China-lover. After all his biography of Mao is one of my favorite books. But this book is a little different. One detail illustrates my point. On p. 281: \\"In fact, after two decades of MFN status for China, US trade with the PRC was very far from being 'ten times' its trade with Taiwan. In 1999, US exports to the PRC were LESS than its exports to Taiwan.\\" <br />First of all, considering this book just came out of the printers, I find it odd that he has chosen 1999 to make his point. US exports to China in Feb 2003 was $4 billion, compared to $2.5 billion to Taiwan - not LESS, but 1.6 times. US total trade with China for the month of Feb, 2003 was $11.69 billion, compared with the puny $3.38 billion with Taiwan. For the whole year of 2002, US total trade in both exports and imports with China amounted to $147.3 billion, compared with the much smaller $50.6 billion with Taiwan. (All figures from the US Dept of Commerce.)  Now, of course none of these figures invalidate Terrill's point that US trade with China is still less than ten times that with Taiwan, but what he suggests is misleading (and in his suggestion that US exports to China is less than to Taiwan, wrong).  The truth is, China is doing much more trade, both ways, with America than Taiwan is. It may not be ten times as much - YET - but considering the fact that America has been seriously trading with China for only a decade, while it has been doing so with Taiwan since 1949, the ten times conjecture is very possible in the future. China is already America's 4th largest trade partner - coming fast on the heels of Japan - while Taiwan is only 9th. Terrill neglects to mention that the trade growth between China and the US is extremely fast, while America's trade with Taiwan is stalled. He also fails to note that two-way trade betwen China and Taiwan is also growing healthily (despite SARS).  Terrill is suggesting that when Deng Xiaoping made this forecast to Carter, he was lying.  But he wasn't, because he never said when this target would be achieved.  In time, it will be.<br />Terrill makes this observation to illustrate the difference between what the Chinese govenment says and the reality. This book has countless such examples. No doubt the point itself is well-made and correct.  (Show me a government - any government - that tells the truth, the whole truth and nothing but!  Where are the WMD and al-Qaeda links in Iraq?)  But since the reality he himself presents is often so misleading and sometimes wrong, he makes a fool of himself. He must first find out the truth himself before accusing others of not telling the truth.<br />While I'm on this subject of trade, Terrill doesn't ask himself why trade with the West will not be the key to political changes in China. It WILL be. Indeed he has little to say about economics in general, even though foreign trade leads to economic prosperity, which in turn will drive social and political liberalization, not to mention further economic reform. Trade is China's political and economic engine. Instead he focuses on the one thing he loves to talk about: political ideology. That puts the cart before the horse. Also, he doesn't discuss why China even with an authoritarian system can still be a responsible and constructive partner with the US over foreign problems, such as North Korea, as it is indeed proving to be so. India is a democracy - how is India helping America?  France too is a democracy for that matter.<br />I find this book full of rage. No doubt it stems from his personal love of China and his hatred of the regime, and I empathize.  Or maybe it's just a deliberate posture (what they call \\"grand standing\\")?  But it is foolish to be impatient and fail to take the long view. (This is doubly odd since Terrill's familiarity with China's history is evident in this book.) It is also unwise to neglect the economic factors in the equation, and dishonest to be highly selective in presenting facts and figures to prove his points.	2003-04-30
US	39352452	R3EGGATVJ587VD	0375412158	520721490	The End of the American Era: U.S. Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the Twenty-first Century	Books	3	9	23	N	N	Why Europe?	Europe's era belongs to the past and not the future. After the internecine wars of the 20th century Europe is just picking up the pieces, while its global leadership shifted to America, never to return. Even if European countries manange to band together eventually, they can never be bigger economically than America, for two reasons. First, thanks to immigration America's population growth is much higher than Europe's, making the expansion of the economy possible. Second, Europe's population is aging fastest in the world (except Japan), and this not only ensures the European economy will not expand by population, it also will constantly increase the pressure on GDP growth.<br />The race in the 21st century is between an America dominant in its own hemisphere, with Canada and Mexico behind it, and China, dominant in all of East Asia including Japan. The end of the 21st century will see a stool with three legs: China, America, and Europe, with Europe being the shortest of them (unless all of Eastern Europe and Russia are included). What will happen in the 22nd century is anyone's guess - the world may not last that long. But China's historical preeminence over Europe is highly suggestive. Until AD 1500 China was far more advanced than Europe. A larger population made China several times bigger than Europe in economic and military terms. <br />World power will continue to shift westwards from America. If history is to repeat itself, it will be China's turn to be dominant before finally it is again Europe's turn - completing the circle. When will that be? Certainly not any time soon. My guess is, even my grandchildren's grandchildren will be cold and six feet under before Europe becomes top dog again, if ever. My hunch comes from wide reading and travels around the world - including all three continents mentioned. Time will tell if I am right or Kupchan is.<br />Kupchan is right though that America cannot hold its top position for long.  Winning the Cold War and being the world's only superpower does not mean it is not in relative decline - the process began after 1945, not after 9/11.	2003-04-29
US	39352452	R3G2MHDP4G8LM8	0521002540	370834355	The Cambridge Illustrated History of the British Empire (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	4	9	19	N	N	Well illustrated	The British Empire is a subject of particular personal interest, since I was born under the Union Jack in pre-1997 Hong Kong, and I'm still living in a former British Commonwealth country - a citizen of Canada.  This book is full of photos, many in color. But it is low on maps - a dreadful error considering the subject matter.<br />The Opium Wars are only briefly mentioned. Surprising because of the importance of Hong Kong in the British Empire.<br />China, the chief victim of the Opium Wars, may have been the chief beneficiary of the British Empire. Opening the country by force and humiliation has resulted in war and revolution, which are now unleashing the energies of the people. China fell behind Europe since about 1500. Now, thanks to the British Empire, China is beginning to close the gap.<br />Had China not been opened up, its people would have fallen behind even further - and living at African levels of development. So while in the short-term the British Empire devastated China, in the long run it helped China change and modernize (rather like what the Americans did to Japan since Commodore Perry).  <br />However, nothing would be more foolish than to think that the Chinese should feel gratitude to the British for setting this gigantic process in motion.  It would be like asking the Jews to be thankful to Hitler for the Holocaust - even though similarly  Hitler's crimes were a direct reason why the Jews have a homeland for the first time in two thousand years.  Truly, the disgusting crimes committed by the British against the Chinese cannot be easily surpassed by anything else in human history - with the possible exception of the Holocaust itself.  Maybe this is one reason why this is not discussed in this book - it's too sensitive.  The Opium Wars are the moral abyss of the British Empire.<br />China has now recovered to the point where it may one day challenge America for world leadership.  Britain, on the other hand, which led the world in trade and outputin late 19th century, is now in sixth place for world trade and seventh place for GDP - and falling. <br />Ironically, the 19th century British Imperialists planning their conquests from London had no idea their work would have such unintended consequences just over a century later - a short time in world history terms.<br />This book does not address the issue whether Northern Ireland and Scotland are properly speaking part of the British Empire or part of Britain itself. Technically, the latter is true. But Scotland only became part of the UK in 1707 - arguably a key date in the history of the British Empire - and independent tendencies are already gathering pace there. Time will tell whether the UK itself will survive the dismemberment of the British Empire. My guess is, the lure of membership in the EU will drive the Scots and the English apart.<br />Overall this is a very good book, written by experts and the standards are high. The British Empire should be of interest to many since such hotspots as Bermuda, Gibraltar and the Falklands are still in British possession. Americans too may find the subject fascinating - since Colonial America was once part of the British Empire. Thanks to the British Empire, and even more to the fact that America is #1 in the world, English has become the universal language of our planet.	2003-04-25
US	39352452	RFAF96KBBIULL	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	3	79	110	N	N	Ferguson's Fantasy	The British Empire, the subject of this book, is of personal interest to me since I was born under the Union Jack in pre-1997 Hong Kong and am still living in the British Commonwealth. <br />The book devotes most of its space to a highly competent narrative history - and positive spin - of the British Empire.  Had Ferguson stopped there, I'd have given this book a higher rating.  But he didn't.  In the last chapter the author suggests America to follow in Britain's footsteps.  There is no better way to describe this idea than \\"Alice in Wonderland.\\"<br />If Ferguson is emotionally committed to an American Empire, as he seems to be in the last chapter and in other writings, he will without any doubt whatsoever spend the rest of his career as bitterly disappointed as Winston Churchill once was about the death of his British Empire. Neither America's culture, which is the inevitable product of its history, nor the new world order shaping up in the 21st century, permits any such thing. <br />Ferguson believes in a future American Empire, with Iraq as its first base.  Judging by the difficulty President Bush had just to convince the UN to liberate Iraq, and by the emphatic way in which Donald Rumsfeld publicly announces America's intention to reduce troop levels in the Gulf, I am more certain than ever that Ferguson's thesis is an empty academic exercise. <br />America was once - only 60 years ago - twice as powerful as it is today.  Here's why.  In 1945 United States with only 7% of the world's population made 42% of the world's income, held 50% of the world's industrial capacity, 75% of the world's gold, 90% of the world's cars, and the world's only nuclear weapons (and was the world's only country with the ability to make them). But America did not take advantage of its unprecedented power to invade, drug, disease, mass murder, conquer, exploit, rule, or lord it over other peoples - as the British did shamelessly in China (with opium), India, and numerous other placesin Africa and the Pacific.  Rather than create an empire of its own, America fostered anti-imperialism and decolonization everywhere.<br />Today, America's GDP is 20% of the world's total, and shrinking. Also, in most other measures America has lost its dominance, if not leadership.  Now, what makes Ferguson think that a much weaker America is now suddenly interested in doing what it never showed any interest in doing before when it was so much bigger?  Also, America today has a somewhat lower international image today than it used to have in 1945, unfortunately. Back then even the Germans and the Japanese grudgingly liked the Americans once they realized how much worse they would have been under Stalin's rule.  (About the only people who didn't were the Russians, having been brainwashed by the govenment.)  For America to attempt a repeat now, in the entire Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, of what the British did in Egypt just before World War I, would be national suicide.  One supposes even Rumsfeld understands that.  But this is what Ferguson is hoping for, believe it or not.<br />For understandable reasons, Ferguson has little to say about the Opium Wars.  I don't blame him - who wants to talk about something that tarnishes the glory of the British Empire?  (That doesn't mean most educated Chinese today have forgotten about it, however.  There is a reason why China's biggest trade partner in Europe is Germany.)  What he fails to realize is who the real beneficiary of the British Empire was - not America, whose birth was the struggle to be free from it, but a country about which he knows absolutely nothing: China. China had been in relative decline (relative to the West, that is) since about 1500. Until China was opened by force by British gunboats, China remained in self-satisfied slumber. Then the Scottish drug-dealers Jardine and Matheson rudely jolted the nation awake. The Opium Wars were the direct cause of the demise of the Manchu regime and the subsequent communist revolution, which then led to the economic reform and revival of the last two decades. Of course in the short term, the British caused enormous devastation in China. But in the long term, from the much longer perspective of world history, China benefited more from the British Empire than any other country. (But the Chinese today feel as little gratitude to the British as the Jews do to Hitler - even though similarly the Holocaust is a major reason why the Jews have a homeland for the first time in two thousand years.)  I maintain that it was the British who set this gigantic process in motion, the consequences of which are still being played out before our eyes.<br />It's sad to see such a brilliant mind coming up with such a crackpot idea as Pax Americana.  Time will tell if I'm right, but I am in no doubt Ferguson is wrong.  This dangerous wasp in  his bonnet suggests he lives in the past and is blind to present and future realities. Worse, he shows a poor understanding that America's conduct is shaped no less by its historical course than by the new world order of the 21st century. Rather than worry about America's lack of interest in creating its own empire, with its lure of vicarious pleasure compensating for the demise of the British one, perhaps Ferguson should really ask himself whether the United Kingdom itself will survive the loss of Northern Ireland to Ireland and Scotland to independence. It has not escaped my notice, after all, that the UK was artificially created less than 300 years ago.<br />For those who enjoy a positive and comprehensive overview of the British Empire - and I have several on this subject myself - this is not a bad book, so long as you're aware of the author's ideology.	2003-04-25
US	39352452	R2CXWCC7QA7BCJ	031216985X	707311195	The Rise and Fall of the British Empire	Books	3	6	29	N	N	Good Intro	This is not a serious scholarly work of the British Empire worthy of citation anywhere by anyone, as I explain below. <br />What a difference a century made! In 1900, when Queen Victoria was still on the throne, Britain was the leading imperial power. Pink was everywhere on the world map. Now pink is only a tiny speck in the northwest corner of Europe.<br />Although Britain's economic output was already surpassed by America by 1900 (America's output was almost double, while America's industry was one-and-a-half times), its Empire's total share of world trade was 16% - more than that of any other country. America and Germany had 11% each. But yesterday, the World Trade Organization just released the latest trade figures, which show among other things that Britain was overtaken by China in 2002 for the fifth place in share of world trade. The new order is: America, Japan, Germany, France, China, Britain and Canada. Britain is at SIXTH place.<br />Britain's GDP is now $1.52 trillion, according to the CIA World Factbook. That's a mere 3.2% of the world total, at SEVENTH place, behind America, China, Japan, India, Germany, France, in that order. (Gross World Product: $47 trillion) Britain's share in world output in 1900 was about 17% (about the same as its share of world TRADE). <br />Both Britain's trade share and output share will continue to decline in the future, with correspondingly declining ranks. <br />To be beaten on both counts by France of all countries must be like rubbing salt into the aging lion's wounds - France after all had historically lagged behind Britain economically (i.e., at least since Napoleon, if not before), not to mention militarily.<br />The story of Britain's decline and fall is not yet over, as it still holds Gibraltar, Falklands, Bermuda, among other hotspots. In time, Britain will lose them all, as its military power cannot be sustained by a weak economic base. While Britain remains within America's good graces, it will still be able to make a difference (i.e., hold onto them). But this will not last forever. Also, the final chapter will be the most interesting of all: Scotland independence and final the end of the United Kingdom (created in 1707). When this chapter will be written is hard to say, but it may be sooner than we think...<br />The British Empire is of personal interest since I happen to have been born in it (pre-1997 Hong Kong) and am still living in the British Commonwealth.  I'm a British colonial by birth and association.  When I became a Canadian citizen, I was required to swear allegiance to the British monarch.  (How I envy Americans for not having to do this any longer!  I would not hesitate to swear my allegiance to the Canadian Constitution, however.)  I cannot say I prefer this book to my other books on the British Empire, including the 20th century-volume of the Oxford Histories and the ones by Jan Morris, Niall Ferguson, Trevor O. Lloyd and Denis Judd.  But this is a short one-volume work, which is its main advantage. <br />This book is a very elementary review and overview.  My own copy is the illustrated version and I found a number of inaccuracies in it - such as saying Patten's handing over his territory \\"to Hong Kong\\" (he was handing it over to China, as most people know by now).  The quality of this author's research is just so-so, I'm afraid.	2003-04-24
US	39352452	R1QBZZKDNZU98G	0679729941	133815702	Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lives	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Outstanding	I haven't been able to find the new edition, but I've read the first edition very thoroughly.  If you read only one book about the last century, this would be it.<br />If Bullock will continue to revise in the future, I have two suggestions.  Write more about Stalin (to make this book more balanced) and add Mao to the mix.  There are very interesting parallels - both similarities and contrasts - among this most unholy trinity of dictators.	2003-04-05
US	39352452	R24CNFJRQG21JC	0679729941	133815702	Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lives	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Outstanding	I haven't been able to find the new edition, but I've read the first edition very thoroughly.  If you read only one book about the last century, this would be it.<br />If Bullock will continue to revise in the future, I have two suggestions.  Write more about Stalin (to make this book more balanced) and add Mao to the mix.  There are very interesting parallels - both similarities and contrasts - among this most unholy trinity of dictators.	2003-04-05
US	39352452	R34BKHC02ZHU9C	0226631877	420222478	Ancient Mesopotamia: Portrait of a Dead Civilization	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Classic Introduction	Georges Roux's outstanding book on ancient Iraq - which opens my eyes - seems amateurish compared to this one - probably the single best introduction to ancient Mesopotamia written in the English language.<br />Iraq's civilization is interesting for two reasons. From a purely archaeological/anthropological point of view, ancient Mesopotamia is by far the oldest civilization on this planet - even older than Egypt. The reasons why there's much less attention to it than to Egypt are the fact that there are so few monumental structures remaining there and the fact that Egypt is closer to the Graeoco-Roman civilization.<br />The other reason why Iraq's civilization is interesting is its potential importance IN THE FUTURE. With the war's outcome almost certain (truly it's like an Iron Age army crushing a Stone Age one), Iraq's long term prospects are quite good. Sitting on the second largest proven crude oil reserves in the world, Iraq has the potential to wield much influence, like Saudi Arabia.<br />Useful (but rather short) bibilography and glossary.<br />Oppenheim regrets not being able to make this book \\"twice the size of the present one.\\" (p.334)  I only regret that this book ISN'T  three times as long.  If this book isn't flying off the shelves, it should be. Get it before it's too late.  <br />(Warning: This book does not include the Sumerian civilization, as the author makes explicit.  For this subject you must turn to Sam N. Kramer.)	2003-03-23
US	39352452	R3PK43TXI5OSDO	0760313466	347037526	Illustrated Directory of Modern American Weapons	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well illustrated	This handy volume is a pocket catalog of the latest American hardware.  It's quite up-to-date, though I'm in no position to assess its accuracy or comprehensiveness.<br />The contents are as follow: Intro, Strategic Weapons Systems, Combat Aircraft, Support Aircraft, Special Electronic & Reconnaissance Aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, Air-to-Air Missiles, Air-to-Surface Weapons, Surface Weapons, Submarines, Naval Weapons Systems, Tanks and Fighting Vehicles, Land Warfare-Indirect Fire Weapons, Land Warfare-Direct Fire Weapons, Air Defense Systems, Small Arms.<br />What this book lacks is an Index, and Sources and Bibilography. <br />A useful overview of the equipment of the most powerful military in the world.  Have it by your side as you watch CNN.	2003-03-20
US	39352452	R24Z66GNJ2QHHN	0684834197	499613390	MacArthur's War : Korea and the Undoing of an American Hero	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Fine Book	Weintraub is a serious scholar and a Korean vet. This book is credible because it matches the records as written down by the key players, such as George Marshall, Omar Bradley, Harry Truman, Eisenhower, and Samuel Morison.<br />Weintraub shows that MacArthur was paralysed at Pearl Harbor. Marshall called him and gave him a string of emergency instructions. MacArthur performed none of them. Instead he sat on his bed and read the bible, The result? Clark Field was bombed and most of the B-17 Flying Fortresses were destroyed.<br />When the Chinese surprised him in Korea, he panicked and wanted to get out completely. He sent a 38-page plan to the Joint Chiefs asking to get all troops and equipment out to Japan. He wanted Korea abandoned - another Dunkirk. Then Gen. O.P. Smith said, \\"Impossible. We don't have to lose this war. We can stay in Korea.\\"<br />MacArthur took a grand total of 13 photo-op trips to Korea, staying from 90 minutes to three or four hours at a time. He never spent a day or night in Korea. Instead, he ran the war from his headquarters in Tokyo, which he loved because it overlooked the Emperor's Palace.<br />He thought America lost China because of politicians' incompetence. The truth is, Chiang Kai-shek's corruption and incompetence lost China. <br />When he finally found Korea a useful tool in his presidential plans, he demanded atom bombs - to drop on Chinese civilians. When he was refused (by everyone around Truman, not just Truman himself), he accused Truman of betrayal.<br />MacArthur messed up the war's initial stages, and then laid the blame on Truman, etc. It required Ridgway to clean up after MacArthur, but not before thousands of American lives lost.<br />MacArthur's contempt of Truman was open. He kept his Commander-in-Chief waiting, and then did not salute him before shaking hands. Young officers on the scene took it all in, and could hardly believe their eyes. How could MacArthur expect his subordinates to obey him when he was so insubordinate himself? <br />The memoirs of Gen. Bradley and Adm. Morison are particularly valuable for those who question Weintraub's assessment. I urge all to read their damning judgment of MacArthur.<br />The Republicans who wanted to impeach Truman set up a congressional inquiry. Then to their shock and horror, every major player - from Marshall to Bradley and Acheson - supported the president fully and rebutted MacArthur's charges. The accuser had become the accused and deserved culprit.<br />Why did the conservative National Review call MacArthur \\"the five-star peacock\\"? Why did the ultra-right-wing historian Paul Johnson refuse to defend MacArthur's conduct? The fact is, MacArthur was, and is, indefensible.<br />MacArthur's long record of incompetence and insubordination went back to the days of Herbert Hoover, and beyond, when he fired murderously on protesting veterans in Washington. Then he later tried to disobey Rooselvelt, who had to shut him up with a Congressional Medal of Honour (surely the least deserved on record). This vain clown with his oversized ego and undersized brain wanted to make himself president. But he was unelectable, in the eyes of clear-headed people who didn't want World War III. \\"The best clerk I ever had,\\" as MacArthur called Eisenhower, became president, to everyone's relief (except MacArthur's). <br />FDR was right when he called MacArthur one of the two \\"most dangerous men\\" in America.  (The other was Huey Long.)  It is fitting that with time MacArthur's reputation \\"just fades away.\\" He'll not be missed......except by the Japanese. But then the Japanese always see the world in their own peculiar way.  If MacArthur is American Caesar, then I'm Jesus Christ.	2003-03-19
US	39352452	R12F67GGRE8VHX	0064610195	862666330	The HarperCollins Dictionary of Mathematics	Books	5	5	5	N	N	My First (&amp; Only) Choice	A more handy dictionary of math than this one, I have yet to find.  Profusely illustrated with equations, graphs, diagrams and charts, it is yet comprehensive enough not to miss items and entries of major importance - and it still stays within a reasonable, user-friendly size.  The only dictionary I know of that is sure to be better than this one is soon to be available: the second edition of this book, published just a few months ago.	2003-03-17
US	39352452	R174RO8O2MD50X	0684145103	622071447	History of Egypt	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Fascinating (but maybe outdated)	My copy is the Bantam 1964 reprint of the 1905 classic.  Almost a hundred years old, this book still reads surprisingly easily.  Whether it's out of date or not, I'm in no position to judge, not being an expert in this field.  But I'd assume that a lot of archaeological discoveries must have been made in the last century to make this book somewhat obsolete.<br />Breasted was the first and foremost American Egyptologist, the founder of the prestigious Oriental Institute of Chicago (the premier archaeology academy in America - featured in Indiana Jones), and the first archaeologist elected to the National Academy of Sciences.(He was also a former President of the American Historical Association, and must have been the only person to have both honors.)  I particularly like his opinions of Thuthmosis III, whose 3450th passing is today.<br />Two other books that may shed some light on the recent findings are &quot;Egypt of the Pharaohs&quot; by Sir Alan Gardiner and &quot;The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt&quot; edited by Ian Shaw.	2003-03-16
US	39352452	R1BLOJ1HESZI0D	9810070829	571658447	Asia Rising	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extraordinary & Comprehensive Survey	First, a bit of bad news: Rohwer died in a boating accident in France in Sept, 2001. So there won't be a second edition to this or any of his other books.<br />Rohwer (Berkeley MA in Economics, Harvard JD), who was an investment banker with CSFB in Hong Kong, brought a unique set of qualifications to his research. Some people criticized Rohwer for failing to predict the Asian economic crisis in 1998. (One book has the title: \\"Asia Falling\\".) But he did, on page 18: \\"My guess in that, around 2000, Asia's economic growth will suddenly slow down.\\" This book was first published in 1995, so he saw it coming - even though his timing wasn't perfect. The fact that he made such a prediction, contrary to the tone and theme of his own book, is suggestive. Rohwer was prophetic.<br />Rohwer's sequel: \\"Remade in America\\" is just as good. Writing at the height of America's boom, he saw America's slowdown coming, and went on to suggest continuing strength in China's growth. Nothing has happened so far to contradict anything Rohwer wrote.  At $6 trillion China is, according to the CIA World Factbook, the world's second largest economy and 13% of the world's total (Gross World Product: $47 in PPP), an economic giant which is expanding much faster than any major economy in the world - including India's.  China is anything but \\"a modest country at best.\\" (Bill Emmott)<br />Other books I also recommend include \\"Thunder from the East\\" by Nicholas Kristof & Sheryl WuDunn. This couple won the Pulitzer Prize for the NY Times for their China reporting, and their CVs are sterling. \\"The Rise of China\\" by William Overholt (Harvard BA, Yale PhD), a former banker at Bankers Trust in Hong Kong, is slightly dated, but shows the brillant judgment of the author. \\"China's Economic Transformation\\" by Professor Gregory Chow, Princeton University's former chief of econometrics, brings Chow's specialist quantitative skills to bear on an authoritative analysis of China's economy. All these authors would nodoubt support Rohwer's findings and applaud his outstanding research. I myself can't praise Rohwer enough.	2003-03-15
US	39352452	R227OTYO9HAESY	0375703012	779305545	Thunder from the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Slightly Over-optimistic	I think the authors have gone overboard in their rosy opinions. But I do recommend this book highly because they did their homework by interviewing lots of people on the ground in China. Their resumes are also sterling: Kristof is a NY Times editor, Harvard grad with a first-class honors in Law from Oxford, where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar, and his wife, the co-author, is a Harvard MBA who shared a Pulitzer Prize with him for their China reporting. Some credentials.	2003-03-15
US	39352452	R2P11ZT16YB0CP	0375703012	779305545	Thunder from the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Slightly Over-optimistic	I think the authors have gone overboard in their rosy opinions.  But I do recommend this book highly because they did their homework by interviewing lots of people on the ground in China.  Their resumes are also sterling: Kristof is a NY Times editor, Harvard grad with a first-class honors from Oxford, where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar, and his wife, the co-author, is a Harvard MBA who shared a Pulitzer Prize with him for their China reporting.  Some credentials.	2003-03-15
US	39352452	R2XYIGU6AI6339	9810070829	571658447	Asia Rising	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Extraordinary &amp; Comprehensive Survey	First, a bit of bad news: Rohwer died in a boating accident in France in Sept, 2001.  So there won't be a second edition to this or any of his other books.<br />Rohwer (Berkeley MA in Economics, Harvard JD), who was an investment banker with CSFB in Hong Kong, brought a unique set of qualifications to his research.  Some people criticized Rohwer for failing to predict the Asian economic crisis in 1998. (One book has the title: &quot;Asia Falling&quot;.)  But he did, on page 18: &quot;My guess in that, around 2000, Asia's economic growth will suddenly slow down.&quot;  This book was first published in 1995, so he saw it coming - even though his timing wasn't perfect.  The fact that he made such a prediction, contrary to the tone and theme of his own book, is suggestive.  Rohwer was prophetic.<br />Rohwer's sequel: &quot;Remade in America&quot; is just as good.  Writing at the height of America's boom, he saw America's slowdown coming, and went on to suggest continuing strength in China's growth.  Nothing has happened so far to contradict anything Rohwer wrote.<br />Other books I also recommend include &quot;Thunder from the East&quot; by Nicholas Kristof &amp; Sheryl WuDunn.  This couple won the Pulitzer Prize for the NY Times for their China reporting, and their CVs are sterling.  &quot;The Rise of China&quot; by William Overholt (Harvard BA, Yale PhD), a former banker at Bankers Trust in Hong Kong, is slightly dated, but shows the brilliant judgment of the author.  &quot;China's Economic Transformation&quot; by Professor Gregory Chow, Princeton University's former chief of econometrics, brings Chow's specialist quantitative skills to bear on an authoritative analysis of China's economy.  All these authors would no doubt support Rohwer's findings and applaud his outstanding research.  I myself can't praise Rohwer enough.	2003-03-15
US	39352452	R3N1T34D8W3Z13	052166991X	636995957	The Cambridge Illustrated History of China	Books	5	28	48	N	N	A Pleasure to Read	This richly illustrated book (the maps are detailed and in color) is a fantastic survey of China's history from prehistory to present day. And it doesn't suffer from paying excessive attention to the modern era either, which is a fault in many Chinese histories (including Fairbank's). Excellent. Ebrey is a Sung specialist and a social historian with a PhD from Columbia.<br />Customers who are wondering whether this book is worth the price may do well to ask themselves if China is important enough to merit study.  I'm afraid it is.  China is the world's second largest economy, according to the CIA, worth $6 trillion in Purchasing Power Parity and almost 60% as large as America's.  (In nominal GDP China is in fifth place, just ahead of France.)  According to the World Trade Organization, China is now the world's fifth largest trader (in both exports and imports of goods and services), after the US, Japan, Germany, and France, and just ahead of Britain, which is sixth.  (If the EU is counted as one unit, China is fourth.)  China has the world's third largest stockpile of nuclear warheads, and has a highly developed ballistic missile technology (which is also reflected in its well-developed space program).  The Pentagon believes China will improve its nuclear deterrence in both quality and quantity.  China is one of the world's largest oil producers, with proven crude oil reserves larger than America's, according to the US Dept of Energy.  Needless to say, China is the third largest country in territory (America is almost exactly the same size) and the largest in population, and has the veto on the UN Security Council.  Two key facts make China particularly important in the future: its economic growth rate, which is the fastest in the world, and its population growth rate, which is kept under control (which is in fact lower than America's) and thus will help raise the average standard of living.  In either respect can India, China's closest competitor in the future, compete.  By one estimate China's economy will be equal in size to America's in twenty years' time.  (See Gregory Chow's \\"China's Economic Transformation\\" available here on amazon.com.)<br />So China is a very important country, both politically and economically, and will be increasingly important in the future.  Some people are already calling China the second most important country in the world.  But what fascinates many people is the fact that China has lasted so long as a country.  Indeed China's history as a unified state is ten times as long as the United States's own.  China is one of the most ancient of civilizations.  Unlike some of them - such as Babylon - China not only has survived, but it is still thriving.  People like Margaret Thatcher, Henry Kissinger, Paul Wolfowitz and Jack Welch are already predicting China to become a superpower within a generation.<br />To understand such an important country, one must know something about its history.  And this book is an excellent guide.  I recommend it to all who wish to know more about China.  I have yet to find a general historical survey of China as accurate and suitable for the beginners as it is fun and pleasurable to read, as this book.	2003-03-14
US	39352452	RJUYIHMTC4BF6	0788160389	54016391	The Military 100: A Ranking of the Most Influential Military Leaders of All Time	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting	Most of the reviewers who gave this book a low rating disagree with the rankings. I must say they all have a point. And the point is: we are not going to have a consensus on the rankings.     It's a different matter, however, if there are serious errors. Here's an example. Genghis Khan is claimed by Lanning to have been made universal khan by age 25. That's not what I know: he didn't get this title until he was 40. Lanning says Marlborough was appointed duke by William - but it was Queen Anne who appointed him duke.  William only made him earl.  Another example: Frederick the Great (#11) was called the most influential one between the time of Marlborough (#31) and the age of Napoleon (#2). Now, Washington falls right into this timeslot and Lanning has already rated him #1! If Frederick WAS the most influential one, then he should precede Washington, which contradicts Lanning's own rankings. Either the author was careless or worse (stupid).    The Eurocentric and American bias is very evident, but I don't blame him for that because this appears in all books of this kind depending on the author's own nationality. This book is more about the most influential military leaders of all time IN THE WEST. Such great military leaders as Muhammad, Qin Shihuang, Thuthmosis III (the Alexander of ancient Egypt), Ramesses II, Ogodai, Kubilai, Zhu Yuangzhang, Toyotomi Hideyoshi - these are not only not ranked, they're not even mentioned. But they are among the greatest and most influential military leaders in world history, far more important than many on Lanning's list.     Lanning's ignorance of the non-Western world is glaring. Certainly I would place Muhammad, who conquered the whole Middle East by the sword, and left a lasting legacy worldwide, way above Saxe (#24), whose name hardly rings a bell.  Lanning may not like Muhammad post-9/11, but then he has Hitler on the list.  Muhammad's conquests are far more lasting than even Alexander's.  Instead, Lanning chooses not to mention his name even once.    Lanning has military experience as an officer in the finest army in the world today. (As a Lt. Col. he is an overkill......even Liddell Hart was a mere Captain.) However, his mistakes can be hair-raising.     My own disagreements with his rankings are numerous:     Why is Stalin not on the list?  If Hitler is on the list, then Stalin should be too.  The reason for putting Konev above Zhukov is absurd (Zhukov made the Russians triumph over the Nazis, but it was Konev, Lanning argues, who was the head of the Soviet Army after WW2!!). Why is Ernest King not even mentioned, when his influence is as great as Nimitz?  Should MacArthur even be on the list? And why so high, at #20? (This spot should go to Omar Bradley.) Where is John Paul Jones? Rundstedt? Mannstein? Constantine the Great? I don't have a serious problem with placing Washington high on the list - but the first place? (Then Cornwallis should be on the list too. His failure was just as influential.) Where is Agrippa, who won the Roman Empire for Augustus? Where is Arminius, who ambushed the invincible Romans and forced them to stay forever west of the Rhine and south of the Danube?     If these great figures in military history are not on the list, then Lanning should explain why, and mention their names. That's what Michael Hart, the originator of the 100 lists, did in his book. Why should Mao be so low (#40), Wellington be above Marlborough, and Lin Piao and Chiang Kai-shek be even on the list at all? Judging by Lanning's criterion for his rankings, the most influential military leader of all time, in my opinion, is unfortunately Adolf Hitler, whose legacy the whole world will have to live with forever.    Missing are sources, bibliography, AND MAPS (a shocking omission for military history).    Also, a separate chapter discussing the sociological and psychological aspects of ranked leaders - to me the most interesting chapter in Michael Hart's original book - would seem absolutelynecessary.  (Hart even singles out a medical mystery among the great: a high incidence of gout!)  Personally I'd be curious to know the relationship between a talent for mathematics and military leadership.  There seems to be a correlation.  Whether there's a causal relationship is another matter.  Certainly Napoleon, Omar Bradley, and U.S. Grant were good at math, as indeed was Washington, who was once a surveyor - a good indication of their high intelligence, at the very least.    I'm unwilling to give this book more than 2.5 stars. If I could rate this book on a 1-10 scale, I'd give it 5. In the spirit of generosity, I'd round it up to 3 stars.	2003-03-14
US	39352452	R1QNN7QVMHMUZC	0738204951	615408616	Conquering Statistics: Numbers Without the Crunch	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Fun	I agree entirely with the point made by the other reviewer - actually Weaver's &quot;What Are the Odds?&quot; is far worse. There are ten pages of jokes for every page of useful data.<br />I read this book not for enlightenment but for entertainment.  It's a fun way to waste time.	2003-03-09
US	39352452	R3A9MU3Q34S82P	0486296725	606915359	Game Theory: A Nontechnical Introduction (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	41	68	N	N	Recreational Read	There seems to be a whole cottage industry of books on Game Theory.  Not many of them are non-technical, and this is probably the shortest of them.  So this is a plus to those with no background and who may not go any further.  This book suffers from being slightly out of date.<br />Game Theory is a subfield not of mathematics but of economics.  This despite the fact that one of the greatest mathematicians, Von Neumann, had invented this and that at the advanced level it demands a good deal of higher math.  This is a reason why John Nash won the Nobel for economics - and not a Fields Medal (for mathematics).<br />I think it's dangerous to make life-and-death decisions based on Game Theory.  First, it's hardly a real science, only the application of mathematics to social questions.  Second, you can easily make an error in your calculations.<br />This brings to mind Franklin's moral algebra.  He advised a friend (Priestly, I think) on how to make intelligent decisions: by dividing the pros and cons into two columns, then giving a value to each in terms of importance (1-10, for example), adding up both columns and comparing the two sums.  The larger sum should be the decision.  And then he cautioned that real decisions are not necessarily made in this scientific way, although the exercise really sharpens your thinking.  At a minimum it forces you to think of all possible pros and cons of a problem.  In the end, though, one big pro/con (or two) may decide the matter.  And even then, you can't be sure you've made the right decision because maybe you've forgotten something in the arithmetic.  Still this is a rational way to think something through, especially on major questions.<br />The utility of Game Theory is likely to be much less than Franklin's scheme because PEOPLE IN THE REAL WORLD DON'T BOTHER USING IT.  Would Roosevelt and Truman have done much better when dealing with Stalin if they had been acquainted with Game Theory?  I doubt it, although Game Theory impressed some of the geeks in the Pentagon.  (Nor vice versa.  Stalin would have just laughed if somebody had tried to \\"sell\\" him this academic exercise.  He relied on his own judgment.)  To this day I have yet to hear that Game Theory is the secret of success of top managers like Jack Welch, Warren Buffett and Sandy Weill.<br />This book is a good intro to the field and teaches you the basic vocab specialists use.  Read it like a book on recreational brainteasers, and you'll have lots of fun.  I know I did.sed some of the geeks in the Pentagon.  (Nor vice versa.  Stalin would have just laughed if somebody had tried to \\"sell\\" him this academic exercise.  He relied on his own judgment.)  To this day I have yet to hear that Game Theory is the secret of success of top managers like Jack Welch, Warren Buffett and Sandy Weill.  <br />This book is a good intro to the field and teaches you the basic vocab specialists use.  Read it like a book on recreational brainteasers, and you'll have lots of fun.  I know I did.	2003-03-09
US	39352452	R3JLB38Z6PR98E	0486248232	752705732	Mathematics for the Nonmathematician	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Entertaining	Kline, a noted historian and educator of mathematics, wrote a book that stands the test of time.  This isn't of much use to anyone with high-school math who doesn't care to know why math is the way it is.  For everyone else, this is a good book.  Solutions to problems at the end of the book are very handy.  I recommend this book along with Timothy Gowers's &quot;Mathematics: A Very Short Introduction&quot;.	2003-03-08
US	39352452	R2ZKPTD7UCYXG4	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Sadly Prophetic	America used to be looked up to and admired by billions of people all over the world. This remained true thoughout the post-war period, up until the end of the Gulf War, when America emerged as the only superpower. But things are now beginning to change.<br />Poll after poll conducted by Pew Research in Washington DC show that the goodwill of the world after 911 has been squandered. America is now more unpopular than it has ever been, both in Europe and in Russia, in rich and poor countries, and in Muslim and non-Muslim countries alike. Even more alarming is the fact that most Americans are unaware of this, believing that America is still loved and admired all over the world. On the contrary, America is disliked and distrusted.<br />No doubt a major cause of this is envy. But this does not explain why America was so popular before, when the rest of the world was even poorer relative to America. And is this merely a hint of things to come? Nye's warning will be remembered as prophetic. No one can accuse this bright fellow of not explaining the dangers of risking unpopularity by going it alone; one day Nye can say: \\"I told you so.\\"<br />Nye's thesis, shared by such respected Republican Senators as Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, is that America cannot solve many problems by itself. For instances, Pakistan's cooperation is crucial to capturing Bin Laden; Russia's cooperation may be necessary over Iran and Syria; China is absolutely vital to ANY solution of the North Korean crisis; Saudi Arabia's attitude is important in the war on terrorists; and Europe's assistance may still be required for the reconstruction of Iraq, the long term costs of which will be astronomical for America to bear alone.  Also, America risks making even MORE enemies by persisting in going it alone. Nye's thesis is valid no matter who is president.<br />This is an excellent book (one of several) by an brilliant Harvard scholar who's a liberal. Read it along with books by Henry Kissinger - an ex-Harvardscholar who's a conservative. They have a lot in common in their views - not because of Harvard, but because they happen to be right.  (Samuel Huntington, also from Harvard, is an irresponsible fantast and a selective viewer of facts.)  Both are brilliant and superb analysts and forecasters, not ivory tower system-builders, but practical, case-by-case, keen observers with a sense of history and the ability to see the forest for the trees (and if need be the leaves too).	2003-03-08
US	39352452	RF6UB5SMHFNBA	1898855536	85571568	Joseph Stiglitz and the World Bank: The Rebel Within (Anthem Studies in Development and Globalization)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thought and Works of Chairman Joe	Stiglitz, who is the former Chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and Chief Economist of the World Bank, won the 2001 Nobel Prize in Economics (younger than Milton Friedman had been when he won his Nobel).  This moderate pragmatist can hardly be called a soft leftie and yet his stinging attack on the IMF and the World Bank (both organizations intensely disliked by Republican rightwingers) is both surprising......and perfectly justified, in my view.  He develops this theme more fully in his other book &quot;Globalization and Its Discontents,&quot; while this small book is a good extract of his economic philosophy.  In his many public speeches and statements Chairman Joe lends the full weight of his considerable authority to China-boosters and China-lovers everywhere.  But his frequently expressed optimism of China's economic prospects is not his main point - he uses China as an example to show why and how you can avoid messing things up if you use the right methods.	2003-03-06
US	39352452	R2H24AZL4ZN953	1842124439	272276360	Phoenix: The Triumph of The West (Phoenix Press)	Books	5	19	29	N	N	Fascinating	William H. McNeill emphasizes the importance of cultural interchange in the rise and fall of great civilizations.  I think Roberts goes wrong here when he neglects to point out the critical role played by the Mongols in disseminating Chinese technology to Europe - things such as the compass, paper, printing and gunpowder, which quickly enabled Europeans to circumnavigate and settle the globe.  <br />Certainly both McNeill and Joseph Needham, the distinguished British historian of science, would dispute one of Roberts's main points: that Europe owed nothing to the rest of the world for its subsequent \\"triumph\\".  At the very least Roberts presents a one-sided view.<br />Historically China has been the richest and the most powerful civilization in the world.  The last few centuries saw the rise and dominance of Europeans, who not only created the scientific and industrial revolutions but who aggressively explored and settled the whole world.  It remains to be seen whether China will be able to catch up.  Even if it resumes its former position as the leading civilization, it remains a question whether it can reverse Western dominance everywhere.  The sinologist John K. Fairbank despairs of this possibility.  Others aren't so sure.  Roberts himself has doubts about the \\"triumph\\" of the West; hence the chapters entitled \\"A Sense of Decline\\", and \\"A Post-Western World?\\"<br />I think we must be clear about what time-frame we're talking about when discussing what the future holds for world history.  The triumph of the West is not likely to be a mere afterthought even two or three hundred years from now.  But all bets are off if our time-frame is extended to over a thousand years.<br />What is a thousand years?  Roberts's own analogy is excellent when discussing relative timespans in his \\"History of the World\\".  If \\"one minute\\" is compared to a hundred years, then mankind began to evolve from apelike creatures about \\"two or three weeks\\" ago, developed writing much less than \\"an hour\\" ago, and Christianity was born about \\"twenty minutes\\" ago, while Europeans began to settle in the Americas about \\"five minutes\\" ago, and of course both the two world wars and the cold war happened within the last \\"60 seconds\\".<br />To a paleontologist, the appearance of apelike creatures would itself seem like a mere instant ago because the dinosaurs only died about \\"450 days\\" ago and life first appeared on Earth as early as \\"60 YEARS\\" ago.  To an astronomer even this is short:  the Universe is over \\"two and a half centuries\\" old.  And if Sir Martin Rees of Cambridge is correct then \\"our\\" Universe is only the latest in an endless series - itself one series among countless others - stretching back to infinity.<br />So, using our analogy, what is the shape of the world to come \\"ten minutes\\" from now?  Will the West still be the dominant civilization?  I think China can afford to take its time, having existed as an independent civilization for at least \\"half an hour\\" by now.  After all \\"ten minutes\\" ago even England was under foreign rule (first by the Danes and then by the French).  <br />But will the Earth still be habitable in the fourth millennium?  That's much harder to say.  Of course, not even a nuclear war or a giant asteroid can wipe out all life on Earth; evolution will start all over again much as it did when the dinosaurs died.  Only when the Sun dies or if our solar system gets sucked into a giant black hole will life disappear from Earth.  So there's always hope and cause for optimism.<br />This is an excellent book.  I'd love to see Roberts bring it up to date and speculate a bit on the future.	2003-02-16
US	39352452	R2IJ0BZM9CKRL2	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	1	14	34	N	N	Out of Touch with Reality	Where is the united front in Huntington's beloved \\"Western Christendom\\"?  The gulf between Western Europe and the US - over everything from Iraq to Kyoto - is widening at such a rapid rate, even the blind and deaf know about it.  Huntington can kiss his flight of fantasy goodbye.  Some of his facts may be right.  But his interpretation shows immaturity, a complete lack of touch with reality, a poor understanding of world history, and racism.  A  C- thesis by a graduate student majoring in international relations at a third-rate college can beat this book hands down.<br />Hitler in his youth used to read this kind of trashy treatises for enlightenment.  Among them some were written by an unfrocked monk named Joerg Lanz von Liebenfels, Houston Stewart Chamberlain, and of course Spengler.  That's how he formed his worldview.  Nowadays, young extremists in the Islamic countries are doing the same - only the authors are now different.  The educated ones (remember some of the 911 hijackers had university degrees) pick up this kind of books and see their burning hatred of America fully justified.  People like Huntington have a lot of responsibility to bear for future calamities to befall America.	2003-02-15
US	39352452	R31V9SADB5XE2J	007137048X	680504370	Stocks for the Long Run : The Definitive Guide to Financial Market Returns and Long-Term Investment Strategies	Books	3	14	32	N	N	Long Run Indeed	I checked the latest numbers: stocks are now trading below the post-911 dip, across the board.  Since August, 2000, stock prices fell a nice and tidy 50%.  That's 50 cents gone for every dollar invested in just the past two and a half years.  There's no end in sight for this downward trend.<br />Either you have to be stock-savvy like Warren Buffett, or you must be patient and wait for the rebound in the future.  Siegel's idea of a &quot;long run&quot; is REALLY long......something like 50 years.<br />If you're in your teens and twenties, Siegel's book should be a great comfort and an educational tool.  Otherwise, bear in mind that buying this book will not help you get rich quick.<br />But Siegel will.  And that's nice to know.  Whatever the market may be.  Good for him.<br />Which reminds me of a story about Levi jeans.  The guy made tons of money in the Gold Rush, but not from the gold.  He sold jeans to the prospectors.  That's how Mr. Levi got rich.  Whether he found any gold - whether there WAS any gold - or not, hardly mattered.<br />Did Siegel make a bundle in stocks?  Only he knows.  In any case the most successful investors won't let on what they buy (until it's too late of course), because if they do, they wouldn't be rich.  Only moderately successful and totally unsuccessful investors write book about stocks.  Even Benjamin Graham was broke when he wrote &quot;Security Analysis&quot;.  A sobering thought.<br />This book is full of charts and tables to convince even the most cynical about the wonders of stocks for the long run. Of course Siegel is right......except that everyone has their own idea of &quot;long run&quot;, and it may not be what Siegel has in mind.	2003-02-13
US	39352452	R2K2WEL6U9TNIQ	063123330X	671681242	China's Economic Transformation	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Comprehensive Review of China's Economy	Professor Chow is a distinguished economist who is an elected member of the American Philosophical Society and the former chief of econometrics at Princeton University. His statements carry some weight. The key point of this book may be summarized in this sentence: \\"Hence the Chinese economy can be expected to generate about the same real GDP as the US economy in 1998 PPP terms in 2020.\\" (p.103)<br />In other words, China will be an economic superpower rivalling America in 20 years' time. <br />Barring an unforeseen disaster - like an asteroid from outer space or World War III - Chow's prognostication may turn out right. What does that mean? Well, China will be resuming its former position as an economic superpower which it has occupied throughout history. <br />The most surprising and controversial part is Chow's contention that China's population is too small (chapter 11). He considers a number of factors in making this odd point, including arguments by Malthus and counter-arguments by Mao, as well as a number of intangibles (like the higher number of intellectual elites available from a larger population base). I think he goes wrong here, because he doesn't seem to have considered one serious fact: most of China is neither arable nor habitable - virtually useless - large though the country may be. What's more, the amount of usable land is getting less by the day, due to desertification from the north. China is bone dry.<br />Customers who are wondering whether this book is worth the price to invest in would do well to reflect on China's importance on the world stage. China is one-fifth of humanity and is exactly equal to America in territorial size. China has the world's third largest stockpile of nuclear warheads. (The Pentagon believes China's stockpile will quadruple in the next decades fully in line with its economic expansion.) China has a highly developed rocket and ballistic missile technology, and has publicly announced its intention to be the world's third nation to launch astronauts into space (to be realized in late 2003). China is one of the top ten oil producing countries, with larger proven crude oil reserves than America's (the largest in the Fast East - much larger than Indonesia's). China's relations with Muslim countries are excellent, and is probably the only major power to be popular among people of that faith. China has the veto on the Security Council. The WTO recently reported that China overtook Britain in 2002 as the world's fifth largest trader in goods and services, after the US, Japan, Germany and France.  If the EU is counted as one unit, China is now the fourth largest trader.  And according to the CIA World Factbook, China's economy is already the second largest in Purchasing Power Parity (the fifth largest in nominal GDP), and at $6 trillion it is 13% of the world's total. <br />Now Chow is telling us that China's rapid growth rate is an average of 7% per year for the next two decades, which is by far the fastest among the major powers (about twice India's, three times America's, and more than four-five times Europe's and Japan's). <br />In short, China is already a giant today (hardly the \\"modest\\" country as described by Bill Emmott of the Economist). People like Margaret Thatcher, Jack Welch and Paul Wolfowitz are already predicting China's rise to superpower status. And the economic transformation taking place there, fully and professionally detailed by Chow, will make it much bigger still. On top of all these, China today is also interesting because it is the oldest civilization among the major powers (America, China, Britain, Russia, Germany, Japan) and by far the biggest of the surviving ancient civilizations: Mesopotamia (Iraq), Egypt, Palestine, Persia (Iran), China, India. <br />Of course, China's per capita income will remain relatively low for the foreseeable future, but given the size of its population China will be a superpower long before it achieves American levels of income and standards of living - a prospect that is beyond the timeframe of this book.<br />Overall this book is excellent - serious and credible, without being excessively technical. It fills a big niche, and meets the needs of students, journalists, businessmen, Western observers and analysts alike. All of us should pay attention to the most significant event of the late 20th century and early 21st - the transformation of China's economy - and this book is an authoritative guide. It deserves 6 stars out of 5.	2003-02-03
US	39352452	R21TB9KK1F7LW9	0679720197	551664662	The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers	Books	4	17	20	N	N	Update the Book, Mr. Kennedy!	Now is a good time to &quot;audit&quot; Kennedy's books.  <br />His Pollyannaish faith in Japan (which he emphasized even more in his other book) now seems totally misplaced.  <br />He completely failed to see the coming collapse of the Soviet Union - happening merely three years after publication!  (He thought nothing short of war could cause it.) <br />Still on the debit side, but far less important, is his lack of confidence in Europe's prospect for unity.  The jury is still out on this, but I tend to be less jeremian than Kennedy.  (I think a United States of Europe is within sight in anyone's lifetime.)<br />On the credit side, his prophetic vision of China's rise has been fulfilled beyond expectations. (He did himself discredit by casting doubts on this in his other book.....perhaps as a result of Tiananmen Square.)<br />Above all, his Cassandra's warning for the United States remains, in my opinion, valid, despite winning the Cold War.  With terrorism, skyrocketing defense spending, and another war impending, America is still at great risk of &quot;imperial overstretch&quot;.<br />The bottom line seems to be that Kennedy's main thesis is correct, although his fortune-telling powers seem just average for such a gifted historian.  This book deserves a B-.  (But this is a much better grade than I would deign to give Huntington for his &quot;Clash of Civilizations&quot;, or Bobbitt for his &quot;Shield of Achilles&quot;.)<br />So much has happened in the 15 years since publication, that there ought to be a substantial revision of the last chapter at least.  We eagerly await it.	2003-01-29
US	39352452	R2MIPSEK5RIS7C	0684811642	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	1	12	30	N	N	Simplistic	Huntington has a lot to explain why the rapid trade growth between China on the one hand and America, Germany and Russia on the other cannot promote cultural interchange and reduce the possibility of a clash between the three different civilizations represented here.<br />Bush can't seem to get France and Germany to go along on Iraq, yet both are obviously part of the \\"Western Christendom\\" civilization to which America belongs.<br />China is changing fast economically.  Eventually, and however slowly, China will also change and liberalize politically.  It won't be like America any time soon, but it will not be what it used to be either.<br />America is itself changing.  In 50 years time whites will be in the minority, though the largest minority.  America is thus becoming less and less Eurocentric by the day.  <br />The gulf between America and Europe is widening.  I don't know if America and China are on a collision course many years down the road, as Huntington claims, but I do know that if they are Europe won't be on America's side. <br />Russia will have so much to lose in a conflict with China that any attempt on America's part to get Russia involved will be futile.	2003-01-22
US	39352452	R23MAFLIXHWDWK	0375412921	122896159	The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace, and the Course of History	Books	1	30	63	N	N	Obscurum per obscurius	It took me not long to find this book's Achilles' heel, so to speak: its unintelligibility.  I've never said this before about any other book I've reviewed so far, but I must be frank here: I don't have a clue what this pundit is trying to say, despite numerous attempts at understanding.  I feel like a deaf man sailing in dense fog through icebergs.  Here and there I feel I've hit something substantial, and then it disappears just as suddenly as it came; meanwhile I feel no sense of the direction I'm being led in, merely a sense of dread.  Bobbitt invokes the Almighty in his dedication and again in his very last sentence, but what in God's name are the key messages to take home if you're a policy maker?  Does he think Bush, Jiang, Putin, Sandy Weill, or Prince Sultan ibn Sa'ud  has the time and patience to wade through 900 pages of a guru's theoretical ball-juggling on a tightrope that still leaves them scratching their heads at the end?  It truly takes a fine lawyer overstuffed with first-class book-learning to reach this height of obscurantism: verbose, pretentious, impressionist, ivory-tower.  The contrast with the brilliant, cystal-clear prose of Paul Kennedy's &quot;The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers&quot; is like night and day, even though both Bobbitt and Kennedy seem to be writing about the same subjects.<br />This tome is the emperor's latest invisible cloak intended to impress gullible poli-sci/IR students.  I advise people to go back to Henry Kissinger's &quot;Diplomacy&quot;, Samuel Huntington's &quot;The Clash of Civilizations&quot;, Margaret Thatcher's &quot;Statecraft&quot;, and Joseph Nye's new books.  These authors (from both sides of the ideological spectrum) may or may not be right, and you may or may not agree entirely with their views - but at least you are left IN NO DOUBT as to what they mean when you put these books down.  For those with a history bent, read Kennedy, Eric Hobsbawm, William H. McNeill (especially his fantastic &quot;The Rise of the West&quot;), and J.M. Roberts's &quot;History of the World&quot;.  And, please, forget about books on international law.	2003-01-13
US	39352452	RMG4RA61BI0IU	0151472602	30582987	The Kingdom: Arabia & The House of Sa'ud	Books	4	4	5	N	N	New Edition Needed	I'm not in a position to judge the quality of Lacey's data because I have no other books on Saudi Arabia.  (Daniel Yergin's oil epic The Prize, though indispensable, is also out of date.) I find this book very entertaining to read.  But in any case Lacey ought to consider writing an updated edition.  With war looming on the horizon, terrorists coming from this country, and oil prices so unstable (partly due to Venezuela) we badly need to know more about this fascinating country.  Saudi Arabia is a good deal more important than most countries.  In particular the personalities of Crown Prince Abdullah and Defense Minister Prince Sultan need to be dwellt upon in more detail.  We also need more info on the politics and economics of Saudi oil.	2003-01-13
US	39352452	R34VMT5OQGAEZA	0375412921	122896159	The Shield of Achilles: War, Peace, and the Course of History	Books	1	22	54	N	N	Obscurum per obscurius	It took me not long to find this book's Achilles' heel, so to speak: its unintelligibility.  Bobbitt's book-learning is first-class, but I don't have a clue what he is trying to say, despite numerous attempts at understanding.  I feel like a deaf man sailing through dense fog among icebergs.  Here and thereI feel I've hit something substantial, and then it disappears just as suddenly as it came; meanwhile I feel no sense of the direction I'm drifting in, merely a sense of dread. Bobbitt invokes the Almighty in his dedication and in his last sentence, but what in God's name is the message(s) to take home if you're a policy maker? Does he think Bush, Jiang, Putin, Sandy Weill or Crown Prince Abdullah has the time and patience to wade through 900 pages of a guru's theoretical ball-juggling on a tight rope that still leaves them scratching their heads at the end? It truly takes a fine lawyer to hit Bobbitt's height of obscurantism. The contrast with the brilliant crystal clarity of Paul Kennedy's \\"Rise and Fall\\" is like day and night, even though both seem to be writing about the same subjects.<br />This tome is the emperor's latest invisible cloak intended to impress gullible graduate poli-sci/IR classes. I advise readers to go back to Kissinger's \\"Diplomacy\\", Thatcher's \\"Statecraft\\", and Joseph Nye's latest books. They may or may not be right, and you may or may not agree entirely with them - but at least you are left IN NO DOUBT what they mean. For those with a history bent, read Kennedy, Eric Hobsbaum, William H. McNeill and JM Roberts.	2003-01-13
US	39352452	R169N0YEXC2FF3	0070289433	316175407	Joseph Stalin: man and legend	Books	5	17	18	N	N	My Favorite Book on the Man of Steel	New books are still being written about Stalin, of course, incorporating new and interesting material from the newly opened files of the old Soviet Union. But none that I know of can compare with Hingley's. <br />Significantly, Hingley's most important facts concerning the dictator are still basically correct, while his judgment remains absolutely sterling. By all means read Volkogonov's new book - it's excellent - but there's not much in the newly discovered facts which renders Hingley's opinions and verdict wrong or obsolete. Don't forget, some of the mysteries surrounding Stalin's career, like the question of who really killed Kirov - probably Stalin did -  will always remain unsolved because Stalin had all those involved put to death in the nick of time, while what files we may still have are merely those he had not destroyed. With his clerk-like mania for files, and his vampire-like bloodthirstiness, Stalin was very thorough in eliminating ALL evidence, whether in the form of paper.......or flesh and blood. So there's a real limit to how much new we can ever know.<br />I have most of the most important books ever written on Stalin in the English language, and none I know has managed to be so detached and objective on the one hand, and so devastatingly, gut-splittingly funny on the other, as Hingley's. Stalin's life is a deadly serious story if there ever was one, and Hingley manages to be humorous and scholarly at the same time - no mean feat.  This book is a gem.<br />I think the three important things to remember about the little (he was 5'3\\", shorter than Napoleon) Georgian-turned-Russian Bolshevik is that he rose (contrary to his own and everyone's expectations) from nothing to become THE most powerful person who EVER lived in ALL human history, by far; that this murderous TYRANT played a key role (unwillingly at first) in the destruction of HITLER and Nazi Germany; and that he assisted (without desiring it) in the resurgence of CHINA.  Of course he also gave a bad, bad name to Marxism......not that anyone else could have done any better!!<br />This is one of the finest books I've ever read and possessed.  Finding it was a great stroke of luck.	2003-01-11
US	39352452	R2V2C0UPNO739U	0385484917	600360522	Buffett: The Making of an American Capitalist	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Fine Book about a Great Investor	What interests me is not how smart Buffett is - of course he is smart - but how lucky he is.  He himself put it well: If he had been born in Brazil, or somewhere other than America, he could have ended up a bum on the street.  His talents would not have met their opportunities.  Too young to fight in the second world war, he was old enough to avoid the draft for Korea and Vietnam.  Another example of his luck would be meeting Ben Graham at Columbia....after he had been turned down by his first choice: Harvard Business School.<br />Graham was a genius in investing.  But he was nearly bankrupt by 40 years of age, wiped out by the Crash along with everyone else.  He died wealthy - worth only a million or two!  When Security Analysis came out of the printers Graham could hardly point to his own investing career as a succesful example of his own abilities.<br />It says much about Buffett's own genius that he immediately recognized Graham's philosophy as the correct one, at a time when nobody had heard of Graham.<br />My personal feeling is that Buffett and Graham are right in the way they approach investing. Unfortunately, too many people in America share my feeling now, and the general interest in stocks makes investing in stocks much less rewarding than it used to be.  Those who are still interested in making money through stocks should look elsewhere, outside America.  Not that stocks are the only way to wealth, of course.	2003-01-11
US	39352452	R3QN5KP5PM62TD	0871138298	427687041	The China Dream: The Quest for the Last Great Untapped Market on Earth	Books	1	19	41	N	N	A Nightmare of a Book	This poorly written book suffers from many flaws, not the least of which is the author's lack of access to informed sources. One of the most important things one needs to do when writing a book of this sort is interviewing the CEOs of Fortune 500 companies, and this author has failed to do this, the most basic homework.<br />For every anecdote one can easily find a hundred anecdotes making the opposite point. If you choose your anecdotes with care, you can prove almost anything. I don't find Studwell's conclusions very convincing. Studwell's choice of historical cases are misleading. When China was prosperous, it was a closed country. By the time Europeans were able to invest, China was in the midst of war and revolution. After the war China was closed again (except to Soviets). The last two decades of reform were also unsuitable for foreign investment, due to structural instability.<br />If Studwell is right, then I have a hard time understanding why:<br />(a) Henry Kissinger called China \\"the most ascendant\\" among all contemporary world powers (Europe included) ;<BR>(b) Paul Wolfowitz (Deputy Sec. of Defense) said China will soon achieve superpower status within 50 years (by 2025 at the earliest), adding \\"and that's pretty fast by historical standards\\"; <BR>(c) Jack Welch (of GE) predicted China will be \\"very competitive\\" and advised managers doing pie charts to \\"leave half the pie\\" for the Chinese, who will \\"threaten your very existence\\";<BR>(d) Margaret Thatcher described China as \\"undoubtedly on course to become an economic superpower\\", and had this to say about the Chinese people: \\"everywhere they go they show the same spirit of enterprise and self-reliance, and given the right economic framework, nothing is beyond them\\";<BR>(e) Joseph Stiglitz, (Clinton's chief economics adviser, former chief economist at the World Bank & Nobel Laureate in Economics) is very bullish and optimistic about China's future, contrasting with his gloomy views of Russia; <BR>(f) Arlen Specter (US Senator, Appropriations & Judiciary Committees) called China \\"the coming colossus\\";<BR>(g) Joseph Nye and Sameul Huntington (Harvard dons) predicted China's swift rise to be a problem for the US;<BR>(h) JM Roberts and Eric Hobsbawm (British historians) used \\"superpower\\" or \\"potential superpower\\" to describe China;<BR>(i) Jeffrey Garten (Dean of Yale's School of Management) called China \\"the second most important country in the world\\";<BR>(j) Gregory Chow (distinguished Princeton econometrist) calculated China's economy (gross GDP in purchasing power parity) to be bigger than that of the US by 2025 - even allowing for flawed statistics.<br />Studwell also chose to ignore the very successful British firms operating in Hong Kong. The drug dealers who brought opium to China got fabulously rich - most were British, while a handful, like Warren Delano (FDR's grandfather), were Americans. Their wealth equalled that of the Vanderbilts. And their legacy persists to this day: the HSBC - the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation - is now the world's third most important bank.<br />Let people be swayed by the naysayers and sensationalists: it's HARDER to make money when everybody is rushing in to invest.	2003-01-10
US	39352452	R3JZDBV6YGE7H2	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Book	A good text, clearly written.  I enjoy browsing it as well as reading it carefully.  Of course, there's much the author doesn't know and thus leaves out - his treatment of China and Japan leaves much to be desired - but I think a certain amount of bias, blindspots, etc is inevitable in any single book of this kind.  They stick out like sore thumbs to readers with special interests, who naturally single them out.  Even an encyclopedia written by many people is far from bias free.  I'd only say that this is one of the best written in the English language today.  (Another would be William H. McNeill's The Rise of the West.)   Roberts sets down what he knows best, and naturally what any one person knows best is limited by his own worldview, upbringing, education, etc.<br />All books of this kind have similar weaknesses.  One without such faults would have to be almost infinite in size.	2003-01-08
US	39352452	R1VRPX3DSFSJ69	0684868318	180963670	Anticipating the Future	Books	1	1	3	N	N	You Can't Predict the Future	I don't see how it's possible to see that far ahead. To presume to spot trends well into 7000 A.D. is just absurd. Stephen Hawking doubts the human race can even last another century, and I don't think he is an oracle either.<br />Last year a medium sized asteroid was discovered just a couple of weeks before it made its nearest approach to Earth. Now if that rock had hit southern England, let's say, tens of millions of people would have died on impact, and Britain would have been wiped off the face of the Earth. The fact that it had been discovered only weeks before meant that we could have done nothing to prevent it from hitting us. If it had done so, nobody would pay much attention to Sept. 11 anymore.<br />This example illustrates the utter meaninglessness of looking into the crystal ball by studying even the broad trends. Things can happen which no one can think of, and everything changes. To their credit the authors devote only one third of the book to their crystal ball, but it's still an exercise in futility.<br />To cite further examples, no one in the early nineteenth century except de Tocqueville saw the rise of both America and Russia. He was only one hundred years ahead of his times - and that's already very impressive. Who by the turn of the century would have thought we could not only fly, but even go to the Moon? And hardly anyone knew then what treasures lay below the ground in the Arabian desert - King Abdul Aziz ibn Saud would have preferred to find water instead. But without cars oil would not have been of much use. Who could have predicted these bone-dry, dirt-poor wanderers in the sand would become the world's richest people? Certainly not the Saudis themselves. And 9/11 could not have happened without Saudi money (whether they liked it or not). <br />A series of accidents led to a radically unbelievable outcome.<br />If we had such trouble seeing just one hundred years ahead, the notion you can see anything at all several thousand years ahead is baloney.<br />No less an authority than Jack Welch, the legendary ex-Chairman of GE, makes it clear in his memoirs that you can't see far into the future. Read his book, Straight from the Gut (which incidentally was published on 9/11/01, an event which even he could not have imagined.) At the end of the book he made some predictions, which he implied were foisted on him by the publisher; but he never said they would necessarily come true.<br />For historical background I recommend three excellent books on world history: William H. McNeill's The Rise of the West, J.M. Roberts's Penguin History of the World, and Paul Kennedy's Rise and Fall of the Great Powers. Margaret Thatcher's Statecraft, Jack Welch's Straight from the Gut, and the latest books by Eric Hobsbaum, Joseph Nye and Henry Kissinger offer intelligent (if not necessarily correct) perspectives on contemporary world and clues to possible future developments. These are good books, much better than this one. All these authors offer some hints on the future, but they never claim to have the last word, let alone seeing thousands of years ahead.<br />Otherwise, read science fiction instead. Better still, read natural science and standard newspapers.  <br />You are what you eat, they say.  Read junk like this, and your brain will be full of it.	2003-01-08
US	39352452	RPVA0I3THIWXQ	0465036732	413412337	Just Six Numbers: The Deep Forces That Shape The Universe	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Very Interesting	The Astronomer Royal (the Queen's own?) seems to take seriously Linde's chaotic inflation and the idea that our universe is just one among countless others in a \\"multiverse.\\"  I find it significant that even so great an authority as Steve Weinberg does not dismiss it out of hand.  <br />The notion that our universe is finite and has a beginning in time is of course no longer speculation.  But the idea that there are other universes out there with totally different fundamental constants and probably different number (some many more than ours) of dimensions as well is just so hard to fathom.  It's mind-boggling to me how anyone can prove or disprove it; yet here it is and it's not a crackpot idea from some harebrained science-fiction writers.  Sir Martin is a very eminent astronomer - far more credible than Carl Sagan even.<br />But if you look back on the astronomical discoveries in the past two millennia, clearly our place in the universe/multiverse has been found to be less and less unique.  First we were found to be no longer the only planet, then no longer the planet in the center of the solar system, then no longer the only solar system, then no longer the solar system in the center, then no longer the only galaxy, then no longer the galaxy in the center (because the universe has no center).....and now, perhaps, no longer the only universe.  It's all so logical.<br />Sir Martin seems to think, surprisingly given what he now believes, that intelligent life may be rare in the universe.  I for one cannot believe that life, intelligent or not, is rare in our universe, and if there are other universes out there, the odds are considerably higher still.  (The Drake Equation suggests there are billions of planets in our universe alone with intelligent lifeforms, and many millions in our galaxy alone.)  Perhaps he doesn't want to be taken for a mad scientist encouraging \\"raelians\\", ufologists, X-file enthusiasts, \\"abductees\\" and other such idiots.  The damage it can do to his career is all too real.  But all he has to do is to draw a clear distinction between the odds for life, and in particular intelligent life, in other worlds on the one hand, and the odds that any of them have visited us on the other.  Again, I think the odds are very high for the former, but almost certainly nil for the latter.  In any case, the possibility of our finding these lifeforms is not very high, since considering the distances involved our space technology is still in the Stone Age.<br />Interestingly, the religious implications are profound if we are indeed living in a multiverse in which our own universe is merely one among countless others, all very different from one another.  It may be impossible to prove the origin of such a multiverse, if in fact it even has a beginning.  Perhaps the multiverse has always been there, more or less unchanging except at local levels.  Or perhaps the multiverse itself has a beginning, and is again only one among countless others.  Either way, the role of a Creator cannot be proven - perhaps never can be.<br />No math is needed to read this book, but it can still be heavy going for the uninitiated, despite its deceptive shortness.  Have an astronomy dictionary handy, or else be very patient and careful when following his arguments.  Referring back to his earlier book \\"Before the Beginning\\" may be a good idea, as is looking things up in an introductory astronomy textbook.  If you're still stuck, skip & move on to other interesting topics.  Eventually the pieces will fall into place.  If not, it may not be your fault, but you're out of luck because Martin John Rees is one of the clearest & most admired educators in astronomy and astrophysics for laypeople.	2003-01-07
US	39352452	R1YRZWYPPDKF4X	0226106349	398305521	Marlborough: His Life and Times, Book One	Books	5	81	84	N	N	Excellent	The name John Churchill, the First Duke of Marlborough (correctly pronounced, somewhat like \\"MO-bara\\"), may not ring a bell among many of my American friends - except for those interested in history. It is true that he never achieved the worldwide fame enjoyed by his descendant and worshipper, Sir Winston Churchill, who is the author of this book and his unofficially official biographer. Neverthless Marlborough it was who gave the British lion its first roar - while Sir Winston gave it its very last.    It's not difficult to see why Sir Winston admired John. In his own day Marlborough was the greatest Englishman, the best general, and the finest diplomat of Europe. His spectacular victory at Blenheim was one of the world's most significant. He fought many battles; invincible, he won them all (about ten major ones including the sieges). For this he was granted a magnificent home (out of a royal estate) named the Blenheim Palace (for its size to call it anything else would be a misnomer) - in which Sir Winston himself was later born. Like his younger contemporary Frederick the Great (one of my heroes), Marlborough was truly impressive in all aspects of warmaking: strategy, tactics, field command, logistics, diplomacy, personnel, intelligence. Like Frederick he was personally and physically brave (if a little LESS reckless). And like Frederick he had to run a country at the same time. In one way though Marlborough was even greater than Frederick - he never lost a battle.    It is true that without Prince Eugene, Marlborough would not have succeeded the way he did.  (And historically Eugene is ranked even higher than Marlborough among the great captains in history).  But Marlborough was also superb.  To quote G. M. Trevelyan: \\"Marlborough as a military strategist and tactician, as a war statesman and war diplomatist, stands second to no Englishman in history.\\"  Except in naval warfare, Marlborough is the finest professional soldier in British history.    Striking was Marlborough's dependence on several women in his life, to whom he owed his entire career: his own sister, who got him his first job (as a lowly page to the Prince of Wales); the Duchess of Cleveland, who lavished money on him for his exceptional \\"services\\"; Sarah Jennings, his wife, who rose from equally humble background to be politically important; and Queen Anne, who made him Duke and head of the English army. A genius in war, he was also lucky in love. Stunningly handsome, he matched his looks with flawless manners plus sparkling intelligence; not surprisingly his charm was irresistible to women (and, as has been pointed out, men too). Yet he had a happy marriage. (His wife, a tremendous beauty in her own right, lived in constant if unfounded fear of his infidelity. Though the youthful Marlborough probably had an illegit daughter with Cleveland, he was no Casanova in married life.)    That Marlborough was a genius and his life a phenomenal success story, no one can deny. But in the interests of family loyalty as well as personal devotion Sir Winston was willing to turn a blind eye to some of Marlborough's faults: his insatiable financial greed, his manipulativeness, his tightfistedness with money, his suspect honesty, his all-consuming ambitions, his inability to write in literate English. But as I am a fan of Marlborough's myself, I do not blame Sir Winston. I only wish to add that his one-sided account, though the best, does not provide a complete picture.  For his unreliable political loyalty the young Earl of Marlborough was once sent to the Tower for about two months, during which time his life hanged in the balance.  (This experience turned out to be fortunate, as many of his fellow generals were killed at this same time fighting in continental Europe.)    It's puzzling to me how with increasing age, fame and fortune Marlborough's thick skin, which had served him well in his youth, got thinner and thinner, until he was almost destroyed by his sensitivity tocriticisms. Too bad, because his political enemies were so unworthy compared to him.  He gave himself a stroke and that was the end of his career.    No admirer of Sir Winston's, I nonetheless recommend this book very highly. It is extremely well-written. Be sure to get both volumes. And pay particular attention to the military campaigns - these are true masterpieces of historical writing. If you must choose, however, get vol.1 - it has the best actions, including the high points of his career: marriage to Sarah, the meteoric rise, the Garter, Blenheim, the Dukedom. The chapter entitled \\"Avarice and Charm\\" - two aspects of his personality - is particularly interesting.    Not for nothing did Winston Churchill win the Nobel Prize for Literature, and by common consent \\"Marlborough\\" was his best work.	2003-01-04
US	39352452	R3O0B7J8YW9KVR	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Entertaining	Johnson is a very fine writer of history books rather than a real historian (who should be an academic who specialises in a field and goes to the primary sources for data). His mind veers from ancient Egypt to modern America, and his use of primary sources is not evident if you study his endnotes, although he cites many books without specifying pages. This habit shows in his other books also, most notably his \\"History\\" of America.<br />But he does present his facts and figures impressively and in style. So, although I disagree with many (but not all) of his opinions, and would give him a D for his views, I think his English deserves an A.<br />For serious histories of the 20th century I recommend Eric Hobsbawm's Age of Extremes and Michael Howard's edited Oxford History of the 20th Century. The standards of these are much higher. Especially the latter, which is co-authored by the best in their fields. But these books, though serious - or rather because they are serious - make dull reading compared to Johnson's lively, humorous prose laced with deadly sarcastic wit.<br />Think of Johnson's books as entertainment and you'll have a great time. Think of them as storehouses of history knowledge and you're bound to be led astray.<br />If Johnson updates this book (his best-known work), I hope he'd focus on the huge success story that is China. The opinionated Johnson, who is notoriously (or if you prefer, famously) right-wing and revisionist - though in youth he was a radical leftist - is curiously silent in his books and numerous public statements on the most far-reaching capitalist revolution in modern history, happening before our very eyes. Free market forces there are destroying state controls, unleashing explosive human potential, slowly but surely lifting one and a quarter billion people out of poverty, bringing hopes of middle-class wealth to literally a fifth of mankind. If Johnson needs an example to illustrate the virtues and benefits of capitalism, he can do no better than to look at China. But the Eurocentric pundit seems to have an aversion to that part of world, being too far away even for his rambling mind. Instead he dug deep into the mysteries of ancient Egypt (of all places) - presumably without touching the hieroglyphs, which I suppose he couldn't read. And so he produced another \\"history\\" of that dry-as-dust, otherworldly and unchanging civilization, as fascinating for its UN-capitalist, slave-driven economy as it is irrelevant to anything in our Modern Times.) I would also be interested to know if he realistically believes the UK will survive in the future in its present form, or only perhaps as \\"Untied\\" Kingdoms of England and Scotland and Ireland.<br />It's a good idea to read Johnson with fellow Brit historian Eric Hobsbawm together. Hobsbawm is very learned and notoriously (or famously) left-wing......but not as gut-splittingly funny as Johnson. Read them together and then draw your own conclusions.	2003-01-03
US	39352452	R3NA5BW5ZHSJDC	1577150201	220717718	Encyclopedia of Pistols and Revolvers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Useful Indeed	A beginner's guide, clear, concise, with color photos on every page, it reminds me of the excellent Jane's recognition guides to weapons and military equipment.  Naturally, its strength is also its weakness: not enough details.  <br />Nevertheless, I find it very handy and fun to browse through.  Published in 1996, it's not entirely out of date.  Specialists and gun pros would not have much use for an \\"encyclopedia\\" this short, but it would do fine for me.  I particularly like the fact that there are no antiques or collectibles here - this book is about current guns, and that's what I'm interested in.  Also, slightly more pistols than revolvers are covered here - but few if any machine guns or paramilitary firearms.  Hardly any rifles, which is just as well.  I also wonder if there is an emphasis on European products.  (The author is Dutch.)  But no doubt the best-known American guns are well-represented.<br />The frightening thing about this kind of book is that it gets you interested to find out more....	2003-01-03
US	39352452	R22QVZ9332MVE2	041519525X	223771388	Scotland and Nationalism: Scottish Society and Politics 1707 to the Present	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Is Harvie a Scottish Nationalist?	I bet his answer would be &quot;yes.&quot;  But how would he define his nationalism?  I wish he made his hopes on Scotland's future more clear.  I for one can never understand why a brilliant nation with a distinct history of its own should have been absorbed into a political union with England a mere three hundred years ago.  The basis for such a marriage of unequals doesn't seem very strong to me, and I don't see why proud Scots - who have much to be proud of - would want to continue being second-class citizens when so many banana republics with tiny populations (some less than a million) have their own seats at the UN.  Go figure.  The Danes and the Irish too are small nations, and they are treated as full, independent members at international conferences.  It's time the Scots thought about their future, and this book is a good place to start on how they got into this mess in the first place.  I would even go further back than Harvie: since when had the Scots been &quot;British&quot; before Union?  Neither the Romans nor the Anglo-Saxons nor even the Normans could make Scots buckle under, and Harvie would do well to emphasise that too.  The notion that a nation of mixed &quot;races&quot; cannot be a nation doesn't make sense to me: many Russians have non-Russian ancestries, and America is a nation of many races.  Are these not independent countries?  Scotland is a good deal less &quot;mixed&quot; than England.  A million years ago ALL of us came from Africa anyway, so why aren't we one nation instead of 180 or whatever the number is at the UN?  Why not 180, I say?  The more the merrier.  Why can't Scots be Scots?	2002-12-30
US	39352452	R1WPB5BAUX4701	0393312453	580687805	The Rise of China: How Economic Reform is Creating a New Superpower	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Prophetic	There's just one thing seriously wrong with this book: it needs an up-to-date edition. Overholt, a Harvard grad with a Yale PhD, now at RAND in Santa Monica, CA, wrote this book almost a decade ago, and much has happened since. I would gladly give a second edition the 6 stars it almost certainly deserves.<br />After Germany's unification, the Father of Modern Germany Prince Otto von Bismarck (1815-98) told the Reichstag in a speech on Feb. 6, 1888: \\"We Germans fear God, but nothing else in the world.\\" Well, the Chinese today fear nothing AT ALL and absolutely no one, not even the Iron Chancellor's God. More down to earth, they don't fear his Germans - or for that matter the British, the Russians, etc.<br />Overholt explains why this is so, and he does his job well. At times he seems to go overboard in his praises and optimism. Although events since the book's publication have amply confirmed his predictions, there is always room for caution. No one can predict the future. (Suppose a giant meteor from outer space falls into China, then even the best estimates are in vain.) In his memoirs Jack Welch of General Electric put it very well: predictions are often unreliable. He cited the prices of oil and the Japan \\"threat\\" as examples. (But Welch too makes a number of predictions at the end of his book, and the first is a bullish forecast of China!)<br />I think Overholt is right to put his faith in the Chinese people. A country's greatest resources are its people. They are the true source of wealth. Compared to America, China is actually very poor in natural resources - not as poor as Japan, but still very poor. But Japan has shown what it could do when a young, educated, intelligent, and determined people are well governed in a stable and enterprising system. By contrast, countries supposedly rich in natural resources like some in Africa and the Middle East fail to develop because their people lack these qualities. (When they run out of oil, etc., God help them....)<br/>Nor is the Rise of China confined to the homeland. I think that ALL Chinese today are rising together, wherever they live. But the homebase is crucial. Overseas Chinese numbering in the tens of millions help fuel, catalyse and stimulate the growth in China with money and know-how, and benefit in turn from the boom.<br />It is now fashionable to be bullish on China. But it has not always been the case. Even today there are skeptics, like Bill Emmott of the Economist, who claims China is still \\"a modest country at best.\\"  (How the world's second largest economy, with 13% of the world's total and by far the fastest growth rate, can be described this way is beyond me.)  Overholt was one of the first intelligent observers with both excellent academic credentials and plenty of field experience to write a credible book full of accurate facts and figures and penetrating analysis. (The late Jim Rohwer of Fortune magazine was another.)<br />One thousand years ago China was the greatest power in the world, richer than the rest of the world combined. This was about 1000 A.D. Then the crown passed on to the Mongols, who took it by force. But it didn't last. More recently America held a similar if less dominant position in 1945. (Today America's dominance is actually even less than it was at the end of the war, when it held 50% of the industrial capacity of the whole world.) It will take China centuries from now to regain its former position. But long before then, perhaps in our lifetime, China will rival America and Europe in power. The Rise of China has begun, and this book explains how it all began.	2002-12-09
US	39352452	R1V3NM78CKRZDA	0965683613	709555409	Race, Evolution, and Behavior: A Life History Perspective (3rd Edition)	Books	5	42	48	N	N	Scientific &amp; Cool-headed	Psychology is not an exact science; not even evolutionary psychology.  But that doesn't mean an inexact science cannot find truths - or at least facts.  For even inexact but more or less correct facts are better than no facts at all or facts that are totally wrong.  To quote Warren Buffett, it's better to be approximately right than precisely wrong.  In psychology, unlike in astrophysics or molecular genetics, for example, it's never possible to be precisely right, not only because everything comes down to simple observation, but also because very sophisticated equipment or complex but precise calculations are rarely applicable.  But even in this inexact science it certainly is possible to be approximately right.<br />I think this book is scientific in this sense.  But this is in the nature of the subject itself.  Rushton has done his best in finding out the facts using methods he understands well - those of the social sciences - and his best seems to me to be very good.  His standards are rigorous, his methods sound, his interpretations level-headed and even-tempered, and his style is professional.<br />There are many inexact sciences that are nonetheless real sciences.  Take Darwin's evolution.  This may be understood without the knowledge of all but the most elementary arithmetic, but this is still real science.  His arguments are bolstered and confirmed by careful observation and clear thinking.<br />To think that &quot;soft&quot; sciences (i.e., those that require little math) do not command general consensus among the best minds is wrong.  There's a good deal of agreement among the best biologists that evolution is correct; they disagree on the fineprint only.  On the other hand, there's no universal agreement among quantum physicists (who are usually expert mathematicians) on the most fundamental issues of quantum theory.<br />My point is this: it IS possible to arrive at certain objective facts, and from these facts certain objective truths, even in the social sciences.  It is not just a matter of opinion, as in art, but a matter of correct or incorrect observation and thinking.  And I feel Rushton had done a good job for his chosen subject.<br />I have read this book many times and I don't feel the need to summarize it here.  Others have done this well enough.  I would dare anyone to see for himself or herself whether Rushton is right or not.  We can't all observe the heavens and talk intelligently about black holes.  We can't all understand electronics.  But we can observe the social world and make our own judgement.  Why not put Rushton's interpretations to the test of our own eyes and then and only then say he's right or wrong?<br />I think Rushton is in a good position to find more and more supporters in the future.  Things are happening in the world which clearly support his thesis.  Perhaps one or two centuries from now Rushton will be seen as telling what is already obvious to everyone then but not so obvious when he wrote this book.<br />As a student of history I think his interpretations are also a good &quot;fit&quot; with historical facts as I understand them.  So from both the journalist's and the historian's point of view, and not just in its own context, Rushton's social science makes sense also.<br />The key paradox (the Needham paradox, if you like) needs to be dealt with.  I'm not sure if Rushton has done that here.  It is this: why did Mongoloids fall behind?  Well, the answer is they lacked the scientific method.  But why did they lack the scientific method, especially mathematics, having been ahead of Caucasoids for centuries in practical technology?  Well, Rushton needs to address this question.  Personally, I suspect - though I can't say why - that the scientific method can only be born in a mindset obsessed with religion, and East Asians historically have been less obsessed with religion.  I cannot say exactly why I think there was a connection (although today this connection is no longer necessary), but I do feel that science and religion somehow have something to do with each other, and that to be scientifically curious in the way Europeans were you have to have been first of all religiously minded as well.  And East Asians were neither, relative to Europeans.  (Again, I can't prove my suspcions - I leave it to others more brilliant to find the answer.)<br />To accuse Rushton of being a racist even in disguise is absurd.  How does a white racist put his own race down?  And he does not intend to put any race down, only to present facts as he finds them.<br />I think this book is one of the best books I've ever read, in any subject.  And because its subject-matter is so important I attach special value to it.  There really are few similar books out there that are truly sound in ways I've just described, and of those few that can compare (like the one by P. E. Vernon, in the early 80's), this is the most up to date.  It deserves 6 stars out of 5.ssary), but I do feel that science and religion somehow have something to do with each other, and that to be scientifically curious in the way Europeans were you have to have been first of all religiously minded as well.  And East Asians were neither, relative to Europeans.  (Again, I can't prove my suspcions - I leave it to others more brilliant to find the answer.)<br />To accuse Rushton of being a racist even in disguise is absurd.  How does a white racist put his own race down?  And he does not intend to put any race down, only to present facts as he finds them.<br />I think this book is one of the best books I've ever read, in any subject.  And because its subject-matter is so important I attach special value to it.  There really are few similar books out there that are truly sound in ways I've just described, and of those few that can compare (like the one by P. E. Vernon, in the early 80's), this is the most up to date.  It deserves 6 stars out of 5.	2002-12-03
US	39352452	R2YB0G122O8087	067400647X	805302079	Facing Up: Science and Its Cultural Adversaries	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Brilliant sequel to "Dreams of a Final Theory"	Weinberg's intelligence is overwhelming, almost suffocating, and he writes with force and brutal honesty. I particularly like his relentless hostility towards religion and theism. It never occurred to me that religion is THAT bad - I'd always thought that its net contribution to human happiness is simply zero. One of the many harmful effects religion has is certainly its key role in slowing down the progress of science. Perhaps that's somewhat balanced by the inspiration it provides in many forms of artistic creativity, from architecture to music, which may not be what they are without the impetus given by religion. Those of us who believe in genetic causes of behavior may well speculate that we're going to kill and torment one another anyway. And if we can't find a powerful enough excuse like differences in religious beliefs to do so then we would be compelled by evolution to find another. On balance though, I'm coming to like Weinberg's views on religion - very enlightening.  (If Stalin and Mao had done one thing right, I think it was their mass arrests and executions of priests......too bad there are so few imitators nowadays.)  Weinberg really is admirably UNCOMPROMISING. \\"I'm all for a dialogue between science and religion - but not a 'constructive' dialogue,\\" says Weingberg. In other words, any such dialogue should be an opportunity for science to tear religion apart - blow it up to smithereens even. Good for him.  <br />Weinberg seems to be pretty open-minded about the Guth-Linde's chaotic inflation idea. That he finds it plausible, even attractive, is significant, for Weinberg's authority is very great indeed.<br />There is an odd chapter on Arab-Israeli matters which I think is a bit of a stretch to be included in this book - although it casts more light on Weinberg's political views. <br />His hostility towards philosophy is probably right, if one keeps two things in mind: that some of the greatest philosophers, like Einstein and Schroedinger, were interested in philosophy; and that Weinberg is referring primarily to philosophy of science (which he rightly considers a waste of time), rather than philosophy in general, which deals with many subjects besides scientific method.  (Contrast this with his high regard for mathematics.....something Weinberg is good at.)<br />Another of Weinberg's \\"adversaries\\" to science is social constructionism (which not surprisingly is closely related to sociology and philosophy of science).  The notion that scientific truths are merely products of culture which only reflect the prevailing consensus and therefore change with time is not really worth a second thought except that there IS a small grain of truth in it in some rare cases.  But here is a test: how many people today still consider the Earth the center of the solar system around which the Sun and other planets revolve?  What we now know about the natural world is firmly grounded in objective reality and not a matter of consensus except in the most exceptional of cases.  Social constructionism may be fashionable among American intellectuals......you'd be hard pressed to find a social constructionist among intellectuals outside the West, and none whatever among real scientists anywhere.  Weinberg is right again (except that why so great a scientist should waste so much time refuting it is a bit of a mystery to me).	2002-11-29
US	39352452	RZM2P3YO7Z340	0618260250	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Richly Detailed Fantasy	LoTR is one of those thick novels whose paperback version has one great advantage over the hardcover - it's less bulky.  (It's also a lot cheaper but that's another issue.)  Also, it's easier to navigate the book using the index at the back if you use a paperback.  I've found it useful to dip in and out of the text with the help of the index.  Not many novels have an index and this one happens to have one, thus making the paperback very convenient.<br />Don't bother buying the three-separate-books version unless you don't find it necessary to use the index.  If you use the index a lot, three separate books will drive you nuts.<br />Tolkien's own complaint about the book is that it's too short (see foreword to the second edition).  I agree.  No doubt the story would have been far more exciting with twice the length and three times the number of characters.  A longer book perhaps would have made the appearances of dragons possible.  There are no dragons in this story, as it stands.  (Dragons do exist in Tolkien's mythology, but you'll only find them in The Silmarillion and The Hobbit.)<br />The Silmarillion suffers from having too many characters and from being too short a book.  LoTR suffers from having too few characters and also from being too short.  Combining the two into one book would have been a splendid idea.  Perhaps that's why Tolkien was so unhappy about not being able to publish both books together.  The trouble was that he kept making changes to The Silmarillion - he could not settle down to any version.  He kept changing his mind.<br />If alive today, Tolkien would still be revising his all his books.  But then we might have had another full-length sequel (or prequel) to LoTR!  A pity!<br />As far as messages to &quot;take home&quot;, I don't know for sure. Tolkien did not intend his book to be a fable.  But I suppose Tolkien wants to tell us that under certain circumstances even very insignificant people (e.g., the hobbits) can do extraordinary things, and that even your enemy (e.g., Gollum) can change your fate for the better.  In other words, life is full of surprises.and that even your enemy (e.g., Gollum) can change your fate for the better.  In other words, life is full of surprises.	2002-11-27
US	39352452	R12JMSFKT6TREF	0618126988	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not Easy Reading	The Tolkien Trilogy is composed of the following: The Silmarillion, The Hobbit, and The Lord of the Rings.  (The three parts of the LoTR are not a trilogy, as Tolkien himself insisted.)  The Hobbit may be taken as the first chapter of the LoTR - a complete story in itself, related to what follows, and chronologically close to what happens in the big book.  The Silmarillion is not at all close chronologically to the other two stories - the story takes place much earlier.  It may be considered a sort of prequel.  But there are many different stories in this book - a string of related stories, rather than one whole story.  It's full of proper names, especially personal names, only some of them recurring in LoTR, or even within The Silmarillion itself.  Tolkien intended this to be a sort of \\"record\\" of events, names, and places, as though they really existed.  He was trying to create a mythology for England, and thus the chaotic if creative explosion of names.  You can't make a mythology realistic without them.<br />This book may be used as a sort of guide to the other two parts of the trilogy.  Some of the names recur in the later saga and reading this book, or rather referring to it, helps shed light on these.  You can read about Sauron's origins here, for example, who after all is THE eponymous Lord of the Rings himself.  <br />This book is really a co-production of Tolkien and his son Christopher.  What happened was that Tolkien left behind numerous drafts and revisions of the book, made over half a century, most of them preceding the other two books.  The trouble is that these drafts and revisions are self-inconsistent.  Tolkien could not make up his mind, and kept making changes.  I have the feeling that if he had lived another hundred years he would still not have been able to finalize the book.  So, after his death, his son Christopher took what he fancied from the pile of rubble and built a tower out of it, throwing the rest away.<br />It's difficult to know ifTolkien himself would have approved.  He kept changing his own mind anyway.  After the LoTR, he found many faults with The Hobbit itself, and could have re-written the whole thing!  Tolkien may or may not have liked the tower his son built, but he would have recognized the bricks.<br />With the confusing barrage of names, the internal incosistency, the lack of imprimatur from the master, this book is not easy to read except by die-hard Tolkien fanatics.  It's still useful as reference tool, for reasons I just mentioned.  The last chapter, describing the Rings of Power, is particularly relevant to the other parts of the Trilogy.	2002-11-24
US	39352452	R3BKVYF3JK2PC6	9971642050	692757024	My Country and My People	Books	5	90	96	N	N	Still Useful	This book made headlines in America when it came out in the 1930's. For perhaps the first time a Chinese wrote a book in English about China and the Chinese, and the sympathetic reaction of many Americans to China's plight in the struggle against Japan made this book a bestseller. I still think it is a good book. It sets out in language that is still easy to read the Chinese mind, their history, philosophy, characteristics, etc. A good deal of the descriptions are the author's own opinions, inevitably, but it is a testament to the author's brilliant mind and perceptive eyes that much of the book is still valid today. Indeed, now that war, revolution, and communism are things of the past, the Chinese are reverting more and more to their old ways, both good and bad, and their old ways are what this book is about.<br />Pearl Buck, the first American woman to win the Nobel Literature Prize, was the one who persuaded Lin to write this book. Her faith in him is fully justified. Few indeed were native sons of China who were immersed in both Chinese and Western cultures. And Lin was one.<br />Given my interest in both Lin Yutang and JRR Tolkien, I cannot resist a comparison. There is no evidence that Lin and Tolkien knew each other, although both were philologists (linguists interested in the historical origins of words) living in the same period. <br />Their specialties were quite different, however. Tolkien was an expert in Old English, and was comfortable in many northern European languages, both old and modern. (He could even read Finnish!) Lin's expertise was in Chinese literature from the classical period, and what made him unique at the time was his almost native fluency in English (as well as in German, plus a couple of modern European languages).<br />They were born three years apart (Tolkien in 1892, Lin in 1895) and they died exactly three years apart, at the same age (81). <br />Tolkien was a distinguished Oxford professor. Lin held few positions in universities. But Tolkien's education did not go beyond the bachelor's degree. Lin had an MA (from Harvard) and a PhD (from Leipzig, in Germany). <br />Tolkien's scholarly output was very small, but of a high quality. Lin had no scholarly output in the technical, academic sense. His scholarship and intelligence were reflected in the highly-regarded Chinese-English bilingual dictionaries he produced, his prodigious translations of Chinese literature, and in the brilliant essays he penned in Chinese.  As I'm fluent in Chinese (my own native language), I find his essays very enjoyable, very humorous - more so than his English books.<br />Tolkien is immortalized by his novels, which have a worldwide appeal. Lin also wrote novels - of an utterly forgettable quality as far as I'm concerned. He's remembered for his non-fictional writings such as this book. Shortly before he died Lin was nominated for the Nobel Prize for Literature.  (I would give it to him if it were up to me.)<br />Both lived through the Second World War in relative safety, Tolkien in England, Lin in America. Tolkien had proved his bravery in WWI, while Lin's life in pre-1937 China was also perilous due to the Japanese marauders. Both were outsiders in different ways.  Tolkien was a Roman Catholic living in Protestant England who had been born in South Africa, and whose last name didn't sound quite English (it's German).  Lin was a Chinaman in America, at a time when being a Chinaman was almost like being a Martian.<br />Tolkien was a practising papist all his life. Lin was at first a Christian, but he later renounced his religion and became what he called a \\"pagan\\" most of his life - and then apparently converted back to Christianity in old age. Most of his writings are a-religious, if not anti-religious, having been written in his middle years. Tolkien had little to say about his own religion - and his novels are almost \\"pagan\\" - but he seemed to have believed in the \\"truth\\" of mythology.  (Fools, if you ask me.)<br />Tolkien was a good friend of C. S. Lewis, the Irish writer. Lin was a good friend of Pearl Buck, the American Nobel laureate.  Lewis wrote a glowing review of the Lord of the Rings, while Buck wrote a foreword to this book and did much more to help Lin publish his other books. But neither friendship stood the test of time, apparently.<br />Coincidentally, both men were social and political conservatives.  One preferred Old Britain, and the other Old China, to their modern versions, and technology and \\"progress\\" as we know it meant nothing to them.  Interestingly, they both loathed communism.  They were also devoted pipe smokers.  One can well imagine these two gentlemen having a good time sharing their views on these things in a smoky, book-lined study late into the night, speaking their oddly old-fashioned English (perhaps mixing some German into it as well).  But as brilliant philologists, they would only talk past each other without a single word being understood!  Oh, if only they knew each other!<br />Tolkien's fame is assured, mainly by his epic fairy tales. Lin will only be remembered by those few people in the West who take an interest in China's cultural heritage. But even now there are still not many Chinese who can write, in good English, about China and the Chinese people from such a literate perspective (in the best true sense of \\"literate\\"). His insights are sometimes historical, at other times anthropological and sociological, but always and everywhere personal. He eschews abstract, finely spun theories; he sticks to China's facts, history, insights gleaned from classical literature, and his own keen anecdotal eyes. This book is thus eminently practical. It is not entirely timeless, but neither is it out of date. Given the rising importance of China in world affairs, Lin's books are as urgently needed today as they were more than 60 years ago when they made it to the top of New York Times bestsellers list while China struggled to survive.	2002-11-19
US	39352452	R2ZOPTBEA99A0Z	0521550017	73281173	001: The Quantum Theory of Fields (The Quantum Theory of Fields 3 Volume Hardback Set) (Volume 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Modern Classic	Taken together, these three volumes on QFT are comprehensive, clear, and logical in presentation, written with Weinberg's customary brilliant flair. (I felt the same way about his text on general relativity - \\"Gravitation and Cosmology\\" - when it came out.) One would think that the man who won a physics Nobel in the 70's should be rather out of date. Well, Weinberg is one exception to the rule. He's really current and abreast of the latest research on supersymmetry and strings. Quite a feat. In the preface (not available here as a sample page) Weinberg apologizes for the lack of mathematical rigor which may \\"bring tears to the mathematically inclined\\" readers. It's true, there aren't many problems to solve - though those he does provide are carefully chosen and will give you quite a workout. On the other hand, these three books are not for the novice or the faint of heart. Those who are not well grounded in the necessary prerequisites like Feynman diagrams would do well to brush up before they tackle Weinberg.<br />An excellent resource, both as text and as reference, with just the right balance of technical sophistication and philosophical insight. It will set the standards for all similar works for years to come.	2002-11-14
US	39352452	R3EA7IXED0ZYHO	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	5	5	11	N	N	Probably the Finest Biography of Churchill	I don't know how it stacks up against Martin Gilbert's one-volume work, but I'm always a little suspicious of officially sanctioned biographies. Jenkins certainly plays no such role here. <br />This book is superb - one of the best biographies ever written. At least one of the best I've ever read, and I've read many biographies of many different people. Jenkins is fair and his judgment is balanced and impartial. There is also the added advantage here of being somewhat distant in time from the subject, thus more objective - but not so distant as to lose track of original sources of people and papers.<br />First of all, I'm no fan of Churchill's; never have been one. But this book does make one feel the presence of a \\"great man\\". It doesn't gloss over the faults and flaws either. For example, Churchill often could not help being under the spell of Stalin's charisma, even though he kept castigating Roosevelt (a true hero many times greater than Churchill) for doing exactly that. (Even a dunce like Eden saw this.)<br />I like the bit about Churchill's own hagiography of John Churchill, the first Duke of Marlborough. One cannot help wondering how Winston felt about comparing himself to this great ancestor of his. To my knowledge, Jenkins has nothing to say about a comparison by Winston himself. John Churchill played much the same premier role in British politics and European balance of power as Winston did. Both were men of war and of diplomacy. One rose from humble origins to a dukedom; the other came from comfortable surroundings, but was a misfit all the way from school to parliament, and ended up with only a knighthood. (According to Jenkins, Queen Elizabeth was, it turned out - and contrary to my expectations - reluctant to offer him another dukedom! No wonder some people call her mean.) While Marlborough's triumph on the battlefied - he was a great field commander as well, unlike Winston - enhanced his prodigious gift of diplomacy to propel Britain onto Europe's stage as a Great Power (for the first time, the equal of France, the other Great Power), Winston's equal achievement ensured Britain's survival but failed to preserve his beloved Empire. In fact, under Winston Churchill Britain ceased to be the superpower it had been when he was born, relegated now to the second rate. Of course, no one could have prevented this (unless it was Hitler). He kept Britain ALIVE, and that's the best he or anyone could do. I think Winston is more important in world history terms than John, but Winston himself would not have missed the profound irony, given his strong sense of history and historical parallels.<br />Love him or hate him, unless you're completely indifferent, this is a great book about a \\"great man\\". (I was rather indifferent to Churchill before, but now less so.) I salute Jenkins, and recommend this book to all.	2002-11-14
US	39352452	R3OOOUT3PEFQ2	0345340426	669379389	J.R.R. Tolkien Boxed Set (The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Richly Detailed Fantasy	My copy is published by the British firm Harper Collins - bought long ago and not available here. So I cannot comment on the printing quality, etc. of this particular edition. Other reviewers of various American editions have complaints about the spelling errors (more like spelling \\"horrors\\" when it comes to a book written by a linguist where every letter counts), missing pages, etc.<br />Overall, the books are simply fantastic. Tolkien's brilliant scholarly mind is married to a wonderfully creative side, and the product is unbelievable. The beauty of it all is in the details - about places, names, people, monsters, languages, etc., and it's almost hard to conceive that all these are figments of the imagination.  And Tolkien invented a name for each and every one of them!  I can name another work which can compare - the Chinese classic Journey to the West. But this book was written by more than one person. Tolkien did it all by himself.<br />Nevertheless, one wonders to what extent was Tolkien completely original. Is it possible that he was not influenced in any way by the mythologies and folklore of the British Isles, Germany, and Scandinavia? No, it's not. For instance, the Elvish language which he created for his imaginary world was colored by his study of the Finnish language.  But I'm not in a position to elaborate on that, not being an expert of the subjects in question.<br />My biggest disappointment of The Lord of the Rings is the total lack of dragons (although there IS a dragon called Smaug in The Hobbit).  These are alluded or referred to a couple of times, as when Gandalf tells Frodo that not even the fires breathed by dragons can destroy the One Ring.  Otherwise, these creatures, which always play the most exciting roles in Northern European mythologies, are not present in Tolkien's LoTR.  But this is only a minor complaint of mine.<br />Another one would be the lack of illustrations by Tolkien himself.  There actually is another book about Tolkien's works of art.  Having seen them, I'm amazed - he really knew how to draw.  To incorporate some of these into his novels would be fantastic.<br />Tolkien's own complaint was that the book, i.e., the LoTR, is too short.  (JK Rowling's four Harry Potter books are together almost as long, and her writing career has only just begun!)  I'd have to agree with him.  I guess his excuse could be that he had a real full-time job as an Oxford don. If only The Silmarillion - the \\"prequel\\" - could have been expanded to another full-length book!<br />There is an interesting little anecdote about Tolkien's books: it was an Oxford undergraduate student who gave Tolkien, the Merton Professor of English Language and Literature, the necessary passing grade to publish the LoTR.  It had also been the same boy who gave him the go-ahead to publish The Hobbit, and who later infuriated Professor Tolkien by withholding a passing grade to publish The Silmarillion. (Of course, it helped that Rayner Unwin was the son whose judgment his father, Stanley Unwin, the publisher, trusted.)<br />Tolkien will have more lasting fame and more enduring academic influence than many a Nobel prizewinner of literature in any language. These two books alone, apart from his other works, deserve a high place on anybody's reading list.rks of art.  Having seen them, I'm amazed - he really knew how to draw.  To incorporate some of these into his novels would be fantastic.<br />Tolkien's own complaint was that the book, i.e., the LoTR, is too short.  (JK Rowling's four Harry Potter books are together almost as long, and her writing career has only just begun!)  I'd have to agree with him.  I guess his excuse could be that he had a real full-time job as an Oxford don. If only The Silmarillion - the \\"prequel\\" - could have been expanded to another full-length book!<br />There is an interesting little anecdote about Tolkien's books: it was an Oxford undergraduate student who gave Tolkien, the Merton Professor of English Language and Literature, the necessary passing grade to publish the LoTR.  It had also been the same boy who gave him the go-ahead to publish The Hobbit, and who later infuriated Professor Tolkien by withholding a passing grade to publish The Silmarillion. (Of course, it helped that Rayner Unwin was the son whose judgment his father, Stanley Unwin, the publisher, trusted.)<br />Tolkien will have more lasting fame and more enduring academic influence than many a Nobel prizewinner of literature in any language. These two books alone, apart from his other works, deserve a high place on anybody's reading list.	2002-11-10
US	39352452	R1CWN9G8X8FPG	0781808332	1296014	Jews in Old China: Studies by Chinese Scholars	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Truly unique	Books on this subject are hard to find.  Shapiro is a American Jew who knows more about modern China than almost any Westerners, including armchair sinologists like Jonathan Spence.  He writes with wonderful scholarship plus intimate knowledge about the country he loves.<br />My impression is that Jews were treated better in classical China than almost any foreign land in which they found themselves, with the exception of America. But ironically Jews didn't last in Old China.  Rather than being persecuted for their religion or their ways, they were given almost privileged status.  Somehow this encouraged their assimilation into Chinese society, and they had a hard time remaining as Jews after many generations.<br />I need hardly add that many Jews who found their way to China during World War II were a good deal luckier than those who stayed in Europe, although they didn't realize this at first.  They eventually managed to find their way out to Israel - alive.  So, despite post-war \\"hiccups\\" due primarily to Marxist ideology, Jews and Chinese traditionally had a benign if somewhat distant relationship.	2002-11-07
US	39352452	R1DYAVVTISQV6	0521577667	110181016	Prize Essay on the Freedom of the Will (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Best Book Ever Written in All Philosophy	It was while reading about Einstein that my attention was drawn to Schopenhauer, for Einstein often quoted Schopenhauer's saying: &quot;One can do what one wants but not want what one wants.&quot;  Einstein never believed in free will, only freedom to do what we will.  And Schopenhauer was the first person who inspired this thought in him. <br />Schopenhauer proves by rational reasoning why this is so.  People in other cultures (especially East Asia) arrive at the same conclusion by instinct; they believe in Fate. So do many Muslims.<br />I'm in complete agreement with Schopenhauer.  And although this book does not have the same impact on me which it did on Einstein, I count myself lucky to have found it.  But then, all this was &quot;written&quot;....	2002-11-06
US	39352452	RQ1YOQXBX54XJ	0521577667	110181016	Prize Essay on the Freedom of the Will (Cambridge Texts in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Best Book Ever Written in All Philosophy	It was while reading about Einstein that my attention was drawn to Schopenhauer, for Einstein often quoted Schopenhauer's saying: &quot;One can do what one wants but not want what one wants.&quot;  Einstein never believed in free will, only freedom to do what we will.  And Schopenhauer was the first person who inspired this thought in him.<br />Schopenhauer proves by rational reasoning why this is so.  People in other cultures (especially East Asia) arrive at the same conclusion by instinct; they believe in Fate. So do many Muslims.<br />In fact, if you believe in Fate, then not even the freedom to do what we will is really free.  You only do what you must, and whatever you have done, you cannot have prevented yourself from doing it.  I think Schopenhauer makes this point clear also.  Einstein himself said, &quot;Everything is determined.&quot;  Whether it's an insect or a human being, everything from the tiniest particles to the largest galaxies - &quot;we all dance to the tune of a mysterious piper,&quot; said Einstein.  Read this book, and see if Schopenhauer would have said the same thing.  (He would.)<br />I'm in complete agreement with Schopenhauer and Einstein.  And although this book does not have the same impact on me that it did on Einstein, I count myself lucky to have found it.  But then, all this was &quot;written&quot;....<br />There is one other English translation of this book.  Both are good.  I happen to have both - my German is only elementary - and they are now among the most treasured of my possessions.	2002-11-06
US	39352452	R3H0IO7F1WRC9M	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Thoughtful and Provocative	This is one of the most interesting books I've ever come across and I enjoy reading and re-reading it very much.  <br />Hart's thesis is INFLUENCE IN HISTORY.  He makes an explicit distinctin between power and influence, even though the most powerful men in history often have a good deal of longterm influence, for good or ill.  Bear this in mind as you read the book.  <br />As can be expected, with rankings of this kind there's never going to be any agreement among people.  I'll be frank: if I had disagreed with most of Hart's views I wouldn't have picked up the book in the first place.  Having said that, I do have my own opinions.<br />Bohr should not have been omitted in the second edition.  Many eminent physicists would place him ahead of Rutherford.  Why Franklin Roosevelt was not included?  He got America out of the Great Depression and played a crucial role in winning the Second World War, the greatest military conflict in human history.  It seems to me FDR is one of history's most influential persons.  Ben Franklin should be on the list - for the same reason that Edison is on the list.  (Franklin after all co-invented one thing that really matters: the United States of America!)<br />Hitler is ranked way too low.  Hart's argument that Hitler failed in his goals seems to me irrelevant when the question is IMPACT on world history.  Hitler was a despicable person. More importantly, he failed in almost all his objectives; about this no one can disagree.  But Hitler disrupted the world to a greater extent than anyone else I can think of, and for this reason alone I would place him much higher, probably in the top three.  (Similarly, Stalin's place should be higher.  I can't believe that Asoka, whose international impact is next to nil, is #53 when the \\"most powerful dictator in history\\" whose impact is worldwide, is #66!  Also, the distance between Alexander the Great and Mao Zedong - 56 spots - seems to me unreasonable.)<br />Muhammad is one of history's most influential figures, no doubt, but whether he should be #1 is difficult to say.  Hart argues that he united the Arabs, and this is the main reason.  A secondary reason is the fact that he was both a political and a religious leader.  My questions would be the following:  First, are the Arabs really so united?  Second, how important are the Arabs in history?  And finally, is the combination of political and religious leadership in one person a unique phenomenon?  Given the fact that Islam is one of the great three religions in the world, there can be no doubt as to Muhammad's importance.  One would have to be quite prejudiced to place him below the top five.  My question would be, merely thinking of longterm influence, and leaving temporary power or prestige or morality aside, who should be #1?  I don't have a good answer to that, but I'm tempted to consider Newton or Marx.<br />Adam Smith is the greatest economist ever, in my opinion.  Yet he seems to me to belong in the same category as Francis Bacon: intellectual pioneers whose views are both correct and prophetic, but are unimportant because they didn't influence people in their actions, except in retrospect.   (That's very different from Marx, for example.)<br />Given the unique emphasis on scientists in this book - fully justified in my view - I am absolutely horrified that such giants of mathematics as Gauss and Riemann are not on the list.  The impact of the latter on Relativity is very significant, apart from his place in mathematics.  Had Riemann not existed, Einstein would not have been able to put his General Theory in anything but descriptive terms.  (Alternatively Einstein would have had to invent the non-Euclidean geometry himself.  Incidentally, this would be very reminiscent of Newton's invention of calculus!  Had this occurred, then there can be no doubt who should have been placed before Newton, who is #2: Einstein himself!)<br />This is a book no one should miss.  It can be dipped into and read in any order you like.  The facts are often accurate and the reasoning penetrating.  Anyone interested in history and biography should read this book.  I learned much and found it entertaining as well.	2002-11-04
US	39352452	R2SIZP40CF4FWF	0199242216	350278744	Parerga and Paralipomena: Short Philosophical Essays, Volume II	Books	5	35	45	N	N	Schopenhauer's Claim to Fame	Actually, Parerga was not the book which S. considered to be his masterpiece; The World as Will and Representation was. But it made him famous, especially in England.  It's striking too how weak human nature is, even in the case of a man considered to be both a genius and wise.  Already rich by inheritance, both supremely intelligent and extremely clever, highly educated, and ultra-cynical about people, the temperamental philosopher craved FAME all his life.  (He got it, just before he died.)<br />Not everything S. writes about in this book (or for that matter any of his other books) is relevant or interesting or correct - you may want to skip his physical theory of colors, for example. But the reader does get a sense of the range and brilliance of his multilingual mind. Many of his thoughts are timeless and true everywhere in the world.<br />S. caught my attention not because I'm interested in philosophy generally - I most certainly am not - but rather because he was one of Einstein's heroes, and Einstein is one of mine. Einstein loved to quote him, and apparently had his picture hanging in his office. <br />Interestingly, Hitler also counted S. as his hero. The only book he took to the front as a soldier in the First World War was Schopenhauer's masterpiece, and later as Fuehrer he quoted S. in long, rambling paragraphs in his own table talk. One wouldn't normally expect much in common between the greatest mind who ever lived and this anti-intellectual warmonger. Hitler was an antisemite, so perhaps that's one reason why he was attracted to S. But S. was most liberal and generous in his misanthropic hatreds - one doesn't find him discriminate for or against any particular group. Perhaps Hitler didn't know about the far more damning things S. had to say about Germans? <br />S. influenced many philosophers, such as Nietzsche and Wittgenstein, but I'm not familiar enough with philosophy to elaborate on this point. He also inspired many other creative minds who were not actually philosophers: Richard Wagner (a fanatical devotee to S. and to whom Hitler was also a fanatical devotee), Leo Tolstoy, Thomas Mann, Sir Winston Churchill (mentioned S. in his autobiography My Early Life), and the quantum physicist Erwin Schroedinger, among numerous others. (Notice that the last three were Nobel prizewinners?)  Even the sharp-tongued and critical Wolfgang Pauli (another Nobel physicist) took him seriously.  If you want to know why S. was so influential, then this is a good place to start. Parerga is easier to read than his other books, with the exception of his two essays on morality. Try to get Vol. I as well, but if you must choose, get Vol. II - it's longer and has a good index, and a good index is always useful in any book.  <br />Start with Parerga; then after you're familiar with his philosophy, move on to his main work.  But don't forget his Essay on the Freedom on the Will - which stands alone as a real masterpiece in all philosophy, even more outstanding than his other works.	2002-10-29
US	39352452	R2GWWLVT4TRSMD	0471228990	774363064	The Theory and Practice of Investment Management (Frank J. Fabozzi Series)	Books	3	12	23	N	N	Pricey Tome with a Pompous Title	This is basically a textbook at textbook's price, useful for reference only. Too theoretical and technical to be practical. One wonders how one can apply anything written in it, other than feeling impressed by the book's size and the editors' learning. Read it for pleasure if you dare! Many chapters written by Fabozzi, but very few actually by Markowitz.  I feel good having a book edited by a Nobel prizewinner sitting on my shelf among my other investment books (and I have many) but that's about all I can say about it.	2002-10-21
US	39352452	R12RDE5TFWZ1EQ	0415260396	497861368	Who's Who in Military History: From 1453 to the Present Day	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Indispensable but not unimprovable	The selections are on the whole good. And there are too few books of this kind within easy reach. The authors wisely limit themselves to the age of firearms, or else the book would have been ten times as long. On the other hand, some of the greatest captains in warfare are conveniently omitted by this criterion: Alexander, Qin Shihuang, Caesar, Muhammed, William the Conqueror, Genghis, etc. There is some European, especially British, bias in the selections. But the same may be said of any book of this kind written by any other nationals. The biggest oddity is the lack of entries of any of the top leaders of World War II with the exception of Hitler. Stalin's performance as \\"generalissimo\\" left much to be desired - particularly if you're Russian - but he was nonetheless on the side of the winners, and no one can argue he was not a bloody important C-in C.<br />Frederick the Great gets the longest entry of the whole book. Well-earned. There can be no doubt as to Frederick's greatness as military leader - he was truly great in all aspects of warmaking: strategy, tactics, field command, logistics, personnel, diplomacy. And he had to govern a kingdom at the same time - while finding time for books, conversation, prolific writing, and composing music simultaneously! Yet Frederick owed his reputation and even his personal survival to a great stroke of luck (the death of Tsarina Elizabeth). Perhaps even he himself would have preferred a victory under different circumstances.<br />Marlborough is billed as the greatest soldier in British history. Wellington is a close second, while Churchill (not mentioned in the book), who was Marlborough's descendant and who idolized Marlborough, was at least as important, in my opionion -though Churchill was as repulsive a man as Marlborough was charming. It's astonishing how Marlborough owed his career to women from start to finish. He got his first important job through his sister's connections to the court, made his early fortune as gigolo of Charles II's mistress, and received his commission at the highest rank from Queen Anne - by virtue of his wife's friendship with her. Probably no upstart from such an obscure background could have risen to such heights except by his good looks and luck with women (admittedly on top of real abilities). (But the same cannot be said of another great warrior of the early modern age: Toyotomi Hideyoshi, who came from an even lower class.) In any case, I agree with Keegan's judgement on Marlborough, as well as with the fact that his entry is much longer than Wellington's. <br />Interestingly, Keegan's comment on Napoleon was slighting -\\"Napoleon was not unimportant in military history\\" was what he is saying in effect. Well, none other than Wellington himself had this to say about Bonaparte as to who was the greatest soldier in his age: \\"In this age, in past ages, in any age, Napoleon.\\" The fact that Napoleon made great strategic errors definitely tarnished his reputation, no doubt, and Wellington was probably puffing up himself at the same time with this remark. But Keegan's views on Napoleon seem inadequate at best.<br />Keegan trashes Lawrence of Arabia, but Liddell Hart and Michael Howard both rate him highly. <br />I'm familiar enough with Keegan's books to know that his opinions can be very odd in places.  Sometimes I wonder if I can count on him to think clearly.  But this book is still a useful reference tool  which I use often.	2002-10-13
US	39352452	R18XT8RTFTBFS2	155970537X	113934830	The Nobel Prize: A History of Genius , Controversy and Prestige	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very Good Introduction	Now that the Nobel Prizes for 2002 have just been announced, there is no better time to take a real look at the history and background of the Prizes themselves.  There are very few books written about this important subject for the general reader, so even a mediocre one is appreciated. And this book is not mediocre. Of course there are the official records from the Nobel committees, but they are dry and sometimes too technical. This book gives the juicy behind-the-scene anecedotes, in addition to more thoughtful reflections over some of the important issues facing the Nobel selections. <br />The question of selecting whom to award the Prizes is the most difficult and the most important task the Nobel committees face. The choices are often controversial, even over the scientific ones, as the book well illustrates. The Peace Prize is certainly not the only controversial one, although most people tend to think that all Physics, Chemistry, and Medicine Prizes are only given to the most deserving. Far from it!<br />A few examples will suffice. The Medicine/Physiology Prize for the DNA resolution is awarded no long after Rosalind Franklin died. Why did the Nobel people wait when the evidence was already overwhelming? And the question of who deserved this is really thorny, given the fact that many people had worked towards the goal of resolving the DNA structure. Watson and Crick would have won the Prize in any case, but Watson certainly did not deserve as much credit as he thinks. (In fact he deserves much less. At least Crick has the wits and modesty to recognize his own contribution was small, if important.) Whom to give the third share is so difficult that the Nobel people must have breathed a sigh of relief when Franklin finally croaked. Shame on them! <br />John Wheeler, one of the finest physicists of the twentieth century, deserves a Nobel but got none. The same goes for J. Robert Oppenheimer (whom Wheeler dislikes), though in this case his early death may have prevented this. The award should have been made for his astrophysical work on neutron stars, rather than for his nuclear physics. Einstein should have won the Nobel three times over instead of just once: once each for the Special Theory of Relativity, the General Theory of Relativity, and the photoelectric effect (for which he got the Prize). In the case of the Special Theory, he may have had to share it, though with whom is difficult (again) to say. (Perhaps Grossman?) The Nobel people were too incompetent to understand Relativity, as it happened. (Some on the committee thought he deserved it; others weren't so sure. Few - some not even physicists - really understood the math.)<br />There are many other examples along these lines. The Einstein mistake was probably the biggest in the history of the Nobel Prizes. Nor is it clear that a Nobel is the strongest proof for a scientist's place in history. Bardeen shared the Physics Prize twice, but who has heard of him? Simply put, Bardeen was a great physicist, but not one of the greatest of the twentieth century. Pauling won the Chemistry Prize once only, but he was the greatest chemist of modern times, by far. <br />There is really no need to fuss over the Peace, Literature, and Economics Prizes as Feldman does, for the prestige (if this word may be used at all) attached to these is considerably lower in any case. The Peace Prize will always be controversial no matter how deserving or undeserving the recipients may be. But that doesn't mean we should do without one.<br />This book doesn't tell the whole story. For instance, why are there no Nobels for Philosophy, Astronomy, and Mathematics? Read the book, but don't expect a detailed explanation there. This book is not about Alfred Nobel himself, but a little more biographical details than what Feldman provides would be helpful.  The question of why the Japanese, with the second most powerful technological economy in world, should be so under-represented in the awards (evenin the sciences) is not at all touched upon.  There has been much discussion recently (like in a recent article in the New York Times) about this question.  As if in reply, two of the science Prizes are shared by Japanese scientists this very year.  (On a per capita basis, the Germans do much better, but still lag behind the British or the Swiss.)  A breakdown of the prizes on national basis is available from the official Nobel Prize website, but Feldman may want to consider doing a per capita analysis in a new edition (if available).  He does list the recipients of Jewish ancestry (or partial Jewish ancestry) in the last Appendix (Appendix E).  This is a real eye-opener.  Anyone who doubts that Jews are intellectually gifted should take a good look at this list.  Considering the small number of Jews in the world, their achievement is astonishing, especially in medicine. Not even the Scots, who do relatively well, can remotely compare.  Like most stereotypes, there must be some truth to the one about Jews (particularly the Ashkenazi kind) being smart.  However, few of the Jewish winners represent Israel or did their groundbreaking research there.<br />In any case, no single book can tell the whole story about the Nobel Prizes. There are others (one recent one by a Hungarian chemist) but not nearly enough for us. Although Feldman is no scientist himself, he did us a fine service, and I give him a small honorary Nobel, for investigative history. May there be more like him!	2002-10-03
US	39352452	R2UCMR4LK2L0PT	7119016636	719242635	Journey to the West (Chinese Classics, Classic Novel in 4 Volumes)	Books	5	4	10	N	N	Best Loved Fantasy Novel for a Fifth of Mankind	Imagine \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" doubling its length, complexity of plots, the number of characters, monsters, spirits, and other beings of all kinds - then you get the idea of just what a monumental book this is.  It's like an encyclopedia written in the form of a novel!  It's also the most famous fanatasy fiction in the Chinese-speaking world.  Now that's a big deal.<br />The Buddhist monk's mission is to walk all the way from the Chinese capital to India, a distance of at least 2000 miles.  By contrast, the distance between Hobbiton and Mordor is only about 1000 miles.  While the monk's goal is to take back Buddhist books from \\"the West,\\" i.e., India, Frodo's task is to destroy the One Ring in Mount Doom of Mordor, i.e., in the East. The Monk is to bring back something of great importance, the Hobbit to destroy it.  The Monk is a man of great wisdom, with an absolutely pure heart, but powerless and helpless in the face of monsters.  He commands the services of his pupil the Monkey King, who has limitless supernatural powers.  Hobbit's strength lies also in his purity of heart, which however fails only at the very end.  Otherwise he is just as powerless as the Monk.  Gandalf is the man of great wisdom and a tremendous wizard who assists Frodo.  \\"The Journey to the West\\" is permeated throughout with Buddhist overtones and undertones - like blood in the human body, they are everywhere.  Tolkien's book is pagan, of course, but the distinction between good and evil is no less sharp.  All characters return home heroes.<br />Those who've read both books (or at least seen the films adapted from them) will appreciate the complexity of the Chinese imaginative mind.  Nothing Tolkien wrote can compare.  Curiously, little is known about this author, other than the great fame of his book.	2002-09-24
US	39352452	R1L78SZJPY2ENU	0195903234	302838456	The Deer and The Cauldron: The First Book (Bk. 1)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	5 Stars for the Book (3 Stars for the translation)	Literary (unlike scientific) translations always lose a good deal in the task.  It's like travellng to an alien civilization in outerspace, then coming back to describe what you saw without the help of any photographs.  Imagine translating Tolkien into a language as different from English as Chinese, and you see the problem here. (How does one even attempt to translate Tolkien's Elvish verses?)  One may as well read Shakespeare in Egyptian Hieroglyphs!  Too many concepts have no exact counterparts, and a detailed translation would require extensive endnotes and glossaries and appendices.  Still, better to have a translation than none at all for those unfortunate foreigners who don't know Chinese. For Louis Cha is the best-known and best-loved living writer of fantasy novels in the Chinese-speaking world. Those who know little Chinese history and culture will get much less out of reading Cha's novels, but that would be asking too much from foreigners interested in reading only the translations.<BR> <BR><br />It's indeed interesting to compare Tolkien with Cha. Tolkien was an Oxford don - a highly respected one in fact, though his scholarship is totally eclipsed by his literary fame. Cha never held a real academic post, but his literary achievement is recognized by universities all over the world - including Oxford and Cambridge. Tolkien's one single book (\\"The Lord of the Rings\\" is not actually a trilogy, but one long book divided into three parts) has been turned into global blockbusters in the box office. Cha's many more books (he wrote more than a dozen full-length historical romances) have been turned into television series which have been shown all over Asia. Tolkien's fans tend to be hardcore fanatics - so too are Cha's. Tolkien's honors included a CBE from the Queen. Cha's honors included an OBE from the same lady and a similar one from the French President. Tolkien was relatively poor for a highly successful writer (but rich for a professor). He didn't even make real money from the movie rights. Cha is a very wealthy man, his considerable income being the huge newspaper company he founds and owns (the Ming Pao is the most respected Chinese-language newspaper in the world.)<br />It would be tempting to argue who is more famous, Tolkien or Cha. Tolkien's fame in the English-speaking world is beyond doubt. The movies are going to spread this fame into the rest of the world. Cha's fame is also past dispute, but it's confined in the Chinese-speaking world only. Although there are more Chinese native speakers than English native speakers in the world, there are far more English learners everywhere, and English is certainly the more important language. However, non-native speakers of English are not likely to delve into difficult books such as Tolkien's, except perhaps in translation.<br />Which is the reason why translations, despite their limitations, are always and everywhere so necessary!<br />Ironically, although Tolkien and Cha are between them well known to BILLIONS of people, there are likely not many people who are fans of both, English and Chinese being so different from each other.	2002-09-22
US	39352452	R1UIB0PWXZTEQD	1851681167	991379468	God, Chance and Necessity	Books	1	3	53	N	N	Not impressive	Ward is Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford University.  But I'm not impressed by his reasoning, because no amount of argument can defeat science.  As Galileo said, the Earth moves around the Sun no matter what we think.  Religion - not just Christianity - is incompatible with science and therefore religion must be superseded.  I see no room for both.  Nor do I see any need for room for both.	2002-09-15
US	39352452	R14J49VK13HES1	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Adventure of the Mind	Boorstin is neither a scientist by training nor a sailor by profession, but he has a superb intellect and a writing style that is breezy and sometimes witty.  This book is certainly the best in his trilogy.  I only have a few criticisms about his idiosyncratic selections.  <br />There's not enough coverage of Newton.  When you're writing a three-part intellectual history of the West running to 2000 pages, you ought to devote at least a full chapter to the greatest discoverer of all time.  <br />Like most historians, Boorstin underestimated the importance of Franklin in the history of science.  (His contributions to electricity were far more than just a kite experiment.  I.B. Cohen of Harvard pointed this out long ago.)  So Boorstin put Franklin among the Creators - just because he wrote a famous autobiography.   A common enough error, forgivable since Boorstin is no historian of science.  <br />There's little mention of Hume and none of Schopenhauer among the Seekers, though these were two of the greatest minds in philosophy.  Mozart's life gets all of three pages in the Creators, although he was probably the greatest artistic genius of world history.  Einstein was not included in the Discoverers, but rather classified as one of the Seekers - i.e., among the philosophers - even though Newton and Darwin were Discoverers to Boorstin.  Bohr is completely out of the whole story.<br />The Seekers is disproportionally short, making the trilogy rather asymmetrical.  Not that symmetry is important per se.  It's more important to say what needs to be said than worry about the length.  But there are so many non-scientific, non-artistic thinkers to talk about that it seems odd not to write more or expand upon the ones he does talk about at greater length.  One gets the impression that Boorstin thinks little of the people he calls the Seekers. Or perhaps he was tired by the time he got to writing this one.<br />Overall, a great book in an excellent trilogy.	2002-09-14
US	39352452	R18BYVXHUGFT5I	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Adventure of the Mind	Boorstin is neither a scientist by training nor a sailor by profession, but he has a superb intellect and a writing style that is breezy and sometimes witty.  This book is certainly the best in his trilogy.  I only have a few criticisms about his idiosyncratic selections.  <br />There's not enough coverage of Newton.  When you're writing a three-part intellectual history of the West running to 2000 pages, you ought to devote at least a full chapter to the greatest discoverer of all time.  <br />Like most historians, Boorstin underestimated the importance of Franklin in the history of science.  (His contributions to electricity were far more than just a kite experiment.  I.B. Cohen of Harvard pointed this out long ago.)  So Boorstin put Franklin among the Creators - just because he wrote a famous autobiography.   A common enough error, forgivable since Boorstin is no historian of science.  <br />There's little mention of Hume and none of Schopenhauer among the Seekers, though these were two of the greatest minds in philosophy.  Mozart's life gets all of three pages in the Creators, although he was probably the greatest artistic genius of world history.  Einstein was not included in the Discoverers, but rather classified as one of the Seekers - i.e., among the philosophers - even though Newton and Darwin were Discoverers to Boorstin.  Bohr is completely out of the whole story.<br />The Seekers is disproportionally short, making the trilogy rather asymmetrical.  Not that symmetry is important per se.  It's more important to say what needs to be said than worry about the length.  But there are so many non-scientific, non-artistic thinkers to talk about that it seems odd not to write more or expand upon the ones he does talk about at greater length.  One gets the impression that Boorstin thinks little of the people he calls the Seekers. Or perhaps he was tired by the time he got to writing this one.<br />Overall, a great book in an excellent trilogy.	2002-09-14
US	39352452	R1MF3O2Z0IZZYL	0394726251	301838580	The Discoverers: A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Adventure of the Mind	Boorstin is neither a scientist by training nor a sailor by profession, but he has a superb intellect and a writing style that is breezy and sometimes witty.  This book is certainly the best in his trilogy.  I only have a few criticisms about his idiosyncratic selections.  <br />There's not enough coverage of Newton.  When you're writing a three-part intellectual history of the West running to 2000 pages, you ought to devote at least a full chapter to the greatest discoverer of all time.  <br />Like most historians, Boorstin underestimated the importance of Franklin to science.  His contributions to electricity were far more than just a kite experiment.  I.B. Cohen of Harvard pointed this out long ago.  So Boorstin puts Franklin among the Creators - just because he wrote a famous autobiography.   A common enough error, forgiveable since Boorstin is no historian of science.  <br />There's little mention of Hume and none of Schopenhauer among the Seekers, though these were two of the greatest minds in philosophy.  Mozart's life gets all of three pages in the Creators, although he was probably the greatest artistic genius of world history.  Einstein was not included in the Discoverers, but rather classified as one of the Seekers - i.e., among the philosophers - even though Newton and Darwin were Discoverers to Boorstin.  Bohr is completely out of the whole story.<br />Mathematics is the queen of the sciences.  It is mathematics which distinguishes Western science from the Eastern.  But Boorstin's treatment of mathematics and mathematicians is awfully thin.  Neither Gauss nor Riemann was part of his adventure.  A major disappointment.<br />The Seekers is disproportionally short, making the trilogy rather asymmetrical.  Not that symmetry is important per se.  It's more important to say what needs to be said than worry about the length.  But there are so many non-scientific, non-artistic thinkers to talk about that it seems odd not to write more or expand upon the ones hedoes talk about at greater length.  One gets the impression that Boorstin thinks little of the people he calls the Seekers. If so, I agree with him.  Philosophers so far have only made a marginal direct contribution to finding objective truth, even though they have exerted an indirect influence on the natural sciences.  Modern philosophy, at least of the Western kind, is merely a successor to medieval scholasticism and mysticism.  One does not have to read Wittgenstein to feel that had philosophers not existed the natural sciences might not have been any worse off (as Steven Weinberg keeps emhasizing).<br />Overall, a great book in an excellent trilogy.  This book gives me hours of sheer pleasure - a great discovery on my part.	2002-09-14
US	39352452	R1OAE7FJALRC6T	0060199733	242010890	Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Extraordinary: A Masterpiece Worthy of a Great Stateswoman	The Baroness covers a lot of ground - nothing less than the entire world. Chapter by chapter, she surveys global issues and particular areas with strategic insight enhanced by more than a decade of spectacular performance at the helm of one of the great powers of the last century, sprinkling at critical points a discerning knowledge of world history which has not been evident in her previous books. She's even up to date, covering the Sept. 11 events among many others. One does not have to agree with everything she says to appreciate the force and logic of her arguments, which amaze me. A more intellectual book few statesmen today can write (Kissinger being one rare exception); yet Thatcher is not commonly considered an intellectual. Surely one can expect nothing like this from the mind of Ronald Reagan (even before his Alzheimer's), and it would be interesting to see if the brilliant Clinton can match her. <br />For me personally I'm especially impressed by her acknowledgement of China's past superiority versus Europe. She has the wits to say that for more than three thousand years China was actually ahead of Europe in every respect: scientifically, technologically, culturally, artistically, politically. One can see a Kissinger or a Paul Kennedy with their keen sense of history making this point, but not Thatcher; yet here it is. For good measure, she also uses a personal experience - involving a porcelain bowl - to predict China's destiny. Her analogy is subtle but superb. I don't want to give it away here. She does, however, say that \\"China is undoubtedly on course to become an economic superpower.\\" <br />Thatcher's assessment of the Chinese is overwhelmingly positive: \\"Wherever they go, even when they are living under the ramshackle quasi-socialism of mainland China, they show the same qualities of enterprise and self-reliance.  And given the right economic framework, nothing is beyond them.\\" (p. 115)<br />Curiously she gets at least one important fact wrong regarding China. She thinks China's share of world trade is small - smaller than that of the Benelux countries!  In fact, China is now the world's 4th largest trader.  \\"In the ranking of merchandise exporters and importers, China became number four ahead of Canada (counting the EU as one trader).\\" (WTO Trade Statistics 2002) This does not even include Hong Kong and Taiwan, which are counted separately in all WTO figures. Needless to mention, China's trade growth is by far the world's fastest.  <br />The notion that India can balance off China, even as a future possibility, is one of Thatcher's fantasies.  First of all, India is far behind China economically and militarily.  This gap cannot be bridged any time soon, certainly not by a rising population in India.  Second, China is developing close ties to Russia at a faster rate than India is or can hope to be.  Until India can line Russia up firmly behind it against China - as was the case once upon a time - China can always play the Russia Card, not only against India, but also against the United States.  Third, one cannot count on the relations between China and India to be hostile forever.  Fourth, rapidly developing trade between China and the US means that the US has less and less room for maneuvers against China on behalf of another ally or potential ally (as India appears to be).  Finally, in any event, China has a tremendous leverage against India in Pakistan, China's closest client-ally in South Asia.<br />This tour de force is a must for students and practitioners of international affairs. Overall, she is a very realistic observer. Nevertheless, I honestly am not and have never been an uncritical fan of hers. This Garter Knight keeps fighting an uphill battle against Britain's integration into Europe - there's no hope of victory here. She also fails to address the sensitive issue of Scottish nationalism. Presumably the eventual but certain destruction of the 300-year-old United Kingdom is too painful even for the Iron Lady to talk about. <br />But even when I find myself disagreeing with her, I can feel that she says what she means and means what she says. And no one can accuse her of being inconsistent over all these years. This book was presumably written before her strokes, when her mind was still clear. It would be a pity indeed if she can no longer write.	2002-04-18
