US	39409668	R3SUD1HACG6080	1878488724	781747080	Tall Tales of the Mississippi River -1995	Books	3	1	1	N	N	and then the strangest thing happened	A collection of twelve short story chapters, truly tall tales derived from the Upper Midwest region and Mississippi River area. Stitched together by a common setting, a park in Muscatine, Iowa. Each story follows one of two similar outlines in presentation. The rather predictable bantering conversations between four aged companions seated on a bench beneath a sycamore, or a group of young lads listening to ol' Hiram the park attendant, by the lagoon. Spoken folklore surround cultured pearls, vicious snapping turtles, chicken thieves, a large dancing crayfish, a mammoth snow goose, a winking mermaid, ghosts, and two creatures (man & reptile) that survive frozen hibernation. <br />  <br />Old fashioned style storytelling done in print. Completed with strategic black & white illustrations on every page. It's an okay book, basic simple fiction comprehensibly written, ideal for leisure tidbit reading while recreating on the water.	2004-12-25
US	39409668	R24RPNLLE5Q33A	0312439717	477132751	James Herriot's Yorkshire: A Guided Tour With the Beloved Veterinarian Through the Land of All Creatures Great And Small And Every Living Thing, Gloriously Photographed and Memorably Described	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The charming life of James Herriot	The pages of this book are filled with the good things of life. Memories. Not only those of the author, but also for the reader as well. To someone familiar with the titles by James Herriot, reading through this book is almost like reminiscing with an old friend. Spending time collectively on an open hillside overlooking a Yorkshire dale. Surrounded by the scent of heather, farmland, natural beauty and wild vistas. Wonderful escape. I've always been charmed by Herriot's stories and his writing. <br /> <br />As Herriot describes the places where he lived, practiced, and holidayed in Yorkshire he is equally as charming and sentimental. I couldn't even begin to highlight what is featured in this book. A range of geography, ancient ruins, villages and towns are mentioned. With just enough history and folklore. Also included is a basic map.  <br /> <br />Affectionately and exquisitely written. Impressively and lavishly photographed. You couldn't have a more personal, romantic account or tour outside of the real thing. Special and captivating. A treat to James Herriot fans. Recommendable book for outdoor reading too.	2004-11-10
US	39409668	R1VH5ZJHR6I7VP	1879483890	304563663	Eating Well in Wisconsin	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Eatin'	Here is one fantastic guidebook on restaurants that makes the whole state of Wisconsin seem like a delicious destination. The book has a perfect layout, very easy to use and understand. Each restaurant featured is given with thorough information which includes the street address, telephone and/or fax numbers, web addresses, general cost, hours when open and what signature dishes they're known for. Also noted is if the restaurant has a bar/cocktail lounge, vegetarian entrees, a children's menu, wheelchair accessibility, smoking/non-smoking, if reservations are recommended or if the restaurant is available for private parties and for what maximum amount, plus what credit cards are accepted or if out-of-town checks are okay with ID. Not to mention the inviting personal description of menu choices and ambiance presented by the author. He even brings some humorous insight to explaining the &quot;fish fry&quot; phenomenon of the Midwest, particularly Wisconsin as well as the variance in super club definition to the locality.<BR> <BR>After the great introduction comes the list of restaurant recommendations, which are sectioned off by regions and arranged in chapters titled: Madison, Just Beyond Madison, Middleton, Baraboo Area, Southeastern Gateway, Milwaukee, Just Beyond Milwaukee, Lake Geneva &amp; Vicinity, Beloit &amp; Janesville, East Shore, Green Bay, Fox River Valley, Door County, WI Dells &amp; Lake Delton, Central WI, North Woods, Lake Superior Shore, Southwest, La Crosse &amp; Vicinity, and finally Eau Claire &amp; Vicinity. What follows next is an index of restaurants in each region grouped for easy reference according to special accommodations, with such preferences as vegetarian, outdoor dining, birthday parties, senior discounts, early bird specials and light menus. On the final few pages is a very handy town/city index plus a separate restaurant index.<br />With a pinch of humor and a dash of genuine honesty from the author you can be sure to locate a greatplace to dine in Wisconsin, either casual or not quite so. You'll find that the restaurants featured here are surely above the ordinary in everything you could ever ask for in a good place to eat. Every imaginable type of cuisine is represented, from French to Italian to Swedish to German, from Mediterranean to Mexican, American Steakhouse to Midwest Regional and Contemporary, from Chinese to Thai to Seafood and Sushi, from Supper Club and pub to family dining. There is a scrumptious variety of restaurant choices served up to truly satisfy the hungry traveler. A recommendable, one of a kind guidebook.	2004-06-20
US	39409668	RCA70NSTWEC2Z	1885061420	173010104	Trees of Wisconsin Field Guide (Tree Identification Guides)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	a simple pocket guide	Great, basic guide book for gaining a more acute sense of native trees in Wisconsin including many common, non-native species as well. 101 different trees are highlighted, 16 conifers and 85 deciduous. The book has a nice layout, ideal for quick reference use, with a good full page color photo for each tree. The trees are grouped according to their leaf type. Handy icons for these groups appear in the upper right-hand page corner and down by the page number. There is also, an icon made for visually understanding the mature tree size, comparing it to a 2-story house. <br />Short profile text describes the characteristics of a tree's overall shape, height and appearance, needle/leaf, bark, flower, fruit, fall foliage, origin, average lifespan, habitat and region. Common names appear first at the top of the page with botanical names and family classification right underneath in smaller print. At the bottom of the page is a paragraph of Stan's Notes which feature the &quot;gee-wiz&quot; facts of interest, even if the plant is known to be edible or poisonous. This basic information layout is kept consistent throughout the book for each tree. What is not consistent are comments of when in bloom or with berry. A few, though not all trees listed have small insert photos to show fruit and flowers. All trees do have a small insert photo for identifying the bark. <br />The book has a good introduction and a nice glossary that even gives a tree example for some terminology. Plus there is a checklist at the back. A nice sized, simple, easy reading handbook, kept comprehensible for the average, everyday nature nut. Recommendable as a first-time field guide.	2004-05-30
US	39409668	R2T5OAJI56UCYN	0762416521	320786596	The World Of Jack Aubrey	Books	4	33	34	N	N	The real history in the story	Specific in subject, this book illustrates the past naval environment in which the novels of Partick O'Brian are set. Focusing on just the elements that relate to the Aubrey/Maturin story. In the first couple chapters it describes a variety of historical ships used basically in the wars between 1793 and 1815. How they where classified in rates, highlighting a few key happenings in the life of each vessel. Then necessities of sailing are elaborated upon as well as naval weapons and uniforms in the later part of the book. The short and final few chapters deal with Other Naval Powers in opposition to the Royal Navy as well as Privateers and Pirates. Significant ships, countries, events and the Letter of Marque are mainly what occupy the text here. <br />The book exhibits many wonderful color pictures. For quick reference there are charts, a diagram labeling the sails of a ship, and ship profile info squared off separately from the text throughout the pages. Probably what is greatly valuable is the Glossary of Nautical Terms. The information provided is the basics, but it still remains quite educational for the novice. The entire book makes a nice direct guide to the old maritime world surrounding our Captain Jack Aubrey character.	2004-02-10
US	39409668	R2JVR4H8DHFRTZ	1551562847	266462787	Paper Blanks Old Leather Wraps: Foiled Leather	Books	5	102	102	N	N	Exquisite!	So what if it isn't real leather! That doesn't diminish its value at all! This is a mysterious, exotic and elegant looking journal book; one that will preserve your eloquent or personal writings like a royal treasure. The lovely gold embellishments have a slightly embossed texture. The book is nicely sized at 9 inches high by 7 inches wide (approx. 23 by 18 centimeters) with 144 vanilla cream pages. The paper is of thick acid-free archive quality, and printed with narrow margins and twenty-six delicate lines per page. It exhibits a bright red ribbon bookmark and a large expandable pocket at the back for stashing loose paper or extra bits & pieces. Also to be found inside at the center of the front cover page is a generously designated space for the owner to fill out who \\"This Book Belongs To\\" if they so wish. Plus the wrap around flap closes with a steadfast clap due to the subsurface magnetism embedded in the overlapping covers. You can even stow a pen or pencil neatly under the flap, between the paper edges and the cover at the right-hand side without much worry of it falling out. Beautiful as a planner or journal. Made in China.	2004-02-06
US	39409668	R2LRCFE1WLKYR5	1551563207	868650036	Paperblanks Moon Traveller: Lined (Handstitched Traveller)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Simple, Unique, Delightful	What I love the most about this journal is how the pages will so easily lay flat when open. This desirable trait comes from the book's unique binding. 128 pages in eight folds held between two sturdy covers, all stitched together at six points. This binding edge is exposed and gives the book an over-all artistic handcrafted appearance, accentuating the Asian characteristic. Inside the back cover is a brief but interesting piece of background information. What is seen on the cover is a Zen art piece done by Gessh Soko and is titled Moon (Not Know Bright Moon Autumn). The paper itself is acid-free, of thick archive value, formed from recycled fibers, in a color of light cream with narrow margins and twenty-six lines per page. Making it an impressive, handsome and practical journal to record your memories and observations in. Made in Hong Kong.	2004-02-06
US	39409668	R18S77T27DU15B	0849917654	6775854	Lessons from a Sheep Dog	Books	4	27	31	N	N	a parable from man's best friend	A fundamental failing piece of detail about this book is the author's total repetitiveness with words and ideas. Not all so bad if you read a little, leave it and come back to it later, but with the size and length of this book, that's probably unlikely. It's quick and easy to read all the way through when the total number of pages is below a hundred. <br />But it is a wonderful story and it illustrated many key points that stuck with me. Opening my mind up to a different perspective that makes sense. Touching the heart because of the familiarity generated from my own experiences in small animal husbandry I've had ever since I was a kid. One valuable point I took away from the text was a different interpretation about what it means to fear the Lord contrary to Old Testament viewpoints. By the author's account, to fear God is to have such a loving respect for Him as to be afraid of bringing Him grief or disappointment.<br />Even with its draw back, this story is not all so bad; it does make quite a few good points. Those who love animals and/or own a pet of any kind will definitely enjoy it, because it warmly relates to that special bond of friendship between human and animal. A healing and teaching connection that comes over time in the development of companionship, trust, obedience and perception from choosing and caring for a pet.	2004-02-06
US	39409668	RQUKPEHKI1XU6	0471430307	29750167	Understanding Depression: What We Know and What You Can Do About It	Books	2	23	33	N	N	I don't understand	After I had seen a therapist and progressed through weeks of beneficial treatment, I set out on my own to search for more helpful information. I was going to buy this book in the bookstore; I had in hand, but declined to purchase it. After borrowing it from a library and giving it a closer look I am mighty glad that I didn't waste my money. Because this book basically offered me nothing I didn't already know or already understood about my depression experience. Nor did it present anything I was remotely interested in because its subject content is extremely broad, including all manifestations of severe depressive disorders, treatments and medical occupations mostly irrelevant to me. Needless to say, I ended up skimming chapters from start to finish.<br />This massing of material gives it a textbook feel. Made even more evident in how the author remains rather speculative or skeptical; basically sticking to proven facts, dwelling immensely on history, boring statistics and the biological science of depression to a point of near confusion. The author seems to play it safe and skirts the edge with no clear expression on any strongly opinionated side of issues like those concerning \\"alternative\\" treatments. Mainly remaining on neutral ground and bouncing back 'n forth. The author also goes the long, descriptive and complicated way about saying very little and is extremely repetitive. What surfaces continuously is how the author claims that what we know and understand about depression is actually very diminutive and not really clear. Though this is true and certainlly what we know now is a lot more than what we knew twenty years ago. But actually all of this got to be quite draining. Also not to mention how the book seems to present no real strong sense of what a common person afflicted with depression can do about it other than what they probably have conventionally done already.<br />The book is contradictive and inappropriately titled. To me it seems written more so for those studying in a professional, specialized and advanced field significant to technically improving depressive illnesses. Plus the author dwells quite a bit on his own method of practice. I was quite dissatisfied and unimpressed with this book and would not recommend it, especially not to someone currently struggling through a severe depression of any kind.	2004-02-02
US	39409668	R33CK14VN27BYH	0395566924	703180167	WOODEN SHIP :  The Art, History and Revival of Wooden Boatbuilding	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Nautical Nostalgia	A foremost attraction to this sizeable book is it's huge flotilla of photography. The reader will uncover a fine collection of colored images, many in full page and double page layouts. Illustrating in depth the highly involved art of boat building and its engineering history. The book elaborates on the construction ingenuity to various ships and the livelihood of their owners throughout the ages, from Viking to whaling. <br />In text the book provides information on the evolution of wooden boats. Starting with a variety of small and simple rowing craft, gradually moving up in scale to the great sailing ships of trade and war. Then it dwells on the origin of the yacht and continues with a few forms of wooden recreational, motorized and/or sailing boats found today. The book describes the different methods and styles of past ship building, either shell first or skeleton frame first, using either smooth-skin (carvel) or lapstrake (clinker) planking. Birch bark canoes, single-log dugouts to even \\"five-log\\" canoes are accounted for as well.<br />A large devotion of the book goes to the construction of the Susan Constant replica, detailed in pictures, practically step by step. Ship reconstruction of the Batavia is also given a presence by some text and pictures in comparison to the Susan Constant. Then the story of the Swedish war ship Vasa is mentioned. But before all this the book is involved with the subject of Viking ships, giving an overview of a couple magnificent old relics found nearly intact and preserved. Here too, the book also anchors some attention to the building of a replica vessel from the Viking-era. <br />There is plenty of interesting information in this book, though you won't find a glossary of nautical terms or a list of definitions to ship parts, just an index of picture credits. But that's the real delight in this book; it's fantastic photos, detailed drawings and intricate models of ships revealing them inside and out, new or old. The display of carvings and embellishments from lavishly decorated ships of the seventeenth century to the simple beauty of classic motorboats from the twentieth century, is an artistic combination of wind, wood and water.	2003-10-30
US	39409668	R1CAHZ7L0ZSTCE	0961719702	432578570	The Sea Wing disaster	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Account of the ill-fated Steamboat	Dangers in traveling by steamboat were not something out of the ordinary to the people in the late 1800's. Steamer accidents where not uncommon, but what makes the Sea Wing tragedy in 1890 so significant is the amount of lives it claimed, many of them being women and children. But it's also unusual for the reason of what caused it. Not by a mechanical error or necessarily a structural flaw, but by the weather, being in the wrong place, leaving at the wrong time while exceeding its certified carrying capacity. The 200 plus people who were out enjoying a summer afternoon excursion aboard the Sea Wing steamboat and it's barge the Jim Grant, found themselves helplessly caught in a severe storm with tornado-like characteristics. As a result, the Sea Wing capsized far from Lake Pepin's shoreline, drowning many of its passengers held within.<br />Recreated in full, the author superbly illustrates the tragedy and the lives it painfully affected in Minnesota and Wisconsin towns along the Upper Mississippi River. He details the mystery of what happened and how much at fault the captain and crew were considered responsible. Not to mention the heroic struggles, the solemn duties in recovering the dead and the mournful tasks given to the surviving public on shore. <br />Compiled from diligent archive research, the facts and information are kept clear, further enhanced by an interesting collection of black and white photos. Towards the end of the book appears a list giving short descriptions of those who died and those who survived, which is also followed by the court investigation report.<br />Easy to read and attractively written, the author includes many, maybe small, but still important drama elements, which made learning about this calamity that much more chilling. It's a good book that commemorates the disastrous event quite well.	2003-10-18
US	39409668	R286FPZWFA7KOH	1401064337	486505403	Laura Ingalls Wilder Historic Highway Guide: Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, South Dakota, USA	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Historic Travel Reading	The main purpose of this guide is to acquaint the reader with what is to be found along the designated historic highway and places that have a significant relation to Laura Ingalls Wilder. The book is an overview of different regions in Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and South Dakota where Laura Ingalls Wilder lived in the 1800's as described in her books. Starting in Wisconsin and ending in South Dakota, taking you town by town, following the movement of Laura and her family as she grew up on the Western Frontier.<br />The journey is broken down into sections that highlight a few places to visit in each area. Starting in Wisconsin's Upper Coulee Country &amp; Mississippi River Valley, to the Mississippi Valley &amp; Bluff Country of Minnesota &amp; Iowa, then to the Minnesota River Valley and finally the Prairies of Minnesota &amp; South Dakota. Interesting period history and some geographic information is given on these regions throughout the pages, which also exhibits a good share of black and white pictures. After these chapters come a few notes on Festivals &amp; Pageants in certain towns along the route. Then the author talks about different travel option ideas for interest, such as small convoy camping or large group motor coach tours. At the back of the book is a quick reference list mainly giving phone numbers and some other contact information for towns &amp; cities in each of the previously mentioned areas.<br />The book is fairly decent but meager and it really may not be what you expect. It provides very little in direct help on planning a trip (recommended places to eat or stay) but does gives a &quot;lengthy&quot; explanation of the Dakota Conflict of 1862. It's just as much, or maybe even more so, a book of U.S. history facts, findings and events as it is of an actual travel guide.	2003-10-02
US	39409668	R3BUUNBX6IDUKB	1591430062	572999992	The Lost Treasure of King Juba: The Evidence of Africans in America before Columbus	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Evidence of Mauretanians in the Midwest	Accidentally found by an amateur named Russell Burrows, the extraordinary collection of artifacts taken from a cave in southern Illinois has been believed to be a fake and a hoax. Viewed with much opposition and skepticism by many lofty archeological experts. A large subterranean crypt which is accounted to contain gold statues, sarcophagi, coins and medallions, uncut diamonds and inscribed scrolls among many other valuable antiquities. But the most intriguing artifacts to come out of Burrows Cave are the hundreds of portrait stones. All depicting men and women in more than just Roman, Egyptian, Phoenician, Numidian and Hebrew appearances as well as their written languages. This mixture of ancient society found in one unusual setting seems all too good to be true, as nothing else like it has ever been found in the New World. But the author presents a large amount of curious evidence in how authenticity is considered possible, and explains the important links to pre-Columbian history. He tells of many other significant findings made in Illinois, North America, South America and the Old World that provide factual support for verification. Bringing it all together effectively with great persuasive detail.<br />The author begins with a thorough history of King Juba II and how he and his wife, Cleopatra Selene became rulers of ancient Mauretania in North Africa. Then continues to explain the war waged by Rome against this semi-independent nation and it's effects, or the Mauertanian exodus it caused. All of these events the author illustrates in a slightly dramatized manner. With the majority of chapters that follow, he focuses on the Illinois site; it's relics and the comments of various experts, while giving his own viewpoints and understandings. The information is arranged well with perfect quotes at the start of each chapter, plenty of black and white photos and a summarizing timeline. Because there is still much that remains untold and undiscovered on the subject, could be why the book wasn't closed with a strong conclusion. And I also felt that a few more maps, besides the one of Illinois would have been beneficial to the book. But otherwise I was pleased with it overall.<br />Whether the existence of a \\"treasure house of gold\\" remains entirely true or not, it still is a very interesting and educational read. Even the actions and nature of Mr. Burrows, and the trouble he caused interested investigators, makes it read almost something like a fiction novel. And as controversial as theories can be, it still is a story that shouldn't be ignored or remain lost in time. For starters, Frank Joseph's book will entice your curiosity.	2003-09-21
US	39409668	R10BQY851HIMW	0915024926	813717909	Paddling Southern Wisconsin : 82 Great Trips By Canoe & Kayak (Trails Books Guide)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Wander Wisconsin Waterways	This exceptional and consistent trail guide offers eighty-two different sections to paddle on thirty-two rivers in southern Wisconsin, flexible enough to be made into day trips or overnight camping trips. Each stretch of river highlighted is done with great attention to what needs to be known and little information seems to be left out. River segments are treated similarly, the number of miles are stated, the launching and landing points of access are described, where camping, rentals and shuttle services are available (just phone numbers are supplied), the general gradient (rate of descent) in average conditions, other places to paddle within the chosen area, notes of history, full page maps and many small but nice black & white pictures. A detailed dialogue of each trip is also given, providing a sufficient idea of what to expect around the next river bend. <br />The book has a very thorough introduction that doesn't overlook the crucial skills and dangers to be aware of. It frequently mentions the importance of being informed about changing water levels and directs the reader to websites for finding such up-to-date info. The book also has a host of reference materials relevant to Wisconsin such as a list of annual events, clubs & organizations, websites, recommended reading (including bike trails and fishing!). Recommended books and videos for improving skills and a categorized list of certain river sections suitable for beginner, intermediate or expert paddlers plus a list of what fish are found most plentiful in each river.<br />The information you'll find here exceeds that of an average guidebook. Revealed are the many charms of Wisconsin to be found along its waterways. Unusual rock formations, old dams, waterwheel mills, historic buildings, covered bridges, rolling hills, valleys and narrow coulees, farmland, woodland, marshes, fun riffles and rapids, wildlife and so much more. Best experienced and discovered from the unique vantage point of a canoe or kayak. [reviewed at amazon.com by tilley_traveler]	2003-07-24
US	39409668	R2RX6UAE0UK3IG	1563319306	415570885	Discovery Travel Adventure Paddle Sports (Discovery Travel Adventures)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	take me to the river!	Here is an excellent resource for gaining knowledge on renowned paddle sport destinations in the United States. Reading this guidebook will entice the notion to ply the paddle through new waters. <br />It begins with a basic over view for getting the novice started, ideas for essential preparedness during trip planning and notes for deciding what kind of a paddling experience is desired. This involves choosing the right gear and it gives an introduction to the various types of watercraft that are available. Mentioning whitewater kayaks, sea kayaks, canoes, dories and inflatable rafts with a description of the differences in function, the pros and cons between and amongst them. <br />Next is a section on Paddling Destinations which include; Mount Desert Island ME; Adirondack Park, NY; Youghiogheny River, PA; Nantahala River, NC; Okefenokee Swamp, GA; Boundary Waters, MN; Apostle Islands, WI; Upper Missouri River, MT; the Middle Fork of Salmon River, ID; Snake River, WY; Labyrinth &amp; Stillwater Canyons of Utah; Grand Canyon/Colorado River in AZ; Monterey Bay, CA; South Fork of the American River, CA; Rogue River in OR; San Juan Islands, WA; Glacier Bay and Noatak River in Alaska. <br />Average air and water temperatures, skill level awareness and warnings, natural science and history are all mixed in to the vivid descriptions of what will draw a paddler to each location. Important features, like the names of towns, lakes or rapids are set in boldface type throughout the paragraphs. At the end of each chapter are two pages of Travel Tips, detailing when to go, how to get there, addresses and phone numbers for obtaining information on permits, prices, camping &amp; lodging, tours &amp; outfitters, plus additional info on other nearby destinations as supplemental water excursions. <br />Also found in this book are visual maps, an image layout labeling the canoe and kayak anatomy, an explanation of the International Scale of Whitewater Difficulty or how and why rapidsare classified as they are, plus awesome color photos at the turn of every page. The resource directory offers a list of further reading, contact information for paddling schools or clubs and some websites for learning more.<br />The variety in this book is an inviting mixture for all paddle sport enthusiasts at any level. And it directs the beginner with the right information to help make it into a life long sport of fulfillment. In fact it captures the essence of paddling so eloquently that it had me biting my lip in anticipation at the mere description of legendary whitewater rapids, smiling with the expressions captured on the faces of rapid riders and yearning for the adventure of discovery found in each awe inspiring vista displayed by the photographs. It certainly will whet the appetite for embarking on a grand paddling adventure. This book can help make it happen, as it is a handy reference for planning that prime paddling experience.	2003-07-22
US	39409668	R35NWN7KI8KECL	0890512779	531322239	The Lost World Adventures	Books	5	8	11	N	N	A Creative Delight!	Written and illustrated by Mark Stephen Smith this fiction book for young readers closely and quite nicely mimics The Lost World story by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. But Smith makes it uniquely different in so many ways and does an admirable job of mixing Christian spirituality into its fabrication. Easily he weaves in faith and presents the creation story with some genuine reasoning based upon it in relation to dinosaurs. <br />Taking place in the early 1900's, a small group of adventurers set out to locate and explore the fable of a lost world hidden atop a high plateau in the midst of an unknown Amazon region of South America. Their objective is to bring back for the Royal Zoological Society in London, personal accounts and evidence of primitive/prehistoric life encountered there, (natives, ape-men, and dinosaurs). The characters and their personalities are shuffled around a bit, written in third person rather than first person when compared to Doyle's novel. But it remains true in context and I was pleasantly surprised when Smith added Sir Arthur Conan Doyle as a main character in the story. <br />In the beginning of this eight-chapter book, the reader is brought into the depths of the Amazon jungle where Lord George Roxton is on the hunt of a large pesky serpentine, and I thought this first chapter took on the likeness of a Crocodile Hunter scenario. But this alternate beginning engages the interest wonderfully and makes a nice lead into more of Doyle's original storyline. The book exhibits many colorful cartoon-like illustrations throughout its pages and these are imaginative and quite whimsical. Their addition reveals the story beautifully and impressively. <br />Smith takes the Lost World story of Doyle's and utilizes it in a way to demonstrate certainty in the chronicle of creation and mistaken facts in the evolution idea, but keeps it all very simple and clear. It's great Christian based reading and should appeal to young minds. Because of its curious creativity and its Christian viewpoints, this book is a distinctive stand out. [reviewed at amazon.com by tilley_traveler]	2003-07-07
US	39409668	RYVWJGYF5SZ7D	0865714754	56955505	Cordwood Building: The State of the Art (Natural Building Series)	Books	5	49	50	N	N	an Introductory and Directory	An ancient method of habitat building, cordwood masonry has experienced a renewed interest due to modern technique improvements and the positive, beneficial characteristics gained on many levels in respect to the environment, energy efficiency from it's unique thermal mass, simplicity and easy access of materials needed, relative durability and the overall natural beauty. This latest book by Rob Roy is great for the person who is interested in cordwood structures and doesn't know much about the undertaking to building their own home in the same fashion. With this book you'll obtain a general understanding of the process and requirements, which is presented with thorough and even mathematical explanations.<br />The book is broken up into four parts dedicated to different topic concerns. The first section highlights a little history of the scientific art, including an introduction to the author, his passion and experiences in cordwood masonry, coming from some 25 years. The next section addresses the procedure of construction and touches on some important issues with technique. Also pesented here are some successful solutions learn by others for polygon floor plans, optimum corner strength, using the post & beam method, cement foundations and footings (with brief notes on earthquake endurance to where it may be applicable), and incorporating bottle designs by recycling glass to bring in special touches of color and light. Other fundamental topics discussed include electrical wiring, double wall and general wall thickness, making the Lomax corner, recipes for mortar mixes, papercrete (paper enhanced mortar) and \\"cobwood\\" variations using straw, plus pointing the mortar, and patching cracks after wood and/or mortar shrinkage. It also talks about what species of wood are best, how to select, prepare and store the wood and describes a design for making a specialized cordwood cutoff table using a chainsaw. Equally important, the book also touches on a few common sense reminders about construction site safety. <br />Information in parts two and three overlap some, but it's kept from sounding repetitive. The third group of chapters is primarily dedicated to personal accounts and stories from various cordwood owner-builders from the United States, Canada, Europe and Chile.<br />The last section hinges on financial matters and business details. The importance of being organized and informed about construction codes, seeking advice from an architect, getting a builder's permit, and how to deal with the building inspector and other paper people. Part four also provides some basic thoughts and how-to ideas for building a cordwood home mortgage free. The useful bibliography includes an overview of related books, videos, magazines, websites and online groups to further your knowledge; these are given with short, helpful descriptions.<br />In vast majority the photographs throughout the book are black and white, but there's an eight page middle section with beautiful color photos of cordwood buildings inside and out. It's not the only resource you should bank on, but this book is certainly a superb, user friendly introductory to the topic and a nice follow up reference after, or even before workshop participation. For those who are serious about building a sustainable home using the cordwood technique, I highly recommend it. [reviewed at amazon.com by tilley_traveler]	2003-07-02
US	39409668	R34Z0Q253OZKZF	1929266049	215645928	Mustard Seeds: Daily Thoughts to Grow with	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Daily Thoughts To Grow With - exactly!	Excellent food for thought with so much more to offer, the simple interpretations and observations found within this little book are perfectly presented for challenging your growth in spiritual understanding, personal relationships and interactions. It's a great collection of insight to fuel self-improvement by encouraging prayer and deep thinking in your quiet moments of silence.<br />The book has a very fitting introduction to the author, but the real gem of it all is the author's messages and motivational reflections. Broken down into short, poignant captions or stories, one found under each day of the month, [excluding a leap year] and range from a simple sentence to a couple of paragraphs in length. Most are direct and straight forward in design, others are more complex for pondering, but all will provoke the mind. It's a wonderful source that does not become exhaustible, remains timeless year after year. Repeat through the book annually and the words will become embedded in your thoughts, and with it, will come a new generation of discoveries in how the knowledge can be applied to your own life all over again.<br />Instead of just strictly reading one by one on a daily basis, I'll sometimes keep reading through a whole month's worth of passages until I come across a statement that stands out in my mind, persuading me to meditate on it. Either way you choose to use it, the book is fairly easy to relate to and the concepts are just right for contemplation. Keep them in the back of your mind for inspiration and share with others.<br />If you're familiar with Matthew Kelly or not, anyone interested can plant these seeds of wisdom in their life and gain from them. The book is a very recommendable buy.	2003-05-06
US	39409668	R34JJIXERBVJRL	0811834603	508630900	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook: Golf	Books	4	11	11	N	N	the life and death adventures in golf	Survival Rule #1 Watch Where You're Driving and that doesn't just mean at the tee off! Like all the Worst-Case Scenario Books in the series, this one has the familiar, easy to read layout with step-by-step instructions that are brief but informative. Nice how this sport edition gives a few words of advice on playing the game and explains how the official rules of golf apply in the unique situations, plus highlights a few guidelines to keeping good golf etiquette, which is all helpful for preventing confusion and heated debate among players.<br />The topic is divided into just a few chapters called: Bad Lies, Equipment Disasters, Dangerous Animals and Golfing Emergencies. The scenarios covered range from how to retrieve a ball lost in the ball washer, retrieve a ball from a gopher hole, how to keep score without a pencil, how to spot a cheat, disarm an irate golfer, start a dead cart, stop a runaway cart or free a cart from a sand trap. How to prevent a club from flying out of your hand and how to retrieve a golf club or golf ball lodged in a tree [they recommend wearing a hard hat to protect your head during this operation, imagine that!]. How to drive with a putter or putt with a driver, how to survive if you run out of tees, how to treat a sprained ankle, a blister, poison ivy, sunburn, heatstroke or dehydration. How to deal with a brush fire, alligator, snake, rabid animal or an attack by birds, not to mention how to deal with a fashion emergency or recognize a golf addiction. There is even a little over view on gambling bets and some translation of golfspeak. Also advice is included for avoiding lighting strikes and tornados while you're outside in open areas.<br />This book is a riot and the illustrations are great, they add so much and they truly are hilarious. A golfer at any level or interest will love it and even those who make fun of the sport and hate it, might find the book enjoyable too. It has an answer for nearly every golfer's nightmare, giving tipsfor surviving a life and death situation that probably will just end up being all par for the course.	2003-04-19
US	39409668	RXCQS634ZZB50	155971221X	298802791	The Wild Berry Book: Romance, Recipes, & Remedies (Camp and Cottage)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Romance, Recipes and Remedy Folklore	The presented material of commonly found wild berries is done in summarized fashion, making this book an easy read. Plus it's all very inviting, rich with quotations, eye-catching color photos and wonderful illustrations, giving the book much appeal.<br />Wild berries of merit are divided into three sections and those found in the first two chapters are described in a basic layout with: Introduction, Description &amp; Locality, Edibility &amp; Recipes, Etymology, History &amp; Folklore plus Reputed Medical Virtues. It also goes through various common names given to many wild berries. All of these details, which include some idea for bloom season and ripening season, are mostly provided for general idea, kept very basic. With even less information highlighted in the following chapter aptly labeled Minor Berries. Before the book ends it also furnishes a brief notation of fifteen poisonous berries, in common and Latin names but simply says to avoid them, giving no visual description beyond the four pictures, or any other useful clarifications for awareness. So the book is not very consistent with providing adequate information and a few times I had questions come to mind and where not being answered as I continued to read. For the more than thirty different berries found within, this book alone is not really well suited as a source for indentification.<br />The many recipes supplied are quite interesting and most are vintage. One recipe that struck me as curious, found on page 32 was for a 17th Century Blackberry Wine, I also loved the author's trick for a Bloddy Mary drink on page 100, using juniper to get a flavor of gin without the alcohol. Not all recipes are very practical or necessarily healthy, calling for generous amounts of sugar, but there is at least something to experiment with. Recipes to be found range from jellies, jams, syrups, wines, drinks, pies, puddings, other desserts and more. Not much is provided for instructions on making remedies. Mainly just interesting American Indian medical folklore and comments on past usage and beliefs throughout history. A sample of the wild fruits highlighted in this book (in common name) range from strawberry, blueberry, blackberry, various raspberries, elderberry, bayberry, gooseberry, cranberry, currants, mulberry, mahonia berry, may apple, hawthorns, rosehips, sumac, saw palmetto, wintergreen, pokeberry, snowberry and many, many more.<br />In addition to her wonderful introduction on the topic, the author does a lovely closing chapter to the book as well, telling more of her personal accounts, memories and opinions on the beneficial aspects of harvesting from the wild, which uniquely, is where an added touch of romance falls in. Certainly is great as casual reading for the experienced berry hunter and because of its good advice it's a decent introductory book for the beginner.	2003-03-29
US	39409668	R3VSQVXYN1E0AK	0811831310	81462617	The Worst Case Scenario Survival Handbook: Travel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Wanna Be Indiana Jones Handbook	Being that I have found these Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbooks in the humor section at the bookstore, would give an indication as to what they might entail. They're not quite like an instructive first-aid guidebook with very short, basic, right to the point instructions, but it still takes each subject rather seriously. At any rate one can still learn a thing or two that would be good to remember in the occasion of possibility. A likely example would be the simple idea of counting seats on the plane or doors in the hotel that are along your route to the emergency exit. If visibility is impaired by smoke applying this knowledge would give vital seconds to your quest for safety. Also included are some emergency phrases in four languages (Spanish, French, German and Japanese) and a brief notation of gestures to avoid in certain places, plus a summary of travel tips. All this might seem like basic travel wisdom, but it doesn't hurt to be reminded incase one forgets. As the book series so eloquently puts it, you never know, just expect the unexpected.<br />Topics range from how to foil a scam artist, survive a mugging or mass riot, how to escape from being tied up, how to ram a barricade, jump from roof top to roof top or lose someone following you, how stop a car without brakes or escape from a car hanging over a cliff edge, how to crash land a small plane, control a runaway horse, survive a sandstorm, tsunami or a trip over a waterfall, how to survive when lost in the jungle, how to find your way without a compass, how to survive in frigid water or escape a riptide, make a snow shelter, deal with leeches, piranhas, scorpions and tarantulas, catch food, find water, and many, many more. The only thing missing is how to use a bullwhip. But I was greatly disappointed to discover absolutely nothing on what to do in the event of a tornado or hurricane.<br />Imagining someone consulting their Worst-Case Scenario Handbook while in a hostage situation or trying to stop arunaway passenger train just makes me chuckle at the very thought. But at the same time it's spooky to think that it could happen. It's a handbook set apart from the rest and I would recommend this travel edition along with the original Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook to anyone who is an adventure enthusiast and would love to enrich his or her clever & crafty know-how on such survival tricks. A great gift idea for something slightly unusual and potentially useful.<br />It provides good, sound information but read it more for it's amusement and entertainment. Take it along with you wherever you go, it'll make a great conversation starter. If nothing else, \\"the pages can be used as emergency toilet paper if you're really in a jam.\\" - page 18 [review author: tilley_traveler]	2003-01-19
US	39409668	RK2BP2L9LQHV0	1885061994	485131664	Minnesota Day Trips by Theme	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Makings for a Minnesota Migration	This guidebook deals with some great topics and locations in the state of Minnesota, plus highlighting a few to be found in western Wisconsin as well. It's a good connection to a variety of destinations and because of the wide range of interests covered; there is something here for everyone's curiosity, set of pace and budget. A few of the themed chapters revolve around: Family Day, Country Churches, Small Town Antiquing, Caves, Waterfalls, Garden Tours, Wine & Beer Tours, History & Arts, Train Trips, Romantic Getaways, the cities of Duluth and Rochester and many more. My personal favorite, the chapter that I particularly relished was The Extreme Adventures. But all together I think the book skimped out on one of my favorite activities, downhill skiing. It seemed like the small list of ski places was an 'oh by the way' last minute addition to the Odds & Ends chapter. But on the other hand, it provides many other options for winter sports, and outdoor recreation for all seasons in general.<br />On most attractions the book offers a load of marvelous facts, sometimes giving clues as to what the expense, season and hours are expected to be like. In addition to some very basic directions and map illustrations along with address, phone number, and/or internet connections. But the book is not always so consistent in providing these helpful details on every place listed. There is a short but beneficial outline of contents at the beginning of each chapter, highlighting the information found under each theme. This makes it easier to find certain attractions but not necessarily certain places or towns.<br />It's great for discovering something new and unique to explore in the Minnesota region and the author's personal touch of suggestions should help make your trip an interesting experience. This book is best used for brainstorming, to find intriguing destinations for a short trip on a weekend. It might also be useful in obtaining information on places around a particular location for a trip already in the planning. [review author: tilley_traveler]	2003-01-11
US	39409668	R2VAFOWWO9CUB6	1585742732	490016137	Outwitting Poison Ivy	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Easy To Use, Easy To Understand	If you don't known much about the trio of poisonous plants, this book is a good place to start. It has a satisfying amount of information for identifying poison ivy, oak or sumac, where they are most likely to be found, plus scientific background and history. Then it provides guidelines for classifying your sensitivity and what to expect in a reaction, as well as ideas for remedies and prevention. Also included are stories from other poison ivy sufferers so the book does tend to repeat itself when discussing how the common myths are misleading. But because it has decent photos for quick identification; handy charts for finding desired info fast and basic tips for avoidance, makes this book a good reference to have on hand. Not to mention that it's size makes it an easy one to pack with your gear for extended trips into the backwoods. <br />Prevention is the best way to outwit the effects of poison ivy and this book will inform you on all you need to know. {After reading, I couldn't help but notice that the cover image is inadequate, because the poisonous plants described have white berries, not red.}	2002-09-18
US	39409668	R1E9U3VWGOIRD9	0971690405	352713373	The Little Tow-Watcher's Guide: To Towboats and Barges on the Upper Mississippi River	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Learn Towboat Basics	I have to admit, I had only a half-hearted attraction to the topic. When I first picked up this book I was curious, but skeptical if it would grab and hold my interest. What this little book has to offer is a bit surprising. The casual observer can learn towboat terminology and get a closer glimpse of what the job is like, all told with mild humor from the author. In the back there is a list of frequently spotted towboats and a little information about them.<BR>If you have a secret fascination with river traffic and are curious to know more about what you see. This book is for you.	2002-08-04
US	39409668	R361UTGGA2ZG41	0961296437	632097054	Edible & Medicinal Wild Plants of Minnesota & Wisconsin	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Answer Book	I wouldn't say this is the one and only book you'll ever need. But it certainly is a GREAT addition to anyone's herbal library.  It's relatively easy to use, because the plants are listed in alphabetical order by their common names. The food qualities and health benefits of the plants are thorough and informative, as well as their habitat and visual description. Points of interest are easy to find and there is a listing of plants that are good for certain illnesses. Plus short descriptions of how to use and prepare them. <br />This book is very scientific and seems to cover it all in an up-to-date fashion. But if you're not familiar with terms in botany and biology you'll find this book a little difficult to understand. It has a good glossary but a dictionary is still handy at times. <BR>None the less the book has true to life color photos, which are the best I've seen for wild plant identification. Considerably this just may be the answer book for this topic. It's defiantly worth the price, if you desire to take wild herb collecting seriously.	2002-07-18
US	39409668	R2SDG0RHVYZ258	1879483696	956161896	Down the Mississippi With Stinky: 2 Women, a Canoe, and a Kitten (Wisconsin)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Remarkably Good Story	What an interesting book, I loved it!!<BR>Dorie and Lou's canoe trip from Lake Bemidji in Minnesota to the city of New Orleans is an exciting river adventure. They experienced a number of hair-raising situations that made the book anything but boring. While dealing with the unforgiving weather and the unpredictable river, they meet some friendly people who helped them out along the way. And confronted some who didn't, like a skunk, a thief and other campsite intruders. <BR>It's an excellent read for those who love camping, canoeing, river stories and even cats. Dorie gives a good description of their journey and preparations. Even though it took place back in the summer of 1960 it's still very informative and interesting. Especially for those who have a fancy for doing something like this.<br />A pet, such as a cat, can teach its human companions so many things about life. Not to mention how the silly antics of a cat can get its owners into trouble. Just as Dorie and Lou found out when they adopted a lonely kitten early in their trip. <BR>Stinky the kitten is a wonderful ingredient to their story, and it's likely that you wont find anything similar to this book anywhere else.	2002-07-13
US	39409668	R2J41NP7KBXBU9	1588275019	4311016	Allan Quatermain	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Old Friends, New Adventures	After reading King Solomon's Mines, I was eager to read this sequel, and I found it to be simular, yet different from the previous. The story is just as exciting, sharing the same reflective outlook on life and search for truth. Written in the same style with a bit of humor and a little more emotion than the first novel.<br />The main characters from King Solomon's Mines reunite for a second journey into Africa, Meeting new dangers and some unpredictable natives. Also encountering adventure, discovery and battle much like before. Two of the old, well traveled companions meet their end in this book, which resonates a deep sobering impression throughout. Once again my favorite part was the last few chapters, a gripping sequence of events that conclude with a great over all ending.<br />I enjoyed both books equally, although I think I still like King Solomon's Mines a little more.<br />But hey, one good aventure deserves another, and if you've read King Solomon's Mines, I recommend this one too. The story is just as excellent and won't disapoint you.	2002-05-21
US	39409668	R3EG13AUJZBGQ9	1929266014	991966748	The Rhythm of Life: An Antidote For Our Busy Age	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Matthew Kelly - An Inspiring Role Model	The title may not reveal it, but this book of Matthew Kelly's might make a good graduation gift idea. Especially for a high school student who lacks a little self confidence or remains unsure about their future plans. The Rhythm Of Life has a way of focusing the reader's mind on the things that really matter in life. In the end it will motivate anyone to strive for personal greatness. I found the book to be very insightful and easy to relate to. This is one that is worth reading, discussing and passing on to others.	2002-05-07
US	39409668	RG1TIN5NQ5LMH	188347745X	399991144	Angell's Animals : Wild Friends In An Urban World	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sharing Life With The Wild Ones	This collection of short stories will interest those who are wild about animals or birds. The author tells about her memories of the many wild creatures she met around her Minnesota home and beyond. One such story that held my attention the most was the two orphaned squirrels that her family raised and cared for. The main topic throughout the book is birds and I learned a few things about them that I didn't know before. The detailed illustrations are also worth mentioning because they fit into the stories so well, making the animals come to life as you read about them.<br />The book tends to repeat itself just a little, but I found it to be an educational read as a whole. If you're looking for stories to share with nature loving kids, this little book might be a good choice.	2002-04-30
US	39409668	R2UTVKM2G52T3F	0931714893	775509774	One Good Story	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Big River Kayaking Experience	Here the reader can join author Ron Severs on his solitary journey down the Mississippi River. Starting at Lake Itasca in Minnesota, and paddling by kayak to the Head of Passes where the river meets the Gulf of Mexico. He tells of his experiences and the kind-hearted people he met along the way, sharing some of the awkward situations that any traveler can relate to. I enjoyed the parts where he described traveling through the locks on the upper section of the river, and his encounter with the great paddle wheel boat, the Mississippi Queen. I also marveled at his courage while enduring those summer storms that have a trademark for high winds and hail. Plus the book has noteworthy pictures and maps that are helpful and really add a lot to the story.<br />But the book is not written in chronological order, the events are separated and regrouped, making it seem as if you're going down river and then jumping back up stream. Also at the end of page 92 is a puzzling cut off in mid sentence, making me wonder if there is a page or two missing. These set backs do interrupt the flow of the story, but in the end the author makes a very nice point about the journey, reasons for taking it and the rewards of accomplishing it. The book is an example of how friendships made along the way, is what makes a trip worth taking. [review author: tilley_traveler]	2002-04-23
US	39409668	R197OSZ0DDWPUF	0895263297	756102367	King Solomon's Mines (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Adventure at Every Turn	Within the pages of this novel is a tale of legend, treasure, adventure, friendship and warfare. H. Ridder Haggard twines all these components together in an intriguing fashion. Making it so close to reality that it seems likely to have happend long ago. The character, Alan Quatermain retells the journey taken in deep Africa with his comrades, reflecting on the irony of their many precarious situations. What I liked most was his observations of life and the matter-of-fact truth in it. How the characters were drawn to contemplate the value of life and what makes it worth living. Their quest does turn gruesome at points. But the author provides some very clever solutions to their perils, which sometimes are quite humorous.<br />The last five chapters are the highlight of the book. These climaxes are expertly written and will keep you reading till the very end. The first few pages might seem confusing, but it makes perfect sense when reading it thru the second time. King Solomon's Mines is a novel with riveting, good vs. evil character development and it is a worthwhile read. I recommend it to anyone who likes a first-rate adventure.<br />Out of all the different publications to choose from, I say consider a copy from Regnery Publishing, Inc. ... 1999. For it has an easy to read layout and print. It also has numerous typos and makes me wonder if that isn't directly from the 1885 original. Other than that, the book has a nice introduction to the author and his works. Giving some Hollywood film history of King Solomon's Mines along with other interesting notes. This really opens up the story to the reader, and makes it a memorable one.	2002-04-18
