US	39426313	R7S2RV2JGPYXP	1586850822	376011118	Early American Indian Dolls (Primitive Poster Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful Poster!	This is a wonderful, informative poster featuring dolls from Native American tribes. The dolls shown represent the Sioux, Crow, Apache, Southern Cheyenne, Northern Cheyenne, Kiowa, Mandan and Nez Perce and Delaware tribes. Each one of these primitive dolls is clearly labeled with its tribe of origin and height. Although collectors of historic Native American dolls will enjoy this poster, I believe it also will have a broader appeal. Each doll speaks of nature, its tribe, and its culture. I enjoy looking at each doll and wondering about the children who played with them as they learned the adult roles of their culture. Be sure to check with the publisher's website if this is a hard to find item. It is worth the search.	2005-08-21
US	39426313	RFS5P5GJ9OFDE	0618479082	420569631	Health and Healing: The Philosophy of Integrative Medicine and Optimum Health	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Objective View Of Mulitple Healing Modalities	Dr. Weil presents an objective view of many healing modalities that may be familar to most Americans. He includes allopathic (traditional Western) medicine, homeopathic, naturopathic, osteopathic, and chiropractic paths; acupunction, holistic medicine, shamanism/mind cures/faith healing, and psychic healing. He not only presents assets and disadvantages of each modality, but also presents some theories on why any course of treatment works. He explores the role of faith and the patient's belief in the treatment as a positive contributor to the effectiveness of the treatment. He describes the \\"placebo effect\\", where people are cured of illness by drugs that have no biological affect on the illness. He discusses the origins and effectiveness of pharmeceutical drugs and narcotics. <br /> <br />Dr. Weil's questioning leads the reader to also question his/her own role in healing and in making appropriate choices in health care. His treatise does not entirely put down allopathic or alternative medicine, but does put each in its place so the reader is left with a sense of responsibility. It is up to us to decide what we, as persons seeking health, need in terms of treatment and what will choose to place our faith in.	2005-07-04
US	39426313	RIYZWD19GVVVR	0875885373	882255872	Mary Frances Sewing Book	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Priceless	The Mary Frances Sewing Book was originally published in 1913 and recently reprinted in the late 1990's. An Edwardian girl staying with grandma for a few months during the summer meets the \\"Thimble People\\" (needles, scissors, pincushion, etc.) who engage her in weekly sewing lessons. The reader can work through the lessons, from learning stitches to sewing doll clothes with Mary Frances as directions with illustrations are given throughout the text.  <br /> <br />One practical aspect of this book is that basic hand sewing stitches are taught with descriptions and illustrations. I found this part very educational since the only sewing stitch I learned in childhood is the \\"running stitch\\". I had no idea there were so many stitches for hand sewing that can be applied to hand sewing garments. I also learned the strawberry tassle on my tomato pin cushion is an \\"Emery Bag\\", which can be used for cleaning needles as you pull them through the little bag. <br /> <br />If you purchase a copy of this book sold in its original condition, it comes with patterns to make the garments Mary Frances makes for her doll. However, based on illustrations and the time period, Mary Frances' doll is a 16 inch doll with a composition body and a porcelain head. While the fashions are appropriate for this kind of doll, they are not necessarily appropriate for a modern doll. There are many more current pattern books and pattern sources to sew for both modern dolls and antique/antique reproduction dolls. The only use I would see for the patterns is for use by the individual who would like to specifically work through the book. <br /> <br />That said, I loved this book! I am not going to stop sewing doll clothes on my machine or start dressing my modern doll in Edwardian fashions. I loved this book for what it is-an example of structured sewing lessons used by girls 100 years ago, when girls practiced their skills on doll clothes but would one day use them for sewing and mending their family's clothes.  <br /> <br />I also enjoyed the story \\"sewn\\" into the lessons. The talking scissors and pincushion, etc. argue with each other like siblings; making the characters more interesting and adding a bit of spice to the story. The sewing bird talks in rhyme; carrying the text along quickly. Mary Frances misses her family while at grandma's house, and has a few other brief adventures inside and outside of her sewing lessons. If you enjoy sewing for dolls and have a taste for a nostalgic, old-fashioned childhood, then this book will be priceless!	2005-03-06
US	39426313	R2VW5ZAF431PBZ	1564775895	430032560	American Doll Quilts	Books	5	54	54	N	Y	Long Awaited Treasure	I first became interested in doll quilts in October 2004 as I tired from a creative binge of sewing doll clothes, but still wanted low commitment sewing projects to work on. Little quilts and doll quilts are smaller versions of larger quilt patterns. Doll quilts are an excellent start for any beginning quilter or for those who prefer short term projects. Historically, doll quilts were often made by children as they practiced sewing and quilting skills. Today, they are suitable projects for beginning adults as well as supervised children.<br /><br />\\"American Doll Quilts\\" breaks quilt styles into time periods, giving several different quilt patterns for each time period. There are 16 historical quilt designs in this book; complete with lists of materials, directions, color illustrations of each step and full color photos of completed quilts. The author describes fabric, color, and pattern choices for making historical quilts as well as how and when to tea dye a fabric for an antique look.<br /><br />Although no specific dolls are mentioned or endorsed in this book, I wanted to mention that the historical nature of these quilt patterns makes them a nice accessory to the American Girl historical dolls (as well as antique and reproduction dolls). A Colonial quilt could be given to Felicity, a Western pioneer quilt could be made for Kirsten, a Civil War Era/Underground Railroad quilt could be made for Addy, a Victorian Crazy Quilt might look nice on Samantha and Nellie's beds, and Depression and WW2 era quilts can be made for Kit and Molly. Pattterns for all of these eras and quilt types are included in this book.<br /><br />Whether made by an adult or an older child, these quilts are absolutely suited for today's audience of young historians and nostaligic adults. This book is well done. Whether you are interested in sewing historical little quilts for wall hangings, to display with antique or historical dolls, or for child's play, this book can help you create something you will be proud to have made.	2005-01-03
US	39426313	R24TJYQEVRN9GS	094262047X	405526850	A Closetful of Doll Clothes: For 11 1/2 Inch, 14-Inch, 18-Inch and 20-Inch Dolls (Creative Crafters)	Books	4	60	60	N	N	A Trouseau of Doll Clothes	The author, Rosemarie Ionker, is well established in the doll world with her doll clothing company \\"Petite Creations\\". Her company offers the highest quality doll clothing line available, so she speaks with the voice of experience. But, Ionker herself confesses in the text of this book that her designs are not for beginning seamstresses. They are presented for those who aspire to the level of detail, design and professionalism found in the garments offered by her company.<br /><br />The patterns in this book are for 4 specific dolls. The 20 inch doll and the 11 1/2 inch doll are Marley and (original)Bethany by Kish and Company, for whom Ionker regularly designs. The 18 inch doll and 14 inch doll are porcelain dolls by Diana Effner. These dolls are featured on the cover of the book are referred to throughout the text. There is no reference to these patterns being generic, and little reference for adapting them for other dolls. Of course, they can be used for other dolls. The doll measurements are given so you know if your doll is of a similar size, but the seamstress of these garments will have to determine if the patterns need to be adjusted and how to do that.<br /><br />In this book, Ionker offers patterns for coordinated \\"wardrobes\\" or \\"trousseus\\" for dolls. The basic pieces for each doll include a coat, dresses, and undergarments. She suggests usage for color themes and fabric choices, and instructs on the use of trim. She offers sewing tips and pattern notes. There is a page identifying each pattern piece in a one page layout. The reader can then find the pattern pieces in the correct size by going to the chapter for each doll.<br /><br />I would not recommend this book for modern 18 inch dolls. It is more tailored for artist quality vinyl dolls and porcelain dolls. The patterns are for clothing items now considered old-fashioned for today's children and are not pieces for modern wardrobes. These are lovely designs, though, for fans of Petite Creations. Smocking and embroidery make the photo section of this book eye candy for the adult doll collector. Whatever challenges this book may hold for the less experienced seamstress, it more than makes up for in inspiration.mocking and embroidery make the photo section of this book eye candy for the adult doll collector. Whatever challenges this book may hold for the less experienced seamstress, it more than makes up for in inspiration.	2004-11-24
US	39426313	R3GUZNQ3YCVSPQ	0764301233	10431789	The Big B-E-A-R Book (A Schiffer Book for Collectors)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One Big Book	\\"The Big Bear Book\\" is indeed one big book! But, don't let the size fool you. The text in this book is minimal compared to the size of the book. It reviews the history of teddy bears and gives a paragraph description of many of the main manufacturers. It also includes a chapter with information teddy bear events, museums, and shops. Famous teddy bears and notable teddy bear people are also mentioned. <br /> <br />What I love most about this book are the full color photos that fill almost every page of this book. Sidebars identify the bears shown, and suggest a value for the bear. Some bears are shown simply, without scene or setting, but many are shown with props, or even in the out of doors! Most of the bears are traditional, historic or famous bears (such as Alfonzo, and Winnie the Pooh) and many of those are Steiff. There are some artist bears included in this book, but they also resemble their traditional bookmates. <br /> <br />This is a great coffee table book for teddy bear lovers. I have a bookshelf full of teddy bear books, and this one is a book I reach for again and again when I want to enjoy wonderful photographs of the bears of my dreams.	2004-08-29
US	39426313	R35P8H9AX15JZD	0914676652	843898593	My Circle of Bears (A Star & elephant book)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Charming Circle to Visit	\\"My Circle of Bears\\" is the author's tribute to the lives of her vintage bears. Most, if not all of these bears, came to Clise after their earlier lives with their original owners. Clise celebrates them with short descriptive essays, personifying each bear with its likes and dislikes. Most of the accompanying photographs are black and white, although there are a few color photos. Ophelia, who is the star of other Clise books, is one of the bears profiled in this book.  <br /> <br />I have owned my copy of \\"My Circle of Bears\\" since my teen-age collector days in the early 1980's. It has survived college and numerous moves in my adult life, and I am still enchanted by the sweet and sentimental trip in this book. In these days of busyness and stress it is a delight to visit bears who dress in Edwardian underwear and lace, wear French pastry cones, and have passions for things like piano, heart ornaments, their delusions of grandeur, and each other.	2004-08-29
US	39426313	R3ECL9W1JFQTKK	1401902839	764153438	The Power of Intention Cards	Books	5	76	77	N	N	Cards for Enlightenment	I have been a long term fan of cards for enlightenment and personal growth. As with most cards of this type, The Power of Intention Cards are an excellent tool for finding digestible bits of knowledge and insight. Dr. Wayne Dyer is a master of quotes, and these cards are filled with his efficient, uplifting words of wisdom. I have recently read his book by the same name, and found this pack of cards to be the perfect compliment for those who want to have a quick reference to his best advice for living a better life.  <br /> <br />One notable characteristic of this set of cards is that the graphics are small, old-fashioned, and male oriented. I don't know if this quality is a personal expression of Dr. Dyer's personality, but I found that it might be something male readers might find more appealing then the many cards with more artsy, feminine images. Although this is the most male set of cards I've ever seen, it was certainly an acceptable characteristic to me as a woman since they came from a male author. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a great set of cards for those who want to spend more time thinking about the concepts that Dr. Dyer teaches in The Power of Intention, but don't have the time or desire to reread the whole book every week. The cards are an attractive way to choose a quote or two to post for easy viewing as you retrain your mind to think more positively. I know the book and these cards have made me feel better about my life, and hey, \\"I want to feel good!\\" (Dr. Dyer quote). <br />	2004-08-18
US	39426313	R2R0XX1RIJK0U	0823416690	207522990	Apples	Books	5	34	34	N	N	My Favorite Apple Pick for Children	I purchased this book last fall for our kindergarten \\"apple and pumpkin\\" theme of learning. The short text and big, colorful pictures make this an excellent choice for 4 to 8 year olds. Yet, I was surprised by how much I learned from this book! This non-fiction text covers the growth of the apple tree and it's fruit with plenty of labels and a simple definition for each new word.  <br /> <br />A brief history of apple trees in America is explained, but I found the labels and the sequencing from flower bud to fruit to be the most educational part for myself and my 5 year old students. The information about how a flower bud becomes a fruit also applies to pumpkin growth, which became a handy opportunity to reinforce the new knowledge. <br /> <br />In addition to the short history lesson and the description of apple growth, the book includes illustrations of different apple varieties, the fall activities of caramel apples and apple bobbing, and some general information about the apple tree. Overall, this book rates 5 stars and an A+ with this teacher.	2004-08-08
US	39426313	R274DD1T8F48AI	0873586883	624962314	Gift For Abuelita / Un regalo para Abuelita: Celebrating the Day of the Dead/En celebracion del Dia de los Muertos (English, Multilingual and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautiful, Sensitive Text and Illustrations	I purchased this book because of the outstanding, noteworthy illustrations and fell in love with the sensitivity of the text. I live in a community where the Day of the Dead is celebrated locally. I own several fiction and non-fiction books on the topic, which I use in my primary grade classroom. While other non-fiction children's books on the Day of the Dead do a better job of explaining what happens during this celebration, this is the only book I have found that explains on an emotional level why one would want to celebrate one's dead relatives. <br /> <br />Although the relationship between Rosalita and her grandmother is established too quickly to cause the reader any distress when she dies on the third page of the text, Rosalita's dilemma is made clear. She works through the process of remembering and grieving her \\"abuelita\\" (grandmother). She thinks about what she can place on the family altar to symbolize her relationship with her deceased grandmother. She wonders what it will feel like when her grandmother's spirit returns on the Day of the Dead. How she resolves these questions will beautifully explain to anyone outside of the culture why those who celebrate this holiday take the time to remember.	2004-08-08
US	39426313	R1FEF4P8DI23YS	014055968X	71769109	Pumpkin Patch (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Patch of Pleasure	I purchased The Pumpkin Patch a number of years ago and it is still one of my favorite fall books. The text is direct, going through the stages of pumpkin growth; from seed to harvest, for sale at the Pumpkin Patch, and carving into a jack o'lantern. The large, colorful photographs are a clear asset to the instructional value of the text. I now use this book every fall with primary (K through 3rd grade) students as we learn about pumpkins in the days before our own Pumpkin Patch field trip. It allows us to talk about sequencing (what happens first, next, etc.), how fruits grow from flowers, and the different varieties of pumpkins. The Pumpkin Patch is very educational for children (and adults!) old enough to understand the text and how the sequence of photographs relate to each other.	2004-08-05
US	39426313	R374XHF3G3SX8F	0761317813	608514128	Things To Make For Your Doll (Girl Crafts)	Books	3	19	20	N	Y	Very Simple Book at a Child's Level	This is an interesting book of projects that children can make for their doll. It is a great asset to this book that most of the projects require very few skills that a child over 6 doesn't possess. Most of the materials needed for the projects are also readily available in most homes and communities. Some of the 20 project titles include: Doll Sock Puppet, Box Doll Closet, Mittens and Ear Warmers, Doll Treats, and a Fairy Crown.<br />Even though it is an asset to the book in general that the crafts are simple to create and use basic household materials, it also leads to an uninteresting text. Older children may want to try more sophisticated crafts that have better results, such as those crafts found in the American Girl craft book series.<br />The most appalling craft in this book is the Un-Stuffed Animal Costume. The author urges crafters to open the back seam of a non-jointed stuffed animal the same size as the doll, take out the stuffing, and turn it into an animal costume. Although I have seen a photograph of a doll wearing an un-stuffed animal costume and it has cute results, it is not a craft that I could imagine myself doing as a child, or even now. Most children sensitive enough to want to make things for their doll will also be too sensitive to tear open a new or an old stuffed animal.<br />Overall, it is a good weekend craft book for children ages 6 to 9 who would like to make something easy for their dolls. The crafts will allow them independance and success, but will also produce something they won't keep forever.	2004-04-11
US	39426313	R2SX586E1CD6QE	0942620690	559449979	Fashions for Small Dolls (Creative Crafters)	Books	5	103	103	N	Y	Beautiful Doll Clothes by a Master	Rosemarie Ionker's beautiful doll clothes are famous for details like smocking and embroidery. Her designs have been sold through &quot;Boneka/Petite Creations&quot; and have been featured on high quality collector dolls. I have long considered these clothes the finest the doll world has to offer, so I was thrilled to find her latest book of patterns tailored for small dolls.<br />This book has patterns for dolls that are 7, 8, 9, 10, and 12 inches tall. Almost half of the book is filled with pages and pages of patterns, drawn simply and clearly labeled for each size doll and by the pattern piece. There are also many pages of stunning photographs showing off Ionker's completed creations. The text is high quality and to the point. She offers tips for pattern adjustments as well general sewing tips, information on fabrics and embellishments, and, of course, directions on how to use/assemble the patterns.<br />The patterns in this book are for dolls representing children, and not adult proportioned fashion dolls. There are pattern pieces to clothe both boy and girl dolls. The dolls shown in this book range from Ginny, to Wendy Lawton's 9 inch dolls, to small porcelain, vinyl and wood dolls. Ionker will let you know how to clothe them all, with photographs documenting the differences and directions on how to find the right fit.<br />I would recommend this book for those seamstresses who have had at least some experience sewing. Sewing for small dolls requires some special tricks and a lot of patience! Ionker's work, though, can inspire and direct those advanced beginners to making more detailed clothing for small dolls.	2003-12-22
US	39426313	RGOWBUT3O1KA2	1883211379	260654258	Dolls: And Why We Love Them	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful Little Book	The title and cover illustration of &quot;Dolls and Why We Love Them&quot; compelled me to pick it up. I then could not put it down because the illustrations so beautifully portray why I love dolls. Vintage paintings of children and their dolls fill the pages of this short book with nostalgia and idealistic images of children caring for their beloved companions. <br />The text rises to the stories told by the paintings with short prose and poetry sections based on different themes introduced throughout the book. The text is not a deep or lengthy look at why we love dolls, but the sentimentality well reflects the emotional tone of why we love dolls. This quick read is a treasure that will be picked up again and again by those doll collectors who love their dolls.	2003-11-03
US	39426313	R1YGOF20A0C7QS	0064433730	905355446	Winter Days in the Big Woods (My First Little House Books)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An Old Fashioned Winter	\\"Winter Days\\" is one of my favorite books in the \\"My First Little House Books\\" series, and one of my favorite books about autumn. The Ingalls family prepares for winter with time for the harvest and food storage. Mary and Laura participate in daily chores and entertain themselves with their rag dolls, paper dolls,and by using a thimble to draw on the frosted window. Beautiful illustrations bring Laura's log cabin world to life, and are an excellent starting point for discussing how life is different then it used to be, and how some things never change.	2003-10-06
US	39426313	R2E9QF9JL6KZCT	1561384976	41324073	A Century of Dolls: Treasures from the Golden Age of Doll Making (Courage Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Photographs	I have owned this book for several years and still consider it a photographic treasure of antique dolls. With its golden cover of a blonde, antique doll, it has been a regular part of my Christmas decor since I purchased it. Each pair of pages has a charmingly set up photograph on one side, and a few paragraphs written about the doll on the other side. Some of the information is personal and some of it is about the type of doll shown, but it is all briefly written. It is a nice introduction for the beginner, but the experienced collector will find no new information. Buy this book for the wonderful photographs of a wide variety of antique dolls in well thought out displays because it is a photographic documentation, but don't buy it for the written information because there is little.	2003-09-14
US	39426313	R1DK9Q2YIR1A2P	0971461252	687832253	The Doll of Lilac Valley	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Lost and Found	Laurie lives in the city with her mother, a single parent. She is sent away to the country for the summer as a \\"fresh air\\" child. She brings Kathleen, her special doll twin, with her on the bus as they travel to a family she does not know. Through a twist of fate, Laurie arrives at the country house of Hattie and Henry without her beloved companion. Although she doesn't abandon hope of finding Kathleen, Laurie looks for another doll at the auction of a local doll collector's possessions. The child's pocket change is no match for the money of serious adult collectors, but she does manage to find a hidden treasure.<br />This book was originally published in 1958, and will appeal to adult doll book collectors. When Hattie gave Laurie a small, doll sized cast iron stove to play with, I had to have one! Such old-fashioned touches will charm the nostalgic reader, but the text is also sound enough for today's 9 to 12 year old readers. References to \\"Jumeau\\", \\"wax doll\\", \\"penny wooden\\" and \\"Queen Anne\\" provide a great opportunity for experienced doll collectors to share information about doll types and doll history with younger doll collectors, who may have only known about plastic, vinyl, and porcelain dolls. I have read this book several times, and still find it enjoyable.	2003-08-03
US	39426313	R3MQMTY29LF8PZ	0590412183	340624220	Henriette: The Story of a Doll	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Quick Adventure	Henriette is a 14 inch porcelain doll from France. Her original owner has now become the older grandmother of an orphaned granddaughter she cannot care for. Henriette is determined to make it to the child's orphanage in post Civil War Georgia and she hops a plantation wagon on its way to the city. This 63 page book has short chapters and the story moves quickly. It is a decently written adventure for 6 to 9 year olds.	2003-08-03
US	39426313	R2HQVUBQ2K48DN	0486279456	400213782	Little Pilgrim Girl Paper Doll (Dover Little Activity Books Paper Dolls)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	New Images	This Dover Little Activity Book features a girl paper doll named \\"Patience\\". Patience herself is on the back cover,on card weight paper. She comes with 8 outfits on glossy paper, and only one of them is the outfit we think about when we imagine a pilgrim girl. The rest of the outfits are appropriately conservative for the time period and culture. The outfits reflect different activities a pilgrim girl might participate in, and include headcoverings and accessories.<br />I found seeing the range of pilgrim attire to be an interesting, eye-opening experience. This is a great little book for children or adults learning about pilgrim clothing options. I hope to use it as a starting point for future Thanksgiving sewing projects; creating a pilgrim girl outfit that moves beyond the stereotype.	2003-07-22
US	39426313	R2C60R97LW8N9W	1878208802	458640646	The Mexican Dollhouse (The Dandy Dollhouse Stories, 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Valuable Lesson on Acceptance	\\"The Dandy Dollhouse Stories: The Mexican Dollhouse\\" is one of the few books written about Mexican/Spanish style dollhouses. This story is inspired by the actual dollhouse that the author had built for her daughter while they were living in Mexico in the early 1950's. However, the story is more about accepting people from other cultures then about the dollhouse. Not surprisingly, the story is set in the mid-1950's, as Nancy has recently recovered from a chilhood bout of polio. Nancy's dollhouse and its dollhouse family, the Dandys, helped get her through a difficult time of recovery. In this third book in The Dandy Dollhouse series, the focus is on a new girl and the problems she must overcome.<br />The new girl at Nancy and Katie's school is from Mexico. Her name is \\"Rosalinda Chavez\\", she dresses in traditional Mexican clothes and is still learning English. Nancy knows what it is like to be teased because of her polio and the leg brace she had to wear, so she and her friend, Katie, offer their friendship to Rosalinda.In a world of prejudice and racial suspicion, the girls find that they have something in common with Rosalinda. She has a wonderful dollhouse! The reader learns something about Mexican families through the \\"living\\" dollhouse family in the Mexican dollhouse.<br />The most valuable lesson this book teaches, though, is the lesson of friendship. Friendship is not always easy, but that doesn't mean that one should not reach out to others who may be different. In this multi-cultural world, it may be less rare to see diversity, but reading this book may gently bring up the topic of prejudice and stereotypes. It offers a role model of three girls and their dollhouse families who do the right thing when it isn't the popular thing to do.	2003-07-06
US	39426313	RB3AY7ISU7I2A	0806922656	103429583	Two-Hour Dolls' Clothes (Two-hour Crafts)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Creative Inspiration	&quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot; is a colorful and unconventional look at sewing for dolls. In this book, there is more emphasis on creative fabric choices then highly skilled or detailed sewing. As an &quot;advanced beginner&quot; seamstress, I found this book to be very liberating. The photographs and watercolors are delicious to look at, and this has changed my view of sewing into one that includes enjoyment with fabrics and style instead of frustration for a lack of perfection in my sewing skills. <br />However, from a practical level, the patterns are unclear. Patterns for different sized dolls are set inside of the larger patterns for the same piece, and they are colored in with watercolor designs, suggesting fabric. I would recommend &quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot; for those who enjoy photos and watercolors of dolls and their clothes as well as the creative use of color and fabric. It may open your mind to new visions of what doll clothes can be.<br />For those who would like a more straightforward book with clear patterns of basic pieces in a variety of sizes, I would recommend &quot;The Dolls' Dressmaker&quot; by Venus Dodge in addition to &quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot;. &quot;The Dolls' Dressmaker&quot; takes a more traditional instructional approach to doll clothes construction. With both books, one is sure to create skilled and creative clothing for dolls.	2003-04-05
US	39426313	R23HNDZAFC519T	0380708655	283141286	The Doll in the Garden	Books	4	29	35	N	N	On Healing the Past and the Present	I purchased this book out of my personal interest as an adult doll/doll book collector, a collector of children's books, and an elementary teacher. I found this chapter book for middle grade (4th-8th grades)students to hold a solid story that kept me reading until the end. I would definitely recommend it to age appropriate readers who are interested in dolls, fantasy, mystery, or those who are recovering from a death in the family (but not too recently).<br />In this book, Ashley and her mother move to a house in the suburbs to begin a new life after the death of Ashley's father. The house they move to is a portion of a larger house owned by a cranky older lady (Miss Cooper) who constantly threatens to throw them out. Miss Cooper is particularly after Ashley, who wanders off to explore the garden around the house. During one of her explorations, Ashley and a younger neighbor discover a buried antique doll and Miss Cooper's buried source of regret. Ashley challenges Miss Cooper's crankiness in order to return the doll to its orginal owner and learns about making peace with people who have died.<br />I enjoyed this story for the fantasy element. Well written characters drew me into the story, and didn't make the fantasy seem too unrealistic. I also really liked the realistic discussion of feelings that occur when someone you love/are close to dies. This multilayered gem is worth the purchase price for interested readers.	2003-04-05
US	39426313	RGI9OCRGF2QT3	0806922656	103429583	Two-Hour Dolls' Clothes (Two-hour Crafts)	Books	4	39	39	N	Y	Creative Inspiration	&quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot; is a colorful and unconventional look at sewing for dolls. In this book, there is more emphasis on creative fabric choices then highly skilled or detailed sewing. As an &quot;advanced beginner&quot; seamstress, I found this book to be very liberating. The photographs and watercolors are delicious to look at, and this has changed my view of sewing into one that includes enjoyment with fabrics and style instead of frustration for a lack of perfection in my sewing skills.<br />However, from a practical level, the patterns are unclear. Patterns for different sized dolls are set inside of the larger patterns for the same piece, and they are colored in with watercolor designs, suggesting fabric. I would recommend &quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot; for those who enjoy photos and watercolors of dolls and their clothes as well as the creative use of color and fabric. It may open your mind to new visions of what doll clothes can be.<br />For those who would like a more straightforward book with clear patterns of basic pieces in a variety of sizes, I would recommend &quot;The Dolls' Dressmaker&quot; by Venus Dodge in addition to &quot;Two Hour Dolls' Clothes&quot;. &quot;The Dolls' Dressmaker&quot; takes a more traditional instructional approach to doll clothes construction. With both books, one is sure to create skilled and creative clothing for dolls.	2003-04-05
US	39426313	R1Q5PTR3LX9DIQ	158485698X	507581849	Thanks to Josefina (American Girls Short Stories)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thank You, Josefina!	This is the fifth short story published about the American Girl, Josefina. The setting of this book is around the time period of \\"Josefina Learns a Lesson\\". Josefina's family has just experienced a terrible financial loss where a sudden flood killed many of the rancho's sheep. Tia Dolores and the girls have decided to recover the loss by weaving stored wool into wool blankets for trade to build up new a flock.<br />Josefina eagerly wants to please her Aunt with the new weaving business, but her sisters quickly turn on her for the hard work they now have to do \\"Thanks to Josefina\\". Teresita, Tia Dolores servant who teaches Josefina to weave, takes the discouraged Josefina on a walk to look for plants for dyes and gently helps her understand how many colors can contribute to each rug they weave. Soon, her sisters find something that they can genuinely thank Josefina for as they learn to work together more peacefully!<br />I enjoyed this short story because it integrated Josefina's skill and knowledge of plants, which was introduced in \\"Happy Birthday, Josefina\\". \\"Thanks to Josefina\\" identifies several regional plants for dyes, and includes a project where readers can make their own dye from an onion to tie-dye a t-shirt.	2003-03-23
US	39426313	RFLSH7M21D6KE	0670035017	866579989	Bunny Party (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	We Love Max!	Max and Ruby are my new favorite book characters in books for younger children. My kindergarten students love the short text, colorful illustrations, and of course, mischievous little Max. After reading the Easter book \\"Max's Chocolate Chicken\\" all Fall and Winter, I'm finally getting them some more Max books! <br />In \\"Bunny Party\\", Max's older sister Ruby, throws a party for their Grandma. Ruby's guest list includes her \\"Rapunzel\\", \\"Mr. and Mrs. Quack\\" and the \\"Tooth Fairy\\", but leaves no room for Max's favorite toys. Sneaky Max finds his own way to crash the party with his \\"Jellyball Shooter Spider\\" and several other guests. <br />I love Ruby because she is such a girl in the toys that she owns and in the type of party that she plans for Grandma. I love Max because he is such a boy in the toys that he owns and in the way he wants to be included in his older sister's party plans. And I love Rosemary Wells for creating characters that children will want to see to over and over again in stories that adults can also appreciate and enjoy.	2003-02-08
US	39426313	RUQ1NTIW95BUK	1575130688	703306416	Viva Heather (Magic Attic Club)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Hanging Onto Faith	\\"Viva, Heather\\" is a book that entertains while it educates about the Jewish faith. The reader is quickly drawn in by Heather's realistic feelings about her family and her faith. At the beginning of the book, Heather is embarrased by the visible signs of her faith as her family celebrates the Passover. All she can think about is the matzoh (unleavened bread/cracker) her peanut butter and jelly sandwich will be on for her school lunch. Heather is then morified when her grandmother invites her friends to the seder, and hopes that they won't accept. How will they understand the long stories and strange food? <br />Through the magic of the mirror, Heather dons a gypsy outfit and is transported to the Alhambra castle in Spain. She quickly finds herself on the run and hiding her Jewish faith. She, and other Jewish people, must escape Spain or face death because King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella want Spain to be unified in one Catholic faith. Faced with such an intense experience where she had to deny her faith while hanging onto it, Heather learns that there are plenty of reasons to be proud of who she is and where her family has come from. Sharing the seder with her friends becomes something more meaningful to her.<br />\\"Viva, Heather!\\" is my favorite book in the Magic Attic Club series because it tells the story of early persecution of the Jewish people in Spain at the beginning of the Inquisition. Based on information from a person who has interviewed the author, it is also the author's favorite book in the series because it is a part of her own family history. She has made this book something that children can relate to by adding the identifiable character of Christopher Columbus, which will anchor children to the place and time period. The author's expression of Judiasm and Heather's experience of it is something that children will also be able to identify with and find a positive feeling about. By the end of the story, Heather understands herself and her family traditions a lot better, and she gives the reader something valuable to ponder.	2003-02-04
US	39426313	R10QSR2QGCNIU0	043940178X	62477574	Doll Hospital #01: Tatiana Comes To America: An Ellis Island Story	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Finding a New Home	When Rose and Lila's parents go to Africa for a year, for their work as doctors, Rose(age 10) and Lila(age 8) must stay with their maternal grandmother, whom they hardly know. As they snoop through her house (Book 1), they soon discover that \\"Far Nana\\" has a few secrets worth knowing. \\"Far Nana\\" runs a doll hospital from her home and has the intuitive skill of listening to the stories of the dolls she repairs. She tells these stories to the girls in the first person, from the point of view of the doll. In these books, the reader is reading the ongoing story of Rose and Lila adjustments to living with their grandmother and the historical story of a doll, in a story-within-a-story format.<br />In \\"Tatiana Comes to America\\" the girls listen to a story about a doll who escaped Russia in 1907 during a time of violence against the Jewish people. Her family came to America to escape the persecution. Tatiana boards a ship for America with her girl, Anya. I enjoyed Tatiana's story because it was lively and and had some unexpected surprises by the end. <br />Overall, this book is an excellent introduction to the series and I would recommend reading it first if you are interested in this series. We see Rose and Lila say good-bye to their parents and watch them discover their grandmother's secret. The girls begin to find that there will be some good things about staying with \\"Far Nana\\", including the wonderful stories of the dolls!<br />The reading level on this book is for grade 3. I would not recommend it for readers under 6 years of age because the intertwining stories may be confusing. A paper doll is included with each book, which may be of interest to some readers.	2003-02-03
US	39426313	R2N8V2N52DRMOP	0060242639	964550904	Doll Face Has a Party!	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Party For One	\\"Doll Face\\" is an ususual story, even for those of us who collect or frequently read books about dolls. The main character, a doll with pink hair, wants to throw a party and spends the story rounding up her party guests. Each \\"guest\\" is an item(like the plate, silverware, chair, balloon, and a piano) that has something to contribute to the party. I would have liked to have seen other dolls invited to the party because it ends up looking like a party for one, which was a disappointment. However, young Barbie fans who understand the dancing teapots and candlesticks in \\"Beauty and the Beast\\" will enjoy this story. When I previewed the book without reading the text, I found the illustrations were inviting enough to make me curious enough to read the story. The illustrations are brightly colored eye candy that lend to the party theme in the book, which make this book worth adding to my collection.	2003-01-18
US	39426313	R337G0FK161WU4	0439401801	219725724	Doll Hospital #03: Glory's Freedom: A Story Of The Underground Railroad	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Story That Must Be Told	When Rose and Lila's parents go to Africa for a year, for their work as doctors, Rose(age 10) and Lila(age 8) must stay with their maternal grandmother,whom they hardly know. As they snoop through her house (Book 1), they soon discover that \\"Far Nana\\" has a few secrets worth knowing. \\"Far Nana\\" runs a doll hospital from her home and has the intuitive skill of listening to the stories of the dolls she repairs. She tells these stories to the girls in the first person, from the point of view of the doll. In these books, the reader is reading the ongoing story of Rose and Lila's adjustments to living with their grandmother and the historical story of a doll, in a story-within-a-story format.<br />In \\"Glory's Freedom\\" the girls hear the story of a wax doll, owned by a girl on a Southern plantation, who escapes the heat of the coming summer in the arms of girl running away from slavery. I found Glory's story to be a captivating lesson in history, slavery, and friendship told with characters that children will relate to.<br />In Lila and Rose's story, they learn about auctions by attending a doll auction with their grandmother. They take this experiential knowledge of auctions and quickly relate it to the slave auctions they hear about in Glory's story. The girls' become further interested in Glory's story and have a chance to talk to her current owner about the unusual way Glory was found and they find a story that must be told. <br />The reading level for this book is for grade 3. I would not recommend this series for readers younger then 6 years of age because the intertwining stories may be confusing. A paper doll is included in each book, which may be of added interest to some readers.	2003-01-14
US	39426313	R39HZ60SRK8SV	0439401798	886894173	Doll Hospital #02: Goldie's Fortune : A Story Of The Great Depression	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Two Stories for One	When Rose and Lila's parents go to Africa for a year, for their work as doctors, Rose (age 10) and Lila (age 8) must stay with their maternal grandmother, whom they hardly know. As they snoop through her house one night (Book 1), they soon discover that \\"Far Nana\\" has a few secrets worth knowing. \\"Far Nana\\" runs a doll hospital from her home and has the intuitive skill of listening to the stories of the dolls she repairs. She tells these stories to the girls in the first person, from the point of view of the doll. In these books, the reader is reading the ongoing story of Rose and Lila's adjustments to living with their grandmother and the historical story of a doll, in a story-within-a-story format.<br />In \\"Goldie's Fortune\\" they listen to the story of Goldie, a Depression era doll who has come to be repaired. While hearing the story of financial troubles during the Depression, the girls worry if Far Nana has enough money to buy them school supplies. They learn about another girl's brave sacrifice to help her family during the Depression, and try to think about how to bring up the subject of money with Far Nana.<br />Overall, I liked the story of Lila and Rose and I liked Goldie's story. The discomfort Rose and Lila felt in discussing money and their needs with their grandmother is one that many children may relate to within their own families. <br />In Goldie's story, there were some elements of suspended belief in this particular book that felt too unreal to be comfortable for me. At that point, it took some time to resell me on the rest of the book, but I was involved with the story once again before it ended. It was a good story about the changes that happened to many families during the depression and how a child might have felt about those changes.<br />The reading level on this book is for grade 3. I would not recommend it for readers under 6 years of age because the intertwining stories may be confusing. A paper doll is included with each book, which may be of interest to some readers.	2003-01-14
US	39426313	R1RYMZJLWWI25A	158542157X	233656454	Living Your Best Life	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	Wisdom Speaks	\\"Living Your Best Life\\" is a practical guide on discovering what you want while presenting the skills it will take to get it. The foundation of the book is the belief that each person has their own innate wisdom that can be used as a resource. Once you have tapped into that resource, a change in attitute and perspective can help you create the life your wise self desires.<br />I purchased this book as an informational companion to my role as a coaching client. As someone in the midst of many personal and professional decisions, I found the client success examples illustrating each idea to be energizing and inspiring. Fortgang's perspective is a breath of fresh air in a world that tells you to push for your goals. Fortgang supports allowing your innate wisdom to pull you toward your passion and purpose.<br />\\"Living Your Best Life\\" is not about making lists, or even making plans. It is about knowing what you really want in life, instead of what you think you can have. It is about being who you are so you can do what you are meant to do in order to live your best life.	2002-12-01
US	39426313	R3LCI2D13SM76W	1584854332	59238610	Changes For Kaya (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Kaya's Wisdom	In \\"Changes for Kaya\\"(Book 6 in the series), readers see how Kaya has changed since the first book, \\"Meet Kaya\\". She is a courageous girl who has also learned to trust the wisdom of her elders and not rush impulsively into doing things for herself. She is learning to be patient and understand when it is time to get adult or tribal help. Her developing wisdom is rewarded when she has the opportunity to be reunited with her beloved lost horse and a new surprise-her foal! Earlier losses become gifts that bring her to a stronger sense of herself and her place in the tribe. She comes to the awareness that she is growing up and will soon be ready for her vision quest. With the lessons she has learned, she knows that she can face it with the patience and confidence of a leader.	2002-09-09
US	39426313	R1CP7Z4KRJSNG7	1584854316	59238610	Kaya Shows The Way (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Tale of Two Sisters	In \\"Kaya Shows the Way\\" (Book 5 in the series), Kaya's tribe gathers with other tribes around the river for salmon season. Kaya is reunited with her sister, Speaking Rain, who had been separated from the tribe. Speaking Rain has made a promise that her strong spirit has vowed to keep, but it means some hard choices for her and for Kaya. It may mean that Kaya loses her dear sister for good. Meanwhile, Kaya's older sister is preparing for marriage. The Aunt of the young man that she wants to marry has come to watch her work during the fishing season, to determine if she will make a good wife. Will Kaya lose both sisters to their vows or is there a way to remain a family?	2002-09-09
US	39426313	R2MCAFMR3AZFHP	1584854278	59238610	Kaya's Hero (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Power of Names	In \\"Kaya's Hero\\" (Book 3 in the series), Kaya is still struggling with an old nickname and the lesson she is learning with it. Kaya knows how the name given to her by the other children reflects qualities that she has, but wishes she didn't have! Then, she finds herself admiring a young woman who had married into her tribe. Swan Circling is a courageous warrior woman and Kaya wants to be her friend and learn from her. Swan Circling sees in her many admirable qualities she willing points out to Kaya, but Kaya remains embarrased by her past mistakes. She feels the compliments could not be true, and is ashamed to tell Swan Circling about how she got the dreaded nickname and how she got herself and her sister captured by the neighboring tribe. Then, Swan Circling finds a way to leave Kaya with a new name that she can live up to and grow into.	2002-09-08
US	39426313	R16MQOXRVLKQW6	1584854251	59238610	Kaya's Escape (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Captured!	In \\"Kaya's Escape\\" (Book 2 in the series), Kaya's tribe is raided by a neighboring tribe while the men are away from the camp. Kaya is told to lead her blind sister, Speaking Rain, to a hiding place in the forest. When Kaya sees the raiders approaching the horses, she becomes more interested in saving her own beloved horse then in finding safety for herself and Speaking Rain. Then, Kaya and Speaking Rain are taken captive, to be slaves. The raiding tribe also steals their herd of horses as well. They are all taken many days away from their home camp. Kaya has to find the courage and strength to make many difficult decisions in order to insure her future.<br />This book is filled with action and adventure, but it could also be difficult to follow. During her journey, there are many changes in setting and actions that are described too quickly or unclearly. The ending is not resolved as neatly as it is in many children's books, but this book provides valuable information for understanding the later books in the series. I got through the book rereading sentences as necessary, but enjoyed the story overall. I liked that the difficulties and dangers of other tribes were presented. This book is also a key book in understanding how Kaya develops the character traits that lead her to more maturity and better choices in the future.	2002-09-08
US	39426313	R3RNPZVR4280FT	1584855118	979906303	Kaya: An American Girl : 1764 / Box Set	Books	5	73	78	N	N	Exciting New Series!	Pleasant Company has broken the mold of the format they have always used for their traditional American Girl stories in order to bring their readers a Native American character with courage, pride, and cultural integrity. You will not find school lessons, birthday parties, or Christmas celebrations in this series because they are all a product of European culture. What you will find in this series are stories that are full of fresh ideas for both the American Girl series and other similiar historic fiction for this age group.<br />The characters and the setting vividly draw you into the 1764 world of the Nez Perce. All of the stories are fast paced with interesting and original plots and characters. Because of the low predictability of the plot and the unfamiliarity of the setting, I would highly recommend these books for readers over age 8, and not younger. The first few books are particularly difficult to read. As an adult reader, I periodically had to reread a sentence or two to pick up on why or how something a few sentences later had occured. I found that Books 3-6 did get easier to read then the the first two books were, but this is still not a series for young children.<br />What I liked the most about the Kaya series was watching the development of her character. She makes poor choices in the first book because she does what is right for herself instead of looking after others. As the series progresses, you see Kaya learn from her mistakes and develop her own character from one who is immature to one who possesses many admirable qualities. She deals with many losses and changes with courage and by the last book, she is greatly rewarded for it. She learns to be more patient, to listen to the wisdom of her elders, and to make better choices for herself that include looking after others. These are all important messages for today's youth that I have not seen often in children's books. Kaya is a likable character in an interesting world and it is a pleasure to see her grow into her potential.	2002-09-08
US	39426313	R1L3VJC8U9NO8K	1584854294	827255340	Kaya And Lone Dog (American Girl (Quality)) (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Friendship and Comfort	In \\"Kaya and the Lone Dog\\"(Book 4 in the series), Kaya remembers many things about the time she was taken captive and empathizes with a lone dog. She remembers how she was hungry and got only scraps as a slave girl, so she makes a promise to the dog to feed her. Although her grandmother fears that the dog may be a dangerous half-wolf, Kaya earns the dog's trust with her respect and kindness. Others in the tribe also grow to trust the dog after she saves one of her younger brothers from a bear, and the dog and her weaned puppies are welcomed into the tribe. Kaya senses though, that the dog wants to remain a lone dog and fears she will not stay with the group. Because Kaya also knows the feeling of being held captive, she values freedom and faces loss. In her loss, though, she receives a gift from the lone dog.	2002-09-08
US	39426313	R150U68LTJVY5B	1584854235	59238610	Meet Kaya, Book 1	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Kaya's Lesson	In \\"Meet Kaya\\", Kaya, a 9 year old Nez Perce girl, learns an important lesson that carries through in later books. She learns that in her tribal world, individuals cannot look after themselves first. The needs of others must always be taken into consideration. When she accepts the challenge of a boy to take off in a horse race, she also runs away from her responsibility in caring for her younger twin brothers and ignores her father's command to not race her horse.When she is punished with a whipping, all of the children in the tribe are also whipped to teach that the actions of one affect the lives of many. When the other children tease her repeatedly with an unkind name related to the incident, it stings worse then the whip and is a constant reminder to her of her mistake. In the end, it serves to also remind her to strive for better qualities in herself.<br />I liked that this book was different from the other books in the American Girl series and other similiar books that I have read. It presents a world that many people may not be familiar with. However, writing that moves too quickly over the unfamiliar setting and lifestyle makes this book difficult to read in places. As an adult, I found myself rereading places that I'd missed. I would not recommend this series for those younger then 8, but having read all of the books, the later books are not as difficult to read as the first two.<br />The lesson portrayed in this book is one of responsibility, wisdom, and the consequences of poor choices. This book conveys that adults know best for a reason and that it is a good thing to be aware of the needs of others and care for them. Although her punishment for her choice may seem harsh or cruel to modern readers, we see how Kaya learns from it. The reading issue makes this book a bumpy start to the series, but I found this book and the rest of the series to be worth the time I spent reading it.	2002-09-08
US	39426313	R129DPNA57HAYY	1584856173	388093225	Angelina and the Rag Doll (Angelina Ballerina)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Cute Book, Nice Lesson	Angelina is given the opportunity to donate things that she has outgrown to a charity box for second hand items. She includes Polka, her rag doll from her early years as a ballerina, as one of the toys she feels that she has outgrown. When Grandpa comes for a visit, he reminds Angelina of the fond memories that she had with Polka, and she desparately wants the doll back. Is it too late to find the doll again? Angelina learns that growing up is not always easy, but charity has grown up feelings to replace the things you give away.	2002-07-28
US	39426313	RGKPL58VGE0BI	1558589600	752960686	Ragged Bear (North-South Paperback)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Beautiful Illustrations!	The text in Ragged Bear is short and simple. It is about an old bear who is played with, but is not the favorite toy. Then, being left at the park one day gives him a new lease on life with someone who rightfully gives him the same kind of love that he had always given to others. This sweet story is accompanied by beautiful watercolor illustrations that bring out the most sensitive qualities of this book. The artwork alone is worth purchasing this book if you are a teddy bear lover who appreciates fine illustrations of teddy bears, but it is also an appropriate story for the youngest teddy bear lovers.	2002-07-28
US	39426313	R3F4XU8YB76GGY	1586630652	127388354	Pumpkins	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Delicious Year after Year	Around late August, I start craving something I don't even like the rest of the year. I start wanting Orange. Not the fruit, but the COLOR orange. I crave looking at the round, full orange texture of pumpkins. I have owned this book for several years, and every year I look forward to pulling it out with my other Autumn decorations. I set this book out with my other pumpkin books, but &quot;Pumpkins&quot; is definitely the main course! Pumpkins are photographed in a wide variety of settings, making each photograph fresh and interesting. I am even thinking about getting a second copy of this book to make framed pictures out of my favorite photographs. If you celebrate Autumn with a passion for pumpkins, this book is for you.	2002-07-08
US	39426313	R1DIM19H6491Y9	006440143X	959918548	...And Now Miguel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	REALISTIC, Historic Fiction for Readers with Patience	This Newberry Award winner is a classic that may best be appreciated by readers with patience for a slower lifestyle. This is not for action-adventure junkies waiting for a roller coaster ride of thrills and suspense. I enjoyed this book because I am familiar with the setting in Northern New Mexico around Taos, which is well described in the book. For hundreds of years ranch owners have sent their shepherds and sheep to the green grazing fields in the local mountains during the summer months. The desire to go to the mountains with the sheep would have been a common personal conflict with older children. As a work of realistic fiction, it portrays a real lifestyle with real dreams and conflicts in a time and place before our modern technology, noise, and adrenaline surges of a rushed, stressed based lifestyle. This book is for the sophisticated reader who is looking for a good story in a work of historical fiction.	2002-07-05
US	39426313	R1ESETOHJ29RIM	0940666812	732385557	Los Ojos Del Tejedor: The Eyes of the Weaver	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wonderful Weaving of Story , Culture, and Family History	\\"Los Ojos del Tejedor: The Eyes of the Weaver\\" is a wonderful regional story based on the author's youth. She is a descendent of the Ortega family of Chimayo. The Ortega family has been weaving in the small, rural community of Chimayo for more than eight generations and the quality of their rugs and blankets is well known. They own a store in Chimayo and in several other locations where their Hispanic style rugs and blankets are sold in many sizes. Chimayo is a mountain community north of Santa Fe best known for the Santuario de Chimayo, an old adobe church pilgrims flock to for its miracles of healing and tourists visit as a fine, historical example of New Mexico adobe churches.<br />This book beautifully describes Hispanic traditions and the importance of teaching the children these skills. Ten year old Cristina loves going to her grandparents' house, but she is particularly nervous about this trip. She knows that she is going to spend a week there to learn how to weave and is filled with anxiety over weaving as well as her grandfather, and she doesn't speak Spanish as well as she'd like. Her mother suggests that her cousin, who speaks better Spanish, should join her and their grandparents, and that makes Cristina feel more confident about her visit.<br />This delightful book moves beyond learning to weave on the loom. Cristina weaves in her own memories of Hispanic culture through other activities during this visit. Spanish words and phrases are sprinkled as regional seasoning, adding depth to the flavor of her story. A glossary of these words is found at the back to help non-Spanish speakers navigate their way through this book. Phrases are translated in the text of the book. In addition to stumbling with her grandfather's Spanish, she also picks regional vegetables from the garden and cooks traditional New Mexican foods, which also contributes to the fullness of the text.<br />The illustrations add a lot to the text. They are done in a \\"painterly\\" syle common among the works of the early Taos painters, supporting both the regional and historic feel of this book. The book does a beautiful and complete job of representing the New Mexico Hispanic culture and is a must for anyone who wants to learn more about this subject. But in addition to the social studies lesson, this book is about families and how they relate to one another. It is a personal story about a child's belonging to her family and rising up to their expectations with love and compassion.	2002-07-02
US	39426313	R5Y6ID7J78WHU	0963885103	619450235	The Old Hogan	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Quiet but Charming	&quot;The Old Hogan&quot; is a charming little story told from the point of view of the hogan, as she watches a more modern home being built for her family. She listens to the children as they joyfully chant about moving into a REAL HOUSE. What is a &quot;real&quot; house? She reflects on the life that has gone on inside of her. Will there still be a place for her when the family moves out? Although this book was first published in 1993, it has a much older feel to it. The illustrations are soft, simplistic images. The text is slow and sentimental, but not overly long. I love this book for its simplicity and the cultural significance of its use in teaching reading in Navajo schools. Visually, it may not be a book that a child would pick out on their own, but the cultural information is valuable and it is a nice book for a quiet moment of shared reading.	2002-06-30
US	39426313	RE22S6EDP2OT	1575052695	23151500	Colors of the Navajo (Colors of the World)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Rich Colors of the Navajo World!	As you would expect, \\"Colors of the Navajo\\" is full of rich, color illustrations. Each page focuses on one color, much like an ABC book for colors. The illustrations on each page are predominantly in the color being described. The text beautifully teaches about one aspect of the Navajo World through each color. For example, \\"Turquoise\\" is used to share information about the history of silversmithing and the creation of jewelry with turquoise stones. \\"Red\\" is used to share the beliefs about sacred red ants and the use of sandpaintings in healing ceremonies. Although it appears to be presented in a simple form, the rich color illustrations will hold a child's attention long enough to read or listen to the rich historical and cultural information being given.	2002-06-30
US	39426313	RSAV2ONHAGSDI	0941270521	139112869	Navajo Coyote Tales	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Traditional Tales	In many Native American groups, animals are personified in traditional tales, often playing consistant roles which reflect that animal's characteristics. Coyote is most often seen as a trickster who makes a fool of himself so that child listeners may learn the lesson. This book contains an introduction and six coyote tales. The illustrations are black pen and the stories retain an authentic tone. The text is perfect for second graders and would be a great series of school skits, with dialog and narration already in the text. Although this simple book does not use colored illustrations or a rewritten literary text, it does a great job of focusing on the cultural integrity of the stories and delivering them to an audience of 4-8 year olds.	2002-06-30
US	39426313	R3APBKYR94UGEN	0816723605	169887947	Turquoise Boy (Native American Legends)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Native American Legend	\\"Turquoise Boy: A Navajo Legend\\" is a part of the \\"Native American Legends\\" series. The presentation of the legend makes it accessible to readers while maintaining an accurate image of the Navajo culture. The illustrations use warm colors and geometric shapes and symbols common in the Navajo world. The text is a delightful retelling of a traditional Navajo legend. Turquoise Boy, the son of Sun Bearer and Changing Woman (Navajo spirits of creation), goes in search of a way to make the life of his people easier. He travels across the Navajo world and implores the Holy Ones, his father above (Sun Bearer-the sun), and Mirage Man below to help the People. Mirage Man shows Turquoise Boy a secret gift, and the People participate in a ceremony to bring the gift forth. <br />This book is a beautiful way to learn about the Navajo culture. The retelling of traditional legends are such an important part of preserving any culture, and this series has made us all participants in a wider American culture. I would recommend the whole series as well as the books from the \\"Legends of the World\\" series.	2002-06-30
US	39426313	R1V2OEWDFJJNMO	0918080762	249402788	Navajo Rugs and Blankets: A Coloring Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Well Done!	\\"Navajo Rugs and Blankets: A Coloring Book\\" is an excellent supplement to children's books about Navajo weaving. The first section in this book introduces the Navajo world and historical information about the significance of their woven rugs. All of these introductory pages have a few sentences of text with related pictures to color. The rest of the book is coloring pages of individual rug patterns, which were often named for the region of their origin. The pattern names are given with color suggestions. The pictures of the rugs are informative for anyone (adults included) who want to see rug patterns in their most basic forms. <br />What I like most about this book is that the pictures are not overly simplified as a preschooler's basic coloring book, but are also not overly detailed. This book is just right for elementary children of all ages and any middle schooler who may still like a good coloring book. I have owned several copies of this book and have shared pages with elementary students and it has always been a hit for those quiet moments in the day!	2002-06-28
US	39426313	R22PMZVCSQRNTQ	0822597128	667418091	Songs from the Loom: A Navajo Girl Learns to Weave (We Are Still Here) (We Are Still Here : Native Americans Today)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Author Brings Honor to his Subjects	\\"Songs from the Loom: A Navajo Girl Learns to Weave\\" is the BEST, most sensitive and comprehensive children's book on the subject. Photographer and writer, Monty Roessel, took a personal approach to creating this book when he chose his daughter and his mother as subjects. He documented his ten year old daughter, Jaclyn, as her grandmother taught her to weave. The fifth grader learned about the practical aspects of weaving; like shearing sheep, carding and spinning wool, natural dyes, and weaving techniques. Nali Ruth (Grandmother) also taught Jaclyn about important Navajo stories related to weaving and the significance of each tool. <br />This book has an informative, well written text and wonderful graphics. It has many photographs and informative diagrams. Small samples of different rug patterns appear in the margins every few pages, leading to a full page map of the regions associated with the patterns. The wooden Navajo loom is shown in a labeled drawing. The traditional stories of how weaving originated for the Navajo people are on separate pages from the rest of the text, bordered by a rug-type design. I would recommend this book for both adults and children over 8 as a delightful way to learn about this subject. He honors his mother, his daughter, and Navajo weaving with this book. <br />If you are buying this book for a child, \\"Navajo Rugs and Blankets: A Coloring Book\\" by Chuck and Andrea Mobley, with Sam Mike as illustrator, is a must have supplement. Children interested in \\"Songs From the Loom\\" will find themselves inspired to experience Navajo rugs and this coloring book is a great way to extend the story!	2002-06-27
US	39426313	R2PS4O89XTOBAV	0822526557	304930231	Kinaalda: A Navajo Girl Grows Up (We Are Still Here : Native Americans Today)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Talking About It	It is a topic that many use slang and euphemisms to describe,or avoid talking about at all. Mother's pass along factual books and try to bravely discuss it with their daughters, who approach it with mixed feelings. \\"It\\" has been called many things in American culture, but in Navajo culture, it is celebrated at a Kinaalda.<br />A young woman's Kinaalda is celebrated around the time of her first menstrual cycle. She celebrates the time when she is being shaped into a woman in a ceremony that lasts two to four days. Photographer and writer, Monty Roessel, allows us to be privledged viewers of 13 year old Celinda McKelvey's Kinaalda. During the ceremony, Celinda wears a traditional blanket dress, takes on the adult role of grinding corn to make a huge corn cake, is literally molded into a woman by the hands of others, and runs a race for blessings of health and longevity. It is a trial of endurance, as growing up often is. <br />This book presents a view of menstruation that can be difficult to convey to the newly initiated and to those who are still waiting. This book tells us that it is a time to celebrate. It is a time to acknowledge becoming a woman. Celinda is both honored and validated in her new status. She finds support and positive attention during her Kinaalda. Even though many young women outside of the Navajo culture may not want a ceremony for their special time, this book is an asset to own. It is a wonderful way to see this experience across cultural beliefs.	2002-06-27
US	39426313	R35UYCJAXGL5SJ	0826318053	314761875	Wide Ruins: Memories from a Navajo Trading Post	Books	5	10	10	N	N	BEST book on Navajo Traders	&quot;Wide Ruins&quot; is a wonderful reading experience on an interesting topic.  Sallie Wagner weaves a personal tale of her experiences as the trader at Wide Ruins, Arizona, in the 1940's.  Her story progresses quickly and she seems to provide enough detail of her experiences without lingering too long on any one topic. She vividly describes the role of the trading post and of the traders.  The trading post was a general store, a pawn shop, and a safety deposit box.  The traders were resourceful businessmen who could conduct business without any actual money trading hands. They were esteemed residents who helped the Navajo people survive a difficult time in America's history.<br />This memoir is a significant piece of literature because it was written by one who actually lived in a world that few non-Navajos ever get to see.  She decribes the Navajo people and the Navajo culture in a way that makes their time and place real.  It is not an academic study by a distant scholar of the culture.  It is a personal account of a world that no longer exists, and as such, it is a treasure.  I would also recommend &quot;Navajo Trader&quot; by Cladwell Richardson in addition to &quot;Wide Ruins&quot;.	2002-06-15
US	39426313	R1J6UU23GBP991	0896723631	663946410	Canyon of Remembering	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent Southwest Fiction	Frustrated Santa Fe artist, Whitney Slope, escapes the political games of the Santa Fe art world by heading into the mountain community of Mi Ojo (&quot;My Eye&quot;-a fictitious community representing the real communities that can be found around Santa Fe).  He finds his soul in the authentic, rural community and his story is woven with that of his new landlord, Dominga Garcia de Jesus. Slope is brought to a refreshingly honest new way of life as he becomes involved in the stories of other people outside of the affluent community in Santa Fe.<br />The characters in this book are deep and well developed. The plot carries the reader through a world that is realistic to the area. I especially enjoyed the descriptions of the Santa Fe art gallery community contrasted with the rural Hispanic communities in the mountains. The high quality of the writing and the storyline make this book a must read for anyone who is looking for an excellent work of Southwest fiction.	2002-06-15
US	39426313	R1J2YBZ0JIZXH4	1877856185	246478400	Hubbell Trading Post National Historic Site	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Small Side Table Book for Western Decor	From the 1880's to the 1940's, non-Navajo individuals entered a world seldom seen by outsiders and became esteemed residents on the Navajo reservation.  They were the Navajo traders, and they played a significant role in Navajo life during this time period.  They ran the general store and pawn shop.  They pushed for higher levels of craftmanship in Navajo arts and crafts and then marketed those products to the rest of the United States.  The trading post was a central meeting place and a communication center, and the traders were the social service providers.<br />Lorenzo Hubbell was one of the earliest Navajo traders and is perhaps the most well known.  Hubbell and his family ran the trading post at Ganado, Arizona.  It is now the Hubbell Trading Post National Historic Site.  The book is a small coffee table style book designed to be interesting to look at and quick to read.  The text is primarily about Hubbell and his family and how he was involved in the issues of his time.  It includes a summarized history of the Navajo people and well appointed color and black and white photographs.<br />Since this book is only about Hubbell and the Ganado trading post, this book is an excellent historical resource if you are planning on visiting that site or would like a souvenier book.  I purchased it as a supplemental text to learn more about Hubbell after I had learned about other trading posts and the Navajo culture.  If you are interested in learning more comprehensive information about the Navajo culture and the role of the traders, I would recommend &quot;Wide Ruins&quot; by Sallie Wagner and &quot;Navajo Trader&quot; by Cladwell Richardson.  Out of the two books, &quot;Wide Ruins&quot; is my favorite, but both books contain personal stories of Navajo people and their culture.  I learned more about the role the traders played in the Navajo world from &quot;Wide Ruins&quot; and &quot;Navajo Trader&quot; then from &quot;Hubbell Trading Post National Historic Site&quot;, but it achieves its purpose with style.	2002-06-15
US	39426313	R2RTHPNQANE91D	0826309712	818836454	Edge of Taos Desert: An Escape to Reality	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Significant Historical Literature	In December of 1917, Mabel Dodge Sterne and her husband, artist Maurice Sterne, made their way up to Taos in an unforgettable journey up the rural road.  Mabel immediately connected spiritually and emotionally with Taos and was drawn to find a place to stay.  &quot;Edge of Taos Desert&quot; is the story of her personal transformation during her first year in Taos. In many ways, this book is an insightful commentary on Santa Fe and Taos in 1918. Mabel's description of the physical and cultural environment is vivid. She describes the Mexicans bringing in wood by burro to sell as well the first time she saw an Indian. Careful readers will discern the conflicts and prejudices between the Pueblo people, the Mexicans, and the more newly arrived Anglos.  She provides many priceless early observations of the region that may best be understood by readers who have some knowledge of New Mexico history and culture. However, understanding Mabel's history may provide more information about the significance of this book.<br />Mabel Dodge Luhan grew up in a wealthy family that left her emotionally bankrupt.  She spent years of her adult life looking for the fulfillment of her emptiness.  She was a renaissance woman in Italy, and then a salon hostess in New York, hosting conversations with some of the brightest minds of her time.  She was a radical modernist looking for a solution to the American ills brought on by the Industrial Revolution. &quot;Edge of Taos Desert&quot; is the most important autobiographical chapter in her life because, in the Pueblo people, she believed that she had found a solution to both her emotional emptiness and America's discontentment.  Her role in the future became to draw artists to Taos to write about and paint the people, the place, and the culture in order that it might be saved and that, we, as Americans might also save ourselves with what we'd learned. <br />She had a messianic vision of utopia with the Victorian belief that a woman's role was tosupport others.  She found her own voice, though, in writing her autobiographies and several other books.  &quot;Edge of Taos Desert&quot; is a beautifully written literary piece.  She journeys through with strong social and cultural observations and a bold confidence and irreverence that allows her to see what a white woman of her time would not have been allowed to see.  By August of 1918, her third husband (Sterne) has returned to New York, and she enters the door of being one of the most infamous Taoseno's in that town's history with a poignant and personal tale to tell.	2002-06-12
US	39426313	R254UC5MXGVCNO	1555911927	558259391	Teddy Bear Stories for Grown-Ups	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Good Intention Misses the Mark	I was enthusiastically interested when I saw the title of this book.  I hoped for stories that were more in depth then children's books about teddy bears, with teddy bears that were not personified, but were still present in the stories.  I see teddy bears as being charming and innocent, and expected stories that reflected that quality without being condescending to an adult audience.<br />What the reader gets in this book is a group of stories complied by Catherine Taylor.  These stories were solicited from the general public in England.  This mismatched group of stories do maintain a teddy bear theme, but that is the only thing that they have in common.  Some of the stories are contrived, dark, and simply TOO adult for my tastes.  Overall, the quality of the writing and text choices reminds me of college publications that solicit manuscripts from the student population in order to create a publication with many voices.  In this case, teddy bears end up screaming the perceptions of the authors, and some of them are not seen with the compassion or tenderness that some people have for teddy bears.<br />The only reason I give this book 3 stars instead of 2 is because it seems to fill some market, and some adults may like the less-than-innocent themes.  The British have a different relationship with their bears then Americans do, and they definitely have a different sense of humor, which also may appeal to some.  A few of the stories did meet my expectations, and I found those few to be genuine and well written.  However, I still prefer a well written children's book about teddy bears to this book for adults.  <br />A similiar book of solicited compilations about dolls is &quot;Enchanted Companions:  Stories of Dolls in Our Lives&quot; by Carolyn Michael and Friends.  The writing is much better and the text is better presented.  If you also like dolls, I would recommend it over &quot;Teddy Bear Stories for Grown-Ups&quot; until something better about teddy bears comesalong.	2002-06-07
US	39426313	R2GAWH625GVF9U	1562477692	692893072	Welcome to Josefina's World 1824: Growing Up on America's Southwest Frontier (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	What a World!	\\"Josefina's World\\" is an excellent supplement to the Josefina chapter books and short stories.  Although each chapter book and short story has a section in the back with historical information that is relevant to the story in the book, \\"Josefina's World\\" is a colorful, informative historical overview with the kinds of information that readers will most want to know. There are wonderful cut-away pictures of Josefina's rancho and of a pueblo, which many children will find appealing. The experiences of birth, childhood, and marriage are covered along with fashion, cleanliness, faith, health and medicine, and the importance of the role of the community. Stories of real people of the time and the retelling of the folk tale of \\"La Llorona\\" supplement the text.  Historical information slips in with the coming of the Spanish, the blending of Pueblo and Spanish cultures, the significance of trade from Mexico City and the Santa Fe Trail, and the coming of the Americans in the mid-nineteenth century.  The text is divided into short sections that are easy to read and full of accurate, important historical information. The pictures show delightful representations of colonial New Mexico and even someone who does not read the text will get a comprehensive view of Josefina's World.	2002-06-07
US	39426313	R3AZAZSEX1UPVP	0879059133	71592824	Mabel's Santa Fe and Taos: Bohemian Legends, 1900-1950	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Early Santa Fe and Taos Art Colonies in Mabel's World	In December of 1917, Mabel Dodge Luhan, a wealthy patron of the arts, arrived in the very rural community of Taos, New Mexico. She arrived with an emotional need that drove her to be a focal point and a catalyst in the New Mexico art community.  Although she died in 1962, she is still a controversial figure in Taos, where her spirit lingers in her house; now a Bread and Breakfast frequently used for artists retreats.  Her personal artistic expression is found in the books she wrote, but she is best known for the amazing role she played in drawing painters, writers, and other artists to Taos and Santa Fe. <br /> &quot;Mabel's Santa Fe and Taos&quot; gives a brief biography of Mabel and of many of the most famous people whose lives she influenced. The people covered in this book include Charles Lummis, Adolf Bandelier, the Taos Society of Artists, Alice Corbin Henderson and William Penhallow Henderson, Witter Bynner, Spud Johnson, Andrew Dasburg, D.H Lawrence and Frieda Lawrence, Dorothy Brett, and Georgia O'Keefe.  This book also contains historical information about the culture of Taos and Santa Fe from 1900-1950, weaving together the people and the places in Mabel's world.<br />The text is informative and well written.  Black and white photographs of the people and places are found throughout the book.  Although this is an excellent overview that could be appreciated and understood by those new to the subject, it can also be used to summarize previous knowledge of the Santa Fe and Taos art colony during this time period.	2002-06-07
US	39426313	RKS6AALJZ0T6T	156247670X	224057322	Josefina's Craft Book: A Look at Crafts from the Past With Projects You Can Make Today (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Traditional Crafts for Modern Girls	Is your daughter wandering the aisles of the craft store with you, looking for her next weekend craft project? If your daughter is also a Josefina fan or is interested in New Mexico history, this is the book for her! There are fifteen crafts for a variety of abilities and interest levels, and all of them can turn into something a girl would be proud to have made. Crafts are divided into different sections: \\"Around the Rancho\\", \\"Spanish and Mexican Traditions\\", \\"Indian Traditions\\", \\"A Stitch in Time\\", and \\"Frontier Fun\\". The Straw Broom, Glass-Bead Necklace, clay Coil Pot, and Cornhusk dolls are quick crafts. Crafts like the Stamped Leather Bookmark require special tools. Making a Colcha embroidered Place Mat or a Hen Pincushion take some previously learned skills. But projects like making a Fringed Shawl or Sash could turn out well enough to show off to friends! Whichever craft you choose, the directions are well written and have a materials list and clear pictures for each step. The format and the pictures are so well done, that girls will eagerly want to browse through it to find their next craft project.	2002-06-06
US	39426313	R3VIOQ3SZG03ZM	1562476882	449499502	1824 Josefina: Teacher's Guide to Six Books About America's Southwest Frontier	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent Resource	This teacher's guide for the Josefina series of six books is an excellent resource for teachers and other adults who want to use this program for educational purposes. It contains an overview for the series, which includes a map and the historical context for the books.  Each book is addressed individually with plenty of teacher's notes.  Plot summaries and themes are explained for each book, and margin notes bring in additional information. There are vocabulary words for each book, and the teacher's introduction includes suggestions for working with vocabulary.<br />Worksheets cover \\"Before Reading\\", \\"As You Read\\", and \\"After You Read\\", which is a common process used for going through literature in the classroom. There are four worksheets for each book and each worksheet has three to four thought provoking questions. Charts, diagrams, and other word mapping graphs are used on some of the worksheets. For those who believe that hands-on learning is best, there is an extended idea section at the back of the guide.  \\"Give a Tour of Josefina's Home\\", \\"Interview Abuelito and Patrick O'Toole\\", and \\"Make a Model of Josefina's Home\\" are three of the five ideas presented.<br />The structure and the type of materials in this book will be familiar to teachers. This curriculum would work well in the classroom.  I did not see a grade level recommendation for this guide, but I have taught all elementary grades first through fifth, and I would not use it before fourth grade.  My recommendation is for fourth through eighth grades. Adults instructing second or third graders may find the information useful, but the materials inappropriate (unless you want to use it with gifted third graders).  But, as all teachers know, you take the information and materials that are appropriate for your group, and leave the rest.  If you are using the Josefina books with a group of students, though, you won't want to leave this guide behind.	2002-06-06
US	39426313	R241HTBVPI2BH5	0613117166	26478400	Josefinas Cookbook (American Girls Pastimes)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Try It, You'll Like It!	Josefina's Cookbook has a variety of foods that are common in the traditional New Mexican diet.  New Mexican food is unique to the region and includes items that are not even in the Hispanic diet in neighboring states. In a state whose State Question is \\"Red or Green?\\" (as in \\"Do you prefer red or green chile?\\"), caution must be taken in trying new foods if you are sensitive to spicy-hot foods, as many children are.  If you are unfamiliar with what is HOT in the New Mexican diet, going out and buying a New Mexican cookbook to introduce your children to this type of food may meet you with watering eyes and children reaching for tortilla chips to neutralize the burn.<br />Josefina's Cookbook is a much better choice for children because it is filled with child friendly recipes that still represent the New Mexican diet.  Some of the recipes are for small items, like home-made tortillas, hot chocolate, soft cheese, and pinto beans. Empanaditas (little empanadas), posole, green chile stew, and carne adovada are more meal oriented recipes. Just remember the sopaipillas if you are cooking with chile!<br />The format of this book is a joy to look through even if you want to learn about New Mexican cooking without preparing the more adventurous items.  The ingredients and cooking equipment are listed at the beginning of each recipe and the recipes themselves are well written and illustrated. It won't be hard for a girl to find something that she'll want to try.	2002-06-06
US	39426313	R1ZB74Q8SJL2Q3	1562476726	950274908	Josefina's Theater Kit: A Play About Josefina for You and Your Friends to Perform (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Bite Sized Play for Ambitious Actors	Josefina's Theater Kit contains the ingredients to create a short play about Josefina.  The play is titled \\"Josefina's Gift\\". Each of the five acts in the play are based on the book \\"Happy Birthday, Josefina!\\" Josefina believes that she may want to be a healer like her Tia Magdalena until she accidently breaks one of Tia Magdalena's priceless jars while cleaning, and then runs home.  Tia Dolores helps Josefina take responsibility for her actions, and get a second chance to have Tia Magdalena teach her about being a healer.  Her lesson on herbs with Tia Magdalena, and her confidence in herself give her the chance to save her friend, Marianna, from a snake bite.<br />The play is for six characters (five females, one male role for Papa).  It comes with four script booklets, a directors guide, and a poster to announce your performance.  The scripts contain stage directions: an excellent practice for reading materials written in different formats. The directors guide contains information about the directors job, stage directions, costuming, stage sets, and how to put on the play. All of the materials are detailed and user friendly.  Motivated actors could make this into a production worthy of inviting the neighborhood over, or even a talent show entry.	2002-06-05
US	39426313	RXHWRLLXRORB7	1562477633	720874015	A Reward for Josefina (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Fall Adventure	\\"A Reward for Josefina\\" is the first Josefina short story that was published. It is set in the Fall shortly after Tia Dolores's arrival to Josefina's family, possibly putting it shortly before or during the time period in \\"Josefina Learns a Lesson\\". Tia Dolores is a new adult in the family, and Josefina desparately wants her to think of Josefina as being special. The family and their hired hands go out to gather pinon nuts (pine nuts from a Pinon tree), and as a motivator, a reward is offered to the one who gathers the most. Josefina hopes it will be her, until she is left behind to tend to her oldest sister's two young sons. Josefina and her three year old nephew, Juan, find a way to gather the biggest treasure of nuts without leaving their camp site. Somehow, the reward, a cone of sugar, has run off with a squirrel (in exchange for the nuts?), but Josefina finds the reward that she is looking for.	2002-06-02
US	39426313	RZCEJ1ZYIYLUM	1584854782	704021329	Just Josefina (American Girls Short Stories)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Lively Nine Year Old Learns That She is Just Josefina	\\"Just Josefina\\" is the most recently published (and fourth) short story about Josefina. \\"Just Josefina\\" fits between the books \\"Meet Josefina\\" and \\"Josefina Learns a Lesson\\". Josefina's grandparents have brought Tia (Aunt) Dolores to stay with Josefina's family and to visit. Josefina and her sisters greet their grandparents with respect, and then Josefina helps Abuelita freshen up after her journey.  It is clear that Abuelita holds a special place in her heart for Josefina.  It is also clear that Abueblita expects Josefina to be a quiet, well mannered girl who follows the rules of conduct, even when her sisters don't.<br />Josefina is torn between wanting to please her Abuelita and wanting to be herself. At a party, Tia Dolores plays her piano while the friends and neighbors dance.  She urges Josefina to show them the new dance that she has learned, but Josefina is too young to dance in front of others.  Abuelita is shocked at Tia Dolores's suggestion, and claims that Josefina is too shy.  But dance is exactly what Josefina wants to do, and ends up doing, to Abuelita's disapproval.  <br />Then, her skirt button pops.  Abuelita had given the skirt to Josefina because it was the skirt of Josefina's deceased mother, and Abuelita's oldest daughter. Josefina tries to give Abuelita the skirt back, because, like Abuelita's image of Josefina as being shy and obedient like her Mama, it just didn't fit.  In the end, the skirt button can be adjusted to fit, just like how Abuelita sees Josefina can be changed to accept Josefina as \\"Just Josefina\\".<br />This book is my favorite out of the Josefina short stories because of the clear, dignified portrayal of Abuelita as a traditional Spanish matron. I also enjoyed this book because Josefina learns that she can communicate who she is without compromising her relationship with her grandmother.	2002-06-02
US	39426313	R36G4Q9VLVBLAO	1584850329	534213741	Again, Josefina! (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Value of Pleasure verses Perfection	\\"Again, Josefina\\" is the second book published in the series of Josefina short stories.  The setting of the story takes place shortly after the book \\"Josefina Learns a Lesson\\". Josefina is fascinated with Tia Dolores's piano and the wonderful music that Tia Dolores can make with it.  Tia Dolores is willing to teach Josefina how to play, but Papa wonders if Josefina will be able to manage it with her chores and school lessons. Josefina persuades him to let her learn how to play the piano, but is quickly a disenchanted learner when she realizes that she must start from the beginning and practice more then she has time to do.  When Josefina feels that she is not making progress, she asks Papa if she can quit. Instead of allowing her to quit, Josefina is challenged to find a way to practice. She is a clever child, and she finds a way to practice even when she is not sitting at the piano. Then, she finds her joy in playing the piano and acceptance for herself as a learner when her toddler nephew happily \\"dances\\" to her imperfect piano playing.  This short story is an excellent tale of the frustration of learning something new, and the value of doing something for pleasure instead of perfection.	2002-06-02
US	39426313	RKWPR8XJ698ZR	1562476750	593305170	Josefina an American Girl (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Change and Tradition	Josefina (pronounced \\"ho-sa-FEE-nah\\") is a nine year old Hispanic girl growing up on a large rancho in New Mexico in 1824. The first story opens up with Josefina and her three older sisters finding comfort in daily chores while thinking about Mama, who had died a year before. Then, Abuelo (Grandfather) returns from a trip to Mexico City, bringing with him Tia (Aunt) Dolores. From then on, Tia Dolores is the catalyst for change. The educated, independent young aunt brings new beliefs about a woman's role and challenges the more tradional role that Mama had played in the family. Fortunately, Tia Dolores is a wise and gentle teacher who teaches Josefina that learning new things or doing things differently does not mean forgetting the old. Memories of Mama can be found in learning to read and write, repairing her embroidered altar cloth, celebrating Christmas, and in learning to care for the family and household. Josefina learns that her heart can embrace her cultural traditions while her spirit flies free on the wind of personal, family, and cultural changes.<br />New Mexico Hispanic traditions and the historical lifestyle are accurately portrayed through Josefina's daily routines. The focus on Josefina and her world makes the stories relevant and interesting to the readers. Readers learn about laundry, cooking and baking, food choices, gardens, trips to the river for water, friendships, family roles, manners and codes of conduct, and celebrations. Josefina's family faces tragedy in a flood, hard work to recover losses and maintain daily existance, the emotional conflict of change, and other choices appropriate to the world they live in. Additional historical information for each story is at the back of each book, making this a history lesson that goes down with a spoonful of sugar and much enjoyment.<br />Each book is only 4 chapters long, and if all you want out of it is a nice story, then this series will deliver it in a historical setting that is new to many readers. Because of the excellent research that was done, this series can be used for new students (children and adults) of Southwest history. However, those who want to look deeper will find that the themes of the stories work well with New Mexico history of the time. In 1821, the Santa Fe Trail opened up, bringing Americans to Santa Fe. They brought new goods, created a merchant class, and brought values that were more materialistic than either the Hispanic or Pueblo people had lived by. Josefina, like other members of the younger generation, would spend a lifetime learning about choices, change, and deciding what traditions to hang onto. The Hispanic culture did change, and the wealthy merchants adapted to an Americanized world while rural communities sought to continue to live by their cultural traditions. Either way, the world that Josefina and her sisters inherited would not hold for them the same roles, expectations, and choices that their grandmother had. It is a credit to the Hispanic people that they held onto so much because they did it against discrimination, and in the face of change. To this extent, Tia Dolores is the symbol of this coming change, and Mama is the traditions that they must choose to remember and honor. I reread this series occationally, and it still brings much to my life. Although the brevity of the books is deceptive, I would stick with the publishers recommended reading age of 8-12 (about second through sixth grades) because there is so much that can be learned and enjoyed in these books that a younger child may miss.	2002-06-02
US	39426313	RKPZHJVRV1PGS	1584852720	313392040	Josefina's Song (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brave and Bold	\\"Josefina's Song\\" is the third Josefina short story that was published, but it is set just before the book \\"Josefina Saves the Day\\".  In \\"Josefina's Song\\", Josefina is allowed to join her Papa on a trip to the local mountains.  They are going to visit the shepherd and his son who spend most of the year with the herd of sheep on the more abundant grazing land found in the mountains.  When they arrive at their camp, they realize that the shepherd has become blind from a fever, and his nine year old son watches the sheep.  Even though the shepherd proves himself capable around the camp, Papa is still worried for his safety. Papa offers to house them comfortably in town, but Josefina boldly speaks up for them, jeopardizing her own trip to Santa Fe that same summer. On their way home, a summer storm hits and Papa is injured when his frightened horse rears at lightning and bolts.  Brave Josefina leads her Papa on her own horse back to the shepards camp, until men from home discover the runaway horse and rescue them in the morning.  During the night, Josefina sings in her beautiful voice to the shepherd's flute playing. When she runs out of songs she knows, she sings her feelings about her journey, her outspokenness, the storm, Papa's accident and about the care the shepherd gives them. The next day, the abilities of the shepherd and his son are re-evaluated.	2002-06-02
US	39426313	R2RBGWTTJD79H3	0375813616	256047346	Junie B. Jones's First Boxed Set Ever! (Books 1-4)	Books	5	51	65	N	N	Motivation in the Classroom	This series is a runaway hit, which explains why there are so many of them!  This series is a must have for any primary (kindergarten-third grade) classroom.  Junie B. Jones' kindergarten grammar defines her impatient, excited, five year old personality.  I loved reading these books aloud to primary students.  They lend themselves to fast speech, a foot stomp of impatience, and expressive reading for those who enjoy reading aloud.  I would only need to read one Junie B. Jones book to first or second graders, and the rest would jump off of the classroom shelves.  I would have to ask students to take copies out of their desks if I wanted to read another one aloud to the class.  Students don't take Junie B. Jones' personality or misadventures seriously. They are wonderfully wacky and entertaining to a child's mind.  What IS serious is that these books get young students eager to read chapter books.  I have seen many first graders choose Junie B. Jones as their first chapter books.  My students and I loved these books so much that classroom copies became worn, and I am now purchasing new copies for my personal collection.  If your child has Junie B. Jones books that they enjoyed and have outgrown, make sure they don't want to keep them, then, pass them along to a primary teacher!	2002-06-02
US	39426313	R2X9S9Y4GMRQM2	0439206707	788074807	My Duck	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Child's Point of View of Classroom Story Writing	\\"My Duck\\" is a quick tale about a first or second grade girl who is assigned the challenging task of writing a story in school.  Her imagination bursts forth with the logic of childhood (the yellow-green duck needs shoes, so that he can leave home).  However, her creativity is not rewarded by her teacher, and she must restart her story several times.  The characters she draws as a part of her story-writing attempts then take on a life of their own, continuing on in their own adventure.  In the end, she finds a way to please her teacher's desire for realism without giving up her own creativity.  Primary teachers will understand that there is a place for realism in education, but  children and parents will rejoice in the heroine's ability to maintain her confidence in her imagination while meeting the requirements of the assignment. The text is written at a first/second grade reading level and the illustrations appear to be kid drawn, lending to the appeal of this story.  Primary students will be able to relate to this story and enjoy it!	2002-06-01
US	39426313	R3CMW3D1KIPH6H	0965259625	91460408	Voices in the Dreamtime, A Journey Into The Self	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	&quot;Dreamtime&quot; Offers New Beliefs  for Today's Reality	&quot;Voices in the Dreamtime: A Journey Into The Self&quot; is the autobiographical record of one woman's journey to find herself in her truth and her Divine Spirit.  The lessons she has learned are the most powerful, fundamental truths that I have ever encountered.  The first time I heard them (from Sydney herself), it changed the way I saw myself, the world, and the possibilities my life held for me.  These lessons have stood the test of time in my life and are still a part of who I am and what I believe.  Rereading what I was taught ten years ago has reminded me of myself and propels me forward with the integrity that leads me through to my life's purpose.<br />Sydney's style of writing is enjoyable and can be read quickly, but what is expressed in this book is worth the time to ponder and understand.  As her story delves into integrating her lost Selves, she learns about honesty of spirit.  She learns that this deepest level of honesty requires emotional expression, and the wisdom to learn from the lessons life presents instead of being victimized by them.  This truth requires her to take responsibility for her feelings, beliefs, and actions.  It demands from her a commitment to speak her personal truth.  Along the way, she finds love, losses, and the joy of owning her Self.<br />The most important gift this book gives its readers is the awareness that each person is a part of the landscape being painted at this time on the planet.  All of us have a responsibility to ourselves, the lessons we have chosen to learn in our lifetime, and our journey back to the Divine Spirit that is in each of us.  In the integration of the individual lies the connected power of the whole.  Her message of the spirit's power to heal and find its soul purpose remains a timely one for seekers with open hearts and minds.	2002-05-24
US	39426313	R1QCRDF4R39IGB	1550372564	689627543	Purple, Green and Yellow (Munsch for Kids)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Colorful and funny!	This story begins with young Brigid's desire to have markers like all of her friends.  Her anxious mother frets that Brigid will color on walls, floors, and herself.  Brigid's plea is victorious when she makes her point for water color markers.  <BR>\\"They wash off with just water...Get me some of those.\\"  She gets a box of 500 water color markers.  Brigid soon grows bored and makes her case for getting markers that smell, and then finally a box of \\"super-indelible-never-come-off-till-you're-dead-and-maybe-even-later colouring markers.\\"  Then, bored with paper, she starts coloring her fingernails....Brigid is a colorful character who slips into coloring on herself, as many young children do.  Adults may fret that this book may encourage children to draw on themselves, but this story is funny because of the unreal solution to the very real problem of children coloring on themselves. The children that I have read this to seem to get that this is the real point to this book.  This book is for every child who has ever preferred markers to crayons or colored pencils, and then wandered away from their original purpose.	2002-05-20
US	39426313	R295ZEQ1TW17F2	0689848722	902325122	Every Girl Tells a Story: A Celebration of Girls Speaking Their Minds	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hope for the future	Every Girl Tells a Story celebrates the diversity of America and shatters the stereotype of \\"teen-age girl\\".  These 12-18 year old young women have lives that are active, spirits that are strong, and stories that inspire.  The young women speak from their own voice and experience as they share uncommon events like cancer, birth defects, surgery, and organ transplant.  They talk about the life changing events of going to a new school, being in foster care, living with disabled family members, divorce, and the death of a parent.  Above it all, they dream, they help others, and they want to make the world a better place. And after reading their stories, I'm sure they will.  Their stories are a voice of strength and compassion for any teen-age girl trying to find her way in the world, and an uplifting read for anyone.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-05-15
US	39426313	R33NJJBB3UIVM1	0152024107	344729276	Let's Go Visiting	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A Visit at the Farm	\\"Let's Go Visiting\\" is the delightful to sequel to \\"I Went Walking\\".   Even though they are both simple stories, the story in \\"Let's Go Visiting\\" differs from \\"I Went Walking\\".  Having both books won't leave children or their parents bored with the same story from these repetitive sentence books.  \\"Let's go visiting.  What do you say?\\"  brings in baby farm animals, ready to play! This book utilizes counting to six and teaches the names for the baby farm animals (kittens, piglets, calves). The wonderful illustrations are active and create their own story, complimenting the simplicity of the text. Although this book is recommended as a read aloud for babies through toddlers, I would also include it as an independent reader for kindergarten and first grades.	2002-05-08
US	39426313	ROWKPC174W8IL	0152004718	37082548	I Went Walking	Books	5	27	27	N	Y	This book is a treasure	I discovered \\"I Went Walking\\" when I taught first grade.  It was a part of their literature series early in the year.  I have no children of my own and I own both the board book and the paperback edition of this book because I love the illustrations and the rhythmical quality of the text. As someone who has professionally worked with children ages 2-12, I find that this kind of text is invaluable to early readers (ages 2-7).  Children can easily pick up on the patterns in the sentences and begin developing many pre-reading skills (like being able to identify the left to right movement of written sentences).  To find books that your young child will want to read over and over again is a jewel in their literacy development.  To find books like this that you will want to read over and over again with your child is a treasure box of time shared!	2002-05-08
US	39426313	R14FZXZ3V3V828	0152000771	504053134	The Very Best of Friends	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Touching and Funny!	\\"The Very Best of Friends\\" is illustrated by Julie Vivas.  Her watercolor paintings of round, warm people and  friendly animals grace such books as \\"Wilfred Gordon MacDonald Partridge\\", \\"I Went Walking\\", and \\"I Went Visiting\\".  \\"The Very Best of Friends\\" is about a quirky older farm couple (Jessie and James) and James's cat, William.  Jessie tolerates William, who is James's best animal friend, until James dies.  James's death takes a hard toll on both Jessie and William, until Jessie sees what she must do in order to finally go on with her life.  \\"The Very Best of Friends\\" is filled with a humor that even adults will laugh at and quality illustrations everyone will enjoy.	2002-05-08
US	39426313	R2HO5Q1NIJRUWZ	076832243X	158159698	Imagine - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture in set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly. I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months. For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R3SHEZSBBFICYV	0768322448	437602077	Life's Adventures - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles. These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used as a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout. This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and the back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	RBKCBRDJHE1LV	0768322634	668968775	Believe - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark. The front picture is set back in a cutout. This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months. For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out! Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	RGXC1YK31B98U	0768322561	39606029	Moments - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R22TJ5JA7NOJUC	0768322596	972848067	Dreams - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used as a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R17IZUHX2OCWRH	076832257X	874537235	Thoughts - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R297CHH9X6L4XR	0768322472	524280417	Life's Journey - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's. I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used as a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R2MJ1E8GNDGWRZ	0768322413	978290177	Destiny	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts. I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R35ST7E209NXTL	0768322502	624175534	Passages - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R3M0OQQ2NERN71	0768322456	755707414	Sweet Memories - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market. I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R35OCI6UVONYBY	0768322618	188258477	Life is Sweet - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used for a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope that more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R29NACPRAUNCZU	0768322529	15203828	Forever - Blank Book by Flavia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Flavia Blank Books	I have enjoyed the magical drawings and sweet sentiments of Flavia's greeting cards and gift books since the 80's.  I was delighted when I discovered that there is now a line of journals with Flavia artwork and inspirational titles.  These colorful journals lay flat for easy writing and have an elastic band on the back that can be used as a bookmark.  The front picture is set back in a cutout.  This book is thick enough to hold many thoughts for avid writers who don't want to replace journals monthly.  I write on the front and back of the lined pages and mine last 2-6 months.  For me, it is long enough to feel like it was worth my money and short enough for periodic fresh starts.  I have gone through more then 3 Flavia journals, and still prefer them over others on the market.  I just hope more designs keep coming out!  Your only problem with this journal will be choosing which one to pick first!	2002-05-07
US	39426313	R25T7JRNZMRQ6S	0688158404	732172196	The Bag I'm Taking to Grandma's	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Quality story for early readers	The Bag I'm Taking to Grandma's is written at a kindergarten-second grade reading level. The first half of the book progresses in the soothing cadence of repeating rhymning lines, like in \\"The House That Jack Built\\".  Pictures of the items being packed are included in the sentences (instead of the words for the item), which may take adults time to adjust to, but it makes reading easier for children. Preschoolers will love to hear this story as a read aloud and will love \\"reading\\" the picture clues with you. The second half of the story continues as mom clarifies what really needs to be packed for grandma's house. Any parent who has had a child pack too many toys and no clothes or toothbrush in an overnight bag will laugh at this delightful tale! This story is a quality story for early readers and their preschool siblings.	2002-05-06
US	39426313	R2YL3NYKB0XY1G	0395525950	956657536	Grandma Gets Grumpy	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	This Grandma  is for Children and their Parents!	In Grandma Gets Grumpy, Grandma loves her grandchildren and plays with them affectionately. She has a puppet, toys, and dress up clothes to insure that her grandchildren have a good time while visiting. Then, one night while she has her 5 young grandchildren (from 3 sets of parents)in her care, the mess gets too big and the children get too careless.  You bet that Grandma will grumpy! My favorite sentence is when the grandchildren remark to each other that she is getting grumpy, just like their moms and dads. Grandma replies, \\"You bet I do...That's because I taught Lassen's mom, and Brian's mom, and Casey's dad everything they know about being grumpy.  And I'm older, so I've had more practice.\\"  This Grandma shows that it is possible to have a fun, loving relationship with children and still set boundaries for behavior and discipline.  This is one Grandma that any child would wish they had and one that any parent would want to care for their children.	2002-05-06
US	39426313	R3QXLGENNIIJRR	0875886035	737427724	Cherish Me Always: A Century of Dolls, Antique Photographs of Children with Dolls	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Sentimental Journey	The Cherish Me Always series of 4 books (3 have been published as of Spring 2002) have grown out of the authors' photograph collection. The authors share their collection of photos with the tenderness of one sharing a personal photo album. This volume is 136 pages of beautiful vintage photos with information about the photos and the subjects. Literary quotes and poetry appear occationally to maintain a nostalgic childhood memory. Although this book has a great deal of value in recording dolls and clothing from different decades (before 1950), the biggest asset of this book is its emotional value. The predominantly female subjects hold their dolls tenderly and show them off proudly. It is a sentimental journey into America's past that the reader can easily indulge in.	2002-05-04
US	39426313	R6H7B7CW1RVB3	0875886043	115134792	Cherish Me Always: Teddy Bears & Warm Fuzzies, Antique Photographs of Children with Stuffed Animals	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Enchanted Journey	Cherish Me Always is a series of 4 books (3 have been published as of Spring 2002) that have grown out of the author's photograph collection. The photographs are shared in a graphic format that compliment the vintage photos. Poetry and literary quotes maintain the feeling of childhood storybook wonder. The child subjects of \\"Teddy Bears and Warm Fuzzies\\" are both girls and boys. Many of the toy companions shown are teddy bears, but not exclusively so. There are many identifiable and unidentifiable plush toys that do not seem to be teddy bears, but all of the plush animals seem to be loved and cherished by their child companions. This book is an enchanted journey back to the childhood days of bygone years.	2002-05-04
US	39426313	R3FEA5M56YBINW	0762712228	908295633	More than Petticoats: Remarkable New Mexico Women (More than Petticoats Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent sampling of New Mexico women in history	More Than Petticoats: Remarkable New Mexico Women is an excellent sampling of women in New Mexico history. This book offers brief biographies of women, crossing ethnic and cultural barriers and spanning several hundred years of herstory. Some of the women included in this volume are Mabel Dodge Luhan (patron of early Southwest Arts), Mary Colter (Fred Harvey/Santa Fe Railroad architect), Georgia O'Keefe (aritist), Maria Martinez (potter),and Elsie Clews Parsons (anthropolgist). Seven other women or groups of women (like the Harvey Girls) are also included.  This enjoyable book of significant women is a wonderful volume for those who would like to know a little about a lot of people from one book.  I particularly appreciated the regional/state focus because I was familiar with most of the women written about. &quot;More Than Petticoats&quot; is a series focusing on the women who were influential in individual states, and I would definately read more from this series!	2002-04-08
US	39426313	R2NARPKFKRJUQW	1584855010	174969216	Molly's Route 66 Adventure  (The American Girls Collection)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Fun Scrapbook of Route 66	Molly's Route 66 Adventure is an entertaining introduction to post-war travel along America's Main Street.  It is written as a scrapbook with journal type entries by Molly McIntire, the 10 year old title character from American Girl's \\"Meet Molly\\" series.  As a scrapbook, there is not a strong storyline and only brief information for each place \\"visited\\" by Molly.  However, the information given is historically correct and even uses the 1945 names of places, such as \\"Boulder Dam\\" for what is now called \\"Hoover Dam\\".  The most enjoyable part of this book is the graphics.  Each page has black and white photographs and postcard images.  There is a map that opens up, envelopes with Mollys' souveniers, booklets, a meal receipt, a menu and a lot of fun things to look at and even take out of the book.  It reminds me of The Jolly Postman, which has letters that can be taken out of envelopes and read.  I would recommend Molly's Route 66 Adventure for ages 8 and up because of the content and because the envelopes and other removable items will need to be handled gently. Even though the written information is by no means comprehensive, the scrapbook format is a lot fun and could be the springboard for pursuing more detailed information about Route 66 or serve as inspiration to start one's own postcard collection!	2002-03-16
US	39426313	R3R0AGZO8UQ4GW	0875886310	341359725	The Teddy Bear Men 2nd Edition: Theodore Roosevelt & Clifford Berryman	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A MUST HAVE for adult teddy bear collectors	As an adult collector of teddy bears, I have read many summaries regarding the 1902 Presidential bear hunting trip and the Clifford Berryman cartoon that began America's love with the newly created \\"teddy bear\\".  Almost every book for adult collectors has some version of this story in its introduction.  I found Linda Mullins' The Teddy Bear Men to be a superior and detailed account of the real story.  Mullins wisely included the highlights from the November 1902 accounts from The Washington Post, which clearly recounted how and why a bear ended up being tied and presented to President Theodore Roosevelt for him to shoot.  Washington Post cartoonist, Clifford Berryman, then portrayed this incident in a cartoon, which may be familiar to many collectors.  The cartoon bear that evolved from this initial cartoon became Berryman's artist symbol (\\"dingbat\\") and linked the teddy bear (both the Berryman cartoon and the toy versions) to President Roosevelt's political career. This book is a well researched documentation of Clifford Berryman, Theodore Roosevelt, and of the significant contribution they made to the rise of the first teddy bears.  It is presented in a reader friendly manner, with a well written text, short chapters, and many photos and drawings on each page.  I found this book to be both intelligent and enjoyable.	2002-02-10
US	39426313	R1XK1ZNSMRD9LI	0967911109	629227886	Enchanted Companions : Stories of Dolls in Our Lives	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Enchanted Companion	This book was created by Carolyn Michael, her friends, and other contacts as a part of individual and group writing practice.  The author states in the introduction that she was inspired by a story written by another participant about her mother's feelings about a special doll.  The story is the first story in the book, entitled &quot;Who Would I Tell?&quot; by Susan Berlin.  This treasure holds 24 more stories, which the author has been collecting since 1993.  This memoir style collection speaks with many voices, including several pieces by children.  The stories are brought to life with black and white photos of the dolls that are in each story and by picures of the writers as children.  My favorite story in this collection is called, &quot;The Night My Fanny Hit the Wall&quot; by Nina Munk, who was 15 when she wrote this story.  She speaks of the touching moment when she realized that her dolls were not real.  Carolyn Michael's collection allows each writer to share their own personal experience, while connecting the reader with the common experiences that many of us have shared.  I would recommend this book for adults and older children who value the memories of love and friendship with their own special dolls, and for those who want to reflect on a cherished time in childhood.	2001-12-16
