US	39431061	R3G6S1LGPYKXT2	0060580518	65866850	To the Tower Born: A Novel of the Lost Princes	Books	1	10	17	N	N	Bury this one with the poor princes!	Appalling yet thankfully equally forgetable! <br />Written from the perspective of two teenage girls, this book is suited to the same audience.  The writing though seemingly well-researched (as far as the cast of characters is concerned) is simplistic and insulting to an adult reader with more than a 6th grade education.  Her theory on the mystery is contrary to most published accounts and so offers a fresh perspective, yet it is an improbable and honey-coated approach to a great mystery and likely terrible crime.  Her lead character Nell's freedom of movement and accessiblilty through all barriers, borders and boundaries is absurd.  Not worth the price - not worth the time - not worth using it as a fire starter.  STAY AWAY FROM THIS BOOK!	2005-10-14
US	39431061	RV90V0W0I0QMC	0684869497	822218853	The Gardens of Kyoto: A Novel	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Rambling, cluttered and yet interesting	I struggle to write this review because I'm not sure if this book was good or terrible.  I can only say, it is some of both. <br />I loved the story of Ellen and her cousin Randall - the commonalities they shared, the introspection and retrospection he inspired in her.  The twists and turns of the story kept me turning pages.  The author takes this tale and weaves into the story of Randall's father, his lost love Ruby, her brief encounter with Professor X who (and here the story gets very dull) is associated with the war department and the decision not to drop an atomic bomb on Kyoto Japan, and this wraps back to a book Randall loved and left to Ellen upon his death (no secret, he dies in line one).  Beyond this, the author incorporates domestic abuse, slavery, abortion, adoption, the Korean War, mental illness, suicide, murder and millions of descriptions of social propriety as Ellen becomes an adult in post WWII Philadelphia.  It's a jumble of flashbacks and somehow all of this is pulled together in an interesting story -although quite anti-climactic.  This book was recommended to me and yet I hesitate to recommend it to anyone looking for an entertaining read.  It is definately thought provoking and even disturbing in a way - I find the author a bit squashing of the human spirit.  Her characters lie, cheat, and keep awful secrets locked inside of themselves and do little to help their fellow man.  The one character I liked dies in line one.	2005-09-06
US	39431061	R2FIDZK8C0Y6EM	0385181035	472408595	Madselin	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A good story - a new perspective	Loving everything related to the Norman Conquest of England and preferring the English perspective, I eagerly ventured into a book that told the story from the view of an English WOMAN.  Madselin is a young bride married to an elderly English lord, whom she views with contempt always having loved another man who she could not have.  Suddently her dull, yet safe world is turned upside down by the Battle of Hastings in 1066.  Most of them men and boys are dead.  The majority of the population is killed or enslaved or in temporary hiding.  Madeslin is given an opportunity for survival and to, perhaps, aid in the survival of some of her countrymen.  She weds Rolf, the man who has been granted her dead husband's former holdings.  This is where her adventure truly begins.  She has led a life of ease and now must become vividly aware of the suffering of others, recognize some goodness within her \\"enemies\\", come to grips with the past, and move ahead to the future. <br /> <br />The author does a good job dealing with the changes to social structure and seems to understand rural life of the time.  She de-romanticises the notion of lords and ladies, knights  and their steeds by telling of the finanical burden they bring with them.  She also tells a good tale about the idea of political marriage or marriage of convenience without illusions of a reluctant bride being swept away into a life of dazzling romance.  This is NOT a thrilling accounto of the Battle of Hastings.  For that try \\"Housecarl\\" by Laurence J. Brown.  This is NOT an exciting tale of English resistance.  For that try \\"Cold Heart, Cruel Hand\\" by Brown again.  This IS a nice story about dealing with what cannot be changed in the past, and the present and learning to help shape your own future.	2005-08-30
US	39431061	R337048NTQ3Z4R	0385035519	930717436	Knight's Acre	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Too long and too predictable	I was thrilled with Lofts' book \\"A Wayside Tavern\\" and I opened this book expecting more great story telling.  Instead, I found at best a cheesy romance loaded with predictability and about 100 pages more than it really took to tell this sad little story.  I found the characters rather unlikeable and many of the twists that could have made the tale interesting were never explored.  The author took the easy road to the climax of the book and personally, I could care less what happens to any of the characters in the sequels.  The \\"other woman\\" is a tramp  predictably written as wild and unpredictable.  The long suffering loyal wife continues to suffer and the wandering knight who wanders in the worst of ways seems to be an immature, unreliable, weak-willed twit who pretty much deserves what is coming to him - though his family certainly deserved better than he ever provided.  Turn on Jerry Springer and save your reading time for something of more merit.	2005-08-01
US	39431061	RUMFMYP66NP0X	0449201406	452033902	A Wayside Tavern	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Woven like a fine tapestry	This was my first venture into a Norah Lofts novel - what a terrific find!  The book begins in the 4th century as the Roman army begins to pull out of England.  Wounded and unable to continue with the troops, Paulus remains behind at the \\"deserted\\" wayside tavern they had stumbled across.  One act of kindness begets another and soon Paulus has unknowingly started a family and a story of a family home to reach through the centuries.  Ms. Lofts brilliantly and seamlessly weaves each generation of her story into the next, culminating with a single reminder back to the days of Paulus which I think wrapped the story beautifully back to it's beginning.  Along the way, however, you will enjoy stories of historical interest, religion,love, loss, and the simple human characteristics that create great human drama.  I thoroughly enjoyed each step along the way and I highly recommend this book.	2005-07-05
US	39431061	R28RUA920WD0YX	0399152563	800350613	Prince of Darkness	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Well done history, ok mystery	This time Justin De Quincy (The Queen's Man) finds himself HELPING Lord John while his mother Queen Eleanor is in Germany securing the release of King Richard.  I had a bit of trouble finding sympathy for John's plight - but that helped me to related to Justin who felt the same.  I always find Penman's descriptions of 12th century England fascinating - and this time she she took me along with Justin to 12th century France as well.  When it comes to her history, Penman is a terrific writer. As for the mystery of her books, I am not as impressed.  I think she has improved with each of the three books, and this one is again much better.  I did not have it figured out and I did enjoy the excitement of the hunt for the killer at large.  It was a little anti-climactic but did set the scene for another book, and I hope she writes one.  I like the character development and I find all of them interesting and pleasantly familiar.  I look forward to more adventures with them.	2005-06-15
US	39431061	R2HRQXNFN3SJXY	0595175821	833496406	The Firedrake	Books	2	4	8	N	N	A bit stark in style for my tastes	The Firedrake tells the story of an Irish knight whose latest paycheck arrives fighting for the Duke of Flanders.  As part of the Duke's support for William of Normandy, he sends Laeghaire to assist in a series of campaigns thoughout France.  Proving to be a valuable warrior, William eventually takes him along on his conquest of England in 1066.  Along the way, Laeghaire struggles with love, lust and loss.  He contemplates portents and he ponders his own humanity and what he truly wants from life.  It's a nice tale, but I was dissapointed that there was not a better view of William from Laeghaire's perspective.  Naturally, this depiction exists, but it is far from the centerpiece of the story. I think this could have added a more powerful undercurrent to the story than Laeghaire's inability to understand his relationship with his German lover.  Holland writes in a very brief and almost curt manner.  Her sentance structure is very abbreviated and I felt the writing simply did not flow as well as I would personlly have liked. The writing style seemed more appropriate to a court transcript or police report than for telling the tale of a great warrior of old. I also felt her battle scene depictions were less than vivid.  In fact, the culmination of the entire story - the Battle of Hastings -is but a snippet of the book compared to the LONG lead up to it.<br /><br />This book certainly ranks below Housecarl by Laurence J. Brown and The Lord of Sunset by Parke Godwin. When it comes to events surrounding 1066 - those are FIVE star works of art; this...a two star use of free time.	2005-06-03
US	39431061	R2HCPNQLCH06VA	0765310848	348890104	Nobody Comes Back: A Novel of the Battle of the Bulge	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Entertaining yet disturbing reality of war	This is the story of Toby Parker - born to a family that could have easily been the stars of a 1930s Jerry Springer Show.  They leave much to be desired, not the least of which seems to be any actual interest in their son.  Oddly, it was probably this reality that groomed Toby for the horrors he was to face during the Battle of the Buldge.  As with many stories of the war, Toby was dropped off rather ill-trained and quite unprepared into an area soon to be over-run by the German army.  One of the few survivors he becomes a \\"straggler\\" occassionally alone, periodically with others, who resort to basic human survival instincts in an attempt to return to the safety of the American forces.  What I believe I found most horrifying were the images of dehuminization.  Toby himself struggles to maintain his humanity, \\"reminded\\" - perhaps - of it through his dreams of home.   <br />     My only struggle with this book is the author's obvious knowledge of WWII weapons, ammunition and machinery.  I found it long at times as he described the military hardware in great detail and seemed to become side-tracked from the strength of his writing which is the human drama amongst the bullets and bombs. <br />    It is a good read and I did enjoy it.  For another option try Articles of War.  For a look at the fighting man's perspective from WWI, I recommend Birdsong and for the same perspective nearly 900 years earlier try Housecarl.  All of these will provide you with a fictional yet factual drama of the front line warriors through the ages and their struggles for sanity and survival.	2005-05-15
US	39431061	R3AQF4Y6QP6G5F	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Slow, slow and slow....not much more.	Ok, to be fair, the author won a Booker Prize for this book.  There must be some attributes that I don't see.  A very talented author friend complimented the style - very matter of fact...which it is and which the author has mastered.  As for the plot - there isn't much of one.  Four people come together in a ruined villa in Italy near the end of WWII.  They each are haunted by their experiences of the war and they somehow find solice in each other's company.  A chapter here and there I found very interesting - I thought perhaps the story was picking up.  It quickly fell off into dullness again.  I just don't know how to critique this book beyond my personal opinion that it was a very dull, slow-moving story with brief glimpses of interest and intrigue followed by more dull droning.  I truly skimmed the last 100 pages with little interest.	2005-04-27
US	39431061	R27OH52YH3JD3F	0373802188	87792248	For Camelot's Honor	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Entertainment Value	I had expected this book to be filled with myth and legend and high drama spiced with a nice Authrian love story.  It was all I expected.  While I do not place Zettel among my favorite spinners of historical fiction (Laurence J. Brown, Bernard Cornwell, Parke Godwin to name a few), she definately has her place among my favorites of Arthurian lore and Marion Zimmer Bradley is not bad company to share!<br /><br />Zettel tells the story of Elen and Geraint, the rise and fall (in some cases) rise again of kingdoms and kings, loves and enemies and she weaves it all together in a tapestry of lore that kept me guessing and happily turning pages to find the outcome.  She repeats many ongoing themes and often it becomes a little long - the continual description of Elen's cold, emptiness is the prime example. (You'll have to read the tale to find the reason) Even though repetitions like this did make the book a tiny bit longer than may have been necessay and did cause it to slow in parts, the story is definately strong enough to keep you interested.  Noticeably absent from an Arthurian tale was Arthur, Merlin and most of the court of familiars.  They make minor cameos, but the story didn't really need them and I found their absence refreshing.  Geraint and Elen were strong enough characters to carry the story on their own.<br /><br />  If you want a story of more historical acuracy - stick to Brown.  If you enjoy a little magic and a story that I imagine would rival the bards of old, this is a fun read.	2005-04-23
US	39431061	R28X1S1DDKJSR8	0385512775	155016412	Articles of War: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not my style but a decent read.	I must begin by stating that the minimalistic style of Mr. Arvin's writing is not a particular favorite of mine.  However, I think he has found an exceptional balance between descriptive writing and minimalism without short-changing the reader at all.  \\"Heck\\" is an Iowa farm boy sent to France during WWII (just prior to the Battle of the Bulge).  He's a likeable, yet not particularly loveable character who grapples with leaving the certainty of his life and facing the uncertainty of war.  I thought the graphic depictions of corpses and body parts strewn about and going rather unnoticed was very vivid.  What I liked most however, was the depiction of the countryside in France.  The bombed out buildings, the once fine trappings turned tattered rags on the native population and the struggle of their survival running parallel to and only occassionally intersecting with the soliders' stuggles for life.  Heck is not a brave man, but not a coward either.  I think he was YOUNG man, scared, lonely, aparently poorly trained who did the best he could under the circumstances.  That being said - I suppose that is what all soldiers do in combat - the best they can.  For some that equates to flowery and poetic novels of courage and uncommon valor.  For most, however, it was probably more like the story of Heck.  I found it believable and well-written even if my personal preference would have been for a greater understanding of Heck's relationship to his father and friends back home and I would certainly preferred a different ending.  It left too much unanswered and I think this was the one spot where the author lost focus.  It felt more like a quick wrap to the tale which I didn't particularly care for.  Overall - 4 stars - give it a try.	2005-04-12
US	39431061	RRWD2SQRYXPWG	0312954468	345931989	River God: A Novel of Ancient Egypt (Novels of Ancient Egypt)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Very expertly created - a bit unbelievable at times.	Taita, the slave, tells the story of his life as events unfold in Egypt thousands of years ago.  Through Taita's eyes, we meet Lord Intef - a tyranical ruler, second in command to the Pharaoh.  Taita is the brains behind the operations of Lord Intef, and as a result of Taita's ...well, wholly unbeleivable at times, intellegence and creativity, Lord Intef becomes extremely rich and powerful.  Taita's time is not devoted to work for Intef, however, he is also responsible for the rearing and educating of some young people including Intef's daughter Lostris and a young soldier, Tanus.  The two young people fall madly in love, but because Tanus has no fortune or position, Intef refuses to allow them to wed.  In fact, he plots to remove Tanus as a love interest perminently through some devious methods - some more dangerous than others.  The remainder of the story unfolds through the drama of life on the Nile, the whims of the gods, the battle for power and wealth, the invasion of \\"barbarians\\", the thrill of exploration, and the endurance of love.   It is a sweeping saga and well written and very  imaginative.  The final pages brought tears to my eyes and my only criticism  is that it was a bit long winded and Taita's unequalled intellegence was a bit unbeleiveable and allowed for some easy \\"outs\\" to story predicaments.	2005-04-08
US	39431061	RVRY3G4P3OERH	0440234859	64473411	Losing Julia	Books	5	4	4	N	N	What an exceptional find!	Isn't it lucky that the occassional book on the bookstore shelf is faced out so you can see the cover art?  That is just how I accidently discovered this book.  I read the first page and was hooked.  It is a beautifully written book!  Told from the various perspectives of Patrick Delany a WWI vet,  the author takes us into Patrick's mind and we experience his life through his memories of the war, his time loving Julia, his life in a nursing home in California - along with so very much in between.  What I liked about the book is the way the author pulls you along from one fleeting thought or memory to the next.  It was so true to life - the way your thoughts can change so abruptly - possibly even more so if you are an 80-year-old man with a lot of time on your hands for remembering, regretting, and resloving to the knowledge that your life is nearing an end and that you did the best you could with the time you had.  The story brings with it the brotherhood of soliders at the front along with some grim and graphic details of the carnage of war (a bit reminiscent of the book Bird Song). <br />It also gives you a chance to watch as two people fall in love - and it's beautiful.  The way Patrick notices every small detail of Julia's face, her hands, her eyes.  To have someone love you so profoundly - it was moving. However, as the title indicates, this is a story of losing Julia - which the author tells in a way that is so believable that it was almost painful to read.  This is one of the most emotionally detailed, finely detailed, hauntingly romantic, at times humorous, touching and simply beautifully written books that I've ever had the pleasure to read.  I highly recommend it!	2005-03-25
US	39431061	R2NS4S6YIIPEH8	0449224430	199988513	The Prince and the Pilgrim (Arthurian Saga, Book 5)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Somewhat entertaining - not much substance	I would have given this book only 2 stars except for the fact that I enjoy Arthurian type stories and this was one I found previously untold (shy of Malory's book).  Stewart tells the story of Alexander the Fatherless and the Pretty Pilgrim Alice.  However, the interesting story the book cover promised of Morgan Le Fey persuading Alexander to try and steal the Holy Grail just never developed.  Oh, Morgan is in the story, but the author seems to give up on that plot very quickly and then wraps the story up quickly and neatly with little drama or suspense.  The Grail itself barely gets mentioned until the end of the book and then the author invokes a philosophy of the Grail that she later notes came from a personal friend and not from legend or lore.  Stewart also introduces the Merovingian kings of Gaul into the story but again - the drama and excitement of the four brothers battling for control of the entire kingdom is sorely lacking.  Instead, she wraps it all up in a puts the storyline to bed without really taking advantage of the twists and turns that it could have provided.  So, why three stars for a story I obviously found sugar-coated, far from any historical possibiity and not even exciting enough to rouse Arthur from his throne in the story???  It's a new tale of the Arthurian time period that I had not discovered before outside of Malory.  The book makes somewhat entertaining reading -especially if you like romance and lack of thought provoking substance.  It's sweet and simple and an easy read.  I found her historical notes at the end of the book to be the best part of the entire work.	2005-03-17
US	39431061	R27DMOD0G6LZTH	0060530510	236428143	The Last Kingdom (The Saxon Chronicles Series #1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fabulous!	This book is FABULOUS!  Uhtred is but a young boy when his father takes him to battle against the Danes. His spirit and will endear him to Ragnar the Danish war leader and he thus takes young Uhtred hostage.  That undeniable spirit and will continue to work for Uhtred as he grows from boy to man through the story of this book and experiences the good and bad of both the Danish and English sides of the battle for England.  I liked the description of the Danes and their way of life. It is a side I had not yet explored in my readings of historical England.  I found it fascinating and very believable.  Cornwall does an amazing job of bringing his characters to life.  I felt for Uhtred every step of the way and shared with him his fears, his loves and his losses.  The only other account I had read of Alfred the Great, was dramtically different.  This Alfred is pious and sickly and his wife is a shrew.  I continually found myself hoping Uhtred would chose to remain a Dane and revenge the wrongs done to him.  My only criticism of Cornwall in the past has been his over-done scenic descriptions.  They continue in this book, but the action and the characters over-shadow any complaints and this book cannot pass with fewer than the 5 stars it deserves.  I look very forward to the continuation of this story.	2005-02-20
US	39431061	R3BBKOIUL2PC3K	0747250618	870906807	The Last Templar (A Medieval West Country Mystery)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good entertainment value with a history lesson!	I really liked this book.  The author tells the tale of the fall of the Templars and incorporates this history into a very entertaining mystery.  The characters are vividly described and the crime scenes are equally vivid - a book trait I find necessary in order to become totally absorbed into the storyline.  It's a fast read, but not due to a simple story plot.  I must admit, I had one of the crimes figured out before the end, but the rest left me guessing with plenty of twists and turns before the final outcome.  As a first in a series, this book has done what it should - made me want to read more.	2005-02-13
US	39431061	REXR211ANK1VS	0399150773	349789238	Dragon's Lair (Penman, Sharon Kay)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The best of her mysteries yet	Ms Penman has really developed the character Justin de Quincy beautifully over the three books.  This one, however, ranks as my favorite of the three.  In this book, Justin visits Wales in an effort to find the stolen ransom that had been earmarked to aid in the release of King Richard.  She kept me guessing till the end and she also introduced a couple of new characters, Molly and Bennet who I immediately responded to and hope to find again in the next book.  The relationship between Justin and his father continues to develop very interesting new twists and Claudine makes another appearance which -though brief- has me eager for the next book as well.  If you like mysteries or if you like history- this book is a fun adventure into both.	2005-01-23
US	39431061	R33OVT1ZRH17OQ	0609609629	180759721	The Lady of the Sea (Tristan and Isolde Novels, Book 3)	Books	2	16	19	N	N	Time for the story to stop.	This is the third in the Tristan and Isolde Series by Rosalind Miles and the story is tired.  The first several chapters are a dull recap of the previous parts of the trilogy and do little to pull you into the new book.  When finally the story did liven up and I felt it pulling me along to the next chapter, I was easily 90 pages in already.  Even then, the story is much of the same.  The author offers little new material and seems only to rework her previous ideas.  The same characters are up to their same tactics to keep Tristan and Isolde from being together and being happy. Father Dominion is back to \\"bring Isolde down\\" and the lepers are back too.  Again - same thing - new cover art. The new character of Darath offered some promise as he pledged his sword to Isolde; but I was disappointed that the story line came to an abrupt end and the character never reappeared.  The most interesting part of the book was the opportunity to see the demise of so many characters who have been plodding along for 3 books.   I enjoyed the first book greatly.  The second was also interesting and my heart ached for the star-crossed lovers.  Now, I'm a bit tired of the whole saga and I hope they live happily ever after because this story has been beaten to death.	2005-01-17
US	39431061	R3U9A587908TPM	0679776818	168251186	Birdsong: A Novel of Love and War	Books	5	97	99	N	N	A Riveting Novel	This book entered my world through recommendation from an author friend. I opened it with no previous adventures into the realm of WWI and no knowledge of the author.  I was immediately intrigued and immediately a fan of Sebastian Faulks! I struggle to review this book without telling you the story line.  Therefore, I am not going to tell you an overview of the plot - you need to experience it as it unfolds.  I will, instead, tell you the impact of this novel.  <br />   Mr. Faulks' writing is so intimate that I was almost embarrased during the love scenes as if I had intruded upon the lovers in their throws of passion.  The bitter sweet moments of love found and love lost are feelings that reverberate through time.  They were as agonizing to read as if I was experiencing them myself. As the story moves forward and Stephan is at front lines of WWI, I was again amazed at the detail of the story.  I can scarce believe that Mr. Faulks was not the actually Stephen Wraysford in a previous life.  His vivid depiction of the horrors of war are troubling yet poignont.  The friendships among the men, the shared commonality of their situation, the reality of death and the difficulty they had expressing ANY emotion was painful to read.  You want to reach out to them and rescue them from the danger of death - and equally so from the agony of life.   <br />     Now - flash forward to the 1970s as the generation who experienced the trenches are dying off.   A young woman - about my age - with as little knowledge of the war as I previously had - seeks information about her grandfather.  Her quest leads her to uncover a family secret, a forgotten generation, a personal desire for true love, and the knowledge that life goes on.  1917, 1978 or 2005 - Sebastian Faulks shows that we all desire love, we all struggle to cope with our personal demons, and we all wonder what we will leave the world to remember us by.  This book may be set in the past - but it is truly timeless in its message.   <br />	2005-01-06
US	39431061	R16MQUM2BFYQXR	0520053192	262150018	Edward the Confessor (English Monarchs Series)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Not for the novice historian	Wow - this man knows his history!  If you are a serious historian interested in Edward the Confessor - this is your Bible!  The reading is extremely dry - don't think you'll find more here than the facts, but there are facts galore!  Barlow begins with an indepth look at Edward's background and the background of the political situation in England.  He ends with the impact of Edward during the reign of Henry III and covers literally EVERYTHING in between.  Then for good measure, he adds nearly another 100 pages of appendicies, time lines, maps, tables and illustrations.  I'm very impressed with the author's knowledge of the subject.  I only hold back that last \\"star\\" because I regret that the author didn't make it a bit more \\"friendly\\" to read.  It is dry and moves slowly and is not probably a book that would generate interest in Edward the Confessor so much as it is a book to verify facts for those already interested.  I personally prefer history and historical fiction that can introduce a reader to a subject and make them want to read more.  I'm afraid that his work will be too daunting to many and makes Edward sound extremely dull - which he truly was not.	2004-11-21
US	39431061	R3AT7K0VVTX5H5	B00005XLYK	713091350	The last Englishman; the story of Hereward the Wake	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Poetic prose but a bit idealsitic for truth	I beleive that heroes are often portrayed as larger than life, practically unstoppable, with almost super-human strength of mind, body and character.  Hereward the Wake is described as such in this book.  The author writes beautifully - with truly poetic descriptions that set the tone of this book with great skill.  However, published in the early 1950s I believe the book through the editorial process has become a bit too idealistic.  The novel deals with the tale of Hereward Leofricsson who returns to England after the battle of 1066, to find his homeland occupied by Norman and his countrymen in virtual bondage to their new Norman over-lords.  Many are displaced, more are tortured and killed.  Hereward uses his familiarity of the Lincolnshire fens to launch a guerilla attack against the Normans - who are unable to counter attack because the rebels are protected by the boggy fens which the Normans cannot cross.  Hereward also rescues a Norman lady from an evil Norman lord and the author thus adds another element of drama.  The evil lord becomes a special nemsis because of the threat he presents toward the woman Hereward loves.    Again, the book had only one slow spot that I struggled through, but truly the \\"sticking point\\" with me and the reason I cannot give it 5 stars is that the characters were either \\"too good\\" or \\"too bad\\" to be real.  There has to have been more to the story than just one side of the greater conflict or the other.  An excellent and highly recommended example of an author explaining this internal motivation and internal conflict amongst the backdrop of Hereward's rebellion is \\"Cold Heart, Cruel Hand\\" by Laurence J. Brown.  It's a 5 star book because it DOES offer more to the characters than the idealistic (though beautifully written) portrayals in \\"The Last Englishman\\".  I would be interested to learn if the author's vision was altered by editors who thought the book needed to be \\"nice\\" when it was first released 50 years ago.  There seems tobe little historical fiction about this particular time in English/Norman relations - so if you are interested - read it.  But read \\"Cold Heart, Cruel Hands\\" also and judge for yourself.	2004-11-19
US	39431061	R382Q0NWHR1WEQ	1575668572	106238816	The Dragon Lord's Daughters	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Not bad for a romance novel.	When I purchased this book, I had no idea who Beatrice Small was, or what type of book she normally writes.  I grabbed it because of the story summary on the cover.  The book tells the tale of 3 young women who all descend directly from the bloodline of King Arthur.  The girls Averil, Maia, and Junia each have different mothers and the same father.  Each is described as unique in appearance and as each of them prepare to marry they face their own unique circumstances.  Averil is kidnapped by a young man looking to find a wife with a land dowery; Maia (and here the King Arthur bit came more into play) falls in love with a faceless man in her dreams - refusing all others and chosing to wait for the day he rides through the gates; and Junia who falls in love with a man from a family feuding with the Pendragons for over a century.  Each story line is interesting and the book reads fast and keeps your attention.  However, despite the lean toward historical fiction - and in the case of Maia, the definate sci-fi tilt to the story, this is definately a romance novel.  I must admit that I found the ending a bit sugar coated and some of the love scenes and wording to be more \\"lonely housewife\\" than I would have preferred.  There is one rape scene that I could have lived without and I was not thrilled that the woman in question continued to \\"love\\" the rapist - I think there is no place for any such suggestion in any type of literature, but that's a personal belief - you decide for yourself.  If you want a tale about King Arthur - this is NOT it.  If you want a decent, enjoyable read - it's not a bad choice.  Knowing now that Ms. Small writes romance novels (despite any efforts at an historical twist) I would assume this is the only book of her's I shall read...but it wasn't a bad choice, just a bit predictable perhaps.	2004-11-08
US	39431061	R33Y2833SALG33	0445085118	593057001	The Conquering Family	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Thorough but dated	The title of the book led me to believe that this book would encompass the entire \\"conquering\\" family of Normandy as they became the rulers of England.  However, I was disappointed that the actual conquest was bypassed and the book opens with introduction of the first Plantagenets and not with William the Conqueror as I incorrectly assumed from the title.  The book is very thorough where the author choses to be.  For example, he can hit a few highlights of history and move the story along very rapidly and then suddenly spend page after page on one segment of one chapter of one person's life.  I know I bought the book used, but the original publication date of 1949 and the republication in 1964 seemed obvious in the authors style and tone.  I think the book is very informative, and if you are interested in the Plantagenets, it is something you'd enjoy.  Just be aware of the \\"late\\" start of the book.  The actual Conquest is over before this book begins.	2004-11-01
US	39431061	R1HJB0TEUJGZJT	0670696013	499822874	1066: Year of the Conquest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good history always makes a good story!	I liked this book.  The author covers the events preceeding 1066 and the Battle of Hastings, starting with a great introduction that really brings the reader an understanding of the social and politcal structure in England at that time.  Much of the writings about this historic year are centered around the wealthy land owners and the ruling class.  This introduction gives you a much better understanding of what life was like for the common man...and woman though little written evidence for the life of women seems to be available.  Once you are firmly rooted in the world of 11th Century England, the author takes us to the death of King Edward the Confessor and his connection to the Godwin family.  Following chapters deal in great detail with the areas and people who are heading toward the collision course that was the year of 1066.  I thought the story was well-strung together and the author avoided jumping ahead to the climax of the story and focussed on truly educating the reader on the fine details behind one of the most exciting years in history.  I only withhold that last possible star because I personally reserve that for books that I feel are beyond amazing.  This is an excellent book - but only 4 stars on my personal scale.  You can't go wrong with this book if you like history - good history always makes an interesting story...even when all of the information is factual.	2004-10-27
US	39431061	R1EU5ZJG23R9J1	0854491848	7837176	Gaveston	Books	1	4	17	N	N	Pornography - let's call this book what it is.	This book is not published by Heretic - it's published by the Gay Men's Press.  That certainly is not something that would have prevented me from buying the book.  I totally understood the subject matter to be the homosexual lover of King Edward II of England.  However, this author has taken the book beyond historical fiction, beyond romance and has created a book filled with child molestation, child pornography and graphic homosexual pornography.  The book is mis-represented on the web site by the media house and I have complained to Amazon.  Misrepresenting the publisher is only the tip of the iceberg on this book.  Buyer beware - this book is filled with one graphic sexual encounter after another - none of which are necessary for the underlying story.  The author could have taken an interesting subject - homosexuality at a time when that was a crime punishable by being burnt at the stake  - and created a wonderful historical fiction - even a romance.  Instead he has created a disgusting, worthless piece of pronographic filth and then allowed his media house to describe it to you as something otherwise so he can sell books.  I would give this NO stars if that were an option.  As it is - it's trash.	2004-10-26
US	39431061	R2Z4AHK3NBE70P	1586900129	816937302	Cold Heart, Cruel Hand: A Novel Of Hereward The Wake and The Fen Rebellion of 1070-1071	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the best books ever!	I was delighted with Mr. Brown's first book, Housecarle.  I eagerly ordered this second book and if I could give it 50 stars I would.  I dare say it is even better than the first - which was marvelous itself!   Mr. Brown picks up the story of Ranulf, the only surviving Housecarle from King Harold's last stand in 1066, as he and his wife and young son struggle against the terrible Norman slaughter in York.  Against all odds, they survive and chance brings them to the camp of Hereward the Wake.  Hereward was once a nobleman himself, but displaced when William the Conqueror awarded his lands to a Norman lord and killed his only brother.  Hereward had been away fighting a forgein war and did not return in time to fight in 1066.  He does however put up a resistance that is inspiring, thrilling and makes a story you won't want to put down!   Ranulf's personal struggle against survivor's guilt and his single-minded desire to protect his young family are equally thrilling and inspiring.  Mr. Brown has created characters on the Norman side that are both vividly terrifying - the kind you love to hate, and also honorable - the kind you'd love to have known.  Without giving away the story - which simply pulls you enthusiastically from page to page,  I will say that Mr. Brown has taken a period of English history and masterfully captured the political, military and personal struggles that must certainly have happened much as he has imagined.  I reached the last page and could have started it over again immediately.  I am not ready to be finished with these characters and I desperately hope that the story has not yet come to an end.  BUY THIS BOOK!!!!!  You will be thrilled that you did!	2004-10-22
US	39431061	R2RQPYWGSPGA97	0449243907	750793361	The Passionate Enemies	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Not a stong end to the trilogy	I'm not blaming Jean Plaidy for the weak subject matter in this book.  King Stephan was just not terribly interesting and by what this book tells me, he was a wishy-washy king.  If that is true to historical fact, there probably wasn't much to work with. <br />The book is much more of a romance novel and the cover art on my copy should have warned me.  The book deals with the usurption of the crown of England by King Henry I's nephew - Stephan.  The king adored this particular nephew and he had basically been raised in England since he was 12 and thought of himself as English.  To Stephan's credit, he was the grandson of William the Conqueror and so was a direct decendant to the throne.  In fact, he probably had as much right to it as Henry's children after Henry threw his eldest brother (Robert) in prison and took the crown after the VERY suspicious death of his other brother (King William Rufus).  When there is no direct male heir to follow Henry, (no legitimate heir that is), he asks that an oath of fealty be sworn to his daughter Matilda - recently widowed and returned from Germany as an Empress.  Matilda is a story in herself.  She's a direct contrast in personality to Stephan but somehow the two have a driving passion for each other that put them each into circumstances that any sane person could easily have avoided- especially Stephan - he's really a weakling. <br />I liked Stephan in the 2nd book of this trilogy when he was introduced, but reading this book, his character is spine-less and just dumb in my opinion.  The truly inspiring part of this book is the OTHER Matilda - Stephan's wife.  She is the stuff of which rulers are made and stories become legends.  I was disappointed that she was not a more developed part of this story.  The other interesting part is how the Norman rule in England comes to an end and the Plantagenet rule begins.  Again - it seems to be mainly a result of spine-less Stephan, but read it for yourself.  It is a decent book, but nowhere near the 4 stars I gave to the second book in the series and definately no where near the 5 stars I gave the first book.  I'm just optimistically looking at this (short) book as the segway into the Plantagenet series also by Jean Plaidy where I'm sure the story must heat up again with Henry II and Eleanor of Aquataine!	2004-10-12
US	39431061	R3NR0MMAT8KUWQ	0449243184	98555899	The Lion of Justice (Norman)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Book two and my second choice so far.	Jean Plaidy continues her Norman Trilogy with The Lion of Justice.  The title would lead you to believe that the book is solely about Henry I, but the beginning of the book is mostly about William the Conqueror's other (surviving) sons Robert of Normandy and William Ruffus.  The book also gives some background information as to the situation in Scotland and the Saxon Athelings who had claim to the throne of England prior to the Norman Conquest in 1066.  The book takes off seamlessly from the first in the trilogy (The Bastard King) which makes the author's comparissons and references back to William the Conqueror a welcome yet not over-done part of the story.  The best part of the book, however, does deal with the Henry I and his taking of the crown of England following the death of his brother.  I was a bit disappointed that the death of Rufus was not further explored.  It was obviously shrouded in mystery and probably was a murder, but that story falls away and is really not mentioned in any great detail again.   There is a good accounting of Henry's wife, Matilda (formerly called Edith) and you become very familiar with the King's daughter (the Empress Matilda) and his nephew (Stephen).   I hate to say that Henry I was simply not as interesting as William the Conqueror, but that's really how I saw the story.  This seems more of a segway into the final book and less of a stand-alone thrilling tale like the Bastard King.  The writing is outstanding and the details are vivid.  The characters are reasonably well-developed an interesting but just not as exciting as the cast centered around 1066.  That is the only reason this book gets only 4 stars from me - the topic just lacks something in comparisson to the first book.	2004-10-04
US	39431061	R2FAWLJMEY4L94	0449242730	722781837	The Bastard King	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The full story	So many books about William the Conqueror get side-tracked into the tale of Harold II of England.  This book certainly mentions their meeting and the Battle of Hastings in 1066, but it was really a much fuller accounting of William's life than just the one conquest of England.  This book begins with William as a child and although there were some differences in this author's account (such as his mother's name, who actually cared for him as a fugitive youth, etc.) the tale was well portrayed.  The book becomes it's best, however, when the author reaches his marriage with Matilda of Flanders - a strong woman for a strong man and then some!  Their lives together and love for each other is a wonderful background tale that supports the more commonly known image of William as a ruler and warrior.   What I liked best about this book was the deep involvment of their children in the story.  The author brings us through to their adulthood and through the deaths of both Matilda and William and sets the stage for the second book in the trilogy beautifully.  I had not had much interest in William Rufus, Robert or Henry (William's sons) until I read this book.  I immediately started book #2 (Heart of the Lion) and I can tell you that the story continues seemlessly.  If you are interested in 1066, if you like English, Norman or French history, if you are interested in strong military leaders or strong women, or if you are just looking for a fascinating tale about a man that seemed (then as now) larger than life - this is a fantastic book for all of the above!  I think today's publishers are crazy for beginning the re-publication of Ms. Plaidy's work by starting with the Tudor series.  Take us back to whence it began - and that's the Norman Trilogy!	2004-10-01
US	39431061	RQZ8US8BG3QTL	0850529530	162970260	1066: The Battles of York, Stamford Bridge and Hastings (Battleground Britain)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	The best historical over view of 1066 yet.	The author does an amazing job in this book of 170 pages.  He takes 4 historical characters who are each unbelievably interesting (Harold Godwinsson, Tostig Godwinsson, Harald Hardrada, and William of Normandy) along with 3 major battles (York, Stamford Bridge and Hastings) and folds it all together with the other important events and characters at the time and comes out with a winner of a book!!! <br /> <br />Even if you know little about the year 1066 (which the author correctly points out is sorely neglected in history education), this will help you to TRULY understand it and will leave you hungry for more about the story.  I've read no fewer than 10 books about the year and the characters involved and still this book put it all into perspective for me.  The diagrams and photos of the actual sites (overlayed with which armies were where) was a fantastic visual reference that I had been missing until now.  He also talks about the Bayeux Tapistry in amazing detail.  You leave this book able to picture how they dressed, how they were armed, where things took place and how the \\"historians\\" of the time captured the tale (along with notes of probable bias).  There was no right or wrong discussed - just what likely happened and why it likely happened.  This is one of the true \\"what if's\\" of history.  At any moment one simple change of fate - the weather, a word, where someone stood in battle - so much of English history would be dramatically different.  I'm a lover of all things about Harold Godwinsson.  There's something moving about him - even all of these years later.  But despite that bias on my part - I think the book was as acurate as possible, as thorough as possible and yet enjoyably short and organized and to the point.  This is a must have for anyone who enjoys a true story that's really better than any fiction out there.	2004-09-22
US	39431061	R31LYIO1AN54BQ	0312323964	359950949	The Great Scot: A Novel of Robert the Bruce, Scotland's Legendary Warrior King	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Too much left untold	If you let the first 5 chapters influence you - you won't finish this book.  They were bad.  After that the story finally picked up and the characters becames interesting enough to finish.  I think that this is a first look at Robert the Bruce --and agree with the other reviewer that the man has been unjustly over-shadowed by William Wallace thanks to the movie Braveheart.  However, that probably happened because there wasn't a story exciting enough about Robert the Bruce to turn it into a movie...this one isn't either. <br /> <br />What's good about it - the character holds an interesting place in history.  There are battle references, there is court intrigue, there are murders and kidnappings and mysterious illnesses and all of the things that keep the story interesting so you plod on.  It is a fast read and a simple read. <br /> <br />What didn't I like?  Robert suffers from a strange malady that appears from time to time and threatens his life.  However, the author discusses it almost as though it were unimportant.  You never do find out what it might have been.  Also - he paints Edward Bruce as much more of a military tactician and the battles are less than vividly portrayed.   He also makes it very clear that Robert the Bruce was a womanizer who had mistresses slug out all over Scotland and was more than ready to use them for food, money and protection ...along with other things...when and ONLY when it was convenient to him.  He supposedly loved only one woman in his life....yeah right.  If anything this makes him less than valiant and noble in my opinion and the book would have been better with fewer women falling into his bed at every turn -- history certainly remembers him for deeds far more interesting. <br /> <br /> Lastly, the author obviously has a good grasp on languages.  However, he uses it sporadically and his timing is bad.  The characters can go on for pages with all of their conversations recounted in English for the reader.  Then suddenly when avery important speech is made the author writes it in some phonetic form of Scots and it stops ALL of the momentum he has built to that moment.  You slow down and try to figure out what the speech even was and then suddenly everyone is speaking English again and the story goes on.  However, the author does this not only in Scots, but French and Latin as well.  There is no rhyme or reason as to which lines of which conversations must suddenly appear in another language - but I think it was a bad attempt to show off his linguistic skills and that it was NOT an enhancement for the story.    <br /> <br />I understand it is his first work of fiction.  It's not terrible but it's certainly not a 5 star book. I won't keep my copy - it's in the library donation box now.  I also wouldn't recommend it to anyone.  If you like the subject matter - give it a whirl but wait for the paperback price. If you don't - this probably won't make you want to read more about Robert Bruce.  It's been suggested I try works by Nigel Tranter instead and that's what I intend to do.	2004-09-22
US	39431061	R105JWQHD93FOB	0743498356	336718558	The Way of King Arthur: The True Story of King Arthur and His Knights of the Round Table (Adventures in History)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Simple but well done	In this book the author searches for the beginnings of the King Arthur legend and trys to determine if there is any actual historical basis for the character of Arthur himself.   The book is short - only a bit more than 100 pages and my copy is in what looks to be 14 point type - so BIG PRINT.  It reads VERY fast.  I finished it on a flight from Minneapolis to Detroit with time to spare. <br /> <br />I'm a HUGE King Arthur fan and I found myself very intrigued.  However, don't let this be your only reference into the legend - there are many many versions of the legend (as the author freely admits).  If you have read an Arthurian legend or two and wonder about the history of the tale - this will quickly turn you onto other sources for further research.  If you are well versed in the legend already - look for something more in-depth.  This is really for an Arthurian beginner.	2004-09-22
US	39431061	R17ENCOYZ9HXXM	0701109742	685952527	Golden Warrior	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good but not great	This was a very detailed and flowery retelling of the battle for England in 1066.  The cast of regulars is all included - Harold Godwinsson, his brothers, mother and sister, Edith Swan-neck, Aldyth and her brothers along with the entire Norman roster under William the Conqueror.    Is the book good - absolutely. Is it great - no - not in comparisson to Housecarle by Laurence J. Brown or Gildenford and the trilogy by Valary Anand.  I found the book a bit of a slow read.  The language is in a more dated style and just didn't flow well.  Also, the author re-tells details over and over and over.  If I had to read one more time about the broken oath between Harold and William I would have packed the book away. I find it a bit insulting for an author to feel it's necessary to tell the reader the same thing incessantly.  I GET IT ALREADY!!!  Was the book thorough - definatley - perhaps longer than necessary.  Good points - I liked the ending.  It made me think much better of William and Willaim Mallet than the endings of other books on the saga.  I also liked strong references about Harolds early illness and William's visions - these men both believed God was on their side.  It's hard to say who was right or wrong - which is perhaps why the \\"what ifs\\" of this story never cease to thrill me.	2004-09-12
US	39431061	RJBAAP4V3VCOT	1586900048	78893144	Housecarl	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A must read for fans of Harold II	This story of Harold II and the Battle of Hastings is told from the perspective of one of the king's housecarls (fighting men with sworn loyalty to the king to fight for him till their deaths).  Ranulf has spent his life fighting and most of the book deals with the nature of the housecarl position in 11th century England.  A tiny bit of romance is added to the story, but only to the effect that it humanized Ranulf.  He has sworn to fight to the death - but now has someone else for whom to live.  Other housecarls are also introduced - each with a personal story that, again, humanizes the men behind the shield wall.  So many books and movies have amazing battle scenes.  You watch the \\"many\\" fight and die but the story hinges almost exclusively around one key figure and it's his life or death that intrigues...no one else really matters.  Laurence Brown has given you characters (however fictional) that help you to grasp the battle from the perspective of the fighting man.  Naturally, you get a great deal of story dealing with Harold, William, Edith and all of the 1066 regulars.  One noticeable absence was Aldith (his legally wedded queen).  I enjoyed the deletion from the story.  I think that the love triangle often overshadows the true leader and military tactician that was King Harold II of England	2004-08-17
US	39431061	R2LJRV1HOSPVSX	B00005VZLF	334248836	Harold was my king	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting Perspective	Edmumd Edmundson is but 12 years old when the story begins.  He is in service to Earl Harold Godwinsson at the time of his imprisonment and forced oath of loyalty to Duke William of Normandy.  With a young boy's idealism, he tells his impression of King Eward the Confessor, Harold (to be King Harold II) and Duke William (to be King William the Conqueror) along with others such as Hereward (one of the last English hold outs against Norman rule), Harold's traitor brother Tostig and Duke William's many children.  As Norman rule takes over England, Edumund is stripped of his holdings because he refuses to swear allegience to William the Conqueror.  However, as he idealisitically holds to his oath of loyalty to Harold, he sees the gradual merging of two nations into a new England.  I was a bit bored at the beginning, found great interest as he spoke of his life after land and titles had been removed and then found the ending a bit predictable although very enjoyable.  What I liked best, was Edmund's perception of King William's family.  He \\"knew\\" the King's children as peers and then as pawns to their father's game of power.  It was a side of the story that I had really not discovered before and it has kindled some interest in reading more about the heirs of William the Conqueror.  I also greatly enjoyed the \\"Last Words\\" section at the end when the author really wrapped up the story beyond just the fictional story ending.  It really rounded out the tale and was a valuable piece of the story.	2004-08-15
US	39431061	R1VEHPET1LMK0D	0380810646	695572073	Lord of Sunset	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant!	I own several works by Parke Godwin, but honestly had them placed low on my reading list.  Finally, after being motivated by the Valerie Anand trilogy centered around 1066, I delved into this book.  WHY DID I WAIT SO LONG?!!  Parke Godwin is a masterful story teller.  Far from the typical one-sided account of a story, Mr. Godwin takes the reader from one character's perspective to another - told in that character's voice.  He brillantly shows his skill by incorporating not only the perspective of the main character, Harold II, but includes the perspectives of Edith (his wife), William the Confessor, Botulf (a servant), William of Normandy, Tostig(his brother), his sister and more.  Each one weaves seamlessly into the next so that the story continues to flow and yet separates just enough for you to anxiously await the author's next attempt at that character's telling.  It is truly one of the very best books I've read and I'll never part with my copy.  RARELY do I read books a second time - this one I will!!!	2004-07-25
US	39431061	R3JF6P1SR54NUP	0684176297	529734886	The Disputed Crown	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The weakest of the triology	I read all three books in this trilogy and this was the weakest.  For those of you who can't live without an end to the story - here it is - but as you can see by the used prices, it doesn't come cheap.  I coughed up $58 for my copy used and I'm not sure it was worth it.  I loved the book - but it was not the best of the three.  I actually preferred book 2 of them all.<BR>This book does bring you through life in England under the rule of William the Conqueror and it isn't all pretty like some books which rave about his leadership.  It does continue with Brand and Odi and some others familiar from the previous books as well as introducing some new characters.  The new ones just weren't as interesting to me and I really didn't care what happened to them.  I was very disappointed that this fictional account did not even speculate what happened to the family of Godwin.  I wanted to hear a tale that perhaps Harold's legacy did live on and that the family I had followed for 2 books survived in some way.  If that is what you also hope to find - forget it.  It isn't here.	2004-07-07
US	39431061	R35WKOPQ4XSLJD	0312092938	678091631	Fortune's Knave: The Making of William the Conqueror : A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The making of a king	Fortune's Knave begins when William of Normandy is 8 years old.  The bastard son of Duke Robert and his peasant lover, William is adored by the Duke's men and is growing up a bit oblivious to the turmoil surrounding his very existance.  His father leaves on a quest to the Holy Land and intends to return and marry his lover to make William the legitimate heir to the duchy.  When Robert dies, William and his amazingly intellegent and strong-willed mother begin a quest of their own - to keep William alive to succeed his father as Duke of Normandy.<br />  The book begins fairly well, but the true excitement begins when William first flees for his life - to live among the peasants and wait for the time to make his survival known.<br />  As William grows you are introduced to a cast of characters vying for the dukedom...pay attention to the family tree generously provided by the author - it will help you sort out the similar names and claims.  You will also meet Matilda of Flanders - an interesting character herself.  William certainly had a way of attaching himself to amazing women.<br />  I knew going in that the book was only about the making of a conqueror - and it does leave you far short of the entire tale of William's life and conquests.  For further reading on this topic, I highly recommend the trilogy by Valerie Anand - beginning with Gildenford and ending with the Disputed Crown.	2004-06-20
US	39431061	R31FMH4WL2DSD2	014200183X	753464776	Testimony of an Irish Slave Girl	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting but slow	This book deals with the story of an Irish woman, Cot, who was kidnapped at age 10 in Galway, Ireland and transported as an indentured servant to Barbados.  The story begins as she is testifying to an English investigator as to her part in a slave uprising in 1675.  With her remaining shreds of dignity, she insists on telling the entire story of her servitude - which really amounted to nothing short of slavery in all its horror.  I found the Preface and Epilogue very interesting having been previously unaware of the Irish slave trafficing (whatever nice &quot;indentured servitude&quot; name the English of the time gave it).  My family, being of Irish decent, has long realized that throughout history the Irish were treated horribly  - first as pagans, then as Catholics and the treatment followed them to America as immigrants.  I had no idea of this period of slavery in the 17th century as England pushed it colonial ways across the world.   <BR>    While I did find the book interesting, horrifying, and even sadly sweet at points...I also found it a bit flowery and long winded in areas.  I imagine the author made the right choice in explaining things in great detail because of the unusual subject matter.  However, the interrigator often asks Cot to hurry up and get to the point and I found myself agreeing with him.<BR>     It's a quick read - 200 pages.  If you are interested in history, the Irish or the African slave trade, English colonization, sugarcane plantations or the tropics - you'll find something here to satisfy you.  If you are looking for pure entertainment - this topic is too awful for that - look elsewhere.	2004-05-25
US	39431061	RGG63A00TA551	070112508X	10642273	The Norman Pretender	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This book has it ALL!	BUY THIS BOOK!  Anand weave a remarkable story and tells the tale of the search for an heir upon the death of Edward the Confessor.  Harold, Earl of Wessex and brother to the Queen, or William, Duke of Normandy and originally named heir... who should be the rightful king of England when Edward dies?  Well, just to keep it intersting there is the long lost cousin, the bi-polar younger brother of Harold (Tostig), and the Viking leader Harold Hardrada to contend with also.  In a story almost too good to be true, it is remarkable to realize that it is true...or at least based on historical fact.  As for Anand's ability to stick to history - well, it's commendable.  Certainly, there are characters who have no known historical basis, but they are created to be as realistic as possible and only help to make the story flow.  Brand Woodcutter is back from the extraordinary first book  (Gildenford) along with several other memorable personas.  I was lucky enough to get this book before the few remaining used book dealers realized the treasure they held - and jacked up the price unreasonably.  However, if you can find a dealer who appreciates this book for the story it tells and is willing to part with their copy - BUY IT.  Personally, I will not part with mine - I know I'll enjoy it again in years to come.  Any publishers reading this - you are OUT OF YOUR MINDS if you don't bring this book out in print again.	2004-05-23
US	39431061	R1W409NDPLJFJ9	0345455681	479109259	London: The Novel	Books	1	5	23	N	N	38 pages was my limit - BORING!!!	The 800+ pages of this book did not deter me at all.  I read Sarum and liked it.  It was not perfect, but it was good enough for me to seek out this author again.  London, however, was a different matter.  I read - DRAGGED - myself through the first 38 pages and found the initial characters so completely boring that I could have cared less what became of them.  My normal rule is 100+ before making a decision to close a book, and I think I've only ever closed 1 or 2.  This one is now added to that short list.  In fairness, it may get better - it may have turned out to be a thrilling, moving piece of literary work.  Unfortunately, the beginning was SO bad that I don't even care if it gets better.  I not only closed it - I donated it to the library.  Maybe an nice insomniac will find it helpful.	2004-05-19
US	39431061	R2N9QSSOHZAR20	1400050413	981365245	Maid Marian: A Novel	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A bit of a wandering tale	This started out to be a good book - an historical biography of Maid Marian aka lover/wife of of Robin Hood.  I guess I had anticipated it to be a bit more of just that...the story of her life before she met the famed outlaw and their relationship together peppered with her impression of him/his life/ his outlaw ways etc.  That IS how it began.  How it ended was as a second-rate murder mystery with Robin Hood and Maid Marian playing more of a role as undercover detectives than star-crossed lovers from different social spectrums.  It was not terrible - but I felt like the author lost her way and suddenly 200 pages into the book had to find a way to end it.	2004-04-28
US	39431061	R1MO0WG5Z02NYJ	068414896X	703525621	Gildenford	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Exceptional!	I find it difficult to locate books on the era of English history between the 9th and 11th centuries.  I've read some good ones but Gildenford was exceptional.  The story is based on the ruling family of England and the changing succession during the early 11th century prior to William the Conqueror taking the throne in 1066.  It also deals heavily with the rise of the Earl of Wessex and his contribution to the unease surrounding the throne.  Told primarily from the view of Brand Woodcutter - a peasant pulled into the controversy by serving in the Earl's household - it also includes great glimpses into the lives of the ruling families, a local merchant family and members of the religious community.  They were turbulent times where nothing was simple - a concept Brand wrestles with having come from a simple farm life and now being embroiled quite directly in the intrigues of court life and the oath of loyalty he has sworn.  <br />I can't tell you how well-written this book is.  Pick it up at your first opportunity - even decent used copies are getting harder to find. While you're at it, get the 2nd and 3rd books in the series as well - I did and have no regrets!!!	2004-04-23
US	39431061	R26MN6VJ0SAJ5Q	0345441443	44326597	Cruel as the Grave	Books	4	30	32	N	N	The other reviews are unfair	No this is not the same quality of novel as Penman's brilliant historical fiction.  But this is also 200 pages and a mystery.  I think the other reviewers are comparing apples and oranges and unfairly judging this book.  This is remarkably better than The Queen's Man.  I must admit I did not solve that mystery, but neither did the author.  The ending of that book was a cheap way out of a knot into which the story had been wound.  This book was much more logical. The clues where there and although I had early suspiscions of the ultimate culprit, it kept me intersted to the end.  The mystery in this case evolves separately from the intrigue at court - so there are really two simultaneous situations for Justin to juggle.  It is NOT 1000 pages of brilliant fiction - but it is a fun, quick-read mystery set in 1193.  Take it for what it is and you'll enjoy it.	2004-04-03
US	39431061	R492EA0EUK35C	0373802048	119127880	In Camelot's Shadow	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A FRESH APPROACH!	I've read as many versions of the Arthurian legend as I can find.  While normally, I'm less interested in the story when surrounded by heavy fantasy, I found Zettel's approach refreshing and interesting.  The story focuses on Risa - a young woman promised by her father into slavery to a dark wizzard.  Attempting to escape her fate, she stumbles into the gallant hands of Sir Gawain.  The remainder of the book revolves around their story - her desperate attempt to remain free of the wizzard and Gawain's struggle against propriety and social class restrictions to find true love.  What I really liked about the book was the introduction of fresh new characters and situations.  Yes, Arthur and Guenevere are in the story -barely.  Yes Lancelot is mentioned - in passing.  It is NOT the typical fly by night book reiterating the traditional story of Camelot.  I liked it despite my normal preference for more historical strength and fewer fantastic aspects.  I eagerly await the 2005 release of the sequel.	2004-03-24
US	39431061	R1KUK2R223F667	0609810219	495849844	Mary, Queen of France: The Tudor Princesses	Books	5	38	39	N	N	If only she'd been Queen of England!	This is the second book by Jean Plaidy I've recently read; and it far surpassed &quot;The Thistle and the Rose&quot; though I enjoyed that book as well.  I guess it's the subject matter that I found more interesting.  Mary, the younger sister of King Henry VIII, was exuberant and determined and deeply in love.  The story follows her through they typical political betrothal, an eventual wedding to a sick old man and the turmoil of her brother's court...all while she single-mindedly seeks only to love one man.  I hung on every word, hoping for her happiness and admiring her for how bravely she faced her brother during his decent into apparent power-crazed madness.  As the book closed, I could only imagine what great things history would have recorded of the Tudor court had Mary been the Queen of England and not simply a secondary figure in King Henry VIII's court.	2004-03-08
US	39431061	R3QZL1N3XVJP41	0575603259	676203076	The Enchantresses	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Readable and forgetable	The book centers around the triplet daughters of the Dutchcess Ygraine the Duke of Cornwall. Morgause, Vivian and Morgan are all distinctly different in appearance and personality.  Most of the book follows their evolution from babies until Morgan becomes the embodiment of evil, Morgause becomes Morgan's lackey, and Vivian becomes the Lady of the Lake.  Most of the story focuses on Vivian who resists the lure of evil and although mystically empowered uses the powers only for good.  Morgan is less developed and Morgause is really overshadowed and the story ends with little known of her other than her instrumental tampering with Ygraine and Uther and ultimately with Arthur.  Truly, this is not an exceptional retelling of the story.  It's a very short book and a fast read.  If, like me, you simply devour anything and everything Arthurian, it is worth having under your reading belt.  If you are not familiar with the Arthurian legends and the primary characters, this is not where I'd suggest you begin.  I would strongly suggest the Mists of Avalon (for the mystic side of the story and a look at the women of the legend) or the Bernard Cornwell triology (for what is more historically founded) before this book.	2004-03-08
US	39431061	R3H0PFB3HGNTAM	0380019582	66901259	King Arthur's Daughter	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting new twist to the tale	This was my first venture into a tale about King Arthur and Queen Guenevere having had a daughter.  Ursulet was a young girl at the fall of Camelot.  Fearing for her safety, Guenevere sent her to a convent.  When Arthur was &quot;killed&quot;, and Guenevere died, Ursulet seemed to forget her identity.  As the Saxons began to overrun the countryside, the convent was sacked and Ursulet fled into the night.   Enter Ambroise - a young knight with a very stately family history stretching back to King Lot.  With the very few remnets of the Round Table Knights and those loyal to Arthur and his true heir, Ambroise sets out to find Ursulet and intsall her on her rightful throne.  <BR>     The story introduces a new batch of characters that I found refreshing and interesting if not terribly well developed in this book.  I have not read Chapman's other books in her Arthurian tales, and therefore, I may have missed some of the character development that I think the story lacked.  <BR>     My favorite part - the look at King Arthur.  Chapman takes us to where he rests and we hear again the voice of Merlin telling us that King Arthur truly did not die but lives on to this day and how that is Ursulet's true destiny.	2004-03-04
US	39431061	R2PBV0RG87LI7W	0609810227	628173460	The Thistle and the Rose: The Tudor Princesses	Books	4	46	48	N	N	Historical yet Entertaining	Prior to reading this book, Henry VIII's sister Margaret Tudor was an individual that I knew nothing about.  It is easy to see why she has been overshadowed by the engaging history of her younger brother - but unjustly so.  Married at 12 to a MUCH older man and sent away from her sheltered life to a strange country would frighten the best of young girls - not Margaret.  She relished the idea of the adventure and the passion of a marriage she imagined would be perfect.  The story also gives a wonderful depiction of James IV of Scotland - a likeable yet philandering man who I believed loved Margaret and his country...and just about any other pretty woman he ran across.<br />True to Tudor history, Margaret suffers the deaths of several children only to be widowed at a tender age and left as a foreign queen desperately seeking to keep her 17 month old son safe to one day become James V.  Like her more famous brother, she, too,is ruled by nearly uncontrollable passion - though unlike her brother she longs for true love and the fidelity that her first husband was unable to provide.<br />Political turmoil, religious beliefs and the ever present recollection of her two uncles' mysterious disappearances from the Tower of London only add to her strife.<br />The author does an admirable job of bringing to life a woman who deserves a place in history along side her younger brother - only I believe a more honorable place.	2004-02-29
US	39431061	RYUP4I3LLY85T	1570627193	159972157	Confessions of a Pagan Nun	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unexpected Pleasure	I began the story of Gwynneve with little expectation of what the story may hold.  I honestly picked it up at the book store because I have been to Ireland and the photo of the clochan caught my eye.  I was thrilled to find the story quite captivating.  Although the first couple of pages didn't thrill me, I am delighted that I pressed on.  The author writes in a simple style, however, the simplicity of the language holds the beauty of the story.  In her simple, small view of the world around her, Gwynneve recites the story of her simple life...a woman raised pagen...trained as a druid and scribe...&quot;converted&quot; to a Christianity.  She experiences life and death, love and loss, and stuggles as the world around her changes.  The end of the story is so moving, I actually read the last paragraph twice.  I was outraged and saddened.  Then I sat back and contemplated who were the truly God-less ones in her tale...the pagans or the Christians???	2004-02-20
US	39431061	R2N2PA4XZXGKXN	0345456505	163524953	Prince of Dreams: A Tale of Tristan and Essylte	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Heart-wrenching	The tale of Tristan and Essylte - a beautiful but tragic love story.  This is sort of the Romeo and Juliet of ancient Briton.<BR>I know the story mainly from the books by R. Miles - but Nancy McKenzie has a style of writing that is second-to-none.  She spins a new twist on the story and ties it beautifully to her earilier book \\"Grail Prince\\".    I couldn't put this down - the descriptions of their feelings for each other - their love - their desperation - their heart-wrenching separations and breath-taking reunions...McKenzie takes you there.  You feel it with them and if you've ever been in love you feel it with every beautifully woven detail of the story.  McKenzie continues to craft masterful works centered around the Arthurian legends and this one certainly did not disappoint!	2004-02-17
US	39431061	R3TCL5HJKOAIPF	0440235952	873603222	The Queene's Cure (Elizabeth I Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Terrible	I really tried.  The premise interested me - Queen Elizabeth's court - someone terrorizing the queen - the appearance of dead a dead body in her private garden -a mystery waiting to be solved.<BR>At page 164 I gave up and this one is in the donation box.<BR>The story involved a load of uninteresting characters - most especially Meg or Sarah or whatever each character wanted to call her.  I new the answer to the mystery after the introduction of characters in the first few pages.  Why it took the author 350 pages to tell this tale is simple...poor writing.<BR>She tried to string you along with a variety of likely criminals, but the story was just too obvious - and all that happened subsequently was just too boring and/or totally unbelievable.  If you want a good mystery - this is not it.<BR>If you want a good historical fiction - this is not it.  I would suggest something by Sharan Kay Penman or Rosalyn Miles if you want this era.	2004-02-06
US	39431061	R2A64ENZRH19WD	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A book of wonders!	The cover caught my attention at the aiport when I noticed the much smaller subtitle \\"A Novel of the Plague\\".  What I discovered was a true treasure.  Anna lives life in a small relatively isolated village in England during the infamous plague year of 1666.  The novel is voiced from her perspective as her village of 300 souls is wracked with not only the plague but the emotions, psychologies, and economics that traveled hand in hand with the dreaded disease.  To look upon such a year of loss and devistation with anything but sorrow would be difficult.  But Anna goes even further to find it a year of discovery, learning and growth.  This book is sad in places, a bit gory in some places, but inspiring throughout.  The author is to be commended for this fine piece of writing and it is a book I highly recommend!	2004-02-02
US	39431061	RW88J6NU4JIHX	0684849690	231481016	The Secret Diary of Anne Boleyn	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Quick read and good story	I selected this book looking for a quick read on a short flight.<BR>I am pleased to say that this book kept me quite entertained and I now find a new interest in Tudor history.  <br />The story goes on a bit long with the political this and that between the church and government...probably more than Anne Boleyn would have really put into her diary...but it kept the situation in perspective.  <br />I would say that this is certainly not die-hard history, but if you want an introductory look into Anne Boleyn, Elizabeth I, or Henry XIII this would be a good start.	2004-01-29
US	39431061	RRRFKB0L87EH9	0446607231	554232454	The Temple and the Stone	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Periods of drama and long lapses of boredom	I can make this one quick...interesting idea...too long...horrible ending.<br />I like the new perspective of William Wallace, but he doesn't enter the story until about 250 pages have dragged by.  There are some exciting glimpses into &quot;dark&quot; characters and mystery but they are few and far between.  The authors involve FAR too much conversation between characters and they constantly rehash the same things over and over and over.  Chapter 35 was the true end of the story - great climatic drama.  Chapter 36 was so incredibly dull that I skimmed it, read the epilogue and gladly put this book away!  Not a keeper and not one I would recommend.  Enough to keep you trying to find redeeming value and a sorry disappointment for your efforts.	2004-01-24
US	39431061	R2222ZC4T1LQ60	0345417186	522364299	The Queen's Man: A Medieval Mystery (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A bit of a let down	I'm not normally a mystery reader.  Perhaps I was expecting too much.  I liked this book for the author's wonderful depiction of medieval society and the main character Justin De Quincy is well written.  However, the solution to the mystery was a bit of a let down.  I guess I hoped for some twist and turn in the story that led to a dramatic ending that I least expected.  That was sadly not the case.  I nearly gave the book 4 stars because the writing was excellent.  However, the plot was less than thrilling at times and the ending was blah.  So, 3 stars it is - and I hope that I'm not being too harsh simply because of my lack of mystery reading experience.  Maybe the obvious is the usual solution????	2004-01-01
US	39431061	R10O7QR5EGLPL7	0451402863	735794908	The Edge of Light	Books	5	1	1	N	N	OUTSTANDING!	Having known nothing of Alfred the Great, I leave this book with a desire to read more about him and more from Joan Wolf!  This book was outstanding.  It reads fast, but only because it is enthralling.  Wolf has an excellent understanding of the historical situation and only simplified a few names to keep like-named characters distiguishable one from another.  I would recommend this book to anyone who has an interest in English history.  I must just say again - it is OUTSTANDING!	2003-12-21
US	39431061	RFULGNH6X4DBE	0765340704	914292058	Lancelot Du Lethe (Mad Merlin)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fantasy galore	As a lover of Arthurian ledgend, I snatched up Lancelot Du Lethe eager to explore the story from Lancelot's point of view.  While I found the book an easy and interesting read, I also found it about 50 pages too long.  I could easily have enjoyed the story with a few less descriptions of the pixies and gnomes and other woodland creatures of fantasy.  They were distracting to the excitement of the story and added a childish twist that was at the very least unnecessary and at the very most - insulting.  I knew King's work - having first read Le Morte D'Avalon and knew his propensity toward magic so I should have been forewarned.  If you do not appreciate an abundance of spells, time warps and impossible underwater travel - this is not the book for you.  With any Arthurian legend there will be some aspect of myth- but King really knocks it out of the park.  I wondered if he didn't delve deeply into the unexplainable, because he lacks a grasp of any possible historical aspects on which to base his story. I found this to be a mixture of bits and pieces of the legend which other authors such as Cornwell, Bradshaw, McKenzie and even Miles tell more skillfully.  Now -it was a VERY fast read and I did like the perspective. Unfortunately, I found Lancelot and Guinevere well developed while the other characters suffered.  I did not read his first book Mad Merlin due to a personal disinterest in the main character.  If you are eager to explore King's work - you may want to start at the beginning and see if it carries along from book one to book three.	2003-12-07
US	39431061	R25RTRBE3S519Y	0671435124	816379204	In Winter's Shadow	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Exceptional!	If you think you know the story of Arthur - try again.  Gillian Bradshaw completes her trilogy in an exceptional tale.  This time the story is told from the perspective of Gwynhwyfar.  Some of the basics hold true - the love triangle, the usurping, treasonous, illegitimate son and the battle of &quot;good vs. evil&quot;.<BR>However, Lancelot's name does not appear in this work - neither does Merlin's.  Bradshaw holds true to the Welsh version of the tale and uses the more traditional characters of Cai and Bedwyr among others.  <br />The end of Camlann comes not with a barge and three queens sailing Arthur off into the sunset...but with how kingdoms truly end and lives along with them.<br />It is a gripping, exciting read filled with good military strategy for those of you who like that aspect of Arthurian tales.  If you like this legend - this is a must read.  This collection will never leave my bookshelf!	2003-11-26
US	39431061	R126HD6VXANFK7	0671254723	719262278	Kingdom of Summer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Continuation but a change also...	Gillian Bradshaw continues in Kingdom of Summer where she left off in Hawk of May with one major change...she changes the point of view from Gwalchmai to Rhys, his servant.  I like the observations Rhys makes of Gwalchmai and I think the switch in perspective adds much to a character I thought I had come to understand in the earlier book.  There is a bit more sorcery involved in this book but I love that it is down played for the most part.  I also love that there is no sign of Merlin or Lancelot; and Guinevere remains a barely mentioned figure in the background.  After reading nearly every Arthurian legend I can lay my hands on, I am excited to find this author's perspective to be truly different from the norm.  Bradshaw's characters have interest in their own right-- without the crystal balls and shape changing and time travel that so many authors depend upon for a cheap attempt to add a thrill to the story of Arthur.  And really, I guess this story is very little about Arthur - it's about Gwalchmai and it is GREAT!	2003-11-18
US	39431061	R2ILZC0IKZA7JC	0553299220	305776929	Hawk of May	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A new look at the sons of Lot	This book was a double winner for me.  I bought it used on Amazon.com for about $1 and it was GREAT!  I liked the new perspective on the sons of King Lot.  If you are familiar with the basics of Arthurian legend, you know King Lot's sons have played key roles in the legends in one form or the other.  They go by different names, the quantity of sons differs occassionally, as does the name of their mother.  In this case, there are 3 boys mothered by Morgawse and fathered by...???...well, raised by King Lot.  Hawk of May focuses on the second son...Gwalchamai or &quot;Hawk of May&quot;.  In perhaps typical middle child uncertainty, he doubts his ability to follow his elder brothers warrior prowess and seeks his own identity by bonding with his beautiful yet frightening mother.  However, the author takes us to the brink of darkness and sorcery only to deliver Gwalchamai to a more divine destiny.  The journey is not nearly that simple, however.  <br />The book is an enticing and enjoyable read.  The author provides a beneficial note on the pronounciation of the Welsh spellings used and I found them to be not the least bit daunting.  In fact, I liked the change to an otherwise very familiar legend. I found that the name and location variances kept me from &quot;assuming&quot; I knew where the story was headed.  I like the author's descriptions of key characters and was excited that Guenevere received barely a nod in this book with no sign of Lancelot yet.  Too many authors put too much into the love triangle and miss the mark when describing Arthur.  Bradshaw has done a marvelous job...I found myself torn between disliking Arthur and sharing in the feeling of awe that he inspired amongst his men and his people.   There is a trace of magic introduced, but none of the Merlin shape changing and time travel that bogs down too many Arthurian attempts.  The lore and myth seems more believable - as if the door really stood open at that time in history and we, today, have simplydrifted too far away from it.    At any rate, the book is excellent.  I see many copies on Amazon for a bargain - GET ONE!!!	2003-11-01
US	39431061	R27Z4YYKCNANP	0312242131	52601737	The Last English King	Books	1	6	13	N	N	How many times can I say AWFUL!	Let me sum this book up quickly... BORING!<BR>I adored the The Wind From Hastings by Morgan Llywelyn and eagerly sought another novel about Harold Godwin.  I should have kept looking.  It has taken me 4 agonizing days to reach chapter 10 (page 61) and I'm shelving it!  This book is FAR less about Harold and the Battle of Hastings, and much more about Walt and Quint strolling through the Middle East - NOT the English countryside as I had hoped.  The author is long-winded at best with his scenic descriptions and accounts of Walt's time with Harold Godwin are few and far between.  Maybe I'm missing out and this gets better - but I'm not willing to waste another day to find out.  This book has me breaking my 100 page minimum rule and has been ruled out at page 61!	2003-10-23
US	39431061	R1EWHR97GBC82L	0609609610	667537906	The Maid of the White Hands (Tristan and Isolde Novels, Book 2)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Twists and Turns and a Worth-While Read	In the continuation of the Isolde and Tristan saga, the star-crossed lovers are re-united only to be separated again.  <BR>   Isolde becomes queen in her own right and Andred continues to conspire against Tristan to secure his own place as the named successor of King Mark of Cornwall.  The newest character in the mix will not be new to anyone familiar with the Isolde and Tristan tragedy...Blanche - Princess of France.  It certainly gives nothing away to say that ruthlessness, treachery, and deceit continue to work against the steadfast love between Tristan and Isolde.  It would, however, give much away to tell you if their love endures... in life...or in death.  <BR>    Miles continues her skillfull mastery of English and Irish legend in a way that makes this book enticing, exciting, and well worth reading.  The only thing preventing me from giving this book 5 stars is that I cannot help but compare it to the Guenivere series and I found her take on that tale just a bit more unique to a ledgend I had heard before.  This book does follow the traditional tragedy a bit more closely but she spins a wonderful new tale despite the longevity of the original source.	2003-10-19
US	39431061	RV1PFLXEFB8DL	0765305941	473109536	Le Morte D'Avalon (Arthurian Novel)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great New Perspective	Having not yet read the first two of King's Arthurian tales, I stumbled across Le Morte D'Avalon quite by accident.  What a treat.  It was a fast read which kept me turning pages eager to see what the next twist in the story would be.  King introduced some characters to the tale that I had not had the pleasure of meeting in other Arthurian works - mainly Morgan's other children.  He also did a fantastic job of evolving the story as Morgan's life from a six-year old with mysterious visions evolved into her reputation as a witch, a priestess and ultimately a goddess.  Unlike the supportive loving sister of Mists of Avalon - unaware of her incestuous relationship with Arthur....Morgan in this book is cunning yet caring in an entirely new way.  Her feelings for Arthur also mature as she and her powers mature.  I don't normally go in for stories with lots of fire and dragons and shape changing, but King did it all very masterfully and mystically without being too hokey about it.<br />If you like Arthurian tales - give it a whirl...I was very pleasantly surprised!!!	2003-10-09
US	39431061	R1SVWAK45MCHSP	0449000729	767740511	Sarum: The Novel of England	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Unhappy with the Ending	Covering 10,000 years of history in the Salisbury area of England in under 1000 pages is an ambitious undertaking.  Reading this book is as well - this is a book for someone who loves history or England or preferably both.  The story moves very well until the building of the Salisbury Cathedral in the 13th Century.  That section of the book was hideously long with far too much needless description of the stone working process unless the book were to be a study in masonry.  The story picked up well again and moved along until the late 15th Century when it was completely dragged down with actual historical political notes.  Normally, the author's inclusion of historical fact to support the fictionalized story was interesting - but he went over board around 1640!!!!!  I was also sorry to see the end of the stone figure carved 10,000 years ago.  It resurfaced several times along with other geographic observations in the area until after the building of the Cathedral - then the author dropped that entire story line perminently - very disappointing.  I had hoped that in 1988 the statue would have resurfaced again to wrap up the entire tale....no such luck.  I actually felt that the author got to the end of the tale by skipping great heaps of history and then just saying...&quot;so there - now the book is done&quot;.  Honestly - by the end - I had just that same feeling.<BR>Read this if you like to read history - NOT if you are looking for a story alone.	2003-10-01
US	39431061	R3R0X3B5RLPCBM	0451455835	633225251	Merlin's Harp	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Creative - Original - Excellent	If you liked Mists of Avalon, here is another book you will enjoy.  The book is based on the perspective of a Fey woman.  The first few chapters focus entirely on the life of the Fey and I found it a very interesting perspective. Merlin is introduced as is Guenevere and Arthur and Lancelot - though you don't know this at first.  The introduction of characters is subtle and almost elusive.  Not until later in the book does the plot twist and turn and bring you to the familiar aspects of the Arthurian legend we all recognize.  It is a fast and intriguing read.  I also liked her inclusion of Merlin's songs throughout the novel.  They brought the poetic oral tradition of the legend into the book to show how the story evolved over time to the tale we know today.  I highly recommend this book!	2003-08-01
US	39431061	R2XLTHH6X0Y2F2	0060548266	77856961	The Hollow Hills (The Arthurian Saga, Book 2)	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Sophomore Slump???	I truly enjoyed The Crystal Cave (Book 1).  This book, however, left me skipping pages trying to find a part of the story that was truly interesting again.  The book takes an unusual look into the life of Merlin and the first 14 years of Arthur's life.  Perhaps the boring nature of Merlin's travels far and wide, the introduction and exit of many minor characters and the still under-developed story of Arthur's childhood are the reasons that other authors have simply glossed over this section of the story.  IT IS BORING.  I finally found true interest in the last two sections of the book - an easy 250 pages in.<BR>Read the last section - when Arthur discovers his identity, Morgause begins her trechery, Lot attempts to usurp the boy king and Uthur dies - that's all you need to move onto book 3.  The rest is filler at best.	2003-07-26
US	39431061	R3MOQHRNOR9K92	0958054355	99903987	Dear Heart, How Like You This?	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Disappointing	I so eagerly looked forward to this book, that I interrupted a series I had been reading and started this book the day it arrived.  I was disappointed.  While the story intrigued me, and I will definately read more on Anne Boleyn (a subject who previously interested me very little); I was just disappointed in the development of the story.  Too much was made of Sir Thomas Wyatt that really wandered away from his life at court and his connection to Anne Bolyen...it seemed to lengthen the book with no other real purpose.  I learned more of him in the historical notes at the end than all of her pages told me.  Then there were just some little particulars that I found tiring.  Dunn would flip back and forth from Anne to Anna incesently - often several times in the same sentence.  She also overused the world &quot;Verily&quot; to a degree of over-use I cannot even begin to explain.  Lastly, somewhere mid-book, she obviously fell upon the idea of Wyatt referring to Anne as his &quot;Dark Lady&quot; - something not used till that point and something she obviously liked because it also be came over-used needlessly.  Now, if you can get beyond those petty annoyances, there is a story here.  However, Dunn tells it in  about 100 pages more than she needed.	2003-07-21
US	39431061	R34NJKELJ9KYZ4	0060548258	693502039	The Crystal Cave (The Arthurian Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Good Start	Whenever I delve into a saga with sequels and prequels, the first book is the critical dertermining factor as to whether or not I continue the series.  While I have read more compelling first books of the Arthurian legend, I did not find anything in this book to dissuade me from continuing onto Book Two. Merlin is honestly the single character in the Arthurian legend who holds very little interest for me.  Much too much has been made of they legend and most stories stray into the realm of dragons and shape changing and such.  Stewart is careful to keep Merlin in the realm of human life allowing him a sixth sense...and almost soothsayer-like ability  ...but tempers it with a mystique that even Merlin does not understand nor control himself.   I found the characters of Ambrosius and Uther well done; and I liked the connection between Merlin and Ambrosius.  It finally gave a reason to Merlin's rational for being involved with these men at all...when often in the story it is clear he simply wishes for the simple life of a healer.<br />So far, Igraine is developing well also - with a much stronger sense of herself than I think other authors have given her.  She is not the typical &quot;vessel for the birth of Arthur&quot; and nothing more.  I also find myself intrigued that no mention has yet been made of Morgause or Morgan.  I'm eager to find out how they fit or do not fit into Stewart's telling of this old tale.<br />Dialog seems to be realisitic - especially when it involves the slaves and servants.  Stewart is descriptive but limits it to painting the backdrop and then moves on.  Overly flowery and much too lengthy descriptions of scenery were a point I disliked in the Cornwell Warlord Trilogy books.  I particularly like the descriptions of Tintagel.  Having been there, I was able to build on my memories of the site and make it into an actual castle in my mind.<br />Now - as I said -this was not the most compelling &quot;first installment&quot; I have ever read.  Infact, I have opted to disrupt the continuation onto The Hollow Hills and will first read another novel - totally unrelated- that has come to my attention before I continue with the Stewart Series.  That being said, I WILL continue...later.	2003-07-13
US	39431061	R2FIIGMIVZR0HG	0061091944	832267718	Stonehenge	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long but necessarily so	I actually liked this book, despite what I felt were rather poor reviews by some other readers.  I have read the Warlord Series by Cornwell and although I hated the first book, the other two were thrilling.  I ventured into this leary of Cornwell's tendency to overdo the scenery descriptions and his habit of repeating information as if the reader is too dense to have absorbed it the first 10 times.  Well, Cromwell held true to these bad habits, but the story moved along reasonably well and kept me interested.  I liked the character of Saban right from the start and was eager to find out what happened to this man who Cromwell fictionally credits for the building of Stonehenge although he was truly a simple victim of circumstance.  The other characters are also interesting and it is a nice dramatic look at what life may have been like 3000BC.  I particularly liked the author's historical notes at the end of the book that stressed the fictionalized account of the building and mentions the story locations by their modern day names.  I have been to this area and I was then able to truly visualize the situations.  I would only have suggeseted a map at the front of the book as opposed to the enlightenment of this detail at the end of the story.  My only other criticism of the story is that a lot of stone erecting takes place before we finally get around to the overly detailed erection of Stonehenge.  However, it was interesting in theory and I would imagine that much of this same trial and error really happened before they were able to create Stonehenge.  All in all, an interesting book if you want a good historical FICTION.  Anyone reading this for history is out of luck - there just isn't anything on which to base an historical work about this monument available for an author to use as a resource	2003-07-07
US	39431061	R3RMB75UPJKFMF	0380542625	235357433	One Child	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Horrifying  and inspiring	This book was a gift from a friend and truly the subject is outside my area of interest.  However, I read it in good faith and did enjoy it.  The book is simply written and is a very fast read.  I must admit that I was able to skim over some minor details and pick up the story without missing a beat a paragraph or two later.  I've no doubt that those missed lines were interesting - just not vital to the storyline and ...it was a story that really did not interst me at first.<br />I was horrified by the abuse this poor little girl suffered but inspired that ANYONE would have the patience to deal with these troubled kids.  Honestly, after hearing what she did to land in that class, I'd have been afraid to be near her.  It is good to see that there are better people in the world than I.  I can not begin to describe the step by step process of teaching this little girl the meaning of \\"safe\\" and \\"love\\" and \\"friendship\\" - things that a child of six should simply take for granted.  It was also nice to see that the father stepped up to the plate in the end and tried to be a stand up kind of man.  I only wish there had been a final note from the author to tell me that everything turned out ok and the child is now grown and educated and happy.	2003-07-07
US	39431061	R162MVHAKORTLC	0446305227	559513465	The Wind from Hastings	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A wonderful telling of an untold story	I have no idea if this woman ever truly existed and I have no knowledge of the history of England during this time period.  Until now, I've focussed on Arthurian legends.  This book seemed to be a nice, short diversion to another time period in English history.  It was that and more.  The characters interest you from the start.  Aldith's qualms over being used as a political pawn by her father and sent to an uncertain future as the bride of Griffith was well done.  Most other accounts of this marital arrangment seem to be simple compliance by the woman - never any questioning as to the reason for it.   Griffith was a real person in this story - someone I came to like just as Aldith came to like then love him.  Likewise, her relationship to Harold mirrored my impressions of him.  I also hated him at first only to eventually share her mixed feelings toward him and to hope for his victory in the end.  The story is extremely well written and has added Morgan Llywelyn to the list of authors I intend to read more avidly.  If you want a sweeping saga of historical fiction in less than 300 pages - this is the book for you!	2003-06-16
US	39431061	R3UNLCG2S44X7Y	0312866410	400282948	Guinevere Evermore	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Poorly Done	I struggled to finish this book.  I was disappointed in the trilogy to begin with and this book was DIFFICULT to continue.  At about page 90, I finally sparked a tidbit of interest and decided to continue.  Honestly, I was less interested in the author's conclusion of the Arthurian tale than I was simply curious to see how she wrapped up all of the loose ends she left in the other two books.  Well - the answer is that she wrapped them up poorly.  <BR>   Morgan Le Fay reappears from beneath the lake for just long enough to cause trouble and give a way for Arthur to die.  Morgause vanishes.  Guinevere's brother and his wife along with the other couple out in the woods appear only long enough for a long-lost nephew to arrive at the villa and then not another word is mentioned of them.  Merlin and Geraldus make a couple of re-emergences but they are eventless.  Guinevere does suddenly have a practically death-bed recollection of the unicorn but that story line is still as ridiculous as it was in book one.  The quick disposal of each of the knights in a couple of paragraphs near the end and then the onset of a plague seem only to allow the author to finish the storyline without torturing us through a volume four - for that I am thankful.  She culminates by throwing in two or so pages of questionable historical record as if to lend a modicum of credibility to her otherwise juvenile and fantastic tale of unicorns, misty other-worlds and undeveloped ancient religious practices.<BR>   This trilogy is amaturish, and filled with childish attempts at fantasy which do nothing to perpetuate what is normally a good tale...the ledgend of King Arthur.  Weak moments of interesting writing are few and far between and only serve to link toghether the pages full of boring, uninformative blathering.  Guinevere is unlikable from the start and remains so until her death.  Had Guinevere truly been this boring, she'd have been forgotten long ago.  I guess the worst part is that so many aspects that may have been developed and created an interesting twist on this old tale were simply ignored...as this entire trilogy should be ignored by anyone interested in a good Arthurian legend.  I won't even try to explain her endless references to Guinevere's unnaturally golden hair and the fact that all three books contain cover art featuring a brunette!! - Power for the course with this series.	2003-06-10
US	39431061	R1HVWFXIOSYXCA	0312863918	766707365	The Chessboard Queen: A Story of Guinevere	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A bit better than the first installment	Newman did a little better with this second part of her trilogy than she did with the first book.  While the writing is still very simplistic and many characters remain undeveloped, I found a bit of interest in the subcharacters.  Guinevere continues to be a self-absorbed dimwit but at least the unicorn is finally gone.  How in the world the unicorn gave it's love of Guinevere to Lancelot is still a mystery to me.  It seemed to be nothing more than Newman's weak effort to get rid of the unicorn character - for which I was grateful.  Let's see - there are so many silly points...Lancelot goes insane because Guinevere has suffered a flashback of post tramatic stress disorder involving her long dead nurse Flora.  However, we had no idea that the Flora episode ever bothered Guinevere in the first place.  Luckily Lancelot is saved by the Lady of the Lake and then suddenly gives up his efforts to find his birth mother.  Guinevere's brother who returned from &quot;the dead&quot; vanishes from the story opting to live in the wilderness where he has no contact with the rest of Britian...or with the author apparently because she completely forgets about those poor people living in the wilderness.   Sound scattered?  Sound childish?  IT IS!  However, Arthur's character was somewhat interesting.  It kept me ready....I'm not quite sure why.	2003-06-05
US	39431061	RZOEHS0C68O13	0312206488	80867101	Excalibur (The Warlord Chronicles)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Cornwell Redeems Himself	I began this trilogy HATING book number one.  Book two changed my opinion and drew me into book three.  With this last installment, Cornwell has completely redeemed himself in my eyes. Characters I had found dull and poorly developed in book one are now characters I miss since I've finished the series.<BR>While I still found occassional glimpses of Cornwall's overly- flowery scenic descriptions and while the stroke by stroke battle descriptions were still quite long - I stayed enthralled.  This book is by FAR not the traditional story of Arthur - the characters are there along with new ones, but the tale of Lancelot really threw me for a loop.  I liked the twist! I also liked the inclusion of Arthur's children - nice to know that the family line was not as doomed as in other renditions.  It is also a tale that is VERY military based.   The descriptions of the battles are detailed, detailed, detailed.  A student of military strategy would find particular interest in this book over any of the other Arthurian tales I've read.  Looking for romance - there is a bit- but not the love triangles and romantic liasons that so many authors dwell upon when writing about Arthur.  Come to think of it, I don't recall ever seeing the word Camelot in these books.  I would encourage Cornwell to continue the saga - what was Derfel's life like at the monestary, what happened to Arthur's son, what did Nemue do next?  There are still so many unanswered questions!<BR>Overall - a fast read, interesting story line, enough twists to be very fascinating despite what you think you know about the Arthurian legend.	2003-06-05
US	39431061	R3OWZXQQDTGWVK	0312862334	746304470	Guinevere	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Too simplistic	I found this book a bit to simplistic.  The writing was rather...basic.  I would have found this book simple enough for a young teenager to read.  I just didn't feel that the talent was there in comparison to Miles, McKenzie, Cornwell and Zimmer-Bradly.  The story gets across, but it is filled with silly childish things like the unicorn - a total waste of pages.  I also found the development of characters like Caet, Flora and the brother and sister living alone in the wilderness are all very poorly done.  I didn't &quot;KNOW&quot; them and therefore, their motivation for doing things was also not well understood.  <BR>If you are looking for a fast read (short book) and like the Arthurian legends - you may find some interest here.  However, there are about 10 books I'd suggest before this one.	2003-06-05
US	39431061	RJEKPP4B9EE26	0312187149	310643527	Enemy of God (The Arthur Books #2)	Books	4	1	6	N	N	The same Cornwell???	Can this be the same author who wrote the horridly disappointing &quot;The Winter King&quot;???  I was so incredibly unhappy with the first installment of this trilogy that I think I even had the author's name wrong in my review - it made NO impression.<BR>HOWEVER - I trudged forward and started Enemy of God and within the first few pages, I was amazed at the difference in Cornwell's writing.  Gone were the endless attempts at flowery scenic descriptions.  The book was still very visually fulfilling, but not over-done this time.  Gone were the scattered introductions of unimportant characters.  In their place were truly well-developed portraits of the key players in this tale.  It was two different people had written these two novels.<BR>Only at the very end of the book - within the last 50 pages - did a small trace of the long-winded Cornwall reappear and it was relatively painless since this time as I actually CARED what happened next.  <br />If you are thinking of this trilogy - skip the first one.  He offers enough information in the second book that you can pick up the characters without difficulty and start with an enjoyable read.	2003-05-14
US	39431061	R2Y7ZJNYJIEMWB	0345422570	392786125	Black Horses for the King	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Nice Story but no thrills	This book is a quick read.  The story is rather simple, but seems to be quite accurate with historical merit.  She has avoided the cliche Arthurian stories providing a new view that I did find refreshing.  Have no doubts - this story is FIRST a story about horses and quite a distant second it is a story about Arthur (Lord Artos).  I wonder if she couldn't have told this tale in even fewer pages, but it did keep me interested enough to finish it quickly.  If you have an interest in the farrier craft or the historical idea of bringing large horses into the service of early knights you will like this tale.	2003-05-02
US	39431061	R2KK1SL0YU5FQG	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	2	12	40	N	N	Painful Read - Poor Investment	You know a book is bad when you have to FORCE yourself to read at least 100 pages before deciding whether or not to shelve it.  The only thing that prevented me from puting this book away for good is the fact that I stupidly invested in the entire trilogy before reading this first installment. <BR>    In the first several pages Cromwell introduces such an amount and variety of characters that I neither understod or identified with any of them.  Page after page, I suffered through drawn out descriptions of scenery when all I truly wanted to understand was WHO THE CHARACTERS WERE!!  Finally, I found Derfel to hold a modest amount of interst and so I plugged away hoping for the best.<BR>     While I agree that Cromwell found a new approach to an old tale, I disagree with anyone who says he did it well.  The second star in my rating is a gift simply because he chose a subject I find hard to hate.<BR>     Cromwell's writing is long-winded.  I literally skipped PAGES ahead, passing over his drawn out descriptions on scenery, armor, and \\"who's who\\" lists at counsel gatherings.  Each time I was able to pick up the story without missing a beat. <BR>     Cromwell also repeats himself incesently!  Time and time again I heard the detailed description of Sagramore's black skin, the fact that Derfel survived a Druid death pit, and the purpose of a ghost wall.  I am not certain if Cromwell feels his readers are not savy enough to remember these tid bits of information or if he wasn't smart enough to know he already told us this information a few pages ago... and a few pages before that...and before that...and before that!  Perhpas he was just trying to fill pages?  I can't imagine why this story had to overlap into multiple volumes - many better writers have captured it in far less space - and in better form.  <BR>     I highly recommend that this fall to the bottom of your \\"to read\\" Arthurian ledgends.  I found Queen of Camelot and Grail Prince to be FAR better written!  Start with those.  Cromwell will drag you along - there are periodic points of interest.  But if you want a book that pulls you into the story - this isn't it.	2003-04-25
US	39431061	RFQDDGHCCYUXB	0345441184	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EXCEPTIONAL!	A fresh approach to an old tale, this book is well-written page after page!!  I won't even bother to explain the plot - the first few pages reel you in and you can't stop the enchantment.  A reader's simple excitement of finding what the next page holds is delivered ten-fold by this book-- and is so rare a pleasure that I want you to experience it fully.  Read the Editorial Reviews - see how much people like the book and leave the discovery of the tale to your own delightful adventure.<BR>What I will tell you is that it is by far one of the most memorable, most skillfully crafted pieces of literature it has ever been my pleasure to read.  NOW BUY IT!!!	2003-04-25
US	39431061	RMNJ33AOKCZ7V	0609606247	84984680	The Child of the Holy Grail (Guenevere Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A tremendous final installment!	Thank goodness this was a trilogy!  It is only unfortunate that it isn't an even longer series.  Miles continues her masterful retelling of the Arthurian legend in her third and final installment.  I am happy to say she ends as strongly as she began with Guinevere- Queen of the Summery Country.  <BR> <BR>As a history buff - I relish the chance to find a great historical fiction. Finding a book blending enough history to be intellegent but enough fiction to be entrancing is a rare indeed.<BR>This book (and the entire series) not only delighted me - but has now been passed along to family and friends who lack my love of history....and their delight with the story is as strong as my own.  <br />If you've read the first two books of this series by Miles, keep going!!  You'll be glad you did!	2003-04-25
US	39431061	RA6J8QAU5ZQBA	0345456483	952915718	Grail Prince	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Galahad - hate him or love him?	I liked this book well enough to recommend it - however, not without a couple criticisms...<BR>Galahad's wanderings help you to understand this character and his evolution from an overly pious finatic to a kind-hearted and loving man.  However, I thought there was a bit much recounting of the battle of Camlann and the days of Arthur.  I don't disagree that understanding these moments are important in understanding Galahad himself.  I simply wonder if the authur lacked confidence in the character and believed that the book would hold no interest without re-introducing Arthur in such great detail.  I read through the Arthur-filled chapters EAGER to get back to Galahad's quest for the grail and for inner peace.<BR>    It also seemed that as the book wrapped, the author did a huge role reversal with Ninianne.  I was left completely confused as to her true intentions.  This character along with the Merlin character from Queen of Camelot, were poorly developed and left little impression other than simple confusion.  Tristan was also introduced for about 4 lines and then vanished.  Perhaps he will be the subject of her next work???<BR>  Overall, however, I found the book captivating and the evolution of Galahad to be believable and heart-warming.	2003-04-08
US	39431061	R13BH66LVPULPM	0345445872	823414849	Queen of Camelot	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Don't pass this one by!	I've read MANY Arthurian tales, and was excited to find that Nancy McKenzie has taken an ancient tale and given it new life. Her rendition of Guinevere as an almost modern woman breathed new life into a character who is usually secondary to the men of this tale.  I was impressed that this Guinevere possessed a quiet strength in the face of so many adversities. Written as a memoir, the book gives you a complete understanding of not only Guinevere as a person, but also of the circumstances behind the person.	2003-03-15
US	39431061	R370OZYRJDJ5I9	0609609602	181785330	Isolde, Queen of the Western Isle (Tristan and Isolde Novels, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow start...Strong Ending	After thoroughly enjoying the entire Guenevere Series, I was excited to begin Isolde.  However, I nearly put it back on the shelf 5-4 times during the first 8 chapters.  Finally, I began to see some development to the new characters of Isolde, Mark, Tristan, etc.  By about chapter 15, I was hooked; and by the end of the book I found myself longing for the sequel.  I dread waiting till August to continue with the story.  <BR>    If you enjoyed the Guenevere Series, this book provides just enough of the Camelot Court to tie the two stories together; but Isolde and Tristan develope paralell to Guenevere and Arthur and I found the character descriptions well-formed and interesting in their own right.	2003-02-08
US	39431061	RF8WP4R9YP1TE	0609809563	222127573	The Child of the Holy Grail: The Third of the Guenevere Novels	Books	5	5	8	N	N	WHAT AN ENDING!	After thoroughly enjoying the first two books of this series, I was delighted with Miles' end to the trilogy.<BR>The saga continues without missing a beat and I was very satisfied with the &quot;end&quot; to the story of Merlin, Morgan, Mordred, Arthur and alike.  It was infuriating, touching, sad, happy - you name the emotion - it's in there.<br />I've visited Glastonbury, England - now I need to go back and sit under the hawthorn tree on the Tor and see it all with the &quot;eyes&quot; Rosalind Miles has given me.<br />Loved the Epilogue - left me hungry for more.	2003-01-24
US	39431061	R2XZ61JEGVN1EZ	0609808028	21227651	The Knight of the Sacred Lake (The Guenevere Novels Number 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Miles does it again!	Having loved the first of the series, I dove into Knight of the Sacred Lake with high expectations.  I WAS NOT DISAPPOINTED!<BR>Miles continued the saga of the Arthurian legend without missing a beat.  She offered just enough information from the first book to remind the reader of the situations at hand without boring me by recapping too much or insulting my memory of the first book.  I was swept away with this book - especially the heart-wrenching love between Guenevere and Lancelot.  It takes the story of their relationship to a new level by showing the true devotion of the lovers through years together.  It also introduces Mordred in greater detail and details the systematic brainwashing of the monks over Arthur.  Guenevere struggles with her desire to love her husband and fulfill her position as Queen; while Arthur grows more and more distant breaking his vows to his wife and her faith...who, afterall, made him High King.  Ever faithful and loving is Lancelot.  I hung on every word and it left me hungry for book #3.	2003-01-22
US	39431061	RCBR9QGEOIR1M	0609806505	148189446	Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country (Guenevere Novels)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The way Guenevere Should Be!	Finally - a book about Guenevere as a stong, independent woman who made a conscious decision to follow her own faith, stand by her husband and persue her true love.  So many Arthurian legends portray her as either Arthur's downfall or as a woman too stupid to understand results of her actions.  Miles does a wonderful job with this novel and I was immediatly on-line to purchase the second of the series so the saga could continue.  <BR>I also like her choice to make this a 3 book series.  Other than Mists of Avalon - never have I found a book that truly captures the whole story.  The ledgend of Arthur is just too great to fit into 300 pages.  Unlike Mists, however, she follows the legend more faithfully.  Morgan Le Fay IS the evil step sister, Amir IS born to Guenevere and Arthur, Galahad IS Lancelot's son.  I just like the story better this way!	2003-01-22
US	39431061	R3PSEP2KKP05P7	0451454243	202730821	The Forest House (The Mists of Avalon: Prequel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not her best work	After reading the Mists of Avalon, I eagerly anticipated another opportunity to get lost in a Marion Zimmer Bradley novel. Instead, I found the characters introduced too quickly with little background development.  It was truly a struggle not to put the book back on the shelf and begin another.  Finally, I found a bit of interest in the two main characters Eilan and Gauis.  However, I never truly cared what happened to either of them.  Chapter 23, involving Gauis, was so dull that I skipped 5-6 pages and the story continued as if they were not needed. <BR>   The only satisfaction I found in the novel was the story line of Caillean and the introduction of Avalon.  I own The Lady of Avalon and The Priestess of Avalon, so I'm not ready to bid farewell to the works of Marion Zimmer Bradley based on this one book.  I wonder, however, if the next segment in the story line could have summized this entire &quot;history&quot; in a single chapter and moved on.	2002-08-31
US	39431061	R1UODUI9FWVCYK	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Absolutely Magnificent!	In preparation for a vacation to Glastonbury, I picked up Mists of Avalon concerned that it seemed to be a rather ambitious read.  On the contrary!  I could not put it down and I breezed through the nearly 900 pages in no time at all.  Each page was captivating!  I wish it had been 9000 pages; for I was not ready for the story to end. The ONLY character I felt was not terribly well developed was Accolon, but it certainly did not dampen my enthusiam for this fabulous novel!  I immediately purchased all of Zimmer Bradley's Avalon series books.	2002-08-31
