US	39470182	R35H2URAZMMB7V	0451459067	966522728	Dhampir (Noble Dead)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Book with Bite	I didn't expect much out of this book when I started it. It had good cover art and looked interesting enough for me to pick it up, but I didn't expect much. I was very surprised when I couldn't put it down and am now eagerly awaiting more books in what is obviously going to be a series.<br />The book starts with a woman and her half-elf partner unscupulously fleecing villagers by pretending to rid their towns of vampires. Unfortunately, Magiere accidentally kills a real vampire and then unknowingly settles in the same town that the vampire's &quot;family&quot; lives in. What results is a conflict between the Noble Dead and Magiere, who turns out to be a half vampire herself. Allied with her is her partner, Leesil, and his trusty dog. <br />As characters, Leesil is actually more developed than Magiere is, which is surprising considering she's the main focus. It's hard not to like Leesil, with his extreme good looks and good humored personality. Under all that he's really an ex-assassin who can take care of himself, even if he's not part immortal. Magiere is tough, but little more in this book. There is also a very slight hint of romance between the two that will be interesting to see develop considering how different they are.<br />All in all it's a good series and I can't wait for more.	2003-12-06
US	39470182	R189EUX6U0QTTO	0099407116	99518193	THE SHORT AND BLOODY HISTORY OF HIGHWAYMEN	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Stand and Deliver!	A charmingly funny and very interesting history book for kids, Farman makes his history fast paced and realistic. Cutting off the gloss that most children's books put on when dealing with such romantic characters has highwaymen, the book is still humorous and informative. Where else would you learn about the highwayman who robbed his victims naked? Where else would you find out about the glamorous highwayman who made the ladies swoon until his untimely young death? Who else would tell you about the less than charming ways that highwaymen dealt with their quarry? This book has all the answers that an aspiring young historian would want.	2003-11-30
US	39470182	R2GCQDG4ZQIX6A	0306811855	892136214	The Gladiator: The Secret History Of Rome's Warrior Slaves	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Not for the Faint of Heart (or Stomach)	A very readable if sometimes stomach turning telling of the history of gladiators. The writing is fast paced and the book is as much a page turner as something that is going under the title of a history book has a right to be. Baker makes no glossy finish for his history of bloodsport. It's nasty, dirty and disgusting in every way possible. While he doesn't give the ancient Romans an excuse for their behavior, he does give an explaination. <br />Each chapter tells a different part of gladiatoral combat from executions to the actual hand to hand fighting, culminating in a fictional telling of a day at the games. While the book is enjoyable and interesting, it is still hard to swallow. Baker doesn't sugar coat his history, which gives a very vivid picture of a very bloody portion of history.	2003-11-30
US	39470182	RC7LUG7PWHCFE	074342736X	619699531	Little Things (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Vampires, Fairies and Slayers...Oh My!	Okay, so years ago Anya tossed a vampire demon into a group of forest fairies. Said fairies are suddenly tiny little vampires who after many years become LOTS of little vampire fairies. Years later they wind up in Sunnydale with revenge on their mind and looking to hunt down Anya. Best way to do this is to take her boyfriend, so Xander is suddenly captive of a bunch of Tom Thumb vampires and the Scoobies and Spike are having to hunt him down. <br />Each of the Scoobies are having their own small problems from parking tickets to toothaches, making a group of rather bothered heroes. Spike is still chipped and snarking at everyone and the whole gang is cutting up like always. The action is fast paced and the book is a good addition to the Buffy genre, even if there aren't any big revelations or deep content to it. It's a light hearted bit of fluff that teenagers will enjoy and that I enjoyed for the Spike content.	2003-05-12
US	39470182	RV3S029078J5P	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beginning of One of the Best Modern Fantasy Series	So begins the story of Garion, and orphan who finds his Aunt and the traveling story teller he is so fond of are more than they seem. Much more actually. Wolf the storyteller is actually Belgarath the sorcerer and Aunt Pol is really his daughter Polgara, both immortal magicians. Where Garion's place in all that is yet to be revealed. <br />Starting as a youngster on a farm with his Aunt, Garion has little excitement in his life beyond the ordinary trials of growing up. That is until a hideous being named Asharak begins to show interest in Garion and a long hidden artifact is stolen, throwing the land into a state of chaos in preparation for the coming war. Belgarath, Polgara and Garion are joined by a group of different royalty from different countries (similar to Lord of the Rings) and they set off to find the Orb that has been stolen and prevent an evil god from being awaken. Tied into all this is Garion, whose fate and purpose has not yet been revealed and is only slowly finding out about himself. At the end of the book, the group of companions stops a coup in Cherek and continues off after the Orb.<br />Light hearted in places with plenty of good action, Pawn of Prophecy is a wonderful fantasy novel for those looking for something like Lord of the Rings. The cast of characters is colorful and charming and people you'd love to get to know. You sympathize with Garion as he tries to find his place in the world and tries to understand the implications that he's more than he thought he was. It's good, fast reading and exactly what a fantasy series should be.	2003-05-12
US	39470182	R2FYF3LHTWIS5S	0880389052	243097701	Homeland (Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	So It Begins	In the beginning, before there was the noble warrior Drizzt, there was the confused, lonely young drow Drizzt. Trapped in a world which he knew was false, Drizzt struggles with an inborn sense of morality which he can't justify to the world around him. Finally coming to stand for what he knows to be true, Drizzt leaves his home to defy the evil society he was raised in, something his father Zaknafein was never able to do.<br />Drizzt is the ultimate warrior. Kind in a world that hates kindness, a two handed warrior of epic proportions, Drizzt fights physically and mentally for what he knows in his heart is right. The thing that dooms him to his people is the very thing that saves him. His mercy.<br />Zaknafein is everything his son is, only without the willpower to leave his world. Zak goes from loathing his son, who he fears will become just as evil as his kin, and loving him when he sees his own attributes even stronger in his son. Zak's ultimate sacrifice is touching and tragic at once.<br />Malice and her evil daughters, who form an unholy trinity, is a thing out of nightmares, as is the godess she worships. There is no fiber of human kindness in her. She is pure evil. <br />Salvatore has crafted a beautiful beginning for a character who is obviously his favorite and rightfully his signature. Fascinating in a way I've come to no expect in modern fantasy, if it involves Drizzt and Salvatore, it will be worth reading.	2003-05-12
US	39470182	R2JGX271WRSXX9	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Beginning of One of the Best Modern Fantasy Series	So begins the story of Garion, and orphan who finds his Aunt and the traveling story teller he is so fond of are more than they seem. Much more actually. Wolf the storyteller is actually Belgarath the sorcerer and Aunt Pol is really his daughter Polgara, both immortal magicians. Where Garion's place in all that is yet to be revealed. <br />Starting as a youngster on a farm with his Aunt, Garion has little excitement in his life beyond the ordinary trials of growing up. That is until a hideous being named Asharak begins to show interest in Garion and a long hidden artifact is stolen, throwing the land into a state of chaos in preparation for the coming war. Belgarath, Polgara and Garion are joined by a group of different royalty from different countries (similar to Lord of the Rings) and they set off to find the Orb that has been stolen and prevent an evil god from being awaken. Tied into all this is Garion, whose fate and purpose has not yet been revealed and is only slowly finding out about himself. At the end of the book, the group of companions stops a coup in Cherek and continues off after the Orb.<br />Light hearted in places with plenty of good action, Pawn of Prophecy is a wonderful fantasy novel for those looking for something like Lord of the Rings. The cast of characters is colorful and charming and people you'd love to get to know. You sympathize with Garion as he tries to find his place in the world and tries to understand the implications that he's more than he thought he was. It's good, fast reading and exactly what a fantasy series should be.	2003-05-12
US	39470182	RA1XESBDCYP4A	0451521129	444133547	Anne of Green Gables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beautiful Tale of Childhood	Between dying her hair green to scaring herself senseless with her own ghost stories, Anne is the charmingly imaginative orphan who cheerfully and melodramatically won the hearts of Matthew and Marilla.<br />Showing strength where girls aren't supposed to, and being intellligent where girls are supposed to be dumb, Anne is a wonderful role model who gets through life on her imagination and her determination to make her way in the world. And she even gets the guy in the end and realizes her dreams of going to Queens to get her teaching degree.<br />With a charming sense of humor that leaves you laughing one minute and crying the next at Anne's trials, this novel is a must for any young girl and should be a requirement for young readers.	2003-05-12
US	39470182	R1BD3MIU6RIW8T	0028641817	387880441	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Vampires	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Vampire Book That Didn't Suck	Starting with vampire lore and moving through modern vampires, vampire novels and vampire cinema, this book was a fascinating smorgasboard of vampire information. For someone who just likes general trivia and an interesting read, this book was a find. <br />The author's often light hearted style of writing made the read all the more enjoyable while not taking the vampire myths too seriously, yet still giving a dignified account of modern vampire lifestylers. <br />There were ommissions of some vampire authors and little depth into some things, but this book is for beginners, not for those looking for in depth vampire-nalia. For someone who is just curious about vampires, old and new, and perhaps wants to get a quick overview of Anne Rice, this is the book for you. Interesting, a light read, and really quite fascinating.	2003-05-08
US	39470182	R3ITWQ41MKO3HO	0064473414	592825229	Samantha and the Cowboy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cowboys Meets Girl	When forced to masquerade as a boy on a cattle drive to earn money for her family, Samantha befriends and starts to harbor feelings for lonely cattle hand Matt. After finding out that she's a girl, Matt struggles with his own feelings that have developed and whether he should turn her in to save her from getting hurt on the drive or allowing her to continue with her disguise. After a climatic stampede and some expected declarations of love, Samantha and her cowboy live happily ever after.<br />While it's pretty ordinary fare for a young adult romance, this novel has some interesting insight into the Civil War, though brief. It's also a fun adventure of cattle driving and there is of course the precursory romance. While it is rather unbelievable that a teenage girl could convince a group of cowboys that she's a he and the cowboy lifestyle is a great deal cleaned up from what it actually was, this book is still good for teenage girls looking for something with adventure and romance.	2003-05-08
US	39470182	R3DYHGCKWF9IY0	0786227192	629043793	Captive Heart (Trade Winds Series #1)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Pirates and Maidens	Living on a beautiful island with a loving fiancee, Devora has a wonderful life until her rarely seen mother returns announcing that Devora is to be married to a Spanish don of her parent's chosing to make an alliance between families. Into the mix is thrown a charming English buccaneer, Bruce Hawkins who also happens to be masquerading as the very same Spanish don that Devora is going to be forced to marry. This of course is unknown to her, since if Bruce is found out, he will be executed by the Spanish as a traitor. Attracted to the charming Englishman, Devora joins him after a raid on the island she's staying at to liberate at friend of the pirates. Drawn to his mystery, Devora and Bruce embark on a tentative relationship only for him to have to leave at the end of the novel, vowing to come back for her. <br />Better than the average Christian romance novel, this book overflows with intruige and adventure. Bruce is kind, mysterious, stern and vengeful all at once and Devora proves to be more developed than the normal one dimensional romance heroine. This novel was surprisingly good and a good start for the series.	2003-05-08
US	39470182	R1QGG7CTI9I9W4	0028640071	727779093	Complete Idiot's Guide to Urban Legends	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Repetative stories	The book started out well and interesting, promising to debunk all the misconceptions made with urban legends. Something happened though. Somewhere along the line it stopped being interesting. <br />I know I expected more emphasis on the psychological and folklore aspects of urban legends, but that wasn't touched on in any sort of inventive manner. Once a psychological aspect was touched upon, it was brought up with every legend in the chapter only stated a little differently. This made for rather tedious reading since the author had a rather snide sense of humor and seemed to be mocking anyone who had ever fallen for an urban legend. Now I'm not stupid, but there are some urban legends I've thought twice about. That doesn't make me stupid, it makes me human.<br />Most of the urban legends themselves I'd heard before so there really wasn't much new there and the gory ones were even watered down. While some of it was interesting, too much of the book was repetative from chapter to chapter for me to really like it.	2003-05-08
US	39470182	R1EYFWR4JEYF8V	0064473465	152172756	Catherine and the Pirate	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Charming Little Romance	While the title promises a pirate, that's really a misnomer for Derrick St. John, hero of the novel. Catherine, a young woman of prominent family is thrown together with the hero ... pirate when her brother is kidnapped and she needs a ship to Charleston to save him. The expected romantic misunderstandings take place with neither party revealing their feelings until the end after they have saved Catherine's brother with a little high seas action in the process.<br />Not bad as young adult romances go, the continued enforced guilt of Derrick got a little old after a while. Yes, he'd been a pirate once, but get over it. Catherine was your typical perfect heroine, pretty and brave and stubborn, with little personality. <br />While the book was the usual fair from this genre, it was a good effort and more enjoyable than most which is why it got a higher rating than I would normally give. Maybe that and that I'm [crazy] for pirates.	2003-05-08
US	39470182	R3A9J6ZLBLMWB6	0060294655	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	More Delicious Nonsense	You unwed mother just got pregnant to your algebra teacher, you have a secret admirer, you're in love with your best friend's brother, you're backwater cousin just came to town and has turned all the girl's heads, your Grandmere is planning a wedding that your mother doesn't want (John Tesh on piano included), and you happen to be the princess of a small country. <br />Mia is still struggling to keep school and princessing as painless as possible. She's now hopelessly in love with her best friend's brother, Michael, who seems to be harboring a hidden crush on her. She's also trying to stop a first class wedding for her feminist mother who just wants a quiet ceremony at the court house. <br />Still impossibly gawky, but now coming to terms with herself, Mia is as funny as ever with her comments on life and her friends.Who doesn't want to root for her thwarted crush on Michael, who might be teenage fictions most crush worthy male. <br />Things are solved as hysterically as always and once again Mia proves she's just a normal teenager trying to deal with life. Another charming entry into this wonderful series.	2003-04-20
US	39470182	R1MSRJMSSK5R7S	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sparkling Little Confection	I'll admit, I'm a college student who loved the movie surprisingly enough, so I figured it wouldn't hurt to read the book when I found a cheap copy of it. I was again surprised when I loved the book as much as the movie. <br />With style and humor, Cabot creates a charming modern fairy tale that never goes too far out to not be reasonable. Who hasn't been in Mia's shoes? Gawky, unpopular, and just trying to make decent grades in school, Mia is the embodyment of the typical teenager. With a sparkling sense of humor and more than a few charmingly messed up friends, Mia stumbles through life until she is told that she is indeed royalty. Like any other teenager whose life has been turned upsidedown, Mia struggles with her new found fame and trying to keep her new self true to her old self. A stylish haircut doesn't change what's inside, and Mia is a real gem. Hopelessly in love with the most popular boy in school and trying to fight a growing attraction to her best friend's brother, Mia's plight is fantastic yet still real. <br />Now for the charming supporting cast. Grandmere of Genovia is a dragon in a purple silk dress. Terrifying and comical at once, Grandmere Clarisse is proud, arrogant, and insensitive yet still inadvertantly humorous. The tattooed eyebrows have to be one of the funniest discriptions I've ever read. <br />Mia's best friend Lily is brassy and opinionated. She tries just as hard to stand out as Mia tries to fit in. Sassy and intelligent, Lily, as bold as she is, is still someone you want on your side.<br />Michael. Michael has to be my favorite character of all. What girl doesn't want a Michael in her life? Cute, kind, and independent, Michael is perfect boyfriend material whether he knows it or not. Who wouldn't want someone as subtley devoted to Mia as Michael is? That and he looks good with his shirt off. <br />Needless to say, I'm addicted to these books now. I rarely find a novel I like so much and want so much more of.	2003-04-20
US	39470182	R1WSVBG4YXE01W	0880389095	364069412	Riverwind the Plainsman (Dragonlance: Preludes, Volume 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It May Be Inaccurate but At Least It Was Good	Your beloved needs you to go on a quest to claim her. You take the village idiot. You fall down a big hole into an underground kingdom of elves. You have an elf fall in love with you and you eventually take on a black dragon. All in a days work for Riverwind.<br />Riverwind is forced to go on a courting quest to claim Goldmoon. The quest involves finding proof of the old gods. Catchflea, the town idiot, joins Riverwind and they end up falling down the entrance to a city of underground elves. After an epic battle to free them from their oppressive ruler, the companions blunder into a city of draconians and a cleric making horrible lizard warriors. Only one person makes it out of this whole mess alive and sane. <br />The plot is implausible so it's up to the characters to make the read interesting. And they do. Riverwind is an interesting very sweet character. Catchflea gets annoying, but Di An is a nice character and Li El is truly creepy.<br />If you're looking for a good, light read from Dragonlance, you might want to check out this book.	2002-08-09
US	39470182	R2CGJ05X0Y7QCJ	0880387769	837301549	The Brothers Majere (Dragonlance:  Preludes, Book 3)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Gotta love Raistlin	Yes, the premise of disappearing cats seems a bit ridiculous to say the least, but somehow envolving Raistlin automatically gives the story a little dignity.<br />The plot envolves a scared city that is losing all the cats that are supposed to protect the town. Raistlin and Caramon are naturally called in to solve the mystery which slowly evolves into a murder case when town officials end up dead, looking like they've been killed by a very large cat. Enter Shavas, a beautiful official that shows more interest in both twins than is professional and is much more than what she seems. Eventually all hell breaks loose (literally) and Bast, the cat lord, comes to help.<br />Raistlin is much softer in this book than the later version. He gripes and complains and treats Caramon awful, but he truly seems to care about his brother. Caramon is just the big old dope he always is and I wish Bast was a real character that was used again in later novels. Shavas is a wonderful archvillain and even when the action gets a little confusing at the end, she's always a perfect story line to go back to.<br />This really was a good book in this series. Read it if only to see a younger, kinder Raistlin.	2002-08-09
US	39470182	R30VYIN3C7FYJT	0880387548	323839110	2: KENDERMORE (Dragonlance: Preludes)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Redeemed the Series	After the abyssmal Darkness & Light of the Preludes series, I was very inclined to pass over Kendermore. I only had hope because the author was different, so I gave it a shot. Luckily this book was a hundred times better than the last one.<br />The main plot is that the kender Tasselhoff is being taken back to Kendermore by the dwarven bounty hunter Gisella and her assistant. Of course being a kender, he ultimately gets distracted along the way. A treasure map gets involved along with a cowardly doctor and Tasselhoff's intended bride to be. Being a kender he naturally manages to get out of every tight situation without fear and normally \\"borrowing\\" something along the way.<br />Kendermore saves itself from the problem of the last novel by not taking itself so seriously. Ridiculous situations are treated as just that and not intended to be great masterpieces. The author lends just enough credibility to the rather comical character to make him an amusing hero.<br />It's all in all a nice light read that though it won't make you think too much, it won't sour your stomach either.	2002-07-29
US	39470182	R33UI7YHYVEOZL	0064404773	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wish she'd make a series of these	After growing up on Disney fairy tales and the like I've always had a certain fondness for folk tales. This just happens to be a masterful retelling. I normally groan when someone attempts to tale a classic tale \\"with a twist\\", but if they were all done as well as this one I wouldn't mind in the slightest. <br />McKinley gives her Beauty a wonderful worldly intelligence and almost sarcastic sense of humor. She's not a true beauty to anyone accept the Beast and her family. I loved the fact that the sisters were NICE, not your normal run of the mill evil siblings. The family was normal and it almost seemed like the reaction of any family put in such circumstances, fairy tale or not. McKinley fleshes out the story into a beautiful novel, with a Beast that was never mean. It's almost more believable that way. I mean Beauty had to get over him being a Beast in the first place, what better way to get over that part than if he were a nice Beast? The character are lovingly portrayed so that each one is cared about, not in the least the Beast himself.<br />Yet Beauty is the main character in this story and there couldn't be a better heroine. She's brave, intelligent, caring and a tomboy. She has conviction and a sense of humor lacking from many fairy tale women.<br />I myself wish that McKinley would continue writing novels of this type. I would love to see her take on other fairy tales. Everyone needs a Beast like hers.	2002-07-24
US	39470182	R1MQX8JUPAVLQX	088038722X	964722337	Darkness and Light (Dragonlance,  Preludes, Vol. 1) (v. 1)	Books	2	7	7	N	N	Not Really Horrible, but No Good Either	I tried to like this book, really I did. I went into it expecting a light read, not Shakespeare mind you. But light reads are supposed to be LIGHT! This book was either too conspicuously trying to take itself seriously or too conciously trying to be funny.<br />The main gist is that Sturm and Kitiara accidentally end up on another planet when the flying machine they are riding in with a band of gnomes breaks. Once on the planet it's a series of misadventures trying to get supplies to leave which eventually leads them to a brass dragon in an obelisk. When they finally get back to Krynn, Sturm inexplicably joins a group of herders to find his father, barely being saved by Kitiara before being done in by a magician warrior. Did I mention the deadend plot about a pirate ship? I won't even try to go into that.<br />The characters were strikingly bland. Sturm is such an over-pious, stuffy character it's hard to sympathize with him and Kitiara is just obnoxious, bemoaning how the world doesn't work out perfectly for her. The gnomes are interchangable and so annoying one wants to put them all in a box and sink them to the bottom of the ocean. The one chapter featuring Raistlin and Caramon was better than most of the other characterization put together. Raistlin is such a magnetic character it's hard to write him poorly.<br />Initially, if the authors had stuck to the later plot of the book, with Sturm looking for his father, this thing might have been a good read. But in the end, too much is attempted to be done and the book just runs out of gas. Oh, and where was the promised romance? I found none. <br />In the end, too many plot twists make an admirable rope to hang this story on.	2002-07-24
US	39470182	R2I71G6SI0BZ5V	0553568035	111578566	Star Wars X-Wing: The Krytos Trap, Book 3	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Brainwashing Time	I've said it before and I'll say it again. I don't like science fiction, but I love this series because it doesn't really portray itself as such. There is a lot more going on here than just mechanics.<br />This being the third book in the series, it's sort of found itself at a precarious position. It could either have gone back to the dogfight style of the first book or stayed with the more subdued style of the second. Stackpole pulls a nice one by returning with the fighting, only putting it in a courtroom. <br />The last book left off with Tycho Celchu charged with the murder of Corran Horn, something that anyone who read the epilogue in the last book should know isn't true. With this in mind, as the climax builds, we are left with the conclusion that either Tycho is brainwashed, Corran is brainwashed or someone else is brainwashed. That's an awful lot of brainwashing. Anyhow, the trial scenes are enjoyable and several villains get theirs so there is nothing wasted. <br />Wedge is back and unfortunately for him so is the husband of the first woman he's been interested in for a while. Corran is a little more subdued in this one, of course he IS being tortured in a prison camp. Tycho is still his likable this-shouldn't-be-happening-to-me-I-didn't-do-anything-wrong self. Gavin is starting to become a real character that I thoroughly enjoy and Borsk Fey'la just makes me want to beat him up.<br />Finally, complaints. The main villain is even less intimidating in this one because she's in it so little. Word to the wise, just develop one of the politicians as a villain and I'd be impressed, they are more backstabbing than all the villains combined.They're really trying to make Asyr and Mirax developed female characters, but they're failing. Lastly, there wasn't nearly enough Tycho for me. He just passively takes everything that's done to him and never explains why.<br />Aside from that I really enjoyed the Law and Order in space.	2002-07-17
US	39470182	R3TBVKC5VUIDHH	0553568027	614671119	Wedge's Gamble (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So We've Taken to Espionage Have We...	As I've stated in past reviews, I don't like science fiction. \\"Then why are you reading it?\\" you may ask. That's because I love the fantasy element so much I can live with reading through endless mechanical jargon. Star Wars normally has more sword fighting than shooting up stuff, therefore I enjoy it. This series though has been the exception to my \\"I hate mechanics\\" rule. It's fast paced and interesting and I've come to like the characters.<br />This second book in the series is refreshingly dogfight light. Very little actual spacecraft battle ensues. This is a very nice break from Rogue Squadron's battle heavy plot. This book deals mainly with Rogue Squadron infiltrating Coruscant for Republic take over. The final climatic scene involves a mirror, a reservior and someone ending up \\"dead\\". Of course they're not dead. Since when has anyone in Star Wars ever stayed dead a long amount of time? They couldn't even kill the Emperor the first time.<br />Corran is still the main player in this one. He's egotistical and cocky yet there's still something endearing about him that puts him on the list of favorite characters for me. Gavin Darklighter has a little more of a part in this one that makes the naive little farmboy a character that's hard not to like. Wedge himself is a great character, having spent most of his life killing yet still not used to it. Tycho also has grown on me in his own long suffering, quiet way. No way anyone in real life would put up with as much as he has and still be serving in the army.<br />Now to the weaknesses. Of course there is a scene that involves someone previously very bad reevaluating their life in like two minutes and saving everyone. Sure. That happens every day in a shoot out.The main villain STILL inspires no terror in me. I have reached the conclusion that I could take her. Last but not least the female characters are still not developed. Unfortunately it's still a man's world in Rogue Squadron appearantly.<br />Complaints aside,I'm ready for the next volume.	2002-07-09
US	39470182	RHCP527VKECRF	0553568019	891099578	Rogue Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of my Favorite Star Wars Series	I was never much for the technical part of science fiction. Robots and spaceships never really grabbed my interest. To put it bluntly, I'm not a science fiction fan and I only enjoyed Star Wars as much as I did because of the fantasy element so heavily played. Needless to say I wasn't prepared to be impressed by the Rogue Squadron series. It was mechanics and not lightsabers, but I figured I'd slog my way through them for the sake of saying I'd read them. Thankfully for me, and thanks to very good writing by Stackpole, I can say that I didn't slog through anything, I thoroughly enjoyed every chapter of the book.<br />Main plot is that Wedge Antilles has rebuilt Rogue Squadron to intimidate Imperial forces. What happens afterward is several different dogfights that all manage to actually LOOK different. It's never replays of one fight over and over only in different locations.<br />Character wise, there are a lot, so development takes place over the series instead of just this book. Wedge has always sort of been a favorite of mine, just because he was a normal everyday soldier. Tycho is a genuinely nice XO who no one except Wedge trusts. Corran Horn is by far the most developed character and really has become one of my favorites right behind Kyp Durron and Obi-Wan. He's cocky, respectful and dedicated.<br />Now here are the reasons for the missing star on my review. Number one, the female characters are basically love interests for the male pilots. Number two, the villain did nothing to inspire terror. She just glowers a lot and executes her own people. Her main agent in the book is an idiot.<br />Those problems aside, this is a great book. Shall I say Top Gun in space?	2002-07-01
US	39470182	R386WCCS9BEV91	0345443004	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Better Than the Reviews Imply	Having read Rogue Planet and been disappointed, this book actually surpassed my expectations, though I am not really all that surprised by the less than enthusiastic reviews on here. <br />Luminara and Bariss are welcome introductions to the world of Jedi Knights. I've always been a bit disappointed at the lack of female representatives in the Old Republic. These two are actually sympathetic and kind. It shows a feminine side to the knights. Yes, they do engage in some odd habits for Jedi philosophy, but so did Qui-Gon in Episode 1 if I remember correctly.<br />Obi-Wan and Anakin are delegated to secondary characters, but that didn't bother me all that much considering that as the main characters in Rogue Planet I didn't like the way they were characterized. Yes, Obi-Wan is strict and a bit austere, but I didn't see him giving any bear hugs to Anakin in AOTC either. That's not the way he works, he's just not that outwardly emotional. I actually liked Anakin's characterization in this book. He is overly eager to please and prove himself while still trying to battle mental scars from his youth. He's impatient, yet still no one can deny that he is talented. He stays and enigma in this one, just like I think he should.<br />As for the rest of the plot, political squabbling is the main premise. I don't know how anyone can expect anything more. This was the age of everyone trying to keep a decaying Republic together, not fight an actual war. It's political manuevering, not hostile takeover. Yet. There really wasn't room in this part of the story for a particularly malevolent villain. Right after the Empire falls there is, in NJO there is, but not now. It doesn't fit into the timeline.<br />All in all, it wasn't a bad read. Don't go into this expecting a fight like NJO and you won't be disappointed.	2002-06-17
US	39470182	R2Y156FNV6EZNZ	0140436146	191981119	Martin Chuzzlewit (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of Dicken's Best	Who am I to argue with Dickens? One of the greatest authors of all times and I still didn't know about this book. Maybe size puts people off or maybe it's just overshadowed by the ones everyone has to read in highschool, but Martin Chuzzlewit is one of the best by Dickens. Sly wit and sarcasm prevade the book, making it still an interesting read even in modern times. A little confusing sometimes, yes, but it was well worth the read. This was the first book I'd ever read where I orginally hated a character then began to like them after the reformed.<br />I think this book is truly under rated. Thick as it is, this book is one of the best Dicken's novels I've ever read.	2002-06-16
US	39470182	R1HN0UARKUVQU2	0880706198	384113295	Legacy (Journeys of the Stranger #1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Western	This book was better than I expected it to be. The initial western action was well developed and explosive. True, the Stranger turned into a bit of a superhero, dodging bullets and beating thugs, but it was kept as plausible as possible. I was surprised and a bit pleased that Lacy didn't shy away from the Western violence. <br />My only complaint was Breanna's constant reference to 'the man she loved'. One mention is necessary, two is allowable, but 10 times is getting a bit redundent.<br />Other than that, a better than normal Christian Western.	2002-06-13
US	39470182	R1O1USUY8Z8NF4	1556615418	49843646	Voyage of the Exiles (Land of the Far Horizons) (Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Start to a Promising Series	This book is not a typical Christian romance. It's much better. The characters aren't thrown into improbably sappy situations, in fact, it's quite the opposite. These characters are flawed, abused, and not destined for your typical fairy tale ending. People get sick, die, have to live down doing bad things, and don't necessarily end up with the first romantic pairing they are put in. This isn't normal for a Christian romance and it's refreshing to find a book that is historically realistic and still very readable.<br />I wait with great interest to see how things go now that the storyline has finally reached Australia.	2002-06-13
US	39470182	RTR02M57CTMZZ	0345435400	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	It Started Out Well But...	I really went into this book expecting a lot of action, you know, lightsaber fighting,Force using, something! That never really came about. I love Obi-Wan and expected him to be a major part of this book, but he ends up being rather bland and severe. If he acted like that to Anakin all the time, no wonder he went to the Dark Side.<br />The beginning really was the strongest part. It was interesting and fun, but when the scene changed to Zenoma Sekot (sp) everything became almost unbearably slow, the Jedis' actual mission seemed to be put on the back burner, and there were several confusing sub-plots that I lost interest in. It seemed like Bear had a bunch of good ideas and tried to get them all in this book without developing any of them fully enough.<br />It really was a let down to me. Maybe someone who likes their books slower paced will enjoy this one more than I did.	2002-06-07
