US	39594961	R3BKMRDTV3T1MP	0452281229	17793490	The Chisellers	Books	2	3	14	N	Y	Don't be fooled by the cute photo on the cover!	This book was advertised in some of the American Irish Papers and the photo looked very cute, and frankly, I could have been one of the kids on the cover, so I picked it up.  The novel is PURE pulp set with some cute characters, but this author 'jazzez' up the storyline and makes it 'modern' in a way that is subtle to the modern mind but a fraud and a trick on the reader.  <br />This book follows teen and late teen working class (comparitively) large family living in a Dublin apartment.  In the tradition of a trite modern movie, good things happen to this 'single mother' 'Agnes' who never had an 'organism' with her late husband because he was like ice upon her back.  You gotta throw in the single-mom and sexually underutilized 1970's housewife to sell a novel these days you know.  She however, finds fulfillment in a French transplanted pizza maker.  <br />This all the while her oldest son, who works for an Austrian Jewish holocau$t refugee and survivor (gotta throw the holocau$t reference in there to make a modern novel you know) and saves the survivors old fashioned handcrafted furniture factory when the English clients want cheap disposable furniture, by making . . .  cheap disposable furniture.  Along the way, he finds a girlfriend and gets married.<br />The second older son becomes a hairdresser and a homosexual, but Agnes, being the stupid woman, never cathces on even when her gay son dances with his randy boyfriend at the other son's wedding.  But the son actually married says the modernist 'Whatever makes you happy?'  <br />But the third older son is a skinhead punk  (gotta throw the nazi rascism reference in there to sell a modern novel ya' know)  He steals money from Agnes, gambles, and helps beat her gay son almost to death with his other skinhead punk friends.  We all know that there were *so many* skinheads and beatings in Dublin circa 1973.  That is why the whole country, below the 6 counties, had 2 murders a year.<br />The other kid is a shoplifter, the other daughter races a go-kart, all summing up into a completely false and unbelievable tale wrapped in quaint language with some true references to way people act, and still act in some quarters.  I think this book's cover is its only high point.  I have cut the cover off, by the way.  Buy this book with the hopes of scoring a picture, do not expect writing in the style of the McCourts, or as accurately truthful as 'Its a long way from Penny Apples'	2004-02-26
US	39594961	R39BR7U9G7KRQ9	0312076223	941765743	The African Adventurers: A Return to the Silent Places	Books	5	17	19	N	N	What a book, What an author!	I could not put this book down.  What a sad world we live in today when there is no dark continent to explore the way that the professional hunters and wardens described in this book had to experience around the year 1900.  What a sad world and what a bunch of counterfeits the Croc Hunter and Croc Dundee are.  Author Capstick puts you there a hundred years ago, where prides of lions manage to devour 450 villagers before being shot, or where 30,000 elephants are shot in one country alone just to limit crop damage!  These examples give you an idea of the world the hunters profiled by Capstick in this anthology of sorts walked into circa 1900 to 1940.  Lions walking into huts populated with 100 sleeping people, only to leave without molesting a soul, only leaving their footprints around the myriads of sleeping African tribesman.  Big cats jumping through windows to snatch infants in bassonets, toddlers grabbed off porches, the head being found a day later in the grass, Cheetahs killing humans just for the fun of it.  Guns jamming and cartridges failing in the face of wounded lions.  Deadly snakes, Puff adders, Black Mambas, no antidote, one example of these snakes even dropping out of trees to bite a human victim.  <br />Make no mistake about it, Africa was all the danger you ever dreamed about and more at the turn of the last century. ANy game animal in North America is tame in comparison to the African beasts described so vividly by Capstick.  Get this book and dream of an Africa unspoiled, full of game more cunning and ferocious than you,  and dream about the original tribes, and the Englishmen that first made contact with them.<br />I will work my way through all of Capstick's books.  I am hooked.  This book is fanstastic.	2004-02-26
US	39594961	R3NJJ6ZI64H3AD	0806127325	21621259	Saving the Constitution from the Courts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Expose of the Perversion of the Constitution	Having taken some of Dr. Gangi's classes during college, I became familiar of course with this book and how true its themes are when I went through Law School.  <br />The beginning chapters of the book discuss the original Constitutional Design of the writers/founders, and through documents of the time, particularly the Federalist Papers, reveal the original understanding of just how the American People would govern themselves, and just how the three federal branches would work.  Now I am NOT a fan of the American Constitution for other reasons, but the Constitution was voted to be the law of the land on certain understandings of how power was to be shared, etc.  i.e. power was granted to the federal government on certain conditions so to speak.  <br />This follows into the twisitng of the original design by an activist judiciary over the last century.  Where there used to be very tough standards as to what exactly a 'case or controversy' was that was capable of being resolved in Court, now the Courts, following their own decisions, have invented so many rights and entitlements, and laws thereon, that the citizens of the States can not control their own destiny through the legislature.  As Federal Judges are appointed, this unelected 'legislature' is now more powerful than the elected legislature.  This is in direct opposition to the original design of the laws of this country and represents a 'stabbing in the back' if you will of the 'We The People' who have been increasingly usurped of our ability to pass legislation through our elected officials.  <br />Now the book exlores many areas of this conflict, but the constant theme comes forth, that the activit judiciary has stripped the citizens of the USA of much power that was formely in their hands.  Both against true democary, and against the very ratification committees whose delegates ratified the Constituion.<br />This is a reference work and is EXHAUSTIVELY footnoted and contains many links to Law Review Articles and Primary Source Documentation from the Constitutional Period and the Civil War Period.  Check it out.	2003-12-03
US	39594961	R4DN767RZYZ64	0684811766	873316429	Making The Most of Your Money	Books	2	5	19	N	N	One big boring discussion	Before I say why I disliked this book, I will say that in my opinion, most books on personal finance are poorly written, are inapplicable to their target audience, and/or just plain wrong.  This is a large book, and I will credit it for defining or explaining just about every conceivable savings/investment vehicle.  For whatever this book lacks, or where i feel it treats an idea wrongly, this book is nonetheless, very thorough.<br />HOWEVER, - most of the information is inapplicable to the general public, some of the information discusses financial products that are not commonly available, if at all, and most of the sections can be distilled down to a few sentences, this is not to mention that if you followed many 'money saving strategies in the book, you would not have time to sleep or eat chasing after that extra nickel.  With the new tax codes written from the Reagan years on, there are no more write offs for most people, everything is way to expensive, and bank interest is a joke.  Here is a synopsis of the book:<br />1.   Save more money<br />If you use her college planner, you will see that unless you are amongst the top income earners in america, you will have to choose between food and saving for college tuition.  If you have money to implement Mrs. Quinns suggestions, you dont need the book because you will have a financial rep. and a lawyer of your own to make these decisions for you.  <br />Of course I add a lot of my own bias to this book.  Unfortunately I can stand most financial magazines, writers and books because they do not proceed on the assumption that the american economy has exploited the american family, and the very fact that this book needs to address parents saving incredible amounts of money for their children's college tuition while the baby is still in its bassonet is proof positive of the book's own insanity.  <br />My suggestion is that you do not buy this book and help to fund Mrs. Quinn's retirement, but that you buy smaller, shorter,more focused books on individual topics.  For most people I believe you should start with one of the 'Dummies' series and go from there.  Good luck.	2003-11-28
US	39594961	RH9SFIDGVACKP	1893522024	896075654	Tax Havens of the World, Eighth Edition	Books	4	89	95	N	N	Learn how wealthy american fleece the working stiff	I always get a couple of laughs when I see these 'tax haven' and 'offshore banking books' marketed to the general public as some sort of panacea for confiscatory taxation.  As if some working stiff (like me) can swim up to the pool bar at the hotel in the Caymans and rub elbows with other 'tax refugees' and flip the bird to the IRS.  GIVE ME A BREAK.  This subject was a pet hobby of mine over the last 6 years and let me tell you that unless you are in the top 1% of income earning americans this book is useless to you.  Unless you have a hundred thousand dollars you can blow in attorneys fees to set up your 'technically' legal International Business Corporation, and have a team of CPA's certifiy your tax returns 'assuring' the government that you 'really really' dont own the other 98% of your corporation you can not LEGALLY use the ideas contained in this book.  If you wanted an explanation of how the international tax laws work, while at the same time how you could break the tax laws and hide and deposit money in a place like the Bahamas you can use this book.  BUT, no matter what type of person you are, you ought to study tax havens for 5 years before you do anything, legal or otherwise. <br />You need five years to see that a good portion of the 'tax haven' world is nothing but an international racket filled with international con-men.  While this book may be dedicated to Patrick Henry 'Give me Liberty and Give me Death' and the American resistance against BRitish Taxation, the persons and mostly corporations illustrated in this book do nothing but fleece the working stiff.  <br />Reading between the lines, all the americans who had to leave the United States to live in these tax free jurisdictions did so because they broke a serious law and were facing jail time.  Do you really think that when they got to Costa Rica they stopped operating their business.  Between tax cheating felons, guys that welshed out on their spouses in divorce settlements, or people who were sued and are escaping judgments, the tax havens themselves are filled with criminals on the lam.  <br />Case in point, this book mentions that American Doctors facing killer lawsuits often have bank accounts and monies in tax havens because they are judgment proof!  Normally Doctors have this incredible thing called 'Malpractice Insurance' that pays out on claims.  If a doctor is escaping a judgment it is because he did not carry malpracice insurance (that tells you about the doctor right there) OR the Doctor committed a serious crime, like a sexual battery, in the course of his professioal duties so that his insurance company disclaimed coverage.  In either case I think the picture is clear.  Remember OJ Simpson going to the Isle of Mann off of England during the murder trial ;) <br />Furthermore, over the past 5 years I have seen the IRS and Congress move steadily in the direction of stopping tax haven activity entirely.  It is mentioned in this work that you cna get an offshore debit card that looks like a regular Visa or Mastercard.  So in that manner you could spend your undeclared dividends and interest in the USA.  Well that was great until the IRS subpoenad all the Mastercard accounts where the receipts were generated to credit networks set off in a few key areas.  Now who do you think is going to be audited.  <br />Furthermore, there have been some spectacular bank failures in these tax havens, and remember there is no FDIC.  The oft touted bank secrecy laws in these countries are great until an enterpirsing government agency gets a back door plant in these institutions with Mr. Benjamin Franklin taking the lead.  <br />Really, this book is the best on the subject of tax havens by far.  In fact I think this is the only book that has a TECHNICALLY legal way for them to be used by a U.S. Citizen.  The book is well written and appears to cover all the bases, but I assure you it does not.  The book is similar somewhat to a prospecuts of a risky investment ortax shelter that a bunch of clever lawyers and accountants have come up with.  Technical compliance with tax laws will most likely spare you criminal prosecution if you get called on it, but of course you can still be hit with civil penalties.  <br />As an American you should be AWARE of the existence of this aspect of international finance.  You should be aware that you have monetary escape routes in the event of disaster, and really, this book will open your eyes to a world 99% of america knows nothing about, but it is no 'everyone can do it' tax shelter.  This is a corporate shell game, and I believe the recent Enron debacle involved the use of offshore vehicles to disguise losses and such, that fleeces the public.  With sufficient thought, it is hypocrital in the first degree to think that by allowing corporate fat cats and high net worth individuals to park billions offshore and pay no taxes, we, the wroking public, are somehow 'getting back' at the IRS.  The only person getting killed here is me.  Nothing more.  <br />I give this book 4 stars because it is the best book on the subject, and is a good read.  While it is romantic and fun to imagine oneself parking millions of dollars into some royal bank in Monaco and relaxing by the pool for the rest of your life while you pay no taxes, this is a pipe dream a sales pitch of this, and other books like it.	2003-11-28
US	39594961	R6VWL04H8TNIW	0895553538	316674814	A History of the Protestant Reformation in England and Ireland	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Proof the English 'Reformation' is a bad joke	In some arguments with authentic Protestants of the Luther and Calvin vein, I learned for the first time that an authentic protestant does not consider the protestant 'conversion' in England to be a real one.  Due to the passage of time and insufficient coverage and study of the Reformation, it was by generalized usage, that the Protestant move of England was lumped in with Calvin and Luther and Protestant thinking on the continent and also in Scotland.  <br />This book, after which I do believe Cobbett did jail time, is so much proof that the English Reformation was one bent on pillage, looting and thievery of the highest order.  The systematic looting of the manastaries, and the installment of the best and most productive thiefs into the House of Lords, thereby enshrining the families who stole the most from monastaries and hospitals and convents into the government of England up until the present day, is absolute proof of that sham called English Protestantism.  The same 'Lords' installed during this time period, where the same Lords and horrendous monarchy that the United States had to break away from.  This is the history that this book lays forth, and by and English Protestant no less.  Do not let other reviewers fool you, Cobbett was at no phase of his life, keen on kneeling before the Pope.  <br />This book is not propaganda, while the book is written in the stlye of an argument, the events, the lootings, and the revolts against the 'Protestants' all over England are given play.  Also the horror of industrialism etc., did occur as feared by Cobbett in the forms of all the child labor used in England, as well as the sale of white slaves (see my other reviews) from England Ireland and Scotland.  <br />This book allows you to make first, the leap that Protestant thought as developed by Luther and Calvin was partially adopted in England FOR THE SOLE PURPOSE OF LOOTING THE CAHTOLIC CHURCH, and secondly, you will need no other proof that the English monarchy is sodecrepid as to demand every free person mock them all in their graves.  Diana and Charles were certainly worthy heirs to that system, as Cobbett, on every page, will tell you.	2003-11-16
US	39594961	R2Y8EVOO5OE3M0	0415143586	456388435	The Roman Remains of Southern France: A Guide Book	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of a kind!	This book came highly recommended on various chat and message boards for fans of Southern France.  I totally understand why.  As the South of France and Riviera was a tremendously wealthy Roman area, it is literally full of some of the best ruins and museums devoted to the glory that was Rome to be found anywhere outside of Rome.  However, while the Roman areas of Italy are extensively documnted, there is very little on sites in France.  This book is the only and best guide to those remains.  <br />This book reviews unearthed Roman towns, such as Vaison La Romain which is 2nd in the world to Pompeii in terms of intact towns.  It maps out both the town itself, and also the layouts of many of the larger mansions that are partially standing, along with various anecdotes about the ruins.  <br />This book reviews of course, the larger aqueducts, theaters,  forums, and the like, with startling amounts of backround information on each, but this book finds many items of interest that are completely off the radar screen, such as chasms carved into rock that brought the water to towns, old Roman pipework, roadside monuments in the middle of nowhere, the best places at which to examine the old Roman roads, etc.  <br />I have used this book on two trips to the region, and find it amazing.  Even at the larger, marked, and serviced monuments, this book can take you just a little farther up the hill, or put what you are examining in a certain perspective so as to get 'the rest of the story' as Paul Harvey says.<br />This is an amazingly god book, for the intrepid traveler, the armchair archaelogist, and the itinerant tourist.  Pick it UP!	2003-04-12
US	39594961	R1VTHESB9CJEUR	0415143586	456388435	The Roman Remains of Southern France: A Guide Book	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of a kind!	This book came highly recommended on various chat and message boards for fans of Southern France.  I totally understand why.  As the South of France and Riviera was a tremendously wealthy Roman area, it is literally full of some of the best ruins and museums devoted to the glory that was Rome to be found anywhere outside of Rome.  However, while the Roman areas of Italy are extensively documnted, there is very little on sites in France.  This book is the only and best guide to those remains.  <br />This book reviews unearthed Roman towns, such as Vaison La Romain which is 2nd in the world to Pompeii in terms of intact towns.  It maps out both the town itself, and also the layouts of many of the larger mansions that are partially standing, along with various anecdotes about the ruins.  <br />This book reviews of course, the larger aqueducts, theaters,  forums, and the like, with startling amounts of backround information on each, but this book finds many items of interest that are completely off the radar screen, such as chasms carved into rock that brought the water to towns, old Roman pipework, roadside monuments in the middle of nowhere, the best places at which to examine the old Roman roads, etc.  <br />I have used this book on two trips to the region, and find it amazing.  Even at the larger, marked, and serviced monuments, this book can take you just a little farther up the hill, or put what you are examining in a certain perspective so as to get 'the rest of the story' as Paul Harvey says.<br />This is an amazingly god book, for the intrepid traveler, the armchair archaelogist, and the itinerant tourist.  Pick it UP!	2003-04-12
US	39594961	RI7658ZWN5YA5	1883536227	430352893	The Manipulated Mind: Brainwashing, Conditioning and Indoctrination	Books	3	67	70	N	Y	Good overview, nothing else	I am interested in mind control and this came recommended as a good book on the subject. However this book is one long history of research into mind control.  The book begins with a general description of the first case of actual mind control as performed on American POW's in Korea, where many were so brainwashed that they openly embraced their captors and communism.  It was at this point, the author claims, that it was realized that mind control could occur.<br />It is from this watershed event, and the data collected therefrom, that all current study of brainwashing and mind control stem.  The author then surveys the Pavlov dog experiments, animal research, various large scale experiments involving humans where unbelievable counter intuitive results occur.  This book is worth its price just to read about these studies into things like 'the gun effect' where people were actually mroe aggressive to an armed motorist getting stuck on a highway then to an unarmed one.<br />All in all, this is a general study, somewhat outdated, and is written from English points of view.  This is a book you can start with, and then use its extensive bibliography to explore areas that interest you more closely.	2003-04-12
US	39594961	R2GJYHKQQZ291W	0929903056	352586350	They Were White and They Were Slaves: The Untold History of the Enslavement of Whites in Early America	Books	5	62	79	N	N	A Paradigm shiftin novel	While I had heard of the terms redneck or redleg, little did I know that these terms originated from insults hurled by African Slaves unto White Slaves on plantations in the new world.  This is the type of information that author Hoffman transmits to the reader in this book!<br />The thrust of this book is shocking and apparantly unassailable.  Namely that the vast majority of slaves in the New World to perhaps the 1830/1840's period were poor whites enslaved by creditors, by welfare 'agencies' or perhaps kidnapped off the streets of England, Ireland, and Scotland for slave labor picking tobacco in the New World.<br />Constant acts of cruelty and inhumanity are chronicled.  Everything from entire English and Irish families being sold to different slavemasters piecemeal in different states.  Husbands and wives, one sold to work in New York, one sold to work in Georgia, never to see each other again.  Children used by the modern Victorians to clean putrid chimneys so reducing their health that the vast bulk of the merry Chimney Sweeps we see caricatured in Merry Poppins never made their 16th Birthday in real life conditions, and startlingly, the abolitionsits who advocated so hard to an end to African Slavery, in the same breath and in the same day did nothing to free their own 'white slaves' and worked and beat many to death while advocating the freeing of African slaves.<br />What does this book boil down in the final analysis.  It will assure that you will scoff at those asking for slavery reparitions, that furthermore, the vast bulk of our population with roots in North American going back before 1850 are the descendants of slaves, that indentured service was really a racket that even Benjamin Franklin had to escape from it as a boy.  Nothing could be more perfect to sum up this book than the quote from Shakespeare at the start of 'They Were White and They Were Slaves' which was \\"NOW STEP I FORTH TO WHIP HYPOCRASY\\".  <br />Hoffman's little book is an important piece of history, and will forever alter your perspective on current 'reparations' demands, the lawsuits upon companies that used to insure slaves, etc.	2003-03-11
US	39594961	R2FPI0NA2VN6Z0	1568610556	967627608	The Secure Home	Books	5	111	113	N	N	A tremendous wealth of knowledge!!	The author made a living constructing or designing high security homes and self sufficient homes, and writes this tremendous volume in a clear, all encompassing, format from his experience in the field, and from keeping abreast of new technology.  <br />Make no mistake about it, the author does not parrot information in other survival or construction books, rather everyone else copies Skousen!  This is the dictionary and encylopedia of not only secure room construction, but home construction in general.<br />After discussing some 'survival' philisophical issues, the book cuts right to the chase discussing properly laid out homes, from all angles.  Beginning with the home, from location, ground, terrain, sun exposure, vegetation, water supply, (the author sticks in little tricks, like instrad of bullet proofing walls with kevlar, just fill a chasm with sand and gravel for better and cheaper results) room layout, expansion of rooms, schematics of extending a roof, basement, etc., its all laid out.  <br />At this 'home' section the author lays out a goal for the planner, for example one goal would be 'have two seperate and distinct 'cooking heat' sources.  Using the author's techniques and recommended equipment, this can be accomplished by almost anyone.  This doubling up principle applies to everything, like water.  You get ways to store water, resivoir it, etc., all within the confines of various types of houses.  This book is good eneough that it covers the situations of like 95% of Americans.  <br />This doubling up takes the better part of the book.  From installing solar arrays in hot sunny areas, to gas, to portable generators, supply systems, high security shelters within the secure home, plumbing, transportation, sanitation, security systems, etc.  Its all covered in EXHAUSTIVE detail.<br />As this type of work project requires in some cases, tremendous effort and sometimes too, money, and this material may save your life should you ever be the subject of criminal activity, you want the best plans and ideas.  Clearly, there is no other book like this on the market period that gives so much information.  In fact this book goes so deep into construction of homes, this book is a good primer for anyone looking to buy a home, whether they want to make it secure or not.  <br />My hat definitely goes out to Joel Skousen.  He did it first and did it the best!	2003-03-08
US	39594961	R2FPJ14AQT5P01	0970587708	810664797	Cormac's Corner	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An old fashioned bard if there ever was one!	The Irish have a story telling tradition of which Cormac has been thouroughly steeped in.  Whether you read his collection of columns or hear him read them over the air or in person peppered with sly comments (Ask him to sing 'Hokus Pokus, Focus folks' ;),<BR>you will sense Ireland, and indeed, sense an Ireland that is slowly disappearing.  From the stories about the 'troubles' to the last leprechaun in Ireland who just so happens to appear to Cormac, his compilation runs the gamut of the country.  Pick this book up, there is no equal!	2003-02-24
US	39594961	R3M922BOON2TA8	0553195190	107780381	The Truth About Self Protection	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	Somewhat outdated but complete treatment of the subject!	There are a lot of self protection books on the market, but Ayoob treats most aspects of your home, the police, automobiles, robbery, etc., in a way that other authors have not.  While it might take years to implement every suggestion offered by the author, when you have digested this book, you will shift your paradigm as to how you comprehend your own vulnerability eg. how weak and ineffective most doors are, as well as to comprehend those means immediately at your disposal to protect yourself, eg. the infamous Maglite flashlight.  While there are better and more informative books written on many of the individual topics the author touches on, eg. firearms, you will, if a novice, come away with enough overall information to go out and start making concrete decisions.  There are also topics in the book that address the often futile fingerprints, use of private detectives, as well as topics you probably know nothing about, like the difference between a guard and attack dog.  If nothing else, this book will let you see who really has an idea of what they speak and who does not.  One problem is that this book is 20 years old, many topics are up to date, others are sorely outdated, like the auto theft and home security sections.  All in all, this is a good book, but expect to have to read more!	2003-02-24
US	39594961	RGH7YWS79T24G	0967025907	884770806	Send In The Waco Killers: Essays on the Freedom Movement, 1993-1998	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Libertarian Bible for the 21st cenutry!	While writing from a Libertarian and non-religious perspective, Vin takes us across the gamut of current attitudes and the hopes and aspirations of self-sufficient, liberty minded, and responsible persons everywhere.  Vin really nails it as to the virus and bacteria infection that holds this land in an ever tightening grip as it chokes our very lives.  What kind of virus is this?<br />1. The Public School.  1.6 Billion dollars later a Kansas City School still cant stop truancy and raise test scores.  Vin finally says what many have screamed from years, that you cant fix the public school system because its ALREADY WORKING.  Vin give you history of development of public schools, statistics, and then contrasts a public school with home schoolers who are doing tremendously better, at a fraction of the cost, and in fact raises test scores and perfromance across all class, and racial lines!<br />2.  Gun control.  I dont even need to describe this canard.<br />3. Unaccountable Federal Agencies.  Whether its the DEA, the INS or even the Farm bureau, the activities of various 'protectors of independance', who used to leave us sorely disappointed, but who know take family farms and get people killed.<br />4. Restriction of Jury Trials and the rights of jurors to be fully informed of their 1200 year old right to judge not only the facts of the case, but also the law!<br />5. A lapdog press that does whatever a corporate or government interest dictates.  This is why more and more Americans read European newspapers or otherwise use the internet to get the real news.  Vin documents the attitude of the press and gives personal experiences with getting his own column published.  You need to read Vin's article on the press to fully appreciate the fog let off with the current Iraq situation.<br />Now all of the above problems are such that they can be solved with the ballot box, and appropriate education.  That is why this book is important.  When the public propaganda school systemis dismantled by default, when the jurisdictions of various government agencies are curtailed by consisten not guilty verdicts by fully informed juries excercising their rights to nullify the law, this apocolyptic revolution that every right wing crackpot spouts as being inevitable will never occur, thank God.  ...	2003-02-17
US	39594961	R2E24Y4LL6OEFL	1888766050	497975522	Boston on Surviving Y2K	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Boston T. Party hits another Home Run!	Whew!  I am working my way through BTP's works like Sherman marched to the sea, and he keeps getting better.  (See my other BTP reviews!)  <br />Why would I heartily recommend a Y2K book when we all know Y2K was a complete farce, because this book is absolutely not limited to, and really not applicable anyway, to some kind of post-Y2K Def Con 4 meltdown scenario.  This, however, is a book first and foremost about the how-to's of living independantly and being disaster proof.  It is also a shopping manual.  It is also a ground up survival manual.  In detail:<br />the how to of independant living is Boston's breakdown of just want it would take to keep human beings alive and flourishing if the supermarkets stopped stocking the shelves.  You obviously need food and water, but the intricacies of providing those commodities for yourself in ample supply so as to not make yourself a refugee are covered by Boston and a farming friend of Boston in chapters covering planting of some crops, and the raising of animals for food.  The best animals and crops are discussed by Boston, along with what the animals need, fencing, pens, animal feed, butchering, and tractors and water supply and even the desireable and undesirable traits of different animals.  Unless you the reader are a farmer and butcher combined you know nothing about these topics.  I am a city kid, and I never realized what it would really take to supply a family of 4 with food and water on your own.  This book gives you a distilled roadmap of how to go about setting this up for yourself.  From tractors, equipment, etc., all of it is covered.  Although this book cant tell you everything, it is more than enough for you to sketch out most of what you would need to do for yourself.<br />The chapter on energy generation, the generators and real efficient appliances is worth double the price of the book alone.  This is an area I have studied on my own to some extent and frankly, I never really learned anything about it until I read Boston's book chapter on the topic.  I know what different currents are, and Boston rated various gas and diesel generators in terms of cost and efficiency.  Boston even goes into the storage of gasoline and diesel.  Solar and wind power is covered.  It runs the whole gamut and will cover the type of climate and conditions in your area.  <br />Boston covers RV'ing, and living in those types of arrangements.  It really is amazing how creative people can be, and how guys 'think outside of the box' and come up with all types of ways to beat the power company, the water company, the rotten corporations, high cost of hotels, etc!<br />Then all these aspects are drawn together and placed into the context of plausible scenarios for disasters and civil disruptions.  Tips like, crafts and skills to have if society is forced to go simpler for a time, why and how you should mask the fact that you have generators, and other nice tidy setups when your neighbors stuff is all 'out' and various chapters on problems one faces in disasters.<br />All in all, this is another bang up Boston book, but I think it suffers from having Y2K in the title.  Frankly, Boston should expand all the topics in the book, add a few more, and then retitle the work &quot;Boston on Independant living&quot;.  Hope to see it soon!	2003-02-14
US	39594961	R2Y6OWRLVHJEGX	1928901182	32927281	Karen Brown's France: Charming Bed & Breakfasts 2002	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Simply the Best!	I have used this little book, and so has my dear old mom!  All I can say is that it is worth every penny.  I was so happy with the B&amp;B's this book brought me to, I actually E-mailed the publisher to tell them how happy I was.  Kudos, Cheers, Props, Salutations, and big ups to Karen Brown.  I do not even look at other B&amp;B books anymore!<br />BUY IT, USE IT, YOU WILL NOT REGRET!	2003-01-27
US	39594961	R3JL13OZC4NQLU	0679764526	353697572	Knopf Guide: The Louvre (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I second the 'Reader from Germany' - The Best!	As the Louvre is just so darn big, you need this book if for no other reason than to whittle down the museum to what interests you.  New York City's Met. is big, but frankly, the whole Met. would be one half of one floor, of one wing, in the Louvre.  Most Knopf guides are very detailed and thoughtfully written and this is no exception.  Indispensible for your visit(s) to the Louvre.	2003-01-27
US	39594961	R1SPGB4W4XMWG8	0679750665	347716820	Knopf Guide: Provence (Knopf Guides)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Great book, but complimentary info, not comprehensive	I state in the reviews of the Knopf City guides that I prefer this set of books for how it deals with Cities, particulary Paris, Rome, and Venice, however, as I always begin my trip preparations by buying the Knopf guide, I started with this book.<br />The problem, I think, with this book in general, is that is tries to cover Provence and the Cote D'Azure.  It should be difficult to say those two place names in the same breath because of the sheer size of the region, but also the sheer diversity of activities and sites, but this book tries to handle them both and I think it 'covers' both scantilly, although I am a 'buff' of this area and this may be my own personal bias.<br />While Provence and Cote D'Azure cover much of the same geographic area, due to summer traffic, when you plan your trip, plan it so that you have a Provence part, and a Cote Part.  In essence, your hiking and ruin exploration part and then your beach, booze, and sun part.  But understand that in either location, there is more to do, more to see, more delightful places, more interesting and half hidden towns, then you could possibly see in a lifetime.  There is no region on Earth like it.  This Knopf book coveres hundreds of the points of interest in the area, but as one area is completely different to the next it is difficult, you cant use this book to find the niche you want to stay in, nor can you use it to get the real history of some particular monument or town.  Picking what you may want to see is very important because with summer crowds, (just about the entire French nation gets off in the summer) traffic, and getting caught in a cheesy tourist mill can dampen your trip.  This area is about superlatives, and when you go you want to be sure to get it all.  there is a reason the wealth of the world beats a path to the South of France every year!  You will see it rather quickly when you get there.<br />In my other City trips, I use Knopf guides about 95% of the time I reach into my backpack.  In The South of France or the French Alps, I use it 30% of the time, to compliment what I read somewhere else.  I recommend if you go, use the Karen Brown guide to pick a B&amp;B, then read Fodor's 'Exploring Provence' and the Rough guide too.  But always bear in mind, that many of these resort towns, or seaside towns, or mountain towns, have their own particulary slant, if you will.  None of the books on this region can adequately brief you on this.  You will just have to keep going back till you find the perfect town.  You know, the South of France was the only place I have ever been where a manager of a hotel actually recommended in French, another hotel to me, if I came back to the region.  It must have been a middle class bonding thing.  Anyway, pick up those other books, then get this one, and armed with the three of them you will be fine!<br />Happy traveling!ack.  In The South of France or the French Alps, I use it 30% of the time, to compliment what I read somewhere else.   I recommend if you go, use the Karen Brown guide to pick a B&amp;B, then read Fodor's 'Exploring Provence' and the Rough guide too.  But always bear in mind, that many of these resort towns, or seaside towns, or mountain towns, have their own particulary slant, if you will.  None of the books on this region can adequately brief you on this.  You will just have to keep going back till you find the perfect town.  You know, the South of France was the only place I have ever been where a manager of a hotel actually recommended in French, another hotel to me, if I came back to the region.  It must have been a middle class bonding thing.  Anyway, pick up those other books, then get this one, and armed with the three of them you will be fine!<br />Happy traveling!	2003-01-27
US	39594961	RFV2QD02ETCAA	0679749187	939119777	Knopf Guide: Venice (Knopf City Guides)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Best City of Venice guide	On my first trip to Italy, I spent 8 nights in Venice with this book and was not disappointed with any aspect of the descriptions, histories, and cultural commentary of the book, however, this was my first time booking a 'recommended' hotel and got burned bad.  This is why in all the Knopf books I have reviewed, I consistently state that unless you are talking about a world class place, like the Cipriani, you must use another resource to get your hotel and restaraunt picks.  While I love the Knopf guidebooks for Cities, Venice is a little 'tough'; compared to Rome, Paris, London, Dublin, or Munich and New  York  (Cities I have been to or live in).  Therefore I offer the following caveat to the traveler beyond recommending this book unconditionally.  Venice is tough, and really is a theme park.  What I mean by this is the following:  Venice lost half its native population from like 1920 to 1980.  It then lost half of what remained of its native population from 1980 to 2000.  Venice, (the main islands), has no industry, employees, or even citizens left not completely relegated to tourism.  And the tourists do come.  There were so many Americans in Venice that it felt like a mall on Long Island.  The result is that every Venetian you meet is, shall we say, a little edgy having to deal with hoardes of foreigners from 7 am till 2 am, 7 days a week!  I saw more locals being abused by tourists in Venice than anywhere else, so the locals get back at you with scams, charging for every little thing, and otherwise looking to shave am extra buck off of you at every turn.  Most of the time I do not mind this, because frankly you couldn't pay me enough to do their jobs, but the only time I have every really been fleeced was in Venice.  No Cote D'Azure, or Miami, or New York, clip joint could compare to Venice  <br />The Knopf guide really does not go into this, and I guess it really can not, but watch for the following and frankly, I dont mind paying, believe me, but I balked ata lot of the following:<br />1) Paying for every church you go into.  Paying within the church to stand on the balcony, and then pay again to go into the crypt.  Paying to light up every painting in the church you might be interested in looking at.  <BR>2) Paying every time you check your coat, and then charging you extra to hang an umbrella.  The Venice casino was a JOKE for doing this.<BR>3) Any gondolier by himself looking to give rides is double, if not triple charging.  <BR>4) Hotels will claim to be air conditioned, then charge you per night.  If you dont buy the a/c they will fill your room with skeeters by leaving the windows wide open through dusk when you are outside eating.<BR>5) The Jumping off point into the City from the mainland has 500 scams.  Do not let your rental agent hire you a water taxi cause you will be charged way over.  Any boat, car hire, porter, that is away from the main action is scamming.<br />I have always found that going into a small out of the way place with locals is part of the fun of being away, but Venetians do not want to socialize with you, the tourist, for the most part, while you are on the main islands.  You can go out to the Lido for the day, or stay in a beach hotel there, and everyone is their good old normal self again.  But do stay in Venice for a few nights, because despite all this, Venice is unique in the world, and you will feel like Othello when you walk around at night, or early in the morning you see a cat sleeping in an old well.  <br />To avoid a lot of this, stick to Rick Steves.  I think Rick is great in general, but his Italy books are indispensible.  I wish to God I had it in Venice.  But I have no regrets, because I felt something unique there.  For a fleeting glance, like taking a gondola at night with a full moon, when, in the back of some palaces you see the old water entrance and egress, you see in the light, or how the shadows look, and you hear no cars, you see something identicle to the way it was800 years ago.  In most of Europe you cant do that.  In Venice you can!	2003-01-27
US	39594961	R7L36T3IRQTKJ	0679750673	841322795	Knopf Guide: Rome (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best comprehensive Rome travel book	As I stated in the review to the Paris Knopf guide, this set of books, for cities, is the best.  This book has good maps of the Forums, and the Coliseum areas, and incredible amounts of historical information about almost every nook and cranny of the City.  As I stated for this book-set before.<br />1)  Go get a Michelin or other similar urban map, or buy one when you get to the City. <BR>2)  Dont use the hotels/restaraunts section of the book.  Info is dated, but this is to be expected.<BR>3)  Get Rick Steves for tricks and shortcuts, the Knopf book wont give you these.<br />Enjoy!	2003-01-27
US	39594961	R3N0QPYCM7ICCL	0895267845	732162595	The Path to Rome: A Portrait of Western Europe Before the World Wars	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A brilliant look at pre-war Europe.	This is surely one of the most delightful reads you will ever find.  Belloc is such a good story teller, and, writing from a Catholic viewpoint, paints a picture of Europe before World War 1, before the lights went out for 30 years of constant strife and destruction.  Along with various colorful characters along the way, some long forgotten fortresses, and the Italian Alps, Belloc weaves his travels with personal anecdotes and observations.  What a book, and it is quite a shame that his journey can not accurately be repeated by another intrepid walker!  Enjoy without reservation!	2003-01-27
US	39594961	R2ZWGYJZMC5S1J	0811818314	274667107	Cheap Sleeps in Paris	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best hotel guide to Paris	I love Sandra.  No one has put in as much legwork as she in finding smaller spots, (perhaps that are marketed mainly to other Europeans) that are in the middle of everything and are reasonably priced.  I have used this book twice, and (GASP) I gave it to my mother to use!  Everything worked out splendid.  If Sandra says a price and location in her book is as good as it gets, believe her.  If some decry that her cheap sleeps are not so cheap anymore, this may have to do with the fact that Europe in general is reaching dollar parity with the U.S.  Let the reader blame the tanking U.S. dollar for the fact he can't stay in Paris for 22$ a night anymore.  I guess I have reached an age where I do not want glitz, or fashionable place anymore.  What has become important is little of what the Irish call 'craic' and some measure of authenticity.  When Sandra says the owner is delighful, or a quintessential Frenchman, she aint kidding.  And believe me, you will remember the little things of your trip, such as what Sandra can lead you to, then the big things.  Use her book without reservation!	2003-01-21
US	39594961	R2TX2Y2YE4726E	0679755780	633093941	Knopf Guide: Restaurants Of Paris (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The culinary companion to the Knopf Paris book	If you read my review of the general Paris book, you know that I think it is the best, but the restaraunt/hotel information in the back of that book is dated, well here is the fix for that.  Unfortunately I only had this book on one trip, my last, over the pond, however if you wanted to have dinner at a new and fascinating place every afternoon and night, this is what to use.  My mom, an art deco fan, used this book to find the perfect restaraunt.  I used it to find a restaraunt built into a 1000 year old basement, not to mention fois gras vendors!  This book is worth every penny, as so much in Paris revolves around meals, and the meals and folks in the restaraunts are so interesting, you in fact, need this book.  While large portions of France have lost their Catholicism, they still have one universal religion:  FOOD!  Pick this book up, a Bible!	2003-01-21
US	39594961	R2QEOJO4E5SDYV	0679764534	734383389	Knopf Guide: Paris (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This is the sigle best general Paris guidbook available	No I do not work for the publisher, but as someone who will spend 4 months planning 14 days away. I must say if I could bring only one book, this would be it.  I have used it on every trip to Paris, and have not been led wrong by it.  The book touches upon almost every conceivable church, museum, square, fountain, etc. that is within the City proper.  If you were to study this book for 2 weeks with a larger Michelin map of the City,(one that is entirely on one looseleaf page, you could put the book down and completely navigate around the City on your own and find everything.  Yes it is that good and well thought out.  The ultimate writers of the guidebook deserve 'props' for how they did the book.  I like the Knopf guides in general, but this one is the best.<br />Some caveats:<br />1. The hotel and restaraunt section IN THIS BOOK, in the back is too short and dated.  The first and only time I booked a hotel in the back of a Knopf guidebook was in Venice and I GOT BURNED BAD!  Unless you are talking about something world renown, like the Crillon, or the Cipriani in Venice, use another guidebook! For Paris, Cheap Sleeps/Cheap Eats has never done me wrong.  In fact they have been uncommonly good.<br />2. There are a lot of tricks for getting around the City, getting into museums, etc.  You won't find them in this book, you are going to have to go to Rick Steves for that!<br />3. The guidebook cant tell you what is best to see in this City, although it is not the Knopf guidebooks fault.  It is the fault of the City of Paris.  There is so much in that City, if you step off the plane and honestly look around, your head will spin, and perhaps you will start a lifelong love affair with it, as probably millions of others have.  I don't think I have ever been happier, or more content, then sitting around drinking wine and eating frites somewhere in the Latin Quarter.  Enjoy yourself and relax, the way the U.S. and the world is going, you may not get back there for a long long time.	2003-01-21
US	39594961	R184B9ECVXQLE6	0671750402	160899734	What Cops Know	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Easy reading true crime	I guess this is why they say First prize is a week in Chicago, Second prize is two weeks in Chicago.  I like this book because it gives a large cross section of a large and rough city's Police department.  While there a million yarns about the NYPD, I do believe that for a long period of time Chicago was A LOT rougher than NYC.  I believe it has something to do with grinding urban poverty coupled with the influx of all the rural, tiny and poort elements of the American heartland (Tennessee and Kentucky, etc.) coming together.  This has always been true of Chicago's history, even from its gangland days, I believe.  The stories in the book run the gamut, from dead children, wild shootouts, and bizzare and sadistic murders.  This book would send any surbanite fleeing back out of a City.  Now in this supposedly 'reduced urban crime epoch' the young should read this book when they head to a hip urban campus and always keep in mind what most U.S. metro areas degenerate to, RATHER QUICKLY.	2003-01-21
US	39594961	R2H8ZWLT8H2H3R	1888766026	551574620	Bulletproof Privacy: How to Live Hidden, Happy and Free!	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Read this book to confirm that you have no privacy!	Great primer about all the little droppings one leaves around going about one's daily business.  Pagers, computer, internet, your home, your groceries, your automobile, etc., all the aspects are covered, albeit some more in depth than others.  You also get some real life stories about how some notorious fugitives got caught when they screwed up.  If you were ever thinking of disappearing, get this book and go from there.  If I was to say that the book had one over riding precept, it would be \\"That leaving a light trail is leaving the same thing as an obvious trail.  Any trail at all will get you caught.  Its an all or nothing game\\".  Let the fugitive beware!	2003-01-05
US	39594961	R2WNVEQ7GPD8QY	0930374096	423759382	Federal Mafia: How It Illegally Imposes and Unlawfully Collects Income Taxes	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Don't try this at home!	I love Irwin Schiff and this book, but let me tell you, this book is for informational purposes only.  The book claims to show how the Federal Gov. illegally has put in place a defacto salary and wage tax on human beings.  And he makes a darn convincing case for just that.  After reading this book, not only will you understand how the tax system works, you will also have an 'in' as to how the judicial system can work against you and how the tax system destroys wealth and our society as a whole.  Read it, you will not be disappointed, but do not so anything in this book without consulting a tax attorney.  The course of conduct the author suggests is not a simple and undangerous one.  It could result in your being jailed and/or the seizure of your assets.  And I am sure there are people behind bars who could attest to that.	2003-01-05
US	39594961	R12M23OLSWMTOR	1888766069	317200831	Boston's Gun Bible	Books	5	129	148	N	Y	A tome distilled from several dozen tomes	If you are involved in an aspect of arms ownership that is not completely relegated to target/hunting matters, then this is the book to give that person.  One problem with defensive/offensive arms and their handling, is that the entire industry of munitions as available to the U.S. civilian is made of junk, useless junk, non functioning junk, and the occassional gem.  While Boston may be able to tell you in one sentence why rifle XXX is way inferior ro rifle YYY, but in this book, first and foremost, he explains WHY one is inferior.  Then the 'why' is placed in the context of the legal availability of certain weapons.  And from that is distilled the cream.  the cream being the best available to the civilian under current regulations.  If these implements are going to be such that 'you would bet your life on them' only the cream will do.  You get a little 'combat rifle history' which will make you understand the importance of proper control placement, and why a rifle was designed a certain way.  While the book will not nail on the head the only things you should buy, what the book will do is allow you to eliminate 90% of what is not feasible and otherwise junk.  The T&E of weaponry takes up the largest part of the book.  There is also a large section concering handguns and handgun ammo.  I thought rifle ammo was neglected.  ALso the statement that 'SS109 5.56 is a major improvement over 55 graim ball' is now proven to be wrong by its performance in Afghanistan.  You then have a section on sniper rifle choice.  OUt of 300 available calibers you are honed down to perhaps 10.  An artcile on .50 cals.  .50 Cal ammo.  Night vision, I actually learned the difference between various Gen. devices.  Scopes.  Really every conceivable piece of fighting gear is touched upon.  That is why if you read this book, you will eliminate 90% of whats out there from your vision.  There are philosophical sections on the warrior mentality, philosophy, shooting, these make entertaining reading.  In all, there is no book like this, and it is worth every penny but it is not the end of knowledge, it is the beginning.  In other words, even though you may have narrowed your search for a tactical scope down to 10 models, you must then fill in the rest of the picture about the 10 and how they work and then train, train, and train some more.<br />I do have one caveat.  The author is obviously and tremendously trained in almost all aspects of martial arts.  Yes, shooting is a martial art too.  However, to my knowlegde, and Boston makes no reference to it in anything I have read by him, that he has taken down an oppenent with karate, knife, etc., or had someone in his custody and 'under his gun', much less shot anyone or been shot at.  Its not like I have either, but if Boston has one weakness, it is this.  No practical combat experience.  You might want to balance his book with other material by bona fide veterans, etc.	2003-01-05
US	39594961	R12HCCAGD5NEYZ	1888766018	816075182	You & the Police!	Books	5	48	57	N	Y	Paper Pig Repellant	What can I say, I love this little book.  I have seen dozens of little leaflets put out by attorneys about your rights during an arrest, etc., but no one comes close to addressing the myriad of ways that the average American citizen can cross swords with the Police.  The author does not come at the police like a hostile hot head, but in the tradition of Mr. Miyagi and the Karate Kid &quot;Daniel san, best way avoid punch . . no be there first place&quot; this book sets you up, <br />FIRST, to be in the position where you are likely to avoid contact with the police in the first place.  Some of the tips are obvious, like 'dont leave the Uzi and the Gorilla Bong on the back seat', some of the tips are not obvious, like 'removing nomenclature from an auto to make it look generic'.<br />SECOND, you have been approached by the police, now Boston puts you in the position to best end the encounter and get out of there before something is cooked up against you.  <br />THIRD, you are being detained, now Boston starts the clock and has various other tips and things to say at this juncture.<br />FOURTH, there are taking you in.  Boston addresses cop interrogation tricks and the like in great detail.<br />He addresses police contacts in airports, on foot, and as 90% of your contacts are likely to happen while driving, most of the book concerns drive-time action.  There is no book so concisely written that addresses the legalities of so many potential interactions with the oinkers.  <br />What the book does not have, is a detailed list of dirty cop tricks.  While a couple of nasty tricks are given play by play attention by Boston, the full range of beating, 'hard way home', evidence planting, back shooting, cop tricks are not addressed.  BUT, the reading and knowledge in this book will place you head and shoulders above 90% of the population, and perhaps even some attorneys!	2003-01-05
US	39594961	R297NA7EQ7HKB1	0970378416	662551914	Secret Societies and Psychological Warfare	Books	5	40	45	N	N	I guess there really are no co-incidences	While there are thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of books on library shelves about Freud, and this head shrinker and that one, which really constitute verbal pablum in any event, if you ever wanted to open your mind to how it is affected by symbols, crimes, and what the author terms, a 'pageant', then you must read this book.  In fact, you should read this book in any event because there are no others like it and we are all victims of mind control.  Whether its digital television and special effects perfected to such a degree as to place the viewer in a hypnotic trance, whethe its graphic on/off depicitons of violence and sex opeing up the most remote regions of your mind to influence and degredation, or maybe the advertiser, whose [agenda] is so subtle you need this book to see how it plays with your mind, Hoffman will make you see it.<br />However, make no mistake about it, the writing style is dense, the writer also make connections between everything.  You, the reader, do not have to believe that the assasination of JFK was a conspiratorial event, however what adding up the JFK post facto events (and all the other occurances mentioned in the book) will make you see that:<br />1)  A bunch of conspiratorialists, following their theology, caused event x, and then followed through with their theology by doing y after the fact;  or<br />2)  A bunch of conspiratorialists did not cause event x, but, believing their theology to have caused it, followed through with their theology after the fact by doing y;<br />You see in either case your mind is played with.  the theology is symbols in a way, which convey messages to people who can read them.  The public and staged events of JFK, 9/11, and now the Virginia Sniper all have occult and conspiratorial aspects that are not entirely evident.  The author will make you look at why people design architecture a certain way, or put a building in a certain place, or otherwise do bizzare acts.  You would be surprised how many pseudo religious, mental triggers, and other occultic concepts are meshed into architecture, main stream religion, lifestyles, scientific concepts, and even national goals.<br />In any event, get this little book and open the door a crack in your favor, and close it a crack against all those forces that would degenerate you into a consumer of [worthless items].	2003-01-04
US	39594961	RX3UL7TPHSIFW	0873491866	180982267	The Gun Digest Book of Combat Handgunnery, 4th Edition	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Definitive Handgun Book	See my review of the original Hangun Combat book.  This is the refined and updated version.  The best you will find, and everyone will find a good deal of knowledge from this book.  Taylor is one the best instructors in the world, and if you cant get to his school, than get the book, and if you can or have been to his school, get the book!	2002-12-30
US	39594961	R10BH6II3QOXT9	0873643275	891524202	The Complete Book of Combat Handgunning	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	The all time classic on the subject.  Must reading.	As someone who has attended some classes instructed by Taylor, you realize that out of thousands of columnists and gun writers, he is clearly 'been there and done that'.  Now there may be many people with as much combat experience as he has attained, however Taylor refined his technique, and has done so for a very long time.  He is not out there teaching the Swiss Army, La Legion, or Seal Team Six because he is a couch crusader.  Taylor is also set apart from most because he can write.  Taylor has distilled the majority of his experience and techniques into this book.  This book is the original Combat Hangunnery Book, and it is already to its Fourt Edition.  Now naturally some material in this book is dated, but I have this along with the current edition because it fills in some of the theoretical underpinning of his current techniques.  It also lets you see that the techniques have not changed all that much in the last 10 or 15 years.  I wish I had bought this book when I first started to practice with hanguns as I would not have necessarily bought the same guns.  I now, of course, use a 1911, as does everyone else eventually.  <br />Get this book, dry practice, then go take a Taylor course, you WILL NOT be disappointed.  He will stop you from wasting time and ammo developing bad habits, and rapidly improve your skill, yes even cops could learn for Taylor.	2002-12-30
US	39594961	R3NF0UP8WBHMRB	0870001701	358478524	Race war in high school;: The ten-year destruction of Franklin K. Lane High School in Brooklyn	Books	3	17	19	N	Y	Important but disorganized chronicle of school destruction	Going back and forth to school in Brooklyn, and then later working in one of the neighborhoods devastated by the desegragation canard, made me an urban historian with a book in my head that still remains to be written.  Also, doing some family geneology and ethnic geneology of Brooklyn and New York County led me to do some urban exploration which, EARLY, on a Sunday morning would find me creeping around 150 year old churches, examining statues honoring the war dead of WW1, the Kings County armory etc.  I wanted to know more about how the finest neighborhoods in the world circa 1880-1949 were so completely, and utterly destroyed in a 20 year period. I looked for books on race rioting, desegregation, blockbusting, integration, etc., and the only one I have found thus far that was on target was the 'Destruction of Franklin K. Lane'.<br />The author, a teacher at Lane through the 60's, chronicles the events that led to decent people vacating the neighborhood, rioting, looting, assaults on teachers including setting one on fire after shooting flammable fluids on him, that otherwise put one more coffin into East New York.  Surprisingly enough, a colation of 'social activists' 'black panthers', a 'corrupt mayoralty' and a zoning irregularity resulted in the destruction of a school that was already desegregated proir to Court decisions mandating busing and desegregation.  Author Saltzman is also honest as he too, at the time anyway, supported integration if same was done properly.  Therefore I believe his book deserves extra credence.<br />The book is problematic because it is not chronological and refers to the same event by different nicknames.  Some chapters appear to go over the same set of events from different perspectives, but this takes place throughout the book making the entire picture somewhat difficult to grasp.<br />What you do get with this book is an honest man's grounded view of school beaurocracy, police, the mayor, the teacher's unions, and various revolutionary groups who were laughing all the way.  You get gems of urban history that the useless teacher's unions forget to mention when they hail the education revolution of the 60's, like the fact that Lane High School's rifle team stopped race rioting Lane students from destroying and looting Cypress Hills by firing their rifles at them.  When do hear that repeated by  . . . .<br />As always, real history is stranger than fiction, and any urban historian or honest cultural critic should have this book on their shelf, and then go drive to Bushwick, East New York, Bedford Stuyvesant, etc., and see the brickwork, the stained glass in the churches, the architecture, and then contemplate how much of America's finest places have been ruined, perhaps for good.  The area in Brooklyn by the Interboro spilloff is full of these things, and they are worth a look!	2002-12-30
US	39594961	R2H2MIM3ERZOXJ	087364297X	279468085	The Fighting Rifle: A Complete Study of the Rifle in Combat	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	The Definitive Combat Rifle Book	As someone who has taken courses with Taylor, this is the definitive work on the subject and I believe represents the best and most concise available source to civilians by where they can learn the actual uses for various military rifles, deployment of same, etc.  As we have all been poisoned by movies and TV, where we see the guy with the Uzi pistol take out rifle toting goons at 300 yards, our minds have to be de-toxed from the umpteen years of garbage implanted there and this book it as close as you can come to an enema to remove that.  Each infantry arm, SMG, Shotgun, Carbine and Battle Rifle are addressed, from both a select fire and semi fire perspective.  The carrying and deployment of same is addressed.  Practical applications, like muzzle blast, carrying of magazines, changing of magazines, are all addressed.  While some of the material is dated, and several of Taylor's shooting techniques have been modified by him to make them better and quicker, whether or not you could ever go to one of this classes, this book and diligent practice of its techniques will put you a mile on top of everyone else.	2002-12-30
US	39594961	R2UX4O4ZN0QSAD	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	91	140	N	Y	Western Cultural Rot Concisely and Fully Exposed	Read the book at work because I could not put it down.  A cultural follow up to Pat's political 'A Republic Not and Empire', I must say that this is Pat's most important work, and the finest and most concise thrashing of every political, cultural and social fad to have arisen in the West since World War 1.  Many works have been done on one aspect of North America and/or Europe's cultural destruction however Pat, in only 268 pages LINKS art, education, the university, the 60's, the Baby Boomers, the Reagan years, Generation X, the gay rights movement, feminism, etc. the student movements of the 60's etc., AS OCCURING ON BOTH SIDES OF THE ATLANTIC, and then forms the thrust, namely that a social and cultural deconstruction, born out of rabid Marxism, aimed primarily at cultural and Christian religious institutions, has sought a 'Revolution' which in almost all measures has WON, and now post facto, we must, as Christians, as Europeans, as the people whose ideas and culture have conquered the world, comprehend the fact that there will be no more of us left should current birth trends continue.  Pat uses extensive footnoting and documentation and beats 20th century tin gods to death with their own words. With 9/11 fresh in our minds this work takes on special relevance given that given 50 years we will not have sufficient man power available to fight a large scale war.  As a 26 year old, I must say the Western world does indeed look bleak.  The book is prophetic, but it does not do anything more then hint at other possbilities down the road.  For example, would massive amounts of third world alients brought into Europe spark a backlash resulting in insurrecton, or secession of provinces in places like Italy and Germany or the U.S. Northwest?  Or would we resort to some sort of Orwellian program of killing off the elderly to avoid having to pay for social security.  In that regard, Pat avoids becoming a fortune teller, however regardless of the avenue taken, the reader can easily see that the results will be violent and brutish no matter how it goes down.  Perhaps Gucci and Versace should start manufacuring full face veils in anticipation of when the Holy Men prohibit women in public without them.  I leave it to other readers to discuss whether we should blame those persons who intentionally sought out the destruction of the West, or those who were to stupid to realize what was happening.n easily see that the results will be violent and brutish no matter how it goes down.  Perhaps Gucci and Versace should start manufacuring full face veils in anticipation of when the Holy Men prohibit women in public without them.  I leave it to other readers to discuss whether we should blame those persons who intentionally sought out the destruction of the West, or those who were to stupid to realize what was happening.	2001-12-27
