US	39618214	R4L80D3UQ4GKP	0193533227	796802545	The New Oxford Book of Carols	Books	5	8	13	N	Y	Simply the Best!	The Holly Olde Time Dickens festival up in Holly, Michigan, is the place to go to experience an old fashioned Dickensian Christmas. Held every weekend from Thanksgiving through the weekend before Christmas, this free festival includes the 'Christmas Carol' play, recitations of 'The Night Before Christmas,' 'The Twelve Days of Christmas,' as well as having chestnut vendors, sellers of fish and chips, and numerous gift shops set up in shanties among the Victorian streets laced with Victorian buildings. Seeing the 30+ period dressed Dickens actors roaming the entire area completes the picture.<br /><br />The sounds you will hear as you stroll with Mr. Scrooge, Bob Cratchit, or even the Ghost of Jacob Marley is the beautiful music of the holiday. Whether it is the amazing choir of the Festival Singers or the quaintness of the Simply Dickens singers, the sounds of Christmas fill the air.<br /><br />Much of what you hear at the festival stems from the 'New Oxford Book of Carols,' the old style tunes of long ago such as \\"Gloucestershire Wassail,\\" \\"Boar's Head Carol,\\" \\"Riu Riu Chiu,\\" \\"A Virgin Unspotted,\\" \\"The Holly Bears a Berry,\\" and so much more. For the three and four part harmony needed to accurately portray these carols, this book cannot be beat.<br /><br />Broken down by era (from the middle ages up into the 20th century) as well as by country (mostly European and American), whatever period of Christmas you would like to sing of, it's here.<br /><br />Since this Book of Carols also includes \\"O Come All Ye Faithful,\\" \\"Hark! The Herald Angels Sing,\\" and many other well-known songs, it could very well be the only Christmas Carol book you may ever need!	2005-08-13
US	39618214	R1PYITF42857PN	0764306189	906025806	Firestorm at Gettysburg: Civilian Voices June-November 1863	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	A Personal Look at the Lives of Civilian Gettysburg 1863	After reading the good and bad reviews of this book I felt I had to add my two cents, for what it's worth.<br />  This is a very personal look at what was certainly a very nerve-wracking time for the poor folks living in the town of Gettysburg during the period of the Rebel invasion of late June / early July 1863. While the soldiers were fighting in the nearby fields, the civilian citizens were in the midst of their own invasion - first the Rebels, then the Yanks, then the leftovers of the dead and wounded.<br />  What makes this book so intriguing is that it is almost exclusively in the words of those who were there, either taken from the diaries and journals of the citizens, or from the newspaper accounts, or from the memories of some of the folks a few years after. This makes for very intimate reading that brings the reader face to face with not only the folks of Gettysburg but up close to the horror and 'excitement' that they felt.<br />  The photographs and lite biographies of many of the residents included help to bring it all home. In fact, this book would make a phenomenal movie (anybody listening out there?).<br />  The reason I did not give this book a score of five was because of the typos and some of the misinformation written by messrs. Slade and Alexander. But, don't let that stop you from purchasing it - there are not that many mistakes (not that I condone these mistakes). Knowing that the majority of the words herein are the first hand accounts of the actual eyewitnesses of the insanity (and it WAS insane!) of the town of Gettysburg while the majority of soldiers fought only a short distance away on the battlefields should make any Civil War history buff crave a book such as this (as well as \\"Days of Uncertainty and Dread\\" - another Gettysburg civilian book that goes hand in hand with \\"Firestorm\\").<br />  Through \\"Firestorm at Gettysburg: Civilian Voices,\\" the citizens of Gettysburg deservedly live once again. Well worth the money.	2005-07-15
US	39618214	R1SO4RMDN8OBTD	0964359936	138243913	Days of Uncertainty and Dread: The Ordeal Endured by the Citizens at Gettysburg	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Would Make A Great Movie	For anyone who feels the Battle of Gettysburg took place strictly on the battlefields are sorely mistaken, as \\"Days of Uncertainty and Dread: The Ordeal Endured by the Citizens at Gettysburg\\" will attest. This book is an amazing find - an encapsulating historic window to the past at an event rarely discussed when studying the Battle of Gettysburg. What the citizens of Gettysburg endured during this time in our nations history goes beyond the scope of humanity. The fear for weeks and months before hand of hearing \\"The Rebels are coming!\\" preyed on the nerves of these 19th century folk like we've never experienced in our lifetime. Then to have the Confederates actually show up and take over the village (followed shortly thereafter by Union troops) - quite an ordeal, if you ask me.<br />In this book you'll read various true stories about the men and women who lived in Gettysburg during those trying days through the many journal and diary quotes. Our 19th century ancestors wrote with such finness and feeling that it is not hard to see through their eyes the horrible happenings on the streets of their town. I literally could not put this book down. Tillie Pierce, Jennie Wade, Catherine Foster, and so many other Gettysburg civilians tell their story through their own words with narrative help from author Gerald Bennett, who writes in quite a lively style. As the title for my review states, the happenings in the town of Gettysburg during the whole summer of 1863 (not just the three days of the battle) would make an excellent movie (if done right) - maybe a Gettysburg Part II. Is anyone listening?<br />Truly fascinating.	2005-05-24
US	39618214	R1HGT8R0UOAGFZ	0394709411	105150070	The Good Old Days: They Were Terrible!	Books	4	8	14	N	N	The Other Side of Life	To both the yay and nay reviewers of this book: Can you imagine what future historians will write about our time? War, awful economy, high crime in all major cities, terrorism, immorality everywhere...and yet, we survive and make do with what we have. We still go about our daily lives.<br />As is here in the 21st century, the 19th century had its problems. It was filled with much of what Mr. Bettmann writes about here in his Good Old Days book: dirty water, manure filled streets (although there were street sweepers in most major cities constantly cleaning up throughout the day), long hard work days, and much more.<br />But, it was a simpler time for many: morals missing in today's society (yes, unmentionables happened, but they were just that-unmentionable. Not everyone needed to know other's business), people in general had a much closer-nit family life, neighbors willing to help, people were not afraid to work, and, yes, it was a three mile per hour world.<br />Consider yourself enlightened when you read a book such as this along with the other, brighter side of the 19th century books. It wasn't Mr. Bettmann's purpose to write about what was already written. His goal was to open the eyes of the Hollywood Historians (if you know what I mean - Hollywood very rarely (if ever) accurately portrays history).<br />History is my passion and I have multiple books on the same subjects for the sole reason of getting a more complete picture. Not everyone in the 19th century lived in the squalor and loneliness the author portrays here, but a good many did, just as many still do in our day.<br />Many people had a fine life during that time, and it wasn't just the well-to-do.<br />I guess if I did have a complaint about this book it would be that Mr. Bettmann tended to be a bit pro-European. Like another reviewer wrote, if Europe was so wonderful, why were they immigrating to the U.S. in droves?<br />Aside from that, though, this is a good book to show the other side of the 19th century. Get it and keep it along side your other Victorian America books.century. Get it and keep it along side your other Victorian America books.	2005-04-14
US	39618214	R3CIB8Z657IE17	0939631814	559132534	Who Wore What?: Women's Wear 1861-1865	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Very Well Done	I must disagree with some of the previous reviewers on a number of issues about this book on women's clothing styles of the Civil War period.<br />First off, Ms. Leisch IS a clothing and social historian, contrary to what another reviewer wrote. I have read other works by her and have checked numerous points she has made with other writings and she has always been right on the mark.<br />As for the complaints that this book is considered 'absolute truth' by some is not Ms. Leisch's fault. She states within the first two paragraphs of her Introduction that there were women in the 1860's that did not follow the norm and styles of the day, just as today's women have a mix of different looks and do not always follow the trends. If some take what she writes of the past styles as gospel, well, then I guess that is their own doing.<br />Now, why is a guy interested in a book such as this?<br />My wife and I (as well as our children) are reenactors in a Civil War unit and, as all reenactors should do, we try to learn all we can of life during that period in time. We are striving to represent as accurately as we can the personas we have chosen, which means lots of research and double checking. By reading of the social history of the time - the how's and why's of both sexes - can one truly immerse themselves into the past.<br />Anyone of us living in our modern day and age can easily describe what women wear today, just as, I'm sure, the same sort of folk could have 145 years ago. But, with books such as this one, we can at least make a very accurate attempt to emmulate those who lived a century and a half ago, and to understand the why and wherefores of the styles of another age.<br />Ms. Leisch has done a find job in this book as well as her book An Introduction to Civil War Civilians. She's done her homework in both cases.	2005-02-27
US	39618214	R3GT6W5Y66I2VF	0811833607	138890758	From Fields of Fire and Glory: Letters of the Civil War	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Humbling	There are not many books that bring the Civil War to life in such a way as this one does by Rod Gragg. To read the actual letters written by Civil War soldiers - both North and South - in their own hand is one of the most humbling experiences this social historian has ever had in studying history. Letters describing battles, life in camp, camaraderie between soldiers, and a particularly gruesome first person account by a Quaker nurse's experiences during surgery. One very sad letter written by a dying soldier (who's own blood stained the letter itself) told his father of \\"the particulars of my death. I would like to rest in the grave yard with my dear mother and brothers...Let us all try to reunite in heaven...\\"<br /><br />First person accounts such as these gave me quite a humbling experience. Then to have the photographs and a bit of biographical information of those who wrote these vignetts of a long ago time just about brings it all home.<br /><br />I cannot recommend enough this truly amazing book. It gives one a whole new perspective of the War Between the States (as it was known then), every bit as much as Ken Burn's documentary.<br /><br />If there ever was a book that brings the past to life, this is it.	2005-01-17
US	39618214	R2XGFX68P9GRR8	0964083612	416148906	The Christmas Revels Songbook in Celebration of the Winter Solstice: Carols, Processions, Rounds, Rituals & Children's Songs	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of a Kind	On every weekend between Thanksgiving and Christmas (four and sometimes five weekends a year) there are about 35 to 50 of us costumed actors and reenactors who participate in putting on the Holly Old Tyme Dickens Festival up in Holly, Michigan. Held outside in the closed off streets of this beautiful Victorian village, we literally turn it into London of 1843 with vendors of all types (food, hot roasted chestnuts, and other oddities) hawking their wares, A Christmas Carol play put on twice daily, many different types of street entertainment, and, of course, Christmas music. Choirs, waits, wassailers, musicians...a constant flow of music can be heard at any given time.<br />I happen to manage a group of high schoolers (and recent grads) who go by the name Simply Dickens. They are a vocal quartet (and sometimes a trio) that performs at the above said Dickens Festival. Much of their time is spent learning and singing the traditional old world carols, many of which have been long forgot. But the Christmas Revels have revived, through their numerous Christmas CD's, a multitude of these long lost gems. And now the Christmas Revels put a large chunk of what they have recorded into music book form! And it's from this music book that Simply Dickens get much of their material that they perform at the Holly Dickens Festival.<br />The song titles may seem strange at first (Abbots Bromley Horn Dance, Cherry Tree Carol, Wondrous Love, Gower Wassail, Wexford Carol, etc.) which is why I would recommend getting the CD's first so you could actually hear what these wonderful old tunes sound like, THEN order the music book.<br />I don't believe there is a finer collection of Christmas music available in one set - CD or book - and I would highly recommend this set to anyone whose Christmas Music interests go beyond Santa Coming To Town, Grandma getting run over by a reindeer, and Rudolph's shiny nose.	2004-10-09
US	39618214	RBUHBD5OT7E1P	0939631709	880865533	An Introduction to Civil War Civilians	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Title Says It All	I purchased this book at my first real Civil War reenactment at the Civil War Muster in Jackson, Michigan. Since my wife and I are portraying civilians and our eldest son is a Union soldier this book came quite handy. What I like most is how it delves into the psyche of the people of the times - how they thought and why they thought the way they did - as this has certainly helped in the accuracy of our portrayal of 1860's civilians, especially for my wife who has never really been very much into history (although she is now!). Where most books give information of the times, this one by Juanita Leisch helps one to live and act as a person of the past.<br /><br />If I had one complaint it would be the length - I wish it were a bit longer. But that is a minor thing; the author packs a wallup in these 81 pages that encyclopedias barely touch!	2004-08-31
US	39618214	R1RGUUTLOKUZSV	1932399038	899424525	A Distant Thunder: Michigan in the Civil War	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Well Worth The Money	Richard Bak has done it again. The man has quite a &quot;can't put this down&quot; writing style that is as informative as any text available on the subject on which he is writing.<br /><br /> To find a book dedicated strictly to Michigan's role in the Civil War - and it was quite a role - has been a dream of mine for many years. Unfortunately, Civil War historians in general tend to overlook states like Michigan and play up Maine (Chamberlain), New York, and Massachusetts. The fact is Michigan played a very important part in the War Between the States, so much so that, in 1861, when 798 men from the 1st Michigan Infantry arrived in Washington D.C. as reinforcements for the nation's capitol, President Lincoln exclaimed, &quot;Thank God for Michigan!&quot;<br /><br /> Michigan's regiments were involved in nearly every major battle of the war, and there was even a song written about some of them called &quot;Michigan My Michigan.&quot; In the 10 stanza tune, the lyrics proclaim 'Thou gav'st thy sons without a sigh, and sent thy bravest forth to die...,' and goes on to give accounts of the many battles including Shiloh, Yorktown, and Richmond. The complete lyrics are right here on pages 32 and 33 with the story of how and why it was written.<br /><br /> Another very interesting fact that I had never heard until I read this book was that Henry Ford, the man who put the world on wheels, was still in his mother's womb when two of his mother's brothers were fighting in the Battle of Fredericksburg. One was killed and one was wounded in that battle, and Henry, who was born at the beginning of Gettysburg, always believed he was the reincarnation of a dead Civil War soldier. It goes on to say that both of his uncles' sacrifices and death helped to fuel Mr. Ford's lifelong pacifism.<br /><br /> There is more to this particular story that is very interesting and slightly peculiar. You must, however, read the book to find out what it is.<br /><br /> Besides the battles, the author covers a wide variety of topics and subjects throughout his 227 pages of text, including the military draft, military life, life on the homefront, facts and figures for Michigan soldiers, and a close up look at a number of individuals - male, female, soldier, civilian, young, and old - who played prominent roles in the war, both on the battlefield and at home.<br /><br /> And this book is loaded with photographs!<br /><br /> As a fourth generation Michiganian (and am now raising the 5th generation in our family line), 'A Distant Thunder - Michigan In The Civil War' really brings home (and brings to life) this 140 year old plus war, and Richard Bak's lively writing style will seemingly visually take you back to those heartfelt days.<br /><br /> An excellent book for high school age on up.of topics and subjects throughout his 227 pages of text, including the military draft, military life, life on the homefront, facts and figures for Michigan soldiers, and a close up look at a number of individuals - male, female, soldier, civilian, young, and old - who played prominent roles in the war, both on the battlefield and at home.  <br /> And this book is loaded with photographs! <br /> As a fourth generation Michiganian (and am now raising the 5th generation in our family line), 'A Distant Thunder - Michigan In The Civil War' really brings home (and brings to life) this 140 year old plus war, and Richard Bak's lively writing style will seemingly visually take you back to those heartfelt days. <br /> An excellent book for high school age on up.	2004-07-21
US	39618214	RZCZNU0OKT1EJ	0973130342	47216214	More Dating Old Photographs	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Good Introduction	As they say, a picture is worth a thousand words, and &quot;More Dating Old Photographs&quot; would have to be considered an encyclopedia when it comes to dating and identifying old pictures. This is a very useful book for the social historian or the genealogist. By studying the actual 19th and early 20th century photographs in this book - and there are hundreds of pictures from the 1840's through the 1910's - one would have the ability to closely identify not only the era of the photo they may have in question, but, in doing so, may even discover who the mystery person in the photograph might be.<br />Halvor Moorshead has taken a very unique approach to this genre by pretty much letting the pictures do the talking.<br />But, there are some minuses to this, however. Even though there is a couple of pages in the front of the book helping to explain  some details, I feel there should be more written information for those of us who are novices to period clothing and styles. I think maybe an introduction to each decade/chapter would've been a far greater help than just the photos.<br />But, don't let this stop you from purchasing this book. The photographs alone make it more than worth the money.<br />A great historical scrapbook.	2004-07-17
US	39618214	RFT49LCJLDAOA	189054101X	965909304	Letters Home	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Civil War Brought To Life	Judging by the price of this book I must assume that this is the complete collection of five &quot;Letters Home&quot; paperback/pamphlets available. If this is the case then it's worth every penny. My son, on a school trip to Gettysburg, bought the whole set for me.<br />Having recently joined a Civil War reenactment regiment, I have been attempting to study the every day lives of the Civil War soldier, from their clothing and accessories to the food they ate. But nothing brings one in any closer to learning about these heroes of the past than their intimate thoughts, citing their fears and dreams as well as their pasttime entertainment. &quot;Letters Home&quot; reveals under no uncertain terms the soul of the Civil War soldier. This is where you'll read about first hand accounts of the infamous battles that were previously written by historians many years after the fact. Imagine living back in 1863 and receiving a letter from your brother, who is in Gettysburg, stating &quot;I expect we will get into it this afternoon or tomorrow, I think the Rebs will be pretty well used up this bout, and I hope the War will not continue much longer.&quot; Follow this with a letter from another Gettysburg soldier stating &quot;I will write a long letter as soon as the march is over, that is if I live. He who has kept me from harm in former battles can do so in the future; therefore I put my trust in Him.&quot; Or my particular favorite: &quot;My health is good, but I feel unpleasant on account of not having had a clean shirt for 24 days. I suppose that accounts for the itching sensation I have.&quot;<br />Sorta brings history to your door, doesn't it? Couple these 90 or so letters with numerous pictures and you will have a fascinating look at the Civil War from those who were there.<br />It seems that the author, Alan Sessarego, is a reenactor and collector himself and, considering the fact that many Civil War movie producers of late have been using reenactors to accurately recreate the War in their big budget flicks, one would be hard-pressed to find a better collection of history that brings this time in America to life than the private letters of the battle worn heroes of the Civil War.<br />Just make sure it is the complete set for the price marked.e War in their big budget flicks, one would be hard-pressed to find a better collection of history that brings this time in America to life than the private letters of the battle worn heroes of the Civil War.<BR>Just make sure it is the complete set for the price marked.	2004-06-22
US	39618214	RQG5QLL9WNMBG	0878331956	327791922	The Day Lincoln Was Shot: An Illustrated Chronicle	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best of Its Kind	This is an excellent book!! Richard Bak successfully brings the past to life in his natural and descriptive writing style, and in 'The Day Lincoln Was Shot,' he successfully takes the reader back to the events leading up to that fateful night at Ford's Theater. But that's not all - we're also privy to the final hours of Booth's life as well, and even to the horrid (and extremely biased) court proceedings and outcome that, in a number of unfortunate cases, brought death to innocent people caught in the wrong place at the wrong time.<br />Mr. Bak does not take sides in the text. He presents the facts as they were at the time combined with our discoveries over the last 140 years. This is what makes this book so thoroughly enjoyable and exciting.<br />Being a relatively extensive but quick read, 'The Day Lincoln Was Shot' is highly recommended for anyone, be they high schoolers or older, who want to know the truth behind the conspiracy of the death of our 16th president.	2004-06-09
US	39618214	RWM01PWTY1WW0	0752413856	911659874	Detroit 1860-1899 (Images of America (Arcadia Publishing))	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Here's Our Past	I love these Arcadia Books. The snapshots of long ago with the informative captions say so much more than many of the extensively written history books. I guess it's true when they say a picture is worth a thousand words.<br />Beginning with Detroit's involvement in the Civil War, the reader is taken on a journey through the people, places, and advertisements that was Detroit in the 19th century. I especially like seeing the shots of the street corners that still exist to this day, but, my - how it's changed! And that's probably my biggest complaint about Detroit: where most major cities treasure its past, Detroit and the surrounding suburbs love to tear down its history.<br />At least we have the photographs to see the long ago beauty of the city. And it was a beautiful city.<br />One of the most very interesting set of photos are the shots taken of Civil War soldiers at Fort Wayne, training for battle. I myself am part of a Civil War reenactor's unit and have done drills on the very same grounds inside of Fort Wayne as those men of long ago, seeing the very same bricks and tunnels (shown in the photos in this book!) that they have seen all those years ago. Very humbling.<br />These Arcadia books really help to bring the past alive - to see how people and places of long ago really looked by using actual very old photographs, not an artists conception as in the colony days many years before the advent of photography.<br />I have many of these books and will continue to purchase them as long as they're done in this high quality fashion.	2004-06-09
US	39618214	RWX2VTPJG6JAZ	0738531758	712184299	Eastpointe   (MI)  (Images  of  America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Rate	This collection of pictures will give the reader of this book quite an overview of the history of the city of Eastpointe. Spanning the mid-19th century through 2003, the photographs selected show, page by page, our city evolving from a small backwoods farming community to the epitome of suburbia in the 21st century. Ms. Pixley's well researched comments on each shot helps to bring the past alive again. As this book also shows, many of this area's &quot;founding fathers&quot; still have descendents living here - one descendent still lives in the same house her ancestors built back in the 1850's!<br />It's so hard to believe that some of the older pictures were actually taken here in Eastpointe: There's 9 Mile as a dirt road from 1900; an original photo of the 1872 schoolhouse (which, by the way, is still standing and has been fully restored); 8 Mile (yes, THE 8 Mile) and Gratiot from the late 19th century where Hunds store was located (looks like a scene out of the old west!).<br />This book is a pleasure to look at and read over and over. If you have ever been a resident of Eastpointe/East Detroit, or are just a fan of social history, I highly recommend this book.<br />By the way, it was not racists who voted for the name change from East Detroit to Eastpointe. It was because, too often, our city, which is a very clean, safe, family friendly area, was confused with Detroit which has, let's face it, a very high crime rate. That's not black or white - that's fact. I personally did not mind the name East Detroit, but I respect those who voted for the name change.	2004-02-24
US	39618214	RNPG4DL9GB8L4	0393051587	419595190	The Annotated Christmas Carol: A Christmas Carol in Prose (The Annotated Books)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	The Ultimate &quot;Carol&quot;	Simply amazing! That is the best description I can give of this version of Dickens' &quot;A Christmas Carol.&quot;<br />How many times have you ever read this wonderful novel, but overlooked many parts because it may have seemed long-winded, or maybe you just didn't quite understand the Victorian language that Dickens used (and why wouldn't he?)? Being a student of Dickensian England, this book thoroughly explains every minute detail of the time period in which this story takes place (1843) through the story itself. So much so that, in fact, that after completing this encyclopedia (for it truly is an encyclopedia), I felt as if I understood completely what the readers of the time of Dickens must have felt after reading the first edition 160 years ago. Words, sentences, phrases - all explained desciptively so as one now knows what Dickens actually meant when writing them. It opened my eyes much wider to the WHOLE story, not just the fluff we've all come to know. And, as mentioned in other reviews, you get the complete original novel as well as the 'reading to the public' version, along with a very informative introduction.<br />I have reviewed several different &quot;Christmas Carol&quot; books - all of which are excellent in their own right. But this version, however simply put, takes the cake!	2003-12-18
US	39618214	RLFNNTTEHQCB6	1551114763	419595190	A Christmas Carol	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Step Above Most Other Versions	I am not going to review the Charles Dickens novel 'A Christmas Carol' in this review. I did that already (see my other reviews to read that), and, of course, I gave it 5 stars.<br />What I'd like to comment on is the extra's this version brings. For instance, the original art work from the first edition by artist John Leech are here, placed where they were originally. There are also the actual 1843 and 1844 critics reviews in this book so one can see what was originally thought about this classic at the time of its release.<br />Author Richard Kelly gives his perspective on the reasoning behind Dickens writing this ghostly Christmas story - the why's and wherefore's of the characters and scenes, which, for me, gave a little more of an understanding of what may have been going through Mr. Dickens mind at the time.<br />Mr. Kelly also writes a bit on child labor, education, and the workhouse, which, again, opens the mind a bit more in reading this story.<br />There is also a chapter that has many writings by Dickens contemporaries, such as Washington Irving, and their own descriptions of Christmas in their time.<br />Believe it or not, there is quite a bit more in this book than what I've told you, including, of course, &quot;Carol&quot; itself. It makes a very interesting read and can help one to understand the purpose behind Dickens original classic, as well as of the times in which he wrote.<br />A lot to read at a very good price. There are many many versions of 'A Christmas Carol' available, but this one takes it a bit further than most.	2003-11-28
US	39618214	RS7YC2YYDBSHP	0810945347	633420844	Dickens' Christmas: A Victorian Celebration	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Welcome to 1843	Nothing says Victorian more than Christmas, and this excellent book by Simon Callow presents a Victorian Christmas as seen through the eyes of the most popular of the Victorian era authors. Charles Dickens unintentionally reinvented the way we celebrate that glorious holiday by one short novel he wrote in 1843 called 'A Christmas Carol.' At the time of writing, the Christmas celebrations he described in his little book were virtually non-existant, but it was Mr. Dickens' descriptions of the way he felt that Christmas should be celebrated that took England, then America, by storm. The party at Fezziwig's, nephew Fred's gathering of friends and family, the Cratchit's meager only in sight celebration. All in descriptive detail. And it's because of Dickens' view on the matter that we celebrate the holiday the way we do now.<br />Mr. Callow's book gives the reader a full view of an early Victorian Christmas celebration in a number of ways. First and foremost, the complete as it was written novel of 'A Christmas Carol' is here so one can read how it all began. Callow's book goes on to explain the holiday feasts that the celebrants partook in as the Christmas Season grew in popularity, as well as the many traditions - old and new - that became popular. One very old tradition that is still carried on today is wassailing - that is, the singing of Christmas Carols for money or hot chocolate, although in days of old, the waites sang for money or a fruity rum-laced drink!<br />There are plenty of original 19th century drawings and paintings throughout to give the book the look of Dickens' time.<br />As this book rightfully states, the only images of Christmas that owe nothing to Dickens are those of the Nativity and of Father Christmas/Santa Claus. Well...ok...the Christmas Tree was introduced to the English through Prince Albert.<br />I love the Christmas Season and, besides the original Biblical account of the birth of Christ, 'A Christmas Carol' in its many movie versions as well as, of course, the original Dickens writing, is the epitome of the spirit of the holiday. This book by Simon Callow will help anyone who desires to have a Dickens Christmas celebration of there own, either through  thoughts while reading it or, if you would like to take it a step further, by having your own Victorian/Dickens Christmas party.<br />This book by Simon Callow, by the way, is well worth your hard earned dollar.s, of course, the original Dickens writing, is the epitome of the spirit of the holiday. This book by Simon Callow will help anyone who desires to have a Dickens Christmas celebration of there own, either through  thoughts while reading it or, if you would like to take it a step further, by having your own Victorian/Dickens Christmas party. <BR>This book by Simon Callow, by the way, is well worth your hard earned dollar.	2003-11-12
US	39618214	R243JTWO01K55M	0810934930	634103012	Inventing Christmas: How Our Holiday Came to Be	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A Real Christmas Gem	This book is such an amazing find! It tells the whole celebration of the Christmas holiday, from it's pre-Christian pagan celebrations, through the 20th century. Particularly interesting is how it became a Christian Holiday a few hundred years after the birth of Christ. But the book also covers how Santa Claus came to be, the history of the Christmas Tree, carols, and a pretty extensive article on Charles Dickens 'A Christmas Carol.'<br />The author, Jock Elliott, is probably the foremost collector of Christmas memorabelia, and through many color photos has shared some of his extensive collection with us. The man even has his letters to Santa from the 1920's! But, most impressive of all (to me!) is his 'A Christmas Carol' collection. He has a copy of the original first edition from 1843, as well as the original newspaper advertisement for the book from that same year! And, yes, Mr. Elliott shares this with us, too.<br />I've compared his history of the holiday with other books I own and I feel I can safely say that Mr. Elliott has done his research. His writing style is very entertaining and easy to follow, so the younger set can enjoy this book, too.<br />All in all, this is one of the most entertaining books I've read on the Christmas holiday. I guess if I had one complaint it would be for Mr. Elliott to maybe add a bit about the Reason for the Season - Jesus Christ.<br />Very highly recommended.	2003-10-07
US	39618214	R38T9GEG0JGQ8E	0916489582	232135957	Italian Genealogical Records: How to Use Italian Civil, Ecclesiastical & Other Records in Family History Research (Italian Edition)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	This Is It!	For those of you in search of your Italian heritage need look no further. Everything you need is right here in this relatively cheap book written by, get this, a non-Italian! Whether you just want to get your grandparents birth records from the 1890's or go all the way back to the 1700's to get your 5th great grandparents marriage record, this book will tell you how, in easy step by step instructions. Can't read or write in Italian? Mr. Cole's book does that for you, too. Don't know your Italian history? Guess what? Mr. Cole does, and he shares it with you in his book.<br />There are many illustrations of actual Italian records from the 1800's to going back almost 1000 years, and he explains what each is and what the records say. This author covers the history of surnames as well.<br />With the information in this book, it would be virtually impossible for someone who's ancestors were Italian not to discover their heritage.<br />I strongly recommend this book.	2003-01-30
US	39618214	R20H3U5AQEJ2GE	1571456899	950893741	Detroit Then and Now (Then & Now)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	What Once Was to What Now Is	Now here is a book that is worth every penny. I understand and fully agree with the previous reviewer that Detroit seems to love to tear down the beautiful architecture of its past, only to be replaced with the drab, bland structures of today. The past, present, and future can compliment each other tremendously, as in so many other cities (especially in Europe), but Detroit seems to want to forget about its past. Many people do not realize that Detroit was once a vibrant, alive city from the later part of the 19th century through the mid-1950's. A city where people chose to live, not move from. This beautiful book will show in pictures why Detroit was the place to be. Unfortunately, it also shows why it's not the place to be anymore. What the photographers have successfully done was to print original photographs of many different parts of Detroit from around the 1880's through the 1950's, and then print how the exact spot looks today. The results are startling. To see what once was to what is, is very sad.<br />There is hope, however, with the restoration of the Fox Theater, the Gem Theater, and now, quite possibly, the Book-Cadillac Hotel. Will Tiger Stadium also be on the restoration list? One can only hope. What was done to the Michigan Theater was a sin, and the tearing down of the Monroe Block was a crime!<br />Detroit, please do not tear down what's left of your past.	2002-11-28
US	39618214	R2RI527JYTPZRH	0670888796	419595190	A Christmas Carol (Whole Story)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	As It Was Written	This is it! These are the letters, words, sentences, paragraphs that made Christmas the celebration that it is today - the family parties, the feasts, the excitement, giving to the poor. Virtually every way we celebrate this magnificent Holiday (except the mall part!) comes from this book written by Charles Dickens.<br /> First off, this is the unabridged version. Nothing added - nothing taken away. That's as it should be. (Unfortunately, as great as they may be, the movie versions truly do not do the book justice - although I must say the George C. Scott and Alistair Sim versions do come fairly close).<br /> One thing that surprises me about this book is how few people I know that have have actually read it, but they've seen one version or another of the movie countless times! They don't seem to realize that when books are put to film, so much is taken out for length or for other reasons. A Christmas Carol is no different. In fact, if you watch all of the different movie versions available, you STILL would not get the complete book, even though each movie adds one thing or another from the original story that the others may not.<br /> There are countless copies of this story available in various book form, but this particular version is probably one of the best that I have seen. The illustrations attempt in some part to keep in the same spirit as in Dickens' original. But the best, most interesting part of this version (besides the story itself) is all of the little facts, explanations, and trivia put into the margins throughout this book. They give the modern 21st century reader more of an understanding of what 19th century English life was like. A couple of examples: when Dickens writes of the Cratchit family taking their goose to the bakers to be cooked, I wondered why would any one take their food OUT to be cooked and then picked up later. This book explains that few poor people in this time period had ovens large enough to roast a good family sized bird. They were big enough to cook a small bit of meat and that was about it. In order to have one of those rare Holiday meals, they had to take it to the large baker's oven at an appointed time for cooking.<br />Another fact I did not know was that in the story, Scrooge's sister, Fan, was based on Dickens' actual sister in law, Mary Hogarth.<br />There are also a multitude of paintings, drawings, and sketches from Dickens' time showing his time. Now you can see, as accurately as one can considering there were no cameras, life of the rich, middle class, and poor as it actually was. There's a picture of Queen Victoria and her family celebrating Christmas. There is also a beautiful painting of a poor labourer's family Christmas celebration. There are sketches from the first edition of 'A Christmas Carol.'<br />If you plan on owning a copy of this most wonderful of all Christmas novels, this is the version to get.ough to cook a small bit of meat and that was about it. In order to have one of those rare Holiday meals, they had to take it to the large baker's oven at an appointed time for cooking.  Another fact I did not know was that in the story, Scrooge's sister, Fan, was based on Dickens' actual sister in law, Mary Hogarth.  There are also a multitude of paintings, drawings, and sketches from Dickens' time showing his time. Now you can see, as accurately as one can considering there were no cameras, life of the rich, middle class, and poor as it actually was. There's a picture of Queen Victoria and her family celebrating Christmas. There is also a beautiful painting of a poor labourer's family Christmas celebration. There are sketches from the first edition of 'A Christmas Carol.'   If you plan on owning a copy of this most wonderful of all Christmas novels, this is the version to get.	2002-11-12
US	39618214	R3ERF0HA2WN9A3	0806515791	546092188	The "Christmas Carol" Trivia Book: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Every Version of the Dickens Classic	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Highly Enjoyable	What a fun book to read. I love 'A Christmas Carol,' and this book puts everything 'Carol' right at your fingertips. For the most part, I agree with much of what the author says, but I feel that 'An American Christmas Carol' and 'Scrooged' deserve higher ratings. I also prefer the George C. Scott version above all others.<br />This book is broken down so the reader will not only be able to read about the many different film versions of a 'Carol' that have been released, but the cartoon, television, and even the original book version is reviewed as well. An example of what I learned is that I had no idea that there was a version starring Sir Seymour Hicks filmed back in 1935 until I read about it in this book. I then searched out and found a (rather poor, unfortunately) copy of THAT version. There is also a small biography of Mr. Dickens, so the reader will understand where many of his ideas for his novels came from.<br />The writing style is quick, informative (LOTS of trivia and pictures throughout!), and upbeat.<br />I don't know if this has been updated to include the Patrick Stewart version or not, as I purchased this book back in '97. I will definitely pick up a revised copy should one become available.<br />A great bathroom book!	2002-10-29
US	39618214	RU05LE0QF320D	0743442709	500354584	Frontier House	Books	5	55	55	N	N	As Good If Not Better Than The Series	This book is proof positive why movies will NEVER replace the written word.<br />There were six of us who, together, watched this PBS television series about seeing if three modern day families could survive being Montana  homesteaders in 1883. They had to dress from the period, use tools and medicine from the period, and eat the types of foods available for the time of year (summer) that they were living in (not like today where we can eat any vegetable any time of year). We were all hooked and couldn't wait 'til the next episodes. After each of the three nights it was shown, we would have these great discussions about what we saw, and offered our own opinions about each family and how well (or how poorly) they were doing compared to the others. But we had questions - a lot of them. Questions like, did they really drink the water from the stream? After all, you don't know what bacteria and year 2001 pollutants could be in it. Also, how different were their lives in comparison to the actual homesteaders of the 19th century? These questions and many others we would answer with our own opinions instead of the facts.<br /> Well, now we have the facts. This book has more than answered all of our questions. We also got to know each family a little better and realized that the TV series didn't do each family justice (except the Brooks family). There was so much more that happened than was shown that they could have (SHOULD have) made the series at least two hours longer! There is MUCH more detail, and many more explanations in this book that it acually brought the whole experiment to life more vividly than watching the show! It even gives a rather enjoyably well written history of the REAL homesteaders and tells what their lives were actually like.<br />If you enjoyed the series (and didn't get enough of it), this book is just what you need. It is written in a lively 'I can't put this down!' manner. Highly recommended!	2002-05-18
US	39618214	RIQRKOUHLMXNB	0916489183	922304545	Plymouth Colony: Its History & People, 1620-1691	Books	5	132	135	N	N	Just What I Was Looking For	There are hundreds of books out there about the Pilgrims and the first Thanksgiving and all that goes with the subject. But the majority of these books are written either in a stodgy, encyclopedic (read: Boring!) format, or they are written for children. Well, now I have one that is actually written for adults, as well as in an easy to read manner.  Written mainly from a genealogical stance, the author, Eugene Aubrey Stratton, did his &quot;putting flesh on the bones&quot; research; that is, he sought out how the pilgrims lived their daily lives in all aspects of their time and place. Instead of the cartoonish figures we all see come November, Mr. Stratton actually gives an authentic look to these early Americans. He makes the reader feel that they now know the pilgrims, not only through their historical prominence in our early history, but by name, and we feel their hardships, especially of their first winter here. After the first time reading this book, I re-read it, only this time I read the 'Biographical Sketches' section, located toward the back of the book, first, THEN I went to the beginning. My advice to the first time reader is to do the same. You will then know who you are reading about as names are mentioned.<br />This book is, simply put, the best of its kind. Maybe more genealogists should write our history books! At least they bring history to life!	2002-04-12
US	39618214	RYWCD0OUJHI7O	1557285993	889839410	As Various as Their Land: The Everyday Lives of Eighteenth-Century Americans	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great for Genealogists	We all know about the Revolutionary War, and George Washington, Ben Franklin, Paul Revere, et al. But what about Enoch Shrigley or Jonathan Heacock? Martha Pearson, maybe? Susannah Morgan? Who, you may ask, are these people? Enoch, Jonathan, Martha, and Susannah were no one that you have read about in your American History lessons in school. They were my ancestors, my multiple Great Grandparents who lived in Pennsylvania in the 1700's, and, except for a few small facts and stories here and there, I know very little about their lives, especially the women. But, they all lived during the time period covered in \\"As Various As Their Land,\\" a book that I highly recommend. And learning about the lives of my above listed ancestors is why I truly love these 'you are there' everyday life books. I have copies of the many different books of this ilk that are available and, being heavily into my family history (and genealogy in general), I use them extensively to put 'flesh on the bones' of my long dead ancestors. They help one to understand how the War For Independence or how the politicians of the day affected the mass of 'unknowns.' Stephanie Grauman Wolf has done a very good job in her representation of what the 'plain ordinary folk' of the 18th century were like. Because of her book, I now can tell you pretty much the way a typical person of 1770 may have dressed, cooked, what they may have eaten, did for fun, how they were schooled, etc. In another Every Day Life type book that I reviewed (Daily Life In Victorian England), I began my review with something like \\"If history books in school were written like this, perhaps more school children would be interested in the subject of history.\\" That statement holds true for this book by Ms. Wolf as well.<br />Why four stars instead of five? Just a couple of small things that I felt should have been included. For example, a larger piece on the language of the period - how they spoke to each other. Did they speak properly (as you see on tv or in the movies), or were they more like our present day persons, using slang in their speech? More on cleanliness, as well as music of the times would have been a nice addition. And the over done subject of racism kept creeping in. Otherwise, for the most part, I have found this book to be invaluable to the genealogist or the student of history, or even the remotely curious. Four stars is still very good!on tv or in the movies), or were they more like our present day persons, using slang in their speech? More on cleanliness, as well as music of the times would have been a nice addition. And the over done subject of racism kept creeping in. Otherwise, for the most part, I have found this book to be invaluable to the genealogist or the student of history, or even the remotely curious. Four stars is still very good!	2002-04-07
US	39618214	R1Y5XQ2OXA0B14	0967757002	683769470	Echoes of Detroit: A 300 Year History	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An Easy Read	One of the better books telling the 300 year history of the City of Detroit. Chockfull of pictures and drawings helps to give the reader a better understanding of the way things were. What I like best about this book is that it doesn't become so overly detailed that it loses the reader's interest, and yet still gives a fairly complete understanding of this under-rated city's history. One of my favorite points of interest is the fact that before Detroit became the 'Motor City,' it was the stove capitol of the world, and that if it weren't for the stove factories, it just might never have become the car capitol. My grandpa, Francesco Giorlando, happened to work for the Detroit Stove Works, which was the largest stove manufacturing plant in the world at the time, so I have some personel interest and history of my own here.<br />I guess if I had one complaint about this book, as I do with all of the other Detroit history books, it's that the first hundred and fifty years of Detroit's history is pretty much glazed over and the real concentration is on the last hundred and fifty. I would love to get more details of life in Detroit during the colonial period of this nation's history (even though Detroit was not technically part of the colonies, it WAS a thriving village during this time).<br />All in all, a book worth your hard earned money.	2001-12-30
US	39618214	R3PEM0O2M7XNO9	0312245238	14328531	A Midnight Carol: A Novel of How Charles Dickens Saved Christmas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprisingly Enjoyable	I really didn't know if I would enjoy this book or not, seeing that it was part fact - part fiction. But enjoy it I did! Written in a Dickensesque style, the book reads almost like an original 19th century novel, the manuscript lost in a musty basement for over a century, only to be found and printed for the first time. The other reviews of this book have done a wonderful job in their storyline description, so I won't bother going there. I will say that this is an excellent book to read in October or November - kind of a precursor of the holidays to come. Enjoy!	2001-10-10
US	39618214	R17G49X1774YP3	0898200830	987884275	Pop Memories 1890-1954: The History of American Popular Music	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Best of All Whitburn's Books	The information contained in this book is beyond compare. The complete pre-rock and roll era, from 1890 through 1954, is here at your fingertips. The Crew Cuts? Here they are. How about Helen Kane (the 'boop boop a doop' girl)? She's here, too. Nora Bayes? Yup! There she is. And thousands more. This book convinced me to search out the music contained herein-not an easy task-but I obtained much of it, and now I'm hooked. Thank God for the web to help me locate this historical music, and thank God for Joel Whitburn for all of the extremely hard work that he had to put into the making of this book. Artists names, release dates, chart numbers (some fabricated but the good intention is there), label and numbers, and artist info. One word of warning in the purchase of this book-you may find yourself searching out and listening to the hits of 1910, 1927, 1941........	2001-03-25
US	39618214	R1CGXI1F7771PV	0140322566	344891273	The Cabin Faced West	Books	5	41	42	N	N	An Excellent Historical Book for Kids	I am very surprised at the number of poor reviews this book has gotten. As a kid, I thought it was great BECAUSE of the low action format, and that the concentration was on what life was like for the REAL heroes of our nation during a most underrated time in our nation's history. Ann HATED the idea of moving 'out west' (western Pennsylvania) at the beginning of the story, but, by the end, she learned just what an impact every day people such as she and her family had in helping our nation's growth. Such interesting historical facts like not letting the cooking fire go out (no lighters or matches in the 18th century!), and showing, pretty accurately, life without electricty, TV, videos, radios, cars, or even paper to write on. No, there's not much action, but there IS much more, especially for the youngster who has an interest in the past. When I was ten, this book was a favorite - even though the main character was a girl - taboo at that age - and I recently reread it and I found I STILL could not put it down. Not every life was filled with fighting and killing. And 'The Cabin Faced West' is one of those that show life as it really was in the late 18th century America. If I could, I'd give it 10 stars!	2001-03-25
US	39618214	R948XVG9SHDN2	0313294674	989011242	Daily Life in Victorian England	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Exceptional!	You know, if history classes in schools used books like the 'Daily Life' series as their text, I'm sure alot more kids would not find history so boring. In fact, many kids would probably actually enjoy it! Written in a highly readable 'you are there' style, they truly bring the past to life. Daily Life In Victorian England by Sally Mitchell is no exception. I've used it extensively to add 'flesh to the bones' of my long dead English ancestors in my genealogy research. My ancestors were far from rich and this book explains, in descriptive detail, how they lived and survived; from a description of what their small cottage may have looked like, to the food they ate, to the clothes they wore, and even what type of lighting they had (hint:  they probably did not use candles early on!). Birth, baptism, marriage, death and dying, funerals, celebrations- it's all here. And, as I mentioned above, it doesn't just concentrate on the well to do, but ALL the classes of people. This is really a wonderfully written book that is highly recommended. Any interest at all in this era, then it is a MUST HAVE.	2001-01-27
US	39618214	R3P18DDOE7P9FI	0894808257	639849966	Joy to the World: A Victorian Christmas	Books	4	50	56	N	N	Almost Perfect but....	Pretty much the complete history of Christmas in a nutshell is lavishly illustrated here in this beautifully colorful (and I DO mean colorful) book. Of course, the concentration here is on the 19th century...pretty much the LATE 19th century. If you want to know how our great and great great grandparents may have celebrated this glorious holiday, and how they would have SEEN this holiday,it doesn't get any better.<br />Now for my complaint - and it is a big one-although it is only one line in the book. I will quote it here from page 21: \\"The creche as a symbol of the Christ Child's birth derived from the fictitious but touching story of an adolescent Mary, great with child, and her gentle middle aged husband Joseph.\\"<br />Fictitious? Really? I'm sorry but that is the basis, the beginning of the whole Christian faith. Without that 'fictitious' birth...well....this is not the place for preaching. Christians know, though. It did put a damper on the rest of the book for me, but I will stand by my review that for the pictures and the history, it truly is excellent. The authors just have to leave out their opinions when writing on a subject that, like it or not, is very religious in nature-and, believe me, a Christmas in Victorian times was truly religious. That's why it got a 4 instead of a 5.	2000-12-05
US	39618214	R3GJUNXNFBOLFO	0898798124	146930883	The Writer's Guide to Everyday Life in Regency and Victorian England from 1811-1901	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Can't Be Beat For The Price!	I realize that there are books that are better and more complete about life in Victorian England (and Regency), but, for the novice or one who just wants the basics, this book can't be beat.  I felt it was well written and very understandable. I guess what I really like best about it is that it gives me a whole lot of information about the lower middle class and the poorer classes, especially country folk, which helps tremendously in piecing together the way my ancestors may have lived.  I use this book (and the others in this series) quite often in my research.	2000-11-24
