US	39614869	R1OPLZOB67DIDQ	0786015608	556021740	Possession	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Seven Years to Sequel	The history of this book must be more interesting than the book, itself.  Possession is actually the second half of a single novel, that begins with Obsession.  Obsession, as the copyright page shows, was first published in 1996.  Possession, according to its copyright page, was first published this month (December 2003).  Since Obsession ends, not even with a cliffhanger, but simply an abrupt break in the middle of its story's action and plot  -  and nowhere indicates that a sequel is coming  -  reading it can only have been a baffling experience, at best, to those who first discovered it on its original publication.  It appears  -  and, frankly, reads  -  as if the author waited seven years, before coming up with the conclusion to her own two-part story.<br />The first book, Obsession, actually reads better, and has good structure, plot timing, and suspense.  Morgan immediately throws too many similar characters at the reader to cleanly delineate, which is a bit of a problem, but surmountable.  The characters are likeable and credible, with even the principal villain sympathetically drawn.<br />Unfortunately, out of the blue, the book simply ends after about 335 pp, with nothing resolved and the action in full swing, and not even a publisher's blurb like &quot;Watch for Part II Next Month!&quot;  There's an ad on the inside front cover for Morgan's Possession, but it doesn't indicate it as a sequel to the book the reader holds in his hands.<br />Possession, after Obsession's pretty rip-roaring and engaging start, is lame, tame, and terribly contrived.  Too many plot improbabilities are thrown at the reader, and in too short a time, to be believed.  The characters begin acting as inconsistently as those in soap-operas.  The ending is rushed into a mere handful of pages, after literally an entire novel's worth of severely padded chapters so redundant that they can be flipped through in minutes without missing anything of substance.<br />Ultimately, buying into either book is simply a waste of time, a marketing ploy intended to sell more copies, at the expense of any potential product of worth.  This &quot;serial novel&quot; game, an insulting trick from its inception  -  and continuation, involving many talented authors who should be ashamed of themselves, Stephen King, John Saul, Robert R. McCammon and Tamara Thorne among them  -  is trash at its worst, even when the finished product is worth the time and effort, which Obsession and Possession aren't.<br />I do have to say that Morgan does have a talent for establishing a plot and composing sympathetic characters, which I hope manifests itself in future in novels of greater note than this one  -  er, two  -  I mean...oh, forget it.	2003-12-09
US	39614869	R3GOX5DXNDZUV3	0821772287	976182173	The Awakening	Books	3	1	3	N	N	From the Dean Koontz &quot;How To Wreck A Book&quot; Book	The entire first eighty-percent of this book is terrific.  It's a very adult, old-fashioned, straightforward supernatural horror thriller.<br />Then comes the last twenty-percent, where the book abruptly derails itself to jump tracks to the Saturday morning cartoon melodrama superheroes-vs.-supervillains genre  -  a trick hitherto performed only by Dean Koontz  -  stunning the reader into acute heart failure with the famous last word, &quot;HUNH - ?!?&quot;<br />This is the only book I've read by Drake  -  alter-ego of romance novelist Heather Graham  -  and will probably be the last.  That's rather a pity, because Drake certainly appears able to tell a story and to craft interesting and likeable characters.  The writing style is engaging enough, and she knows how to evoke a strong sense of growing menace.  Hell, even as absurdly as The Awakening ends, you still can't help but kind of like it.<br />But it is a stunning disappointment, given what the novel could (and should) have been, and would have been if Drake could simply shake the misguided desire to force series characters into stories in which they don't belong.  There are also a number of odd and easily correctable errors that should have been caught in editing but weren't, such as continual references to the 1692 Salem witch trials happening four hundred years ago (instead of three), repetitious and unique turns of phrase coming out of every character's mouth as if they were all one person, and the peculiar recurring apologetics for Wicca beliefs (as if the author feared alienating a small section of her readership by implying any connection they might have to witchcraft).<br />All of which is a fancy way of saying the book is not entirely without merit, but the reader should be aware of what he/she is getting into before buying it.  If your tastes run to fantasy superhero pieces, you'll probably love it.  If, on the other hand, you're like me, and the packaging of this handsomely marketed novel completelymisleads you, you'll probably tear your hair out in frustration, bang your head on the table, and cast a diabolical curse upon the publisher and/or author for leading you on with the promise of a fancy meal and delivering only fast food, or at the very least groan and make sour faces.	2003-10-27
US	39614869	R3UOJ1YTW38HRN	0743427718	271174018	Mortal Fear (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Simon Says, "Apocalypse Now..."	Buffy's running ragged around Sunnydale.  She keeps getting anonymous tips, concerning demon attacks round and about town  -  in advance.  Her mysterious source stays hidden in the shadows, and cloaked by magic.  He calls himself \\"Simon,\\" and Buffy does whatever he says  -  though she doesn't much like it.  After all, how does this \\"Simon\\" character know so much?  Is he sending the demons out to lunch on the Sunnydale citizenry himself, just to put Buffy through her paces for some agenda of his own?  Why do the slain demons all dissolve into so much goo, and form themselves into more and more pieces of a lost legendary sword?  And just what is \\"Simon's\\" admitted interest in this particular weapon?<br />Complicating matters is the fact that Sunnydale itself seems to be growing more collectively insane, by the day.  Kids, adults and senior citizens all seem to be developing a remarkable lack of inhibition, leading them to commit outrageous acts on nothing more than the impulse of the moment.  Xander and Willow are being subtly targeted and preyed-upon by an unknown force, bent on unleashing their innermost desires and unlocking a strange power within them.  And Dawn is literally turning renegade  -  and superhuman  -  in the throes of teenage hormones run wild.<br />Even the vampires are willing to call temporary truce with the the Slayer, until Sunnydale's burgeoning crisis can be contained.  They have to  -  something is poisoning their food supply, at the same time as it drives the mortals of Sunnydale crazy.  With Xander, Willow and Dawn ganging-up on her, and no one but the mentally unbalanced vampire, Spike, and Xander's ex-fiancee, Anya, to help, can Buffy decipher the riddle of \\"Simon's\\" identity, and stop his  -  or someone else's  -  diabolical plan, before Sunnydale erupts in a kind of apocalypse, the like of which even Buffy Summers never could have dreamed?<br />The Ciencin's write a first-rate Buffy tale, long, involved, well-developed and absorbing.  Iactually didn't think the plot to this one sounded all that promising, and was delighted to discover my preliminary judgment was greatly mistaken.  Mortal Fear is one of the best of the Buffy books.  It's well worth the read, and a real keeper.	2003-09-15
US	39614869	R270UG8KP7GRCG	0786015799	26280904	The Harvest	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Hillbilly Moonshine	Nicholson's second novel is a slight improvement over his first (The Red Church), but still lacking in sufficient originality or diversity to sustain its greater length.  At least the sources of his derivation are good.  Think Lovecraft's &quot;The Colour Out Of Space,&quot; combined with Stephen King's &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot; and that grand old (and never aired anymore) 1963 Japanese monster-flick &quot;Attack of the Mushroom People,&quot; and you've pretty well got this one.<br />Tamara and her husband have relocated from the city to hillbilly heaven, to further his radio deejay career and give her much-needed relief from &quot;the gloomies&quot;  -  a neurotic feeling that comes over Tamara like a psychic blanket of suffocation, seeming like an unwelcome external presence.  The hillbilly haven in which they now live is the target of an unscrupulous real estate developer, and the home of his wealthy, retired entrepreneur rival.  A crooked fire-and-brimstone preacher's congregation nestles in the hills, nearby a few old holdout amateur bootleg still operators and average, bored housewives looking for a few extra bucks turning tricks for their sleazy former lovers.<br />Enter the Colour Out of Space  -  er, I mean, the Tommyknockers  -  uh, the Mushroom People  -  oh, hell, it's a crashing green-glowing meteorite, harboring a mutagenic fungal extraterrestrial invader...and I'm betraying no surprises, here, since Nicholson literally tells you what I just did on his very first page, rather badly damaging most of the suspense for the rest of the novel, which consists really of nothing more than the subsuming of all the various local yokels by the spreading &quot;green gloomies.&quot;<br />Well, okay, there's a little bit more than that  -  but honestly, not much.  Still, Nicholson has to be given credit for breathing about four-hundred pages' worth of print out of that thin an amount of material, and he does it pretty well.  He creates credible characters, and writes with wonderful local color.  The novel is never boring, even if its story is nothing you haven't read before.  The author has a good sense of humor, and makes his extraterrestrial green goo curiously kind of interesting.<br />I'm still waiting for Nicholson to take off, but he's sufficiently entertaining and talented to make him worth the continued reading in the meantime.	2003-09-15
US	39614869	R1XHAMR1075XYA	0312983840	235784872	I: The Creation of a Serial Killer	Books	4	12	12	N	N	&quot;Ain't I Great?&quot;	The late Jack Olsen was a master of the true-crime genre.  He chose wonderfully bizarre cases and criminals to document, and &quot;I&quot; is no exception, though it isn't his best.<br />Most of the book is told first-person from &quot;Happy Face Killer&quot; Keith Hunter Jesperson's own point of view.  This is both a good thing and a bad thing.  It's good, in that it gives the reader direct access to the psychopath's own vision of himself and the world around him.  It's bad, in that it doesn't do a great deal to sort out the truth behind the psychopath's lies.  Olsen counts on his readers to do that for themselves, which to a certain extent isn't a bad idea, but a bit more commentary from Olsen would have been welcome.<br />&quot;I&quot; is an especially apt title, since not only is Jesperson unbelievably narcissistic  -  letters of his writing, the reader will quickly notice (though Olsen never once calls attention to the fact), refer to their writer in the personal pronoun an incredible number of times  -  but so, to a large degree, is his father.  The biggest unanswered question in Keith Jesperson's story is the question of his upbringing.  Jesperson's father denied most of Keith's claims of childhood abuse, but he is so plainly hung-up on other people's perceptions of him that the reader constantly has to question how many of killer Keith's claims are true, or simply made-up like the majority of his other stories.  Again, a bit more input from Olsen would have been welcome.  The constant contrast between father and son often becomes comical, despite itself, in the desire on the part of both to be viewed in their best possible light.  No doubt Olsen recognized this, and wanted it to speak for itself  -  which it does.<br />Jesperson's case is reminiscent of Arthur Shawcross's, a serial killer of women and children who was an X-double-Y chromosomal mutation  -  and, interestingly, a brief correspondent of Jesperson's in prison.  Olsen barely ponders the questionof nature-vs.-nurture in &quot;I,&quot; though he does bring up the contrasting stories about Keith Jesperson's upbringing and the fact that he had an uncle who committed gory suicide in an institution.  Olsen isn't interested in debates  -  he just wants to present the facts, and let the reader ask (or answer) his own questions.<br />It's possible Olsen intended to flesh-out this book a bit more before his death, and simply didn't have time.  The result is still well worth reading for true-crime afficionadoes, or those with an interest in criminal psychology.	2003-08-12
US	39614869	RYAMF8IVDIL19	0786015411	172068630	Samantha (The Sorority Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Shades of King Arthur	If you've read Thorne's earlier novel Moonfall, you're halfway through The Sorority trilogy from the start.  The Sorority is a great deal like it, only with more humor  -  and everything Thorne writes is rife with a great deal of humor.<br />This isn't Thorne's best, but it's still quite entertaining.  The story  -  and there isn't much to it, really  -  is not all that original, but her characters and writing invest it with more life than you'd get from anyone else's attempt at the same tale.  It's almost what you'd get if you tried to write an adult Arthurian fantasy novel for junior high school students.<br />Sorority head Malory Thomas  -  her name only one of many sardonic puns  -  is the all but immortal arch-nemesis of none other than the original Merlin.  Her \\"Fata Morgana\\" sorority enjoys more than the usual blessings in return for supernatural service to the Green Man, the \\"Forest Knight.\\"  The Morganas number thirteen (hmmm...wonder why?), and engage in nocturnal orgies and ceremonies in the woods.  Could they have something to do with the abnormally high disappearance rate among the university students?  (Don't think too hard, now.)<br />No, there's nothing here you haven't read many, many times before  -  except for Thorne's own personal charm in telling the story.  Who else could turn an Arthurian fantasy into a witchcraft comedy by way of a 1970s T.V. movie?  The cast of characters include uncontrollably gaseous psychopathic ditzy cheerleaders on the rag, the noble ghost of a martyred local girl, a much-in-demand college professor who goes by the nicknames \\"Professor Tongue\\" and the \\"Cunning Linguist,\\" and questionably loyal witch's familiar squirrel.  If none of that sounds fun to you, well...you're in the wrong place, and what's wrong with you anyway?<br />This trilogy is as good a place as any to become acquainted with the weird and wonderful world of Tamara Thorne.  All of her books are good.  They never fail to entertain, at the very least.<br />Be forewarned, these are not stand-alone books.  You'll want to begin with Eve, move on to Merilynn, and finish-up with Samantha.  This novel would have been much better if all three parts were collected between the same covers, and edited-down.  But then, serial novels are unbelievably lucrative, and make for good advertising.  If this serial novel brings more attention to the talented Ms. Thorne, then it's worth the sacrifice.	2003-08-05
US	39614869	R1H1UGGJ4XZZ0F	0451410750	970596440	The Wheat Field (Mysteries & Horror)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pseudonymous Straub	If Peter Straub didn't write this novel pseudonymously, then Steve Thayer has studied the man's writings and imitated them perfectly.  All the standard Straub elements are here:  the Wisconsin setting, the obsessed and flawed hero besieged by numerous secret enemies, political intrigue, and a mysteriously vanished former love-interest femme fatale.<br />Whenever you think you've got this one figured out, the author throws an ingenious twist your way.  It begins with a double-barrelled shotgun blast, ends in thunder, lightning and flame, and traces a labyrinthine trail in-between of corrupt politicians and police, menacing secret societies, setups and double-crosses, frame-ups, cover-ups, mysterious late-night phone calls, contacts of dubious loyalties, hidden agendas, jealousy, greed, and every film noir element imaginable.<br />The most brilliant aspect of this lightning-fast, multiply-layered page-turner is its own narrator, Deputy Detective Pliny Pennington, a man who  -  all the way to the closing chapter  -  the reader can't ever quite be sure of.  Pliny has a checkered past, which includes obsessive voyeurism, stalking, and even one plain, old-fashioned, cold-blooded murder.  Is he a good guy, or a bad guy?  Or just an average guy, a basic shade of gray with stronger than usual black and white highlights?  The novel is brilliantly plotted and constructed, and holds the reader's interest in a constantly tightening vise that never lets go.<br />If you've never read Peter Straub, you'll get a great sample of his work in Thayer's The Wheat Field.  If you have read Straub, you'll love this book more than you could imagine.  If you don't know and never care to find out who Peter Straub is, you'll still find this an incredibly thrilling and surprisingly delightful read.<br />Don't miss it.  It's great.	2003-08-05
US	39614869	R1ZOT80MOR0PSB	074342767X	85492682	Chaos Bleeds (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Kung Fu Cameo Curtain Call	As a book, it makes a great video game.  Er, that is, as a video game, it makes a boring book.  I mean...<br />I went into this one with high expectations, which may be one of the reasons it didn't thrill me that much.  James Moore is a pretty good author  -  his Under the Overtree is well worth reading  -  and he does well with the characters.  But he's hampered with writing a video game, which is all but impossible even for characters as well-developed as these.<br />The real problem is this:  the plot consists of nothing more than former plot retreads, the cast of characters merely returning cameos from the past.  It's as if the entire point of the story is to squeeze in as many guest appearances from the entire history of the series as possible.  Glory is nowhere in evidence, nor (strangely) is Dawn or Evil Angel, and the exclusion of Mayor Wilkins  -  especially with Faith thrown into the mix  -  is simply bizarre.  Oz barely appears.  But aside from the aforementioned characters, just about everyone from the Buffyverse manages to pop into what skeletal plot there is just long enough to say \\"hello\\" and \\"goodbye\\" again.<br />The plot  -  such as it is  -  consists of Buffy and Co. running around alternate hell-dimensions, combating The First Evil's selected army of past baddies.  Eternal troublemaker Ethan Rayne made a bet with the First in order to escape his imprisonment by the Initiative, in which he staked the First's power against his own enslavement by the First:  winner take all.  Buffy and her friends constitute Ethan's chosen army, and a number of former Buffy villains comprise the opposition.<br />Everything you want in a Buffy story is there  -  action, wisecracks, a bit of clever intrigue  -  but there's simply too much of it.  Action is on literally almost every page, with nothing more than a minimal passing nod to plot, and that passing nod doesn't happen until the novel is more than half over.  You can skim over entire chapters and miss nothing atall by way of story.<br />Still, it is Buffy, and sometimes fun.  Xander escapes an evil Anya by means of a very funny bunny trick; Faith gets another go-round with her vampire nemesis, Kakistos; Sid the ventriloquist-puppet demon-hunter is in on the act, and Ethan Rayne can't help but be entertaining even if he is utterly irredeemable.<br />Not bad for hardcore Buffy fans, but newbies will be lost from page one.  And even hardcore Buffy fans could do better.  If all you want is some Buffy kick-it action, though, you won't be disappointed.	2003-08-05
US	39614869	R1VHAOWMXES55H	0689860145	135083040	Seven Crows  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	!Viva La Vampire Slayer!	Husband and wife government monster-hunters Riley and Samantha Finn stumble on a curious case just this side of the Mexican border, in Arizona:  seems a few illegal immigrants have become someone's dinner.  Local law enforcement is all too ready to ascribe the suspicious deaths to natural predators, though the demon-chasing duo are rather inclined to believe the mutilations are the result of vampires.  Their suspicions go into overdrive when the area sheriff pulls some strings to get them taken off the case, provoking them to call in a little extra help  -  namely Buffy Summers and her erstwhile vampire boyfriend, Angel.  Given that Riley and Buffy were once an item themselves, the quartet's fun in the Mexican sun promises to be quite the exciting weekend.<br />Vornholt writes these characters wonderfully, and has chosen four unlikely candidates for his team story that end up working remarkably well together.  The writing is witty and brisk, the action steady and satisfying.  The only complaints I have about this book are that the ending is far too abrupt, and the plot insufficiently grand or demonic to justify the wonderful team-up of unlikely characters.<br />Still, it's a great read, well worth the time and money.  The mere idea of a vampire investigator running around the Arizonan and Mexican deserts is worth the price of admission, alone  -  what kind of sunblock do you suppose he uses, anyway?  -  and the inevitable fun of this dual love-triangled quartet (Sam develops something of a crush on Buffy's hunky ex, Angel, before it's all over) thrown together on any adventure, let alone this one, is too much to pass up.<br />Enjoy.  And don't forget your beach blanket and sombrero, muchachos.  (!Viva!)	2003-07-03
US	39614869	R1XTLUAGJEVZC7	0689866259	601869080	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Chosen	Books	3	2	3	N	N	"I Have the Power!  Uh, Sort Of..."	What you'll think of this book depends entirely on what you thought of Season 7, because that's all Chosen is.  Curiously, it does read better than it performed  -  though, as with Holder's Book of Fours, it has numerous typos throughout.  (For the curious, that happens because the publisher knows full well the book is going to sell  -  no matter whether it's any good or not  -  before it even hits the stands, and so saves the cost of an editor by simply telling the author to give it a quick once-over before it hits the presses.)<br />Given that Season 7 was just a little better than mediocre, I bought this one solely to see if it would answer any of the niggling expositional or continuity questions I thought I must have missed while watching the show.  It didn't.  What you saw on T.V. is what you get here, and that's pretty much it.<br />Still, like I said, Chosen actually does read pretty well.  And Buffy's definitely been worse  -  of course, that also means Buffy's definitely been better.  Like the even lesser quality Season 6, it's a little disappointing to see such a great heroine become...well, average, at best.	2003-06-12
US	39614869	R5N1YXM5NQE57	0743400399	544453847	Blood and Fog (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Jack Is Back, In Basic Black	Whitechapel was a bloody mess, back in 1888.  Jack the Ripper cut-up a number of prostitutes, and the world is still talking about it.  Jack was never found, his identity undiscovered.<br />Of course, in Sunnydale, the chances of finding a witness from that time are pretty good  -  Spike, for instance, who with mad Drusilla, evil Angelus and dreadful Darla, constituted a quartet of the world's most traveled and maliciously accomplished vampires.<br />The Fearsome Four met the madman, only to discover that he may have been mad, but he was no man.  Jack was a twisted, near-immortal half-breed of the Fomoire  -  the demonic rival race to Ireland's fairy-folk, the Tuatha de Danaan  -  who in 1888 nearly succeeded in opening a dimensional gateway to the two ancient, warring races, in order that they might conclude their unfinished business...and along the way, rid the world of all the pesky interlopers it had since picked up, such as humans and vampires.<br />This knowledge has become of some importance, since Sunnydale has suddenly become fogbound, and terror-stricken.  It seems Jack is back in town, carving a new swathe of victims in ritual sacrifice to the primal gateway.<br />Spike claims he helped London's Slayer defeat Jack, in 1888.  Can Buffy believe him?  Or trust him to do it again?<br />This is Nancy Holder's best solo Buffy novel.  It isn't perfect  -  the ending, as in much of her work, is a bit hurried and abrupt  -  but it's slick and clever.  She tinkers a bit with accepted Celtic myth and the history of the Ripper, but suitably within the suspension of disbelief.  The plot would have made a wonderful entire season of Buffy, being more or less the counterpoint to Season Five  -  Jack is essentially the demon-god Glory would have been opening her infamous world-destroying portal to engage in combat with.<br />Holder has always understood and written the Buffy characters very well, and here she does better than ever.  More remarkably, she manages to breathelife into them as they were in Season Six with appreciable wit and humor, which is no small feat since both they and the show in general were at a serious low at that time.<br />I don't know why this book has garnered so many negative reviews.  It's quite entertaining, even if not as fully fleshed-out as it might have been.	2003-06-05
US	39614869	R79R8X8UTSR1C	0521457203	101936801	Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea: Merchant Seamen, Pirates and the Anglo-American Maritime World, 1700-1750 (Canto original series)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Sailing Socialism	Rediker is hardly the only man to notice  -  though he is one of only a very few to have written on the topic at length  -  that the Anglo-American Maritime world of the early to mid 18th Century was a socio-political hotbed of burgeoning revolution.  To criticize the author for being a Marxist is absurd  -  the era about which he is writing, and the sailors and specific cultural events of that era, were socialist themselves, though they wouldn't have had the insight to realize it at the time.<br />Political scientists and economists should find this book of even more interest than historians, as many of the same events in the rise of Capitalism as Rediker writes about are now coming full circle and repeating themselves, with NAFTA and GATT creating the same social conditions that led to widespread  -  and often remarkably effective (in the case of piracy)  -  rebellion between 1700 and 1750.  As Rediker points out, our very word &quot;strike,&quot; in its labor union connotation, originated with merchant mariners striking sail on their ships and halting the movement of their cargoes.<br />Rediker is a remarkably thorough researcher, backing his thesis with the best possible sources and representing both the Capitalist and Labor points of view from contemporaneous documents.  His masterful rendering of the world of &quot;Jack Tar,&quot; an average mariner of the age, ably demonstrates that the social upheaval witnessed during the Golden Age of Piracy was an inevitability  -  as was its eventual downfall.  Rediker is not a Marxist apologist, as his critics claim, but a keen and competent observer of statistical trends and social events, which he elucidates with extreme precision.  He is less advancing any kind of argument, than simply putting the merchant marine world of three centuries ago into clear focus, and to some degree comparing and contrasting it with our modern landscape.<br />This is a truly fascinating book, as much for its brilliantly vivid portraiture of the age as for the validity of its social and economic arguments.  It would make an excellent textbook for political science, economics, or sociology classes.	2003-03-23
US	39614869	R2JOX4EDBTEZL7	1587155826	970744195	The Ghost Pirates (Alan Rodgers Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Devil in the Deep Blue Sea	Seaman Jessop doesn't believe the stories about the Mortzestus being haunted, attributing them to the usual superstitions sailors develop.  But from the time he signs on board the merchant vessel and departs from port in San Francisco, nothing aboard the ship seems right.  Shadows appear to board from beneath the sea at night, and leave the same way, without a trace.  Indistinct figures stalk the masts, and sails inexplicably come loose to knock men to their death on the deck.  Voices are faintly heard, whispering conspiratorially.  And eventually, ships even seem to be sighted  -  beneath the surface of the water.  No one believes Jessop, at first.  But one by one, as occurrences aboard the haunted Mortzestus become more difficult to explain away, the doomed crew start experiencing the apparitions themselves  -  and fearing for their very lives.<br />This book is a masterpiece of maritime menace.  Nothing is ever overtly seen, but always hinted-at and suggested.  There is the constant feeling of something malignant always just out of sight, ready to pounce on the unwary bystander when he least expects it.  Author William Hope Hodgson was a merchant marine himself, between the ages of 14-22, at the turn of the last century, and his characters and dialogue are fully authentic as a result  -  he makes the reader feel the salt spray, and the roughness of the rigging as sails are secured.  H. P. Lovecraft was heavily influenced by Hodgson's works, and it shows.<br />It's wonderful to see this long-neglected horror classic back in print.  There is another edition out as well, combining this excellent (though short) novel with Hodgson's \\"Carnacki the Ghost Finder\\" stories.	2003-03-19
US	39614869	R31YW1RMJGS49H	0595144128	163552208	Raiders and Rebels: The Golden Age of Piracy	Books	5	8	10	N	N	"Will Ye Join Us, Brother?"	This is the single best overall book available on piracy's Golden Age.  Sherry organizes his material very well, telling a straight chronological history of piracy's evolution from early buccaneers to king's privateers to outright pirates.  He devotes separate chapters to the most famous captains, elucidating their personal histories and careers in a clear and concise manner  -  Henry Morgan, Edward Teach (Blackbeard), Edward Low, Bartholomew Roberts (Black Bart), Calico Jack Rackham (and his lesbian pirate associates, Anne Bonney and Mary Read), the ill-fated Captain Kidd, and more.  He also renders a wonderful biography of Woodes Rogers, the privateer-turned-governor of Nassau, a fascinating character whose actions, perhaps more than anyone else's, most damaged the cohesion of piracy  -  helping it fall apart of its own accord, due to disorganization and lack of discipline and foresight.<br />Sherry does not write merely about piracy as seagoing theft, but about the short-lived and surprisingly democratic \\"Maritime Nation.\\"  Few people realize that the \\"Brethren of the Coast\\" (as they styled themselves) were one of the earliest \\"countries\\"  -  and certainly the only one of their age  -  to institute accident and disability insurance and elected leadership, not to mention equal opportunity employment and what essentially amounted to equal-share company stock options.  Sherry does an expert job of illustrating the brutality and oppression of the age, making it clear why so many sailors voluntarily joined ranks with the seafaring rebels  -  whose primary battle cry was not \\"death to all,\\" but \\"Will ye join us, Brother?\\"<br />Many myths are explored and deflated, and many others shown to have a great deal of validity.  There is only one recorded instance of anyone being made to walk the plank, for instance, (even if the pirates played on that prevalent myth to their own advantage), though marooning was indeed the favored form of pirate capital punishment.<br />Most importantly, Sherry does a fine job of making the reader feel what daily life was like for the pirates  -  and for their suffering cousins in the merchant marines and the Royal Navy  -  and portrays them in a sympathetic and understanding light.  He doesn't soft-pedal the darker side of piracy, but he does put it into perspective.<br />Equally recommended is David Cordingly's \\"Under the Black Flag,\\" though Sherry's \\"Raiders and Rebels\\" is better organized and actually more thorough.	2003-03-11
US	39614869	R1A1W6F3HHOPT	0743406443	312415273	The Eugenics Wars, Vol. 2: The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh (Star Trek: Eugenics Wars)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Superman Vs. Supermen	In his final installment of the adventures of genetically bred superman Khan Noonien Singh and extraterrestrial secret-agent nemeses Gary Seven and Isis (and human helpmeet Roberta Lincoln) in the late 20th Century, Greg Cox as brilliantly incorporates Trek storylines with contemporary headlines as in his previous volume, if to slightly more scattershot effect.<br />Now in his twenties, Khan has become a successful dictator in India, with technological resources invented, bought or stolen that, if not the envy of world superpowers, are at least a rival to them.  His dream of uniting the world under the leadership of his fellow genetically engineered superman brethren from the 1970's Chrysalis Project is dealt a fatal blow from the outset, by the simple fact that the fragmented ubermenschen refuse to cooperate with one another, and suffer from their own poisonous paranoias.  One has become the leader of a Star Brothers doomsday cult; another has isolated herself on an island away from the world, with a few of the others; a third is a Bosnian ethnic-cleansing warlord; a fourth has left the United States military to head a white separatist homegrown terrorist organization.  The rest are as badly disorganized, either as ruthless and dangerously effective as Khan himself, or chaotically destructive to themselves and others.<br />Once the supermen have met and failed to come to any cooperative agreement, the next logical step follows:  civil war among them.  Each views his fellows as a rival, and assassination attempts and military skirmishes erupt between them behind the scenes.  Their violence spills occasionally into public view, and claims increasing numbers of innocent civilian lives among the populaces in which they live.<br />Gary Seven and his Intelligence operatives of the benign alien Aegis sometimes pit the supermen against one another simply to keep them from becoming too strong and deadly, their attempts at reasoning with the various factions failing.<br />This book is much more an action-adventure saga than the preceding Intelligence game, focusing far more on Khan and the mad Supermen than on the operations of the Aegis.  It is as involving, suspenseful and engaging as the first volume  -  and Cox's other Gary Seven/Roberta Lincoln novel, Assignment: Eternity  -  but suffers somewhat for the comparative lack of the Aegis operatives' presence as opposed to those other titles.<br />Still, it's a great read, with a number of surprises, and Cox has wisely left the door open to continue further adventures about the Aegis  -  which I hope he gets to writing, sooner rather than later.  Any story with Gary Seven and/or Roberta Lincoln is a welcome discovery, as you'll soon discover if you pick this one up.  And if you like it, don't neglect the other titles, either.	2003-03-06
US	39614869	R30OOA4FMF3Q8W	0425188817	69021739	Sleeper	Books	4	3	3	N	N	From the "X"-Files of the Abwehr	If Dean Koontz wrote Alien, and set it in the labyrinthine halls of the Pentagon instead of an industrial ship in outer space, the result would be pretty much this book.<br />In the midst of basement bedrock repairs in the terrorist-damaged Pentagon of post-9/11, a worker uncovers a cannister from WWII Germany's Abwehr.  The cannister contains what he first believes must be an alien body, but turns out to be something more immediately lively  -  and deadly.  The worker becomes the first in a string of abductions and fatalities, as something starts making short work of the Pentagon's staff.<br />What is the thing working its way through the air shafts and the underwater streams of the Pentagon?  Is it an alien?  Some kind of dinosaur?  An early recombinant DNA experiment of the Third Reich?  Or something altogether more startling?  A crack SEAL team, an expert herpetologist and the Pentagon's chief administrator become their own Intelligence team to find out, before whatever-the-thing-is can wreak more havoc, possibly extending beyond panic among the staff and actually becoming an international incident.<br />This clever thriller reads very much like vintage Koontz, with likeable and credible characters sleuthing-out an unknown nasty that turns out to be a great deal more surprising than even the most avid thriller/sci-fi/action-adventure fans are accustomed to.  It's reminiscent of Koontz's Watchers, Preston and Childs' The Relic, and the aforementioned Alien, but manages to be its own ingenious little piece.<br />A short, easy read, but a satisfying one.	2003-03-02
US	39614869	R28QA522ERNKFK	0312983220	931157258	Area 7 (Scarecrow Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Holiday In Hell	Just before the fourth of July, the President of the United States tours top-secret desert military complex Area 7, where some of America's best germ-warfare experts have discovered a cure to China's ultimate weapon: the Sino-virus, which quickly kills everyone it comes into contact with except those of Asian genetic makeup. What the president doesn't know is that former Air Force General Caesar Russell - supposedly executed for high treason, months ago - has commandeered Area 7, to stage a bizarre and lethal game in commemoration of America's birthday: Russell has managed to secure a monitoring device to the president's heart, which sends a signal to an orbiting satellite; should his heart stop, the satellite will transmit a destruct signal to a number of plasma bombs secreted in America's key airports. Caesar has also gained possession of the president's \\"football\\" - the laptop computer containing the country's nuclear arsenal launch codes - and programmed it to require the president's handprint scan every ninety minutes, or the same devastation will result. What the president has to do, along with his Secret Service and personal Marine bodyguard of Captain Shane Schofield and Co., is survive the onslaught of Caesar's genetically engineered stormtroopers in a fight to the death - with the survivor gaining control of the United States.<br />If you can buy that much of the premise, you'll enjoy this book. A number of even harder to believe complications arise before the end of the story, including assault by Kodiak bears and Komodo dragons, escaped psychotic criminals, elite Afrikaan commandos and a Chinese space shuttle squad. Much of the book's enjoyment requires a healthy suspension of disbelief, and an ability to frequently \\"fill in the blanks\\" as to how, for instance, a renegade (and supposedly dead) Air Force general can manage to raise the support of what amounts to a small army, all without anyone in Washington or the Pentagon any the wiser.<br />There's a great suspense novelist hiding somewhere inside Matt Reilly, and one day maybe he'll get out and write some truly top-notch action-adventure stories. For the moment, Reilly is too enamored of over-the-top movie action, which literally goes on for several chapters on end, is grossly improbable and at times simply impossible to follow, contributing nothing to the plot - he is actually easier to read by skipping forty or fifty pages in some of these sections, filling in the blank with \\"...and they got the better of the bad guys in a firefight.\\" Action like this performs great on a movie screen, but swiftly grows tedious to read.<br />In comparison to Reilly's other books, this one is not as good as Ice Station (to which it is a sequel), but is much better than Temple. It's a pretty good read, but you have to forgive its failings along the way.	2003-02-11
US	39614869	RGDO26P0RKTLY	0515134139	908833882	Target Lock	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sleeping with the Enemy	U.S. Navy Captain Amanda Garrett has an Achilles' heel even she isn't aware of: she has a fatal weakness for pirates. This proves to be rather inconvenient when she finds herself pitted against multimillionaire Indonesian subversive Makara Harconan, a self-styled pirate in possession of a United States satellite stolen from the ocean during naval recovery. Harconan has plans for a Bugis islander native uprising to unseat the Jakartan government, and the black market sale of Uncle Sam's satellite will net him even more megabucks to finance the operation. TACBOSS Amanda manages shutting down Harconan's plans pretty well, in the early stages - until he kidnaps her, to seduce her into becoming Queen to his Pirate King. The scary thing is, he just might succeed...because she wants him to.<br />This book should be a lot better than it is, but it's still pretty good. Its worst flaw is the too-true-blue-to-be-true John Wayne heroics of Amanda and her shipmates, who meet all challenges with guns blazing, yet barely ever muss-up their hair while cold-bloodedly blasting legions of Indonesian foes to bits. The style of this particular novel is clearly calculated to pander to current administration thinking: blow hell out of anything that might be an enemy combatant, whether it is or not, and sort it all out later. This underlying stance, pervasive throughout, actually makes the characters less sympathetic than they might otherwise be, and isn't terribly realistic.<br />However, the action is hot and heavy, the plot (for the most part) holds interest, and the story - at least from the time Amanda becomes the Pirate King's prisoner/love interest - is pretty well handled. Target Lock practically screams for a sequel, and will probably have one. There are echoes of several Ian Fleming novels, notably Dr. No, Live and Let Die, and On Her Majesty's Secret Service - which James Bond entries, if you enjoy this installment in the Amanda Garrett series, you might also want to check out.<br />The reader is to be warned: if you're not into in-depth descriptions of military hardware and blood-and-guts action, this book won't be for you. Action plays fast and exciting in dramatic performance, but reads slowly and sometimes tediously on the printed page. Target Lock suffers (or benefits, depending on your point of view) from a great deal of this. Just thought you'd like to know.	2003-02-06
US	39614869	R2R0I9WHTNACZB	006103018X	552239081	Coldheart Canyon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Flickering Images On the Island of Lost Souls	Just so no one gets the wrong idea, all the flaws in this book listed by other reviewers are there.  It is flawed.  But it's fabulous.<br />Hollywood action hero Todd Pickett is leased a mansion called Coldheart Canyon, in which to hide out while his bungled plastic surgery heals.  Back in its heyday, during the Silent Era, the mansion was owned by a Romanian actress named Katya Lupi.  Katya hosted innumerable wild orgies there, which are still the stuff of legend.<br />Todd's tenure in the Hollywood Hills is about to teach him the truth behind the saying that some legends never die:  not only is Katya still residing in Coldheart Canyon, but so are all the other Silver Screen greats of yesteryear  -  or, at least, some reasonable facsimiles thereof.  The dead never leave the Canyon.  They can't.  They're held prisoner by their own desire, to attain the secret of immortality that can be granted them by a sinister magic of Katya's.  Her denial of their desire makes them all more and more twisted and demented, each passing decade.<br />Katya so likes to remain in control, she's successfully held on to her life and youth for three quarters of a century  -  and, having taken a liking to Todd, she's not about to let him leave.  Whether he wants to stay, or not.<br />As with Barker's best works, this one often succeeds in elevating itself to poetry.  His imagery is brilliantly memorable, his theme wonderfully realized throughout.  Every page of this monster book seethes with human insecurities and vain denials of death  -  and what better place to set a story about the decadence of vanity than in its most recognizable kingdom?<br />Though there are several smaller flaws in this novel  -  the editorial mistakes are a petty complaint  -  the only significant one of note is the concluding 100-page denouement.  The plot proper ends a full hundred pages before the book does, the final chapters being an overlong coda that are virtually a sequel to the main story that is franklyunnecessary.  However, this bizarre finale still ties in beautifully with Barker's overarching theme, providing a sort of separate movement to it.  There are admittedly some unusual character transitions, but then the primary characters in this story are plainly unstable.<br />And for all of these flaws, the story itself is vintage Barker, returning to his original horror roots with a slight overlapping of the fantasy elements he has since become more famous for.  It has strong echoes of his own Cabal and Weaveworld, as well as of Stephen King's The Shining and Peter Straub's Ghost Story.  It's a rich, full read, as diverse and textured as the enchanted mosaic that makes up its foremost plot device.  Barker's usual graphic violence and plentiful use of sex are as much in evidence in this piece as in any of his others.  The characters are quite memorable, the heroine especially, who is quite unlike any other found in literature.<br />But don't compare it to Barker's other books.  Just dive in, and enjoy.  It won't be to everyone's tastes, obviously  -  as a sampling of the other reviews present here will attest  -  but this summary should pretty well tell you whether it will be to your own.	2003-01-17
US	39614869	R1XG00DMDST8Y2	0451410580	271939084	Jake & Mimi	Books	5	10	12	N	N	To Die For	Jake is an effortless seducer.  He can have any woman in less time than it takes another man to watch a movie.  His conquests get more screaming orgasms out of him in an hour than they will with their husbands or lovers in a lifetime.  Jake has torture down to a silken art form  -  his women don't just have sex with him, they totally submit...and love it.<br />Mimi works at the same financial firm Jake just got hired onto.  She's less than a month from marrying the man she's gone steady with for six years.  In a single moment, she's seen in Jake's eyes the power he has over women, and he's sensed her vulnerability  -  and need.  Jake invites her to watch one or two of his overnight conquests, just so she knows what she's getting into.  Mimi's weakening.  Because she wants to.  She can't believe how skilled Jake is.  He's to die for.<br />Problem is, before it's all over, someone will.<br />This is a very clever, extremely well-written erotic thriller  -  with the emphasis on \\"erotic.\\"  It's been called a cross between 9-1/2 Weeks and Silence of the Lambs, though it's actually more reminiscent of David Lindsey's Mercy and some of Anne Rice's or Laurell K. Hamilton's works.  The story is pretty straightforward, and Hitchcockian  -  very voyeuristic, and suspenseful.  What elevates it  -  again, like Hitchcock  -  is the author's style, employing multiple first-person viewpoints to craftily play with the reader's perceptions.<br />The only real flaw with this book is that it takes a little too long to really get cooking  -  aside from the sex, that is.  But that's a minor flaw, for the ultimate satisfaction.	2003-01-17
US	39614869	RK3ZKECNDZDJG	0743412265	603953136	The Lost Slayer Bind-Up (Buffy the Vampire Slayer (Pocket Paperback Unnumbered))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Grandmaster Giles	Buffy makes a mistake in present-day Sunnydale with far-reaching consequences, and finds herself magically transported into the nightmare future her miscalculation has created.  There, Buffy has been a prisoner of the vampires for five years.  The creatures of the night have conquered Sunnydale and its surrounding cities, and are continuing to expand under the tutelage of a new leader more crafty and experienced than the Master:  Rupert Giles, Buffy's former Watcher.  If Buffy can't escape and make her way back to her own time, this is the world that will come to pass  -  a world in which most of her friends and loved ones are dead.<br />When Christopher Golden pulls out the stops, he's hard to beat, and here he's pulled out the stops.  This mammoth Buffy novel has everything any fan could want, and even non-fans might enjoy the story for its own apocalyptic roller-coaster ride.  It's reminiscent of the T.V. series' best episode, \\"The Wish,\\" in which all the characters everyone has come to know and love succumb to a nightmarish alternate-dimension vampire Armageddon, though The Lost Slayer is its own story.  <br />The only real complaint that can be made about this tome is its ungainly length, the consequence of its being a bind-up of four previous shorter serial novels  -  which could easily have been streamlined both editorially and in reduction of typeset size when published in a single volume  -  but that is a small complaint for a big book.  A VERY big book.	2003-01-17
US	39614869	RNMAAFITD1ROB	0312983212	82923820	Saucer	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Sure, It'll Fly to Mars  -  But Can It Make Missouri?	Whiz-kid seismic surveyor Rip Cantrell finds a still-functioning 140,000-year old flying saucer embedded in the Sahara sandstone.  The U.S. Air Force isn't far behind with their recon satellites, sending out UFO investigator and top test pilot Charlotte &quot;Charlie&quot; Pine.  A seedy Australian multi-billionaire sends out his own goon squad to reclaim the ancient artifact for an international auction, and the Libyan government is getting into the act with an air assault that just might stop them all.<br />Under those circumstances, what's a good, patriotic pair of red-blooded Americans to do?  Why, take the saucer out of harm's way for starters, of course  -  even if the only way out is to fly the damn thing to safety.<br />You can't have more fun than this book.  It's a non-stop roller-coaster ride of adolescent fantasy/action-adventure.  The first half is often very, very funny, with Rip and Charlie making headlines around the world as a fleet of invading aliens, as they zip in and about various highway coffee shops for a bite to eat before taking off into orbit to evade heat-seeking interceptor missiles.  The second half is where the uglier adult action begins, with the Rupert Murdoch-esque Australian weapons contractor getting his hands on Charlie and the saucer...but, of course, there's a great deal more fun to be had from there.<br />Ignore the nay-sayers who simply missed the point.  None of this book is meant in any way to be taken that seriously.  It does manage to raise some interesting questions regarding human evolution and ancient civilizations, but they are only lightly touched upon and more or less glossed over in favor of the Disneyland action-ride.  So just hop on in the cockpit, and aim for the stars  -  or Missouri, whichever comes first.	2003-01-17
US	39614869	R3S3XXP3GGH8IR	0743412265	603953136	The Lost Slayer Bind-Up (Buffy the Vampire Slayer (Pocket Paperback Unnumbered))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Grand Master Giles	An ancient Mayan bat-god's highly organized and frighteningly resilient vampire servants are in the process of behind-the-scenes takeover in Sunnydale.  A miscalculation on Giles' and Buffy's part ends up with him captured by the nasty bat-god and her catapulted five years into the future  -  where everything has taken a decided turn for the worse.<br />Future Sunnydale and its surrounding environs are completely owned by the undead.  The vampires now have a leader more organized and strategic than The Master:  Rupert Giles.  Buffy's fatal error of five years ago cost her Watcher's life, turning him into the smartest vampire on the planet  -  one who understands the Slayer's moves and strategies better than any prior foe could ever hope to have done.  Worst of all, Giles has no intention of killing her.  He wants Buffy very much alive  -  or, more specifically, undead  -  to become allied with him, and make him truly unbeatable.  And with her world falling apart, her friends dead and dying, the Initiative defeated, Angel no more than a memory, and no known way back to the world from which she came, that prospect becomes a very real possibility for our beleaguered Slayer...<br />When Golden is on his game, he's hard to beat  -  and he's very much on his game, here.  This is one of the greatest Buffy story ideas ever, and he handles it excellently.  It has similarities to the series' best episode, \\"The Wish,\\" with its nightmare alternate Sunnydale, and incorporates the most memorable elements of the entire first four seasons.  The time-travel angle has logic holes, but they're reasonably unimportant given how richly detailed Golden's action and psychological portraiture of the characters is.<br />The only real complaint about this volume is its sheer size.  Being a collection of the four-part serialized novel, it has some unnecessary padding and repetition.  It should have been re-typeset to a smaller size, and re-edited, instead of simply pasted together from the four prior installments fully intact.  But that is a small complaint  -  for a very, very big book.  And a very, very good one.	2003-01-12
US	39614869	RTMOSXIWE3LXO	0345444086	442894301	Tales of the Lovecraft Mythos	Books	3	38	40	N	N	Indiana Jones and the Demons of Yore	Hardly the best collection from the early Lovecraft acolytes, but one that will certainly appeal to the fourteen-year-old in everyone who loves the Mythos. Editor Price is an admirable scholar of this particular niche in literature, here providing rarely anthologized stories tracing the early evolution of Lovecraft's ideas as practiced by his (generally) less famous pulp fiction contemporaries and fans.<br />The majority of these offerings are in the \\"freebooting adventurer meets his doom in forbidden archaeology\\" vein, a la Conan creator Robert E. Howard - two of whose stories (and only one really a Mythos tale) are duly reprinted, \\"The Thing on the Roof\\" and \\"The Fire of Assurbanipal.\\" Robert Bloch's \\"Fane of the Black Pharaoh,\\" not one of his best but still not bad, has a British explorer running afoul of an ancient Brotherhood protecting the secrets of a mad Egyptian prophet-king. Clark Ashton Smith's \\"The Seven Geases\\" concerns the hypnotic magic of a long-forgotten serpent race, who sacrifice men to their unspeakable dark god. August Derleth - you didn't expect he'd miss out on the act, did you? - collaborates with Mark Schorer on \\"Lair of the Star-Spawn,\\" detailing a missing archaeologist's plan to stop those same serpent-people from releasing their demon-gods upon mankind. (Derleth is also represented by his own virtual plagiarism of Algernon Blackwood, in \\"Ithaqua\\" and \\"The Thing That Walked On the Wind.\\") E. Hoffman Price's \\"The Lord of Illusion\\" and Henry Hasse's \\"The Guardian of the Book\\" tell stories of extraterrestrial wayfarers through the gates of time and space, uncovering ancient and extra-dimensional secrets.<br />Other offerings include more straightforward horror stories, such as Henry Kuttner's \\"Bells of Horror\\" and \\"The Invaders,\\" C. Hall Thompson's \\"Spawn of the Green Abyss,\\" Carl Jacobi's \\"The Aquarium\\" and Duane W. Rimel's \\"Music of the Stars.\\" Many of these, like Derleth's stories and Bertram Russell's \\"The Scourge of B'Moth,\\" are essentially...rehashes of recognizable Lovecraft classics, though one or two are fairly original and worthwhile.<br />And for those who long for the occasional chuckle-break from all the melodramatically histrionic proceedings, Donald A. Wollheim's \\"The Horror Out of Lovecraft\\" and Fritz Leiber's \\"To Arkham and the Stars\\" will fit the bill - the latter, especially, as it comically rapes virtually every famous story Lovecraft ever wrote (with love, of course).<br />These aren't all the stories included in this volume, but they are indicative of the rest - certainly sufficient for anyone to determine whether or not Tales of the Lovecraft Mythos will be worth the \\"Price.\\"<br />Now, if you'll excuse me, there's something at my window. It seems to be - oh, my God! Words cannot describe the utter blasphemous horror of the nameless dread somehow made flesh incarnate! Someone save me, before I succumb to that unutterable -	2003-01-09
US	39614869	RCT7NUOELR8O0	0312983212	82923820	Saucer	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Sure, It'll Fly to Mars - But Will It Make Missouri?	Geological whiz-kid surveyor Rip Cantrell stumbles over a 140,000 year-old flying saucer lodged in Sudanese sandstone, and before he and his science team cronies can say \\"exploit E.T.,\\" the secret is out and everyone's making a grab for it. The U.S. Air Force sends its UFO investigators, including hot-shot young test pilot Charlotte Pine, who takes a mutual liking to Rip. By the time a tipped-off Australian billionaire and the Libyan government make a move on it, Rip and Charlotte have figured out how to fly the still-functioning ancient technology - and do so, fast, to escape all the aforementioned parties and figure out what best to do with the saucer. Many zany hijinks ensue.<br />This is easily one of the most fun books I've ever read. It's part action-adventure, part sci-fi speculation, part spoof, and all entertainment. The entire first half is often very, very funny, with Kip and Charlotte making intentional and unintentional headline news on their flight to escape all authorities. Things turn more serious when the power-players catch up to the hot-rodding young whippersnappers, intent on capitalizing on their particular hot-rod. It all comes to a roller-coaster conclusion in a mini-World War III in Australia, with every major power on Earth hell-bent to either own the twenty-first century's leading edge in technology, or destroy it to insure that no rival nation gets it.<br />Ignore the nay-sayers. They missed the point. This book is just plain kick-in-the-pants fun, from start to finish.<br />Enjoy.	2003-01-09
US	39614869	R22F2POEMT93LX	034545829X	376617524	Waking Up Screaming: Haunting Tales of Terror	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Smallest Gems...	...oft shine the brightest.<br />This is a gorgeous selection of H. P. Lovecraft's most often ignored gems, his short-short stories.  His sole novel (albeit a short one), \\"The Case of Charles Dexter Ward\\"  -  and one of his better long classics, The Shadow Over Innsmouth  -  are also included, along with some of the less frequently anthologized straight horror pieces of the author's body of work, such as \\"The Lurking Fear.\\"  But it's the inclusion of the horror master's best short-shorts that makes this collection really shine, never seen together under a single cover.<br />\\"The Hound\\"  -  perhaps the first of the famous Cthulhu Mythos, as the original story to feature the dreaded Necronomicon  -  finds a pair of foolhardy occult collectors using the black magic tome to track down and grave-rob a buried occult amulet, with disastrous results.  \\"The Outsider\\" is the unforgettable tale of an imprisoned man coming to a soul-shattering self discovery.  \\"The Unnamable\\" is what two idle philosophers, discussing the formless nature of fear, find themselves unexpectedly confronting in the flesh.  \\"Herbert West: Reanimator\\" concocts a serum which reanimates dead flesh, only to have it start tracking him down.  And a terrified refugee from a vanished scientist's house relates the man's horrible fate due to creatures \\"From Beyond.\\"<br />This is an excellent companion volume to Del Rey's \\"The Best of H. P. Lovecraft,\\" essentially containing the complementary balance of stories missing from that collection.  It's also a great Lovecraft primer  -  anyone unfamiliar with the author's work couldn't ask for a better first exposure to it.  A very handsome and compact volume, Waking Up Screaming is sure to be a welcome addition to any collector of Lovecraftiana.<br />Beware  -  for \\"That is not dead, which can eternal lie / And with strange aeons, even death may die...\\"	2003-01-07
US	39614869	R37SQ5813OHE2D	0689855184	109093600	Dreamwalk (Roswell)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Aftermath of Alien Mind Control	Kyle Valenti can't sleep.  One year after the death of his friend Alex, he's haunted by terrible nightmares.  Kyle knows Alex didn't commit suicide, but was murdered by the treacherous Tess, one of Roswell's no-longer resident aliens.  Kyle even helped her kill him, completely oblivious at the time due to Tess's mind-control machinations.<br />If anyone can help Kyle come to grips with his tortured psyche, it's Isabel Evans, whose distinctive alien power is the ability to Dreamwalk  -  literally to enter another person's mind, while sleeping.  Isabel thinks it's a bad idea.  She's never done exactly what Kyle is proposing, or at as deep a level.  She's afraid she might end up hurting Kyle more than helping.  Once she decides to try anyway, she discovers a potentially worse problem than doing inadvertent harm to her friend  -  having entered his deepest dreams, she just might not be able to find her way back out...<br />Ruditis writes the Roswell characters wonderfully, and has a brisk, easy-to-read style.  He doesn't complicate the plot with too many references to past series events, but only those necessary to the story.  All the characters get a pretty fair share of air-play, so to speak, though it's definitely an Isabel story.  Liz and Max have a less-interesting subplot, taking care of a wounded pre-teen cousin of Liz's, which largely comes off like an after-school special but allows for some character exploration of the teenaged alien leader and his human girlfriend.<br />This is really a simple and straightforward story, rather like a very good episode of the T.V. series.  What makes it shine is the writing of the characters, and the depth of feeling between them.  It's short and sweet  -  very sweet, and very good.	2003-01-07
US	39614869	R3MXZH45KURY6Y	0743406427	926743636	The Star Trek: The Original Series: The Eugenics Wars #1: The Rise and Fall of Khan Noonien Singh	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Double-Oh-Extraterrestrial	James Bond should be this good.<br />The original Star Trek series introduced in the episode \\"Assignment: Earth\\" two brilliant characters, extraterrestrial secret agent Gary Seven and his assistant, Greenwich Village hippy Roberta Lincoln, in a sadly failed attempt to spin them off into their own show.  Author Greg Cox has an eye for what 1960s television execs missed, and presents the pair  -  with their added helpmeet, Isis the cat  -  in another excellent story to follow up his first (Assignment: Eternity).<br />In The Eugenics Wars, Cox credibly ties the Star Trek universe's own 1960s to 1980s time-bound characters together, in an immensely satisfying spy/adventure yarn.  Gary Seven  -  extraterrestrial secret agent with a mission to keep Earth from destroying itself in its crucially developmental period of the late twentieth century  -  stumbles upon evidence of a dangerous project in 1974.  Famous genetic researchers have been mysteriously disappearing from public view, and shipments of biological warfare elements and plutonium-grade fissionable material have been making their way out of the country.  Roberta Lincoln goes undercover as a geneticist in a successful attempt to get herself hired onto whatever project the vanished scientists have been recruited for, and Seven tracks his weapons shipments to the same location:  a massive underground eugenics program in India called the Chrysalis Project.  There, leading world geneticist Sarina Kaur is breeding a future generation of supermen for world conquest  -  the most promising of which is her son, Khan Noonien Singh.<br />Bringing Kaur's mad project to an end, however, is only the beginning of a much longer, and even more involving, story.  Seven monitors Khan's progress over the years, eventually recruiting him as a pre-teenager to help him and Roberta with their benevolent mission on Earth.  Khan, unfortunately, is not so easily trainable.  A product of his environment, the young Khan is horrified at atrocities occurring in his native India (a smallpox epidemic and the notorious Bhopur chemical spill) that Seven, with all his superior extraterrestrial technology, cannot anticipate and prevent.  The aging mentor and his brilliant protege come to a parting of the ways, followed by overlapping missions of mutual interest, and develop into uneasy allies-cum-antagonists.<br />The plot and characterizations alone make this book a superior read in the spy-suspense genre, but Cox makes the experience all the more enjoyable by including references to numerous other Star Trek elements  -  from original series guest characters to Next Generation personages to occurrences in the movie series  -  and with a prodigiously researched panoply of true-life historical incidents brilliantly interwoven into the story.<br />This book, and the equally excellent Assignment: Eternity, are well worth the time and money to read.  Hopefully, Cox will succeed in turning Gary Seven and Roberta Lincoln into their own successful book series.  They really are fabulous characters, and he writes them extremely well.	2003-01-05
US	39614869	R1KFROEBX3KGZ8	0689854463	618951640	Skeletons in the Closet (Roswell)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Almost Too Much Meat On Its Bones, But Worth the Read	Not the best of the series, but a worthy addition.  It reads like one of the better-than-average episodes of the show.<br />Michael  -  as usual  -  is in trouble with the law over his delinquent past, this time in more hot water than ever:  he's suspected of murdering his brutal stepfather.  Sheriff Valenti is up to his neck as well, since  -  as usual  -  he knows who the old man's killer must have been:  Nasedo, the now-deceased shapeshifting alien who watched over Michael and his equally alien friends.  Valenti's covering-up has come to the attention of the man who took Valenti's job away from him, spotlighting the number of times Valenti has performed in like fashion in the past.  In the meantime, Michael's fellow aliens, Max and Isabel, are hot on the trail of one of the gene-donors their alien parents abducted and used to create their human appearance and nature  -  a genetic scientist who is the spitting image of the alien kids' personal Judas (and mother of Max's son), Tess.<br />The real problem with this particular entry isn't a lack of knowledge of the show and its characters, but an overabundance of it.  The authors plainly know all the multiple soap-opera ins and outs, and reference so many of them that a newcomer to the Roswell stories  -  or even someone only partly aware of them  -  will quickly become lost, if they're not careful.  However, the characters are wonderfully written, and the action and the plot remain steady.  Numerous delightful inside-joke touches are added, such as Isabel's noticing her hair style is similar to that of a nameless WB (the station that aired the show) actress, and Max and Isabel's personal song being the series' theme by Dido.<br />You could do better, but not much.  Well worth reading.  It will be more comprehensible to real series fans, but even if you're not, you can keep up with it  -  if you try.	2003-01-04
US	39614869	RBT8YWH7EWWAY	0671001175	471925612	Assignment: Eternity (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Grokkin' Spock!	This book is more 1960s than anything written or aired in the '60s.  It's a pop-culture mavin's dream.  Cox livens his story up with so many '60s touches, it'll really tickle your fancy if you grew up then  -  and probably if you didn't.  Its numerous references include events from contemporaneous T.V. and movie fare such as James Bond, The Avengers, The Prisoner and Stanley Kubrick's 2001.  There's even a backstory incident dropped in from another failed Gene Roddenberry pilot of the early 1970s, The Questar Tapes.<br />Picking up the ball T.V. dropped in 1968, Cox takes the characters from the original series' &quot;Assignment: Earth&quot; and gives them a whole new story to play in.  That episode was intended as a pilot for a series all its own, and of course that pilot never took off.  With any luck, Cox will continue more adventures with extraterrestrial secret agent Gary Seven and his Greenwich Village hippy-chick assistant, Roberta Lincoln  -  and Seven's other &quot;female&quot; sidekick, Isis the cat  -  and spin them off into the series they should have been on T.V.  If so, he couldn't have gotten off to a better start than this entry in the Star Trek book series.<br />This time around, Seven's future colleague, Septos, sends a cry for help from his base deep undercover in Romulan space, where an especially vicious Romulan secret policewoman commander named Dellas has appropriated much of his superior alien technology for an attempt on the life of Mr. Spock that will destroy the future reunification of the Romulans and the Vulcans.  In order to prevent this catastrophe, Seven, Roberta and Isis teleport into the Enterprise's time, taking Captain Kirk and his crew to Romulan space  -  where, if they're not careful, they'll end up causing an interplanetary war even without Dellas' clandestine machinations.<br />The characters are all brilliantly written, Seven and Roberta especially, without a false note to be found in the bunch.  In addition to Cox's many pop-culture references are as many from not only the original Star Trek episodes, but several from the '80s and '90s movies and even The Next Generation.<br />Unbelievably, this gem is out of print.  Hunt it down.  Especially since Cox is taking the characters further now, with his Eugenics War series  -  tying Seven into the origin of Khan Noonien Singh.<br />A real feast for Trekkies and '60s kids, and even non-series fans will probably enjoy it.	2002-12-29
US	39614869	R2NKGKK22HP3DY	0843950692	767929266	Servants of Chaos (Leisure Horror)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Levity With Lovecraft	Reads like a Lovecraftian role-playing game plays  -  fast, action-packed, clever and often rather funny.<br />But one of the author's own paragraphs should pretty well enable you to determine whether this book will be your cup of tea:<br />\\"Well, doctor, you see this bizarre cult was worshipping some superhuman creature from another dimension, and when I destroyed their temple two giant squids from another world destroyed the town.  I managed to escape, but naturally I had to kill a man in the process, and now I need to rescue my friend from a man who is preparing to destroy the entire world...Sure.  Not only would they believe me and let me go, they'd award me the Congressional Medal of Honor.\\"<br />If that little speech entertains you as much as it does me, this is the book for you.	2002-12-27
US	39614869	RRURXHRU7K7SJ	0446611972	705378585	Dark Winter	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Ultimate Cold War	Geologist Jed Lewis took a last-minute detour to Antarctica, as a favor to a friend.  Seems Amundsen-Scott base's grand old man, astrophysicist Mickey Moss, may have found a Martian meteorite  -  and if he has, it could well be worth up to five million dollars.  With that kind of money at stake, and a secret that can't last five minutes among twenty-six so close-knit administrators and scientists, it isn't long before the rock disappears...and, one by one, so do the crew of Amundsen-Scott.  As if the cash incentive of the possible meteorite isn't enough, one of this year's base members is actually an exceptionally dangerous psychopath  -  who already has more than one murder to his credit.<br />This is a tightly-written, deeply involving thriller, part murder mystery, part action-adventure, and all survival story.  The characters are memorable and well-drawn, no mean feat given the size of the cast.  Dietrich is a Pulitzer Prize-winning science writer for the Seattle Times and a real-life visitor of the famous international Antarctic base, giving his descriptions of living conditions in polar hell a keener edge than mere fiction.  The suspense is excellent  -  though Dietrich could perhaps have made determining the killer's identity more difficult  -  and the action and the violence hold your attention, throughout.<br />I've read a great many polar adventure stories, from Alastair Maclean's \\"Ice Station Zebra\\" and John W. Campbell's \\"Who Goes There?\\" (The Thing) to more recent entries like Matthew Reilly's \\"Ice Station\\" and Preston and Childs' \\"The Ice Limit,\\" and of the lot, I'd have to rank this with Campbell's famous sci-fi action/adventure tale and \\"The Ice Limit\\" as the best-written and most memorable  -  in fact, Dietrich even pays The Thing an early homage in his gripping (or should that be \\"chilling\\"?) novel.<br />Ultimately, this thoroughly engrossing read even manages to be something of an Antarctic war story  -  the ultimate \\"cold war,\\" as it were.  Don'thesitate to snap it up.  And don't forget your long-johns.	2002-12-22
US	39614869	RDTK927BLNO0V	078601475X	361558413	The Forgotten (Pinnacle horror)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	High-Tech Horrors	Psychologist Will Banning is seeing a bizarre increase in schizophrenic behavior, in his little California hometown of Caledonia.  That's not all he's seeing: he's seeing ghosts.  So, apparently, are his patients  -  and his friends.  Birds are smashing into home and office windows in record number.  Fish are fleeing the ocean.  Housepets are strangely skittish.  Worst of all, Will's creepy sociopathic brother is trying to wedge his way back into Will's life.<br />What's going on?  Earth tremors?  Government experiments?  Solar flares?<br />Thorne tips her hand early on, so it's not spoiling anything to say there's a clandestine high-tech military experiment in progress.  But are secret microwaves causing shared hallucinations  -  or actually attuning people's mental vibrations to seeing real ghosts?<br />Finding out is only part of the fun.  As usual, Thorne crafts a sardonically wry story with witty and memorable characters.  Her style is highly reminiscent of early Dean Koontz, back when he was writing lean, mean thrillers.  The dialogue is crisp and often wickedly funny, the characters likeable, the plot constantly in motion.  Thorne's one typical flaw is evident here, which is a too-abrupt conclusion  -  but that hardly detracts from the enjoyment of the ride.  Fans of her earlier novels will be pleased to see characters from Haunted and Candle Bay in minor support roles in this story.<br />If you haven't yet had the pleasure of encountering Tamara Thorne, this is as good a place as any to start.  I heartily recommend all of her books.  She never disappoints.	2002-11-23
US	39614869	R2KSFP5M5XU4QV	0380820889	695846125	Blindsighted	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Slaughtering Thomas Harris	Never was an author more aptly named.  This debut crime/horror novel is the best of its type since The Silence of the Lambs, and gives Thomas Harris a run for his money.<br />Police officer Lena Adams' twin sister is brutally murdered in the local small-town diner restroom  -  in the middle of the day  -  where coroner Sara Linton finds her, mere minutes after the assailant has fled.  The killing is more than usually vicious and perverse, and Sara's ex-husband, police chief Jeff Tolliver, is certain he's up against a serial killer who will strike again.  Sure enough, the body of a recently missing college coed turns up within the week, ravaged abominably.  Is the killer an out-of-towner?  A first-timer, or someone gaining experience?  Given the resemblance of the second victim to Lena's sister, is he a typical serial predator  -  or was he after Lena in the first place, simply hitting the wrong target?  And what, exactly, is the secret Sara Linton has been living with for twelve years, that just may answer all of those questions?<br />This is a three-A.M., gritty, grisly, clammy-palmed read, not for the faint of heart or queasy of stomach.  Only Thomas Harris or David Lindsey have hitherto written this kind of story this well, and Slaughter promises to match them with this first in her coming series of Sara Linton thrillers.  I can't wait for the next.	2002-11-17
US	39614869	RHQ5K7VY01ADU	044024126X	743256516	Taken	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Don't Be	It may gain something in its epic twenty-hour performance that it lacks on the page, but the script to this sci-fi soap opera is a major letdown. The story's UFOlogy is a cut-and-paste pastiche of the least credible \\"government insider\\" stories of the last twenty years, with barely any connection to actual facts concerning the subject. Given that this is an entertainment and not a factual primer, this would not be so bad in and of itself, if the plot was at least captivating - but it is far too episodic to manage that.<br />The characters, though well-drawn, are all too briefly utilized to sustain interest. The aliens are conversely very poorly drawn, and barely explained. When we discover what their purpose is, it isn't very credible or satisfying, and the actual climax is so lame and unbelievable as to leave the reader groaning. Anyone whose tolerance is low for Steven Spielberg's \\"Wonder Children\\" should definitely avoid this one - it comes to a childishly simplistic finish.<br />If you're looking for stellar entertainment, wait for the miniseries - though, personally, I'm glad I read this first, as it spares me twenty agonizing hours in front of the tube - which will, at least, no doubt have eye-popping special effects.<br />Without saying too much (in case you're planning on going ahead and reading it anyway, or don't want the miniseries spoiled), this will appeal to fans of the series Dark Skies or the weaker \\"shapeshifting alien\\" episodes of The X-Files, but not to anyone else.<br />It's coming - and you have been warned.	2002-11-17
US	39614869	R2JL93DA3506U	0451206096	266675919	The Collection	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Valley Gorge!	Little wastes his time on horror.  He's really a comedy writer.  And these are his funniest routines.  There are a few legitimate horror pieces in Little's oddball \\"collection,\\" but they pale next to his more plentiful comic gems.<br />The crowning glory is \\"The Washingtonians,\\" as hilarious a take on Masonic conspiracy theory as you could possibly imagine  -  and then some.  See, there's this secret society that has protected  -  and continues to practice  -  George Washington's secret vice:  cannibalism!  Valley Forge got a mite cold and lean of foodstuffs, so the father of our country ended up eating a few of his soldiers, by which a new secret rite was invented.  Any historian unfortunate enough to stumble upon the dread truth incurs the wrath of the secret society bearing our Founding Father's name, who hunt the poor unfortunate down decked out in knee-breeches and 18th century wigs.  And if you think they're bad, just wait till you meet the Redcoats...<br />Numerous other hors-d'ouevres on Little's snack plate of macabre levity include such goodies as a comedy of errors involving the hiring of a hit-man by a neighborhood ladies' sewing circle, that is worthy of Monty Python.<br />Don't take my word for it  -  prove it to yourself.  Run, don't walk, to your nearest computer bookseller, and snap-up the funniest helping of twisted humor since The Addams Family.  I did, and found myself laughing so hard in a public place that I embarassed myself to death and am writing this review from beyond the grave  -  where The Collection is a real bestseller, let me tell you!	2002-11-15
US	39614869	R3OGTJZGBF8VA5	1569717370	245403594	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 13: Haunted	Books	5	4	6	N	N	"Well, Gosh!"	You just can't keep a bad Slayer down  -  not in Sunnydale, at least!<br />Buffy finds herself up against a body-hopping nightmare with attitude  -  a single intelligence animating all sorts of evil undead nasties, with a special taste specifically for her and her Scooby Gang.  What  -  or who  -  could it be?  Buffy's best clue should probably be who is suddenly haunting her dreams:  Faith the Fallen, still in coma in the hospital, but active as hell on Buffy's psychic psyche.  Every time the battle-weary Slayer falls asleep, her arch-nemesis combats Buffy in \\"Dreamland\\"  -  a place Faith has learned to navigate especially well, given the several months she's been in that netherworld between life and death.  Which raises the old question as to whether or not, if one dies in a dream, they will also die in real life  -  but then (so Faith informs her), Buffy is already dead...<br />Veteran Buffy series writer Jane Espenson penned this little goodie, which heralds the welcome arrival of that great diabolical duo, Faith and the Mayor  -  yes, the discarnate intelligence stalking the Scoobies is, of course, the Mayor (which is revealed in the opening panels, so I'm not spoiling anything)  -  to Buffy's comic book adventures.  The artwork, in common with all the Buffy graphic novel series, is spotty  -  sometimes good, sometimes not so good  -  but the story is strong, and the writing of Faith and especially the Mayor is fabulous.  There are also some nice tie-ins between the third and fourth season of the show (when this story is set), bridging the demise of Sunnydale High and Buffy's discovery of the military underground Initiative.<br />Given that the evil Mayor Wilkins is such a nerd, there's as much humor as horror to this particular story, making it one of the most entertaining the series has to offer.  Perhaps his own exit line from Season Three  -  the best ever, in the show  -  sums \\"Haunted\\" up best:  \\"Well, gosh!\\"	2002-09-21
US	39614869	R2HLR17CZHVYFO	0753506319	191357889	Slayer: An Expanded and Updated Unofficial and Unauthorized Guide to Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Stake  -  Well Done	Topping brings the same kind of witty summarization  -  or should that be \\"Summers\\"-ization?  -  and analysis to Buffy as he previously did to The Avengers (The Avengers Dossier).<br />Non-fans may get a bit confused by Toppings' sometimes too-brief episode breakdowns, though he manages to convey what needs to be known.  Where he really shines is in minutia and trivia.  Topping obviously has way too much time on his hands and far too little to do, or he would never catch all the continuity errors he has  -  e.g., change of position in placement of a pencil on a desk or book from one moment in a given scene to the next, or change of hair length (when stunt-doubles step in), sleeves going from rolled up to rolled down, etc.  And that's ignoring the multitude of logic errors Buffy is famous for.  For example, if vampires have no breath, how does Spike smoke?  If they cast no reflection, why do we see them in plates of glass (and why do they photograph)?  If they have to be invited in, why do strange vampires so often seem to manage their way into the Summers home (and other locations) without an invitation?  And all this is only going into the logic flaws of the vampires, when there are numerous other areas they manifest  -  all of which Topping takes great delight in pointing out, never mean-spiritedly, but with the companionable delight of a true fan.<br />Similarly, he spotlights all the main areas in any given episode of good and bad fashion choices, pop-culture references, best one-liners (in numerous different categories), and so on, for the first five seasons of the show  -  up to Buffy's demise on the WB, and before her UPN resurrection (I refer here to the most recent update of this book, of course).  Rarely does he miss a humorous gem from the series, though I must confess, I'm surprised Xander's \\"Inca Mummy Girl\\" quip  -  \\"Rodney is God's gift to the Bell curve; what he lacks in smarts, he makes up for in lack of smarts.\\"  -  failed to be noted, along with afew others.<br />Topping has so much food to cover on this rich plate that he sometimes forgets to follow-up his own side-notes, but that is a small matter.  It's hardly perfect, but it's as close as you could hope for given the breadth and scope of his subject matter.  Fans will enjoy reliving their favorite moments of the show and discovering more trivial notes concerning it than they ever dreamed existed, and non-fans will get such a rich taste of the pop-culture smorgasbord we call \\"Buffy\\" that they won't be able to resist sampling the actual show.<br />This book is a highly entertaining way to kill a few hours, whether you're a fan or not.	2002-09-19
US	39614869	R3APNZO1AKZGVS	0743418379	729603832	Shades (Roswell)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Masquerade de la Mort	The best of the Roswell books to date, with a plot worthy of H. P. Lovecraft or Nigel Kneale.<br />Earth-dwelling aliens Max and Isabel Evans and Michael Guerin find themselves at the center of an odd phenomenon manifesting around Roswell:  the return of the dead.  All over town, and in the nearby Indian reservation, people are seeing ghosts  -  with considerable attitude.  Far from harmless apparitions, these shades bite.<br />Max's Indian friend River Dog says it all has something to do with an ancient prophecy.  Max is more skeptical.  While any number of people are being assaulted by the dangerous apparitions, only he, Isabel and Michael can see them all, in whatever guise they take.  And that means their unearthliness is genuinely \\"unearthly,\\" in the truest sense of the word  -  the ghosts haunting Roswell are something literally not from planet Earth.  In fact, they're not even really ghosts.  They're something a great deal worse...<br />Mel Odom is a sure hand at writing series-based novels with pre-established characters and settings (he writes for the Buffy and Sabrina the Teenage Witch franchises, as well), and it shows here.  He realizes the Roswell characters, perfectly.  The dialogue is crisp, the action brisk.  There's more meat than usual to the story, the plot filled with suspense and clever twists and turns.  This isn't just a good Roswell novel, it's plain good science fiction.<br />Good stuff.	2002-09-15
US	39614869	R166RON0M15WHA	0743418360	660042068	Little Green Men (Roswell (Simon Pulse), #3,)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	That Was No Lime-Ade - That Was My Wife!	Nothing extraordinary, here - this book is a quick, breezy, easy read - but it does catch the style, tone and characters of the T.V. series extremely well. In fact, it reads like nothing more than one of the show's better-written episodes.<br />When a substantial number of Roswell's population abruptly begin turning green, right before onlooker's eyes, you have to know the military is going to quickly surmise that some kind of diabolical germ warfare agent is at work and quarantine those affected. Roswell's resident aliens seem to be completely unaffected by the outbreak - even if some of their close friends in the know are stricken - but it goes without saying that this green-skinned madness has something to do with their otherworldly presence, and they know it. Max, Isabel, Michael and their alien-sympathizing friends have to find the solution within forty-eight hours, or not only will the afflicted locals remain green for the rest of their lives, but the military's investigations are sure to intensify and turn up the alien cause of this bizarre plague...and that will lead straight to our otherwise well-concealed alien trio.<br />Fans of the series will love it. Newcomers will be entertained.	2002-09-12
US	39614869	R3UTV5BR3G9P4P	0061057517	583272498	Dark Shadows : Anglique's Descent	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Persephone Unhinged	Only a Scorpio or the woman who originally played the central character of the deranged witch, Angelique, on the original Dark Shadows soap opera could have written this fabulously demented story of mad revenge  -  and, happily, Lara Parker is both.<br />The first half of this novel is invented out of whole cloth by Parker, since the supernatural soap opera never delved that deeply into Angelique's beginnings in the late 18th century, and is surprisingly clever and interesting.  Angelique is taken from her nature-healing mother by her cane plantation-owning father in Martinique, who correctly surmises that if he can convince the slaves his young daughter is really the voodoo goddess Erzulie  -  when she is in reality, of course, nothing but his own mouthpiece  -  he can get them to do anything he wants, and bear increasing hardships.  Angelique, however, has a genuine knack for true witchcraft, which manifests itself over time and ultimately foments an uprising of the very slaves her evil father wished to subdue.<br />The second half of Angelique's epic story is already familiar to fans of the series, though they will no doubt enjoy reading Parker's well-written rendition of it:  Angelique escapes the chaos of Martinique, becomes personal maid to the spoiled young French society darling Josette Dupres, and falls in love with wealthy adventurer Barnabas Collins  -  who, after a passionate affair with Angelique, ends up betrothed by circumstance to Josette, initiating an increasingly ugly vendetta-by-witchcraft that ultimately costs both Barnabas and Angelique their lives.<br />Parker is not the most polished of writers  -  she is an actress, by profession  -  but her style is smooth and easy, and the story is well thought-out, well told, and genuinely exciting and fascinating.  It's also surprisingly well researched, only off on one or two minor historical points that are really of no consequence.<br />Hopefully, this series will continue  -  and, if it does, hopefully Parker will write another.  This book is currently out of print, but is well worth searching out, both for fans of the original series and for fans of Anne Rice-style supernatural/historical romances.	2002-09-08
US	39614869	R2CQGC7MF4E5JG	0743400372	661842082	These Our Actors (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Frayed Knot	This one would more appropriately be headed \\"Willow the Wicca Witch Woman,\\" than \\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\\" - Buffy, Xander, Giles, Tara and Anya have virtually nothing more than cameo appearances in this story, and Dawn isn't in it at all. It's almost entirely about Willow and Spike - and Spike's earliest vampire family, Angelus, Darla and Drusilla.<br />The story is two overlapping stories told simultaneously, one being that of Willow discovering some untoward witchiness in Sunnydale U.'s theater in the present day, the other being that of Spike's transition from William, \\"the bloody bad poet,\\" to Spike the Bloody, the Big Bad Vampire, and his exploits in London of 1880. One of Spike's first adventures as a vampire was to take revenge against those who slighted him, which included the unrequited object of his affections, Cecily Addams - whose father, through black magic, is still alive and well in Sunnydale, a hundred and twenty years later. Spike has unfinished business with Addams, and Willow has to discover and prevent the theatrical ritual Addams presently intends to use for purposes unknown, the result of which will be catastrophic. The whole thing has something to do with the summoning of the Greek Fates and Furies, by whose power the fabric of the entire world could fray and become unraveled.<br />The plot is good, and so is the writing - but the combined effect of the overlapping stories in two different time frames and the bizarre absence of Buffy (not to mention everyone else) from the entire proceedings weakens the whole, considerably. The actual pairing of Willow and Spike for this particular adventure is credibly enough handled, but it occurs too late in the book to be fully developed or to be of much interest. When all is said and done, not a whole lot really happens in either of the stories being told, and the finale comes out of nowhere and is over almost before it starts, proving to be rather anticlimactic.<br />This is not one of the stronger entries in the book series. However, it is well-written and an easy read.  Fans of the Buffy series' seminal vampire family - Darla and Angelus, Spike and Dru - will definitely love it.  Newer readers will want to start with a stronger title, before trying this one.	2002-09-08
US	39614869	R3VA2653L4WKEX	0486229777	203162394	Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood (Dover Mystery, Detective, & Other Fiction)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wanderers Through the Borderlands	This is hardly a comprehensive collection of Blackwood's work  -  nor, as the title suggests, does it contain all of his best  -  but it is certainly representative of the author's best-known and most influential stories, and the price is right.<br />The lesser portion of the book contains some of Blackwood's earlier and more negligible stories, though even most of these are elevated by their style.  The greater portion is devoted to his novellas of cosmic terror, where wanderers in various borderlands encounter The Unknown  -  in one form or another.  The most famous, leading off the collection, is \\"The Willows,\\" which H. P. Lovecraft  -  upon whose subsequent development this story shows  -  called the best horror story written.  In it, a pair of voyagers down the Danube come to rest on an island that seems somehow to be tenanted by invisible entities from some other dimension that plan on keeping at least one of the travelers permanently with them.  It reads a great deal like Lovecraft's \\"Shadow Over Innsmouth,\\" and, if anything, is a great deal creepier for the insidious tenuosness of its horrors.<br />Similarly, \\"The Wendigo\\" finds a pair of hunters in the Canadian wilderness stalked by a never-seen creature from Indian folklore, which spirits one of them away in the night to a terrible fate.  Another traveler finds himself drawn into wintry isolation by \\"The Glamour of the Snow.\\"  A middle-aged student returns to the much-changed school of his youth in the German woods, where he is preyed upon by wraiths who practice \\"Secret Worship.\\"  A tourist discovers the distant French village in which he has unwittingly become trapped is the site of \\"Ancient Sorceries.\\"<br />Perhaps the crowning gem in this collection is the rarely reprinted novella \\"Max Hensig,\\" which is not a conventional ghost story at all, but a brilliant crime thriller worthy of Alfred Hitchcock, in which a newspaper reporter is stalked by an acquitted homicidal psychopath who has targeted him for murder owing to his stance against him in the press.<br />Great reading, especially for fans of the horror genre.	2002-08-29
US	39614869	R35SEI45G4PQ0B	0486229777	203162394	Best Ghost Stories of Algernon Blackwood (Dover Mystery, Detective, & Other Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wanderers Through the Borderlands	This is hardly a comprehensive collection of Blackwood's work  -  nor, as the title suggests, does it contain all of his best  -  but it is certainly representative of the author's best-known and most influential stories, and the price is right.<br />The lesser portion of the book contains some of Blackwood's earlier and more negligible stories, though even most of these are elevated by their style.  The greater portion is devoted to his novellas of cosmic terror, where wanderers in various borderlands encounter The Unknown  -  in one form or another.  The most famous, leading off the collection, is \\"The Willows,\\" which H. P. Lovecraft  -  upon whose subsequent development this story shows  -  called the best horror story written.  In it, a pair of voyagers down the Danube come to rest on an island that seems somehow to be tenanted by invisible entities from some other dimension that plan on keeping at least one of the travelers permanently with them.  It reads a great deal like Lovecraft's \\"Shadow Over Innsmouth,\\" and, if anything, is a great deal creepier for the insidious tenuosness of its horrors.<br />Similarly, \\"The Wendigo\\" finds a pair of hunters in the Canadian wilderness stalked by a never-seen creature from Indian folklore, which spirits one of them away in the night to a terrible fate.  Another traveler finds himself drawn into wintry isolation by \\"The Glamour of the Snow.\\"  A middle-aged student returns to the much-changed school of his youth in the German woods, where he is preyed upon by wraiths who practice \\"Secret Worship.\\"  A tourist discovers the distant French village in which he has unwittingly become trapped is the site of \\"Ancient Sorceries.\\"<br />Perhaps the crowning gem in this collection is the rarely reprinted novella \\"Max Hensig,\\" which is not a conventional ghost story at all, but a brilliant crime thriller worthy of Alfred Hitchcock, in which a newspaper reporter is stalked by an acquitted homicidal psychopath who has targeted him for murder owing to his stance against him in the press.<br />Great reading, especially for fans of the horror genre.	2002-08-29
US	39614869	R358ZA6ID6RMBU	1569714290	573404773	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Vol. 0: The Origin	Books	5	24	26	N	N	The Movie You Didn't See	It reads entirely differently than it performed in the movie  -  but it's exactly the same script.<br />This graphic novel version is fabulous.  It's the script for the movie that started it all, done the way Joss Whedon obviously intended it.  It's still got its good comedic bits, but the drama plays much better.  The illustrators have depicted Buffy in her now most famous guise, as Sarah Michelle Gellar, though  -  oddly  -  they've opted to utilize the rendition of her first Watcher, Merrick, from his one cameo appearance in a flashback on the T.V. series instead of depicting Donald Sutherland from the film, where everything else is faithful to the movie.<br />&quot;The Origin&quot; is true to its advertisement:  it's Buffy from the beginning, where she came to her calling at Hemery High, trained for her reluctant future role in life, first tested herself against a superior opponent, and prematurely outgrew her frivolous pre-teen youth to adopt a responsible persona.  There are only minor changes from the film version, the most notable being that of the demise of Merrick, which makes more sense here than it did on screen, presumably because the movie altered Whedon's vision.<br />The best thing about this piece is simply the artwork.  It's worth the cost for that, alone.<br />Enjoy the Buffy you never really knew, but only thought you did.	2002-08-25
US	39614869	R1OTDIZZNBTBUN	0812518039	291778327	Midnight Sun	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Something Frigid This Way Comes...	Ellen is worried about her husband, successful children's book author Ben Sterling.  Ever since inheriting the family house in isolated Stargrave, his old childhood demons have been reemerging.  Ben's father was crazy  -  he traveled to the ends of the earth researching legends of the midnight sun, and committed suicide by stripping naked in a snowy clearing  -  and Ellen is beginning to be afraid Ben might just be a chip off the old block.<br />But soon something starts scaring her worse  -  Ben's insistence that an eldritch god is awakening in Stargrave to reshape the planet in its image seems less a fantasy than when he and his crazy father first started spouting the idea.  Stargrave is changing.  It's getting colder.  More isolated.  The trees, the snow, the very frost itself, increasingly appears to be rearranging itself into that god's own image.  Which means, perhaps, that Ben isn't a madman at all, but a genuine prophet  -  and if that is the case, then the end of the world is at hand...<br />This is one of Campbell's best, and that's saying a lot.  The novel is uneven, and could have been structured better, but overall it's a steadily mounting masterpiece of menace.  It's most reminiscent of Algernon Blackwood and H. P. Lovecraft, in that its horror is genuinely cosmic and never truly seen except for the effects of its presence.  Dramatically, it's highly reminiscent of Stephen King's The Shining, in that a snowbound woman protects her children from her increasingly unstable (and quite possibly dangerous) husband, with an unseen supernatural being influencing events from the frozen shadows.<br />Sadly  -  like most of Campbell's best work  -  this book is out of print, but it's well worth trying to find anyway if you're a fan of well-crafted, creep-up-behind-you horror.	2002-08-21
US	39614869	RFNMQ2X7CCP9P	0312267894	630416400	Vincent Price: A Daughter's Biography	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Portrait of a Renaissance Man	This biography is surprisingly good, considering the subject's own daughter wrote it.  Victoria Price manages to remain objective in discussing her father's life, though  -  as is only to be expected  -  she accentuates the positive and quickly glances by the negative.  Not that this is a bad thing (I wouldn't expect, or necessarily be attracted to, some kind of expose on the man), but it does leave unanswered questions.<br />Victoria brings up Vincent's \\"grey listing\\" during the House Un-American Activities Committee hearings, and his getting around it by making some general pro-American/anti-Communist statements to the FBI denoting basic agreement with them (citing organizations and non-named individuals as being un-American) for instance, and even that his affirmations to the contrary were later discovered (by her) to be false, but this is quickly glossed over  -  as is her father's \\"occasional drinking problem,\\" which she tantalizingly hints was an ongoing familial difficulty but refuses to detail.  Vincent was involved in the 1959 rigged quiz-show hearings for his part in The $64,000 Question, about which Victoria hastens to inform us he was found innocent, or at least ignorant, of  -  though oddly she virtually proves the actor's at least semi-knowing involvement in his behind-the-scenes pre-briefings before airtime.<br />Victoria is best at presenting the human side of the man, which is after all what a good biography does.  Her greatest strength is in detailing his psychological development and early career, pre-horror star status.  She falters considerably from Vincent's American International Pictures years on, admitting herself that she still hasn't seen his many famous horror films.  Anyone looking for information on those projects and those years would do best to look elsewhere.<br />Still, that this is a less thorough biography than it could be is a matter of little import.  It does genuinely paint a warm portrait of what Vincent Price was, by one of the people who would know best:  an accomplished art critic and collector, a gourmand, a generous benefactor to those in need, a concerned and active political man, a devoted father, and (of course) a celebrated actor.  Victoria does at least mention her father's flaws, in such fashion as one can only sympathize with them, and does a wonderful job of presenting the famous actor as the remarkably vigorous and witty Renaissance man he was.he people who would know best:  an accomplished art critic and collector, a gourmand, a generous benefactor to those in need, a concerned and active political man, a devoted father, and (of course) a celebrated actor.  Victoria does at least mention her father's flaws, in such fashion as one can only sympathize with them, and does a wonderful job of presenting the famous actor as the remarkably vigorous and witty Renaissance man he was.	2002-08-15
US	39614869	R1F6XY8KSV77OK	0806516003	554522938	The Complete Films Of Vincent Price (Citadel Film)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	&quot;Priceless&quot; Pictures from an Actor's Life	Forget the biographical portion of this book  -  it's short and general, though sufficient to the purpose of what this volume really is, which is a celebration of Price's life and films.<br />What sells this book is the pictures.  Gorgeous stills from all of Price's movies  -  and quite a few from his life and stage plays, as well  -  plentifully stuff this beautiful coffee-table offering, on every page.  Each film is discussed briefly, along with notes on its place in Price's life and ouevre, and accompanied by comments from his directors, producers and co-stars, and even Price, himself.  Each picture is worth a thousand words, and some of them are really remarkable  -  for instance, cartoon cells from characters Price voiced for Disney studios and Miramax (The Great Mouse Detective and Arabian Knight) and Hanna-Barbera's The 13 Ghosts of Scooby Doo.  There are photos of him with famous seemingly unlikely latter-day admirers, like Alice Cooper.  Caricatures and print-ads abound, such as Price selling Tuaca liqueur and Emba minks.  Even his image on a long-forgotten Milton Bradley &quot;Shrunken Head Apple Sculpture&quot; kit is on display.<br />If you're a fan, or looking for a Christmas or birthday present for someone who is, you just couldn't beat the bargain of this book at twice the &quot;price&quot;!	2002-08-15
US	39614869	RWEJTNOUWZT1V	0345444078	129913782	Shadows over Innsmouth	Books	5	11	11	N	N	There's Always Been Something Fishy About Innsmouth...	...and it's all right here.<br />Lovecraft's own inspirational story, &quot;The Shadow Over Innsmouth&quot;  -  curiously, one of his own least favorite, but one of his best  -  leads off this terrific collection of clever spin-off tales by contemporary authors on the same theme:  namely, that there are isolated seaside places around the world where the inhabitants not only pray to, but interact with, ancient subaqueous demon-gods from other worlds.<br />Many of the tales are more or less sequels to Lovecraft's seminal story, set in and around Innsmouth itself, the fictional Massachusetts town the author first &quot;sailed&quot; the concept in.  Each of these reads very well as its own stand-alone piece, successful entirely independent of Lovecraft's story, but all the more entertaining for being one way or another connected to it.  Other tales, such as Ramsey Campbell's &quot;The Church In High Street,&quot; are set in other locations, like the decayed, dockside areas of Great Britain, where similar interbreeding with noxious hellspawned water-gods also is occurring.  One especially good story, Kim Newman's &quot;The Big Fish,&quot; actually reads like a credible direct sequel to Lovecraft's original, and is all the more perfect for essentially performing like a 1930s noir-horror film.  Even Neil Gaiman gets in on the act, with a skin-crawling little bit of nastiness about an Innsmouth descendant coming to terms with his gruesome genetic heritage.<br />One thing you can count on, in this collection:  something in it will definitely appeal to your Lovecraftian tastes  -  so long as that taste is for fish.	2002-08-11
US	39614869	R1UHCSXV3NZOK5	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Quintessential Lovecraft	If you're looking for the quintessential Lovecraft reader, this is it.  The only major story of the author's ouevre not present is &quot;At the Mountains of Madness,&quot; which can be found in many other collections.<br />Excepting that classic, here are all the rest of the author's best:  &quot;The Call of Cthulhu,&quot; the inaugural piece of Lovecraft's famous Mythos of the same name, in which artists and psychics around the world suffer precognitions of the apocalypse heralded by the revival of a long-sleeping ancient god; &quot;The Dunwich Horror&quot;  -  probably one of the most famous supernatural stories in literature  -  about the deformed, demon-born Wilbur Whateley, and his hellspawn invisible not-quite-twin brother; &quot;The Shadow Over Innsmouth,&quot; one of the most influential horror tales ever written (though the author himself strangely didn't think much of it), which depicts an isolated decaying seaside town devolving  -  or are they &quot;evolving&quot;?  -  into fish-creatures reminiscent of the ancient undersea demon they worship; &quot;The Colour Out Of Space,&quot; an extraterrestrial influence mutating the flora and fauna of Arkham, Massachusetts, into &quot;something other&quot;; &quot;The Haunter of the Dark,&quot; a sky-demon summoned by followers who couldn't control it, bringing a baleful influence down upon a cursed church and the town surrounding it; &quot;The Whisperer In Darkness,&quot; a clandestine invader from the outer reaches of the solar system which besieges and terrorizes a brilliant scientist on the outskirts of civilization; and &quot;The Shadow Out Of Time,&quot; Lovecraft's sci-fi classic about a man who finds himself time-sharing his own body with the time-traveling mind of an ancient extraterrestrial who imparts cosmic wisdom...and terrors.<br />Making this particular collection all the more commendable is the inclusion of almost all of Lovecraft's best short-shorts (minus only &quot;From Beyond&quot;):  &quot;The Rats In the Walls,&quot; &quot;The Music of Erich Zann,&quot; &quot;The Dreams In the Witch House,&quot; &quot;The Outsider&quot; and &quot;Pickman's Model.&quot;<br />This is the best single collection of Lovecraft available.  Don't miss out.	2002-08-11
US	39614869	RKIY11H6FR3LJ	0345422031	359626881	Cthulhu 2000	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Cthulhu Meets Computers	To my intense surprise and delight, Cthulhu 2000 proved to be a pretty good collection of highly diverse tales, a fair number of them good-humored send-ups that I was almost embarrassed to admit I found myself laughing with - my favorite being \\"Love's Eldritch Ichor,\\" a very funny piece about a descendant of the Old Ones and a book editor falling in love in a Lovecraftian mansion a la The Addams Family, which, believe it or not, is a lot better than it sounds.<br />But I was even more surprised at the collection of legitimate horror stories, some as genuinely creepy as anything Lovecraft ever penned himself. Not all the stories are strictly Lovecraftian by connection, but most are essentially true to his overriding theme of cosmic terror. Don't expect straight Lovecraft, and you might find yourself really loving this book. I did.	2002-08-11
US	39614869	R3SZ773ICD0RUV	0609603590	150247047	Natasha: The Biography of Natalie Wood	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Super-Trouper	Well-done if somewhat over-dramatized biography of one of the last of the true old Hollywood superstars.<br />Wood alternated between remarkably sensitive, empathetic performances, and coming off more like her adopted screen name, a bit stiff and wooden with an almost wind-up doll quality.  Finstad does a good job of illustrating why:  Wood's entire life was spent uncomfortably drifting between the rather easily won (though hard worked-for) glamourous stardom that was her pushy stage-mother's ambition for her to achieve, and the deep inner desire to be taken as a serious dramatic actress.  She lost her childhood to her mother's drive, rebelled awkwardly but dramatically in discovering (and sometimes exploiting) her sexuality  -  for which she paid at least one ugly price, in finding herself raped by a star-producer (who had been one of her childhood idols) when she was still an underage teenager  -  and in later life rebelled against even her own earlier rebellion by becoming something of a prude.<br />Finstad does an excellent job of covering Wood's child-star years, setting the stage for the very complex and rather fragile woman the actress was to become.  Her coverage is less fleshed-out in Wood's mature years, and it often seems that she is deliberately under-representing Wood's personal flaws, which played a large part in unwise decisions as she grew older.  She also does strangely very little follow-up on many of Wood's friends  -  such as Nick Adams, who played a significant role in the actress's life for a few years, even playing devil's-agent in assisting breakups of Wood's relationships that her mother or the studio didn't approve of  -  and then abruptly dropping them out of the narrative without even a single question as to why Wood continued such detrimental relationships in her life.<br />Similarly, Finstad has taken knocks for representing Robert Wagner in an unflattering light, though actually she doesn't  -  it's just that the biographer relates allegations presented her from some of Wood's close friends that Wagner does nothing to refute, other than to issue a single press-agent letter saying the allegations are not true.  Wagner refused to talk to Finstad  -  as he has to virtually everyone else, at least concerning the night of Wood's death  -  which cannot be held against Finstad.  I didn't find her to be unfair to the man, and in fact felt she was as sympathetic to him (and to Wood's surviving family) as she could be under the circumstances.<br />The book is well-structured and -written, and more in-depth than anything written about Wood to date.  I eagerly look forward to other biographers' work on Wood's life, as Finstad's biography can hardly be considered the last word on the subject and requires at least a \\"second opinion.\\"  Nevertheless, it is a moving portrait of Wood, and a thoughtful analysis and study of her substantial body of highly memorable work.	2002-08-08
US	39614869	RIGJ2U6G4MZ0F	0061053511	539572241	Dean Koontz: A Writer's Biography	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Koontz Lite	Disappointing when compared to Ramsland's excellent biography of Anne Rice (Prism of the Night), but definitely worthwhile.  This is an authorized biography  -  almost invariably a euphemism for \\"friendly and not too deep\\"  -  and as such comes off more as a hagiography.<br />Repeatedly, very interesting stories are given only a cursory glance before being discarded.  For instance, Koontz mentions a UFO/meteor encounter he had when very young that actually made the papers at the time, but this fascinating little tidbit is simply tossed-off in one short paragraph and then forgotten.  Similarly, Koontz's explanation for how he managed to defer his drafting in Vietnam makes no sense, and is glossed over in as short a space.  No mention at all is made of his writing government manuals in the mid-'70s, even though those manuals are still listed even here on Amazon, and surely there is an interesting story behind that.<br />However, the book's pluses easily outweigh its minuses.  There is no better book analyzing the author's works, insightfully and in quite some detail.  Koontz's difficult childhood with an alcoholic father is recounted in significant detail, and one comes away with new-found respect for the man in recognizing this unfortunate hurdle he had to overcome that might easily have stunted a less resilient individual beyond repair.  His savvy in the business of writing is excellently presented, making the book a useful study in that subject  -  and the author's stories are very nicely demonstrated reflecting the ups and downs in his alternately grim and rewarding life, to the point that this volume would make an excellent textbook for any college creative writing course.<br />Not that thorough or penetrating, but a valuable addition to anyone's bookshelf who is interested in Koontz's prolific body of work  -  or even just someone interested in the business of writing, and the creative process.	2002-08-03
US	39614869	R1Y5WWDT3PLU31	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	5	3	4	N	N	House of Hilarity	If Orson Welles produced the Blair Witch Project as directed by Stanley Kubrick and adapted from an H. P. Lovecraft story by Bertolt Brecht, the result would be House of Leaves. House of Leaves isn't a story - it's a madcap all-out assault on reason, performed in a maze of mirrors and viewed through a kaleidoscope.<br />This isn't a novel - it's an entertainment, par excellence. I'll be reading and re-reading it over and over again in succeeding years, no doubt exploring formerly undiscovered passageways in the leaves of Danielewski's book that will provoke greater and greater laughter for my having missed them on previous readings. I strongly suggest you do the same.	2002-08-02
US	39614869	R188VHWR1ATRPD	0375714413	73523566	Whalestoe Letters	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Madness In Miniature	The book is short, but it really keeps your attention.<br />Danielewski does a brilliant job of portraying a woman on, and over, the edge.  The first person authoress of the letters comprising Whalestoe's text is a mother in a madhouse, writing to her estranged son, John.  She seems a nice enough woman to begin with, if a bit dramatic and given to airs  -  what is she doing locked up in a loony-bin?<br />That, of course, is the story.  As the letters progress, the institutionalized woman's state of mind becomes more apparent, as does her history.  Eventually, it all spills out  -  and quite memorably, at that.<br />I'm especially impressed with this book for a personal reason, which is that I knew a woman with a near-identical history in what was then our local mental hospital, over thirty years ago.  Like the woman narrating Danilewski's book in her epistles, you wouldn't have had any idea there was anything wrong with her upon first meeting.  Once you got to know why she was locked up, it chilled you.  I was less than ten years old, and it made the blood drain from my face, even then.  But I couldn't help liking her and feeling sorry for her, at the same time.<br />And that is the real beauty of Danielewski's character portrayal:  the writer of the letters remains sympathetic, despite her past.  The reader feels genuine pity, once the reason for her incarceration is understood and its effects on her become evident.  She's a sometimes frightening woman, but very sad at the same time.  Her life has been spent in a sort of penance, and her letters to her son are sometimes heartwrenching.  In a number of words amounting only to a glorified novella, Danielewski convincingly tells an entire life story, and makes you feel it with surprising depth.<br />I haven't read the author's House of Leaves, but will now that I've read this remarkable tour de force of minimalist writing and psychological portraiture.	2002-07-28
US	39614869	R1V0QVIDC5KGJC	0345438167	139484558	Incubus (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Mulder and Scully In Monster-Haunted Maine	This is the best low-key, adult supernatural horror story since Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House, and is told in very much the same style.  The horrors it paints are initially presented in suspensefully suggestive backdrop, mounting gradually to a graphic and dramatic conclusion.<br />Narrator Cora Whitman is a pastor's wife in rural Dry Falls, Maine, which in 1974 suffers from a non-stop blighting heat-wave.  It also suffers from something more sinister:  an invisible menace that sexually molests sleeping women and maturing girls.  Cora is far more reluctant than her falteringly religious husband, and his paranormal-researching circle of friends, to accept that the reported nocturnal assaults are the work of some supernatural agent  -  until she becomes its target, herself.<br />Cora begins her story with Charles Fort's most famous quote  -  \\"I think we're property\\"  -  and an enumeration of paranormal events in our time and before our time, before walking us through her own voyage from skepticism to belief.  Her perspective enables the reader to witness events that could be nothing more than overactive imaginations or sexual frustration (all the women in Dry Falls are suffering from an epidemic lack of sexual interest from their husbands), but gradually become more indicative of supernatural intrusion:  one woman feels as if a masculine presence was in her room, but sees nothing; another senses a vague shadowy outline in the door, while suffering apparent sleep-paralysis; a third has chunks of flesh gouged out of her scalp, by nails sharper than she possesses, and is certain an unseen male figure was in her room.  Even after several girls from the nearby prep-school are found, in the same room and on the same night, sleeping as if drugged and sexually hyper-excreting while seeming to respond to bedpartners, Cora and the Dry Falls townsfolk manufacture rationalizations to account for the phenomenon.  Eventually, however, too many people witness events beyond any natural explanation, and Dry Falls becomes a town besieged by fear.<br />What makes this novel work is the understated, first-person approach.  Daily events are described in mundane fashion, with the odd occurrence here and there sandwiched in, mulled over for a moment, and then forgotten  -  until the next.  By the time Cora is convinced that outside entities have targeted Dry Falls, so is the reader.  She and her husband come off very much as a Scully and Mulder pair, the story itself feeling a great deal like a well-written episode of The X-Files.  In fact, the presentation of paranormal researchers and their techniques is spot-on accurate, and completely believable for it.  The tone and style have almost a documentary feel, and the illusion of reality is exceptionally well sustained.<br />The Reader's Guide/author's interview at the end of the book reveals that Arensberg was consciously drawing from lore of historical fairy abductions, demon hauntings, and contemporary reports of UFO entities in crafting her tale, and she presents them extremely realistically.  Literarily, she sought to emulate Nathaniel Hawthorne and Shirley Jackson, and she succeeds fabulously.<br />This is thinking-man's horror, for mature readers only.	2002-07-26
US	39614869	RZBMLO31RW4CE	0812579569	74115197	Domain (The Domain Trilogy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Clancy Does Zelazney Does Indiana Jones	In 2012, mental patient Mick Gabriel convinces new medical intern Dominique Vazquez that he is not the dangerous paranoid schizophrenic his doctor has labeled him as, but a genuine doomsday prophet with the key to saving the planet before rapidly developing cataclysmic events culminate in the world's end on the winter solstice.  Mick's deceased archaeologist father found the solution, and left a map for him to recover pertinent items before the crucial date.  Dominique wouldn't believe Mick, if not for the unapproachable whirlpool vortex in the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico that just opened and claimed her stepfather's life  -  as Mick predicted.  But now that she's helped him escape, she's become a target of the U.S. Secretary of State, Pierre Borgia, who had Mick illegally incarcerated and wants the both of them dead before they might damage his political career.  And Mick has to work fast  -  tensions between the U.S., Russia and China are at fever pitch, since bizarre thermonuclear devices originating from the Gulf of Mexico vortex have been detonating across the globe.  All sides blame their political opposites, none seeming to realize that the detonations are the work of a third party  -  an automated alien vessel whose crash was responsible for the death of the dinosaurs, and if Mayan prophecy holds true, for present day humanity as well...<br />This book is not without flaws, which is to be expected for the breadth of the canvas on which Alten is painting his story, but those flaws are negligible.  His prodigious research makes Domain a more than usually credible read, even if its well-crafted sci-fi does degenerate into more over-the-top fantasy before story's end.  The conclusion is incomplete, since Alten is setting up a sequel, and some of the character actions and transitions are questionable during the course of the plot.<br />But it's a terrific read, no matter how you look at it, strangely enhanced by the author's choice to write the narrative in present tense throughout, which gives the nail-biting action an added illusion of immediacy.  The suspense is gripping, and Alten's apparent knowledge of military systems and weapons nomenclature adds greatly to the believability.<br />Screams to be made into a movie.  But read it, instead.  It's a real kick.	2002-07-23
US	39614869	R3IDANZ6NLHW4P	0449006883	431556445	Magic Terror	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Magic Works  -  Sometimes	Peter Straub is the bestselling author who most suffers from brevity.  He requires a broad canvas and a generous amount of time, to really make a story click.  He also  -  like Anne Rice and Stephen King  -  seems utterly incapable of escaping his own literary world, constantly recycling characters and elements from his preceding novels into his newer works, which is interesting in its own way, but grows tiring after a time.  However, he is sufficiently versatile to pretty well guarantee at least one or two satisfying reads to any given reader, in any collection of his shorter pieces.  Straub is the closest living writer we have to an Edgar Allen Poe, and these stories reflect his talents well.<br />Three of the stories in Magic Terror expand on characters and plots already encountered in Straub's previous \\"Blue Rose\\" mystery novels, and two of them  -  \\"Bunny Is Good Bread\\" and \\"Porkpie Hat\\"  -  are quite good as stand-alones, on their own merits.  His crowning story, \\"Mr. Clubb and Mr. Cuff,\\" obviously owes a little something to Poe's \\"System of Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether,\\" and is less a horror story than an absurdist black comedy written by the Marquis de Sade.  My own personal favorites are a story told by a recently departed murderer about the crime that landed him on death row, and another relating a humorous series of bad turns taken between spies and hit-men  -  both, like \\"Clubb and Cuff,\\" twisted black comedies worthy of Edward Gorey or The Addams Family.<br />Definitely not the author's best, but still worthy of attention.	2002-07-23
US	39614869	R3DJV5HM8ZD9RO	0812516540	456720245	The Doll Who Ate His Mother	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Guess Who's Coming to Dinner	Clare Frayn was giving her brother a ride home, on the night someone ran in front of her car and caused the accident.  Her brother died instantly.  Funny thing was, they never found his arm.  Funnier than that  -  though Clare isn't laughing  -  is that the man who ran in front of her car seemed to be disappearing around a corner shortly after the accident, carrying something looking suspiciously like an arm...<br />A couple of months later, popular exploitative true-crime writer Edmund Hall contacts Clare for help in researching his latest book, \\"Satan's Cannibal,\\" about the man he is certain was responsible for Clare's brother's death.  When a young boy, Hall went to school in Clare's Liverpool neighborhood with a creepy kid named Christopher Kelly.  Kelly was a ghoul, who eagerly attacked and ate living small animals  -  and even badly scared the school bully, by nearly biting off his nose.<br />Clare and Edmund play amateur detective, with a few friends, to track Kelly down.  Of course, with that much attention coming his way, it can't be too long before Kelly turns the tables, and comes looking for them...<br />This was Ramsey Campbell's first novel, and it still reads quite well.  It's more a crime story than anything else, sort of an odd and eerie \\"day in the life\\" of an unsettled and unsettling shadow-crawler of a man.  Balancing the psychological and possible supernatural aspects is what makes Campbell's story so compelling  -  that, and his fascinating characterization of a truly bizarre criminal.<br />The book reads like a good episode of The Alfred Hitchcock Hour, and is surprisingly mature for this kind of material.  It may well have partly inspired Thomas Harris' more famous Hannibal Lecter novels, Red Dragon especially  -  though it isn't quite as good, just along similar lines.	2002-07-16
US	39614869	R1WBBML2FOZNK0	0312969031	442343154	Furnace	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gray Does Tourneur Does James	This book could be considered a sequel, of sorts, to Jacques Tourneur's famous horror film Curse of the Demon, which is based on M. R. James' classic story, \\"Casting the Runes.\\"  The plot is pretty well identical to Tourneur's creepy masterpiece, only updated and relocated from England to the hills of West Virginia.<br />Long-distance trucker Josh Spiller finds himself off the beaten track in an oddly affluent little mountain town called Furnace, where a woman cold-bloodedly pushes an infant in its stroller in front of his eighteen-wheeler.  The local constabulary are in no doubt it was an accident, but they don't believe his story about the woman pushing the baby  -  Spiller's description of her is that of their town benefactoress and councillor, Nelly McFarlane.<br />Stymied, Spiller leaves town and picks up a teenaged girl hitchhiker named Griffin, who is anxious to leave Furnace because she considers it a bad place, though she won't say precisely why.  Soon, Spiller notices diabolical phenomena following him around  -  sulfurous smells, evil apparitions, claw marks in his truck  -  and the discovery of an unidentified parchment in his wallet is fingered by Griffin as the cause.  Seems Furnace's financial prosperity is attached to a little old-fashioned witchcraft, and the runic parchment in Spiller's possession is a supernatural tracking device for a demonic assassin due to dismember Spiller before daybreak  -  that is, unless he can figure out exactly who slipped it to him, and can slip it back to them before the appointed hour...<br />This novel suffers badly from excess padding and a plot-point for plot-point lift from Tourneur  -  but it is quite well-written and enjoyable on its own merits, all the same.  Anyone who enjoys this book would be well advised to check out its inspirations  -  and the same goes vice-versa, for fans of Tourneur's movie and James' original story.	2002-07-16
US	39614869	R12H7AYJ0PEYRX	0446610968	23168003	Dark Inheritance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Go Ape!	Dark Inheritance is a wonderfully written and developed novel, with credible and likeable characters.  The Gears only write melodramas, and this is no exception  -  it's a given in their novels that the good guys will come out on top, and the bad guys will be hoist on one or another of their own petards.  Dark Inheritance reads better than their Native Americans series, though, probably because it plays with far more interesting topics.<br />The plot is a credible prequel to Planet of the Apes:  Smyth-Archer Chemists corporation in England has been tinkering with hybridizing ape and human DNA, resulting in twenty bonobo chimps with all but human brains.  These animals are cared for and monitored in differing human family environments, each caretaker of one of the bonobos kept largely unaware of the others.<br />Anthropology teacher Jim Dutton is one of the caretakers.  He has raised his female bonobo, Umber, since birth, alongside his own daughter, Brett.  Both \\"girls\\" now, at age thirteen, are virtually sisters, and Umber is an intelligent and communicative member of the family  -  which causes considerable distress when Smyth-Archer wants Umber back.<br />Dutton and his daughter compromise with the corporation by accompanying Umber to one of their research facilities in Africa, where they soon learn that Smyth-Archer's experiments have not all turned out as well as Umber.  A number of escaped chimpanzees from Compound D have been at large for some weeks.  Not only are they developing civilized building and toolmaking skills, but they even show evidence of spiritual awareness.  They're frighteningly organized.  And they're not exactly peaceful...<br />This is a terrifically involving and satisfying read, which examines fairly well the moral and ethical questions of DNA tinkering, evolution, the psycho-social similarities and differences between humans and simians, and compatibility of species, among other things.  It's intelligent, and engaging.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-07-14
US	39614869	R20QRRANHRB4WK	0425185176	738776514	Unidentified	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Weak Walk On the Quantum Dock	You know when you've read through 338 pages of a book, reached its end, and don't have the answer to a single question raised in its pages or even much of an idea what happened, that the book has serious problems.<br />Costello is capable of good work  -  I read his Beneath Still Waters over a decade ago, and thought it was pretty good  -  but you'd never guess it on the basis of his latest novel.<br />The thimbleful of plot isn't revealed until two thirds of the way through the story, which consists up to that point of nothing more than a lot of inexplicable (and unexplained) chase-and-murder activity by a party or parties unknown, all having something to do with a house that isn't a house  -  which may or may not have been initially built by some designer (no one seems quite sure)  -  that grows of its own accord, is not subject to the laws of physics, possibly spawns indescribable monsters (or else it's just some kind of doorway to them from who-knows-where-or-why, no one seems quite sure of that either), and has been cordoned and watched by a terrified British military since 1937.<br />Does any of that make sense to you?  It gets worse.<br />The indescribable monsters that may or may not be spawned by the house that may or may not have been built by human hands are irrevocably hostile to humanity for no reason even pondered, and send hit-men (er, -monsters?) to attack whoever finds out about them (even though they seem pretty well indestructible).  Or are the hit-men (-monsters) being sent by the government?  Or some private corporation?  Who are they?  What happened to them when the story was over?  The story was over, wasn't it  -  I mean, the book ended, it must have been, right?  What happened?  What were the monsters?  Where did they come from?  If they could pop-up just about anywhere in time and space, and are so hostile to us (and just why is that, anyway?), what reason was there for the military to waste its time watching the non-house whatever-it-was?And if they can pop-around like that, what good would it do for the military to watch their non-house?  And if they're that powerful, why do they have human allies?  Or were there human allies?  (The author said there were, but I didn't see any evidence of it  -  or any need, either.)<br />And why - ?  Oh, forget it.  My brain hurts.<br />Literally the only answer given for all the bizarre, utterly inexplicable goings-on throughout this plotless novel is the fantasist's new catch-phrase, \\"quantum physics.\\"  Gravity works when the author wants it to, and doesn't when he wishes it not to?  \\"Quantum physics.\\"  One person's wishes become reality, but another's don't?  \\"Quantum physics.\\"  All rules are subject to change at a whim, and without any explanation whatsoever?  \\"Quantum physics.\\"<br />One way or another, the good guys somehow wish the bad monsters away.  Your guess is as good as mine, as to how.  You might as well imagine your own ending, to this book.  And your own beginning.  Your own entire story.  Then, at least, you'd know what happened  -  and save yourself the cost of the book.	2002-07-11
US	39614869	R23UGGRIU5NCT7	0671024817	332301994	Wither	Books	5	3	4	N	N	School's Not Out for Summer  -  It's Out Forever	Three hundred years ago, three witches were hung in the college town of Windale, Massachusetts  -  not for any vague accusations of diabolical dealings, but for vicious murder.  Their leader was widow Elizabeth Wither, who incited her mini-coven of Rebbeca Cole and Sarah Hutchins to the violent crimes.  The town has made something of a small tourist cottage industry out of its witch heritage, in modern times.  Stores and streets bear the names of the three historical malefactors, and Windale yearly celebrates the coming of the Frost King (\\"Old Man Winter\\") on Halloween with a great deal of publicity.<br />But the town shows a willful collective ignorance of a curse it bears:  Windale has a higher infant mortality rate than any other town, and many of the babies that don't die are born deformed; a higher-than-usual number of college students annually disappear, or suffer accidents; cattle mutilations in the vicinity are inexplicably grislier than anywhere else in the country.<br />This year, Danfield College student Wendy Ward, her instructor Karen Glazer, and neighboring little girl Abby MacNeil will learn more about the Windale witches than they ever wanted to know.  Seems the historical femmes fatale were much more than homicidal housewives  -  in fact, they were more, even, than mere witches  -  and they have a three-centuries date with destiny with Wendy, Karen, and little Abby.<br />This is a really well-written novel, which reads something like a cross between The Omen and Peter Straub's Ghost Story.  The characters are likeable (if a little undeveloped), the plot suspenseful and steady, the horror good and gory, and the finale quite exciting.  The story is fairly original, even if the trappings are nothing new.  It has less to do with hauntings and hexes than with demonic entities, and its horror is not subtle at all.  By its conclusion, it's almost a war story on a small scale.  The novel suffers slightly from contrivance, but not enough to diminish its enjoyment.<br />In theory, Wither is being made into a movie (so the cover informs us), but I haven't heard any particulars about it.  I hope it's true, though.  It'd be a good one.	2002-07-11
US	39614869	R69PDYVOAT2YE	0743427602	533394641	The Wisdom of War (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Creature from the Sunnydale Lagoon	Christopher Golden is hit and miss, but when he hits, he hits big.<br />Sunnydale's beaches are cluttered with sea lions, seeking refuge from something disturbing their natural oceanic habitat.  The local fishing community, Docktown, is besieged by people transforming into homicidal fish-men, and numerous trawlers are coming back devoid of their crews.  Things are so bad, even the vampires have left town  -  all but Spike, who smells something fishily familiar in these goings-on from his centuries of world travels.<br />The Watcher's Council has sent representatives to Sunnydale, and so has one of its longstanding rival factions, the Order of Sages.  Buffy, who isn't feeling terribly cooperative toward the Council, is excluded from their investigation in favor of a more cooperative Slayer  -  Faith, who they spring from prison on special dispensation.<br />It isn't long before Buffy discovers that there isn't an aquatic menace at work  -  there are two.  A Lovecraftian civil war, of sorts, is in progress, and Sunnydale is caught in the middle of it.  Worse, the Watcher's Council knows more about it all than they're letting on, and their hidden agenda may well be the deciding factor in whether or not there is a world left for humanity to live on, after the Old Ones are through rocking and rolling over it.<br />Golden's plotting and pacing are perfect on this one.  He understands the characters extremely well, and does a fine job mixing them together.  Dawn is mostly in the background, and Spike's involvement is kept to what knowledge he can contribute toward dealing with the humanoids from the deep.  Quentin Travers, the manipulative Council bureaucrat responsible for many of the past woes of Buffy, Giles and Faith, has a part to play.  Several new and interesting  -  and hopefully recurring  -  peripheral characters are introduced.<br />Most rewarding is Golden's treatment of Faith, which is soul-searching and perceptive.  He manages to redeem the rogue Slayer, without losing credibility or becoming sappily sentimental.  Past problems she has with Buffy and her friends are not simply forgiven and forgotten, but believably worked through.<br />Lovecraft readers will enjoy this entry as much as Buffy fans.  Golden provides several clever in-joke references for that readership, all of which are subtle enough that those not into the Cthulhu Mythos will not notice or be bothered by them.<br />This is not only Golden's best title in the series, but one of the best titles in the series, period.  It's just a big, beautiful, sprawling, end-of-the-world Buffy epic.<br />Go fish!	2002-07-05
US	39614869	RB7BRNZM02S8T	0786011327	394836024	Moonfall	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Creatures Of Habit	Strange accidents and the odd suicide are not that uncommon in the idyllic little Southern California mountain town of Moonfall.  Every quarter century, they even come in pairs.  Funny thing, though  -  no one's ever that clear on the particulars concerning them.  It's almost as if their memories are partially blocked.  And the official records don't always jibe with what people do remember.  The deaths always seem to occur around St. Gertrude's School for Girls, that creepy place with the gargoyles on its ramparts.  Oh, but surely a bunch of nuns couldn't have anything to do with murder  -  now, could they?<br />This is a nice, simple, straightforward little horror story, made all the livelier by Tamara Thorne's likeable and believable characters and her usual wicked sense of perverse humor.  The plot is nothing you haven't seen before, it's just very well done.  It has witches and warlocks, secrets and sacrifices, devils and demons, horrors and hypnosis, and perverse nuns in shocking undergarments.<br />What's not to love?<br />The only problem with this book is that its ending is a bit abrupt and anticlimactic for such a well-sustained buildup, but it's quite good in spite of that.  Thorne always writes well.  Even her villains are entertaining  -  those in Moonfall, especially.  I recommend all of her books, without hesitation.	2002-07-05
US	39614869	R1120AYCPOJ0JH	0786010908	550785290	Haunted	Books	4	11	11	N	N	When You Do That Voodoo That You Do So Well!	Bestselling horror writer/amateur parapsychologist David Masters and his teenage daughter, Amber, move for the summer into California's notorious \\"Body House,\\" the site of two horrendous massacres and the occasional odd death over the past eighty years.  Masters is setting his latest novel in such a place, and wants the atmosphere of the infamous house for inspiration and publicity.<br />The gossipy locals consider him a fool, and after a while he has to wonder if they're right  -  the house is haunted by its owner, Lizzie Baudey, a turn of the century madame, and her evil daughter Christabel, who was raised in absentia by a voodoo priest who taught her the black arts.  Lizzie's former lover, a sea captain, also wanders about the deserted lighthouse at odd hours, minus his head.<br />Things start out well enough, with only the occasional bothersome cold spot around, but then Amber finds two of Christabel's legendary missing dolls, and all hell starts breaking loose...<br />Another well-written winner by the inexplicably all-but-unknown Ms. Thorne, which benefits most from her usual sympathetic and enjoyable characters.  Its only real problem is the precise nature of the haunting, which now and then is a little confusing, and a bit of a slow start.  But the suspense is steady, the horror pretty gory, and the finale scary and exciting.  Haunted is not a classic in the sense of Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House, Matheson's Hell House or King's The Shining, but that's only because of its more formulaically dramatic streamlining.  It is, however, only about one rung beneath those famous pieces, and certainly will satisfy ghost story or haunted house lovers.<br />Thorne is an author to watch.	2002-06-30
US	39614869	R39CONXCVPURQM	0786013117	267462996	Candle Bay	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Don Vampire di Corleone	This story draws on so many disparate elements that it shouldn't work at all, but it does, and quite well.<br />Fresh-faced Amanda goes to work as San Francisco's Candle Bay hotel concierge, straight out of college.  She's a lover of horror stories, but is completely oblivious to the fact that her employers, the Darling family, are an old vampire clan, and the Darlings do everything in their hypnotic power to keep her unaware.  The Darlings have an ongoing gang-war with another vampire family, the Dantes, and are presently hosting one of the original trueborn vampire race  -  an extreme rarity, in the world  -  Julian Valentyne.<br />Julian comes bearing a gift:  a precious, hitherto believed to be mythical elixir, that prolongs even vampire longevity and heals humans more quickly than usual, which is a valuable commodity to vampires whose hotel business is a front for a revolving food supply  -  the Darlings feed (lightly) on their sleeping guests, hypnotically erasing their memories of the nocturnal encounter, and being able to eliminate the wounds on their meals' throats before morning helps.<br />Julian is hardly an altruist, however.  He has ulterior motives.  He seeks a fabled treasure beneath the Darlings' hotel.  Toward keeping his benefactor host family confused as to his true intentions, he turns them into drug addicts, exacerbates tensions between them and the Dantes, and works his charms on Amanda  -  who is the reincarnation of his sole human love, from Atlantis  -  to win her away from the attentions of Stephen Darling.<br />It may even be of importance for Julian to succeed in finding the treasure, despite his horrendous tactics  -  if he doesn't, both the human and vampire races may soon find themselves extinct.<br />This book succeeds on pure style and panache.  It reads not like a horror novel, but like an epic black comedy  -  a good portion of the early part of the story is spent chasing the body of a murdered guest in a laundry cart, in true 1930s Hollywood comedy form.  The dialogue is snappy, the characters credibly handled.  Stephen and Amanda are the straightforward star-crossed lovers; sexy Barbara Steele-ish vamp Natasha is the hotel's CEO; Uncle Ori is obsessed with The Godfather, playing the soundtrack at family meetings; brother Ivor is a strong, silent brooder and thinker; and the psychopathic (but oddly charming) pre-teenage twins, Ivy and Lucy, are Wednesday and Pugsley Addams as serial killers.<br />This book is a lot of fun.  It reads like a better-plotted Queen of the Damned, with more humorously likeable characters.  Its only real flaws are a too-abrupt ending and a curious lack of developmental attention to human heroine Amanda.  But the Darling family are delightfully demented and well-drawn, and the lengthy story moves at a pretty good clip.<br />Pass the AB-negative.  Cheers!	2002-06-17
US	39614869	R23C658UYS2JQR	0786015039	680292351	The Red Church	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Rusty Red	Mad Southern preacher Wendell McFall painted the town church red back during the Civil War, in anticipation of the birth of the Second Son of Christ, who he believed would bring death to the world as a gift.  To get the Second Son's ball rolling, old Wendell sacrificed a parishioner's child at the altar, and got himself lynched by the townsfolk as a result.  The red church has been haunted ever since, both by McFall's ghost and some demonic shadow in the bell tower.<br />Now, Archer McFall, Wendell's descendant, has come home to roost.  He, too, is a preacher, with a television following and a lot of money behind him, back from California to restore the church to its former infamous glory.  Archer has numerous acolytes still living in town, and even a former mistress or two  -  women willing to give up their own sons, as Wendell did almost a hundred and fifty years ago.  And the local constabulary is concerned, because Archer's return to town has brought with it a series of mutilation murders  -  caused, apparently, by something neither animal nor human.<br />This book sounds better than it is, but it still isn't bad.  It's a first novel, and suffers from typical first novel flaws.  Character actions and transitions are sometimes abrupt and not always clearly understood.  The plot needs more development than it is given.  The nature of the red church's supernatural menace is inconsistent and confusing.  Too much time is spent debating the nature of Christian beliefs, at the expense of plot and story development, and there is unnecessary padding.<br />However, overall it's a pretty good read, if lightweight.  It reads a great deal less like Lovecraft (which it has inappropriately been compared to) than a cross between Peter Straub's Ghost Story and the movie The Howling, though it is not as good as either of those pieces.  It manages a few chills, even if its surprises are sprung too early.<br />For a first novel, pretty good.  A pleasant way to pass the time, if you're looking for a simple, straightforward little horror story with a rural setting.  But I expect the author's next book will probably be better.	2002-06-13
US	39614869	R2GDRP5DF88PC2	0812539303	956116978	Nazareth Hill	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ghoulies and Ghosties and Long-Legged Beasties...	...and things that go bump in the mind...<br />Fifteen year old Amy had a scare at the old building called Nazareth Hill, ten years ago.  So did her devoutly religious insurance salesman dad, who was with her at the time.  He is intensely arachnophobic, and thought he saw some kind of big spider.  She saw something worse  -  something so bad, she blocked it from her memory until now.<br />Having remembered, Amy goes on a radio show to relate her ghost story about Nazareth Hill, now an apartment complex where she and her widowed dad live, and ticks-off a lot of people who are afraid of her scaring-down the rent.  Some of them believe her, though.  Because they've seen things, too.  And those people are just up and leaving all of a sudden, turning Nazareth Hill into something of a ghost town.<br />Amy's dad is staying, though.  So is Amy, because she's got no choice.  She's doing research into the Nazareth Hill area, and finding its history as an insane asylum  -  and some sort of witches' coven spot.  Her father doesn't like it.  He's going quietly insane.  All he wants is to shut her up  -  and he's getting less picky about how.  Especially with all those spiders creeping around in the dark, making it harder for him to relax...<br />This is a really great haunted house/ghost story, more akin to Stephen King's The Shining than anything else, only generally much, much more subtle.  Nazareth Hill is a place festering with evil spirits, scampering about all but unseen, glimpsed just sufficiently out of the corner of one's eye to drive people mad.  It's a psychological horror story as well as a supernatural one, and succeeds on both levels.  It has a pervasive feel of menace and doom about it, and many genuinely creepy moments.<br />Campbell has written several good horror novels, but this is his best to date.  Not for the squeamish.	2002-06-09
US	39614869	R12HO1SRJI8RFG	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Ragnarok Around the Clock Tonight!	Shadow is released after three years of his assault sentence for good behavior, only to find his wife and best friend died in the same car accident immediately before his release.  His friend's widow tells Shadow that the two of them were engaged in flagrante delicto, at the time.  Shadow can't ponder his losses, however, because an enigmatic con-man named Mr. Wednesday has hired him to be his personal driver and bodyguard on an unstated mission for an unstated duration.  It isn't long before Shadow is surrounded by former gods now down on their luck, who Mr. Wednesday is busy recruiting for an all-out final showdown with the new gods who supplanted them  -  the gods of Media, Fast Food, Shopping Malls, Computers, and the like.  Shadow's dead wife keeps coming back to him, gradually looking and smelling less pleasant, and he gets abducted and beat-up a lot by Men In Black with names like &quot;Mr. Wood&quot; and &quot;Mr. Stone,&quot; who are out to vanquish Wednesday.<br />If any of this sounds intriguing or amusing, then this is the book for you, because technically, that's about all that happens in this novel.  It has a story with a reasonable conclusion, but  -  like Lord of the Rings  -  its destination is the journey itself, and it never really arrives anywhere.<br />What this book is, essentially, is a Jack Kerouac road trip across America, filled with bizarre characters, humorous perceptions and anecdotal stories.  It has less of a plot than a point, and as such is pretty much a one-joke show with variations on a central theme.  The characters are entertaining, but pretty superficial.<br />But, most importantly, it's just plain fun.  It tells numerous funny stories and jokes, with the familiarity of an old friend.  It isn't really deep at all, despite appearances to the contrary, though it might sufficiently lull you with laughter to accidentally slip an interesting idea or two into your head for later mulling-over.<br />Most recommended for travelers  -  especially those undertaking a long road trip.pecially those undertaking a long road trip.	2002-06-01
US	39614869	R32012FTR3WFIC	157989030X	996155499	1: The Portable Dawn	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inspirational Beauty	This fabulous little booklet is exactly what Dawn fans have been seeking, without realizing it.  Probably the majority of Dawn readers are more akin to art collectors  -  and not necessarily comic book art collectors, at that.  While Linsner's most famous creation certainly appeals to the comic art crowd, she also is a masterpiece of erotic pinup work, and simply of beautiful figure and facial art in general.<br />Until now, Dawn fans have had to scour used comic bins and internet sites just to find their favorite individual drawings and paintings.  Linsner must have realized that, and made the job easier by putting all his best-known illustrations of Dawn into a single compact volume.  It's a pocket-sized book, but crammed full of its subject, and that's all any Dawn fan wants.<br />For those who want a little more detail as to exactly which illustrations are to be found, the answer is Dawn's most famous cover poses, numerous panels from Lucifer's Halo, and quite a few stand-alone one-shots, including those that (until now) were found only in Linsner's sketchbooks ...<br />There's no real text here, just lots and lots of everyone's favorite enigmatic redheaded goddess with the Veronica Lake hairdo.  And if you're looking up this title, that's all you really wanted to know.<br />So, enjoy!	2002-05-31
US	39614869	RAFOOWVT5FKVJ	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	3	14	17	N	N	What Is "It"?	It's greatest curse is its length  -  the thing is worse than the Energizer Bunny, it just keeps going, and going, and going  -  and an ill-defined villain.  It also suffers from unbelievable (though admittedly appealing) characters, and stock King situations.<br />The villainous \\"It\\" of the title is a God-Knows-What  -  an unexplained shapeshifting Something  -  that is inconsistent and incomprehensible, making it hard for the reader to get a handle on.  Its limitations are unclear, so the hapless band of heroes' eventual dispatch of the thing doesn't make much sense...or if it does, that sense isn't explained sufficiently for the reader to understand.<br />In common with some of Dean Koontz's less believable efforts, King's characters in this piece suffer from Cinderella Syndrome  -  i.e., just how many people from one small, backward town can grow up to become nationally rich and famous?  One is a famous author, another a stand-up comedian who regularly appears on The Tonight Show, etc.  These kind of characters are manipulatively contrived to appeal to a Yuppie audience, and even they should have a hard time believing them.<br />Despite these drawbacks, It is at least a good read.  The horror goes way over-the-top, far worse even than most of the author's efforts, but there are many very well-written individual scenes.  The characters are likeable and fully drawn, which goes a long way toward burying the book's other sins.  The plot is lengthy and involving, spanning generations, and as usual King's attention to detail is pretty thorough.<br />Not the author's best, and not the best piece of his to start out on if you're a new reader.  But worthwhile if you're a fan, or just want to kill a lot of time in fairly enjoyable fashion.  (A LOT of time.)  The miniseries, if you're interested, is a faithful adaptation.	2002-05-29
US	39614869	R32MUDMTKXF4O1	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	How I Spent My Summer Vacation  -  and Saved the World!	Bobbi Andersen stumbles on a buried piece of metal in the woods near her home in Haven, Maine, and does what any curious, red-blooded American woman would do  -  starts digging it out.  Her old flame Gard, a burned-out alcoholic poet drowning his memories of accidentally shooting his wife, shows up in town about the same time, but fails to share Bobbi's enthusiasm in digging out whatever bizarre relic is down under all that dirt.  Whatever it is, it makes the metal plate in his head hurt.<br />Bobbi isn't alone in her new pet project, however.  Several of the local townsfolk begin sharing new psychic powers and expanded creativity with her, as a result of the buried object's emanations.  It doesn't take them long to realize what Bobbi has found is a millennia-old crashed flying saucer, which piques their interest all the more.<br />Problem is, the thing's existence is sharply dividing the town.  The gifted few begin physically as well as psychically mutating, and after a while begin looking on the unaffected as backward country yokels.  Oh, well  -  maybe they could still serve in some way...as slave-labor, or even human battery cells, maybe.<br />In the end, as Haven becomes an insulated, alien-infested battle zone, it falls on one immune alcoholic burnout to find a way to save the world...<br />This is King at his best.  It took him five years to write this epic, and the time and care show.  He develops a great number of characters very fully, and manages to make even the progressively more heinous ones sympathetic, which adds to the fascination of the plot.  The novel is better structured than most of King's works, with a more even dramatic flow leading to a satisfying payoff.  And, for once, he doesn't belabor the epilogue  -  it plays no longer or shorter than it should.  The suspense is steady and gripping, the dramatic revelations spaced properly for full shocking impact.<br />What works best in this book is King's counterpointing of Gard's alcoholism with the \\"drug\\" of the alien influence spreading across Haven.  Bobbi's gradual disintegration is both terrifying and sadly pathetic, and Gard's equivalent struggle toward salvation  -  not only his own, but Bobbi's and the world's as well  -  is the more heroic, by contrast.<br />A definite must for King fans, or sci-fi/horror fans in general.  Those who love a great sweeping, epic melodrama will enjoy it, as well.  The miniseries, though different in some regards, is also quite good.	2002-05-29
US	39614869	RW3VHX16ONC2L	044900192X	194390518	The Blackstone Chronicles: The Serial Thriller Complete in One Volume	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Am I Crazy, Or Is It Just Me?	The affluent little town of Blackstone appears to be under some kind of curse.  For decades, the asylum on the hill was the town's most notable feature, and most everyone alive today either had family members who worked for it or were hospitalized in it.  Now, it's being converted into mall space.  That is, if it doesn't kill everyone involved in getting rid of it, first  -  because the town's movers and shakers are being left unique gifts, each of which brings a horrific accident or suicide along with it.  And those gifts are being sent by someone at the asylum  -  which has stood empty for many years.<br />This was originally a serialized novel in six parts, and compiling the whole into one volume would better have been served by removing the necessary redundancies that format required to keep new readers up to date on the action of preceding chapters, but it's less annoying than it easily could have been.  It's packaged like a supernatural horror story  -  and to a certain extent, it is  -  but it's really an epic murder mystery, spanning generations.  It has some of the flavor of The Omen movies and the Friday the 13th T.V. series, with its \\"cursed objects\\" and portentous sins-of-the-father dooms visited on the sons, but these are more the bouquet of the wine than the vintage itself.  Jaded readers will figure out the mystery well before the final revelation, but it's still cleverly done and a worthy read.<br />After Saul's first novel twenty-five years ago, Suffer the Children, I vowed I'd never read him again  -  that book was an endless parade of sadisms against children, with no socially redeeming value that I could discern  -  but happily a friend prevailed upon me to undertake The Blackstone Chronicles, which largely redeems the author in my eyes.  It has some grisly moments, yes  -  it is a horror story, after all  -  but at least any nastiness in its pages has a rhyme and reason behind it, and even a sick kind of poetry.	2002-05-26
US	39614869	R2D3XI9LL6ZHOB	0345366239	16404674	The Eight	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Globe-Hopping, Time-Tripping Adventure	Those who want to read a good erudite historical novel, but find Thomas Pynchon obscure and unfocused and Umberto Eco empty and pretentious, will probably enjoy Katharine Neville's The Eight.  This novel is not unlike a flip-side version of Eco's Foucault's Pendulum  -  Eco's novel surveys conspiracy history and comes up empty, and Neville's finds a conspiratorial agenda lurking behind nearly every major political figure in nearly every era.<br />The plot concerns a woman executive named Cat who finds herself on an unlikely treasure hunt around the world for all the pieces of Charlemagne's chessboard, which, when assembled at one time in one place, will  -  in theory  -  give its possessor world dominion.  Needless to say, Cat isn't the only party in search of the board, and actually isn't sure precisely for whom she is working, herself.  Her path crosses that of mystics and secret brotherhoods, puffers and adepts, politicians and gansters, and every other potential interested party in-between.<br />It isn't perfect.  It goes on far too long, and plugs so many famous historical events into its overarching conspiracy story that Oliver Stone would have trouble keeping up.  Possible past lives and numerous speculations on behind-the-scenes history abound.  But it's a terrific read, and provides a great deal of food for thought.  It also tells a coherent story, however intricate and convoluted.  Anyone into occult history will have a field day with it, as will those who are fond of adventure and spy novels.	2002-05-25
US	39614869	R368GW0L6PDWM3	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Still King's Best, After All These Years	King has written several fine novels, but The Shining is really his masterpiece.<br />Jack Torrance is the quintessential screw-up.  He just can't seem to get anything in his life on track  -  ever since he broke his infant son's arm, while on one of his many alcoholic benders.  Jack can't hold a job, what with the booze and his unmanageable temper.  And with all these problems, Jack can't concentrate sufficiently to write the play he's wanted to write for years.<br />Colorado's historic Overlook Hotel gives him just the chance he needs to redeem himself.  The hotel needs a caretaker through the winter months.  Jack could use the privacy for his writing, his wife Wendy looks forward to the cozy surroundings, and his son Danny has more than enough room to play in.  Neither Jack nor his family are concerned about the rumors that the Overlook is haunted  -  or that the former caretaker, Mr. Grady, went mad and bashed his wife and children to death with a roque mallet.<br />No, they're not concerned  -  but they should be.  Because little Danny has an unusual psychic power, a special \\"shine\\" to him.  The kind of power that could manifest the Overlook's many violently-demised ghosts back into the world, to wreak even more mayhem than they did when they were alive, if they could just kill Danny so they could use it.  But with someone as emotionally unstable as Jack spending the winter with them, the disturbed spirits have hands to make that job just a little bit easier...<br />The only flaw with this great novel is an occasional tendency to go over-the-top, but King does that far less here than in most of his other books, and not sufficiently for it to become a nuisance.  His writing is in peak form, and these are among the best and most realistic characters he's ever written.  The plot and the suspense never flag, building relentlessly.<br />There are fewer than a handful of great ghost stories written in this century, but this is one of them.  If you've never read a King book in your life, but want to see what all the hoopla is about him, this is the one you want to read.  Don't miss it.  And don't assume it's at all like the Stanley Kubrick movie, because they're worlds apart.	2002-05-25
US	39614869	R3DH24JM16OCZY	0345438671	938889630	If You Could See Me Now	Books	5	28	30	N	N	"If You Forget, God Help You..."	Thirteen year old Miles Teagarden and his one year older racy cousin, Alison Greening, went skinny-dipping in the quarry in Arden, Wisconsin, and made a pact to reunite twenty years in the future.  Only Miles left the quarry alive.  He doesn't remember what happened, but Alison drowned and everyone blamed him for it  -  though, hypocritical prudes that the townsfolk were, they felt the girl had it coming.<br />Now, twenty years later, Miles has returned to honor the pact.  With his return comes a shocking wave of serial murders and abductions  -  all of young girls of Alison's age and appearance.  Suspicion falls upon him, and Miles has a knack for making it all worse.  He's ruffling a lot of feathers, figuring out what really happened to Alison all those years ago.  And before long, he's got much bigger worries than being the prime suspect in the most horrific crimes Arden has ever seen  -  because it seems someone is trying to kill him...<br />This is a flawed novel, but it's a great flawed novel.  Written between his debut book, Julia, and his most popular work, Ghost Story, Straub's If You Could See Me Now is a bridge between his supernatural horror fiction and his later Blue Rose murder mystery trilogy.  The suspense in this book is superior, never letting up and continually adding new surprises in plot development.<br />The book is thematically rich, and could easily become the subject of any number of contemporary literature research papers.  It is mostly a murder mystery, and a well-written one at that.  The supernatural element in the story is ill-explained and seems somewhat inconsistent, yet it works.  Alison's motivations are not understandable, though in large part Straub seems to have intended her character to be enigmatic  -  her name, and her method of manifestation, suggest a change in her akin to becoming some sort of perverse nature elemental.<br />If you like suspense  -  supernatural, or more mundane crime melodrama  -  this is the book for you.	2002-05-23
US	39614869	R1HXLOZTYH2F47	0451162145	603909342	Koko	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Deer Hunter Redux	The first of Straub's \\"Blue Rose\\" murder mysteries, and my least favorite, though it is - like all Straub's novels - very well written. Koko is often reminiscent of The Deer Hunter, a film I frankly didn't care for at all, and is all about the Viet Nam war, which I care for even less. The book is far too long for the simple serial killer story it is, and isn't terribly involving if you're not into the military or Viet Nam.<br />I liked Straub's other \\"Blue Rose\\" books, but this one took me years to finish and I wasn't glad I did - in fact, I didn't read another Straub book for years, afterward - however, if you're into Viet Nam or military matters, you might enjoy Koko a great deal.	2002-05-23
US	39614869	RR65AM2CUA6NI	0451179188	600726954	The Throat (Blue Rose, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Quite A Climb, But Worth the View	The last, longest, and best of Straub's \\"Blue Rose\\" murder mysteries is also the most involving read, wrapping up all that has come before, and then some.  The three books might almost be looked upon as single acts in an overarching drama, and appropriately, the last act finishes up the grandest.<br />Of the three books, The Throat is the one probably most accessible to the average reader as a stand-alone.  The characters are rich, the plot clever (if a bit contrived at times), and  -  as always  -  Straub's writing is superior.<br />Be warned, however, it is very, very long.  Straub could write many of his novels just as well at shorter length, this one included, but for whatever reason has a tendency to really run with the written word.  Fortunately, he is one of the best writers around, and every sentence is a sheer joy to devour.<br />If you want a literary feast, The Throat will satisfy.  If you'd prefer a nice hors d'ouevre, you'll choke on it.	2002-05-23
US	39614869	R7XVWWA4UXGSO	0345415000	715760640	The Hellfire Club	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Once Upon a Time, There Was a Story With All the Answers...	...and someone was willing to kill, to keep them unknown.<br />When women start dropping dead in Nora Chancel's wealthy neighborhood, she eventually is suspected of having something to do with it.  She's barely under arrest, however, when someone with a worse rap-sheet than she could ever hope to achieve (even if she was guilty, which she isn't) abducts her at gunpoint to make his own escape from the police station.  Her abductor, a charming, handsome cad named Dick Dart, is a truly despicable fellow for whom no depravity is too low, and Nora has a nasty time ahead of her...<br />This is probably Straub's most unpleasant book, though it is quite good.  As usual, it wears out its welcome by going on far too long, and it suffers slightly from dramatic contrivance which weakens its more than usually shaky credibility.  The worst thing about it is the skin-crawlingly voyeuristic time Nora is forced to spend with Dart  -  put simply, Straub writes a very realistic rape scene.  The action is steady and interesting, and the plot is the least convoluted Straub has written.  The whole thing is pretty straightforward.<br />A typically strong, satisfying Straub read, but be forewarned that it is gruesomely descriptive.	2002-05-22
US	39614869	R3487HD4DR8KV0	0449149900	639054554	Mr. X	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Poe Meets H. P. Lovecraft, By Way Of The Addams Family	The Peter Straub acid test  -  you'll either love it, or hate it.<br />Ned Dunstan comes from a very peculiar family.  Some of them see things that haven't yet happened.  Others can teleport.  Or, apparently, be in more than one place at a time.  Their offspring are  -  well, sometimes not quite right.  Occasionally they have to be buried out in the Back Forty.  Ned has been haunted by an &quot;Other&quot; since his childhood, some shadowy figure who seeks him and those around him out to do grievous harm.  And he seems to have a twin, who his mother never told him about...or does he?<br />Along with Ghost Story, this is Straub's best-written and most carefully plotted book.  Also like Ghost Story, it requires tremendous patience to read.  Straub writes like a Chinese puzzle box, and in highly convoluted form, presenting bits and pieces of his story in altered time frames and from different perspectives.  His plot is half Poe's &quot;William Wilson,&quot; half Lovecraft's &quot;The Dunwich Horror.&quot;  It is more sci-fi or fantasy than true horror, and in fact the award it won was the World Fantasy Award, which is most appropriate.  It's tricky and clever, but really satisfies in the end if you simply pay attention.<br />Won't be everyone's cup of tea, but this description should help you decide whether or not it will be yours.	2002-05-22
US	39614869	R11R080197Z6CY	0671042599	245450928	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: The Monster Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding Pop-Culture Reference Guide	You don't have to be a fan of the T.V. series to find this book fascinating.  What it really excels at is discussing the history of horror literature and cinema, tracing the origins and evolution of each variety of \\"monster\\" from popular folklore to its present-day incarnations.<br />Every major variety of monster  -  and a few subvarieties  -  are covered, from the classic vampires and werewolves and ghosts to more everyday human criminals, and everything imaginable in-between.<br />Film and literature students will find it even more invaluable a reference than fans of the popular series  -  I know I do, and I've written books of the type (Hollywood Vs. the Aliens).	2002-05-22
US	39614869	RUTUQA7PAYVDV	0451168690	662615077	Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Shadow Knows!	Of Straub's \\"Blue Rose\\" murder mystery trilogy, this middle entry is probably my favorite, though The Throat is his best.  It has a weak start and takes a while to warm up, but once it does it reads very well.<br />What makes this one work is the characters, especially amateur sleuth Tom Pasmore and his mentor, Lamont Von Heilitz, an elderly Sherlock Holmes who is presented as the original model for Lamont Cranston, radio's \\"The Shadow.\\"  The girlfriend Pasmore picks up along the way livens things up considerably, as well.<br />Something prevalent in all Straub's work, and especially so here, is status consciousness and the American caste system of money.  Pasmore is from the wrong side of the tracks  -  i.e., \\"not rich\\"  -  and manages to get himself sleuthing around the upper crust, to the resentment of imminently less noble characters with larger bank accounts and trust funds.  Straub has a true detective's sense of crime and its motivations  -  namely, sex and money  -  and he presents them very credibly.  More importantly, he convincingly portrays the strata of corruption that money breeds, and the way it maintains itself.<br />This is a very strong, typically well-plotted Straub story, whose flaws are a rather slow start and too great a length.  The story is standard murder mystery fare  -  it's the characters and the style in which it is told that make it worthwhile.	2002-05-22
US	39614869	RBXB3AA3JOR9U	0425097250	336128915	Floating Dragon	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Floating Plotline	Peter Straub has never written a bad book, only better and worse ones. This is probably his worst, but it's still readable and has a few things going for it.<br />The plot is confused. The \\"Floating Dragon\\" is - perhaps - partly supernatural, though primarily it is explained as a leaked Department of Defense gas, that drives people insane and eventually liquefies their bodies. While losing their minds, the unfortunate victims hallucinate - hence, the possibility that what is being perceived as a recurring supernatural evil is all in the mind of the beholder.<br />I really disliked this book when I first read it, but I decided it required a re-read in later years after overcoming my initial disappointment. It was much better than I remembered it, but its flaws still gravely weaken it. Really, it's all quite good until the last seventy-five pages or so, when the action becomes completely hallucinogenic and virtually impossible to follow, and the ending is terribly trite to the point of being laughable. Straub's worst trait is a tendency to go way over-the-top, and that is at its worst here. But his characters, as usual, are quite memorable, and his writing in every other regard in typically splendid form.<br />If you're a Straub fan, this one may or may not put you off him. If this is your first exposure to the author, pick a different title, something like Ghost Story or If You Could See Me Now, to get a better feel for Straub closer to the top of his game.	2002-05-22
US	39614869	R21UCOQYLYE5PV	0671024337	330666577	Buffy, the Vampire Slayer : the Watcher's Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Your Guide to the Hot Spots On the Hellmouth	For the uninitiated, you can't do better than picking up this book if you want to start orienting yourself in the Buffyverse from the beginning.  The first two seasons established the characters and basic situations, and then turned many of them on their ear, making a Guide nigh well indispensable if you find yourself jumping into the middle of it all without a little background, first.<br />This is a very entertaining book, even if you've never seen the show  -  and if you haven't, it's sure to interest you in watching.  Its layout is quite catchy, spotlighting episode elements in an engaging manner.  Alongside story synopses are highlights of each episode's best lines, production notes, and comments on things that were added or cut, and why.  A random thumb-through will provide enough witty banter to tickle your funny-bone, no matter your mood.  (The characters were at their freshest and funniest in the first two years, which is what this Guide covers.)<br />Newbies are sure to be entertained and intrigued, fans can relive their favorite moments.  What's not to love?	2002-05-22
US	39614869	R37G5EEILXHIP4	0671042602	623376167	Buffy: The Watcher's Guide, Vol. 2	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Seasons Three and Four, and a Lot More Besides	Every bit as good as the first Guide, with a lot more extras.<br />Anyone new to the show will definitely find both Guides invaluable, as the series has more ongoing plot twists and character changes than a soap opera, and without a Guide to start you off, you could easily become lost  -  or worse, discouraged  -  and that would be a pity, because then you'd be missing out on one of the best shows on television.<br />Not only does this volume thoroughly explain the Season Three and Four changes in Sunnydale, from demon mayor Richard Wilkins III and his partners in diabolical crime (like vampire fix-it man Mr. Trick, and Faith, the fallen Slayer) to the subterranean military experimental labs beneath the local university (and the nightmares there concocted, such as the seemingly indestructible Frankensteinian creature, \\"Adam\\"), but it also provides quite a few interviews with the primary and secondary cast members and production crew.<br />And for the more mundane, there are a ton of great pictures.<br />Whether you're looking for a roadmap of changes in the Buffyverse world of Sunnydale, or simply an album of its high school and college population for your own enjoyment, you can't go wrong with this fabulous Guide  -  or its equally fabulous predecessor.	2002-05-22
US	39614869	R2SFHL9XVZU0GZ	0312982712	560576811	Abandon	Books	3	1	1	N	N	So-So Poe	This is one of those walk-the-line supernatural/psychological horror stories, a la Henry James or Edgar Allen Poe, in which you can never quite be sure whether ghosts are influencing events, or the protagonist of the piece is psychotic.  It's a tough genre to pull off, and Desmond half succeeds  -  which means he half doesn't.  I probably would have liked this book more, if it:  a. wasn't so hallucinogenic that it's hard to follow; b. was told in something other than first person, so it wasn't so hard to follow; and c. was clearer on what was going on, so it wasn't so hard to follow.  It doesn't help matters any that I'm a jaded reader of this very genre, and recently read Graham Masterton's Trauma, which is very similar but much better written and more effective.<br />That said, Abandon does at least tell a coherent story, once you go back and re-read a few things and puzzle it out.  It meanders a bit, and it becomes fairly clear early on that the protagonist is less influenced by ghosts than he is simply criminally schizophrenic  -  put more simply, I never believed any ghosts were present (even if some nominal doors are left open for that interpretation), and was far ahead of the surprise plot revelations the whole way.<br />The greatest problem this book has is that none of its characters are really sympathetic.  The most sympathy that can be evinced is for the victims, not because they are likeable (or unlikeable either, for that matter), but simply because they don't deserve to be murdered.  None of them are developed enough to have any feelings about, one way or the other  -  they merely exist as ciphers for the crazed protagonist to deal with.  The protagonist (who is never even given a name) tells the entire story in first-person narrative, and is so painfully self-absorbed that an unbiased presentation of the victims wouldn't be possible anyway, even if he bothered to talk about them more.<br />This would make a good movie, if the plot were presented morecomprehensibly.  However, the slated upcoming Paramount film sounds actually more confusing than its source material  -  it turns the protagonist into a woman (Katie Holmes), which, given some of the plot turns of the novel, is going to be problematic at best...though it sounds, from early reports, as if it's all been pretty thoroughly rewritten into a completely different piece, anyway.	2002-05-21
US	39614869	R36PPA1IFQ8EQW	0312878273	652735495	Nightmare At 20,000 Feet: Horror Stories By Richard Matheson	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Twenty Horrific Hauntings	Each of the twenty Matheson short story/novella gems in this collection represents a separate haunting, of sorts.  There are traditional haunted houses, haunted psyches, and beings from elsewhere who haunt and bedevil unsuspecting souls in strange places.  Unlike most horror authors, Matheson excels both in the writing of novels and the writing of short stories, and each of these little nightmares are quite well-crafted.<br />The two showpieces, beginning and ending the book, are among the author's most famous stories.  The former is the title of the book, in which a fearful flyer becomes engaged in a private little war with a gremlin that is dismantling the engine of the plane in which he is riding.  This story was the concluding one of the Twilight Zone movie, and was probably the best known (or at least best remembered) of the original series.  The latter, \\"Prey,\\" was adapted into the central piece of two Dan Curtis T.V. movies, Trilogy of Terror and Trilogy of Terror II.  \\"Prey\\" revolves around a Zuni fetish doll called \\"He Who Kills,\\" who  -  needless to say  -  lives up to his name.<br />These two stories alone are worth the price of admission, but Matheson has included eighteen more from his early 1950s to late 1960s period, when he was at his peak.  Among them are found psychopathic interlopers, men driven mad with their own rage or paranoid obsessions, psychotics, ghosts, vampires, unearthly predators...something for everyone.<br />I am a lifelong Matheson fan, and was surprised at the number of stories in this collection I had never seen before.  I meant to savor them over at least a week, but found myself reading the whole lot from start to finish in a single sitting  -  without even going to the bathroom!<br />Highly recommended for all fans of horror stories, and lovers of short stories in general.  Matheson is a genuine master.	2002-05-18
US	39614869	R35AQQ7G5LE0A	0821718576	246891165	Wait and See	Books	3	12	13	N	N	"Dem bones, dem bones, dey gonna rise..."	Charlene Childress was always an odd child.  She had this thing about breaking her dollies into little pieces.  And intimidating her few friends.  Then there was her playroom out in the barn  -  with the knife and the axe and the altar, and the goat head in the pentagram, where now and then one of the farm animals checked in as if into a roach motel, never to come out again.<br />Twenty-six years ago, fifteen year old Charlene talked one of her many boyfriends into a suicide pact  -  thought it would give her special powers, or some such thing.  He killed her, all right  -  and then sobered-up and realized what he'd done.  He chained up her corpse, real good, and snagged it under the roots of an old tree, beneath the river.  He's tried to forget about it ever since, but, needless to say, it's haunted him into his adult life.<br />Charlene's mother always was convinced her daughter's boyfriend of that summer killed her.  She's cozied-up to his family in the ensuing years, to lure them into living with her, so she can torture and murder his offspring as she's convinced he did hers...<br />This is an often highly unpleasant novel, a cross between the ugly child sadism of John Saul and the returning wraith plots of Peter Straub.  The horror is effective, though essentially nonsensical  -  Charlene's skeleton returns to murder everyone she didn't like when the twisted girl was still alive, for some reason even taking a dislike to her treacherous mother (who is so much like her!).  The title has no meaning whatsoever.  Most of the action in the latter half of the book, when Charlene's wraith is out carving up old scores, is pretty random, and the story ends rather abruptly.  But it's not bad, if you're just looking for a thing-going-bump-in-the-night book.<br />Happily, this book is out of print  -  not because it isn't worth reading, but because its original cover was luridly awful, and if they ever reprint it, that can only improve.	2002-05-15
US	39614869	R3AJFDTHDJB9CL	0671690205	121294047	SCARECROW	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Ozark Gothic	This is not your average horror novel.  It's more a Southern Gothic, out on the hillbilly farm.<br />Traveler Pamela Westbrook has an auto accident while traveling through the Ozarks, and is picked up by the nearby Whittaker family:  suspicious patriarch Seth; his friendly and subdued wife Rachel; and their son and two daughters, the young son with only one hand and a curious disposition, the older daughter anxious to escape the farm for the big city with Pamela, and the little girl a possible witch, able to heal with her hands and rumored to have the ability to raise the dead.  Pamela enjoys her stay with the family, but is eager to go home.  Someone, however, very much wants her to stay  -  and may be willing to kill to get their wish.<br />This reads like one of the better episodes of The Twilight Zone, The Alfred Hitchcock Hour or Boris Karloff's Thriller.  To say too much would be to spoil the intricately thought-out plot and many clever surprises along the way.  Suffice it to say it's more or less a superior Gothic murder mystery, with just a dash of the supernatural, containing family secrets, buried bodies, and people who aren't what they seem.<br />A real treat.	2002-05-15
US	39614869	R1QZYLHIW7AXIQ	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Invasion of the Intestine Weasels	The reunion of four old friends from Derry, Maine, is ruined when two of them are in a road accident caused by an oblivious woman pedestrian.  The woman harbors an alien fungus, that mutates in the body into a dangerous life-form, something like a razor-toothed weasel.  Before too long, the thing erupts from her body and goes on a killing spree.  But that is only the beginning of troubles:  the isolated cabin in the woods where the friends planned to reunite is surrounded by a military cordon, publicly denying local UFO activity while secretly rounding-up into camps all infected humans.<br />This book contains some of King's best characters and writing, and is quite well-plotted.  It has a major underlying flaw, which is the handling of the aliens.  King isn't consistent, or terribly coherent, in explaining the extraterrestrial threat.  He also employs a telepathic plot device that becomes terribly confusing to follow, though with a little effort the reader can overcome it.  It is also  -  like virtually all of King's fiction  -  far longer than it really wants to be, suffering from a great deal of unnecessary padding, though it has less redundancy than many of the author's other works.<br />In brief:  a typically good King read, short on logic or coherence but very strong on character and plot.	2002-05-13
US	39614869	R27CBAVDEY35NG	1587541033	447698175	The Manitou	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Selling the Preposterous	This is Masterton's first, and still one of his best.  Masterton has an absolute gift for selling the preposterous, and making it entirely believable.  He does so through dialogue and characterization, and I've never seen anyone do it better.<br />Karen Tandy visits her old boyfriend Harry Erskine, occult mavin and low-budget tarot reader to wealthy old ladies, because of a unique problem she's developed  -  a tumor on her neck, which to all intents and purposes appears to be a fetus.  The doctors seem unable to remove it, and Harry starts experiencing paranormal disturbances after Karen comes to him for help.  He, and a few initially skeptical doctors, reluctantly come to the conclusion that Karen Tandy is harboring the fetus of a powerful centuries-old medicine man about to be reborn  -  whose birth would first claim the life of Karen, and after, the entire white race, with his vengeful sorcery.  What's modern science to do, against such a supernatural adversary?  Why, fight fire with fire, of course  -  get another medicine man.<br />It's absolutely amazing that this piece works, but it's really great.  Masterton never cracks a smile (until the very end), playing the situation up for real and sucking you into it so you believe it.  The characters are fabulous, especially Karen, Harry  -  who appeared in the semi-sequel, The Djinn  -  and John Singing Rock, the rival medicine man to the rescue.<br />Masterton's stories almost always end on a lighter note, with the deliberate inclusion of a solution that is almost a joke, but the technique works because he's cluing his audience in to the fact that he realizes how silly it all is  -  he just wanted to show you he could make you believe it  -  and the concluding laughter he provokes is welcome and sympathetic, not denigrating the finely written novel at all.<br />The all-star movie made from this book in the late-'70s is worth a look.  It's a faithful adaptation, though it doesn't work quite as well as the book due to some severe special effects deficits and a crummy musical score.	2002-05-13
US	39614869	R2WMF24NISSI7W	0553277839	46548114	Faerie Tale	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Dark Disney	Fans of Walt Disney's Snow White will love this one.  It has the same sense of dark menace, intruding on what is otherwise the picture of serenity.<br />The Hastings family is wealthy and successful, with normal kids growing up in a good environment.  Their new home isn't like the old one, however.  The grounds are haunted by mischievous sprites, which the whole family see at one point or another and don't want to believe in.  Most of them look harmless enough  -  one is even a leprechaun refugee straight out of Darby O'Gill and the Little People, all tam-o'-shantered in green  -  but they are restless, and becoming menacing.  Something has disturbed them.  And with their disturbance comes the return of an ancient war, that could ultimately threaten far more than the Hastings family...<br />This is a very involving and enjoyable read, with well-drawn characters, a nicely crafted mystery, and even a pot-o'-gold at the end of the rainbow  -  more or less.  It goes on longer than it probably should, and becomes a bit confusing in its plethora of fantasy elements toward the end, but is well worth the effort.	2002-05-13
US	39614869	R10YB2LD6N4KC	0812541642	819603580	Waiting	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Power, Part 2	Fans of Robinson's classic The Power won't be disappointed by this pretty good thriller, which for all practical intents and purposes could be taken as a sequel to that novel. The Power dealt with a superhuman psychically empowered mutant, who baited others with similar potential out into the open in order to eliminate the competition. Waiting has pretty much the same plot, only the superhumans are an entire underground offshoot cousin of homo sapiens, out to eliminate more ordinary terrestrial man from the gene pool.<br />Like The Power, Waiting is written more or less as a paranormal murder mystery/suspense novel, and is mostly successful as such. It is more contrived than its predecessor, but no less enjoyable. Its science is perhaps a little under-researched, though not sufficiently to ruin the premise, and most readers probably won't notice or care, anyway.<br />What works best in this novel is the feel of underground guerilla warfare that is prevalent throughout. Not all of the superhumans are in favor of eradicating mankind, some preferring to continue peaceful cohabitation and perhaps achieve eventual integration with them. That conflict creates for interesting subplots within the plot, spicing things up considerably. It also creates a strong aura of menace and paranoia that are quite effective. <br />Waiting has been rumored to be the inspiration for the short-lived T.V. series Prey, which was probably better overall than this book, but not by much.	2002-05-13
US	39614869	R3LHSKP747PTIK	0786890436	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Horror, the Horror - Of Crass Commercialism!	As the book that sells the movie that sells the book, the book is much better than the movie, which is awful. It's actually a pretty entertaining read, though probably not for the reasons Stephen King intended.<br />The conceit of the book being the edited diary of a turn of the century woman falls flat pretty much from the start, for a number of reasons. The viewpoints are very much those of a contemporary man, however hard they might try to appear otherwise. The language is archaic, not as actual old speech is archaic, but in an artificially theatrical sense. King uses the word \\"did\\" so often, it becomes a joke - as in, \\"The curtains did part,\\" or \\"The smoke did rise,\\" or \\"Her face did turn pale.\\" This is the way a contemporary author or a soap opera actress imagines people from a past age to have written or spoken, not the way those people really did.<br />There are bad continuity problems, which should have been caught in editing. At one point, King clearly states that a character hemorrhaged to death after clawing out his own eyes, and later that same character is referred to as still being alive and in prison. At another point, a character is referred to as pacing throughout a certain piece of dramatic business, and on the very next page he contradicts the assertion by taking a seat which he doesn't leave until the said business is concluded.<br />There are times when the action is over-the-top, but nowhere near as badly as in the miniseries/movie. There is, however, a great deal of comically melodramatic foreshadowing - i.e., lightning striking at precisely the moment someone makes a shocking announcement, or has a dire thought. The funniest line in the book is one in which the writer of the diary hopes that \\"some scientist\\" will one day explain what is happening in Rose Red, since she cannot - and, of course, we all know what happens in the miniseries.<br />It's all pretty silly, and not scary (or even very suspenseful) in the slightest, but it's great fun if you're in the mood for this kind of thing.	2002-05-12
US	39614869	R8V89B660QFJT	0786014776	790921730	Bad Things	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Murder and Madness and Little Green Men	Some members of the Piper family are capable of seeing the Greenjacks, elemental little men invisible to everyone else.  Ricky can see them.  They try to trick him into letting one of them take over his body, but he won't let them.  Ricky's twin older brother, Robin  -  identical, except for having been born without legs  -  likes to tease Ricky about his fear of the Greenjacks, and their more frightening creation, Big Jack, a giant creature of twigs, vines and leaves, who appears only on Halloween night, is visible to anyone, and can affect the material world until the stroke of midnight.<br />Thirty years ago, on Halloween night, Robin played a little trick on Ricky, and had a little accident  -  an accident apparently caused by Big Jack.  After that night, Robin was never the same.  Ricky was afraid of him.  He had good reason to be.  People died, around Robin  -  including his and Ricky's parents.  Robin very likely was responsible for setting a fire that killed him, and a lot of other people with him.<br />Now, Ricky has kids of his own.  He's inherited the family estate  -  and whatever still haunts it.  Is he crazy?  Or are the Greenjacks still there?  Were they ever?  Was he hallucinating?  Ricky very badly wants to know.  Because something whispers to his son at night, and has lecherous eyes for his daughter.<br />This is a beautifully written book, that succeeds on numerous levels.  Thorne reveals a supernatural bias too early, but that doesn't diminish her examinations of sibling rivalry, the origins of psychopathy and psychosis, and the burdens of living with mentally ill loved ones.  It's reminiscent of The Other by Tom Tryon, and in some ways of Dean Koontz's Twilight Eyes, though it is very much its own tale.<br />At its core, this is a story about love and redemption.  Its only flaw is a slight predictability, but it remains believable throughout.  It's a Gothic thriller, set in modern day California, but managing to raise quite a few chills for sucha warm, sunny clime.<br />This is the first book of Thorne's I've read, but I greatly look forward to more.	2002-05-10
US	39614869	R1KZE8TASWOENQ	0743418344	354786688	Loose Ends (Roswell, 1)	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Gangsta Rap Roswell	The plot is terrific.  The characterizations are so-so and inconsistent.  The villain is awful  -  not \\"he's a great bad guy,\\" I mean written really terribly.  It's the last that really sinks this otherwise good story.<br />Maria suggests her friend Liz and the perpetually serious alien cadre they hang out with get away from it all with a little trip to Carlsbad Caverns.  Liz finds more than bats in the caves:  the man who shot her two years before in the Crashdown Cafe is in the gift shop.  Does he recognize her?  If not, how long before he does?  What should she do about it?  Run?  Call the cops?  After all, officially, no one knows she was even injured  -  alien boyfriend Max healed her up, before anyone realized she'd been shot.  The let-it-lie option evaporates quickly, when Max and his alien sister Isabel find out Liz's shooter is involved in some kind of scam with Air Force personnel  -  and, given their past fracases with the government, they have to find out what it's all about.<br />This book starts out great, and goes downhill fast.  Its first flaw is the inconsistent and generally out-of-character portrayals of the principals.  Non-series fans may not notice, anymore than they will the odd preoccupation Cox gives the characters with Tabasco sauce (an incidental running gag on the show, that Cox turns into something more), but of course series fans will be the primary purchasers of the novel.<br />Liz's shooter, the big bad guy of the piece, has the worst dialogue this side of a 1930's gangster movie, and that's no exaggeration.  He doesn't actually say \\"coppers,\\" but he might as well.  He's also unbelievably careless and uncoordinated, for a man arranging sales of top secrets.  He's just not very credible, in any department.  His actions  -  and often those of the other characters as well  -  are bizarrely abrupt and inexplicable, even for a psychopath.<br />What the book does have going for it is the good story, a nice sense of humor, and likeable (if inconsistently accurate) central characters.  If you can take the book's flaws, you might enjoy it, but it's not very indicative of the series as a whole and will probably disappoint most fans.	2002-05-06
US	39614869	R2JP2U22LR0ZII	084394935X	14551897	Spirit	Books	3	8	8	N	N	"...Who Thicks Man's Blood With Cold."	Mixed grab-bag of a book.  Masterton's writing is superb and his story interesting, but the central premise is shaky, at best.<br />The Buchanan girls lose their little sister, Peggy, to the frozen lake behind their woodland house during WWII.  In the years to follow, little Peg pays them several visits  -  and chills people they know to death.  She isn't their little sister anymore, but a creature out of their collective imagination somehow freed and made real by the circumstances of Peg's drowning, and her/its continued presence in the Buchanan sister's lives is that of an unwelcome guardian angel.  Until they exorcize it, it will kill those around them  -  friends and family, as well as enemies.<br />Masterton writes Americana better than most Americans  -  and he's a subject of the United Kingdom.  His novel is epic and involving, following the Buchanan sisters from WWII to the 1960s (and beyond, in epilogue).  His characters are well-drawn, complex and interesting.  The texture of this novel is rich.<br />The central premise is hard to swallow, even from someone as gifted and experienced as Masterton admittedly is at selling the impossible.  The ending of the book is too abrupt, and not all that satisfying.<br />But the read itself is terrific.  Spirit is not Masterton's best novel, but it's overall a worthwhile foray into the supernatural.	2002-05-06
US	39614869	R3Q1RYP3XUQ6OG	0425097269	612750828	Shadowland	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Be Careful What You Wish For...	Tom Flanagan and his more affluent friend, Del Nightingale, receive an invitation from Del's uncle, Coleman Collins, to spend the summer with him.  Collins is perhaps the greatest stage magician in the world, and both of the boys love magic.  Collins promises to teach them both some new tricks.  In fact, he promises to pass all his secrets on to the worthier of the two, which couldn't please Del more, since he wants to be the greatest living magician.  Of course, one should always be careful what one wishes for...<br />This is an extraordinary book, something that might come from Walt Disney, if Disney was capable of coming up with anything either adult or horrific.  It is best described as a nightmarish fairy-tale, full of magic  -  but mostly from the dark side.<br />As is typical of Straub, the story is constructed in convoluted and highly complicated form, all of which builds nicely to the conclusion of the main story at hand.  The action begins in an Arizona boys' prep school, moves to an isolated mansion in Vermont, and includes numerous stories of Collins' highly checkered past throughout war-torn Europe, each tale of which increasingly fuels a mounting sense of dread  -  for Coleman Collins is much more than he seems; much more, and much worse.<br />I'm amazed no one ever attempted to make a movie of Shadowland, for it is highly cinematic in style.  It isn't as good as Straub's preceding masterpiece, Ghost Story, but is still a worthy successor and a great, involving read.  The characters are well-realized, the action intriguing, and the atmosphere and actual magic of the piece are striking.	2002-05-01
US	39614869	R2X47BT9QEP864	0671685635	207023183	Ghost Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"The Most Dreadful Thing..."	The idyllic little country town of Milburn, Connecticut, is under supernatural siege.  Inexplicable suicides and curious accidents are occurring.  Livestock are found mutilated in snowy fields, with no footprints around them.  Dead loved ones visit the living  -  who die under bizarre circumstances, shortly after.  A dwindling number of affluent old men in the community, who call themselves the Chowder Society, know something about it.  But they're not talking.  Because they can't believe, themselves, the reason why  -  and they're running scared, because they're the victims of choice.<br />This is Straub's most intricate, atmospheric, and satisfying novel, constructed as a highly convoluted Chinese puzzle-box of interlocking stories, with a single underlying, unifying theme.  The Chowder Society gather together to tell ghost stories, all centered around exorcizing an unexplainable series of events from their collective youth, which appears to be the root cause of the nightmare events in their little town, not to mention their own lives.  \\"What's the most terrible thing you've ever done?\\" is the question they continually ask each other.  \\"I won't tell you that,\\" is their pat club answer, \\"but I'll tell you the worst thing that ever happened to me...the most dreadful thing...\\"  From this, Straub derives his springboard of individual ghost and horror stories, pondering the origin of all humanity's nightmares  -  and explains them with a uniquely novel answer, better discovered by the reader for himself than revealed (beware, some of the reviews below contain spoilers).<br />Straub generally demands great patience of his readers, and such is the case here, but he pays off in spades for those who stay the course.  The style is occasionally a bit over-the-top, but it achieves the desired effect.<br />I've read this book a few times, and enjoy it more with successive readings.  It's a brilliant piece.  Very involving, endlessly fascinating, and scary as frozen hell for the holidays.<br />Treat yourself.  Don't miss it.	2002-05-01
US	39614869	R1YRJY94O5SRV2	0345423402	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	"Sex Like A Silken Bruise"	The phrase is Hamilton's own, used near the end of the book, and sums it up well.  There isn't really as much sex in Kiss of Shadows as other reviewers would lead you to believe, but there is even more erotica.  Hamilton seems to be making a stab at giving Anne Rice a run for her money in the BD/SM department, and it's a pretty good run, at that.  What Hamilton writes best is simple sensuality  -  she's so good at it, she makes even pain a pleasure.<br />The vehicle for Hamilton's erotic romp is the story of refugee faerie princess Meredith \\"Merry\\" NicEssus, who has been working for a supernatural detective agency in L.A. for three years in order to escape her sadistic queen aunt's courtly intrigues, which include a desire for Merry's death.  Sightings of the Princess Meredith rival those of Elvis in the tabloids (the Fey are as commonly accepted in Hamilton's world as foreign royalty, or any minority), and mere exposure could end up costing her her life.  Merry's latest case brings her to public attention, and she finds herself reluctantly drawn back to the Cahokia fairy mounds to play out her elusive aunt's latest game  -  a race between her and her evil cousin Cel to produce a lawful faerie heir to the throne.<br />This book is a mostly failed novel, in the sense that it doesn't really complete any of its plot points by its conclusion.  It is obvious that Kiss of Shadows is merely the first in a line of ongoing novels.  But it is quite well-written and involving, and the most sensual read you could hope for outside of Anne Rice's blatantly erotic novels.  Merry is a genuinely likeable character, as are her Seelie and Unseelie Court friends and helpmeets.  As in her Anita Blake novels, Hamilton devotes an inordinate amount of attention to protocol as politics, but it is less bothersome or intrusive.<br />If you're looking for plot, you're in the wrong place.  This one is recommended for those who love character-driven stories, and good fantasies  -  sexual, more than genre.	2002-04-28
US	39614869	R2TIBWGHUAAXAO	0451205553	634041775	Trauma	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"Something Dreadful May Have Happened..."	This is the best book of its type I've ever read.  Only two books ever made me scream by their end, and this is one of them.<br />Thirty-four year old Bonnie Winter is undergoing too many life crises, of late  -  her husband has been out of work for a year, her seventeen year old son is discovering violence to prove himself as a man, she's working two jobs to make ends meet and wrestling with the idea of embarking on an affair  -  and her second job doesn't make things any easier.  Bonnie is a \\"sanitizer,\\" one of those people who cleans up messy suicides and crime scenes, and the endless wash of blood and violence across the decaying fabric of her life's seams is taking its toll.  On top of everything else, she's discovered something unusual at the scene of three messy family suicide-homicides:  a rare species of caterpillar that doesn't exist in our part of the world, and is legendarily attached to insanity and familial murder...<br />This book is the most superior example of minimalist horror you could hope to find.  It succeeds as a crime novel, as a supernatural horror story and as a tale of descent into psychological and spiritual madness.  However one ultimately chooses to interpret it, Trauma is a horror story par excellence.  Graham Masterton has written many fine novels of the type, but this is by far not only his best, but one of the best to be found in any of the aforementioned genres.<br />If someone doesn't make a movie out of this clammy nightmare of a book, it'll be a crime.  But don't wait for Hollywood to discover it.  Beat them to it, and treat yourself to one of the shudderiest suspensers in the English language.	2002-04-26
US	39614869	R16I9QD5GMRLZ2	0441007813	951523061	Obsidian Butterfly (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Oh, Yeah? Yeah! Sez You!	I have to preface this review by stating that this is the only Laurell K. Hamilton I've read to date, Anita Blake series or otherwise. I plan on giving her another shot, because I suspect she's capable of better than this piece.<br />Vampire hunter Anita Blake leaves her St. Louis home to help out her sociopathic bounty hunter friend, Edward, and the police, on an alarming serial murder case: victims are being flayed alive, and kept alive - more or less - by means of some supernatural nastiness. Anita's expertise, and that of a criminal team assembled by Edward, are necessary to figure out the origin of, and cure for, the specific evil involved.<br />I'll start with what works, which is Hamilton's sense of humor, prevalent throughout in her first-person narration of Anita Blake. Hamilton's other characters - at least the criminal ones - are well-drawn, interesting, and generally appalling.<br />Unfortunately, virtually everything else doesn't work, starting with the fact that all Hamilton's well-drawn characters are appalling. None of the characters, Anita Blake included, has an emotional maturity level above age fifteen, tops. There's more testosterone-driven male-posturing in this book than in the entire World Wrestling Federation on steroids, most of it - inappropriately and comically enough - being done by Anita Blake. The plot is paper-thin, and moves slower than a lame mule across the Andes. Much of the violence in this book - and I am not opposed to violence in books - goes beyond the measure of good taste, even for the type of piece this is. The entire book is essentially a series of pissing contests between Blake and every other character - the entire police force, Edward and his entire psychopathic cadre, underworld vampires, underworld werewolves, and anyone else she comes across. She's also pathologically self-absorbed, diminishing her appeal. The ultimate payoff is terribly anticlimactic, and isn't worth the trip getting to it.<br />It took me literallymonths to finish this book, and I only completed it out of sheer stubbornness.  Hamilton is not a bad writer, however.  If this, or any other of her Anita Blake novels stick in your craw, you might well enjoy her Princess Meredith series, beginning with A Kiss of Shadows  -  it's similar, but much lighter-hearted.	2002-04-24
US	39614869	R1SQ2PSWEPURM2	0451200284	499799834	Scavenger	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Man Of Many Parts	Hitchcock would have loved Tom Savage.  He has a talent for creating a heightened dramatic realism that manages to stay just credible enough to allow suspension of disbelief, and his plots are exceedingly intricate and well thought out.<br />Newly celebrated author Mark Stevenson writes a popular mystery based on the real-life exploits of a never-apprehended serial killer called The Family Man, and becomes the target of someone calling himself &quot;Scavenger.&quot;  Scavenger involves Stevenson in a deadly clue-hunting game of cat-and-mouse, with the prize being the revelation of The Family Man's true identity.  Along the way, a few new victims are tallied...<br />Jaded mystery and suspense buffs may find themselves a jump or two ahead of this one, but it doesn't matter.  Savage's usual talent for creating characters who are not what they seem is at its best, here.  He is skillful at misdirection, and always manages to provide a few surprises even to those who figure out some of the major plot twists before the end.<br />Most importantly, Savage delivers.  He promises much, and actually delivers more.  The reader is taken on the same merry rollercoaster ride as Mark Stevenson throughout the book, with not a few clammy, white-knuckle moments, and a great deal of tension.  It can only whet the reader's appetite to know in advance that there are echoes of Seven and Strangers On A Train in this book, because anyone thinking they can figure out what's going on by being in possession of that knowledge will be duly and truly surprised when they discover Savage's variations on the themes.	2002-04-22
US	39614869	R141WJS67JJW3N	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Devil, You Say!	That this book is a clammy chiller is actually incidental to the fact that it is a superior novel exploring faith in crisis.  In the course of the story, one girl's horrifying condition forces all who encounter her to confront their own beliefs, and re-examine whatever their faith may be.<br />When adorable pre-adolescent Regan McNeill begins exhibiting multiple personalities and bizarre physical phenomena truly horrifying to behold, her progressively suffering famous actress mother Chris takes her to a succession of doctors who are unable even to diagnose Regan's condition, let alone treat it.  In desperation, Chris turns to a Jesuit psychiatrist, Damien Karras, for an exorcism, but he and the Church have become too modernized to any longer believe in Evil.  After Karras does an investigation and becomes convinced Regan's condition is in fact a case of diabolical possession, the Church reluctantly commissions the steadfast Father Merrin to perform the arcane rite, and the ancient conflict of good vs. evil becomes embodied between him and Regan  -  to the death.<br />Blatty's brilliant book is essentially a Passion Play framed by a police procedural (there is a curious fatality connected to the ailing Regan), and performed as an existential drama.  The suffering of Chris and Regan McNeill is palpable and gut-wrenching, and Father Karras' literal wrestling with his own faith is psychologically gripping.  The finale is simply not to be forgotten.  The whole is so intensely emotionally engaging as to raise The Exorcist to the level of classic literature, a novel far greater than the sum of its parts.<br />This is easily one of the best books I've ever read, and unquestionably one of the most memorable.  I couldn't recommend it more highly.	2002-04-17
US	39614869	RFD7SVJB2Y8DK	0345450051	961605463	Spider-Man	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Web-Slingin' Wonderful!	If the movie's even half as good as the novelization  -  and with Sam Raimi directing, it oughta be terrific  -  we're in for a treat.  And even if it isn't, it won't diminish this wonderfully written Spider-Man novel.  Spidey's never really had a good incarnation outside of Marvel Comics  -  until now.<br />Purists may cry foul at the few changes made to the original character(s), but those changes only help to tell a more epic story in a more reasonable amount of time.  Without stating any spoilers, the story of Spider-Man presented here covers the origins of Peter Parker's transformation into the friendly neighborhood webslinger, that of his arch-nemesis the Green Goblin, and of course his romance with Mary Jane.<br />Structurally, it resembles the dramatization of the first Batman movie, though stylistically it has a great deal more humor.  Comic book fans will be delighted by the numerous in-joke references to other superhero characters, as well as phrases and lesser villains from Stan Lee, and the astute reader may catch some subtly placed jokes referring to the actors playing the roles in the movie.<br />But the most pleasant surprise about this version of Spider-Man is its maturity level.  The character as originally written always suffered somewhat from too juvenile a mindset, which this Spider-Man does not.  Peter Parker is a credibly modern young man of post-high school/pre-college age.  Mary Jane, similarly, is a more realistically fleshed-out character, with recognizably real home problems and issues.  The Green Goblin is not a mere sneering carnival spook-house caricature, but an inwardly tormented and unwisely desperate man who sets the wheels of his own destruction in motion.  The very questions of heroism and villainy are dealt with not as clear-cut issues of black and white, but more as psychologically complex developments occurring largely by accident and partly by design, stemming from innate character strengths or flaws inherent in the individual.  Responsibility for one's own actions, all random accidents of life notwithstanding, is at the story's core.<br />Even readers completely unfamiliar with Spider-Man will enjoy this book.  I'm only sorry it's over.  Hey  -  maybe they'll write some more!  (Hint, hint.)	2002-04-16
US	39614869	RELTGQQ08X66J	0451409787	148209797	Valentine	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remember Me  -  ?	A clicque of posh college socialites pulled a rather mean prank on Viktor DiMorta, a few years back.  They didn't realize he was already a little unbalanced, and didn't need the added push over the edge.  Now, many years later, Viktor's back, with quite a rap sheet, a bit of plastic surgery, and more than one murder behind him  -  including his own folks.  (What a guy!)  Viktor likes playing this little \\"valentine\\" game, on the holiday of the same name.  Each year, he picks out one of the girls who played that mean little prank on him, and wooes her  -  to death.<br />The plot couldn't be more hackneyed, but it reads wonderfully.  Savage constructs a complex psychopath, pitiful yet terrifying, and lets the \\"excitable boy\\" out to play.  The murders are graphic and gruesome, and the suspense is very cleverly handled.  The last socialite in line knows pretty soon that her stalker is Viktor DiMorta  -  but who is he?  He could be any stranger she happens to pass on the street...or even someone she already knows.<br />Forget the movie  -  and forgive it.  It really isn't that bad.  It was cursed with the impossibility of presenting a book that isn't written to be performed, but read.  Savage plays with perspective and reader expectations in a way that simply isn't possible for a movie to dramatize.  And he does it very, very well.	2002-04-15
US	39614869	R1VRSS4TBMD4TK	0452278678	233730461	Cold Heaven	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Belief Is In the Eye of the Beholder	This is a failed novel, but a pretty good book.  It doesn't really have a plot, but is instead a story designed to illustrate how perceptions shape individual realities.<br />A woman and her husband vacationing in the south of France have their trip cut short by his fatal accident  -  well, sort of.  Seems he just won't stay put in the morgue.  She thinks it has something to do with a vision of the Virgin Mary she once had  -  even though she long ago renounced her Catholicism.  He implies (though never outright states) that he understands why he isn't dead, and doesn't want to be discovered until he has \\"recovered\\" from his rigor mortis-ish condition, for fear that he will be regarded as a freak.  A nearby convent gets involved in the wife's reluctant vision quest, which she avoids because she doesn't want to attract publicity to her hiding husband or her own affair with another man.<br />The story is almost a black comedy as written by Dean Koontz.  (In fact, Koontz has used variations of these plotlines in his books, namely Strangers, Shadowfires, and Mr. Murder, to name a few.)  Nothing is clearly answered or resolved by the end of the story, though there are strong implications made in a number of different directions as to why the bizarre phenomena are occurring.  In essence, the reader fills in his own blanks and virtually writes the story of his choice according to whose perceptions he agrees with.  It's almost a Rorschach blot for belief systems.<br />It's also quite a good read.  It will definitely not be to everyone's tastes.  If you're looking for a comprehensive, standard novel, you'll be horribly disappointed.  If you simply want to spend a while walking the line of Faith, examining it from every different angle and psychologically exploring the different human mechanisms of belief, you'll be endlessly fascinated.	2002-04-15
US	39614869	RBNPDW1M9PB1U	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Mary Shelley Lives!	If there is reincarnation, surely Anne Rice is Mary Shelley.  Taltos, especially, hearkens back to Frankenstein.<br />I have not read the other Mayfair Witches books, so I can't compare Taltos to them, though I have read most of Rice's books and a good portion of The Witching Hour (first in the Mayfair series), which is generally better written than Taltos.<br />Taltos has extremely well-developed and interesting characters, and more straight plot than is usual for Rice.  The Taltos are a \\"mythical\\" race of near-immortal demigods, the history and exploits of which are recorded by a sort of occult research Order known as the Talamasca, who are also aware of (Rice's) vampires and the Mayfair family of witches.  In fact, the Mayfairs are related to the Taltos, deriving much of their psychic ability from that genetic line.  The mating of Taltos and humans is a precarious affair at best, often resulting in madness or death, which the Mayfairs have had to deal with as a sort of family curse throughout their known lineage.<br />In Taltos, friends of the Mayfairs in the Talamasca are being murdered by a person or persons unknown.  The Talamasca are as anxious to figure out who is responsible as are the Mayfairs, themselves.  Into their midst arrives Ashlar, the last known survivor of the Taltos race, which is a potentially catastrophic circumstance both for him and any of the Mayfair line, since they are compulsively drawn to breed with one another and the result is far from pleasant  -  the present head of the Mayfair clan only recently survived one such attempt, and is just now coming out of her trauma to rejoin the world of the living.<br />It's hard to say more without giving too much of the game away, and Taltos is worthy of reading.  It is better plotted than most of Rice's novels, and has her usual memorable characters with their fascinating moral ambiguities, but suffers from her episodic style of writing.  Rice's ancient history is always spotty, and questionable at best, and she spends too much time detailing it, bogging down pretty much the entire final third of the book.  But the story is dramatic and good, and it comes to a believable climax.<br />Certainly not Rice's best, but worth the time if you like her style.	2002-04-15
US	39614869	R3FIKLJFIH57AD	0345369947	128741164	The Mummy or Ramses the Damned	Books	4	3	4	N	N	My Fair Mummy	Rice sticks to her vampire themes by abandoning her vampire trappings, with good results.<br />Like most of Rice's best work, The Mummy deals with the trials of immortality, and existential angst.  It reads like an Agatha Christie novel, or a period melodrama or soap opera, and plays with some of the most absurd plot elements imaginable, yet Rice manages to pull it all off and leave you wanting more.<br />Egyptologist Julie Stratford inadvertently awakens the mummy of Ramses the Damned, who is actually an immortal taking a very long nap.  He's really a very handsome and urbane fellow, once he's free of those dusty bandages and rehydrated a bit.  He's also a very quick learner, not only picking up the English language, but even managing the British accent to go with it, faster than you can sing your favorite song from My Fair Lady.  He slips with ease into English society, and becomes embroiled in the nasty and potentially lethal melodrama that is Julie's present life.  Along the way, he misses his old mistress, Cleopatra, and makes the mistake of waking her up  -  she just isn't quite her old Elizabeth Taylor self anymore, being a wee bit testy and homicidal in her brain-damaged state.<br />Yes, it all sounds ridiculous, but it works, in a sort of romantic fantasy way, and is quite dramatic and sometimes horrific, to boot.  The one real flaw with this novel is that it doesn't have a proper ending, which is a failing of nearly all Rice's works.<br />The whole thing would fall flat on its face if Rice either cracked a smile at any point during the telling of the tale, or, conversely, made the mistake of expecting it to be taken in all seriousness, but instead she simply presents the piece as a kind of wonderfully escapist 1950s or '60s Saturday matinee.<br />I do have one complaint, however.  Rice promised this series would continue.  So?  When?	2002-04-15
US	39614869	R1JWRO5UCALF2U	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Unnecessary, But Worthwhile	Artistically, the greatest mistake Anne Rice ever made was flogging her best book to death by churning out sequels it didn't want or need.  But Lestat is admittedly at least a good read, even if it doesn't really go anywhere but sideways.<br />Lestat awakens in the modern age to the new sound of rock music, and  -  vain creature that he is  -  can't resist the temptation to come out of the shadows and become a rock star, himself.  Since he's up, he decides to tell us his story in some detail.  And some more detail.  And a whole lot more detail, after that.<br />This book has no reason to exist.  It's pointless.  It isn't a real story with a beginning or end, just a number of vignettes from the central character's life.  It reads like a Goth soap opera.<br />But that doesn't mean it isn't entertaining.  It's a wonderful read, if you just want to hear an immortal yack on (and on, and on) and give you a little perspective from the undead side of life.<br />Rice is a splendid writer.  But if she's ever heard of a plot, she doesn't let on.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R1V76PA89TWPIR	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's A Madhouse!  A Madhouse!	Deservedly a classic.  Any fan of any of the multivarious Apes incarnations (movies, T.V. show, comic books, etc.), especially the movies, will find their favorite Apes story somewhere in its pages  -  though differently than they have been portrayed, for the most part.  Boulle's novel is an epic, sprawling social satire, tackling just about anything and everything about human nature and politics, with a great deal of humor and skill.<br />A passing spaceship picks up a manuscript in a bottle, detailing the adventures of an Earth astronaut who survived a crash landing on a planet where apes are the dominant species and man a mere animal.  The astronaut learns their language, and eventually demonstrates to them that he is a sentient creature, soon becoming the toast of the town in ape society.  But there are those who fear the amazing talking man, for the planet he represents and the link he proves to their own researches into the evolution of the ape.  Did man predate the ape?  Could he again become the dominant species on the planet?  And what should they do about it, in any event?<br />It's all framed as an adventure story, performing as both a drama and a farce.  It has more surprises than the reader might expect, the less said about which the better for those who intend to read it.  Even if you've seen the movies, you'll find something new and delightful in reading the book.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R21CTPD4ESAZMQ	0743400445	41312222	The Faith Trials, Vol. 1 (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, No. 21)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Gaining Faith	This is almost the only place to find even a mention of Faith in the book series, let alone to experience her as a character.  Which is a great pity, because there's a lot there to explore.<br />This book is merely a novelization of Faith's first episodes on the series, and as such will be nothing new to the fans.  The stories end at the point where Faith falls from grace, which hardly makes for a complete novel from her entry as a co-Slayer, but is at least a solid introduction to the confused psychological mess that is Faith for book series newcomers.<br />As a novelization, it isn't bad.  Laurence is able to give inner voice to the tormented Slayer, which is something the T.V. series of course could rarely do.<br />Who's it for?  Buffy and (especially) Faith fans, of course.  Not a book for newbies to start out on, but one well worth getting for those who are behind on their Slayer watching, or to get to later for other readers.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	RZOUMQJ9UNNQL	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Existential Angst	Rice's first novel is also her best.  She'll write one better, someday, when she finally nails her vampires' coffin lids shut and moves on.<br />Gentleman plantation owner Louis wants something more out of life  -  like, for it to go on longer than it does.  He suffers from terrible ennui, and an even greater desire to never die, even though life's pleasures aren't all that satisfying.  Enter Lestat, an elusive vampire who offers Louis what he can't resist:  eternal life.  Too bad it wasn't really all it was cracked-up to be.<br />This is an incredible book.  That it is a horror story is merely incidental.  What this novel is really about is man's search for meaning, and his desire to uncover his own origins.<br />At her best, Rice explores the question of immortality, and all it implies.  Her vampires are perfect spokespeople for the theme:  being immortal, they no longer have any need to procreate, and become stagnant, decadent and mad.  The more philosophical among them, like Louis, seek greater meaning  -  but none is to be found.  The vampire's greatest curse is boredom.  Some cure it through suicide; others, like Lestat, through the perversity of evil diversions.<br />Perhaps the greatest character creation Rice ever achieved, and one of the more interesting ones in all of literature, is Claudia, Lestat's crowning masterpiece of twisted ingenuity:  a pre-pubescent vampire, who psychologically matures even as her body is frozen perpetually in youth, and who becomes the most evil of creatures, in frustrated desire, as a result.<br />This book should be a text for modern philosophy classes.  It's really brilliant, in every way.  As a story, it reads incredibly well, but the whole is so much more than a mere story.<br />Don't miss this one.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R100RRBEJR6BYG	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	The Devil Is In the Details	Following the curse of Frank Herbert and Dune, Anne Rice doesn't know when to let sleeping vampires lie and keeps churning out sequels to her initial monster hit.  And each one is just a little less than the one that preceded it.<br />Vampire Queen Akasha, first of the immortals, awakens by the secret-revealing rock music of Lestat from her eons of slumber, to initiate the vampire-human apocalypse and implement a New World Order.  The pearls of immortality have for too long been cast before swine, and she wants to clean house.  Cleaving her Chosen Few to her bosom, her plan is to eliminate all lesser immortals and men, and rule over a carefully controlled and bred human world.  Needless to say, those not Chosen  -  from either species  -  have something to say about that, and even her own favorites rebel against her.  \\"How sharper than a serpent's tooth...\\"<br />It's a great plot, but the devil is in the details, and Rice dwells on unimportant details at the expense of the plot.  The climax is terribly anticlimactic for such an inordinate buildup, and the novel's structure is more than usually loose.  Her historical accuracy is hit-and-miss, though nothing to be concerned about.<br />The book's greatest problem is simply its length.  It actually climaxes halfway through  -  which is when the plot truly begins  -  leaving a long, long stretch of exposition to what the story is really all about.  And by the time it gets to where it's going, the reader's interest is drastically diminished.  The vampires are a loquacious lot, and keep repeating their points in a talky finale that then concludes all too abruptly.  The epilogue is actually better than the rest of the novel.<br />Rice's fans will certainly embrace Queen of the Damned, but her new readers will want to start with her stronger work  -  namely, the original Interview with the Vampire.<br />The movie really wasn't bad, considering this is an all but unfilmable novel as written.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R18MVRIZ6UU5PB	0451198484	743095882	The Inheritance	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Alfred Hitchcock Presents	This one reads like an episode of the old Alfred Hitchcock Hour.  It's not perfect  -  I'd have to comb it over a couple times to be sure all Savage's loose ends are really tied-up  -  but in the end it doesn't matter.  The Inheritance is a cleverly plotted and satisfying trip down decadent Murder-the-Heiress Way.<br />There's nothing new here, you've seen it all before  -  the Cinderella innocent who discovers she's suddenly a multi-millionaire, the greedy relatives who intend to horde the money for themselves, secret identities, hit-men, long-buried family secrets, and nobody being quite what they seem  -  but Savage is a deft writer, and makes it all fresh and fun.<br />But what I liked best about this piece  -  and what most reminds me of the old Hitchcock show  -  is its fiendishly entertaining (and surprising) epilogue, that evoked a genuine laugh along with its added finishing chill.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R3OWLL78ALTSER	0743400364	608150022	Tempted Champions (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Cassia the Vampire Vampire Slayer	One of the better plots in the Buffy books, thematically rich and well-realized, but problematic.<br />The new Big Bad in town is someone both Angel and Spike have faced before, and barely survived.  Angel met her in 1950s Nebraska, Spike in a bordello over a hundred years ago.  They know she's one nasty piece of work, and a vampire to boot.  What they don't know is that she was once Cassia, a Slayer.<br />Navarro does a fine job writing the characters, and gives a fair share of time to each one.  Most of the characters face a major temptation in the course of the story, and of course pass their tests.<br />The biggest problem with the book is the same that has plagued the series for the last couple of years:  too much attention divided equally among too many characters, putting Buffy in the back seat on her own show (or in her own book, as it were).  Time that would be better devoted to examining the two adversarial Slayers' relationship and motivations is cut short.  The buildup to the final confrontation is greatly diminished as a result, as is the payoff, which comes too abruptly.<br />More time should have been spent on the central temptations and conflicts in the story  -  namely, Buffy's to succumb to vampire immortality in order that she may enjoy a relationship with Angel, and Spike's to join Cassia's ranks and put his obsession with Buffy behind him forever.  Instead, that time is given to the subplot of Anya being offered her former place as a vengeance demon instead of living out a mortal life and love with Xander  -  which is a nice bit of character exploration, but diffuses where the central focus should be.<br />Buffy fans will certainly enjoy this one, but newbies to the series might want to take on one of the stronger titles first.	2002-04-10
US	39614869	R2LYCR796N4BZ4	0425128164	405259889	The Voice of the Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suffer the Children	Good, solid Koontz offering.  Rather like an Alfred Hitchcock episode, starring the kids.<br />Lonely schoolboy Colin makes a good friend in his new town:  Roy, an attractive, charming, confident boy, likeable in every way.  But Roy has this little problem.  He likes killing things.<br />Koontz delves the gray zones in this piece, and demonstrates the difficulty the young face in acquiring a good moral compass.  Colin's nature cannot allow him to fall down Roy's perverse path, yet he is all but alone in having to face-off the child psychopath in his rejected wrath  -  who will believe him?  And who will help?  As in some of his earlier period writing, the author seems almost to believe that good and evil are innate qualities at birth, though obviously anyone can cultivate either in the course of their development.<br />This is a good, well-written thriller.  Interesting and satisfying.  And not a little nerve-wracking.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R2GM2412JULK3A	0425104346	485108045	Darkfall	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Pitter-Patter, Pitter-Patter...	What's that running through my walls?  Rats?  Or  -  something worse...<br />Solid Koontz horror entry.  This is a bad-guys-doing-each-other-in story, which is usually an enjoyable plot (e.g., The Godfather).<br />Darkfall suffers slightly from excess padding, and was one of the author's first books to overly analyze the question of faith.  It's a little more stock than most of his work of the same period, but none the less enjoyable for that.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R1WDFSJJ2SXCUV	0451181379	835415534	The Door to December	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Invisible Enemy	That's strange  -  a number of rather unpleasant people seem to be dropping dead, of highly unnatural causes.  Their assailant leaves no fingerprints.  Or footprints.  Or eyewitness descriptions.  He  -  uh, &quot;appears&quot; to be invisible.  And there's no locked room he can't get in.  Dear me  -  what can the matter be?<br />Astute readers will figure out most of what's happening, early in the piece.  It doesn't matter.  It's a fun, wild ride, anyway.  Koontz has played with this theme before, but he handles it best in The Door to December.<br />For what it's worth, I know people who haven't read any Koontz but this, or this and one or two others, and each of them have mentioned to me how much they love this book.  I do, too.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R3O2C42S6WGG7W	0425147517	206722278	The Key to Midnight	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hitchcock In Japan	This is standard Koontz fare, elevated by wonderful local color in Kyoto.  It reads very much like a Cary Grant/Audrey Hepburn intrigue/love story, the sort of thing Stanley Donen or Alfred Hitchcock would direct:  the heroine is suffering from inexplicable amnesia, and the hero is a spy whose loyalties are in doubt.  There's just enough suggestion of kinky weirdness to float it through  -  a bizarre character with metal hands, for instance.  It's a bit long for what it is, but it satisfies.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R2N1N8XV4JJJZS	0446603392	975277616	Strange Highways	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Longer Isn't Better, But...	Koontz is far better at developing novel-length stories than short fiction.  (Stephen King, by contrast, is the exact opposite.)  For the revised reprint of &quot;Chase,&quot; alone, though, it's worth the price of the book.<br />The title novel/novella in the book is uneven, suffering from an excess of unexplained fantasy elements, which has plagued several of the author's more recent pieces.  It is, however, well-written and enjoyable.<br />The rest are much more of a grab-bag.  Most of Koontz's short stories aren't all that memorable.  There are exceptions.  His first sale, &quot;Kittens,&quot; is among its pages, and is much better than the author gives it credit for.  &quot;Down in the Darkness&quot; is eerily atmospheric and unsettling.  &quot;Miss Attilla the Hun&quot; displays Koontz's ability to wed humor with suspense, and is quite enjoyable, and &quot;Bruno&quot; is simply a comic delight.<br />Two of the pieces I would much have preferred to read as novels, and I'm sorry Koontz didn't develop them to that extent:  &quot;Hardshell&quot; and &quot;Trapped.&quot;  The former is a most unusual cops-and-robbers story, the latter one of Koontz's monster-out-of-the-lab offerings.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R1W2AR0L2EUMHT	0425153975	704752435	The Eyes of Darkness	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Trial Run	A woman is convinced her supposedly dead little boy is still alive.  He seems to be supernaturally manifesting himself around her, but she's sure he isn't a ghost.  Someone believes her, and helps her track the boy down.  Is the boy still alive?  And if he is, why would someone be holding him incommunicado?<br />Fairly good book, which suffers by comparison to the author's better-written Door to December.  Eyes of Darkness comes off rather as a dry-run toward the later title.  If you're going to read them both, you'll probably want to start with this one, or it will end up disappointing.  Door to December won't disappoint, even if you know what's coming.<br />Not Koontz's best, but worth a read when you've read his others.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R2OQ2BUBC490ES	0425121259	406917251	The Servants of Twilight	Books	4	1	1	N	N	My Little Angel  -  the Antichrist!	Anyone who liked the 1970s 20th Century Fox \\"Omen\\" movie series will love this book.  It's less overtly supernatural, but equally suspenseful and operating on the same subject.<br />A mad religious cult determines one woman's little boy to be the Antichrist.  The boy must die!  Needless to say, the boy's mother has a few things to say about that  -  but, since no one's listening and the cops can hardly watch her twenty-four-seven, she takes the little tyke and goes on the lam.  The cultists are rather persistent and sneaky, however, and won't exactly leave her or her son alone...<br />Nice, gritty little piece, which works primarily by use of shifting perspective and manipulation of audience expectations.  Koontz's religious cultists are not mere cypher villains, but credibly drawn and even often sympathetic characters.<br />You'd think, though, if they were going to reprint this book, they would have given it a better cover.<br />The T.V. movie isn't as good.  Read the book.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R76J6H4BYHCAE	0553582933	637222809	Winter Moon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Knock, Knock, Knockin' at Dead Man's Door	Considering this is a heavy revision/rewrite of one of the author's earlier, less-developed, short sci-fi originals, it's really not bad.<br />An old hermit in Montana experiences numerous odd phenomena around his remote home.  The animals don't act naturally.  They gaze at him with an unearthly intelligence  -  an analogy that proves too true for comfort, when he receives one unnatural nocturnal visitor too many, and his heart gives out with the shock.  A family seeking escape from the dangers of California jump at the chance to move, when they inherit his ranch house...and whatever it is that's been stalking him.<br />The novel is uneven.  Too much time is spent dwelling on the California family's history and woes, which would have been better dealt with in a backstory chapter upon their arrival in Montana than a number of chapters that diffuse the focus of the plot.<br />However, the Montana scenes all have atmosphere to spare, and there's a pervasive sense of menace throughout.  Fans of the old Outer Limits series will recognize elements from the second season &quot;Cry Of Silence&quot; episode, and should especially enjoy this book.<br />Not the author's best, not without flaws, but a good, creepy-crawly read.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R1FDHQYNZ2GXB9	0425132951	117838793	The House of Thunder	Books	2	3	4	N	N	My Mind Was Hijacked By Russian Spies!	One of Koontz's less-believable pieces, an early mind-control story that went overboard.  Like most of his lesser books, this one starts out well but spirals downhill, until the shocking revelation is merely mundane  -  if you believe it, which you probably won't.<br />This one comes off almost more as a soap opera spinoff than an espionage intriguer.  It really just doesn't work.  The characters aren't well-developed, the body of the novel is obviously padded.<br />Anyone looking for bare-bones Koontz enjoyment after exhausting his many better titles may still enjoy House of Thunder.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone but hardcore Koontz fans, though.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R3OQVNADO2440S	0843948507	749306061	The Traveling Vampire Show	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Vampire Vixens Sucked My Blood!	I'm not ordinarily that big a fan of Laymon, but this is a great book that exceeds its genre.  While it is a horror novel, it is far more a coming of age story focusing on a small number of teenage characters in 1963.  The entire story takes place in a single day and night in August, which turns out to be one of those critical days in the characters' maturation  -  not to mention a wild and hairy ride, not only for them, but many others in their town before it's out.<br />Laymon ordinarily turns on too much gore for the average reader, but here he shows admirable restraint  -  at least, until the nail-biting finale.  The majority of the book simply chronicles the small-town daily existence of three schoolfriends, and some of their family and acquaintances, into whose mundane lives arrives The Traveling Vampire Show.  The three are underage, and the mere fact that The Traveling Vampire Show is for adults only makes it all the more a siren's call to them:  its central attraction is \\"Valeria,\\" the one  -  the only  -  living vampire in the world; who, needless to say, doesn't wear much, and promises to take off more.<br />Laymon's style is humorous and lively, and quite engaging.  The only flaw with the book is that it wraps-up too quickly, not tying all the various story strands together that it has brought into play.  It could have used an epilogue.  There are some fascinating characters developed who simply disappear at the end of the story, aren't mentioned again, or who undergo a dramatic change that is dealt with in a mere sentence, when more space than that is really required for full satisfaction.<br />Still, this is a wonderful roller-coaster ride of a book, with universal appeal in its treatment of the central characters.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	R35CLDWO4G3JU1	0425118703	781279187	Midnight	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tune Out, Jack In, Drop Dead	Koontz views the Computer Culture in much the same way the FBI viewed the Drug Culture of the 1960s and '70s.  He may be a little overly alarmist, but the speculation is not entirely without merit, and he drives his point home well.<br />A mad Utopian has a plan for saving humanity from itself.  He's going to make humans as rational as computers  -  by making them computers.  As if that plan isn't off-base enough, the experimental town of Midnight Cove is demonstrating that his human computer virus has a few more bugs in it than he thought...<br />This book was the better-written inspiration for the author's later Christopher Snow novels.  Like the Snow novels, it works best when hewing to a more science-fictional vein than a fantasy one, but veers a little over the edge from time to time.<br />I didn't care for it that much when it first came out, but on a re-read a couple years ago I found it to be much cleverer and satisfying than I remembered.  It suffers from way too much padding in the beginning, but is one of Koontz's better books.	2002-04-09
US	39614869	RAUFS0FOUH0L5	0425130711	680854800	Cold Fire	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Weak, But Readable	This is one of the harder Koontz books to review. As others have noted, it starts out well and then goes nowhere...slowly. The payoff is inadequate, for the buildup.<br />As usual, Koontz's characters carry it off, but just barely. The problem is that he sets up too many wonderful possibilities, and out of all of them decides to choose the most prosaic, unlikely, and dissatisfying ending.<br />It's not a bad book, just a disappointing one from someone as gifted as Koontz. Don't start out with this title. Work your way back to it, after reading his better titles and seeing why he became a bestseller. If the basic story idea of this one sounds appealing to you, read Strangers instead  -  it's quite similar, but much, much better.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R3HEGFSQL6IPCY	0425136981	121362210	Shadowfires	Books	4	1	1	N	N	When the Dead Don't Stay Buried	I read this one when it came out under Koontz's \\"Leigh Nichols\\" pseudonym - I knew it was him before he admitted it, and this was the title I figured it out on.<br />Government research scientist and all-around bad kind of control-freak guy Erik Leben gets his nasty self hit by a car while stalking his soon-to-be ex-wife. He gets squashed flatter than a June bug under a clutterboot, but for some reason his body just won't stay in the morgue. And death hasn't improved his nasty disposition, one little bit...<br />This one combines a lot of Koontz's better story elements in a pretty gripping book. I won't say too much about it, because getting there is half the fun. He's done it better in subsequent books, but that doesn't make Shadowfires any less enjoyable a read.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	RTM8LCIEW6AZG	0553581473	818356783	The King of the Sun	Books	3	0	1	N	N	E.T. Phone Homicide	'Fess up, Koontz!  You wrote this!<br />A female homicide detective is led a merry dance down Serial Killer Road, by an ex-mental patient who may or may not be an extraterrestrial.  (Think Killer K-Pax, and you've got the idea.)<br />This is a great book, with a classic cop-out ending.  I'd give it more stars, if it didn't cheese its way out of having to explain anything.<br />Still, it's a good read, especially for anyone who has ever studied UFOlogy.  McFedries (an admitted pseudonym for a successful California writer, who will one day reveal himself to be Dean Koontz) uses the plot as an excuse to discuss the history and some of the better cases of the subject.  His point seems to be that obviously E.T. has been around us for some time, and may even interact with some of the local populace, but for everyone's sake it is better to pretend otherwise.<br />Coulda/shoulda been done better, but could very easily have been done worse.  Worth the time, if you've got an interest in the subject of UFOs and alien contact.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R3OVNCYRPC0N52	9990635366	515290722	Fiends	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Outer Limits in a Book	This Farris piece reads like an episode of The Outer Limits.<br />Things best left undisturbed become disturbed, bringing with them the usual nastinesses such things do.  In this case, That Best Left Alone is the &quot;Huldefolk,&quot; an ancient offshoot race of man that lives in the darkness and the cold.  Some fool at the turn of the century woke one up, and it's been haunting the region ever since, trying to seduce lonely wayfarers into its domain to help it ring the alarm clock for the rest of its sleeping kind  -  which, needless to say, are rather inimical to their human cousins.<br />Fiends is a straightforward horror story, and one of Farris' better entries in the genre.  The characters are very real and appealing, the Huldefolk genuinely gruesome and pretty frightening.  For whatever reason, Farris set the central story in the 1970s, and writes the period well.<br />This book is long overdue for reprint.  Hopefully, Farris' return to the field with his Fury sequels will bring it back.  In the meantime, try and dig-up a copy.<br />But don't dig up any Huldefolk.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R1D0JJK8X8DLR4	0312872151	74014692	The Fury and the Terror	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Disturbing Implications	Written many months before September 11, Farris credibly outlined a sinister government scenario in this book to hoax just such a terror-attack for political purposes. If for no other reason, this semi-sequel to The Fury is worth consideration.<br />This book would have succeeded better on its own than as a sequel to The Fury, but then it probably wouldn't have gotten as many readers, either. The continuing characters aren't really continuing characters, and their having any connection to those from the first book is frankly unimportant. In fact, it's partly a sequel to Farris' Son of the Endless Night, as well, with an odd, unnecessary, and slightly confusing diversionary little subplot concerning an Earthbound race of suggested-to-be extraterrestrials, who really deserve a separate book of their own.<br />This isn't Farris' best book, but it is still Farris, which means it's good, and worth reading.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R2V4N7DNXC5PS	051513175X	59736501	The Descent	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Journey to the Center of the Girth	This is a great, sprawling, epic mess of a book, with a great deal to recommend it even though it makes no sense as a whole. It bites off way more than it can comfortably chew, its reach far exceeding its grasp. There's enough material in here for at least a dozen different books, but it fails as a unified piece.<br />A subterranean race of demon-people, notorious for abducting their surface-dwelling homo sapiens cousins for breeding and slavery, become detected in the modern age and all but wiped out in a massive, worldwide war. Some of them are still down there, though, and surface industrialists are anxious to begin exploiting the underground resources once protected by the subterraneans. An expedition below is mounted, and lots of unpleasantness ensues.<br />The problem with this book is that it is over-ambitious, under-researched, disjointed, inconsistent, and so episodic it is difficult to follow. If the reader can take the book not as a novel, but as a series of loosely connected short stories centered around a basic theme, he might enjoy The Descent immensely. It is good reading, just flawed for all the aforementioned reasons.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R219E5RMOQRSIR	0425158594	545448747	Demon Seed	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Demon Rewrite	Koontz wussied-out, when he completely rewrote his wonderful 1973 novel of the same name into this Politically-Correctified \\"update.\\"<br />The original I would give at least four stars, and if you can find it anywhere don't miss out.  It suffered slightly from some over-science-fictioney terminology, but its basic story of a mad supercomputer tyrannizing a captive woman for rape and attempted reproduction had real raw power and a driving edge.  It was the first book of Koontz's I ever read, and I still pull it off the shelf now and again for another go.  It's still one of my favorites.<br />The rewrite turns the supercomputer into a sociopathic fourteen-year-old voyeur (a potentially interesting observation on artificial intelligence, but it doesn't work here), and the hapless victim into a wisecracking Rambo, completely ruining everything that initially made the story such a winner.  Koontz used to write much more realistic characters, which is what made his early fiction so powerful.  Today, he too often idealizes his characters to pander to a Yuppie audience, and it frequently  -  as it does here  -  undermines the credibility of his work.<br />The 1977 MGM film version, starring Julie Christie, differs from both Koontz versions (it's closer to the first), but is quite good.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R21HMHDFM28UEF	0425124347	448060127	The Bad Place	Books	2	3	4	N	N	It Is, Indeed	We were bad. So Koontz put us in this place.<br />This is one of several Koontz entries that reads wonderfully, right up until he gives us the explanation for what the cause of the inexplicable paranormal phenomenon is. He stretched real hard, for this one. On his better days, he may try credibility to the point of teetering, but here he just falls right off the edge. More than one of his books from this period does the same thing.<br />On the plus side, the characters are quite well-developed and generally interesting, as they usually are with Koontz  -  Thomas Dakota, a Downs Syndrome sufferer, is especially appealing.  The book's problem is ultimately just throwing reality out the window and going just a little too far into The Twilight Zone, a habit Koontz has fallen more frequently into in recent offerings.<br />If the author's endings for Lightning, Dragon Tears or From the Corner of His Eye didn't bother you, you'll love this book. If any one of them put you off, this one will, too.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R1KPB0596EMK8Z	0812552636	686862845	Dragonfly	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Southern Inhospitality	When Farris writes straight thrillers, they're pretty gritty.  This is one of his grittiest.<br />A CIA adventurer, recovering from having bitten off more than he could chew, finds himself falling in love with a besieged heiress.  The usual cast of stock Southern baddies have their own agendas for the heiress' money  -  but, of course, there's this little problem of getting her out of the way, first.<br />Nothing you haven't read or seen before, but Farris writes it splendidly.  This one's mostly in the Phillip Marlowe mold, a crime novel set in a decaying Southern manse as opposed to the streets of the city.  If you like that kind of thing, jump on in.  The water's fine.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R12MBW6BQH2WLE	0312877315	604567365	The Fury	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Furious Phenomena	John Farris' breakthrough bestseller holds up well, after all these years.  It spawned a minor cottage industry in the film business, especially, with the \\"evil government psychic projects\\" plot.  Scanners and Firestarter, and their numerous clones and offspring, were inspired by this piece.  It was ahead of its time in discussing then-unknown true-life psychic spying programs, which have since been written about in quite some detail  -  though discussing nothing quite like what happens in this book.<br />Robin and Gillian are twins separated at pre-birth, reincarnated souls meant to grow up together who instead are growing up separately.  Robin is the more powerful of the two, and comes to the attention of MORG, a nefarious super-secret government agency that attempts to murder Robin's CIA assassin father in order to more fully take Robin under their wing.  Robin's father is mighty ticked-off about all this, and wages a private little mini-war with MORG head Childermass to get his son back.  In the meantime, promising newcomer Gillian has also come to MORG's attention  -  and Robin's father's, as well, who wants to use her to locate his sequestered son.<br />Definitely one of Farris' best.  Even though Farris also wrote the screenplay to the stylish Brian DePalma movie, the film is weak compared to its original source material.	2002-04-07
US	39614869	R5GKUMG1KONRW	0425142485	111594650	The Funhouse	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Killer Carnies Come to Town	The story has it that Koontz novelized this book (under the pen-name \\"Owen West\\") from the Larry Block screenplay to the Tobe Hooper movie, but it's simply far too developed and far too good to be one man's novelization of another man's screenplay.  One of Koontz's favorite themes is carny life (he wrote of it again later in Twilight Eyes), and he has a penchant for playing with pseudonyms.  The Funhouse came out the same year Koontz's first breakthrough book, Whispers, was published, and \\"Owen West's\\" Funhouse novelization got more T.V. advertising (something I never saw before and haven't seen since) than the movie itself did.  Either Larry Block streamline-adapted Koontz's original novel, or Tobe Hooper altered it and Koontz didn't like it so he had his name removed, but I'm reasonably certain The Funhouse originated as a Koontz novel, not a movie, whatever story Koontz might spread around to the contrary.<br />And even if I'm wrong, it doesn't matter.  This is one of Koontz's best books, whatever he may think of it himself.  Its only problem is that the finale is a tad bit abrupt for the amount of buildup beforehand.  An epilogue would have helped.<br />Aside from that, this story of a father-and-son pair of killer carnies out for some personalized revenge is one of Koontz's best developed novels, with some of his most real characters  -  not his most appealing, mind, but his most real.  The plot is solid, the suspense mounts steadily, the dialogue typically crackles, and the atmosphere is clammy and intense.  It's brisk and violent, with enough religious hysteria and monstrous murder to wake Alfred Hitchcock from the grave.<br />Don't let anything the naysayers, or even Koontz himself, might say about this one deter you.  If you want a tense and nasty thriller that'll keep you turning the pages and biting your nails, this is the book you're looking for.<br />By the way, the movie has its differences, but it's pretty good, too.	2002-04-06
US	39614869	R2LL6SUITJOWU0	0425098605	525781628	The Vision	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sinister Psychic Research	Brisk, easy, satisfying early Koontz thriller, that suffers only from stuffing too much paranormal phenomena into too few pages.  It's a little over-the-top at spots, but it's a cleverly plotted murder mystery, sleek and fast.<br />A gifted psychic assists local police in tracking down serial killers.  After one is shot dead, his spirit seems to be living on in someone else.  Or is it?  The psychic is suddenly plagued by odd paranormal goings-on, that may be the work of some kind of diabolical ghost, another psychic, or perhaps even herself.  Sorting it all out is the fun of the book.<br />Anyone into psyhic research will especially have a good time with this one.  Koontz discusses psychic detectives and phenomena with a pretty good degree of accuracy.  He even has an inside joke or two, in the book's pages.  The deceased serial killer is named \\"Lingard,\\" and the psychic studies an occult book by Colin Wilson  -  one of Wilson's early novels, about a sex-killer, was named Lingard.<br />Not Koontz's best, but well worth the couple of hours you'll kill reading it.	2002-04-06
US	39614869	R1DYOGIVD7515J	0312981201	789136735	Fatalis: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Claws	Think Jaws with paws, and you've pretty much got the idea of this one.  It's an old-fashioned 1970s style animal-monster-on-the loose story, though Fatalis is a little better than its genre.<br />The characters are stock, but Rovin ponders several interesting subjects during the story, such as cryogenic preservation, the nature of instinct, ecological balance, the role of evolution and the question of extinction of species.  Anyone interested in anthropology and American Indian lore will discover a lot of material on the Chumash tribe.<br />Rovin's natural history of the cats is fascinating.  Since no one's ever seen what a saber-tooth &quot;tiger&quot; really looks like, Rovin makes the cats his own.  They're not really tigers, but described something more like outsize-incisored wildcats, and they behave more like a pride of lions.  The explanation for their being around is a little hard to swallow, and once or twice they pull some tricks it's difficult to imagine any kind of big cat even attempting, but the author makes it credible enough to enjoy the ride.<br />This is a very fast, very easy read, and very enjoyable as well.	2002-04-06
US	39614869	R301YXIF6Y6NR6	0425098648	469342893	Night Chills	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Seedy	You can tell this is an earlier Koontz novel, though most of his early novels are much better streamlined.<br />The plot is good enough, and anymore, pretty recognizable to Koontz fans:  the government has a chemical mind control project it is clandestinely testing out on a small isolated town.  At least one of the experimenters is a little off his nut, and takes advantage of the opportunity to perform a few rapes  -  and murders.<br />It took me literally years to finish this book.  Night Chills was the first Koontz I read that failed to grab my attention and hold it.  When I did finally read the entire thing through, I was disappointed mostly because the book is pornographically seedy, without much redeeming value.  That, and the heroes aren't exactly heroic.  There's a vigilante scene that is as pointless as the voyeuristic rapes, and undercuts the supposed virtue of those perpetrating it.<br />I understand this book was actually blacklisted from some public schools, no doubt for its content.  I wouldn't ban it, but I wouldn't recommend it.  Koontz has written better.  The more recent False Memory, for instance, contains largely the same plot and even a couple of the same scenes, still as voyeuristic, but not so bad they make you want to take a shower.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	RU9R7LV0AWFCY	0425119920	742127435	Strangers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;Strangers In the Night...&quot;	Unquestionably one of Koontz's masterworks.<br />A number of people, from all over the country and who have no seeming connection to each other, begin suffering many of the same debilitating symptoms:  inability to sleep, tortured dreams, panic attacks; and some of them seem to be followed around by mysterious Men In Black.  Others still seem to be developing superhuman powers.  One such sufferer sees the picture of another and contacts him, and they start piecing together what their problem is.  They begin having recollections of suppressed memories, find the others undergoing the same psychic effects...and make an earth-shattering discovery.<br />Superbly written, the book is overlong and padded with a few unnecessary scenes.  It also dwells a bit much on the nature of faith, to the point of being a little preachy.  But it is undeniably a superior work, carefully plotted, quite suspenseful, and deeply involving.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R2G1EJMNZYEUBC	042518109X	567976695	Whispers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hitchcock, Anyone?	Alfred Hitchcock purportedly bought the film rights to Whispers, but died before being able to do anything with it.  I find that story easy to believe, since I thought of Psycho the entire time I was reading it.  Koontz set out to write a Freudian horror story, and succeeded.<br />Hilary Thomas has a stalker who simply won't go away  -  even after she kills him.  Is he undead?  A ghost?  Whatever he is, he's lethal.  A cop assigned to the case helps her find out what's going on, so it can be brought to a halt.<br />Koontz has played with the returning dead menace in other books, but this was the one in which he did it best, probably because it was fresh.  The only flaw in the book is that several early scenes with the detective and his closest police buddy are essentially unnecessary, and go on too long.  Aside from that, it's extremely cleverly plotted, with several surprising twists and turns along the way.  The suspense is steady.<br />There's a Canadian film version starring Victoria Tennant and Chris Sarandon that is pretty good, but the book is much more satisfying.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R3C6BKOKPK5V1H	0425140032	382458927	Dragon Tears	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Uh-h-h...No	Sometimes I think Koontz is just pressed to get something done on a deadline, and falls back on the tried-and-true to make it on time.  But, he has to create new incredible explanations for the impossible weirdnesses going on in his story, and...well, now and then he comes up a-cropper.<br />This one builds fairly nicely, but ultimately disappoints because of lack of credibility.  Mind you, Koontz often has pretty hard-to-believe situations or explanations, but this is one of his weaker ones, and how the protagonists find it out isn't at all credible, either.<br />Substandard Koontz.  Many of the author's books from this period (late '80s, early '90s) weren't very good.  This is definitely one of them.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R2AN0K73QHXRLC	042511984X	532520006	The Face of Fear	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Towering Fear	One of Dean's cleverest  -  and most suspenseful  -  straight thrillers.  And one it's hard to say too much about, without giving away the game.<br />A psychic helping the police out on a difficult serial-rapist case finds himself, and his girlfriend, the target of attempted murder by the culprit.  The rapist/murderer manages to isolate the pair in an empty skyscraper over the holidays, and plays an elusive cat-and-mouse game with them  -  to the death.<br />This one shoots out of a gun, like most of Koontz's early works, and doesn't let up for a second.  It's a fast, easy, involving read.  Koontz's style is minimalistic, telling virtually the entire story through dialogue and simply drawn action, shifting character perspective inventively to keep the reader guessing who the guilty party is.  And even once that's known, he manages to slip in an extra surprise or two.<br />This was made into a very good T.V. movie with Lee Horsley and Pam Dawber, which suffers in comparison to the novel due to the fact that it has to prematurely show what the book doesn't.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R823JLY0Q4ROC	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetic Satirical Parody	It's very hard to describe this book.  On the surface, it's Koontz's usual guy-and-gal on the run from evil government goons story.  But this one is written in such a way that it can be taken as a parody  -  and yet it sometimes rises almost to epic poetry.  It's darkly comedic, and breaks free of Koontz's standard melodrama formula in one important regard  -  where the virtuous may be rewarded, the evil go on to fight another day, and are bizarrely appealing, in a genuinely funny, though sick and twisted fashion.<br />It's overwritten, as many of the author's books are, but this is a truly great book by Koontz.  Dark Rivers of the Heart is the first book I've seen Koontz really spread his wings and fly with, and it's a tremendous joy to experience.  He made much the same kind of attempt with the recent From the Corner of His Eye, which didn't work, but both books at least show Koontz has unexplored perspectives he's willing to work on sharing with his readers.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R1T3FX52KLMA3D	0425100650	642390946	Twilight Eyes	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Goblins Are Among Us!	From the start, Koontz grabs the reader with intense action and an uncertain anti-hero - is he a psychotic killer, or are his terrifying visions not hallucinations? He sometimes sees people that aren't...people. They're some kind of \\"goblins\\" - inhuman creatures, masquerading as men. And when he sees them, he doesn't take them down for the count. He takes them out. This potentially alarming young man ends up hiding-out at a carnival, where he discovers he isn't the only one who sees such things. He and his new carnie friends embark on a search to find out just what the goblins really are - and engage in a private little war with them.<br />This book is more interesting in its moral ambivalence than most of Koontz's work. His human protagonists and antagonists are slipperier, grayer around the edges, uniting against a greater outside threat - and sometimes not. There's a great deal of intrigue, and no one is quite what they seem.<br />The book has one flaw, which is that the entire second half goes on too long, and is essentially a sequel to the first half rather than a continuation. However, one can look at that as getting two Koontz books, for the price of one!	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R3DVZVPVBESPWP	0425144429	520292898	Mr. Murder	Books	5	1	3	N	N	My Evil Twin Did It!	I resisted this one for some time, because too many bestselling authors were writing the diabolical doppelganger story at the same time  -  namely Stephen King (The Dark Half) and Peter Straub (Mr. X).  But I was more than pleasantly surprised to discover that Koontz made the theme his own in a clever and satisfying way.<br />This can best be described as a better fleshed-out version of Koontz's earlier Shadowfires, and has some surface similarities to Whispers, as well.  But Mr. Murder boldly goes into new territory, believably enough that the usual Koontz roller-coaster ride is more than usually intensified.<br />Some of the other reviewers have unfortunately given spoilers of the clever plot, but I won't repeat them in case you haven't seen them yet.  Koontz is good enough at misdirection to keep you guessing for quite a while before spilling the beans as to what exactly is going on, and it's an enjoyable experience getting there.<br />The only real flaw with this book is that the early suspicions cast on the protagonist are too heavy-handed, and go on too long.  But that's a minor problem in a book this well-written.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R20G2TR1JGLOVO	0425115801	134454761	Lightning	Books	1	15	33	N	N	Cinderella Koontz	This book rates the one star solely for Koontz's typically appealing characters.<br />At his worst, Koontz writes real people as fairy-tale characters, and this was the book that started that unfortunate trend. It isn't uncommon for him to have a Cinderella character in his pages, or even sometimes two - people who start out impoverished, and become rich and/or famous. In Lightning, Koontz really pushes the envelope. Everyone in it comes from awful childhoods and rises to impossibly successful ends. Two of the main characters, including the heroine, start in an abusive orphanage, and end up becoming a nationally famous comedienne and movie star, and a bestselling novelist. Their charted road of progress toward these unbelievable ends is, well...unbelievable. To the point where it is often laugh-out-loud funny. Since the book is not intended to be a comedy, this can safely be said not to be a good thing.<br />Additionally, the plot is more than usually extravagant and problematic  -  its outlook on WWII, especially, simplistic and unrealistic  -  and the action even more over-the-top than Koontz generally attempts, and it all really doesn't quite come off.<br />For all their gross improbability, the characters are at least as likeable as any found in the author's other books, and those looking for Koontz's satisfying easy-read thriller style won't be disappointed, either.<br />If you want a Disney fantasy, this is the book for you. If you want something a little more challenging, try one of Dean's many, many better books.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	R1JK38PU53NWD3	0553582925	199284738	Tick Tock	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good, Silly Fun	If you're a fan of the Saturday morning Jackie Chan cartoon  -  and I am  -  you'll love this really silly, over-the-top cartoon of a book.  I think Koontz had simply written so many of the same variety formula thrillers, that he just couldn't resist sending himself up.<br />Pretty well nothing in this book is believable, but it isn't intended to be.  It's a single-night odyssey adventure of oddball characters fleeing from an indestructible, growing puppet-killer-thingie, something like an alien voodoo doll.  It's Koontz's usual boy-meets-girl flee-the-evil story, done as an absurdist comedy.  The lead characters are a Vietnamese crime novelist (you thought I was kidding with the Jackie Chan reference, right?), some of his assorted off-the-wall relatives, and a millionaire heiress who may or may not be quite human, herself.<br />It's not as smooth as I think Koontz intended it to be, nor that much of a laugh riot, but it's pretty amusing.  Koontz's fans will enjoy it most, since it parodies his own work, but even those who don't usually read this author might get a kick out of it  -  if they're in the mood for this sort of thing.	2002-04-04
US	39614869	ROCF5X9ZKXI4Q	0380806444	117704228	The Fourth World	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Viva Zapatista!	Anyone who is into UFOlogy will recognize the 1970s disinformation program that was the inspiration for this book, but I won't spoil it for those who aren't in the know.<br />In the near-future (twenty, twenty-five years), Virtual Reality news is all the new \\"sensation\\" - reporters are \\"observers,\\" fitted with emotional sensor jacks that relay their feelings to the Internet as well as what they see and hear. The protagonist of the story witnesses the brutal slaying of Zapatista farmers, in full view of a military base which does nothing to stop it, and is initiated into the realm of the rebel when NewsReal refuses to transmit his recordings of the event.<br />Hooking-up with a disenfranchised debutante, the two become lovers and underground resistance members. Without a compass to guide them in the murky waters of illegal movements, they swiftly become compromised without knowing it. A powerful agenda is afoot, and the former reporter and subversive socialite inadvertently find themselves serving instead of fighting it.<br />But the fun still isn't over: no sooner do our heroes have a grasp on the situation, than an even more alarming development occurs.<br />Wonderful intrigue, likeable characters, and a complex and ever-changing plot keep this book moving steadily along. Its only real problem is a slow middle that delves too much on a not-very-believable future Texas, which is the only area of the book that suffers from excess science-fiction-itis. The \\"virtual reality\\" angle mercifully is never hit so hard over the head that it overpowers the drama of the piece, and the examination of artificial intelligence is quite interesting and well-done.<br />For the record, I'm still betting - author picture in the back of the book notwithstanding - that Dennis Danvers is really Dean Koontz.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R23GS5M3PA83QQ	0553580221	284106836	False Memory	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Manchurian Memories	Anyone familiar with The Manchurian Candidate has a leg-up on this book, from the start.  It's not giving anything away to say so, because the book itself makes it pretty apparent early on.<br />This is essentially the much better version of Koontz's earlier Night Chills.  A number of people in a given area begin displaying bizarre, atypical, destructive behavior.  Of course, they all have something in common.  That something is what the hero of the piece has to discover  -  and put an end to.<br />A very involving read, though it has a shaky beginning.  Koontz's characters, especially his psychopathic villain, are typically well-drawn.  There are some nice comic touches, throughout.<br />This is one of Koontz's few good books of the last several years.  Nothing new, really, but at least he's back in the saddle with this one, and not exploring quasi-scientific metaphysics.  False Memory is just a good, straightforward Koontz thriller.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R1R4TDXFIR6WZ8	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Title Says It All	Hitchcock would have loved this one.  It's a non-stop, nail-biting white-knuckler.<br />A woman staying with new friends over the holidays wakes up to find everyone she's staying with murdered  -  and the killer still in the house.  She ends up hiding out in his van and following him home, putting two and two together about a missing young girl and hoping to be of some assistance.  Needless to say, our not-so-friendly neighbor hood eventually detects her, and the nastiness gets nastier.<br />Somewhat contrived, but workably so.  The heroine and the little girl are fabulous characters you can care a great deal for  -  but when has Koontz not provided at least that, even in his weakest efforts?<br />The T.V. miniseries is quite good, too.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R2LXCDEEGB730M	0553582941	191153164	Sole Survivor	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fly Me to the Twilight Zone	Passable Koontz, but he's written better.<br />Koontz's less impressive efforts fall short because his explanations for whatever bizarre phenomena are occurring in his stories are unconvincing or forced, and such is the case here.  I won't spoil it, because Sole Survivor is still worth a read, after you've gone through Koontz's better books and are still hungry for more.<br />What's good:  as always, the characters.  Koontz's protagonist characters are always sympathetic, and his psychopaths the most credible in literature.  The action is steady, but gets off to a slow start.<br />What's not so good:  the slow start, for one thing.  Too much time is spent discussing the searching behavior syndrome of survivors, which is interesting but goes on too long.  And the explanation for what's behind the bizarre phenomena driving the story is one of Koontz's weaker attempts.  He's done better at the same kind of thing in previous books  -  which I won't list, because I don't want to give anything away.<br />Still, a good read.  It doesn't disappoint.  The miniseries was pretty good, too.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	RZIXE8CGHGLAT	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	1	35	49	N	N	God Bless Us, Every One!	I swear, some day Koontz is going to end a story with a boy on crutches raising a Christmas toast, crying, \\"God bless us, every one!\\"<br />I'm a long-time Koontz fan  -  I started with his original Demon Seed, bought at a 7-11 in '73  -  and it always pains me to have to pan him.  He's been off his game since Lightning, back in '88, only rarely anymore writing up to his former glory.  His characters have gone from naively charming to simply naive, and his melodrama is more often comedic than not.  It's like he's regressing into a second or third childhood, or something.  But he rarely writes for adults, anymore.<br />What's really tragic about this one is that the first seven hundred pages are wonderfully written.  There are some flaws, the most notable being that the wunderkind blind hero is just too good to be true  -  he's not quite as bad as a one-legged eyeless leper in a wheelchair dragging himself through a snowstorm, crying, \\"It's all right, mama!  I will bite through the trees with my teeth, that you and papa shall have enough firewood!\\" but he's pretty close.<br />But despite that, for those first, long, involved seven hundred pages, you're really hooked.  And then  -  well, in pretty much one sentence, the whole thing comes a-tumblin' down like a cheap house of cards.  And exactly at the moment that I found myself saying, \\"Well, at least he actually managed to write a book without a dog in it,\\" in trotted the adorable labrador.<br />Cut Dean some slack.  He's in some funky slump.  We'll let him work it out.<br />Meanwhile, read any number of his other truly fabulous past titles  -  Phantoms, Watchers, Whispers, The Face of Fear  -  almost anything pre-1988.  And if you want one of his better post-'88 titles, try Dark Rivers of the Heart or Mr. Murder.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R1XG72UUWT0LRV	0425107469	50861192	Watchers	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Who's That Doggin' My Tail...?	Koontz's own personal favorite, and it's easy to see why.  Everything now recognizable as his trademarks are evident in it.<br />Even if you hate Koontz's adorable dogs  -  which would only be due to the drastic overkill usage of them in his books  -  you'll love Einstein, the genius golden labrador, who mostly carries this story.  Einstein escapes from a government weapons lab, and hooks-up with an old war vet and his soon-to-be girlfriend, who piece together his history with a little help from Einstein, himself.  Einstein is the scout half of a telepathic search-and-destroy animal team.  The \\"Other\\" half is a mutant killer baboon, jealous of his \\"brother\\" Einstein's better looks and social skills.<br />The Other wants Einstein's hide.  The government wants its expensive search-and-destroy project back.  Einstein just wants to be free of them all.  The heroes want not to get killed by all the interested parties after Einstein.<br />What's not to love?<br />The best movie version of this  -  there are several, none of them that good  -  is actually Watchers 2.  But read the book first.  It really is Dean at his best.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R3E6F85D8RJSUG	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Surfboards At Midnight	Koontz must have re-read his own horrorshow, Midnight, after polishing-off his quirkily enjoyable Ticktock, and ended up splicing the two together in Seize the Night.<br />It's Wells' Island of Dr. Moreau, as performed by surfer dropout versions of the cast of Buffy the Vampire Slayer:  the characters are hip and flip, the situations nightmarish.  An odd mix, to be sure, but Koontz is up to the task in this uneven surfboard curler.<br />The one real flaw in the Christopher Snow books is that they're all but plotless.  They're more like an ongoing odyssey around a central theme.  You can expect a lot of eerie, bloodthirsty action enacted by a wild variety of characters, and a conclusion to whatever is established as the immediate threat, but it's all rather random and aimless.  Given that this is supposed to be the second book in an eventual trilogy, perhaps Koontz is intending to wrap things up in a more thorough sense along the way.  But for the moment, nothing ends up explained, just hinted at.<br />In the meantime, it's Koontz, it's good fun.  If you like the author, Seize the Night won't disappoint.  And if you don't, well, you have a pretty good idea the sort of thing it is and can decide for yourself whether it's your cup of tea.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R2RIH9E1LBOEE8	0425181103	21671792	Phantoms	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Where'd Everybody Go?	If not Koontz's best, at least in his top five, and my personal favorite.  I've read this one so many times I've lost count, and I enjoy it every bit as much each time.<br />A doctor and her kid sister return to the doctor's mountain resort community to find everybody in town missing  -  sort of.  Some of them are still there, but in pieces.  Or crushed.  Something seems to be watching from the shadows.  Someone is singing in the sewers.  The nearest town sheriff and his men find scrawled on the mirror of a locked and empty bathroom the names \\"Timothy Flyte,\\" and \\"The Ancient Enemy.\\"<br />And the book is off to the races.<br />The menace and dread in this book are palpable and unrelenting.  It's essentially a sci-fi murder mystery, with an entire town the victim of...something.  Dean's writing is at its best.  The story is a great, sprawling epic, centered on one tiny mountain town.  The less said about it the better, for those who haven't yet had the pleasure of reading this great horror classic.<br />The movie is actually much better than other reviewers have given it credit for.  It's nowhere near as involved as the book, but it really couldn't be, and in some ways it improves on the original source material (Koontz produced and wrote the screenplay himself).  But if the movie put you off, you'll still enjoy the book.  And if you liked it, you'll probably like the book even more.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	RUVJMC46D5L0F	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	1	6	11	N	N	Bury It!	Merciful Zeus! Let no innocent excavate Excavation! Bury the path to its covers for eternity with flaming lava spouted from Mount Olympus! Cast this book into the deepest fathoms beneath the mighty Kraken's lair! Seal it forever in grim Hades' darkest vault! Or mercifully blind the good populace of Athens like King Oedipus, that their eyes may never accidentally transgress all that is holy and fall upon these pages, ever after to be haunted by the foul Furies that plague the House of Agamemnon!<br />Or at least warn them, Zeus, warn them that this book is a nine-year-old's crayon novelization of the Richard Chamberlain movie version of King Solomon's Mines!<br />Please, Zeus, please! I beg you, on my knees!<br />Never mind, Zeus. I'll do it for you.<br />Seriously, this book is so badly researched and inconsistent, it makes Marvel comic books read like Classics Illustrated.  Even a lower-I.Q. junior high school student wouldn't believe any of it.  Save your money.	2002-04-03
US	39614869	R1T3JQO17OMC0U	0743418921	368820126	Spike and Dru: Pretty Maids All in a Row (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Summer of '42, for Spike and Dru	\\"Hello, young lovers, wherever you roar...!\\"<br />Ambitious, overlong epic fantasy adventure novel, that hits and misses.  Spike and Dru are well-written, but psychopaths don't generally work as protagonists unless the other characters in the story are more abominable than they are (e.g., The Godfather).  The plot is terribly thin for 353 pages, consisting of nothing, really, but an ongoing, globe-hopping odyssey of war and murder.  The majority of the characters are barely introduced before they are dispatched, their sole reason for existing being to provide fodder for Spike and Dru.  There's far too much action, and too many characters.  The story has all but no focus at all, just a scenario consisting of a list of people to be killed.<br />However, fans of the characters won't be disappointed, and even non-Buffy readers/watchers who like this kind of thing will have a good time with it.  I'd recommend it most for anybody who likes their characters twisted, and their action hot and heavy.	2002-03-30
US	39614869	RQCUL82KRJPN7	0743400410	223411632	Doomsday Deck (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Kali Vs. Buffy  -  Slayer Decked!	Gallagher's least-developed Buffy book, but not bad.  It shoots out of a gun and rips right through, but everything seems to happen out of the blue without any kind of buildup.  It's as light as popcorn and just as satisfying, but hey, sometimes you're in the mood for popcorn.<br />You can't completely dislike a book with a villainess so venal, she'd sell her soul and risk the destruction of the universe just for her own New York art show.  The would-be artist in question is in league with the goddess Kali, utilizing a cursed tarot deck to hasten the apocalypse.  Kali!  Buffy!  One round only!  Winner take all!<br />Yeah, kinda fun, if you're in the mood.  You've read better, but you could kill an hour or two out of your life in worse ways.	2002-03-30
US	39614869	R3BMEL8H2KHCDV	0671026321	37685860	Power of Persuasion (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Buffiest Buffy	Ye gods! Buffy Vs. Mount Olympus, a full year before goddess Glory challenged the Slayer for an entire season on T.V.! Power of Persuasion had to be, at least in part, the inspiration for Buffy's fifth season on the air: not only are Buffy's POP nemeses all-but-unkillable goddesses, but - like Glory - they consume the brains of men, as well.<br />In general, the best of the Buffy books. Unlike many others - and the T.V. series, of late - Buffy is not a bit player in her own show, in this piece. She is the star from start to finish, and has never been cleverer or more resourceful. The core group are emphasized throughout, with Angel missing and Buffy's closest friends and helpmeets subsumed, one by one, until she and (nice to see) Oz are left on their own to somehow dispatch a trio of lethal lesser Amazonian deities inadvertently summoned to Sunnydale.<br />The monstrous muses are, without doubt, the most unique challenge Buffy has ever faced. Her sheer brute force and fighting finesse are useless to her. The Olympian lassies merely laugh at all her efforts to defeat them, shrugging, smiling, and saying, \\"When you get tired of beating your head against the wall, little girl, we'll be happy to enlist you among our ranks.\\" They don't even bother to fight back. Why should they? They can't die. They can't even be significantly injured.  Against opponents that superior, what's a Slayer to do?<br />Along with Diana Gallagher's better efforts, Power of Persuasion is the best-written book of the series. The level of the actual writing is easy enough for the younger readers without being condescending to them at all, but sophisticated enough to satisfy adults. POP's plot is streamlined, its one suplot fully complements the main action, the dialogue is sharp, witty and spry, and, best of all, Buffy really is the star, from Frame One to Frame Last.	2002-03-30
US	39614869	R2DYHVGDRRC5F8	0446607177	11618814	Riptide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ripping Good Read	Preston and Child took a lot of the real-life Oak Island's history and invented a Maine island just like it  -  that is, an island that is an enormous baffle-trap, protecting an unknown treasure.  The real Oak Island traps are believed to have been constructed by Elizabethans, and P&amp;C manage to work that in, as well.  They've even done some good research into the best methods to beat the engineering marvel that is Oak Island's series of traps  -  which, to date, have all failed.<br />This was the writing duo's first really good book, where they got their formula and their style down.  The ultimate treasure (and menace) of the island  -  which they amplify into a giant deathtrap  -  isn't all that credible, but is convincingly enough drawn to suspend disbelief and enjoy the sheer roller coaster ride to the book's dramatically satisfying conclusion.<br />Anyone who likes good thrillers or detective stories will enjoy this one, but especially if they have a taste for pirates, Elizabethan history or engineering marvels.  The characters aren't as well drawn as in the authors' later books, but they're better than in their preceding ones.  Riptide is well-plotted, suspenseful, and maintains a high degree of interest throughout.  Enjoy.	2002-03-27
US	39614869	R3LG063MZV55IV	0743412419	903116172	The Book of Fours (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Rush Job	What happened?  Holder is capable of much better than this.  Up to the last thirty or forty pages the book is great, but then it runs right off a cliff.<br />First, the good:  Holder understands the characters, and writes them wonderfully.  Their dialogue is true to form, often quite witty, and she provides interesting insights into their psyches.  The inclusion of Faith is especially welcome, and long overdue.  Buffy's predecessor in the Slayer business, India, is a fabulous character, and Holder's passages about (and especially by) her are a joy.  The plot is epic and interesting, and suspense is well-maintained.<br />Unfortunately, the book has major problems, most of which give the impression that Holder was up short against a deadline.  It's poorly edited, for one thing.  There are passages toward the end that are repeated verbatim.  Characters suddenly know things they haven't been told, or if they have, they then act in contradiction to it  -  case in point, one of the major characters in the story sets the good guys up for a fall; they shouldn't realize that and yet do, and fall for the trap anyway.<BR>Numerous minor character inclusions early in the story never pan out to anything, and only take up space and diffuse the focus, seeming as if Holder intended something to happen with them but simply didn't have the time to flesh them out.<br />The finale is impossible to follow  -  again, as if Holder simply didn't have time to write it thoroughly enough.  The menace of the piece has a clear objective, achieves it, and yet for some insufficiently explained reason fails.  The action at the end is so fast, it can't be comprehended  -  a Slayer falls, a ghost takes her place (doesn't it? couldn't really be sure), but the ghost is physically real (I think; my head hurt, by that point)...and then, people who died are inexplicably just still alive, the ghost is  -  uh, what happened to the ghost?  -  the betrayer character is suddenly back in everyone's good graces,because  -  uh, why was that, again?  Did I miss something?  (You get the idea.)<br />Hardcore fans may still enjoy this one, as long as they're sufficiently forewarned about the hopelessly muddled ending.	2002-03-26
US	39614869	R33DJY6BUDVB03	0743400429	808159287	Ghoul Trouble (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	If You Can Get Past the Terrible Title...	Plainly packaged for the younger readers, this is every bit as enjoyable for the older Buffy fans.  Most titles in the Pulse line read like T.V. episodes, some better, some worse, and this one is pretty good.<br />A siren trio of ghouls prey on the young men of Sunnydale, seeking to lure out the Slayer for a little fun and games.  Along the way, they take a shine to Willow, and decide to coerce her into joining their ranks  -  all she has to do is eat the flesh of her best friend...Xander.  But Buffy already has her hands full with a legendary vampire who walks by day, Solitaire, who has a separate personal duel of his own in mind.<br />The subplot could have worked in closer tandem with the plot on this one, but that's a minor point.  This is a brisk, easy read, great for Scooby Gang interaction and clever one-liners.  All the characters get a pretty fair share of attention.  Younger readers will love it  -  though it is at times a tad gruesome  -  and even more mature readers will probably like it, if they can get past that terrible title.	2002-03-24
US	39614869	R3SHB4ML8QAW2Z	0446610232	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Chilling Epic Tragedy	This is the authors' best yet.  Those reviewers who note that Preston and Child merely stay true to their usual adventure formula are only half right.  The elements remain the same, but they turn their own style on its ear.  Where P&amp;C usually write epic melodrama, The Ice Limit is an epic tragedy.<br />A billionaire with delusions of grandeur is after a hitherto undiscovered prize:  a mammoth meteorite on an island off the coast of Peru.  Everyone on the crew he hires for the dangerous expedition to seize it has something to prove:  the meteorite expert wants desperately to prove he has found an intergalactic rock, the captain of the ship wants to prove herself to her colleagues after losing a former vessel, the head of the firm engineering the rock's transport to the States wants to prove there is still no feat beyond his incomparable skills...and a mad Peruvian sea captain wants to prove his continued worth by stopping them all from succeeding.<br />The suspense is superior, the action gripping.  The characters are quite likeable and complex, and living through the harrowing experiences they share is emotionally wrenching.<br />Some previous reviewers have noted that this book virtually demands a sequel.  I couldn't agree more.  But don't let that deter you from this stand-alone action-adventure epic.  It's simply fantastic.	2002-03-24
US	39614869	R29WVRKV4ZG7DE	0446608378	270870625	Thunderhead	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Anasazi and Aztecs and Zombies  -  Oh, My!	Child and Preston have gotten better with each succeeding novel, and Thunderhead is one of their most recent.  At their best, they read rather like adult versions of Jonny Quest:  exotic locales, a fair share of mystery, a lot of adventure and intrigue, and just a soupcon of sci-fi or the supernatural.<br />The authorial dynamic duo this time take on the mystery of the disappearance of the Anasazi, and the search for a lost city of gold.  Their research is up to date, and their posed solution for the Anasazi's disappearance/demise is quite intriguing.  Local color is excellent, and the action superior  -  Douglas Preston once personally retraced Coronado's journey on horseback, and he does a great job making the reader feel the reality of it.<br />The characters in Thunderhead are what really make it work, though.  Bill Smithback, from the Relic books, is much more fully realized here than in his previous appearances.  Heroine Nora is as sympathetic as they come:  a previous reviewer said Sarah Michelle Gellar would be ideal for the role; they could have gone further, and noticed that the girl who becomes Nora's nemesis could as easily be played by Eliza Dushku, since the dynamic between the two in Thunderhead is a great deal like that of the two antagonistic Slayers in Buffy.  The villains of the piece are far from black-hearted ogres, shaded with a very believable moral ambiguity, which is one of the greatest strengths of the book.<br />My only complaint about Thunderhead is that it had to end.  I'm given to understand that Nora and Bill are slated to appear in an upcoming C&P book, and that's good, because they started to feel like old friends by the time I was finished riding this long, involving adventure trail with them.	2002-03-24
US	39614869	R1IVMAUF0UXXH7	0671021346	433664474	Blooded (Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bloody Good Buffy	This was the title that taught me you can't judge a Buffy book by its cover.  Golden and Holder write better here than in many of their supposedly more adult titles.<br />Willow's emotional vulnerability is preyed upon by the spirit of a powerful Oriental demon, which gains gradually greater possession of her after she is accidentally cut on a ceremonial sword at the museum.  Xander similarly becomes possessed by an equally nasty opposing demon, and the two reenact King Kong Vs. Godzilla in Sunnydale.  Buffy has her work cut out for her, because she can't stop the clash of the titans without harming her two best friends.<br />Golden and Holder are in top form here, not diluting their primary plot and briskly keeping the story rolling along.  The characters are examined in more mature light than usual.  A bit bloody for the younger readers, though tame enough not to worry about.  The dialogue crackles with the best kind of wit seen in the series, and there are a few in-jokes the fans will enjoy.	2002-03-24
US	39614869	R3KD0J0CHSLC8H	0812543262	584815540	Relic (Pendergast, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	So-So Horror	Preston and Childs fans fall into two camps:  those that prefer their earlier horror novels, and those that prefer their action-adventure books.  I am in the latter category.<br />The Relic has good atmosphere and some decent action and horror sequences, with a barely plausible monster-on-the-loose plot.  The characters are less developed than in the authors' later work, though they are sufficient for material this thin.<br />There's a pretty faithful movie version starring Penelope Ann Miller  -  a bit simplified  -  that'll save you the time and trouble, if you just want a quick look to see if this is your cup of tea.<br />Relic and Reliquary are good reads for the juvenile set, or those adults who like Jurassic Park and Alien and aren't too picky about logical problems in the science of their horror-suspense novels.  The only real problem with either book is that there's nothing that stands out about them.  They're average horror, and if that's what you're looking for, you won't be disappointed.	2002-03-20
US	39614869	R9RZD7OT84IQ7	0743400356	449308134	Revenant (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Slam-Bang Buffy	The most action-oriented of all the Buffy books, though the fights are excellently written.  The book is more slam-and-tussle than plot  -  the reviewer who equated it to anime was dead on the money  -  but, hey, nothing wrong with that.  As with several of the Buffy books, this one has too many irons in the fire to satisfactorily resolve them all, but overall it is quite satisfying.<br />In a plot almost ripped out of the day's suppressed headlines, a Chinese power broker is shipping heavy arms to California street gangs.  The ensuing chaos provides excellent cover for occult behind-the-scenes activities, keeping Buffy and Company distracted.  Several out-of-town players get involved in the act, including a likeable Chinese warrior-woman who nearly fills the void in poor luckless-in-love Xander's sex-life.<br />Welcome additions in this entry are Mayor Wilkins and his faithful hench-vamp, Mr. Trick, but they are relegated to incidental roles when they should have been much bigger players in this plot.  And where is Faith, for God's sake?  One of the worst failings in the entire book series is the all but complete negation of one of Sunnydale's most notorious personages, Faith the Fallen.<br />A strong entry in the series, well-written.  Most recommended for lovers of action and anime.	2002-03-20
US	39614869	RQCZ0W9CLOGK	0812564375	666062148	Mount Dragon	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not Bad, But You've Read Better	Child and Preston embark on Andromeda Strain territory.  And pretty well, at that.  A research facility in the desert is being used under false pretenses to develop a super biological weapon.  A couple of the scientists begin to figure out what's going on when some of their colleagues start dying.  Taking the high road, they fight their way out of the high security facility to warn the world and put a stop to it.<br />Unfortunately, at that point the book loses steam.  Fully a third of the novel is taken up with a chase sequence that is exciting enough, but simply goes on too long.  At the same time, there is a virtual reality confrontation between two old adversaries that is interesting, but a bit too sci-fi for an otherwise pretty straightforward suspenser.<br />I'd give this one an extra half-star, if the ratings system enabled it.  It's not the best for anyone just starting out on Child and Preston, but fans of the pair may well want to come back to it after they've exhausted their better titles.	2002-03-20
US	39614869	R2FFEIKQEXIIM1	0671026356	836456816	The Evil That Men Do (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Great Plot, Rickety Construction	Nancy Holder and Christopher Golden are best when working together; I can only surmise that they complement each other's strengths and weaknesses well.  Even as a team, they have a tendency to fall back on too many action sequences, and both together and separately they put more in a book than it really can comfortably handle.<br />I have to preface this review by stating that Evil is a good read  -  it is just an undisciplined and overbusy one.  It has one of the best openings in any Buffy book, a virtual re-enactment of the Columbine slayings, and maintains strong depth of feeling for all the characters.  The antagonists of the piece, more or less the Spike and Dru of ancient Rome, are fascinating and well-drawn, and the historical backstories on them are among the best written scenes in the book.  The central plot is clever, and allows for strong interplay among all the series characters.<br />What's weak about it is the subplot, which becomes more distracting than enhancing.  The Roman vampires, intent on recreating epic gladiatorial games, poison Sunnydale's water supply to create madness on the streets.  Too much time is spent on Buffy and the Scoobies settling street fights that have nothing to do with the central plot, and the focus is badly diffused.<br />Fans will definitely enjoy it, but Evil is probably not the best book for newcomers to the series.	2002-03-20
US	39614869	RIM4G0FSI774M	0312981260	559539342	Temple	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Pss-ss-sst-! Matt! Your moustache is slipping!	Sometimes a relatively harmless and rather entertaining con-man will approach you for some kind of hand-out, and you really don't want to call his bluff just because you're enjoying his spiel. But if his fake moustache keeps slipping, there's only so long you can keep a straight face before you have to say something.<br />It's not uncommon for a sprawling action-adventure book to make a factual error, here and there. No author is perfect. Usually the slips are minor, or at least easily forgivable within the suspension of disbelief.<br />The problem with Temple isn't that there are a few errors. Not one damned thing in it is correct.<br />In short order, we have interstellar meteorites (there is no such thing, and we couldn't place where they came from if there were), the Pleiades called a binary star system (it is a constellation; Sirius is a binary star system), a big pack of killer cats somehow surviving for centuries from generation to generation inside a sealed pyramid (they are at least fed, but Reilly doesn't know the difference between a panther and a jaguar, and neither species is in the slightest pack-oriented), cayman crocs and killer panthuars fighting to the death in lakes and rivers (wouldn't happen - the crocs would slither away with their tails between their legs, and the cats would have no other thought on their minds but getting the hell out of the water), a doomsday weapon requiring an interstellar element being built before the element is even known to exist, guaranteed to destroy the entire planet if it is ever used (highly practical, nest-ce pas?), and five hundred year old Spanish documents describing daily Incan life in a way no history book would even come close to supporting (in fact, the documents read exactly as if they were written by a contemporary action-adventure novelist)...and all this is just for starters.<br />So, why even two stars? Hey, I still kind of enjoyed the con.<br />By the way, these flaws aren't as noticeable in Reilly'sfirst book, Ice Station, which is a much better read.	2002-03-19
US	39614869	R2ZNZ71ELZLHZX	0671041754	788917768	Immortal  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	For Once, Golden and Holder Deserve Their Hype	These two authors are the most overrated in the series, but Immortal is definitely a winner.  It is also one of the more genuinely adult Buffy entries.<br />One of the problems the book series has is coming up with sufficiently powerful foes for Buffy to face.  The T.V. show has an entire season to develop them.  The books don't.  Immortal's Veronique is one of Buffy's more memorable opponents.<br />Veronique is a lamia, an immortal vampire spirit hitherto imprisoned on a Greek island.  Unlike other vampires, she has no true body of her own.  For that reason, she can't be \\"killed.\\"  She can migrate from one corpse to another, continuing to face the best champion the world has to offer:  Buffy.  And each time around, Veronique has learned a few more of Buffy's moves.  Eventually, by simple law of averages, Buffy can only lose.<br />Compounding the Slayer's appreciable problem, Veronique plans to resurrect the demon source of all vampires, which even Buffy would be powerless to defeat in its proper form.<br />The characters are more substantially and interestingly developed than usual, the plot is brisk and involving, the action harrowing.  This is a good horror novel, in addition to being a good Buffy novel.	2002-03-19
US	39614869	R326D0LGZHTPK9	0312971230	724985102	Ice Station (Scarecrow Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Way Over-the-Top, But Who Cares?	This book  -  Reilly's first  -  is worlds better than his second attempt, Temple.  It has what are apparently the author's standard failings, which are (a.) poorly grounded factual research (on any matter other than weaponry), (b.) amateurish style (excess italicization and exclamation points), and (c.) action that is wa-a-a-ay over the top.  Ice Station has a couple of glaring factual errors that are likely not to be noticed by most of the reading public (four million year old ice covering Antarctica, for one  -  it's only had ice for about forty thousand years), but they don't harm the story at all.  As for the amateurish writing style, it may cause the occasional smirk.<br />What the book has going for it is likeable characters, a good plot and brisk pace, plenty of surprises and a satisfying finale.  And the action, while definitely overabundant, is admittedly pretty gripping.  The slightly fantastic elements in the story are at least credibly handled.  And, well, it's just a damned good read.<br />Reilly's books, especially Temple, are written essentially for a junior high level audience, but Ice Station will appeal equally to adults  -  as long as they're just looking for a pretty good roller coaster ride.  Given that the author is under thirty, I look forward to following his progress.  He'll probably improve with experience.	2002-03-19
US	39614869	R2118NZ6HCI5J1	0671039288	249538573	Sins of the Father (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Two great books, that don't quite make one.	Chris Golden's first solo effort strangles itself by having too many irons in the fire, and an anticlimactic ending.<br />The Buffy book series, when it falters, makes the same mistakes as the T.V. show's weaker episodes.  Since the show's fourth season, there has been a regrettable tendency to conclude potentially dramatic stories with inappropriately comic punch-lines.  Sometimes it works (the fourth season Halloween episode), sometimes it sours (\\"Buffy Vs. Dracula\\").  More often, it sours, as it does for one of the plots in Sins of the Father.<br />Yes, there are two plots  -  not a plot and a subplot, two plots  -  and rather than complimenting each other, they more get in each other's way.  The one plot has Buffy hooking together with her old flame from her previous high school in order to save him from a vengeful Stone Demon, the other has Giles haunted by his vampire father.  Of the two, Giles with a vampire father seems the more interesting, but that plot seems to take a back seat after a while  -  and is the one that ends with more or less a cheap joke.<br />There was wonderful dramatic potential in this book, and some of it is realized.  But it is overall one of the weaker entries in the series.  Golden has done much better.	2002-03-19
US	39614869	R25W78UW9CMH6U	0312856644	379935465	The Incredible Shrinking Man	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Matheson's Genuine Classics	There is an element of sci-fi in everything Matheson writes.  This is his most straightforward science-fiction offering.  It is also his thematically richest.<br />Matheson's protagonists are men who become isolated and besieged, and have to discover wellsprings of courage within themselves in order to overcome.  In The Shrinking Man, the protagonist virtually undergoes an entire odyssey of adventure and self-discovery.  Trapped in an ever-diminshing body, he first has to come to grips with his family and the world, and then reluctantly abandon them as his increasingly diminutive stature literally sweeps him out of their world and into a new one  -  more than once.<br />Recommended for anyone, not just fans of sci-fi.	2002-03-18
US	39614869	R1DRQC7VQ2D12F	0765341972	21305186	The Mothman Prophecies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;...and things that go bump in the night...&quot;	John Keel, like Jacques Vallee, is one of those UFO writers who obscures as much as he enlightens.  Both men have a tendency to describe unquestionably physically real occurrences (smashed objects, landing traces, radiation effects), and then to try and dismiss them as some unfathomable &quot;ultradimensional&quot; phenomenon.<br />Still, Keel was at Point Pleasant during the 1966-67 UFO flap, of which Mothman was a part, and one doesn't have to buy his specious analyses to appreciate his simple good factual reporting.  The best part of this book isn't even the reports of Mothman, but of all the other bizarre related UFO occurrences that came with him.  This is one of the best books available discussing Men In Black, though typically Keel attempts to fit them into part of the &quot;ultradimensional&quot; view instead of applying Occam's Razor and calling them for what they most appear to be:  government goons.<br />In conjunction with the movie, Keel was part of an FX T.V. special returning to Point Pleasant for a followup, which is quite interesting if you ever get a chance to see it.  The movie covers only about ten percent of Keel's UFO coverage in the book.<br />In a new afterword, Keel oddly attempts to dismiss much UFO phenomena even as he is blatantly discussing it throughout his text, and for some reason calls the famous 1989 Voronezh sightings a Cold War hoax without once citing any source  -  I am an author in this field, keep pretty up to date, and have never once heard Voronezh even accused of being any kind of hoax.  One does wish Keel would be a little less loose slinging broad, generalized accusations.	2002-03-18
US	39614869	R1362P8RIM9K37	0671026364	989094907	Resurrecting Ravana  (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Solid Buffy	One of the stronger entries in the book series, and the most adult.  The characters are more believably drawn than usual, true to their T.V. personaes but with an added dimension not often found in the books.<br />This one reads almost like a murder mystery or detective novel, and has less slam-bang action than usual.  Suspense is maintained, red herrings are offered, and the action is refreshingly economical (and more effective for it).  The ending is satisfying, but has a slightly rushed quality to it.<br />My only regret about this author is that he hasn't penned more Buffy books.  This is an auspicious debut.  Resurrecting Ravana is a good entry to interest the newbies, and will certainly satisfy the fans.	2002-03-18
US	39614869	RC0JNOK2JDSFF	0671021354	216076989	Child of the Hunt (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Passable Debut	I'm obviously in the minority on this particular Buffy entry.  This was the first \\"adult line\\" Buffy offering, though it might be noticed that it's now packaged in the \\"juvenile line\\" format, as well.  Something that must be borne in mind, always, when shopping for Buffy books, is that the packaging is immaterial as far as gauging maturity level of the content.<br />This isn't a bad book, and has a lot going for it.  Other reviewers have noticed that the dialogue is less solid than in other entries, and that there are consistency problems.  I was reluctant to buy another title in this series after reading this one, only because it struck me as nothing extraordinary  -  it isn't a great deal like the T.V. series, but is insufficiently independent of it to stand on its own as a novel.  The characters are well-drawn (Roland, especially, who achieves something of tragic stature) and it has an interesting plot, which is recounted in the other reviews here.  But this book doesn't have quite the caliber of writing as later entries.<br />In short, not bad, but I wouldn't recommend it as anyone's first foray into Buffy.	2002-03-18
US	39614869	R2TO7XXBDYX6KX	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	4	10	12	N	N	&quot;...and whatever walks there, walks alone.&quot;	Jackson's greatest strength was the psychological portraiture of women either on the edge, or over it.  Though Hill House is usually taken to be a superior supernatural novel, it is actually far more a study of a woman succumbing to suicidal impulse.  The notoriously haunted house has something of a resonant vibration with lonely and unloved spinster Eleanor Vance, who finds herself drawn deeper and deeper into its diseased fabric.  Jackson skillfully never discloses whether the ghostly house is itself the cause of Eleanor's ruin, or whether Eleanor's own psyche is simply amplified within its walls to the point that she collapses in upon herself.<br />The Haunting of Hill House is deservedly a classic, and superbly written.  It suffers somewhat by comparison to the superior 1963 film version, which better streamlined Jackson's plot and gave the story an added atmospheric dimension beyond even her own excellent descriptive skills.  But the book has unquestionably one of the most famous and well-written opening and closing paragraphs in literature, and is worthy of continued readership.<br />Whether you're looking for a good, creepy ghost story, or a brilliantly drawn portrait of a woman fighting incipient madness, this book will satisfy in either case, and provide many hours of food for thought.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	R3LYX55GM3XV5X	067103930X	190362382	Prime Evil (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Seduction of Innocence	Gallagher produces another superb entry in the Buffy book series.   She excels at stories concerning the seduction of innocence, and this one is no exception.<br />A charismatic new female teacher begins winning promising students into her own little secret society, including Willow.  This being Sunnydale, it goes without saying that the teacher is more than she appears, and has a private agenda that doesn't include making the world a better place.<br />A worthy read, even for those not familiar with the series.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	R3TIKJTZV0CFGA	0446326119	69203285	Lifeforce	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Probably Wilson's Best Sci-Fi	Nine years after first attempting a Lovecraftian sci-fi novel in The Mind Parasites, Wilson made another stab at essentially the same plot, and wrote it much better, as The Space Vampires (Lifeforce).  The major difference between the two  -  aside from a noticeably more mature approach in The Space Vampires  -  is the addition of plentiful story-required sex.<br />Wilson's plots never move briskly, but they often make up for it by being intellectually engaging.  The Space Vampires is a quick and interesting read, contrasting extraterrestrial criminals with the more common garden variety found on Earth.  Discussions abound on predation, and the precise nature of sex in general.<br />Filmed as Lifeforce in '85, the movie retained the basics of the plot, but went inexplicably overboard in directions Wilson wisely avoided.  It is still a watchable movie, but not as good as Wilson's original novel.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	R3JMR6WHS517P9	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	1	35	52	N	N	Great idea, terrible execution.	This book deserves at least one star for appreciable erudition, a small amount of humor and a more generous dollop of wit.  The \\"Department of Oxymoronic Books\\" and a fantasy depicting Sir Francis Bacon as the Evil Overlord of the World are genuinely very, very funny.  But there isn't enough of that kind of thing to justify wading through this interminable tome.<br />The story concerns a publisher of crank conspiracy theory books, who invents a game involving his computer:  he programs it with pieces of the books he publishes, and random cultural tidbits, to see what conspiracy the computer will generate; the next thing he knows, an apparent real conspiracy is afoot to discover what the computer has discovered.<br />This plot alone would make for fifty different great novels, but unfortunately Pendulum isn't even one.  The plot doesn't even begin until three-fifths of the way through the novel, and by then the reader no longer cares.  This should have been Grand Opera reduced to comic farce, and instead is comic farce that inexplicably becomes Grand Opera  -  and with an ugly, unsatisfying, and bizarre punch-line, besides.<br /> ... you don't need three Ph.D.'s to understand this book, though a bit of preliminary research into the Knights Templar and the occult would certainly help.  It's just that the book really has nothing to say, except that there's nothing of importance to say.  It isn't worth the long, often boring, meandering, pointless journey, just to be suckered into a Monty Python routine that ultimately isn't funny, or even satisfying.  It has some interesting tidbits of intellectual titillation along the way, but certainly not enough to make the book worth sifting through.  Overall, it's rather like the crashing boor who takes up your entire night promising a good conversation, but instead merely washes his head at you until you can't think straight.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	RMM0VGOG7RMCK	0671039296	798301078	Obsidian Fate (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Aztec Hell	Diana Gallagher is the best writer of the Buffy books (everyone's overrated opinion of Holder and Golden notwithstanding), and this is the best of her titles.  I was ready to give up on the series altogether, until I read this one.<br />Most of the Buffy authors simply hew to the T.V. formula, making their entries nothing more than an episode that wasn't filmed.  Such an approach is certainly acceptable, but it's much more interesting when the author can develop the characters in a more mature light, as Gallagher does.<br />The only criticism I have of this book is that its apocalpytic ending is a slight bit over the top, but it's quite satisfying for all of that.  Buffy is up against Tezcatlipoca, the \\"Smoking Mirror\\" of Aztec mythology, who seduces the weak and the jealous into assisting his plans for recreating the world in his own image.  Gallagher presents an extremely well-drawn loser character prefiguring the T.V. series' Jonathan, who manages to be both evil and genuinely pathetic.<br />Recommended for fans, and as a starter book to interest the newbies.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	R287595MKA7AWG	0743400348	949475638	Paleo (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Bronto Buffy	There are some places no Slayer should ever go.  Jurassic Park is one of them.  Of all the Buffy books, this is the weakest by far.  Aside from the odd juxtaposition of Buffy and dinosaurs, the book just plods along like a brontosaurus, itself.	2002-03-17
US	39614869	R2YP46OP568EDU	0671805843	847097036	The Werewolf of Paris	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The Werewolf Classic	This is my all-time favorite novel.  I've read it so many times, I've lost track.  When I first read it, I couldn't believe it wasn't a nineteenth century French novel, and that author Guy Endore was a twentieth century American.<br />Werewolf is the odyssey of born pariah Bertrand Caillet, a werewolf in spite of himself.  Every life he touches suffers, whether he means it to or not.  He rifles graves for sustenance during his lycanthropic episodes, and conceals his identity by becoming a French soldier during the Franco-Prussian War and the Communard uprising.  He even finds the one woman whose love might save him, an equally bizarre but oddly touching Jewish outcast named Sophie with decidedly S&M tastes.<br />The novel is many things, not the least of which is episodic.  It's a love story, a war story, a tragedy, and an absurdist comedy, by turns.  It's grotesquely funny, and hilariously terrifying.  Most of all, it's a mature social satire, and just an incredibly damn good read.<br />Crime of crimes, this magnificent literary masterpiece has once again fallen out of print.  Seek it out in the used book bins, until some publisher manages to rediscover it and put it back on the shelves of your local bookstore.	2002-03-13
US	39614869	R8CR7IFHUPW0N	0966516907	755173712	The Outer Limits Companion	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The One, the Only, Accept No Substitutes.	If you're reading this review, you've probably already bought the book  -  and anyone reviewing the book is obviously a fan, so five stars goes without saying.  This book covers the original 1963-65 United Artists/ABC series, which is far superior to the Showtime/Sci-Fi Channel contemporary show of the same name (though it is often quite good, as well).<br />Schow's companion is such an in-depth study of everything that went into the making of this incomparable T.V. series, it should be used as a textbook in television production classes.  The behind the scenes information is fascinating, especially in regards to studio politics, production problems, and even difficulties with sponsors due to show content (a face cream company wanted to yank its advertising spot for one episode, which dealt with gross disfigurement).  Interviews with principals before and behind the cameras are plentiful, and the candid shots (not to mention production promos) are wonderful.<br />But you hardly need to know that.  You've already bought it.	2002-03-13
US	39614869	R1JV36XGMK1VH8	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Deserves its good rep.	Always a good writer, Matheson had at least three classic novels in him, and this is one of them.<br />Dean Koontz usually gets the credit for creating the cross-genre novel, but he was predated by others, Matheson among them.  I Am Legend redefined the vampire novel as science fiction, but it actually is even more complex than that.  The story is richly layered and textured, highly adult and morally ambiguous.  It is a medical thriller of the genre later made more famous by Michael Crichton and Robin Cook, a post-apocalypse novel, a commentary on Darwinism, and even a war story  -  Cold and Hot.<br />The '64 AIP Vincent Price vehicle The Last Man On Earth was a faithful and effective adaptation of the book, though Matheson didn't like it any more than he did the far less faithful Warner Brothers remake ten years later, The Omega Man.  Both movies are worth a look, for different reasons.  But you owe it to yourself to read it as Matheson originally wrote it, if you really want to enjoy it to the max.  I re-read it about a year ago, and was pleasantly surprised at how little dated it was.  In fact, it's actually more up-to-date, in light of AIDS and concern over biological weapons.	2002-03-13
US	39614869	R29CKGPB9073XL	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	5	4	6	N	N	At last, a decent cover!	The history of the book is almost as fascinating as Hell House, itself.  Matheson's amazing sci-fi/horror/murder mystery was first packaged as  -  of all things  -  a Gothic romance, with a stormblown woman on a Wuthering Heights moor gracing its cover, which must have given quite a few dainty ladies at the hair salon expecting a mere bodice-ripper a heart attack or two.  It quickly was repackaged a la The Exorcist, when that notorious Blatty book and flick came out, in fairly mundane fashion  -  again, with a windblown woman looking over her shoulder, this time simply holding a candelabra.  Many years later, it came out with an absurd comic-opera cover showing disembodied head and hands menacing a cartoon heroine.  Finally, in this edition, it looks most like what it is  -  a chilling excursion into a malevolent house.<br />Superficially, it is almost identical to Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House:  both stories have a quartet of varied researchers studying a famous haunted house, both focus on the neuroses of a central female character, both have at least one fatality, and both even have a lesbian undercurrent between the two female characters.  But Matheson typically makes the story his own.<br />Belasco House is explored by a hidebound scientific psychic researcher, his insecure wife, a physical medium who survived a disastrous previous excursion, and an emotionally unstable, gullible, and overly-religious mental medium.  Florence Tanner, the unstable medium, becomes Belasco House's favorite new playtoy, in short order.  Matheson, like Jackson, is careful not to tip his hand too heavily in the beginning as to whether the house is genuinely haunted/possessed, or is simply reflecting the personality of its least grounded guest.<br />This is a very easy, breezy read  -  but the breeze has spiders and knives in it, and Matheson is a master at delivering horrifying surprises.<br />The '73 film version, The Legend of Hell House, is a faithful adaptation (byMatheson), but don't short-change yourself.  Discover why this book has stood the test of time.	2002-03-13
US	39614869	R25V5L6KKS9NIM	0373624018	504348819	The Takers : Compelling Action in the Spirit of Raiders of the Lost Ark	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best Action-Adventure Novel I Ever Read	Why is this book out of print?  At least there's an audio cassette version still available.<br />The Takers was the first in a projected series that never got beyond the second book, and more's the pity.  Ahern writes taut action/suspense, and The Takers rolls along like a freight train.<br />Ex-CIA special operations head Steiglitz and his psycho-daughter Sonia are in a race against heroes Josh Culhane and Fanny Mulrooney  -  he an action-adventure novelist and she an occult writer, presently helping out the CIA  -  to attain an ancient sea map that will theoretically lead them to the lost continent of Atlantis.  Several dead bodies, exotic locations and hair-raising scrapes later, they find what they are looking for beneath the ice of the South Pole: an ancient flying saucer base, replete with still-working technology from the stars.<br />The story and handling are more adult than usual for this type of thing, and at least as good as anything Michael Crichton or Preston and Childs have ever written.  Jerry Ahern, where the hell you been, man?  Write more of these things!	2002-03-12
US	39614869	REIUYF83R47Q4	0380806460	472378655	Wilderness	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Reads like vintage Koontz  -  and probably is.	Given Dean Koontz's penchant for pseudonymous writing, I'd be surprised if he didn't pen this wonderful, weird little love story.  It reads like him, at his peak.<br />Alice White has this little problem  -  she's a werewolf.  Nobody believes her, despite the fact that a man she was alone with several years back during a full moon was killed by some unidentified kind of dog.  Even her psychiatrist thinks she's merely projecting a fantasy.<br />Now, Alice is ready to give up her lonely life of one-night stands, having met her great love in college instructor Erik Summers.  She wants to tell him  -  but how?  Complicating matters are the fact that Alice's psychiatrist has a secret hankering for her, and Erik's ex-wife wants him back.  Alice learns self-hypnosis to control her transformations for Erik's sake, but with all the various little love triangles afoot, it isn't too long before raging hormones start taking over, and...<br />...oh, I'm sorry, I'm sure you'd rather take the ride, yourself.  It's well worth it.  This is the sort of story Anne Rice often attempts and rarely quite succeeds at.<br />Bon appetit.	2002-03-12
US	39614869	R2USJ3FN6C6UB3	0938817442	992528547	The Night Stalker: A 25th Anniversary Tribute	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Long live Kolchak!	The Night Stalker was almost the forerunner of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, both in subject matter and humorous handling.  It ran out of steam after a mere twenty episodes (and its forerunner pair of top-rated T.V. movies), and has ever since been nothing more than a cult favorite, unknown to everyone but its small circle of ardent fans.<br />Mark Dawidziak has done us all an immeasurable favor by keeping the legacy alive, introducing Carl Kolchak to new generations of viewers who might otherwise never hear his name.  His wonderful book contains interviews with the principals responsible for bringing Kolchak to T.V., both before and behind the cameras, and the best available pictures from the series.<br />For those who are already Kolchak fans, an invaluable resource and a welcome walk down memory lane.  For those who are not (yet), a proper introduction to the original supernatural super-sleuth.	2002-03-12
US	39614869	R2R7JSZYUC5KGK	1568493215	233688105	V	Books	1	25	46	N	N	V.   -   Y.?	Yes, there are \\"V\\"'s galore throughout V.  -  here a V, there a V, everywhere a V-V  -  but Y-Y?<br />Thomas Pynchon must secretly hate pseudo-intellectuals, and writes books like V. to draw them out and taunt them  -  much as a mean little kid at the zoo teases the monkeys.<br />V. is a theme in search of a plot.  It would make a fine symbolist painting or poem, but it is a lousy novel.  It is the literary equivalent of Seinfeld: a bunch of wacky loser characters do nothing and go nowhere.  Sometimes amusing, yes.  Occasionally diverting.  Definitely not without some humor.  But nothing happens.  No, no  -  NOTHING happens.  Five hundred some pages of this, no one needs.  Life is too short.  Spare yourself.<br />Since I haven't seen this particular \\"V\\" pointed out by the V-spotters who have nothing better to do with their lives, it is worth noting that the title page \\"V\\" is composed of 41 v's, which by occult redaction equals 4+1=5 (or Roman numeral \\"V\\").  If this sort of thing impresses you, then by all means read V., because it's all you're going to find in it by way of stimulation. Don't say you weren't warned.	2002-03-12
US	39614869	R24VT1HVOZ2X4S	091472827X	57276993	The Mind Parasites	Books	3	27	35	N	N	Robert Heinlein Without the Sex	Wilson almost never writes anything that doesn't revolve around his \\"Faculty X\\" theories, and this is no exception.  He is a philosopher far more than he is a storyteller, though his novels are generally well worth the read anyway.  At his worst, Wilson comes off sounding like a pitch-man for EST  -  his heroes miraculously become supermen of Herculean mental abilities seemingly by nothing but an act of will, and resort to trickery and ruthlessness to control the masses, lessening their impact as sympathetic characters  -  but at his best, Wilson sounds a genuine note of hope for human self-improvement.<br />This was Wilson's first sci-fi effort, and was written more than a third of a century ago, so it has to be cut a certain amount of slack.  The basic plot is simple Lovecraft: evil aliens are keeping the human race down, and it's up to the Supermen to save Earth.  You've probably read better, but The Mind Parasites is still worth rummaging around the used books bin to find.	2002-03-11
US	39614869	RQE7A3FIZGVRL	1860647626	771821506	Reading the Vampire Slayer: The Unofficial Critical Companion to Buffy and Angel (Tauris Parke Paperbacks)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Layers of Slayers	There are many reasons why Buffy the Vampire Slayer has been a successful show for six years, and Roz Kaveney's collection of essays from diverse critics enumerates those reasons.  Kaveney's own opening essay is the best of the good lot, demonstrating thematic arcs within seasons (and connecting  seasons) and likening them to classical music composition.  Other essays include Buffy in slash fan-fiction, Buffy and Kung Fu cinema, set and setting in the show, Capitalism/Commercialism vs. Idealism, and perceptive analyses of actor performances.<br />     Any fan of the show will find new appreciation for its intricacies, and virgins may begin discovering the roots of its popularity.  A fascinating read, even for those with no real interest in Buffy, as it pertains also to television in general and pop-culture studies.	2002-03-11
