US	39655071	R2WUL6FDDA5QFO	038541580X	989227982	Prisoner's Dilemma: John von Neumann, Game Theory, and the Puzzle of the Bomb	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Intriguing Look At Human Behavior, History, and the Origins of the Bomb	Game Theory is a social science devised by John von Neuman, one of the 20th centuries most brilliant minds.  Basically, game theory is the study of human behavior and rationality when presented with choices.  It helps us predict how people will react, given their situation, and what they have to gain/lose through each choice. <br />The book is both an explanation of game theory and a miniature biography of von Neuman's life.  Von Neuman worked on the Manhattan Project to build the first atomic bomb during World War II.  Most scientists feared the power of the bomb, and knew that even though it was necessary, it would cause a lot more problems than it would solve.  However, von Neuman's own beliefs, which were influenced by game theory, were a bit different than most of his colleagues. <br />The book, using interesting examples, gives us a crash course in game theory, with a focus on prisoner's dilemmas.  A prisoner's dilemma is a problem where you and an opponent are pitted against each other, and you each must make a choice to either help each other out or turn on the other.  It would be most beneficial for both to cooperate.  However, if you cooperate and your opponent betrays you, the consequences are the worst.  Therefore, it is only rational to betray your partner. <br />This is one of the most interesting books that I've read in a very long time, and it has definitely made me take a second look at how things in my life have in the past and could in the future turn out.  If you want to learn something fun and useful, Prisoner's Dilemma is definitely for you.	2005-08-21
US	39655071	R317FN69PAVOX2	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Marvelous	And then there was war.  After the tragic, yet enlightening, trip to the Ministry of Magic that landed many Death Eaters in jail, got one of Harry's closest allies killed, and finally allowed Harry to learn just why Lord Voldemort tried to kill him at such a young age, magical society is beginning to fall apart.  Voldemort and his Death Eater followers have brought the Dementors to their side, and have begun mass killings.  Things have gotten so bad that the heads of Muggle governments (such as the English Prime Minister and the American President) are being apprised of the situation.  Furthermore, Cornelius Fudge has been removed as Minister of Magic. <br />The fighting has taken its toll on even Dumbledore, who has suffered a great injury, but that has not stopped him from continuing to fight as well as run Hogwarts.  Meanwhile, Harry, Ron, Hermione, Ginny, Neville, Luna, and the rest of the children return to the school.  This will be Harry, Ron, and Hermione's sixth year, and they begin to take really advanced courses in preparation to take the graduation exams in the seventh and final year.  Harry has narrowed down his class list to just a few choice subjects that are required to become an Auror (Transfiguration, Defense Against the Dark Arts, Potions, Charms).  As usual, there is a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, and sadly, once again, the prof is someone that Harry could do without (so far, he has only truly liked on DADA teacher, and that was Lupin; he did like Moody until he figured out that it was an imposter).  And for once, Harry excels in Potions class due to the help of a book once owned by the mysterious \\"Half-Blood Prince\\". <br />The bonds of friendship are pushed to the breaking point this year due to teenage hormones.  Anyone who reads between the lines knows that Ron and Hermione secretly want each other, yet they each have character flaws that keep them apart and in the arms of others, and Harry is forced to be a mediary between the two.  Harry also harbors a crush on someone, but he also believes that pursuing the crush would destroy a friendship. <br />This book is much more of a slow-burning story than previous ones.  It focuses a lot on Voldemort's past as Tom Riddle, and while there are hints as to foul play by Draco Malfoy througout the book, they are very sparse.  Yet everything leads up to a brilliant and heart-breaking ending. <br />I was surprised to see that two of my predictions that I made after reading book 2, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, have come to pass, yet they occured one book early.  I was pretty sure that each thing would happen, yet I did not think that they would occur until the final book.  However, having them happen now instead of in the seventh book allows for us to truly feel how they affect everything in the seventh book. <br />As usual, this was an excellent book.  Rowling has done an amazing job of unravelling a very compelling story.  She created the entire backstory before writing the first book, which explains why everything fits so well together, and she continues to impress with fun, interesting characters, beautifully described locations (sometimes hauntingly beautiful), cool magical properties, and a great story.  I can't wait to read the next, and last, book, which has a final chapter that has been written and kept under lock and key since before the release of the fifth book.	2005-07-18
US	39655071	RZ1MA4B3UYZPI	1932100431	721303339	Finding Serenity: Anti-heroes, Lost Shepherds and Space Hookers in Joss Whedon's Firefly (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	168	171	N	N	There's No Place You Can Be Once You Find Serenity	Firefly is, in my opinion, the greatest show to last less than a season.  Usually when people think of shows that have been cancelled, especially shows that have been axed that quickly, they think of something with terrible writing, bad acting, and low production value.  However, there have been short-lived shows that were killed way too quickly.  Wonderfalls and Greg the Bunny each barely got one season while shows like Andy Richter Controls the Universe, Tru Calling and Titus didn't get much more (Family Guy would have fit into this category last year, but it has come back to the airwaves).  All of the shows that I have just mentioned have either been edgy or quoirky, and that has led to their early, yet unwarranted demise.  Each of those shows had a quality to them that many long-running shows could never dream of achieving (such as the Simple Life).  But Firefly blew them all away. <br />This compilation of essays has some very interesting contributions.  One essay investigates the question of just who killed the show (besides the network brass at FOX).  Another looks at the role of Inarra (Morena Baccarin) on the show, and compares her to women of similar positions throughout history.  Some of the episodes are just hilarious, such as the one with the supposed network notes from FOX exec Early Jubal (a take-off on one of the villains from the show), or the Firefly vs. Star Trek: Enterprise adventure.  Some of them are strangely contradictory; one author writes that the women of the show are the smartest, ablest, and best characters, and that the men of the show would be nowhere without them (think about it; the most dangerous person on the ship is a 100-pound teenage girl).  However, another writer claims that, because this enters into the western genre, the women are subdued and secondary to the male cast members.  Also, at the end is a glossary of all the Chinese phrases used on the show, and some of them are pretty funny (although, probably unintentionally so).  Finally, there is the essay from Jewel Staite, who plays Kaylee Frye on the show.  Basically, it lists her top 5 favorite moments from each episode.  I'm not sure if its my favorite (that honor may be reserved for the Firefly vs. Enterprise one), but I do see it somewhat differently than most of the others.  Maybe it's because it came from an actual cast member, or maybe because I'm in love with Kaylee (but that's a different story all together). <br />This is certainly a fun little addition to the Firefly universe.  While some of the essays won't be completely accurate come September (some stuff in the film contradicts some of the theories and ideas a few of the authors had), it will always be a good read.	2005-06-08
US	39655071	R3AYPMXJB9BDW0	0064410145	681127066	The Grim Grotto (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 11)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Shades of Gray and Getting Grayer	Well, I've reached the end of the line for the \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events\\" books, and I need to wait until September for the next one to come out.  To recap, the three Baudelaire orphans, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, have sadly been through a series of some of the most unfortunate events ever to occur to a trio of intelligent children.  Violet, who is now 15 years old, is a master inventor who can use almost anything at her fingertips to build amazing machines that can be used for a variety of purposes, including helping herself and her siblings get out of some rather nasty predicaments.  The now-13-year-old Klaus is an extremely intelligent researcher, who loves to read and can remember everything he picks up in a book.  These skills constantly come in handy when the children are forced to figure out tough mysteries and problems in very short amounts of time.  And finally, Sunny, who has recently grown out of infanthood, has been endowed with extremely sharp teeth that allow her to bite her way out of many troubling situations.  Lately, she has been developing impressive culinary skills as well. <br />After receiving some very troubling news about a terrible fire that killed their parents, the three children were sent to live with an obscure relative named Count Olaf.  Olaf was a terrible guardian who tried to steal the Baudelaire family fortune that the children had inherited.  After trying to marry (yes, marry!) Violet in order to get the money, the children moved in with their loving uncle.  Sadly, Olaf appeared in disguise and once again tried to get his hands on the Baudelaire fortune. <br />This went on for a while until the children were sent to a strict boarding school where they met Duncan and Isadora Quagmire, two of three triplets who also lost their wealthy parents and their brother Quigley, the third triplet, in a terrible fire.  Like the Baudelaires, the Quagmires each had their own special skills.  Duncan was a journalist, Isadora was a poet, and Quigley, before the fire, was a cartographer.  The children became fast friends, until Olaf was able to capture the Quagmires.  Right before he took them away though, they were able to tell the Baudelaires about something they needed to find with the initials V.F.D. <br />Eventually, the three children were able to save their friends, but at the same time, Olaf was able to frame the siblings for murder, and the Baudelaires were forced to flee from the police to a hospital in the middle of nowhere.  Once there, they discovered many more secrets regarding V.F.D., which they learned was a secret society.  After escaping the hospital, which had been set on fire by Olaf, the children were forced to go into disguise as carnival freaks in order to learn more about V.F.D. from Olaf and his crew.  There they learned about an important sugar bowl that Olaf needed to find, and later, they had to assist Olaf in burning down the carnival in order to maintain their disguises.  Sadly, Olaf discovered them, kidnapped Sunny, and sent Violet and Klaus careening down a snowy mountain in a runaway caravan.  The siblings survived and found out that Quigley was in fact still alive.  Violet, Klaus, and Quigley were able to rescue Sunny, find out the last safe place that V.F.D. would go, and escape Olaf yet again.  And this is where The Grim Grotto begins. <br />The Baudelaires, after being seperated from Quigley, the Baudelaires are found by a V.F.D. submarine captained by a man named Widdershins, and crewed by his step-daughter Fiona and Phil the Optimist from the Lucky Smells Lumbermill.  They embark on a mission to recover the sugar bowl before Olaf and the crew of the Carmelita (Olaf's sub named after the bratty Carmelita Spats) do.  Along the way, we learn some family history of one of Olaf's associates which turns out to come back to hurt the Baudelaires and Fiona. <br />This is one of the best books yet in the series (although I'm still going with the fact that The Hostile Hospitalis the best).  Throughout the last few books, the Baudelaires have been wondering about whether or not they themselves have been turning into villains themselves because they have been disguising themselves, they participated in arson, and they considered trapping Esme Squalor in order to participate in a prisoner exchange to get Sunny back.  In this book, the shades of gray get even grayer.  When Sunny is poisoned by some mushrooms that will kill her within the hour, they have to consider allowing her to die in order to preserve the greater good.  They also are forced to come to terms with the fact that even the people \\"noble\\" side of the V.F.D. schism have bad qualities to them, even their parents. <br />The stakes continue to get raised, as Olaf's troupe has now grown to a number big enough to crew an enormous submarine while V.F.D. struggles to remain a force for them to reckon with.  Amazingly, even though things are still dire at the end, Snicket is able to leave us with a small note of hope while we wait until the next book is released.	2005-01-28
US	39655071	R301HY98624G5Y	0064410137	639861521	The Slippery Slope (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 10)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Return of A New Friend	While I still think that The Hostile Hospital is the best book so far, this one is not far off from being the best.  It begins exactly where the last book ended; Violet and Klaus are in a runaway caravan that is speeding down the mountain-side while Sunny is in the clutches of Count Olaf and his villainous troupe.  The book alternates between the two sets of children; it will tell Violet and Klaus' story for a few chapters, then return to the top of the mountain where Sunny and her captors are waiting to \\"recruit\\" new members. <br />In this book, we are introduced to new friends and villains.  The villains, while we never learn their names or who they truly are, are definitely a threat, because they can cause even Olaf to get scared.  Meanwhile, the Baudelaires meet up with a new friend who has ties to the Quagmires, two of three triplets that the Baudelaires met back at Prufrock Prep.  Unfortunately for the Baudelaires, another classmate returns as well, the bratty Carmelita Spats. <br />While this book has many interesting twists and revelations (we are actually given a credible response to the question, \\"What does V.F.D. stand for?\\", but anyone who's seen the movie has pretty much already figured it out), I would have to say that the thing that shocked me the most was Violet and their new friend making out on the mountain.  It just completely caught me off guard. <br />Anyway, if you have been reading the series, you will definitely enjoy this volume.  The world is quiet here.	2005-01-26
US	39655071	R174O5PMKSGT1M	0064410129	271695429	The Carnivorous Carnival (A Series of Unfortunate Events # 9)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just When You Thought Things Couldn't Get Worse...	This is definitely one of the better books in Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events (although I would have to say that The Hostile Hospital is still my favorite), and it definitely has the best ending, a phrase which here means, \\"the darkest and most unfortunate for the Baudelaires\\".  After hitching a ride in Count Olaf's car, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny find themselves at Caligari Carnival, home of Madame Lulu the fortune teller and her freaks.  Sensing that Lulu can provide the Baudelaires with much-needed information, the children disguise themselves as freaks in order to safely wander the grounds of the dismal carnival.  Violet and Klaus become the two-headed Beverly and Elliot while Sunny poses as Chabo the Wolf Baby. <br />Some of the best jokes revolved around the treatment of the freaks, in the sense that most of the freaks weren't too freaky, and many of Count Olaf's crew and even the audience members were mistaken as performers in the Freak Show (however, the mistreatment and manipulation of the real freaks was a little sad at times). <br />Once again, a fire broke out (fires seem to symbolize evil in these books), although assuming that the \\"F\\" in V.F.D. stands for fire, it's not that unexpected now. <br />After this incredible ending, I can't wait to find out what happens next.	2005-01-22
US	39655071	R2E1WXBXN8I4P	0064408663	17923185	The Hostile Hospital (A Series of Unfortunate Events #8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pietrisycamollaviadelrechiotemexity!	Yeah, I know, the title means something along the lines of \\"I have no idea what's going on\\" (you'll understand once you read the book), but I couldn't not use that for the title.  Pietrisycamollaviadelrechiotemexity is one of the words that the infant Sunny Baudelaire uses to communicate (however, her speech skills are quickly improving).   <br />In what is the best entry yet in Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events, the three Baudelaires find themselves at Heimlich Hospital.  They have been cut off from Mr. Poe, the man charged with placing them in the homes of new guardians, their friends Duncan and Isadora Quagmire are floating in the sky somewhere with Hector from the Village of Fowl Devotees, and they have been framed for the murder of a man everyone thinks to be Count Olaf, but in reality, Olaf is still hot on their trail.  Once again, the Baudelaires have pursued the wrong V.F.D., this time they join Volunteers Fighting Disease, which is how they end up at the hospital. <br />However, just when things seem as if they can't get any worse, a ray of light shines through when Violet, Klaus, and Sunny discover something very interesting in the hospital's Library of Records...  However, things go back to their usual unfortunate-ness when Olaf and his associates attempt to perform the world's first cranioectamy on a young girl named Laura V. Bleediotie (think about the name for a second or two), and things keep going from bad to worse as the story goes on. <br />This is definitely the best book yet, but it is partly due to the fact that this is the most unfortunate outing yet for the Baudelaires (if the levels of sadness and unfortune that they encounter can even be quantified).  I can't wait to see what happens to them next at the Carniverouos Carnival...	2005-01-20
US	39655071	R36465PSGLEKZT	0064408655	43061444	The Vile Village (A Series of Unfortunate Events, No. 7)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mysteries and Murders	By now, prospective guardians for the three Baudelaire orphans have grown weary about taking them in since they have had six previous homes and guardians, and in each place they've been, trouble has followed.  Sadly for the orphans, the trouble was never their fault, but the evil Count Olaf tends to make things seem as if Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire are the causes of the numerous deaths, disturbances, and discomforts that have followed them.  So when Mr. Poe can't find a new guardian, he decides to send them to a town participating in a new program revolving around the idea that \\"it takes a village to raise a child\\".  When the siblings notice that one of the towns is called V.F.D., they believe that they have found the key to solving their troubles with Count Olaf, and will find their missing friends, Duncan and Isadora Quagmire.  Sadly, though not unexpectedly, their hopes turn out to be false (for the most part), as V.F.D. stands for Village of Fowl Devotees, and the villagers are completely obsessed with the crows that inhabit the town, as well as 50,000 rules (I am not exaggerating this) that all have the same penalty for being broken: death by fire at the stake. <br />Things start out bad for the Baudelaires, and they only get worse after they are wrongfully imprisoned for murdering a man that everyone believes to be Count Olaf (turns out, the guy's name is really Jaques S.). <br />These books continue to improve in quality due to the increase in interesting plot twists and new methods of story telling.  Unlike the first few books, even though Count Olaf is still a major player in the grand scheme of things, he is becoming more and more of a background character who manipulates events without anyone knowing instead of trying to rush in and capture the orphans.  Can't wait to start the next book, The Hostile Hospital.	2005-01-16
US	39655071	RCLI1GJQ0HOY7	0060007192	846890982	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Cryptic Overview of "Events"	In this Unauthorized Autobiography (which is of course a joke in the sense that an autobiography, by its definition, is always authorized) both sheds some light on the mysterious Lemony Snicket while simultaneously making things even murkier. <br />Through a collection of notes, letters, photos, encrypted messages, and recorded minutes from secret V.F.D. meetings, we are very slightly given more information about the mysterious \\"volunteer\\" organization as well as some interesting details about Snicket's life before his documentation of the Baudelaire children and his run from the law. <br />If you haven't read any of the \\"Series of Unfortunate Events\\" books yet, don't even try to read this one, as you will have no idea what is going on.  For those of you who have been reading them, wait until about Book 6, 7, or 8 to begin reading this so that it will make the most amount of sense.  The world is quiet here.	2005-01-14
US	39655071	RZQROC1TLSQ4T	0064408647	479846891	The Ersatz Elevator (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 6)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reading This Book Is In	In what is probably the best book yet in the series, the Baudelaires find themselves just a few blocks away from their old mansion home.  Their new guardians, the extravagent Esme Squalor and her non-confrontational husband Jerome, live on Dark Ave., which is located near the old Baudelaire mansion.  Esme is obsessed with things that are \\"in\\", or popular.  Since orphans are currently \\"in\\", she decides to adopt the children.  However, Count Olaf quickly shows up yet again, this time disguised as an auctioneer. <br />Although, despite his early appearance, Count Olaf does not play a major role this time around.  Instead, suspense is built as the Baudelaire children frantically try to discover his plan while still trying to discover the location of their missing friends, Duncan and Isadora Quagmire, who may be closer to them than they think. <br />In this book, numerous twists and revelations are revealed, all of which serve to make the story better and better.  Hopefully, the rest of the books will continue to increase in quality, and will keep the twists coming.	2005-01-13
US	39655071	RRMNQGQVECG86	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Hilarious, Biting Satire	In today's world of Austin Powers, Anchorman, and the declining Simpsons, it's very hard to find good, intelligent satire (in the vein of the Simpsons when it was in its prime).  The Daily Show Presents: America (the Book) is without a doubt the smartest political satire that I have had the pleasure to read in a very long time.  The book was very well done, from its format as a text book to the smart writings of Jon Stewart, Stephen Colbert, Rob Cordry, and Samantha Bee, among others, there was never a dull moments.  Chapters ranged from the three branches of government, to the media (including a \\"false start\\" due to a very tired writer on a Red Bull binge), to the future of democracy, and even to the rest of the world.  The best part is that no side of the political spectrum is safe from these writers (although the right side does tend to receive more hits than the left), so both liberals and conservatives can enjoy this book.  There are so many things in here that it is likely that you'll need to go through it a few times just to see everything (there was even a reference to one of my favorite shows, \\"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\\", but you have to really look hard for it).  So if you're tired of stupid, slapstick comedies, you should definitely check this book out.	2005-01-10
US	39655071	RMIHULHH5D68F	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Baudelaire Quagmire Continues	In what is definitely the best book in the Series of Unfortunate Events sine The Reptile Room, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire must survive a terrible boarding school while still avoiding Count Olaf, who is now in disguise as the new gym teacher, Coach Ghengis.  Meanwhile, their Asst. Principal Nero is probably the worst \\"guardian\\" since Olaf himself.  He may not be trying to steal their fortune, but he is a cruel man whose even less mature than Sunny Baudelaire, which is really saying something, since she is but an infant.  Mischief, mayhem, and misfortune continue to follow the three Baudelaire siblings, but, unlike most of the books, a little ray of hope shines through in the form of Duncan and Isadora Quagmire, two triplets who lost the the third triplet, their brother Quigley, as well as their parents to a fire, very similar to the plight of the Baudelaire parents. <br />In my opinion, it is this happiness that the Baudelaires are able to find that helps make the book so good.  Don't get me wrong, there are plenty of unfortunate events, which is the main draw to the stories.  However, after one unfortunate event after another, it does tend to get a little depressing (this is also the reason that The Reptile Room was one of the better books; their Uncle Monty was a wonderful guardian and he provided the children with hope).  Another great thing about this book is that things get more and more involved.  The Baudelaires and the Quagmires begin to research Count Olaf, and the initials VFD, which will come to play a big part of the ultimate story, are introduced, and our narrator, Lemony Snicket, gives us a little insight into his life, and hints at some connections that he has to Count Olaf. <br />So if you are a fan of this book series, this one will not disappoint you.  And don't forget, Memento Mori (the school's motto).	2005-01-09
US	39655071	R3NVQ7ZDWIYTPU	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Plot Thickens	In the fourth book in Lemony Snicket's \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events\\", we see the three Baudelaire children working at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill in Paltryville, where their new guardian, Sir, is a no-nonsense business-man who forces the poor children to work in the mill, receive only chewing gum for lunch (which they are allergic to), and get paid in coupons.  Although, this is not their chief concern; a few doors down from the mill is a building that is in the shape of an eye and looks exactly like the tatoo on Count Olaf's ankle.  For those of you who don't know, Count Olaf has been pursuing the children in hopes of stealing their fortune from them. <br />One of the things that I liked about this book was the more mysterious feel to it (yeah, it's not a mind-bender, but hey, it's a kid's book).  Even though I enjoy the Count Olaf character, he doesn't resurface right away, which may actually frighten the children more due to anticipation.  Also, Mr. Poe, the executor of their estate isn't as stupid as he normally is (finally!). <br />This is definitely the best book since The Reptile Room, and if things keep improving like this, I am very anxious to see what happens next.	2005-01-07
US	39655071	R2R3UI97D2AJ66	1932100083	530480322	Seven Seasons of Buffy: Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Discuss Their Favorite Television Show (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Intersting Read For Buffy Fans	While, in my opinion, this book wasn't as good as it's sister collection, Five Seasons of Angel, it was still very entertaining, insightful, and often humorous.  Essays were very well done and most of them had very good points to make.  Essay subjects ranged from the censorship of the show to individual character studies, to thinking about elements of Joss Whedon's complex universe.  The thing that surprised me the most, though, was that some of my favorite essays had to do with characters who weren't part of the core four (Buffy, Xander, Willow, and Giles).  Two of my favorite essays were the ones about Tara and Riley, and they really got me thinking of how good each of those characters are (although not many people will agree with me about Riley).  Although I also enjoyed the essay about Xander, one reason being the creative format of the essay, and I think that my favorite overall was the final one, dealing with how season seven and the series finale not only tied up the last year the way it should have ended, but also ended the series the way it should have.  With a few exceptions, this was a great read, and any Buffy fan should consider at least borrowing this book.	2005-01-04
US	39655071	R21Q339MMN6WTY	1932100334	528109603	Five Seasons Of Angel: Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers Discuss Their Favorite Vampire (Smart Pop series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Insightful and Funny	As a fan of Buffy and Angel, I try to keep my distance from conventions, fan clubs, and books like \\"The Watcher Diaries\\" in order to not appear obsessed with the shows.  However, when I found out about this book and its \\"sister\\" Seven Seasons of Buffy, I broke down and got them.  The reason I was so interested was that the essays in this anthology were written by many different types of fans; some of them hold PhDs, while one essay is written by a crew member from the show, so he had some pretty interesting stories to tell.  I must say that some of these people's interpretations of the show are pretty interesting.  A lot of them made me take a step back and look at certain episodes again to see what they were talking about.  This book will make a good read for even a casual Angel fan.	2004-12-21
US	39655071	R3Q1V71EWBYH0	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Unfortunately, A Relapse	The Bad Beginning was good, the Reptile Room was better.  Sadly, the Wide Window, the third book in the Series of Unfortunate Events series loses a little bit of quality.  Don't get me wrong; Lemony Snicket's trademark bizarre humor is definitely here, but I just found that this book seemed to lack something that made the previous two as good as they were.  I think one of the biggest problems is that all the adults in these books couldn't be more dense even if they tried.  After the Baudelair orphans twice thwarted the evil schemes of Count Olaf, you'd think that Mr. Poe and all the other adults would start to trust these kids a little more.  If not that, you'd think that Mr. Poe would begin to pick up on some of Olaf's mannerisms. <br />This book follows the Baudelaires' exploits with their Aunt Josephine, who sadly is another problem for the book.  Aunt Josephine is a very weak and boring character; she fears everything irrationally, and constantly corrects grammar, even in the face of great danger.  I think one of the reasons the first two books were better is that the guardians were interesting characters.  Olaf of course is the Big Bad of the series and their Uncle Monty was someone we had hoped would survive and be the children's permanent guardian (even though we knew it wasn't meant to be).  With Josephine, however, after only a few chapters, I couldn't wait for her to be out of the picture. <br />Don't despair, though.  As I said, this book is still very funny, chock full of Snicket's off-the-wall humor.  It's just that I was hoping for a little more.  Hopefully the next book will be an improvement.	2004-12-15
US	39655071	R3C5YOW28EKZ7F	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Better Than The First	The second book in Lemony Snicket's \\"A Series of Unfortunate Events\\" series is superior to it's predecessor in almost every way; it's funnier, it's (relatively) more involved (this is a children's book, so don't be expecting massive twists or revelations), and, while it is dark, it's not as dark as the first, because some good stuff does actually happen to the unfortunate Baudelaire children. <br />The story starts almost immediately after the events of \\"The Bad Beginning\\"; Mr. Poe, the executor the the Baudelaire estate is taking the three children, Violet, Klaus, and Sunny, to meet their new guardian, a Dr. Montgomery Montgomery (hereafter to be referred to as Uncle Monty), a distant uncle.  Uncle Monty turns out to be an expert on snakes, and his house reflects that in it's decor.  Uncle Monty even has a huge lab in his house where he keeps all of his snakes (the Reptile Room).  Fortunately for the Baudelaires (a phrase that does not frequently occur), Uncle Monty is the exact opposite of Count Olaf, their former guardian; he's kind, loving, fun, interesting, and he doesn't try to kill them and take their fortune.  Furthermore, the Baudelaire children find that they love the Reptile Room (which throws me for a loop because I know very few people who would be able to live in a house full of snakes; I know I couldn't), especially the Incredibly Deadly Viper, whose name is a misnomer.  Unfortunately for the children, their old nemesis soon returns, as evil and greedy as ever. <br />As I said, this book is better than the first.  Personally, I think this one is a lot more kid-friendly, although there are a few points I was surprised to find in a children's book.  But all in all, this one is much lighter.  The jokes are better (I love the ones about the Virginian Wolfsnake which shouldn't be allowed near a typewriter, probably a nod to Virginia Woolf, and the pair of snakes that are dangerous because they could drive and would drive over a person and never look back),and, as I said, there are times when the children aren't miserable. <br />However, for a story called the Reptile Room, there was a plot point that could have been used, yet was completely over-looked.  I thought that the snakes in the room were going to be a cause of misfortune, yet nothing ever went wrong.  Oh well; I guess I prefer it that way, seeing as how I hate snakes so much. <br />If you liked the first book, then you should definitely continue.  If you didn't like the first book, give this one a try; you may find you like this one.	2004-12-10
US	39655071	R3NCGV9H3KL6IX	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Bizarre Yet Intriguing	I had never heard of these books until the movie came along.  When I first saw posters and cardboard ads, I had no idea what was going on, but after I saw the first preview, I thought that the movie looked entertaining in a bizzare way.  I talked to my sister, who is 7 years younger than me, and she has read some of the books, and she likes them, but I wasn't sure they were for me, a college student.  As it turned out, my RA had a copy of this book, so he let me borrow it.  After finishing it in an hour (yes, you can get through it that quickly), here are my thoughts. <br />This book, while written at a very low reading level, should NOT be given to young children.  It is very dark (though not as dark as the superior Harry Potter books); it deals with child abuse, death, incompetent adults, as well as a few other disturbing things.  However, I am only warning you, much like the \\"author\\" Lemony Snicket often does.  I would reccomend at least reading this book once if you ever get the chance.  Yes, it was written for children, but there a lot of adult subtexts in the book, and it is as I predicted- entertaining in a very bizzare way. <br />This is the first book in a series of (I think) 13 books in the \\"Series of Unfortunate Events\\" series.  The action centers around the three Baudelaire children, the inventor Violet, who is the eldest, the bookworm Klaus, the only boy, and the teething Sunny, who likes to sink her teeth into anyone and everything.  After the sad deaths of their very kind and very rich parents, the Baudelaire orphans are sent to live with their closest (geographically) relative, Count Olaf, an actor by trade.  Sadly, it turns out that Olaf is a greedy child abuser who is only interested in procuring the enormous fortune left behind by the deceased parents.  Basically, Olaf forces the children to do all of his housework, none of which he appreciates, while he plots to steal their riches.  Meanwhile, the children quietly plot an escape.  That's about the extent of the story. <br />Yes, it's true, I did cringe at a few parts, especially the whole wedding thing, which also qualifies as the biggest reason this book should be kept away from young children.  Snicket's constant translations, observations, and warnings are definitely the highlight of the book, but I also enjoyed wondering how the Baudelaire children would solve their current predicament, as well as wondering what would come next. <br />If you do not choose to read this, it is understandable, but for those of you who do read it, I hope you enjoy it as much or more than I did.  And to quote Lemony Snicket, don't say I didn't warn you!	2004-12-01
US	39655071	R2LDMC5Z68F4M7	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing	Once again, J.K. Rowling delivers a truly magical story of Harry Potter and his wizarding friends Ron Weasly and Hermione Granger.  This book tells the story of how two months after the Dark Lord Voldemort's return, the Ministry of Magic still refuses to believe that he has returned, and in order to discredit Harry and Headmaster Albus Dumbledore, Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge has ordered the Daily Prophet newspaper to print unfavorable stories about the two.  Furthermore, Harry is almost expelled when he performs a spell in order to save his life.  Upon arrival at Hogwarts School, the new Defense of Dark Arts teacher immediately tries to make life miserable for Harry and every other student in the school.  She was employed by the Ministry of Magic and is under strict orders not to teach any defensive spells.  As the year goes on, Harry has a brief dating period with his crush, Cho Chang (emphasis on brief), he begins an \\"illegal\\" Defense Against the Dark Arts club, called Dumbledore's Army, and he gets banned from the Gryffindor Quidditch team.  But these are all overshadowed by Harry's haunting dreams of a strange, dark, corridor, and every time that he has the dream, it gets scarier.  Eventually, when the dream is realized, no words can describe the horrors that await Harry and his friends.  And, on top of it all, Harry's true purpose is revealed.  If you have never read a Harry Potter book before, now is the time.  You must begin with the first one, and read them in order.  I guarantee that you will thoroughly enjoy yourself.	2003-06-24
US	39655071	R9APFXVU28POT	0553574132	967938127	Shadows of the Empire (Star Wars)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Interim of V and VI	Have you ever wondered what happened while Han Solo was frozen, and his friends were searching for him?  If so, you've come to the right place.  Many people would at first glance dismiss this book as a ripoff, or just another part of a stupid franchise, but this really is a great book.  It tells the story of Dash Rendar, a man who looks like, has a similar ship as, and comes from the same planet as Han Solo.  He is commisioned by Leia to watch Luke Skywalker's back, because he is a hunted man.  As you know, Darth Vader wants him alive, but another man, Prince Xixor, wants him dead.  Xixor is the head of an underground crime sydicate called Black Sun, and nothing would please him more than to see Vader fail.  He believes that if Vader slips up, Emporor Palpatine will hire him to be his right-hand-man.  The story follows the lines of Luke and Dash, Leia, Xixor, and Vader as they all try to accomplish their seperate goals.  If you want a great read, try this book.  It won't disappoint you, especially since there is no Jar Jar Binks.	2002-05-14
US	39655071	RGGD71IW3VMF7	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Long Rainbow	This is the only Clancy book that I've actually read, so I can't compare it to any other ones.  I also can't make any comparison to other works with John Clark, because I've only seen movies with Jack Ryan.  Although, Clark and Chavez appeared in the movie (and book as I'm told) Clear and Present Danger, but their characters were butchered.  Anyway, the story goes that Clark and his son-in-law Ding Chavez have been comissioned to start Rainbow, an international anti-terrorist group.  They go around the world stopping terrorist acts, while a secret organization is planning to release a poisoned gas at the Sydney Olympics.  The terrorist battle scenes are great, but the non-action scenes, while necessary, are a little boring at the beginning, but they begin to gain excitement towards the end.  That's another problem though.  The book is almost 900 pages!  It takes a long time to get to the end!  If you love Clancy's other books, you'll probably like this, but if you don't like books that force you to use your brain, you may want to steer clear of this one.	2002-05-12
US	39655071	R2VGRPZ05OY3KD	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Enchanting	J.K. Rowling was an unknown writer wannabe before she wrote the first Harry Potter book.  Now, she is a household name along with millions of dollars, or pounds since she's English.  She never guessed that one little book would bring her this much success, but Harry Potter has become one of modern literature's newest classics.  The story goes that Harry is an orphan who has been growing up with his aunt and uncle, who both despise him, but he can't understand why.  One day, a man shows up and tells Harry that he's a wizard, and what's more, one of the most famous wizards in the world.  When Harry was young, he stopped the worst dark wizard of them all, Lord Voldemort, and almost killed him.  Now Harry has been invited to attend Hogwart's School of Witchcraft and Wizardry to hone his skills.  When he arrives, many adventures await him, including the hatching of a dragon, a chance to play on his dorm's Quidditch (wizard sport) team, and a game of chess where he is one of the pieces.  This book isn't just for kids, my entire family loves these stories, and I guarantee you will too.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R5CD3E7IO31MR	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic	No one has ever escaped from Azkaban, the wizard prison, until now.  Sirius Black was a madman who killed thirteen innocent people with a single curse.  He has now escaped from prison, and the only clue to his whereabouts is that he's been muttering in his sleep, \\"He's at Hogwarts\\".  Black was believed to be Voldemort's right-hand-man, and when Harry Potter defeated him, Black's downfall was assured.  Harry and his friends have returned to Hogwarts for their third year of school, and are met with Dementors, the guards at Azkaban.  Until Black is caught, the Dementors will patrol the grounds, and that is a problem for Harry because they exert a special power upon him that makes him pass out.  As ususal, Rowling is a master of storytelling, and you'll never want to put this book down until it's all over.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R2XQZPBUTSWV37	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Prequel That Started It All	If the names Bilbo Baggins and Gandalf the wizard don't mean anything to you, READ THIS REVIEW, THEN GO READ THE HOBBIT!  This is a fantastic story that will keep you hooked until the end.  It tells the story of Bilbo, a hobbit, or midget, who goes on adventure with thirteen dwarves in search of a treasure that was taken from the dwarves by Smaug the Dragon.  For most of the trip, they are accompanied by Gandalf, a mighty wizard who got Bilbo to sign up for the trip.  Along the way, Bilbo finds a special ring that makes its wearer invisible.  He &quot;wins&quot; this treasure from a creature called Gollum, who swears revenge on Bilbo's family when Bilbo escapes.  The troop has many great adventures with goblins, elves, wolves, trolls, and giant spiders!  If you've never read this book, do yourself a favor and read this A.S.A.P.  Then go read Lord of the Rings.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R3RW1RWJJGSZ40	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Part One of One of the Greatest Trilogies in HISTORY!	Power corrupts.  Absolute power corrupts absolutely.  This is the grim lesson learned by many who have sought the One Ring Of Power, a relic with powers of astonishing magnitude.  Anyone who has ever possessed it has succumbed to its power...  Except one.  Frodo Baggins is the nephew of Bilbo Baggins from The Hobbit.  The ring that Bilbo found in that story is the One Ring, which was thought to be lost for centuries.  Frodo is asked by Gandalf the Wizard to deliver the Ring to the town of Rivendell so that a council can decide how to destroy it before its maker Sauron revives himself and reclaims the Ring, then destroys the world.  At the council, no one can agree on who should be the \\"Ring-Bearer\\" and bring the Ring to Mordor so that it can be destroyed.  Along with Frodo go eight others, who are dubbed the Fellowship of the Ring.  This includes Gandalf the Wizard, Aragorn and Boromir, the humans, Legolas, the elf, Gimli, the dwarf, and the hobbits, Merry, Pippin, and Sam.  But this is no easy task.  Ringwraiths, trapped spirits forced to serve Sauron, are relentlessly searching for the Fellowship.  What's more, Saruman (not to be confused with Sauron), a former ally, has become corrupt and obssesses over the Ring, and wants its power for himself.  This is a great book, so if you haven't read it, at least check it out.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R3150K67PQIC62	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Wondrous	A year has passed, and Harry is on his way back to Hogwarts.  But before he leaves, a mysterious creature arrives and warns him about dangers that will occur if he returns to Hogwarts, but Harry pays no attention to him and goes back to school.  When he gets there, mysterious things begin to happen.  Threatning messages start to appear, and one of them claims that the \\"Chamber of Secrets\\" has been opened, but those who know about the Chamber don't believe it to be true.  Now Harry and his friends must solve the mystery to the Chamber, because whatever has been released is turning Hogwarts students into stone statues, and Harry is hearing strange, bodyless voices.  This book is darker than the first one, and it delves into Harry's and Voldemort's pasts.  This is another winner written by Ms. J.K. Rowling.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R48UIUPSLSHLV	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Astounding	In this new book, we start off with Harry having a dream about a chilling tale involving a murder in a small town with links to Voldemort himself, but is it all just a dream?  After attending the Quidditch World Cup with his friends, Harry returns to Hogwarts and learns that an interscholastic tournament that has been banned for centuries will be started up again, with Hogwarts hosting.  Each school will have a champion selected by the Goblet of Fire, which will choose the most worthy student from each school.  However, something goes wrong, and it chooses four students instead of three, the fourth being Harry.  Bound by magical code to stay in the tournament, Harry is forced to take on challenges that are deemed to difficult for anyone under a sixth year in school.  Things are going well until the last event, when something unexpected happens, and Harry witnesses one of the most horrible things imanginable...  For the fourth time, Rowling provides us with a great story, great laughs, and an overall great time.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R1ZSWRCTOJD23A	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Part Two of one the Greatest Trilogies In HISTORY	Gandalf is gone.  Boromir is dying.  Frodo and Sam are gone, and the rest of the Fellowship has been disbanded.  Things couldn't be worse for the 9.  But things eventually begin to go up.  Frodo and Sam encounter Gollum, the creature that Bilbo took the Ring from, and he promises that he'll help them get to Mordor to destroy the Ring.  However, things and people aren't always what or who they seem to be.  Aragorn, Legolas, and Gimli search for Merry and Pippin who were captured by Orcs.  Gandalf returns to help them in their search, and plans to take on Saruman in a duel to get at least one enemy out of the way.  Merry and Pippin meet up with the Ents, a species of talking trees, and they agree to help in the fight against Saruman because of Saruman's tendency to kill trees.  Meanwhile, Frodo, Sam, and Gollum meet Faramir, Boromir's brother, and then they are off to Mordor.  But when they get there, things go horribly wrong...  Once again, this is an amazing story, and if you liked Part 1, continue with this one.	2002-05-11
US	39655071	R29OTOXION02WM	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Part Three of one of the Greatest Trilogies In HISTORY	Frodo is presumed dead.  Pippin is in trouble with the Nazgul.  And Sauron is gaining power.  This is the amazing conclusion to J.R.R. Tolkien's legendary trilogy.  Merry becomes a soldier of Rohan, and Pippin becomes one of Gondor, Boromir's home town.  Both of these armies prepare for an upcoming battle with Sauron's army of orcs and Ringwraiths.  Along with them are Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and Gandalf.  Meanwhile, in Mordor, Frodo and Sam have been betrayed by Gollum, and Frodo is in the hands of Orcs.  But soon Sam frees him, and they are off again to Mount Doom to toss the Ring into the magma and destroy it.  Gollum makes one more appearance, but what happens I'll let you find out.  But is the ordeal in Mordor really the end?  What has happened to Saruman?  What's going on back in the Shire?	2002-05-11
