US	39702568	R2DK5K25RNMUHF	0870695789	859801066	Stereo Views: An Illustrated History and Price Guide	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Superb Book on Stereo Views - and Viewmaster reels	This is an excellent history of the 19th and early 20th century phenomeon \\"stereo views\\" in which two copies of a photograph were produced on a letter-sized card and viewed through a hand-held viewer to see the picture in 3-D effect.  You still see these old photo cards occasionally at flea markets and antique shops and they have been avidly collected for generations although this form of entertainment died out around the 1920's.  Mr. Waldsmith gives us detailed listings of many of the stereo view cards, price value, and information on many photographers.  A wonderful bonus for the baby  boom generation is the inclusion of the history of Viewmasters, the \\"updated\\" version of SVs a fond memory for children for over 50 years and still being issued today.  Waldsmith includes a complete list of Viewmaster photo reels and packets issued up through the book's publication as well as the less popular rivals of Viewmaster in the past.  Highly recommended even if you don't collect either stereo views or viewmaster reels and invaluable if you do.	2005-09-30
US	39702568	R3IX0OUSJ7OTB5	0313265488	673395367	French Women Writers: A Bio-Bibliographical Source Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magnificent Reference Book	This book is extraordinary!! 51 major French female authors spanning from \\"The trobairitz\\" (c. 1170-1260) to Julia Kristeva (born 1941) are profiled with a highly informative biography, major themes (her subjects), and survey of criticism.  Each ends with a bibliography including books that are translations of the author published in English and studies published on the author.  These women are so fascinating you will probably agree with British legend George Eliot that \\"...in France alone if the writings of women were to be swept away, a serious gap would be made ni the national history.\\"  The women writers profiled here are Marie d'Agoult, SImone de Beauvoir, Isabelle de Charriere, Andree Chedid, Christine de Pizan, Colette, Sophie Cottin, Hellisenne de Crenne, Lucie Delarue-Mardrus, Marceline Desbordes-Valmore, Marie de Vichy-Chamrond, Marquise du Deffand; Pernette du Guillet, Claire de Duras, Judith Gautier, Stephanie-Felicite, Contesse de Genlis; Delphine Gay de Girardin, Marie Le Jars de Gournay, Francoise d'lessembourg d' Happoncourt de Graffigny, Benoite Groult, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Juliane von Krudener, Louise Labe, Marie-Madeleine Pioche de La Vergne, Comtesse de Lafayette; Violette Leduc, Julie de Lespinasse, Francoise Mallet-Joris, Marguerite de Navarre, Marie de France, Anan de Noailles, Rachilde, Marie Jeanne Riccoboni, Christiane Rochefort, Marie Jeanne Philipon (Manon) Roland de la Platiere, Francoise Sagan, George Sand, Nathalie Sarraute, ALbertine Sarrazin, Madeleine de Scudery, Sophie Rostopchine, Comtesse de Segur; Marie de Rabutin-Chantal, Marquise de Sevigne; Germaine Necker, Baronne de Stael; Claudine-Alexandrine Guerin de Tencin, Flora Tristan, The Trobairitz, Marie-Catherine Desjardins de Villedieu, Simone Weil, Monique Wittig, and Marguerite Yourcenar.  Each of these women enjoys an informative essay written by a scholar, most women themselves.  It's sad so many of these icons of French literature have so few of their works now published in English, indeed many have yet to enjoy an English translation and several have not English editions published in two centuries!  Even a legend like George Sand has not nearly enough of her work available on the American market.  Even if you've never read a word published by many of these authors, you will no doubt be inspired by their gifts, their humanity (many were actively inviolved in charity work and progessive causes), and I strongly suspect you will seek out the works of at least a few of the authors which is the best compliment you can give a literary historian.ublished in English, indeed many have yet to enjoy an English translation and several have not English editions published in two centuries!  Even a legend like George Sand has not nearly enough of her work available on the American market.   Even if you've never read a word published by many of these authors, you will no doubt be inspired by their gifts, their humanity (many were actively inviolved in charity work and progessive causes), and I strongly suspect you will seek out the works of at least a few of the authors which is the best compliment you can give a literary historian.	2005-09-11
US	39702568	R2LY8093X87P7H	0819562912	838477725	A Woman's View: How Hollywood Spoke to Women, 1930-1960	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Any Book That Will Quote A Cleo Moore Film Deserves 5 Stars	This is one of the most enjoyable \\"film studies\\" I have ever come across, essentially about \\"soap opera\\" 'women's pictures' of the 1930's and 1940's but expanding into the 1920's and 1950's a  bit and touching on other types of films and the great women stars from this time period.  From Kay Francis (who is the cover girl and Basinger's main muse for this tome) to Rita Hayworth, this is a wonderful book for any one obssessed with films from the era, it's like finding a new best friend to talk about these classic films.  Basinger writes informatively yet in plain academic-free language making the book a pleasuer to read - and she knows when to crack wise and when to be serious, no mean feat.  It's a skill a lot of \\"movie historians\\" don't have.	2005-09-11
US	39702568	R2RZHTXIMS4G7I	0375411178	82807879	Design for Living: Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne	Books	1	22	27	N	N	Lovely People Exploited in Very Dubious "Biography"	Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne were the greatest star couple of the American theater of the 20th century, probably of all time.  Their careers span over a half century and they were beloved within their industry for their great kindness, outgoing friendliness, and awesome talent.  Their private lives were quiet, scandal-free, and they seem the least possible of celebrities to write a tawdry book about which doesn't stop Ms. Margot Peters.  The heart, if you can call it a heart, of this book is that this legendarily devoted couple were in fact both homosexuals and theirs was an \\"arranged\\" marriage.  This is old gossip, the type that almost 100 percent of actors who make any sort of name for themselves in show business receives.  Peters fails to even name a single same-sex lover of either star but doesn't stop her from pushing this theme.  Among her sources: One critic overhears some teenaged bimbo in the 1950's, looking at a theater poster, saying Alfred likes guys and Lynn likes girls.  Ms. Peters writes of this incident as if it was a source!!  The Lunts had scores of friends, many of them gay, yet Peters cannot find a single person in the loop who acknowledges they were gay. Indeed, Ms. Peters makes the worst sort of homophobic comment when noting their gay friends as some sort of evidence this makes the Lunts gay as if straight people couldn't possibly befriend homosexuals.  Nor does she acknowledge it was not really necessarily for a theater star to pretend to be straight in that era when several gay stars (among them Eva La Gallienne and the Lunts' great friend Noel Coward) were able to live in peace since the general public was not as interested in the private lives of theater greats as they were in movie stars. (And Coward's private diaries suggest nothing of any secret life going on with the Lunts which he certainly would have written about there given his other indiscreet remarks on celebrities.) Certainly if the Lunts were gay, wouldn't they spend at least some degree of their time off having romances which could have been carried off with ease, yet they were basically joined at the hip, their devotion as legendary as their talent.  Reading some of Peters' comments one can reason she herself doesn't completely believe they were gay but she is not about to let that rumor go since it's a good publicity angle for the book.<br /><br />And then there's the curious discreet hostility Peters has for Fontanne, yet she can come up with nothing to base this criticism like a rude diva-like personality or anything.  Lunt is clearly her favorite of the duo.  Worse is Peters constant arm chair psychology, following quotes by the actors with her intrepretation of what they \\"really\\" mean.<br /><br />The Lunts left tragically little recorded work of their talents  and sadly their legend grows a little dimmer each year.  What a shame Margot Peters has chosen to taken a tabloidish spin on the private lives of two artists the likes of which the theater will likely never see again.some degree of their time off having romances which could have been carried off with ease, yet they were basically joined at the hip, their devotion as legendary as their talent.  Reading some of Peters' comments one can reason she herself doesn't completely believe they were gay but she is not about to let that rumor go since it's a good publicity angle for the book.    And then there's the curious discreet hostility Peters has for Fontanne, yet she can come up with nothing to base this criticism like a rude diva-like personality or anything.  Lunt is clearly her favorite of the duo.  Worse is Peters constant arm chair psychology, following quotes by the actors with her intrepretation of what they \\"really\\" mean.      The Lunts left tragically little recorded work of their talents  and sadly their legend grows a little dimmer each year.  What a shame Margot Peters has chosen to taken a tabloidish spin on the private lives of two artists the likes of which the theater will likely never see again.	2005-09-08
US	39702568	R1G0YA8BOXMB9L	1589802969	207072581	Ken and Thelma: The Story of A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Mainly Thelma's Story But That's Enough	This little book (and it is little in both page count and size, note the dimensions) is quite charming but in some ways disappointing.  The author was a friend of John Kennedy Toole but theirs does not seem to have been a friendship close enough to share any real intimacy beyond casual letters and hanging out together at times.  The real star of this book is not Toole but his mother, the defiantely eccentric yet amazingly heroic and strong Thelma Toole who became very much a Louisiana legend following the posthumous publication of her son's A CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES in 1980 up to her death in 1983.  Stopping by Ms. Toole's home to congratulate her on the book's success, the author quickly became something of a surrogate son to Thelma, chaperoning her to events and even to New York for an appearance on NBC's TOMORROW talk show.  And as such the book is invaluable in giving of a glimpse on this willful woman who would not let her son's work sit unpublished despite almost a decade of rejection.  Although Fletcher seems most concerned about that \\"other\\" book's presumptions about Toole's private life, to me it's most appalling point was it's vicious cartoonish take on Thelma who is made a fool on almost every page with no redeeming qualities.  Fletcher saw her flaws (and bluntly says he is glad she was not HIS mother) but he also recognized the strength and humanity in her. And some of her crabbing most definately seems justified.  One wishes Fletcher could tell us a little more about Toole but it appears JKT was exceptionally remote even among friends.<br /><br />Although many have long lamented the long, to date unsuccessful, road to get a film made of CONFEDERACY OF DUNCES filmed (and with the recent tragedy of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, a film version seems almost impossible to be produced for untold number of years), I personally am most dissapointed in the seeming lack of interest in the author beyond Louisiana borders despite COD's best-selling status and critical acclaim. The two books on Toole to date where both published in Louisiana, the reviews to both overwhelmingly are also from within the state.  Where are the academic volumes on Toole to say nothing of a major biography?  If books can be written on authors from two centuries ago, certainly someone could do a major work on this writer despite his early death and bibliography limited to two posthumous works.ritical acclaim. The two books on Toole to date where both published in Louisiana, the reviews to both overwhelmingly are also from within the state.  Where are the academic volumes on Toole to say nothing of a major biography?  If books can be written on authors from two centuries ago, certainly someone could do a major work on this writer despite his early death and bibliography limited to two posthumous works.	2005-09-08
US	39702568	R2XDQF1QB4JT5C	0440106621	444052832	Bette: The Life of Bette Davis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Suprisingly good Davis Biography	This is an excellent well-written look at Bette Davis' life and career up to 1981 when it was published.  Author Charles Higham is somewhat notorious for his more controversial biographies such as the one on Errol Flynn but this one on Davis has it's feet on the ground (although his allegations that Joan Crawford lusted after Davis were quite shocking to many back then and denied by some).  It was also the first book on Davis that punctured her carefully constructed image as a serene grande dame of films off the screen and the first to write of her romances with Howard Hughes and William Wyler.  Even with opening the door on some aspects of Davis' life, he is fairly respectful and seems to admire her courage and strength.  Davis herself did not knock the book which should say something.  Try to get a hardcover version with the gorgeous pop artwork dustjacket of Davis from her ALL ABOUT EVE era.	2005-09-06
US	39702568	R1F2OKQ7O7KVPB	0878058656	398219157	More Conversations with Eudora Welty (Literary Conversations Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good Conversation with a Great Author	Eudora Welty is I believe the only author to be honored with a second volume in the \\"Conversations with\\" series published by Univerisity of Mississippi - but that has less to do with state pride on their queen of letters than the fact that Welty thoroughly deserves a second volume, not only because of her importance as a writer but because of her keen insights on writing, literature, and life.  Ever gracious, she always went out of her way for an interviewer,  never treating journalists as if they were pests that had to be dealt with on occasion like some writers.  I confess I enjoy reading about Miss Welty almost as much as I do reading her own works, it's so rare to find a major author with such humanity, good humor, and grace.  Aspiring authors would do well not just to study her work but to study the woman,  Miss Welty was a role model on every level.	2005-05-11
US	39702568	R2DA7VMP0G30EV	0060957948	681633216	Way to Go, Smith	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Way to Go Indeed!!!	I bought this book at a dollar store and it was worth every penny.  Oh well, now that you've suffered through my lame attempt at humor move on to Bob Smith's genuinely funny and frequently moving collection of memories of childhood and busted romances.  I usually avoid humor books of this sort (the authors usually concoct nothing out of nothing) but Smith has a engaging style of writing and vivid insights that can really take you back to your childhood, especially if you are in the same age range as him. The funniest are his memories of his fourth grade teacher, Mr. McGaffin.  \\"I quickly realized one of the benefits of having a male teacher was that I could look at Mr. McGaffin as much I wanted while he taught...I studied Mr. McGaffin as if I was going to be tested on the geography of his face.\\"  Later that year, Smith discovers his semi-conscious crush has a \\"friend\\" Jeffrey and is curious about their relationship but too shy to pry, fortunately for him he is around when \\"Debbie Gruber...a loudmouthed girl and every thought that came into her head fell from her mouth like a letter through a mail slot\\" bluntly asked \\"Mr. McGuffin, do you live with Jeffrey?\\"  Later, Smith learns the men live nearby his home and rides  by their own their bike and spots Mr. McGuffin mowing the lawn. \\"I regretted I hadn't asked the inquisitive Debbie Gruber to tag along.  She would have demanded, 'Can we see the inside of your house?'\\"<br /><br />This book is so funny I might save up a dollar and buy his other one.	2005-05-09
US	39702568	RDGG0DUIZI8TH	0820313408	351972335	Katherine Anne Porter: A Life (Brown Thrasher Books Ser.)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fascinating Intimate Look at an Acclaimed Author	Katherine Anne Porter was as fascinating a character as any fictional work she ever created.  Self-educated, she wrote some of the most complex and well-crafted short stories of her time and concocted a personal image of glamour and refinement despite her very modest origins.  As multi-married as a movie queen, she bewitched dozens of men, marrying some of them decades her junior.  Hindsight has withered the illusion of her physical appeal, despite all the talk of her beauty, her photographs to contemporary non-bewitched eyes reveal a woman deep into middle age despite her chic poses.  Past forty when she burst on to the literary scene in the 1930's, Porter live in genteel poverty until she hit the jackpot in her seventies with epic novel A SHIP OF FOOLS earning her millions.  She would go on for almost another two decades before she died at age 90 in 1980.  Sharply opinionated and seemingly easy to anger, Porter nevertheless could be a great friend as she was to Robert Penn Warren and the novice Eudora Welty.  This book is a fascinating, detailed account of her long life.  Author Givner has since taken a more negative personal view of Porter in other works, fortunately here she seems to admire this woman who carved a major place in the world of letters for herself from very humble beginnings.	2005-05-09
US	39702568	R3HDCGIQU3X5YR	0300054149	420926824	Tennessee Williams: Everyone Else Is an Audience	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Best Books on Tennessee Williams	It's a crime this book is so little known even by admirers of Tennessee Williams.  Although published by an academic publishers, it's a straightforward biography, deeply researched and printed on excellent paper stock with many rare photographs.  Mr. Williams' sad personal decline and personal shortcomings are not ignored but this clear-eyed book also celebrates the genius that he was.  This is one of the best written accounts on the greatest playwright America has ever produced.	2005-05-09
US	39702568	R2T0LJDRIV2288	0515041947	224416427	Lana Turner (A Pyramid Illustrated History of the Movies)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Lana Gets Her Due	This book is a must for Lana Turner fans and even for people like me who like her but have many others who are bigger favorites.  This is a lavishly illustrated paperback that critiques Turner's career up to 1976.  Basinger is clearly a fan of Turner's and is never really harsh on any of Turner's performances or even films (with a couple of exceptions from late in her career like THE BIG CUBE); Lana was obviously pleased as she referred to Basinger's comments once or twice in her 1982 autobiography!!  It's nice to read something so upbeat on a lady who had often had such turmoil in her life.	2005-04-18
US	39702568	RDJOUZYNSYRGC	0226318850	655512395	From Reverence to Rape: The Treatment of Women in the Movies	Books	1	4	16	N	N	Absolutely Awful and Totally Dated	This is one of the least enjoyable books on films you will ever come across.  Totally dry and bland, Haskell just runs through women's history in motion pictures with thumbnail descriptions of classic films and the like, never really giving us the essence of any major female stars or even good analysis on specific films.  Don't take my word for it - check it out at the library and read it for yourself.  Bet you don't finish it!!	2005-04-18
US	39702568	R3LFTXW6E91RE	0385128193	748250511	More Fabulous Faces: The Evolution and Metamorphosis of Bette Davis, Katharine Hepburn, Dolores Del Rio, Carole Lombard and Myrna Loy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	One of the Most Beautiful Collections of Actress Photos	I have loved this book for over 25 years now.  I still have my copy I acquired when I was a teenager, the dust jacket is long gone but the book is still cherished.  These are five extraordinary women in film history.  This book is not as lavish as Larry Carr's first book FOUR FABULOUS FACES (on Crawford, Garbo, Dietrich, and Swanson)but it's an awesome collection of pictures and a good introduction to these stars.  I've always felt Davis and Hepburn may have been included for their still being household names and good selling points for the book, though they certainly deserve to be in here, Carr is clearly not as enthusiastic about them as the other ladies and Davis particularly gets a bit of criticism that is sound but seems a little inappropiate given the way he praises Del Rio, Loy, and Lombard to the skies.  This was actually the first book published that I can recall that took Davis to task for her ego and allegedly troublesome behaviour. Nevertheless, only a fool would deny Bette Davis is one of the five greatest women stars in film history, and most would say she is in the top two or even number one.  The only woman who can compare with her is Katharine Hepburn and while Carr mentions a quirk or two of Hepburn's he is generally highly complementary.  Carole Lombard had a major revival in the 1970's and Carr is right there with the crowd praising her elegance and wonderful comic talent; the cooly glamorous Myrna Loy is clearly another major favorite of Carr's, although recognized as a superstar, she is not written about on the level of Hepburn and Davis or even Lombard so it's especially nice to see her getting her due.  And then there is Dolores Del Rio.  I had never seen her before I got this book 25 years ago, probably never had even heard of her.  Back then, I kind of resented someone I was not familiar with at all was put on a pedestal with these mega superstars.  Well, I am pleased to say I got over my ignorance, today I absolute love Dolores Del Rio and recognize her awesome, almost peerless beauty.  She was also an excellent actress and quite a historically important one given her trailblazing career as a Hispanic star.  She most definately is a \\"fabulous face\\" and one that deserves to be recognized one of the most dignified and breathtakingly beautiful women motion pictures will ever know. This book is a must for anyone who loves the golden era of Hollywood.recognize her awesome, almost peerless beauty.  She was also an excellent actress and quite a historically important one given her trailblazing career as a Hispanic star.  She most definately is a \\"fabulous face\\" and one that deserves to be recognized one of the most dignified and breathtakingly beautiful women motion pictures will ever know. This book is a must for anyone who loves the golden era of Hollywood.	2005-04-18
US	39702568	R1J1GVOZIVOUN4	0762410582	139495136	I Love Lucy: The Official 50th Anniversary Tribute	Books	2	4	7	N	Y	A Lucy Book Not to Love	With so many Lucy books out there, you would think the author and publishers would try to make a knockout book to stand apart from the competition.  Amazingly, this book \\"authorized by CBS Broadcasting Inc. and the Estates of Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz\\" is one of the weakest books on Ball and/or LUCY I've ever seen!!  Let's start with the photos.  As many have mentioned, their reproduction is just awful.  They resemble pictures in a vintage tabloid or cheaply printed pulp magazine from years past.  The sepia tinting (black and white photos colored one color) might not have been so bad had the images been sharper (despite the fact that \\"sepia\\" photos were not in fashion in the 50's but in the 20's and 30's!!!); the photos that are very small here you can barely make out the subject's faces!  The publishers/designers may have been going for a vintage look but it's not appropiate to the 1950's and even if it was, it's just not appealing in a 21st century book.<br /><br />The bulk of the book consists of pages on each \\"I Love Lucy\\" episode with a brief paragraph describing the plot and a bunch of trivia questions.  \\"Trivia questions\\" belong in paperbacks not an expensive book and it's clear they are only here for padding the pages.  Anyone who needs to know anything about the I Love Lucy episodes will find everything they need and then some in Bart Andrews \\"I Love Lucy\\" book, you certainly won't get any major new information here.<br /><br />The only nice things in this book are the interviews with Keith Thibodeaux (\\"Little Ricky\\") and writers Jess Oppenheimer, Madelyn Pugh, and Bob Carroll Jr.  The photos of latterday Lucy memorabilia are ok but nothing special.<br /><br />Lucy diehards want all the books on her of course but unless you find a copy of it super cheap, make this one close to the bottom of your want list.	2005-04-11
US	39702568	R30Y3YYWF3SC1	0312499752	662165738	Loving Lucy: An Illustrated Tribute to Lucille Ball	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the Best Lucy Books Ever	This is a wonderful profusely illustrated book on the life of the great star Lucille Ball.  One of the few books to look at her full career, not just her television success, it has many rare photos from her exceptionally long film career as well as her pioneering television work.  The back cover color photo of a 30ish Lucy is worth the price of the book alone!!  One of the top five books to own on this wonderful woman.	2005-04-11
US	39702568	RVDDGZEVI8HUG	0515038687	35072447	Mae West (Illustrated History of the Movies)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic Little Gem on Legendary Mae	This is a softcover, profusely illustrated book about 5x7\\" in size on the career of Mae West with analysis on her first eleven films (her final one, SEXTETTE, had not yet been made when the book was published in 1975.)  Bavar does very well with her writings on the films but the photo collection would make this one a five-star book even if the text was not so great.  Essential for any Mae West library.	2005-04-03
US	39702568	R28X03KPU0MY3B	0313247161	265036149	Mae West: A Bio-Bibliography (Popular Culture Bio-Bibliographies)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Career Study of an American Icon	This book is quite expensive but after all it was written mainly for academic libraries, not really for purchases by the general public.  If you want a standard \\"biography\\" with a ton of photos and a dust jacket, this is not for you.  If you are interested in a serious examination of this one-of-a-kind star, you could not do better.  Several other authors have tried to do this with more mainstream books on West, but Ward is unmatched in looking at West from the eyes of a historian and a critic.  She is also clearly admires West's accomplishments but is never fawning.  An outstanding work.	2005-04-03
US	39702568	R2522TAARIIKAJ	1401601146	837967994	Saturday Nights With Daddy at the Opry	Books	2	1	5	N	Y	Very dissappointing	This promises to be something of a backstage look at the Grand Ole Opry, instead it's a more of a personal memoir with comments about country stars the author has known.  While she writes quite a bit about Minnie Pearl, Grandpa Jones, Tex Ritter (hence the foreward is written by Tom & John Ritter, shortly before John's death), Dolly Parton,  Porter Wagoner, Bill Monroe, Loretta Lynn, and John Hartford, and a few others are pictured and briefly commented on (Marty Stuart, Stringbean, Ricky Skaggs, The Whites, etc.) there are scores of Opry stars that don't even merit a mention.  And over 35 of the \\"over 100 photographs\\" in the book are exclusively of Leverett-Crew's family without a star in the picture!  And that's not counting the hefty amount of pictures that are with stars that also picture family members.  Too bad the author did not just make this a book a history of her father's career (Les Leverett, a famed country music photographer) instead of this effort.	2005-04-01
US	39702568	RJOZY96RHK4P8	0393075087	508937838	Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks: The most popular couple the world has ever known	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent Biography on Silent Legends	This is a very fine, deeply researched biography on the most popular celebrity couple of the 1920's, movie legends Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks.  Many great and rare photos illustrate the book.  Far superior to the other Doug/Mary book, this is one of the \\"must haves\\" for any silent film book library.	2005-03-27
US	39702568	R1RIDPPF1DWQSS	0891457054	97642778	Collector's Guide to TV Memorabilia 1960s & 1970s: Identification and Values (Collector's Guide to TV Toys & Memorabilia)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Really Fun Book of Vintage TV Memorabilia	I don't really collect this sort of stuff but I loved this book because it brought back my childhood buying Beverly Hillbillies viewmaster sets, Charlie's Angels puzzles, etc.  Contains hundreds of color photos of all sorts of merchandise: TV Guides, dolls, comic books, lunch boxes, coloring books, records, cups, all sorts of toys, etc. The shows profiled with memorabilia are The Beverly Hillbillies, Bewitched, Bionic WOman, Brady Bunch, Bugaloos, Charlie's Angels, Chips, Donny and Marie, Eight is Enough, Family, Family Affair, Fantasy Island, Flipper, Flying Nun, Gidget, Gilligan's Island, Good Times, Green Acres, H. R. Pufnstuf, Happy Days, Hardy Boys, I Dream of Jeannie, Josie and the Pussycats, Julia, Krofft Supershow, Kung Fu, Land of the Lost, Laverne and Shirley, Lidsville, Life & Times of Grizzly Adams, Little House on the Prairie, Love Boat, Mod Squad, Mork and Mindy, Nanny and the Professor, New Zoo Revue, Patridge Family, Patty Duke Show, Sigmund and the Sea Monsters, Six Million Dollar Man, Starsky & Hutch, That Girl, Three's Company, The Waltons, Welcome Back Kotter, Wonder Woman.  There are estimated values for the items circa 1997 but I would argue few have really gone up since then due to the phenomeon of ebay where tons of this sort of stuff is now on the market and even if you don't collect it's a wonderful look back at when TV shows really merchandised to the hilt.  The guys have an awesome collection!	2005-03-27
US	39702568	RWODXQ6Y52UOV	B0006AU3U6	937125152	Sunshine And Shadow	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent Autobiography of the Queen of Silent Films	Mary Pickford wrote this fine autobiography back in the 1950's and it was a huge best-seller.  Often unfairly knocked by later historians (especially Pickford biographers) mainly for the lack of undiluted intimacy, those critics fail to take in to count the era it was published.  It's a superb history of her unparalled stardom (you will note those most of those same critics nevertheless use her book to an outrageous degree for the sources of information of their later efforts).  I feel the woman who the world loved in the 1910's and 1920's at level it never would another movie star very much comes through the pages of this lovely book.	2005-03-27
US	39702568	R101YFDAVF6II2	0385190336	125933554	The "I Love Lucy" Book: Including a Revised, Expanded, and Updated Version of Lucy & Ricky & Fred & Ethel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First Book on the Series and Still the Best	This was the first book ever written on the classic I LOVE LUCY series (possibly the first book ever written about a single television series) and it's still the best.  I am currently on my second copy of it, my old paperback now replaced by the latest updated version. Stands up beautifully a quarter of a century after it was written. It's not a gossip fest or a academic study, just a straight-forward and detailed look at America's most beloved tv show and certainly it's most gifted television star.  Way to go Bart!	2005-03-16
US	39702568	R1GIM7RSMI02S5	0887405711	977356331	Hollywood Collectibles: The Sequel : With Price Guide	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Beautiful Book on Movie Memorabilia	This is a sequel to Dian Zillner's 1991 book on the same subject, collecting movie star memorabilia, vintage magazines, posters, photos, dolls, etc. of movie stars.  This book, like the first, is not really about collecting movie memorabilia in general but material on specific stars.  Zillner opens this book with profiles and photos of memorabilia on arguably the six most collectible stars: Marilyn Monroe, Lucille Ball, Elvis Presley, Roy Rogers, Elizabeth Taylor, and Shirley Temple (Temple dominates the book as pages 69 to 102 are all on her).  (Jean Harlow, James Dean, John Wayne, and the Beatles are mentioned in the foreward as highly collectible but they are NOT in this book or profiled.)  Then the bulk of the book is on Zillner's apparent speciality, collecting child stars (child stars also dominated the first book with several of the same stars in both books albeit different merchandise).  Each of the following has a chapter with photos of memorabilia: Freddie Barholomew, Joan Carroll, Jackie Coogan, Dionne Quints, Judy Garland, Baby Sandy Sandra Henville, Gloria Jean, Carolyn Lee, Roddy McDowell, Baby Peggy Montgomery, Margaret O'Brien, Donald O'Connor, Our Gang, Mickey Rooney, Viginia Weidler, Jane Withers. The memorabilia in this section leans heavily towards dolls, paper dolls, children's books, toys, and products that were marketed to children in the era as opposed to magazines, photos, sheet music,  and posters like the grownup stars. Some of the merchandise is quite rare (I had no idea memorabilia on the short careers of Carolyn Lee and Joan Carroll existed).  If you collect or have an interest in any of the stars or child actors listed you might want to check this book out.  This is not a newly published book but Zillner avoids dollar values for the memorabilia which keeps the book from being dated, it's basically a illustrated book on vintage movie memorabilia. The Schiffer books are quite attractive pictorials of antiques and collectibles.	2005-02-25
US	39702568	REEDLCDQAPCX8	0806513594	741423243	The Complete Films Of Mae West (Citadel Film Series)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	He Done Her Right (Except for the Revision)	THE original FILMS OF MAE WEST was one of the best entries in the Citadel film series.  Originally published in the early 70's when Mae was still alive and active (one film yet to be made!) it's both admiring and serious, fan-oriented and scholarly.  Since Mae only made 11 pictures at that point, each movie gets far more attention that films in other volumes where the star made 60 or  more.  Tuska clearly admired Mae  at the time (he even heaps praise of the widely trashed MYRA BRECKENRIDGE, accurately predicting it would become a cult film!)  Alas, he apparently had a falling out with West or something because in his update for the edition after her death he  brutally trashes her last film, the genteel rather enjoyable sex comedy SEXTETTE as well as her performance, makes comments about her personal abilities in her final years that are unkind and rude, and tacks on a final essay on her that seems dismissive.  I would give the book five stars if not for these \\"revisions\\".	2005-02-23
US	39702568	R1T7CZGAH0JCA3	0600361721	34309698	Marilyn Monroe - A Life on Film	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Beautiful Pictorial on Marilyn	This was one of the first pictorial books on Marilyn devoted strictly to her legendary career not gossip or speculation.  Very beautiful with several color photos and many rare shots.  The late John Kobal was one of the best film writers of the 70's and well known for his vast photo collection.  Also the first MM book to pay notice to the other blondes who followed in her wake with a photo of each of her major \\"imitators\\": Jayne Mansfield, Mamie Van Doren, Cleo Moore, Sheree North, etc.	2005-02-23
US	39702568	R207H0RM6ZI4NX	0883651653	625304397	Marilyn Monroe (The Pictorial treasury of film stars)	Books	1	8	8	N	N	Worst Book Ever Written on Marilyn	This very dated feminist criticism against Marilyn Monroe and her films is totally inappropiate for the Pyramid illustated movies series.  Mellen's text boils over with hostility toward Marilyn, ridiculing virtually all of her film performances and only praising brief moments in a film. Even the book's dedication contains a slam against Marilyn. I  wonder what Ms. Mellen thought when the queen bee of feminists, Gloria Steinem, came out with a VERY sympathetic book to Marilyn a decade later. If you are a Marilyn completist, you might want this book but make it one of your LAST purchases.	2005-02-23
US	39702568	R1IHLAYI8J3Y8D	0966427254	715369600	Starstruck: Photographs from a Fan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fascinating Collection of a Fan's Candid Photography	This book is one of the most touching things I have ever read about what it's like to be a show business fan.  Gary Lee Boas has taken thousands of snapshots of celebrities from Ronald Reagan to Tina Turner, Lynn Fontanne to Loretta Lynn - most of the time taking just one or two pictures at a time!!  This is an amazing story about his hobby that anybody who ever had a crush on a movie star or made a celebrity scrapbook, collected memorabilia or even just had a favorite actor will probably see a bit of themselves.  As pointed out in the foreward, this was an innocent era, the 60's and 70's (and a few from the early 80's), when stars were much more approachable although it could be argued since most of those pictured here were a bit past their glory days they were perhaps more within reach than had they been box office superstars at the time (although a few here were really big at the time of the photos).  From porn stars to Miss Americas, Hollywood icons to commercial pitchmen, Boas discriminated not a bit and took pictures of them all.  There are also some moving stories of some of the encounters along the way; Richard Nixon seemingly eager for the company,  Hedy Lamarr startled that anyone would recognize her, Elizabeth Montgomery stumbling upon her father's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and asking Gary to take a picture of her with it and send it to her.  It does seem though that the publishers deliberately went for the \\"amateur photo\\" look and chose many pictures somewhat out of focus, red eyes, and/or wind-blown hair.  The dozens of mini pix unidentified on the front and back end pages suggest he had a better average at taking good pictures than the bigger shots in the book would have you believe.  It's a one of a kind collection and thanks to Gary the world can see it now.	2004-09-22
US	39702568	R19HACXGBQF52V	155972191X	57353049	Bus Fare to Kentucky: The Autobiography of Skeeter Davis	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The BEST autobiography by any Country Female Star!!	I have read them all (Loretta, Tammy, Dolly, Reba, Naomi Judd, Barbara Mandrell, even the rarer ones like Jan Howard and Jeannie C. Riley) and hands down Skeeter Davis' autobiography is the most moving and personal of the bunch of country music star autobiographies (I enjoyed most of the others too by the way).  It is truly rare for anyone who is writing an autobiography to be the intimate and personal, quite a few are of the self-infatuated &quot;and then I made this movie&quot; or &quot;my big #1 record at the time was&quot; level.  Skeeter's life is so much more than show business and it's wonderful to see a star with their feet both on the ground.<br />I was dumbstruck by that negative review posted, the only one I have ever read for this book anywhere. The usually jaded PEOPLE magazine as I recall referred to this book as &quot;moving&quot;. I don't know why this person was so defensive especially considering Skeeter's religion which is such a active and vital part of her life.  There are not many entertainers who when their mainstream careers are starting to crumble a bit who will spend most of their time on traveling the world spreading the good news of Jesus, most I suspect would have spent every waking hour trying to climb back to the top!!  If Skeeter's brand of religion is not yours, why complain about it especially since this is HER autobiography!!  Skeeter herself is a wonderfully open-minded person, writing with awe of the lovely Buddahist temples she had seen on her travels and pointing out it is not for her or anyone to judge anyone and their religious beliefs (or about anything), that alone is for God to do.<br />As far as her comments on ex-husband Ralph Emery, Emery himself first wrote negatively about Skeeter in his first (of several!) autobiographies, it certainly seems reasonable to expect Skeeter to air her side of the story.  She does indeed have some shocking information about him but to have deleted it from her life story would have given a false picture of what was going on in her life.<br />Skeeter Davis is truly a beloved person and proved to be an outstanding writer with this book.  Her followup book was a children's book THE CHRISTMAS NOTE that received rave comments from many acclaimed writers including Lee Smith, Rebecca Wells, and Terry Kay.  Skeeter is one of the most talented people Nashville has ever produced.a false picture of what was going on in her life. <br />Skeeter Davis is truly a beloved person and proved to be an outstanding writer with this book.  Her followup book was a children's book THE CHRISTMAS NOTE that received rave comments from many acclaimed writers including Lee Smith, Rebecca Wells, and Terry Kay.  Skeeter is one of the most talented people Nashville has ever produced.	2004-02-20
US	39702568	R394T6C1I1J5U1	0898201241	144493731	Top Country Albums 1964-1997	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Invaluable For Any Country Music Buff	This is, with the Billboard singles reference book, THE book for any country music buff to own. It lists every album that charted on Billboard's country charts between 1964 (the first year of the chart) to 1996. Although the book needs to be updated for the last five years, the information is invaluable here listing by artist every charted album, week of debut, highest position peaked,and weeks on the chart.  Albums that went top ten also have a complete list of song tracks. There is also great lists at the back of the top 25 artists by decade, the top 50 albums by decade, and the 100 top albums and 200 top artists of alltime.  These charts, unlike the singles, are wholly based on sales so it could be said this is a better barometer of just how popular many country artists are.  You will be shocked how many country superstars never had a number one album!!  You will also be stunned how many big stars had only a handful of number one albums while being surprised how well other stars did on the charts.  Country legend Tammy Wynette for example, has only had three number one albums - the same number as Connie Smith who is generally not quite ranked on her level of stardom despite her outstanding talent.  That puts Tammy though three on Barbara Mandrell and Anne Murray, neither of whom hit #1 on Billboard's country album charts.  But Sammi Smith, Jeanne Pruett, and Jeannie C.Riley did!! And Susan Raye, generally thought of as a second-level country star, had more top ten albums (five) than such later CMA female vocalists of the year, Janie Fricke, Pam Tillis, and Kathy Mattea!!  The male stars stats are equally shocking. Faron Young, Webb Pierce, and Mel Tillis had remarkably few top ten albums (less than Susan!) while George Jones hit number one just three times in his amazing career.<br />A bona fide country music trivia buff  I turn to this book almost weekly.  It is worth every penny.	2003-11-13
US	39702568	R3HGKUNJ2QP9QP	0815412428	268681928	Dolly: The Biography	Books	1	25	28	N	N	25 Year Old Book Barely Updated!!	I can't believe this 1978 book has been reprinted exactly as it was 25 years ago with only a tacked on chapter for the last 25 years!!! Not one word from the original book appears to have been changed, thus you get long dead people like Marty Robbins being quoted as if they were still around, even the forward is the same as it was in 1978 comparing Dolly to Farrah Fawcett and Cheryl Tiegs!!! First time readers might think they have fallen into a time warp as the book is written in the present tense much like a magazine article (which made the book dated VERY early on like say 1980). It's pretty shocking to read chapter and chapter on 1977 and 1978 and then bam - one chapter for 1979-2003!!<br />The book itself wasn't so great even in 1978 - Ms. Nash has a very bad habit of quoting \\"anonymous insiders\\" thoroughout the book many of whom make comments that Dolly is making bad career decisions and suggest she is about to mess up her career big time! Even these ridiculous comments were not deleted from this new (sic) edition!! Ms. Nash can be downright catty herself at times, especially to Parton's first biographer who put out a paperback the year before and whom Nash ludricously blames for a lack of participation by the Parton family with her book. (Nash wrote a rather nasty article for WRITER'S DIGEST after her book came out that claimed in essence Dolly tried to sabatoge her book, Ms. Nash fails to make any comments of the kind here in her \\"update\\" chapter.)<br />The repackaging of this old book with a recent cover photo of Dolly must be considered the literary equivalent of all those endless low-budget CD reissues of those very early teenaged tracks of hers like \\"Letter to Heaven\\" and \\"Making Believe\\" (cheapie productions that don't even sound like her) that are found in dollar stores. Alas, this publisher expects the consumer to cough up quite a pretty penny more than those budget CD companies.<br />If Alanna Nash wanted to bring this book back into print she should have rewritten it so it would make sense to a 2003 reader, instead it's just an tacky and lazy attempt to make a few extra bucks from the never ending public fascination with the great Dolly Parton!!uld have rewritten it so it would make sense to a 2003 reader, instead it's just an tacky and lazy attempt to make a few extra bucks from the never ending public fascination with the great Dolly Parton!!	2003-08-03
US	39702568	R3AMWSAIXWBJN0	0826514243	918819127	Heartaches by the Number: Country Music's 500 Greatest Singles	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Help Me Make it Through The Book	I found this a really poorly done vanity project of the authors.  They frankly write like a individual fan would, not like historians.  I mean really THREE Sammi Smith records in the top 500??  That very talented lady only had THREE top ten hits period!!  Some of the selections (MANY of the selections) seem deliberately chosen to provoke rather than being there for being truly outstanding recordings.<br />The fact that this listing is not a serious attempt to acknowledge  ground-breaking or important recordings can be judged by the fact that so many recordings are grouped together in entries with their neighboring song on the list (ie: two Merle Haggard songs ranked side by side or Dolly Parton &amp; Norma Jean's &quot;working girl&quot; songs ranked consecutively).  This even goes on into the &quot;alternate 100&quot; list with three completely forgettable different songs called &quot;The Other Woman&quot; ranked side by side.  The research here isn't very good either, most country music buffs won't learn a thing here.  Sometimes it doesn't even appear the authors even really LISTENED to the record!  For example discussing Norma Jean's record HEAVEN HELP THE WORKING GIRL they quote the line &quot;we'd both be sorry if I did go home to your wife and your kids&quot; as if some guy trying to pick Norma Jean up was inviting her home for supper!!  Norma Jean actually sings &quot;We'd both be sorry if I did, (pleading) GO home to your wife and your kids&quot;  ie: a man has propositioned her and she is pointedly reminding him of his family at home.  How could they not understand that?? Similarly, they ludriciously compare Dottie West's A LESSON IN LEAVIN' to Aretha Franklin records, it has about as much in common with a Franklin disc as it does with A Beverly Sills' one.<br />And the authors make one of the most offensive (if unintentional) slams I've ever read on a country songwriter in their comments on Merle Haggard's recording &quot;I'm A Lonesome Fugitive&quot; (written by Liz Anderson with some assistance from her husband Casey) stating  it was a song Haggard himself could have wrote.  Well, dear authors, Mr. Haggard DID NOT write it, he had written almost nothing at this early point in his career and in fact his later songwriting was clearly inspired by the bitter and lonesome themes in the Liz Anderson songs he rode to fame with such as &quot;Fugitive&quot; and &quot;Strangers&quot;.  THAT would have been a more appropiate comment.  Country songwriters are usually highly praised within the industry so it's strange to read comments in a book belittling their actual contribution.<br />I suspect the authors knocked this book out in a couple weeks.  At least that's how it looks.itten by Liz Anderson with some assistance from her husband Casey) stating  it was a song Haggard himself could have wrote.  Well, dear authors, Mr. Haggard DID NOT write it, he had written almost nothing at this early point in his career and in fact his later songwriting was clearly inspired by the bitter and lonesome themes in the Liz Anderson songs he rode to fame with such as &quot;Fugitive&quot; and &quot;Strangers&quot;.  THAT would have been a more appropiate comment.  Country songwriters are usually highly praised within the industry so it's strange to read comments in a book belittling their actual contribution.  <br />I suspect the authors knocked this book out in a couple weeks.  At least that's how it looks.	2003-08-03
US	39702568	R2QH2X941LPLAF	0684857634	742421958	Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone?: The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Very Good Though Some Reservations	The Carter Family were, with Jimmie Rodgers, the first stars of country music as well as the most important country musical group of alltime.  They deserve a great book and this one is very good but I do have problems with it.  First and foremost is the fact that the author is clearly not particularly a fan of country music, seeing them more of a folk act.  At one point he even denies their music is hillbilly!!! The Carter Family INVENTED hillbilly music!!! Theirs was hillbilly music at it's purest, honest, simple, raw, and without pretentions.  It spoke directly to the country people thoroughout the south, all of whom rightly identified it as \\"hillbilly\\" at the time.  Zwonitzer is clearly a snob; some of his most brutal assessments are directed at the country comics, ludricously claiming at one point nobody enjoyed them and that fans went out en masse for smokes whenever someone like Grandpa Jones (not just a comic Mr. Zwonitzer but a fine bluegrass singer and musician) came on the stage in package shows. Worse is his downright sexist comment about Minnie Pearl, while noting at one point June had created a comic stage character Aunt Polly similiar to Minnie but that June was \\"a hell of a lot better looking\\" than Ms. Pearl.  Earth to Mr. Zwonitzer, Minnie Pearl was a deliberate spinsterish stage character, the lady was not trying to be Rita Hayworth!<br />The book should have been great because he had two particularly fascinating characters in A. P. and Sara Carter.  A. P. was an uneducated man with a dream who thoroughly understood the country people.  The author writes of his getting them into the music industry as something of a fluke but A.P. clearly was a genius spotting talent not only in his wife but his sister-in-law Maybelle who unquestionably would have never have had a professional career with him.  His \\"song scouting\\", finding old songs among the rural people makes him one of the foremost musicologists of the 20th century although Mr. Zwonitzer presents it somewhat as Carter being too lazy to write songs himself!<br />The thing I really like about this book is its rightly stating the importance of Sara Carter to the success of the Carter Family.  Sara appears to be the least show business-struck entertainer ever, completely disinterested in it other than as a paycheck.  Her haunting lead vocals on the overwhelming bulk of the Carter Family output give no hint of her lack of interest.  Many people think Maybelle was the lead singer no doubt due in part to her long career with a second generation of \\"The Carter Family\\" with her daughters and as part of the Johnny Cash show (CMTV recently ranked Maybelle in the top ten among the most important women in country music history while astonishingly Sara did not place in the top 40!!)  Maybelle was an brillant musician though, possibly the most influential female musican in American music.<br />A.P. and Sara's marriage and breakup is fascinating to read about and Sara's affair that led to a new husband for her is practically right out of an Erskine Caldwell novel.  The one person who is something of a villain here is Maybelle's husband although it's presented in gentle terms here perhaps not to offend Johnny Cash and June Carter.  Maybelle's husband belittled  the group's initial outings as professional musicians but once the money came in he ran through it like water and after Sara walked away from the act he basically stole the Carter Family franchise right from under A.P.'s feet, packaging Maybelle with their daughters as \\"The Carter Sisters\\" and not long after, The Carter Family.  The author admits some considered him \\"mean-spirited\\" but does not really elaborate although the evidence seems strong.<br />After spending a fair amount of space on the second generation of the Carter Family and their career in the 1950's through the 1970's, the book abruptly ends with the deaths of Maybelle and Sara at the end of the decade.  Again, the author's unfamiliarity with country music raises it's head concerning the second Carter Family; he writes of their stage success as some sort of phenomeon not supported by hit records yet there were many big name country stars in the 1940's and 1950's who were known for their stage performances and not their limited record success.  The Carter Sisters were genuinely popular (Anita Carter has long been widely regarded as one of the greatest country female singers despite never having real chart success on her own) and their singing was absolutely wonderful.  They deserve a boxed CD set of their own.<br />Despite some of my comments, I did enjoy this book.  I just wish the author enjoyed country music a little more!try music raises it's head concerning the second Carter Family; he writes of their stage success as some sort of phenomeon not supported by hit records yet there were many big name country stars in the 1940's and 1950's who were known for their stage performances and not their limited record success.  The Carter Sisters were genuinely popular (Anita Carter has long been widely regarded as one of the greatest country female singers despite never having real chart success on her own) and their singing was absolutely wonderful.   They deserve a boxed CD set of their own.  <br />Despite some of my comments, I did enjoy this book.  I just wish the author enjoyed country music a little more!	2003-07-04
US	39702568	R2SSAHK4SDTYWS	1879511428	875145604	At the Center of the Frame: Leading Ladies of the Twenties and Thirties	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Rediscovering Anita Page, Fay Wray, Billie Dove &amp; More	I was surprised that I didn't really enjoy this book especially since I love the era and am a big fan of at least three of these ladies (Billie Dove, Anita Page, Claire Trevor).  The big problem for me is that the &quot;interview&quot; chapters are all written in  &quot;as told to&quot; format and makes the ladies all sound like one voice.  Even so, it's easy to tell which stars Drew was partial to and which he didn't particularly like.  The photographs are great but so many are reproduced tiny, about 2x2.  The book is printed on beautiful paper stock though and we get so few books these days on classic Hollywood (especially concerning the lesser lights) you might still want to check this one out.	2003-06-08
US	39702568	R1A6KEZTTTWDBQ	081312249X	798134241	Silent Players: A Biographical and Autobiographical Study of 100 Silent Film Actors and Actresses	Books	1	56	59	N	N	Obnoxious Book by an Obnoxious Writer	Anthony Slide is somewhat infamous among movie buffs for his truly unctuous writing style, arrogantly putting forth his own opinions as fact and lambasting any opinions to the contrary. Movie fans have to put up with his nonsense for years in the vintage films publication CLASSIC IMAGES with his malicious reviews of other author's works, often completely trashing excellent books because of a single trivia error he found (and no, I am not a book author trashed by him in case you are wondering). The insufferable Slide always gave the impression he was slumming in that good-natured fan publication, fortunately a few years ago he finally decided he had lived in the trailer park too long and haughtily left the magazine much to the delight of most of the readership.<br />Slide has written numerous books on silent movies, none of them particularly good except for the D.W. Griffith filmography which I suspect was due mainly to his co-writer, Edward Wagenknecht, a beloved silent film historian. Indeed, despite his many years writing (Slide must be sixtyish now), I certainly would not rank him on the level of Wagenknecht, Kevin Brownlow, James Card, and William Everson as an important, influential silent film scholar-historian despite the compliment by the always kind Lillian Gish that adorns the dust jackets of many Slide books. Slide is more of a critic than a historian or scholar and unfortunately he tends to be the Rex Reed of silent movie writers. Typical Slide views are his dissmissal of Greta Garbo's films while spending one of the largest chapters praising his personal friend starlet Mary Brian to the heavens. Miss Brian was quite a beauty and well-loved in the industry but she was in no way a great star and was not at all a good actress. Considering Lillian Gish's kindness toward him, I was surprised by the rather indifferent profile she merits in this book including digging up a few negative reviews (which could be found on of course any Hollywood star). There is something of the suggestion Slide was miffed that Ms. Gish was equally generous and warm to her fans as well as to snooty film writers.<br />Slide's essays here are often scarcely more credible than the books of Boze Harleigh, whose shoes Slide seems to want to fill as for \\"outing\\" and conjecture about possible gay silent stars. He speculates Wallace Reid and George O'Brien might have been gay or bisexual with the weakest of evidence (one actress who was not known to be close to Reid told Slide he \\"should never have married\\") while the elderly character actress Kate Bruce is ludricously presumed by Slide to have been a lesbian due to her never having married, complete with a suggestion the old grandma actress was bedding down some very young Griffith actresses!! Slide's \\"source\\" for this is his intrepetation of a quote from a 1920's vindictive book by D.W. Griffith's widely disliked ex-wife but the quote he gives from the book as \\"evidence\\" (that various young actresses would cling to Bruce and rest their heads on her lap) could be intrepeted as such only by the dirtiest of minds, a more level-headed person would realize Mrs. Griffith was being excessively sarcastic about a bunch the women all playing the cornball mother/daughter sentiment bit from Griffith's melodramas off screen as well as on. Would that Slide have actually listened to his friend Mary Brian whom he quotes as dismissing all the lurid latterday gossip about the golden era, that it was literally another era and people just were not as sexually adventurous back then!! (I did find it rather ironic that Slide repeatedly refers to his housemate film archivist Robert Gitt but never actually identifies their relationship!!)<br />Like Miss Brian, Slide goes into detail about some of the other elderly actresses who befriended him like Ruth Clifford and Priscilla Bonner, women whose careers arguably don't merit this much space. His chapter on Laura La Plante is not bad but his Corinne Griffith essay is quite weak (by the way, Mr. Slide, the Redskins, owned by one of Corinne's husbands, are a football team not a baseball team). The Blanche Sweet chapter allows him to both brag on his friendship with the elderly star and expose her hot temper while he joins the long line of Mae Murray bashers (so many cruel-natured writers just love to kick this tragic, ill-fated star since she fell perhaps the hardest of any big name) in an extremely short essay and when Slide ridicules the home and clothes of the elderly, impoverished Madge Bellamy one wonders if the man has any humanity in him at all. The book in fact seems overloaded with mean-spirited comments (is it possible for him to be any other way with individuals he does not admire?) directed at certain performers some of whom were kind enough to give him a few minutes of their time. Some were smarter and apparently snubbed him. Be smart yourself and follow their lead. And go read a book by Kevin Brownlow!!weak (by the way, Mr. Slide, the Redskins, owned by one of Corinne's husbands, are a football team not a baseball team). The Blanche Sweet chapter allows him to both brag on his friendship with the elderly star and expose her hot temper while he joins the long line of Mae Murray bashers (so many cruel-natured writers just love to kick this tragic, ill-fated star since she fell perhaps the hardest of any big name) in an extremely short essay and when Slide ridicules the home and clothes of the elderly, impoverished Madge Bellamy one wonders if the man has any humanity in him at all. The book in fact seems overloaded with mean-spirited comments (is it possible for him to be any other way with individuals he does not admire?) directed at certain performers some of whom were kind enough to give him a few minutes of their time. Some were smarter and apparently snubbed him. Be smart yourself and follow their lead. And go read a book by Kevin Brownlow!!	2003-01-19
US	39702568	R11T9QTDSJM7GT	1578063779	104156854	Van Johnson: MGM's Golden Boy (Hollywood Legends Series)	Books	1	87	108	N	N	Astonishingly Homophobic and Boorish Book for 2002	First let me say I am in no way a fan of Van Johnson. At best, he was only a slightly talented actor, he was mainly as the author notes a bobby-soxer teen idol who girls of the 1940's briefly made one of the top three box-office draws in America.  Teen idols, then as now, are rarely on anybody's list of great actors or of particular interest to anyone outside of contemporary teenaged girls. I only picked up this book because I enjoy reading movie star biographies but I am sorry I wasted my time on this little effort, the very definition of a hatchet job.  The author reveals  - shock, shock - Van Johnson was a homosexual.  Actually, he only manages to be the author of the first biography on Johnson and states this, previous books (including one written by Johnson's stepson) have proclaimed this tidbit and in fact quoting those books is pretty much the limit of Mr. Davis' details on Johnson's homosexuality. Oh, that and a brief, unsourced report that Johnson once propositioned an man in a Texas store. Davis feigns journalistic impartiality but it seems clear his opinion of Johnson as one might expect from a professor at Southern Methodist University or author of book on John Wayne. Practically from the first page it's obvious Davis wants to paint Johnson's as a pathetic, empty life (he certainly gives no evidence on why anyone would be interested in Johnson today, dimissing his talent repeatedly.)  Friends of Johnson seem to have been avoided to keep any good words about him out, other than Janet Leigh.  One of Davis's main sources is Johnson's ex-wife, from whom he had a very bitter divorce. Davis seems to take everything she has to say as the undiluted truth.  Davis keeps up his attack on Johnson right to the last page, proclaiming he is not a legendary figure like John Wayne or Marilyn Monroe (oh no! I thought Van Johnson was one of the five greatest stars ever!!) and as such presumably unworthy of future attention.  So what's the point of the book??  He even insults Johnson down to his very last sentence, basically dismissing him as a worthless fake.  I never dreamed I would ever have sympathy for a man who has cut off contact with his only child (one of the most unfortunate effects of the divorce) but Johnson's often incredibly sad and hollow life should move many people though clearly not Mr. Davis, who at no point seems to have compassion for Johnson and his life in the closet and the cost of it on him (though he does have sympathy for the other victims of Johnson's private life like his ex-wife and child.)  Saddest of all is Van Johnson is still living and around to read this malicious effort.  A final word:  this book's design and size are appropiately ugly  (it's scarcely bigger than a small softcover book, a strange size for a hardcover biography) for such a mean-spirited tome.  This is allegedly the first in a series of books on \\"Hollywood Legends\\" edited or written by Mr. Davis, one hopes this series ends very soon.ts Johnson down to his very last sentence, basically dismissing him as a worthless fake.  I never dreamed I would ever have sympathy for a man who has cut off contact with his only child (one of the most unfortunate effects of the divorce) but Johnson's often incredibly sad and hollow life should move many people though clearly not Mr. Davis, who at no point seems to have compassion for Johnson and his life in the closet and the cost of it on him (though he does have sympathy for the other victims of Johnson's private life like his ex-wife and child.)  Saddest of all is Van Johnson is still living and around to read this malicious effort.  A final word:  this book's design and size are appropiately ugly  (it's scarcely bigger than a small softcover book, a strange size for a hardcover biography) for such a mean-spirited tome.  This is allegedly the first in a series of books on \\"Hollywood Legends\\" edited or written by Mr. Davis, one hopes this series ends very soon.	2002-12-10
US	39702568	R1Q016ZVXDVH4M	0394585917	621502026	Movie Love in the Fifties	Books	1	10	30	N	N	Heavy-Handed, pretentious and just plain no fun	This is one of the worst film books that I have ever come across and certainly one of the most dishonest.  Starting with the title - twice!!! This book is not about \\"movie love\\" (the film's discussed are not necessarily romantic films but films from all genres, including films with no love theme at all) and the \\"fifties\\" according to Mr. Harvey is the \\"late forties into the sixties\\"!!! Huh???  Late 40's Hollywood was outrageously different from the 1950's in terms of motion pictures and themes.  To throw them together is as lopsided as discussing silent films of the 1920's and the films of the late 30's as one era. (The back cover incidentally is a romantic pose of Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift in A PLACE IN THE SUN, a film that is mentioned only briefly in the book).  This book frankly reads like a bunch of essays the author wrote at various times on various stars or films of the late 40s and 1950's and then compiled into a very incongruous book (I also noticed in his essay on the film CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY he or his publisher neglects to mention the film is a 1944 release which pushes his definition of the \\"fifties\\" even further).  Mostly concerned with film noir movies, he pushes a ridiculous theory up front trying to tie  the film noir damsels of the late 40's into  the sugary girls next door stars of the 50's, which basically seems like a desperate attempt  to justify discussing such different films from different eras in one book.  But worse than all of this is his commentary, which is strictly his own and has not actual critical consensus, then or now.  In his eyes, Doris Day is \\"butch\\", Marilyn Monroe was \\"not aging very well\\" in her last years (mid 30's!!), etc. etc. He slams several popular and acclaimed films in passing and praises some flops, too.  Way too much time is spent on that overrated director Douglas Sirk  and his various films.  How disappointing publishers are knocking out  books like this where one individual essentially passes off their opinions as the gospel truth about films when there is a desperate need for more actual film HISTORIES giving us facts and real information while there are still a few people around who worked in that period of Hollywood history who can provide it.  Harvey's writing style is stiff and psuedo-academic and sure to make you wonder why anyone would even bother watching old movies if they were as joyless as this.  This is most definately not a book for people who love movies.opinions as the gospel truth about films when there is a desperate need for more actual film HISTORIES giving us facts and real information while there are still a few people around who worked in that period of Hollywood history who can provide it.  Harvey's writing style is stiff and psuedo-academic and sure to make you wonder why anyone would even bother watching old movies if they were as joyless as this.  This is most definately not a book for people who love movies.	2002-09-03
US	39702568	R11F9FL8EEYCD0	1569800669	455782146	Bette Davis Speaks	Books	1	18	19	N	N	Highly Questionable &quot;Interviews&quot;	These &quot;interviews&quot; sound nothing like Bette Davis as anyone who ever read the scores of bona fide interviews she gave over the years.  Miss Davis was hot-tempered and sharp-tongued at times but her fans know she was really something of a prude so it seems highly questionable she would dish dirt like this. (Remember she had a feud with her last film director because the film included a dark comic joke concerning Joan Crawford which Miss Davis thought was in terrible taste.  And Joan was of course no friend of Bette's!!) This frankly reads more like a drag queen's nightclub act not an interview with a star.  I don't know a single movie buff who believes Mr. Hadleigh's books.	2002-07-11
US	39702568	R3MFQ2OFJLBCZI	0312287534	757400072	I Loved Lucy: My Friendship with Lucille Ball	Books	1	11	17	N	N	Loved Lucy, Loathed Lee	I was really looking forward to this book, having enjoyed James Brochu's memoir (he was another of Lucy's backgammon pals) instead I was shocked to find this an obnoxious, self-serving tale of a fan who sees himself as a \\"relative\\" (\\"Gary Morton's sister Helen's husband, Bob, was my father's first cousin\\" he writes) and a \\"friend\\". Actually he seems closer to a hanger-on (there is a less gentle term for that these days), albeit he and his boyfriend have well-paying jobs unlike a lot of gay boys who latch on to elderly actresses. We certainly don't learn much about Lucy here, and apparently neither did Mr. Tannen. Unlike Brochu's book, quoting Lucy in detail about her career and associates, Tannen does not appear very interested or even knowledgable about her contemporaries or even Lucy's pre-I LOVE LUCY career. All that time together appears to be spent doing little more than playing backgammon. Several times he tastelessly comments about personal incidents reminding him of MOMMIE DEAREST and SUNSET BLVD. Frankly, I was reminded of ALL ABOUT EVE ie: a little schemer pushing their way into the life of a great star. There certainly is a bit of latent hostility under his fawning. He doesn't fail to get us the full details about times when Lucy behaved badly toward him (ie: telling him the correct way to toast an English muffin) but seems rather vague about a fit he threw in a car that resulted in Lucy breaking ties for two years. He seems jealous of anyone else in Lucy's life including her husband. His nasty remarks at Gary's expense seem quite ungrateful considering Gary was his source for entering into Lucy's life. He doesn't attack Lucy's children, of course (he barely mentions either of them though at one point dares to suggest he himself was something of a son to Lucy). He is complimentary to Lucie in the few brief comments directed at her, apparently to keep in her good graces and in touch. Lucie praises his book lavishly on the dust jacket, probably because he states Desi Arnaz was the love of Lucy's life and never got over him. This, of course, is what Little Lucie, always closer to her father, wants to hear. The cover pose with Lucy, in which Tannen has arm over her shoulder and the other hand by her neck (there's even another photo inside with a similiar pose as well as this shot reproduced inside) certainly suggests he was possessive. He was not in show business (unless you call making commercials show business) but does not hesitate to attack every major career Lucy made during the 1980's as a mistake, apparently because she dared to without getting his advice. Some of the ideas he puts forth are truly terrible (ie: Lucy starring past age 70 on Broadway for the first time in over 20 years which might have been a real disaster and not just from the critic reception.  Lucy's health was not good her last decade, is he really so insensitive not to realize what working eight shows a week at that point could have done to her?). He certainly seems not to have considered the fact that Lucy was only seeking a little companionship from him as a backgammon partner and was not interested in either getting professional advice from him or being his mentor for a major show business career. He does seem to have genuine affection for Lucy (although she certainly is not the only star he might have been so \\"close\\" to given to chance as fawns over Don Johnson, Tommy Tune, or Patricia Neal when he meets them via Lucy; the Tune interaction is particularly interesting because Lucy's comments to him suggest she thought he might take his star watching to another level). Had he been nicer to Gary (whom Lucy was clearly devoted to all accounts) or more of a real friend (ie: helping her interact with her children more) I would have like Tannen and his book a lot more. He does love Lucy, but as a person or a star? That answer seems unclear.tates Desi Arnaz was the love of Lucy's life and never got over him. This, of course, is what Little Lucie, always closer to her father, wants to hear. The cover pose with Lucy, in which Tannen has arm over her shoulder and the other hand by her neck (there's even another photo inside with a similiar pose as well as this shot reproduced inside) certainly suggests he was possessive. He was not in show business (unless you call making commercials show business) but does not hesitate to attack every major career Lucy made during the 1980's as a mistake, apparently because she dared to without getting his advice. Some of the ideas he puts forth are truly terrible (ie: Lucy starring past age 70 on Broadway for the first time in over 20 years which might have been a real disaster and not just from the critic reception.  Lucy's health was not good her last decade, is he really so insensitive not to realize what working eight shows a week at that point could have done to her?). He certainly seems not to have considered the fact that Lucy was only seeking a little companionship from him as a backgammon partner and was not interested in either getting professional advice from him or being his mentor for a major show business career. He does seem to have genuine affection for Lucy (although she certainly is not the only star he might have been so \\"close\\" to given to chance as fawns over Don Johnson, Tommy Tune, or Patricia Neal when he meets them via Lucy; the Tune interaction is particularly interesting because Lucy's comments to him suggest she thought he might take his star watching to another level). Had he been nicer to Gary (whom Lucy was clearly devoted to all accounts) or more of a real friend (ie: helping her interact with her children more) I would have like Tannen and his book a lot more. He does love Lucy, but as a person or a star? That answer seems unclear.	2002-06-10
