US	39749854	R2EWLCBU93EEM5	0762723289	385432712	100 Best Ski Resorts of the World (100 Best Series)	Books	2	16	18	N	Y	It's just OK	Hey, this book is not bad.  You get a list of the 100 best ski resorts of the world...mmm...isn't that the title of the book?  Good title.  The information is very concise.  But something is wrong.  Something is terribly wrong with a book like this.  Ah, yes...the information is easily outdated...nothing you can't get from a web site which has more updated information.  I can't think of a good reason to buy this book because it is in black and white so you can't exactly enjoy the photography which there is a terribly \\"lack of\\" in the book.  You might want to save your money on this one.  I did buy it, for your information, but I bought it used for pennies...and I still feel ripped off.  Arrgg...	2005-10-12
US	39749854	R7Z2AV9IB4B0V	0974625418	702550596	The Essential Guide to Skiing: 201 Things Every Skier Must Know	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Hey, this is a really cool book	I must say this is a really cool book.  I mean, first of all, the title is exactly what this book is about \\"Things Every Skier Must Know\\".  Finally, a book that lives up to its title!  Daaamn!  This book is quite unique in that it does not teach you ski technique or ski mechanics or ski maintenance...just way, way too many of these books.  Instead, this book teaches you stuff...really useful, practical stuff like how to hook up your skis on your car rack...the right way!  Or how to look for a well-qualified ski instructor - believe me, this is not an easy task to do!  I've taken so many ski lessons and ended up with so many bad ski instructors, it's not even funny and I pretty much had to learn skiing on my own.  There is also great advice on how to prepare for a ski vacation and some brief notes on skiing on various terrains and even a chapter on ski racing!  This book ponders on almost every aspect of skiing but the kitchen sink (What does that have to do with skiing, you wonder...absolutely nothing).  I highly recommend this book.  It is a great read on the plane or long trips to the ski resort.  I mean it is quite lengthy for a ski book, but then I can't recall a ski book that is about everything there is to know about skiing?	2005-10-12
US	39749854	RBI6TQXWILRAL	0764155458	527168185	Top Ski Resorts of the World	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Not the most comprehensive book	So this is not the most comprehesive book out there...not sure if one exists that can be comparable to some ski web sites out there.  I can't believe there is no ski map to associate with each location.  I mean, we are talking about the \\"Top Ski Resorts of the World!\\"  This is not your run-of-the-mill, three-hour drive local ski resort unless you happen to live next to Whistler Mountain (Damnn you).  The least they could do is provide a small ski map of the world-renown resort.  And there is just not enough information or stats for each mountain.  Despite the information shortcoming, I still give it three stars for the beautiful photography - the only reason I bought the book in the first place - I'm no fool.	2005-10-12
US	39749854	R33OP5T9Q8AW9D	0743254333	179672459	Presidential Leadership: Rating the Best and the Worst in the White House (Wall Street Journal Book)	Books	3	5	11	N	N	OK, but somewhat boring	I just finished this book and it was just marginally ok. I mean from the title \\"Presidential Leadership\\" I would think they would discuss the qualities that make a great leader while using the presidents as real examples. So what makes Washington ranked so high? I don't know, the book didn't say. The analysis portion if you even call it that, is very small. Most of the profiles is just history which you can get from any good textbook. There are some great topics toward the end of the book such as \\"Presidential Leadership during Wartime\\" or \\"...and Economy\\". But I'm afraid people won't even make it to that part of the book because the profiles are boring and uninsightful.	2005-09-28
US	39749854	R2POJ0QKQ88O9	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	2	16	27	N	N	The Power of Being a Good Christian	That should be the title of the book.  Positive thinking?  Um, very minimal.  Oh yeh, did I mention you need to think postively?  This book refers alot to the Bible.  I don't have any problems with that, but I thought the title is pretty misleading.  If you don't convert to Christianity after reading this book, I don't know what will.  This book leans more to God for help than positive thinking.  OK, maybe postive thinking is thinking about God, but how about people not religious?  Again, not the best title.  I got fooled by the title, decided to read it anyway, and was very disappointed.	2005-01-14
US	39749854	R1PB2ERSO07QMM	1578261538	550285693	Anyone Can Be an Expert Skier 1: The New Way to Ski, Revised Edition	Books	1	5	12	N	N	Not a good book to learn how to ski	I am such a die-hard ski fan.  Usually I eat up anything about skiing.  Books?  Forget about it.  I shred them up in minutes.  But this one?  Wow, it was hard to digest.  The writing is so bad and it was just so boring.  Most of it is so repetitious.  Way, way, way too long.  Did I mention is was too long?  One of those useless frame-by-frame books.  How many pages do you need to say this: if you lift up one leg, the other leg will start to lilt towards that leg and *voila* edging.  Duh.  Other key points: Stance foot quiet, free foot steer.  Keep stance narrow.  Focus on your feet.  This book is bad.  See my other reviews for better ski books.	2004-11-25
US	39749854	R2YZMUWDQAA7GE	0679778314	756357871	The Inner Game of Tennis: The Classic Guide to the Mental Side of Peak Performance	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I can't believe I'm the first person to review this book	This is one of the pioneering books that brought about the field known as sports psychology.<br />A great self-help book, in my opinion, because it has an action plan you can follow.  Basically, it will help you achieve total self-confidence if you don't already have it.  The author talks about each person having a self1 and a self2.  The former is your conscious ego and the latter is your potential.  Self-confidence comes when we suppress self1 and allow the excellence in self2 to come out.  We should trust ourselves to do what we want to do because everything we need is in self2.  It is when we allow self1 to judge, we doubt ourselves.  An important concept in getting rid of self1 is the art of being able to focus.  If we focus on the here and now, this place and time, self2 will have a better chance to perform.  How many times have we start to wonder about our cat or our past mistakes or day-dream how nice it is for something to happen when what we should be doing is to focus on the task at hand.  In a way, self1 and self2 are similar to the conscious and subconscious mind.  Whichever way you choose to believe is not what's important.  What is important is that by conceptualizing this way, the complexity is reduced, and results can be produced quickly.  How else can humans conceptualize confidence?  Confidence without doubt, is nothing.  Just like you cannot have hot without cold or fast without slow.<br />Lastly, we should cherish competition and our opponents.  Our opponents are not our enemies but can be viewed as obstacles that allow us to grow and become better at what we do.  Humans love to accomplish great things because they like to test their limits.  Although this is fine, those who set out to overcome an obstacle should find out if the result they get is what they really want before they go about trying to overcome the obstacle.	2004-02-18
US	39749854	R1FYDVAPPJQMW5	0971774838	867000018	Ski the Whole Mountain: How to Ski Any Condition at Any Time	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Experts only	This book has a very, very brief chapter on the basics of edging and then it jumps directly to skiing powder, crud, steeps, trees, moguls, and air!  Um, needless to say, not a book for your average beginner.<br />I've previously gave this book a low rating, but have now changed it because I realize this is a really good book for expert skiers.  I have not tried the powder techniques because there is no powder where I am, but the crud techniques are very useful.  There is no doubt the authors spend a lot of time on steeps because this is the biggest and most comprehensive section of the book.  The worst section is the one on moguls because it is very short and does not provide sufficient information to rip them like a pro.  Another book, \\"The All-Mountain Skier\\", provides the best mogul section I've seen so far.  The air techniques are great and provide good fundamentals for anyone going to the terrain park.  There is even a section on cross-country skiing for anyone interested in starting.  The photos in this book will probably be the best you will ever see and they are full-color.  The skiers photographed in this book are emulatable (unlike the skiers photographed in \\"The All-Mountain Skier\\").  Check out \\"The Skier's Edge\\" for b/w photos of pro-skiers.  It's ashame there is no one book with all the necessary information to improve your skiing.  But getting all three books will come close to such an imaginary book.	2004-01-29
US	39749854	R22JEVDSV6PMIU	0880119829	626416091	The Skier's Edge	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Possibly the best ski book ever written	This is an amazing amazing book.  Unlike other ski books, this book not only tells you &quot;how&quot;, but &quot;why&quot;.  All those times when your ski instructor told you to keep your shins on the tongues of your boots or edge the skis during turns; well, this book will explain what all that madness is about.  Of course, the reasoning can be all explained by physics, but the author is very talented in providing just the right amount of science with the sport and as a result produces a book that is comprehensible not only to Einstein.<br />This is a book that can be of value to anyone that is serious about skiing.  I believe the beginner can benefit from this book because it offers him a solid foundation to build on.  The expert will find many ways to fine tune his skiing through this book.  For people who only go skiing once a year or go just to hang out with friends or to look cool, this book will put them to sleep, guaranteed.<br />Although this book is quite technical, it is not comprehensive in the &quot;how to&quot; area.  For a more definitive guide in this area, I recommend &quot;The All-Mountain Skier&quot; to supplement this book.  Together, you will have possibly everything you need to know about skiing like a pro minus how to install bindings on skis (Can't have everything).  &quot;The All-Mountain Skier&quot; will also have a comprehensive guide on equipment and maintenance of it.<br />I can't possibly imagine a ski book getting more technical and specific as this one.  Plus, this book have pictures of only pro skiers so you can emulate with security.  Lastly, this book is very, very well written which is important since you have to read it!	2004-01-29
US	39749854	R1OURYDIKQNGLQ	007140841X	592311189	All-Mountain Skier : The Way to Expert Skiing	Books	5	32	33	N	N	The definitive ski instruction book	This book is amazingly comprehensive for its size.  It is roughly two-hundred pages, yet it breaks down the essentials of making good turns, contains an in-depth look at each ski equipment and how to maintain it, and breaks down special techniques for various snow conditions (powder, moguls, etc).  If this isn't enough, there is a more technical section at the end for serious ski freaks.  This is nuts.  I also have the book, &quot;Ski the Whole Mountain&quot;, and it probably has only half the information this book has.<br />At first glance, you may not like this book because it is black and white and not as flashy as &quot;Ski the Whole Mountain&quot;.  Also, most of the pictures are hand-drawn illustrations.  However, upon reading it, you will be hypnotized and the black and white illustrations seem to almost come alive.  It is testimony to the fine writing by the author.<br />If you ever want to ski moguls, this is the book.  For years, I look at expert mogul skiers go down and I keep saying to myself that they must have some special paths they follow but I just don't know what.  Well, this book draws the path, the moguls, the works!<br />This is an amazing book and probably the only book you need to ski like a pro.  But I read &quot;The Skier's Edge&quot;, and that book actually contains even more technical information (if that's possible) so you may want to check that one as well.	2004-01-29
US	39749854	R1AY1RH6H70BL2	1557832773	642450200	Michael Caine - Acting in Film: An Actor's Take on Movie Making (The Applause Acting Series) Revised Expanded Edition	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Entertaining yet informative	I'm not really a fan of Caine, but something about the cover caught my attention.  After reading this book, I have a great deal of respect for Caine.  This is an actor who was from a poor background, but did not allow the situation to deter his love for acting and instead use it to empower himself and of course, alittle bit of luck now and then doesn't hurt.  Caine is really skillful at providing useful information in an entertaining way.  A educationally fun read for actors or just about anyone who has a love for film.	2003-11-19
US	39749854	RDWO73YS176SL	0743204727	514419544	How to Be Funny: The One and Only Practical Guide for Every Occasion, Situation, and Disaster (no kidding)	Books	4	3	8	N	N	Really good book on being funny	As a stand-up comedian, I thought this was a great book that dissects all the necessary ingredients on being funny.  It also categorizes the types of funny stuff.  But this book is way longer than it should be and the last couple of chapters excluding the advice from pros, are totally redundant.  Some people are borned funny that they don't really need to read this.  I believe I am one of these people, but it is interesting to see that I am using these techniques without myself even realizing it.	2003-11-19
US	39749854	R3IPJ2AX8B46Q8	055327757X	366990251	The Greatest Salesman in the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remember these rules	Repeat each one when you wake up, have lunch, and go to sleep for one month and then move on to the next one.<br />1. I will form good habits and become their slave.<br />2. I will greet this day with love in my heart.<br />3. I will persist until I succeed.<br />4. I am nature's greatest miracle.<br />5. I will live this day as if it is my last.<br />6. Today I will be master of my emtions.<br />7. I will laugh at the world.<br />8. Today I will multiply my value a hundredfold.<br />9. I will act now.<br />10. I will pray for guidance.	2003-08-21
US	39749854	R2IYHNDCALR87N	0394575970	932092708	Trump: Surviving at the Top	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good insight	Who knows more about Trump than Trump himself?  This is a good book if you want to know more about Trump.  At times he is sincere; like when he tells of the various disadvantaged people he has helped.  At times he sounds really fake; he mentions how he admires the courage of gamblers.  That is alot of boloney.  At times he is boastful; the Trump Princess is the best yacht ever built.  But hate him or love him, he says it like it is.  He seems very vindictive as evident with his numerous attacks on some very famous people throughout the book.  But for those who are his friends, he has nothing but praise for them.  He doesn't play politics, but what he does do is make deals and makes a whole bunch of them in this book.  One of the recurring themes of the book is to wait for the right price even if it means giving it up and not to let emotions dictate the price.  In many instances, the deal comes back to him and at an even better price than ever.	2003-08-16
US	39749854	R3610S34NACO7R	0394575970	932092708	Trump: Surviving at the Top	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good insight	Who knows more about Trump than Trump himself?  This is a good book if you want to know more about Trump.  At times he is sincere; like when he tells of the various disadvantaged people he has helped.  At times he sounds really fake; he mentions how he admires the courage of gamblers.  That is alot of boloney.  At times he is boastful; the Trump Princess is the best yacht ever built.  But hate him or love him, he says it like it is.  He seems very vindictive as evident with his numerous attacks on some very famous people throughout the book.  But for those who are his friends, he has nothing but praise for them.  He doesn't play politics, but what he does do is make deals and makes a whole bunch of them in this book.  One of the recurring themes of the book is to wait for the right price even if it means giving it up and not to let emotions dictate the price.  In many instances, the deal comes back to him and at an even better price than ever.	2003-08-16
US	39749854	R2TV59LP09YXG8	0743226747	227844340	The Power of Full Engagement: Managing Energy, Not Time, Is the Key to High Performance and Personal Renewal	Books	1	144	178	N	N	Nothing new	This is one of those books that are way longer than they should be.  Even worst, it doesn't provide anything new if you are a regular reader of self-help books.<br />According to the book, you should manage energy, not time.  Rather vague suggestion.  Do you even know what it is talking about?  Let me explain.  There are four types of energy: 1) physical 2) emotional 3) mental 4) spiritual.  Physical energy refers to action.  Emotional energy refers to positive thinking.  Mental energy refers to focus.  Spiritual energy refers to a buring desire.  Ah.  For those who are Napoleon Hill fans, you would know what I'm talking about.  Action, positive attitude, focus, and a buring desire are ingredients for success according to Hill's famous book, \\"Think and Grow Rich\\".  This book is \\"Think and Grow Rich\\" in sheep's clothing.<br />Since Loehr is into fitness, he believes our brain needs exercise just like our biceps.  This exercise would be stress.  Stress would be good for our brains just like weight training is good for our muscles.  And like our muscles, the brain needs periods of rest to re-energize.  I have just summarize the first 100 pages.  The next 100 pages, part II, describes a three-step approach for change: 1) Purpose - what do you want to do 2) Truth - what are you doing wrong 3) Action - change it.  Following these steps will develop a ritual - something you don't have to waste energy thinking about doing since it's automatic.  Essentially, he is teaching us to make a habit of doing things.  I think I just summarize the whole book in one sentence.<br />You should be warned that there are some data mining in this book.  I was only able to catch it because I'm an avid tennis fan.  Loehr explains the importance of being positive and uses Jimmy Conners as an example.  For exuding positive energy on the tennis court, Conners was able to play his best tennis even at a later age as opposed to John McEnroe who is always negative on the court. Loehr then uses Conners' run to the semis at the US Open as an example, but fails to mention that the next year, McEnroe was just as impressive by reaching the semis at Wimbledon!  I don't think his use of Conners as an example is convincing at all.  What this really shows is that just as there is no substitute for hard work and a good positive attitude, there is also no substitute for raw talent.  McEnroe has much more talent than Conners and because of that, was able to be so good at the game DESPITE his negative energy on the court.s' run to the semis at the US Open as an example, but fails to mention that the next year, McEnroe was just as impressive by reaching the semis at Wimbledon!  I don't think his use of Conners as an example is convincing at all.  What this really shows is that just as there is no substitute for hard work and a good positive attitude, there is also no substitute for raw talent.  McEnroe has much more talent than Conners and because of that, was able to be so good at the game DESPITE his negative energy on the court.	2003-07-28
US	39749854	R30ZOLB7UVG1LX	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wow!	Wow, I can't say enough about this book. This is definitely one of the best books I have ever read. I would say it is just as good as \\"The Power of Your Subconscious Mind\\", but the anecdotes are not as interesting in this book. Still, you probably can not find better writing or more focused writing from any other non-fiction book than from this one.<br />Each chapter talks about an important rule. And the rule is boxed-in at the end of each chapter. These chapters/rules are then further categorized according to their uses. The first 3 rules are fundamental ones for getting along with people. The next 6 rules are for making people like you. The next 12 pertain to how you can make other people do stuff for you. And the last 9 are for effective leadership skills.<br />I just know that everything in this book is true because while reading each chapter, I can recall a time or times in my life that actually followed the rule. The thing is, back then I had no idea what was happening. After reading this book, I can actually learn from my past! Talk about effectiveness!<br />There is a preface or introduction in the book that tells you how to use this book. This may probably be the most important chapter in the whole book. But in case you forget to read it, it basically tells you to re-read this book and highlight important points so you can go back to it on a regular basis. I think most of us probably won't read this book more than once. I know I won't; so I copy down just the rules on a separate piece of paper so I can go over them each month. Maybe you would want to do this at the very LEAST! The truth is, I think they are that important to warrant for such memorization. You don't believe me? I work in sales and for over half a year I couldn't sell this guy my product and after reading this book and using the rules, I finally sold it to him!<br />If you are reading this review and have gone this far, make sure you force yourself to read this book. If not, you have just wasted thirty seconds for nothing, NOTHING! Most of all, it would be a real pity, not because you wasted a few seconds reading my review, but because you have come so close to becoming a master communicator. Read it and memorize the rules.sted thirty seconds for nothing, NOTHING! Most of all, it would be a real pity, not because you wasted a few seconds reading my review, but because you have come so close to becoming a master communicator. Read it and memorize the rules.	2003-07-27
US	39749854	R24TUPKFURUUVU	0380723743	344185101	Live Your Dreams	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Give your life a boost!	This is a great book for anyone who is feeling down or unmotivated and need a good boost.  I've read many motivational books, this is probably the best one.  Les Brown is not only a talented speaker but a very good writer as well.  You won't be bored for a second while reading this book.  What makes it an interesting read is that he always incorporate some of his personal stories with each lesson he preaches.<br />Here are some memorable teachings I treasure:<br />-Always set goals.  For today.  For this week.  For this month.  For 3 months.  For this year.  For 5 years...<br />-The only thing that can really stop you from living your dreams is you.<br />-Whatever you have done up to this point is a reflection of what you believe you deserve and what you believe is possible for your life.<br />-People with limited visions of themselves can not possibly have a larger vision of you.<br />-Don't operate on the basis of what you see.  Operate on the basis of the possibilities you envisioned.<br />I saved the best ones for last:<br />-Rule #1: Don't sweat the small stuff, Rule #2: It is all small stuff<br />-More important than anything else is the choice of our attitude.  Life is 10% what happens to me and 90% how I react to it.<br />-In the end, it is the person you become not the things you achieve, that is most important.	2003-07-18
US	39749854	R1AKKKF7YJJMNX	047111927X	467555011	Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits and Other Writings (Wiley Investment Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Advice you can trust	This is definitely one of the best investing books I ever read.  What separates this book from the rest is that it TELLS you how to invest.  This is not one of those wishy-washy, &quot;really depends on you&quot; type of investing book.  The author is 100% confident of his method and tells it as it is.  Tons of valuable information that I can't possibly summarize it here.  This book along with &quot;The Intelligent Investor&quot; lays the groundwork for Warren Buffet's approach.  If it's good enough for him, I think it's safe to say it's good enough for you.	2003-05-11
US	39749854	RQYBXE83F59AG	078815723X	696680628	Whiz Kid of Wall Street's Investment Guide: How I Returned 34% on My Portfolio, and You Can,Too	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pretty sound advice	This book offers some pretty good sound advice.  It is what you get if you put Warren Buffet and Peter Lynch together - not a bad combination.  Seto is basically a combination of growth and value investor while using's Lynch's &quot;Look Around You&quot; approach to finding prospective stocks and analyzing their numbers closely like Buffet.  He has a 3-step approach to investing: 1) Educate yourself 2) Think indepedently 3) Be logical.  Although this approach sounds vague, there is some good information in this book.  I was first attracted to this book because of the cover showing him as a young kid claiming how he beat the market.  Although usually I don't really heed advice from an unknown, his advice is the same as people I do trust, Buffet and Lynch.	2003-04-22
US	39749854	RV7LUX4EF1NI2	0811822508	796893169	Learn to Meditate: A Practical Guide to Self-Discovery and Fulfillment	Books	2	13	29	N	N	Not helpful for the beginner	Although this book gives you many ways on how to meditate, I think that kind of defeat the purpose.  Why do you meditate in the first place?  To relax and get things off your mind.  With so many techniques taught in this book, the ironic result is I have too much information in my head to start meditating.  Frankly, why do I have to read 150 pages before I can meditate?  A shorter book has got to be the way to go.	2003-02-19
US	39749854	R8T57C7HSNW9V	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	1	24	26	N	N	Rich Dad, Fake Dad	After reading, \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\", I was very skeptical whether the author really had two dads. The story sounded too fictional and perfect. My gut was right as a magazine article confirmed there was no Rich Dad (Smart Money, Feb 03). In the article, Kiyosaki admitted Rich Dad is as real as Harry Potter. What's more, claims in the book that he purchased six properties, each for twenty thousand dollars, and then flipped them in minutes for instant profits were also false. In the records, it showed he gotten each property for over forty thousand dollars and held on to them for more than twenty months.<br />I'm tired of these get-rich-quick books.  When will people ever learn there is no such thing.  There is only one way to get rich, and that is the get-rich-slow-and-hard way.  Anyone who wants the hard truth of getting rich should read \\"A Random Walk on Wall Street\\".  This book tells of a paradox of how a \\"hot buy\\" will eventually have so many people buying it, it will no longer be a \\"hot buy\\".  Likewise, if Kiyosaki knows something we don't, that information will be useless to us by the time it is printed out.  All of the author's friends and family and their friends and family and so on, the book publishers, editors, etc, etc will probably have used his techniques many times over that they are no longer effective.  Of course, there are timely information in Kiyosaki's book such as saving more than you earn and using that money to acquire assets.  But guess what?  This is directly from \\"The Richest Man in Babylon\\" which its writing is ten times better than any of Kiyosaki's books.  In fact, if you read all the books in reference section of \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\", you will have realized that Kiyosaki has absolutely no original ideas of his own!<br />Who would want you to buy on the idea of get-rich-quick?  Companies like Amway.  In fact, the author's biggest supporter who was instrumental in making \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\" a bestseller is Amway.  In the book, the author even supports MLM companies, no-money-down deals, and those get-rich-quick seminars!  The truth is, the author himself is guilty of being one of them.  In the end, people like him never really make money from what he preaches but only from your purchases.even supports MLM companies, no-money-down deals, and those get-rich-quick seminars!  The truth is, the author himself is guilty of being one of them.  In the end, people like him never really make money from what he preaches but only from your purchases.	2003-02-19
US	39749854	R1XF4713PGAZ3M	1568304331	528739605	Creating Killer Web Sites	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good guidelines	This book doesn't teach you html.  You should already know html before you buy this book.  This book teaches you how to design good looking web sites.  Personally, I don't think this can be taught.  There are many examples of good and bad sites, before and after sites, but the old saying, &quot;Can't teach an old dog new tricks&quot; goes when it comes to art and design.  Fortunately, these things are very subjective.  What is bad to me, may be good to you.  But in the end, there are only so few that really deserve to win a bikini contest.	2003-02-18
US	39749854	R1YOS7JZREFGE7	044020562X	640002369	One	Books	2	9	22	N	N	Boring, but somewhat inspirational	First of all, I like to congratulate all the readers that read this book more than once.  That is quite a feat. ONE time is more than enough.  This book is so boring for a fictional read.  It reminded me of the movie, &quot;Solaris&quot;, which is about going back in time only it added another twist: if you could change the past, would you?  Anyway, that movie is just as boring, but I must say it is better than this book because the actress is hot.  I thought the author's concept of &quot;One&quot; is quite confusing.  For instance, the chapter when Leslie encourages her younger self to pursue playing the piano, a path she had not taken, this will affect her life and what she is now.  In any case, I don't think one decision can totally change a whole person's life as some readers suggest.  If this was the case, we would all be in deep trouble.  There are always exceptions, such as deciding to buy that lottery ticket and winning, but usually it takes many decisions to shape one's life.  I don't buy this decision-making plot or the plot that everything is &quot;One&quot;.  But two stars for the nice self-help pieces littered throughout the book and for the nice cover.	2003-02-18
US	39749854	R2FI1B87P89J71	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A lesson in basic logic	This book is about a paradox.  The paradox is this: if everyone knows about a &quot;good buy&quot; and they all rush in to buy, the price of the &quot;good buy&quot; will rise until it is no longer a good buy.<br />This paradox is the basic idea behind the Efficient Market Theory which says the market is so efficient, no information can be used to predict the market.  And since nothing can be used to predict the market, the behavior of the market is that of a random-walk that cannot be predicted.<br />But hold on.  You may be asking why you can't be one of those people rushing in to buy while it is still a &quot;good buy&quot;?  Well, according to the book, more than two-thirds of professional portfolio managers have tried and got their butts kicked by the S&amp;P 500 over a twenty-five year period.<br />This book definitely leans toward a conservative approach but offers all options, objectively. Malkiel does not fully believe in an efficient market.  He believes in somewhere in between just as Warren Buffet. That is, the market does not always behave rationally or efficiently and it is precisely these times an intelligent investor can reap big rewards. He can't fully believe in an efficent market or the Random-Walk Theory. The studies mentioned above made it clear that one-third of the portfolio managers do beat the market. And then there is the legendary Warren Buffet who has consistently beat the market. The only difference between Malkiel and Buffet is attitude. Where as Buffet believes he can find those inefficiencies in the market and profit from them, Malkiel believes it is very rare and not worth the effort. So the former sees the bottle half-full and the latter sees it half-empty. How you invest depends on what type of person you are.<br />Let's look at the choices. Remember, two-thirds of the stock funds cannot beat the index, so that means one-third of them are outperfoming the market. These exceptional funds do exist (Magellan, Templeton), but the original portfolio managers are long gone. Or you can believe you are as smart as Warren Buffet! And pick your own winning stocks.  Good luck!  But if you can, this is a better way to invest than with mutual funds since there are no annual fees. Or just forget about it, and as the author suggests, buy that index fund. I like it, simple and in the mean between the extremes.  The fees for the index fund are very low and the turnover is low so you won't pay too much in taxes.<br />This book is also a great financial planning guide that teaches you how to allocate your assets and plan for your retirement.<br />The other useful hint I got from this book is to not buy any of those get-rich-quick or no-money-down books.  The author says those kind of things don't work and the guy writing them gets rich only from your purchases.  I always wonder about that.  Now he has confirmed it.  I choose to believe him because he doesn't make exaggerated claims and he basically shares the same view (although different attitude) with possibly the smartest man on earth, Warren Buffet.  Plus, he's an old dude (this book was first written in the 70's) and probably have gone through alot.  Lastly, the logic is all sound and I cannot find any holes in his book at all.  You cannot do wrong if you follow his advice.nal portfolio managers are long gone. Or you can believe you are as smart as Warren Buffet! And pick your own winning stocks.  Good luck!  But if you can, this is a better way to invest than with mutual funds since there are no annual fees. Or just forget about it, and as the author suggests, buy that index fund. I like it, simple and in the mean between the extremes.  The fees for the index fund are very low and the turnover is low so you won't pay too much in taxes.<br />This book is also a great financial planning guide that teaches you how to allocate your assets and plan for your retirement.<br />The other useful hint I got from this book is to not buy any of those get-rich-quick or no-money-down books.  The author says those kind of things don't work and the guy writing them gets rich only from your purchases.  I always wonder about that.  Now he has confirmed it.  I choose to believe him because he doesn't make exaggerated claims and he basically shares the same view (although different attitude) with possibly the smartest man on earth, Warren Buffet.  Plus, he's an old dude (this book was first written in the 70's) and probably have gone through alot.  Lastly, the logic is all sound and I cannot find any holes in his book at all.  You cannot do wrong if you follow his advice.	2003-02-13
US	39749854	R10AF56L3GF6XZ	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Just buy that index fund	According to the book and based on studies over a twenty-five year period, more than two-thirds of professionally-managed stock funds were outperformed by an unmanaged S&amp;P500 index fund.<br />There, I summarized the whole book.  I believe the author is credible because he holds the same view as Warren Buffet.  Malkiel does not fully believe in an efficient market or as he calls it, the random-walk theory (so much for the title).  He believes in somewhere in between just as Buffet.    That is, the market does not always behave rationally or efficiently and it is precisely these times an intelligent investor can reap big rewards.  He can't fully believe in the Random-Walk Theory.  The studies mentioned above made it clear that one-third of the portfolio managers do beat the market.  And then there is the legendary Warren Buffet who has consistently beat the market.  The only difference between Malkiel and Buffet is attitude.  Where as Buffet believes he can find those inefficiencies in the market and profit from them, Malkiel believes it is very rare and not worth the effort.  So the former sees the bottle half-full and the latter sees it half-empty.  How you invest depends on what type of person you are.<br />Let's look at the choices.  Remember, two-thirds of the stock funds cannot beat the index, so that means one-third of them are outperfoming the market.  So you can look for these guys and they do exist (Magellan, Templeton, although the original portfolio managers are long gone).  Or you can believe you are as smart as Warren Buffet!  And pick your own winning stocks...good luck...but if you can, this is a better way to invest than with mutual funds since there are no annual fees.  Or just forget it, and as the author suggests, buy that index fund.  I like it, simple and in the middle between the three choices since the fees for the index fund are very low.  But this is what the stock market is about without reading over 400 pages!	2003-02-05
US	39749854	R2B3NF6YQ4F417	0898795109	188978085	Comedy Writing Secrets: How to Think Funny, Write Funny, Act Funny and Get Paid For It	Books	3	11	16	N	N	Too long	This is one of those books that are way too long than it should be.  Very unfocused writing.  Good ideas, but the author can't write.  But three stars for a good analysis of what is comedy.  Comedy is something with a surprise and something that makes you feel superior.  The latter is so true and I never thought about it in that way...good analysis.  The author really breaks down on the ingredients of a good joke.  Good for anyone stuck and trying to create new jokes.  But don't feel bad, Letterman has a team of writers that write his jokes, and he's still not funny.	2003-02-03
US	39749854	RV3XQCMICXHVM	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	2	16	18	N	N	Relatively simple concept	This is a book for people who are afraid of change.  Personally, I was attracted by the title and thought it might be an interesting book.  The concept is too simple and not really useful to me because I actually love change and hate routine so it's not a book for everyone.  The cheese is a symbol for what is important to us in our lives.  It can be your relationship with someone, your job, etc.  I've highlighted some important ideas in this book.<br />First and foremost, the world is always changing so you must change with it.  Did I tell you the concept is simple or what?  Instead of questioning who moved your cheese, you should move with the cheese.  The sooner you let go of the old cheese, you will find your new cheese.<br />Don't worry too much.  When you relieve yourself of all worries and fears, you will feel free.<br />Anticipate for change.  When you look for signs of change, you will start planning for the future.  This will lessen the impact when change does occur.<br />Visualize the cheese and you will find the cheese.<br />Laugh at your mistakes.  Don't be too serious.  This will ensure you will move on and not remain stagnant.  Enjoy change.<br />That's it.  If you feel you did not gain anything from this review, you are wrong.  You gain the money you would have otherwise wasted on this book.	2003-01-30
US	39749854	R1C24LFFSGA7TO	0451205367	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	5	15	18	N	N	May you use their wisdom wisely	I came upon this book from the reference section in &quot;Rich Dad, Poor Dad&quot;.  Actually if you read all the books in that reference section, you will have realized that Kiyosaki has no original ideas of his own.  But getting back to this book...<br />The Babylonians were the first engineers, the first mathematicians.  They were the first with written history and a system of currency.  They built huge buidings and their fortress walls are one of the seven wonders of the world.  Now, all these are gone, but their wisdom remains eternal.<br />This book contains stories of the ancient Babylonians, each with an important lesson.  There is a bit of repetition, but this lesson is so important it might as well be repeated throughout the book.  This is the lesson of saving what you earned.  Save at least ten percent.  Even when you are not making alot, save that ten percent!  And before you know it, you will have this huge amount of money that you don't know what you should do with it.  But before you spend it on playstation games, wait!  This money should be used to help you make more money.  And the money you make from this, you save ten percent.  Then you use this money to make more money and save ten percent of what you earned and so on and so forth.  And before you know it, whamo!  You are the next Warren Buffet.<br />The other important lesson in this book is to work hard.  Treat hardwork as a friend rather as an enemy and you will be rewarded greatly.<br />These are more or less the messages of this book.  Simple as they sound, you should definitely read the book yourself because the stories are just amazingly inspirational and heart-felt.  Can you imagine they were carved in stone many centuries ago and still, they are some of the best writing and with MEANING as compared to most of the garbage writing printed out today?  This is the second best book I ever read.	2003-01-29
US	39749854	RYCKM7GB3IKTD	0375507493	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	1	14	18	N	N	The answer is still missing	Reading the inside flap of the book, the author says this is a book on how fifty people try to answer the question: What should I do with my life?  It continues that most people have failed, some are still in the process, and two have actually succeeded.  Now, a person skimming over this would say, &quot;Okay, interesting book&quot;.  But wait.  It say MANY have failed and only TWO have succeeded.  Is this the stuff that will help you answer what you should do with your life?<br />Nooooooo way.  Each chapter contains a profile and is very short.  For instance, there is a chapter about a woman trying to figure out what she should do with her life and frustrated, the chapter ends!  Holy cow!  Am I supposed to feel better because she is as lost as I am?!  And who are all these people?  They are ordinary people like you and I.  This book would be no difference from you going around the streets asking people about their stories.  The author only puts in his two cents in the introduction and closing chapter.  The book is huge but it is a fast read because there is nothing important you need to pick up.  It reads very much like a fiction book because the author writes it as such.  The writing is not concise and to-the-point as most non-fiction books are.  It is definitely not a self-help book because it does not help you at all, but, more a &quot;self&quot; book to help the author make some quick bucks.  Can you say PRICEY?<br />Before reading this book, you asked, &quot;What should I do with my life?&quot;  After reading it, you will answer, &quot;What should I do with my life?&quot;  No kidding.  But nice unity of plot.	2003-01-29
US	39749854	R3LY45BG6GPFI8	1891984012	701689723	Young Millionaires: Inspiring Stories to Ignite Your Entreprenurial Dreams	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Interesting read	This book is about 101 successful businesses and how they got started.  Although it does not contain details on how to start a business, it contains lots of good ideas and lots of inspiration, two important qualities of a entrepeneur.  You will enjoy reading some better known businesses like Terra Chips as well as lesser known ones like Three Dog Bakery who makes gourmet biscuits for dogs.  It's amazing a dog biscuit company makes over a million dollars a year, but since this book is about young millionaires, every company profiled in this book makes over this amount.	2003-01-23
US	39749854	R1U6E4BIQ21STP	0136891268	909972162	Unlimited Selling Power: How to Master Hypnotic Selling Skills	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Techniques you can use anywhere	Although this book teaches you hypnotic sales techniques, you don't necessarily need to be a salesperson to use these techniques.  Much of life is &quot;selling&quot; anyway.  For instance, you have to sell yourself to the other person that you would make a good friend or a good boyfriend or a good employee, etc.  The hypnotic salesperson is really a master communicator.  Who would not benefit by being a master communicator?  Great communication skills is one of the most important traits of any successful person.  If you are lucky enough to come across to this book, definitely read it.  These skills will prove very valuable throughout your life.	2003-01-18
US	39749854	RQEXAVMMWJ0BJ	006103083X	37054433	A Week in the Zone	Books	5	127	135	N	N	A new approach to weight loss	Losing weight used to mean losing calories.  Not according to the author.  Losing weight now means controlling your hormone levels, mainly your insulin level.  According to the author, insulin is responsible for telling the cells to store fat and keep it.  The way to reduce insulin levels is by reducing your intake of grains and complex carbs.  However, your diet should still be mostly carbs, but the types that do not stimulate insulin release as much such as fruits and vegetables.  Carbs are considered anything that grow on the ground.  Protein and fat are considered good because the former releases glucagon which tells cells to release stored energy and the latter slow down the absorption of carbs into the bloodstream.<br />How to lose weight:<br />-Shop in the peripheries of the supermarket.  This is where all the fresh fruits and vegetables and lean protein-rich foods such as fish and chicken are located.<br />-Eat only monounsaturated and omega-3 fats from`nuts, olive oil, avocados, and fish.<br />-Fresh frozen produce are usually better than non-frozen ones because the nutrients are kept intact.<br />-Eat your carbs, proteins, and fats in a 3:2:1 ratio for each meal.<br />-Eat 5 meals a day to stablize insulin level.	2003-01-14
US	39749854	R373OEOWDLDP3B	0446530867	906459664	Rich Dad's Prophecy: Why the Biggest Stock Market Crash in History Is Still Coming...and How You Can Prepare Yourself and Profit from It!	Books	1	45	50	N	N	Rich Dad, Fake Dad	After reading, \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\", I was very skeptical whether the author really had two dads.  The story sounded too fictional and perfect.  My gut was right as a magazine article confirmed there was no Rich Dad (Smart Money, Feb 03).  In the article, Kiyosaki admited Rich Dad is as real as Harry Potter.  What's more, claims in the book that he purchased six properties, each for twenty thousand dollars, and then flipped them in minutes for instant profits were also false.  In the records, it showed he gotten each property for over forty thousand dollars and held on to them for more than twenty months.<br />Now, with his new book, \\"Prophecy\\", the author hopes to cash in on people's emotions riding on the current stock market crash.  In this book, he cautions people that there will be another crash coming up in 2016 because a lot of people will be withdrawing from their 401k plans for retirement.  How can anyone predict what people will do with their money?  Some people may keep their money in stocks till the day they die, some may convert to bonds ten years before retirement, others may do it five years ahead, and so on.  Anyone that thinks this prediction is reasonable needs only to think alittle bit harder.<br />Let's look at the author's solution to this problem: build new businesses and invest in real estate.  In case you don't already know, eighty percent of new businesses fail in the first five years.  Hardly a non-risk venture.  And surely you heard what happened to the Japanese and Florida real estate market in the past (should do some reading if you haven't).<br />OK, I admit, an investing magazine has every right to trash him for what he wrote in \\"Prophecy\\" (although they really did uncover a lot of trash on him).  But let's look at some facts.  His biggest supporter who was instrumental in making \\"Rich Dad, Poor Dad\\" a bestseller is Amway.  Amway!  That's enough to build my trust.  Also, just look at all the products the author is pushing at us - expensive games, a whole library of \\"Rich Dad\\" books, seminars.  Where does he find time to be a millionaire?  Let's look at some truly rich people, Bill Gates and Warren Buffet, each who has written only two books.  The point is, rich people are too busy making money from what they do, they don't have time to do all those seminars or write so many books.  The author is rich, alright, and he has gotten that way from your purchases!sive games, a whole library of \\"Rich Dad\\" books, seminars.  Where does he find time to be a millionaire?  Let's look at some truly rich people, Bill Gates and Warren Buffet, each who has written only two books.  The point is, rich people are too busy making money from what they do, they don't have time to do all those seminars or write so many books.  The author is rich, alright, and he has gotten that way from your purchases!	2003-01-11
US	39749854	R2RDN1O7PSBYXR	076790088X	351918605	Upstart Start-Ups!: How 34 Young Entrepreneurs Overcame Youth, Inexperience, and Lack of Money to Create Thriving Businesses	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The first book to read before you start your own business	Anyone starting his own business should read this book.  The writing is clear and concise.  The author is definitely a real writer.  And each chapter is loaded with facts that are essential for anyone starting up.  To really hit home, the author provides each chapter with examples from real start-ups such as Motley Fool and Kate Spade.  The only downside is since this is such a quick read, more resources will be necessary.  The chapters on business plan writing and marketing are more like primers which you need to read up on for these mandatory skills.  But no worries, the author provides tons of resources in the appendix for additional reading.  If you read this and then read \\"Think and Grow Rich\\"...it just might be your ticket out of that ka-rappy job.	2003-01-08
US	39749854	ROUJNL5M9YHDX	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ok, but not great	Although I thought &quot;Unlimited Power&quot; was better, I actually read this book first during a down time in my life...when the gurl of my dreams told me we can't be together.  I read &quot;Unlimited Power&quot; recently after I got laid off.  I can only speak for myself, but I found these books to be good for the short-term.  By that, I mean they can really heal inner wounds while you are reading it, but afterwards, it doesn't really last.  I blame the complexity of Robbin's techniques.  NLP is no beginner concept.  Personally, I found it too complicated to effectively apply to my life.  There are lots of great ideas in this book, but they are only as great as how well you remember them and use them to empower your life.  So why the four stars?  Well, yes, I do remember one concept from this book.  One that is so powerful that I use it as my eternal goal in life in addition to my other more specific goals:  the concept of CANI - Constant And Never-Ending Improvement.  With this goal, you will never fail in life.	2003-01-08
US	39749854	RM09R6AHLCII4	0449214923	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Many interesting ideas and lots of inspiration	According to the author, deep inside everyone of us is a Sixth Sense that holds the knowledge of obtaining whatever we want, but first we must master basic principles to help us tap into this knowledge.<br />These principles are also necessary in the author's formula for success: create a burning DESIRE backed with a definite PLAN, PERSISTENCE, and a POSITIVE attitude with SUPPORT from others.<br />Creating a definite plan is usually the toughest part, but this may be delivered to us by our Sixth Sense if we create a buring desire through the use of Autosuggestion, repetition of thoughts mixed with emotion.  I know not the Sixth Sense, but I do know that if I focus on something strongly, I often see things related to what I'm focusing on.  For instance, if I buy a convertible of a certain make, I will start noticing every convertible of this make passing by or parked on the street!  Likewise, if you concentrate only on your desire to be rich, you will start seeing things that will enable you to be rich.  I have read in another book that the secret of haves and have-nots is one thing: the ability to \\"see it\\".  I did not know what this meant when I read that book, but after reading this book, I fully understand.  Applying Autosuggestion, I will be more prepared and thus have the ability to \\"see it\\".<br />Nothing should be overlooked in this book.  For instance, the principle of persistance occupy a whole chapter, but how many people actually apply it to their lives?  For me, I find this principle somewhat tricky because how would I know if I'm making a big mistake and should just stop or I should just keep trying and eventually it will work out?  I guess this is when the Sixth Sense will tell me.<br />Among interesting ideas are that successful people make decisions quickly and change them slowly.  Unsuccessful people make decisions slowly and change them quickly and often.  Probably the most interesting idea is found in the chapter on sex transmutation.  According to this chapter, pretty much everything man do is to please women.  At first glance, I can't believe what I'm reading.  But then it goes on to say that because of this fact, a woman can make or break a man, in other words, she's the boss (ie. Hillary Clinton, Your Wife!).  Scary thought.  But the author reassures you that this is a good thing because you can harness this power (to please women) as a driving force for your success.<br />It's really hard to summarize this book in a few words.  That is why I only gave it four stars.  The writing is not concise, somewhat unfocused, and sometimes contradicting.  If there is anything to remember from this book, it's this: you have the power to get whatever you want by controlling your thoughts.  If you think you will get it, you will.  If you think you will fail, you will fail.this chapter, pretty much everything man do is to please women.  At first glance, I can't believe what I'm reading.  But then it goes on to say that because of this fact, a woman can make or break a man, in other words, she's the boss (ie. Hillary Clinton, Your Wife!).  Scary thought.  But the author reassures you that this is a good thing because you can harness this power (to please women) as a driving force for your success.<br />It's really hard to summarize this book in a few words.  That is why I only gave it four stars.  The writing is not concise, somewhat unfocused, and sometimes contradicting.  If there is anything to remember from this book, it's this: you have the power to get whatever you want by controlling your thoughts.  If you think you will get it, you will.  If you think you will fail, you will fail.	2003-01-02
US	39749854	R1RMY5GCKMG2DV	0312093225	671360795	Lee Haney's Ultimate Bodybuilding Book: The 8-time Mr. Olympia's Revolutionary Program for Building Mass, Strength and Power	Books	3	4	10	N	N	Way too hardcore	This book is definitely not for beginners or even intermediate or advanced bodybuilders.  It is for the pros!  The routine is Haney's own and is way too much for normal people.  Besides, each person's body is unique and will require a different routine to build mass.  Try &quot;Weider's System of Bodybuilding&quot; for a more personalized approach.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R1FE8FFOB83AWE	1575211416	924219753	Laura Lemay's Web Workshop Javascript (Laura Lemay's Web Workshop Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My Programming Bible	Talk about an investment.  I got this book for like thirty bucks and with the knowledge it provided I was able to more than double my salary in two years.  Although some aggressive negotiating is still involved, in the end I still have to know my stuff and this book has provided me with it.  Clear and easy to follow examples given throughout.  When you built a solid foundation, go to the web for more updated information.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R1QFFQ8JA7WZEE	0809230585	349807223	From Gutterballs to Strikes: Correcting 101 Common Bowling Errors	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Terrific book for anyone who wants to improve	This is a great book because it acts as a personal coach.  It will help you correct 101 common problems in bowling.  If you think about it, it is a pretty clever book.  After all, what do people do often when they are learning the game?  Make mistakes!  Great book for all levels.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R29FI0R2MFZG8	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best fiction book I ever read	I don't like reading fiction at all.  The only time I ever read fiction was in school.  That is when I read this book.  Could you imagine, I still remember this book after reading it more than ten years ago!?  It had a much long-lasting impact on me.  Of course, the writing is superb and hypnotizing, but what I treasure most is the irony at the end.  A cleverly, truthful, and untimely uncovering of the hypocrisy we live with in this world.  As a non-fiction reader, I highly recommend it!	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R3UOJKE50BO89D	0684857219	387508716	The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding : The Bible of Bodybuilding, Fully Updated and Revised	Books	4	0	1	N	N	For serious bodybuilders only	Anyone that is really serious in becoming big should read this book.  It is really long, but covers everything you need to know about the topic of getting big.  The pictures are fabulous and inspirational for anyone shooting for that kind of physique.  I recommend some smaller books for beginners because this is just too much for someone starting out to digest.  However, you should definitely read something on weighttraining or hire a personal trainer before you hit the gym because it is very easy to injure yourself if you don't know what you are doing or even if you think you know, you probably don't.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R2ENEX9HHL7DS0	094210417X	820125659	How to Satisfy A Woman Every Time	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Very useful book if you don't already know	I'm somewhat surprised by the three stars rating for this book.  This book contains information that has been proven scientifically.  That is, it takes a woman a lot longer to get aroused than a man.  All the teasing and long foreplay is done for one reason, to help her get aroused and that eventual orgasm.  Conversely, it also takes a woman longer to cool down and therefore she can keep going indefinitely.  Unfortunately, a man peaks and troughs very fast and brief.  Bummer.  There are no gimmicks, only science.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	RFJSO7TAV9ELW	1578590000	357343553	Bud Collins' Tennis Encyclopedia (3rd ed)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	For tennis freaks	This book is huge and is not to read for enjoyment. It is a book filled with stats, rules, and tons of information on tennis. Why would a normal person want to know all of this? He won't. Who would want to buy this? A tennis freak. What exactly is a tennis freak? He would be someone that plays tennis almost everyday if not every weekend at the very least. Someone who would play rain, snow, sleet, or shine. Someone who would tape all the best matches on TV and then analyze them frame-by-frame later. Someone whose conversation goes something like this: \\"Remember the lob Edberg threw over Becker on the last set, eigth game at the 1990 Wimbledon? My God, that was the turning point of the entire match!\\"	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R351TBULB2MR5S	0809255596	101786592	The Weider System of Bodybuilding	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Follow it religiously	If you want to get big, follow everything what this book says, religiously.  This is the best book in bodybuilding I read so far.  You may also want to read &quot;Arnold's Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding&quot;.  Another comprehensive although lengthy book.  Only read this if you are serious.  But for everyone else, Weider's book is fine and to the point.  I have been working out for four years now and I must say the most important things about building muscle is not to overdo it, change it up often to trick the muscles, and mentally, think BIG.  I believe these are universal points because as you will find out, many muscle building tips are not and are different for everyone.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	RTSV13VZUACJH	0316353809	705080285	How to Buy Stocks	Books	1	8	37	N	N	Not a good book at all	This book seems to be a good eye catcher because of the color and the simplicity of the title. It definitely caught my attention to buy it. Was I sorry it did. This book provides nothing whatsoever. Everything is very straighforward and commonsense unless you are a five-year-old, then yes, you should buy this book. You ever get this feeling when you are reading a book that it seems you are reading a whole lot but not getting any information out of it? This is exactly the feeling I was getting while reading this book. If you truly want to KNOW about investing then get \\"A Random Walk Down Wall Street\\". This book summarizes what investing and the stock market is all about and the writing is superb.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R2HB3FBLRL0VFZ	1884654053	243067143	Bowler's Start-Up: A Beginner's Guide to Bowling (Start-Up Sports series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great book for anyone new to bowling	This is what every non-fiction book should be.  Brief, to-the-point, and effective.  And this book is very brief.  You may probably be able to read it in a half hour and then head straight to the alley and practice.  This book is very clear and provides easy-to-follow pictures, too. I understand everything the author is trying to say.  Lastly, this book is effective because I followed its exact instructions and I'm able to bowl with a nice hook, something I always wanted to know how to do.  Although you won't be able to learn more advanced skills or more fancier hooks, this is not suppose to be a comprehensive guide to bowling.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R2KEVEKUAZBDCJ	0809239477	235426968	Gold's Gym Mass Building Training and Nutrition System	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very comprehensive book on bodybuilding	This is by far the most comprehensive book on bodybuilding that I read and possibly even more so than Arnold's &quot;Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding&quot;.  The exercises are grueling, no doubt.  But you better be hardcore if you are reading this book.  Very good chapter on nutrition.  Many books forget that this is a key to getting huge.  The part it talks about different types of bodybuilders, it does not give enough information on determining if one is a slow-gainer.  This type will have to train slowly and work up.  Otherwise, excellent book on this topic.	2002-12-18
US	39749854	R3GLMBB5UHO9SQ	086568006X	295024509	Shaolin Fighting: Theories, Concepts	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Can't learn martial arts by reading	If you don't already know, you can't really learn martial arts by reading.  I've bought books on taekwondo, ninjitsu, and kung-fu and it finally hit me when I got this third book that I'm wasting my money.  If you really want to learn the art, take classes.  I have gotten my black belt in taekwondo this way (another point: can't get your black belt through reading) and even after accomplishing this feat, I still have to continue taking the classes or else I forget everything.  Unlike learning to ride a bike, this stuff goes strictly on the maxim, &quot;Lose it, if you don't use it&quot;.  The pictures are not as bad as other reviewers say.  I can follow them.  Whether the fighting sequences actually work, I'm somewhat doubtful but some of them are hilariously funny.  The other part that was funny was about the ESP power some instructors possess but very few are willing to teach it for fear of misuse.  And then the part on &quot;dim muk&quot; that you can freeze a person with a touch of the hand.  That sounds like a load of you-know-what.  I lose some credibility of the author when he mentioned these things.  I'm sure he can probably break concrete or rocks or whatever.  This is no magic.  Through repetition this can be trained just like I can train my pecs to be bigger through weight-training.  The only interesting part in this book is on the history of kung-fu, but then you can get that off the web.	2002-12-17
US	39749854	R10ZG50PM81XRU	0060968966	481618532	Linda Goodman's Love Signs: A New Approach to the Human Heart	Books	3	5	13	N	Y	Not a must-have book	I got this book because I read one of the reviews here that says this was better than &quot;Sun Signs&quot;, an earlier book by the same author.  I totally beg to differ.  This book is much bigger than &quot;Sun Signs&quot; but ironically not as useful.  The size of the book is a result of what the author has to say about each pairing of the signs, male and female.  It does not tell you whether they are compatible or not, but only gives you the plus and negative sides and let you decide.  Well, if that is the case, why bother even pairing the signs?  I can be the judge after reading the sign of my potential partner in &quot;Sun Signs&quot; and then I'll decide whether she is right for me or not.  In the end, it is more or less of what you read in &quot;Sun Signs&quot;.  In many cases, much less than &quot;Sun Signs&quot;.	2002-12-13
US	39749854	R16RMHIURL223T	0446362999	463658922	Super Reading Secrets	Books	2	28	40	N	N	Didn't work for me	I took Berg's class and read this book, but I still can't read as fast or nearly as fast as him.  I admit I read a lot faster now, but I can't say it is because of him.  I owe it to practice.  Simply, the more you read, the faster you will read and understand it better.  There is no magic formula.  One of the techniques Berg teaches is to use your hand as a guide to train your eyes to follow your hand, so the faster you move your hand, the faster your eyes move and therefore read faster.  I actually read faster without the hand and using it just gives me headaches.  Plus, if you really enjoy reading, I cannot believe reading a page in seconds will be an enjoyable experience.  This may be a good thing for students trying to get all the information they need for exams.  And the book provides some really good studying tips.  Unfortunately when I read this, I already graduated.  This is a must-read for all students.  Berg is definitely a talented guy that can do what he claims, but you would have to be just as talented to used his speed reading techniques.	2002-12-11
US	39749854	RC6VM7Y9F51ON	0786602783	114778688	You Can Teach Yourself to Sing	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Can't teach myself to sing	I didn't know at the time, but I thought I could actually teach myself to sing so I bought this book.  Maybe if you play the piano or you are very talented, that is possible, but nothing beats taking lessons.  In stuff such as acting, dancing, or singing, it is very difficult to learn by reading.  These things are usually learn by doing since they all involve movement of some sort.	2002-12-11
US	39749854	R121ACMYMEXGXS	0804816565	497732955	The Ninja and Their Secret Fighting Art	Books	2	4	13	N	N	Very hard to read	This book may be informative, but I think it is way too informative.  How so?  It is describing martial arts movement.  I don't know about you, but reading how a hand moves or how a weapon moves is very hard to follow.  These things are meant to be seen.  Some topics like the history and the philosophy makes good reading, but when the author becomes too descriptive with the techniques, it becomes very difficult to follow.  Also, the style of writing does not make it easier to read either.	2002-12-11
US	39749854	RVTV6G2AIAQ85	0471381802	894660186	Multiple Streams of Income	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Use with caution	The major problem I have with this book is that it sounds like a cheap informercial and personally I don't have too much faith on what informercials promise because, like this book, they make exaggerated claims and hard-sell you.  The first few chapters of the book are very inspirational (from the hard-selling) but true.  I still practice these techniques such as saving frugally, not using my credit card (reduce your spending by 20% according to studies), and budgeting all my expenses.  That last is probably the most important of all because by keeping track of everything you spend, you will be less likely to spend.  However, some streams mentioned should be followed with caution.  One way of creating a stream is by buying the \\"Dogs of the Dow\\", selected companies in the index.  Although they have beaten the dow by 3% each year, this is easily evaporated by the taxes and commissions you pay since the \\"Dogs\\" must be updated each year.  Another stream mentioned was multi-level marketing.  If you go to the FTC website, they actually have a warning on MLM companies.  In any case, in the hands of someone intelligent, this is a worthy book of ideas.	2002-12-11
US	39749854	R6HD7JSDKMKXO	0804833095	47584124	Making Out in Japanese (Making Out Books)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Get this book!	I first came across this book from a friend's recommendation and when I read it I thought it was hilarious!  But little did I know that the stuff actually works!  I managed to pick up a couple of Japanese girls with these lines and they were cracking up as well.  Of course, that was only the beginning and we end up having much more fun later on.	2002-12-11
US	39749854	R1WNPU9JX222HQ	047133202X	357966244	How to be a Billionaire: Proven Strategies from the Titans of Wealth	Books	1	46	54	N	N	All Common Sense, nothing you don't already know	In the first chapter, the author makes a point on how vague early get-rich books are so he assures I am holding the manual that will teach me how to be a &quot;billionaire&quot;.  He also stresses how autobiographies/biographies are merely stories and lack the emphasis of key principles that are essential to becoming a &quot;billionaire&quot;.  After reading this book, I realized the author is a complete hypocrite.  What's more, he works at a paper-pushing job at an investment bank...hardly a credible author for this type of subject!  Not only is this book vague, but it is just a compilation of short biographies.  The chapters are organized into the key principles that the author believes are necessary for becoming a &quot;billionaire&quot;.  But this is misleading.  Each chapter just goes about telling stories of one or two billionaires without any in-depth discussion on the principle.  This is horribly, unfocused writing.  The style of writing makes it hard to digest also.  Most of the principles are pretty commonsense, too.  For example, one principle is &quot;Dominate Your Market&quot;.  Duh!  Now, if you tell me how to do that, I will gladly do it!  Another one is &quot;Invest in Political Influence&quot;.  Most of us would not have the money to do that and if we did, we probably do it without anyone telling us to.  In the end, the author tells us to think rich, inspire yourself, take action, enjoy life, and don't give up.  This is acceptable if I wanted to read one of those inspirational self-help books, but I wanted to know how to be a billionaire.	2002-12-05
US	39749854	R1CZFAK663FHFF	0688126596	169285766	Model: The Ugly Business of Beautiful Women	Books	5	54	58	N	Y	Interesting read	This book does exactly what the title says, it reveals the ugly side of the modeling business.  However, it is an older book so you won't hear any recent names.  There is another book out there, &quot;Shut up and Smile&quot; that covers more recent models.  But the writing from that book is no comparison to this one.  This book is by someone that knows how to write and the stories are very in-depth which can only make the book better.  The pictures are also better in this book.	2002-12-05
US	39749854	R3DM56196P5H1T	0972016600	489259226	Make Every Girl Want You	Books	4	45	54	N	Y	A different approach	This book teaches a totally different approach on picking up girls.  The steps are as follows: 1) develop a good PLATONIC friendship with her by hanging out in a group (platonic is in caps because that is key in the beginning) 2) hang out one-to-one in this still PLATONIC relationship 3) she will attack you 4) remain friends with her even after break-up.<br />I know the above steps sound crazy, but there are many ways to develop this platonic relationship and what the authors suggest is the way that will make girls want you.  I never had any problem making new friends.  In fact, you probably know you can become friends with females just by acting the way you do with your male buddies.  So before I read this book, I would just try to be the center of attention which isn't that hard for me to do because I'm naturally a funny guy.  Sometimes to the girls, I just be extra nice to them and voila, they are my friends but I get no sex, of course.<br />What this book preaches is the other way, the correct way to make female friends known as CCR.  This stands for Compliments, Compassion, and Reassurance.  These are the ingredients to building quality relationships with females because every female is in need for compliments, attention (someone to listen to), and validation.  If you think about it, guys need this too so you can actually build good quality friendships with any sex.  This is a lesson in good communication skills and this will get the girl wanting you more and eventually, for sex if you supplement CCR with confidence, patience, and infrastructure (building a strong network of female friends - girls like guys who other girls feel comfortable with).<br />I only gave it four stars because I haven't tried the techniques yet, but I will change it to five once I know for sure that it works.  Still, I have read other books on picking up girls and they all preach the same techniques.  The old saying that it doesn't hurt to try is not the case with the techniques taught by the other books.  They stress on odds and the more girls you hit on, the better the chances.  Well, after a lot of rejections, believe me, it hurts!  And not to mention all the money you will be spending...for nothing if it doesn't work out!  Here, at least you end up having a lot of friends, both females and males and enjoying the time you spent in a group or one-to-one, if it doesn't work out.  This is a method that truly doesn't hurt to try.<br />I rarely listen to what other people say because I'm so busy trying to be the center of attention and I rarely offer any reassurance because I would rather poke fun at whatever problems people are having to get some laughs.  So the only thing I was doing right, according to the book, is the complimenting part.  I have overcame my confidence problem by reading other self-help books and I am also very patient, but I never tried to keep an infrastructure of female friends going.  If the girl has a boyfriend, she is automatically off my list.  If she broke up with me, she is off my list, too.  This is bad.  The girl with a boyfriend may break up and I would be missing out.  In any case, it is always better to have lots of friends since you will bound to need them in the future.  I am very excited to try this new method out and wish you luck as well.by the other books.  They stress on odds and the more girls you hit on, the better the chances.  Well, after a lot of rejections, believe me, it hurts!  And not to mention all the money you will be spending...for nothing if it doesn't work out!  Here, at least you end up having a lot of friends, both females and males and enjoying the time you spent in a group or one-to-one, if it doesn't work out.  This is a method that truly doesn't hurt to try.<br />I rarely listen to what other people say because I'm so busy trying to be the center of attention and I rarely offer any reassurance because I would rather poke fun at whatever problems people are having to get some laughs.  So the only thing I was doing right, according to the book, is the complimenting part.  I have overcame my confidence problem by reading other self-help books and I am also very patient, but I never tried to keep an infrastructure of female friends going.  If the girl has a boyfriend, she is automatically off my list.  If she broke up with me, she is off my list, too.  This is bad.  The girl with a boyfriend may break up and I would be missing out.  In any case, it is always better to have lots of friends since you will bound to need them in the future.  I am very excited to try this new method out and wish you luck as well.	2002-12-01
US	39749854	R2GQSCDX1DZVTS	1580650139	189219618	The Actor's Encyclopedia of Casting Directors: Conversations with Over 100 Casting Directors on How to Get the Job	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Good reading	I enjoy reading this book.  It is useful for when you are submitting or auditioning for these casting directors since after reading the book, you know what they want.  Or do you?  I find people changing their minds very frequently and we as human beings are always changing.  What is printed on the book, may no longer be true after a few years.  However, it is interesting to read just what each person thinks an actor is or should do during auditions.  I think as a whole, the book is useful because it provides some universal principles that we can all treasure and use in every aspect of our lives.	2002-11-26
US	39749854	R2RGFUOHSOCF55	0553278827	189997116	Linda Goodman's Sun Signs	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Very accurate	I came across this book while waiting for something exciting to happen.  A friend of mine offered to let me read it.  After reading my own sign I was just totally amazed.  Almost everything I read was true.  The next sign I read belonged to this girl that I really liked but did not work out.  I can't say what would happen had I read this book first, but I can say I would definitely know more about her than I had during our brief courtship.  Not only is this book accurate, but it is very detailed too.	2002-11-24
US	39749854	R26MTZWGPKO00J	0028627393	557734626	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Dating (2nd Edition)	Books	1	4	15	N	N	Nothing you don't already know	This book is a complete waste of money.  I'm not sure why I even got it in the first place.  Oh, right...to get a chick.  You know, after reading this book, I almost forgot because it was so boring.  Frankly, none of the \\"idiot's\\" books are any good.  I will never read any one of them again.	2002-11-22
US	39749854	RRKCDJS3Q89L1	0440502438	775990395	Stand-Up Comedy: The Book	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You will start killing them after reading this	I started doing stand-up after taking a class.  I must say this book was better than the class!  Everything you need to develop your own funny monologue.  Even if you decide not to pursue a career as a comedian, you can improve your sense of humor which will help you in your communication skills.  What is funny is usually something with a surprise at the end.  Another funny topic is a known truth that society tries to keep under the rugs.  The life as a comedian is rough, no pay and minimum required guests (at least in NYC).  In addition to excerpts of monologues from famous comedians, this book also offers encouragement to beginners.  It was told that during Arsenio Hall's first time at stand-up, he walked out the door when they announced his name.  So don't feel bad if you get nervous.	2002-11-17
US	39749854	R13I3P8J6LTMVF	1590400178	526154570	The Warren Buffett Portfolio	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Not sure what this is about	I'm not sure what this is about after reading it.  Actually I'm even more surprised noone has reviewed this (or read this?) or maybe I shouldn't be?  Some chapters are written to reinforce the idea that a focus investment approach works.  There is a chapter on the history of modern finance, another with mini-biographies of the Buffet roster.  One on probabilities, but very vague at how to apply this for our own use.  Then there is a chapter on behavioral finance and a chapter on proving why short-term forecasting does not work.  How all this have to do with Warren Buffet, is anyone's guess.  The author tries hard to associate these ideas with Buffet, but fails miserably.  Ultimately, it is just a finance book littered with a dozen interesting facts with no coherence and an abundance of paraphrases from &quot;Outstanding Investor Digest&quot;.  Personally I only find the chapter on investor psychology and the &quot;El Farol&quot; problem (a proof why you cannot predict the market) facinating, but you can get this information from any good finance book.	2002-11-16
US	39749854	R1PEVA7CQ8S96T	0471318876	437261523	Smart Guide to Buying a Home (The Smart Guides Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	All the information you need to buy a house	If you ever want to find out the grueling process of buying a home, this book will tell you all the gory details from budgeting your expenses to find out how much house you can afford to paying all those crazy closing costs.  There are some tips and reminders scattered throughout the book.  The chapter on negotiating with references to &quot;The Art of War&quot; is going alittle too far...the authors had way too much while writing that chapter.	2002-11-13
US	39749854	RCQXKWLXRTIQS	0740703579	669904317	The Millionaire Mind	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very informative	I enjoy reading this book because it is based on an actual survey of millionaires.  Unlike most personal finance books, the ideas are not based on one person, the author.  It is surprising to see some of the misconceptions we usually associate with millionaires such as fancy cars and houses when the majority of the millionaires do not want fancy cars because they depreciate rapidly in value and live in respectable residents that they got for a deep discount.  It is also inspirational because most of the millionaires were not A-students.  I recommend it highly.	2002-11-13
US	39749854	R283G9BV8JW4WR	1581152132	948749051	An Actor's Guide--Making It in New York City	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very informative book	I like this book alot.  I can't say this is better than &quot;How to be a Working Actor&quot;, but you actually need both books because some information that is found in one book is not found in the other.  Like regular acting guides, you get tips on resumes, auditions, and unions.  One useful tip for actors is to not over-rehearse a scene or monologue.  This will make it stale.  You should actually &quot;forget&quot; it and let it &quot;happen&quot;.  This is what you called acting.  If you are familiar with Mr. Alterman's books, he always include interviews with industry people.  I find them very helpful especially the interviews with several New York actors.  This book is just as good as &quot;Working Actor&quot; and thinner too for faster reading.	2002-11-13
US	39749854	R2OE4OXG64LMDL	1581150385	218118376	Creating Your Own Monologue	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not the best monologue book	This book contains two parts.  The first part tells you how to write a monologue.  The second is a compilation of interviews with one-person show actors and actresses.  It is the second part I find most informative where each artist tells what this type of performance means to him.  One artist describes it as theatre where the audience is part of the cast.  Very true.  But I find the monologue writing part of the book useless.  Nothing I don't already know.  The monologues included in the book are not much better.	2002-11-13
US	39749854	R1IFVYU8M2DK9X	0786864370	283279775	How to Become CEO: The Rules for Rising to the Top of Any Organization	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good for the rat race	If you are thinking of staying in the rat race for a while, this book is for you.  After reading it, everything sounds so common sense.  What's the point of reading it?  But ah, not to everyone.  The really docile, will know this already.  But for the rest of us, rebels or potential entrepeneurs who do not fit in the corporate world, this is must reading for the time-being or risk unemployment.  CEO or not, this book will suppress our soul and turn us into sheep.	2002-11-13
US	39749854	R2TGX9JUKPJD6U	048620622X	631615773	On Studying Singing (Dover Books on Music)	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Not true!	It was unfortunate this was the first singing book I ever read and so I gave up on singing.  Pretty much the author say singing is a borned talent and cannot be taught.  Not true!  Recently, I started taking some singing lessons to find out for myself and I have improved dramatically.  You can do anything in life if you have good discipline and alot of perserverence!  Don't let anyone tell you that you can't.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R2AHS3O7WKQKXV	0968480403	243309993	Shut Up and Smile: Supermodels, the Dark Side	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	Good for anyone thinking of modeling	This book offers the dark side of the modeling business, a much needed account since we only see the beauty and glamour associated with it.  The dark side consists of grueling shoot hours and strict diets forcing young models into cocaine and drug habits just to keep up with the pace.  Then there is the gloomy life of prostitution many struggling models turn to with no help from the horny old agents who would drug or blackmail them to have sex.  It is very sick, but intriguing reading since most people like to read about beautiful people.  I gave it three stars because the price is pretty steep for such a book.  I can't believe I bought it.  The pictures are really bad so there was no point of including them in the book.  Also, the author went undercover with the intent to expose dirt, but only offers stories from other people's accounts.  Most of the sleezy stuff happen to the no-name models so the title of the book is quite misleading.  I like the section about the up-and-coming supermodels.  My favorite being Devon Aoki because she looks so exotic.  You should search for her website...cool stuph.  But the chapter on Jenny McCartney and Versace is irrelevant.  I pay good money to read about supermodels [...]!	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R3H8BGFY97NX59	0887307280	499218489	The E-Myth Revisited: Why Most Small Businesses Don't Work and What to Do About It	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Good book but too long	I haven't try any of these techniques because I'm totally broke, so I can't tell you that it's REALLY good.  But I do give it three stars because it provided some interesting insight I have never thought about like the difference between commodity and product or how colors and shapes influence sales.  But there was a suggestion about touching your costumers to increase sales.  Do I smell sexual-harassment lawsuits?<br />This book bascially has three messages.  1) You must be balanced: 33% Entrepeneur, 33% Manager, 33% Technician (Most people are primarily Technicians and there lies the fault) 2) You must have an impeccable business model worthy of being franchised.  This model focuses on the business as being the product, not what you are selling.  The author provides a plan to create such a model.  3) Always lift the curtain!  (The curtain being your comfort zone)<br />I gave it only three stars because it was longer than it should be.  There is this ridiculous example given throughout the book with some lady starting a pie business.  And then a mini-autobiography of the author (glorifying himself to some extent) halfway in the book.  To top it off, a really cheesy letter written to the pie lady took up one entire chapter! (Telling her to lift her curtain!)  The letter is scary to say the least.  Absurdly long-winded...such a letter written by a person who is sad and pathetic...a letter if sent over email would have the recepient pressing her delete button several times over.  The author is confused with the genre of book he wants to write.  This belongs in the entrepeneurship/self-help/fiction/spiritual genre if there's such a thing.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R28JFY9P1GG8FP	0553569155	799625292	Seinlanguage	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Get the DVD	I am a Seinfeld fan but I do not find the jokes in the book funny.  And you know why?  Because what makes it really funny is the delivery!  I rent out the DVD of his Broadway farewell performance and he was delivering the same jokes in the book and they were insanely hysterical!  Stand-up is meant to be heard not read.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R344152YYGCEFF	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	1	23	31	N	N	Save your money	This book is the author's poor attempt to make a fast buck riding from his previous bestseller, &quot;Unlimited Power&quot;.  If you must find out what this is all about, get &quot;Unlimited Power&quot; instead - very similar bs but better or EVEN better, search for books on NLP.  If you want a real self-help book, get &quot;The Power of Your Unconscious Mind&quot;.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R1FBGURVZEYU0M	0806979100	6496743	Pro-Style Bodybuilding	Books	2	2	13	N	N	This book is outdated	The school of bodybuilding this book teaches is very outdated.  Save your money!  Don't buy this book.  I was following the instructions in this book and I gained thirty pounds...in fat!  That's right, it tells you to eat anything.  You heard me, ANYTHING.  In the old school way, the bodybuilder eats whatever he wants to gain mass and later on sheds off the fat through aerobic exercise.  The problem with that is, during the rigorous aerobic training, much muscle mass is also lost with it.  The new way of bodybuilding (which makes alot of sense) stresses to eat alot and eat LEAN while you train.  It does offer some great exercises but nothing you can't get from other good weight training books.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R1702YW96D89WB	0809234475	937465377	Tennis Strokes that Win	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The only tennis book you need	This is by far the best instructional tennis book I ever read, and believe me, as a tennis nut who breathes tennis, I've read almost all of them.  It is only 123 pages, but this is true testimony that good, quality books need not be long.  I've read some tennis books that are huge manuals with pages of worthless frame-by-frame pictures.  The beauty of this book is it's simple.  I think everyone will appreciate that.  And it need not lots of pictures to tell you how to truly play the game.  I am an intermediate tennis player and I find the information to be very helpful and it is so simple, beginners will really learn from it, too.  If you are a beginner, don't waste your money on tennis lessons, videos, or other books.  You ONLY need this book.  If you are an avid tennis fan, get this book and a subscription to Tennis Magazine to keep up with the news.  Tennis is soooo simple after you read this book, don't let anyone tell you otherwise!	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R300HX3A4Z0W6M	193011012X	24551126	Web Development with JavaServer Pages	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent Java Book	This is a very well-written book on programming.  I say programming in general because programmers can't write, they only program!  But this book is so well-written I could not put it down.  You can develop big sophisticated applications with this book.  It not only teaches about the language, but a core understanding of how it works...more than a programmer needs to know, but the more knowledge, the merrier.  I am also impressed with the cleanliness and simplicity of the code.  I highly recommend it.	2002-11-10
US	39749854	R3NEKABVD2MA0I	1878424424	426475307	The Mastery of Love: A Practical Guide to the Art of Relationship: A Toltec Wisdom Book	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Bottom Line: Love Yourself	I have just summarized the whole book with the title above.  Why should you get this book if that is all it has to say?  Well, some people don't know this!  I didn't.  My whole life, I was searching for love, but as Whitney Houston said, &quot;...Learning to love yourself, it is the greatest love of all...&quot;  And that is what this book is about.  It gives some really interesting analogies and just makes some really enjoyable reading.  I know because I read and ate it in only a few hours.  It seems like pretty common sense to me now, though.  How can you possibly love someone when you don't love yourself?  Another point in the book I treasure is how it describes a relationship as a sharing between two people, not a union, not two hearts becoming one.  Those kind of analogies only lead to tremendous pain in the future when the relationship turns sour.  If we visualize a relationship as two people sharing their life, if that person leaves us one day, he or she can be replaced whereas anything that is part of you cannot be replaced.  I must say, this book has dramatically changed my life.  I used to feel lonely all the time and now, even when I'm alone, I feel great!	2002-11-05
US	39749854	R1YYWILI3X9DM7	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Pure Genius!	I am convinced that whoever came up with the four agreements is a genius.  At first, I was so highly skeptical how four rules can remove misery from our lives.  But guess what?  Every problem I can think of that I'm having or had in the past deals with one, some, or all of these rules.  Unbelieveable!  Let me give you an example.  I was so in love with this girl, but I didn't really had the guts to tell her how I really felt and so one day, I lost her...she got married!  How did this happen?  Agreement #1, be impeccable with your word: I didn't tell her how I really felt and so I lost her.  Agreement #2, don't take anything personally: I took it really personally when she told me her decision.  I don't think I got over it for months until I read this book.  Agreement #3, don't make assumptions: I thought I was giving her enough signs to let her know already, so I don't really have to tell her.  Boy, was I wrong.  Agreement #4, always do your best: I guess I can't possibly be doing my best if I'm not even following the first three agreements!  Anyway, this is good stuff and all you ever need to live a beautiful life: be honest, don't be too serious, communicate clearly, and just do your best and not have any regrets.  Good luck!	2002-11-05
US	39749854	RVCMHZUQLES5Z	0874779472	330138680	Deep Writing: 7 Principles That Bring Ideas to Life	Books	3	4	16	N	N	Some good insight	Before I read this book, I used to be so easily suckered into buying certain non-fiction books that promise you the world.  Now I know that the title is very misleading.  Most often it is a hyperbole to entice you to buy the book with the first chapter hyping you on.  I also learned that authors don't really make alot of money writing.  There are other interesting facts, but in terms of how to write better, it doesn't really offer much.	2002-11-05
US	39749854	R3DCBVVWMDQGN4	0966394003	371709468	The Guide: The Essential Resource Book For Picking Up Girls	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Good book, Good Price	This is a pretty good book for it's price.  Please be advised that it is very specific and it is only on picking up chicks.  After you get her number or whatever, what are you going to do?  Good luck, this book doesn't tell you!  I must say, I followed the advice in this book very religiously and it works like a charm.  It is so easy to get numbers, but guess what?  Most of the time, the girl is just being courteous or don't have the heart to tell you the truth.  Only 1% of the numbers turn out to be dates.  And I still have no clue on what to do during the date because I have yet to find a good book on that topic!  The book doesn't cost that much, but if you want to save a few bucks, here is the secret to picking up chicks.  Ready?  (Drumroll)....confidence.  One of the points the book makes is that the idea of girls liking jerks is partially true.  The fact is, most of the nice guys are weak and not confident enough, that is why they lose out.  In case you don't know, girls do like jerks because most jerks are also very attractive guys.  But if you act tough and confident, you have a better chance.  The other thing the book says is when girls say they want someone more mature, they really mean someone more confident.  Once again, it is all about confidence.  For those who do not know what this is, it is doing something based on your own free will without any validation from anyone.  It is sticking to and hanging to your own judgement when the whole world seems to be against you.  I've lost a really special girl because I did not understand this.	2002-11-05
US	39749854	RLZJBOU0H3WAI	0553583182	844455366	The Power of Your Subconscious Mind	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Very inspirational	When I first saw this book, I was very skeptical.  The title sounds like a cheap informercial.  After reading it half-way, I knew I have picked up something special.  I should actually thank my friend who recommended it to me.  This is the BEST BOOK I have ever read.  No, dreams do not come true by only dreaming about it.  Action is required.  But it is dreams that ignite that fire in all of us.  Whether or not the subconscious is real or not, who knows.  But I choose to believe it because it is very empowering.  Belief is empowering.  That is why religion works.  Basically this book is about believing.  When you have this problem and you just can't think of the solution and then one day, it just comes to you.  Or when you take this pill and you feel better but it is really candy (placebo effect).  Whether the subconscious is responsible for this (according to the book) or God or whatever you believe in, the only thing that matters is simply to believe!	2002-11-05
US	39749854	R3EILQNT5Y9SEZ	0471177504	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way: Investment Strategies of the World's Greatest Investor	Books	3	18	20	N	N	This book is not for beginners	I was reading some of the reviews here and I was surprised that some people say this book is great for beginners.  Well, I'm a beginner in investing and I was just totally lost on some of the concepts preached in this book.  Concepts like \\"Owner's Earnings\\" is alittle new to me.  Although the book explained this is net income plus amortization/depreciation minus capital expenditures, I thought it could elaborate just what all these terms are.  But it doesn't.  It doesn't even clearly explain the reason for this formula.  Definitely not beginner stuff.  I think everyone should read this book because it does teach some solid investing principles.  Advice that I believe really makes sense.  But I was just going nuts at the vagueries in this book.  Probably one of the most important points is \\"how to value a company\\".  But it just runs through the calculations like it was some easy arithmetic problem.  I must have read those portions ten times and still couldn't figure it out.  I was relieved to find some examples in the appendix.  Goodie!  Wrong.  That was just as hard to follow...no step by step explanation.  But I managed to figure it out.  For anyone who might be wondering what the heck is a discount factor (which nowhere in the book mentioned, but is required for the calculations), here is the formula 1/(1+r)^t where r is the discount rate and t is the Nth year.  I found this on the internet!  Lastly, someone made a comment about Hagstrom writing this book to promote his own mutual fund.  I don't see anything wrong with that.  I think that is great.  Now there is proof for all to see if this book really works.  As of now, it only gives you a 5-year annualized growth of 3.52%.  S&P 500 is 3.16%, FYI!  So the fund is not so hot.  I only brought this up because Hagstrom never interviewed Buffet for this book (Says so in the preface).  His take on the Buffet Way is anyone's good research in the Bershire Hathaway annual reports.  Noone will probably know how to trade like Warren Buffet but Warren Buffet himself!  That makes sense because after all, if I know how to make money in stocks to become the second richest man, would I want to tell you?ke Warren Buffet but Warren Buffet himself!  That makes sense because after all, if I know how to make money in stocks to become the second richest man, would I want to tell you?	2002-10-30
US	39749854	R34YYHZ0GFXTB0	0060192313	128551353	Wisdom of the Ages: 60 Days to Enlightenment	Books	3	3	14	N	N	Otay book	I go back to this book from time to time because of the way it names its chapters.  For instance, my girlfriend just broke up with me and I'm so angry I never want to speak to her again - I would go to the chapter &quot;Forgiveness&quot; and it really helps to calm me down.  Some bad points are the poems; do people really understand them?  I don't!  I just jump right to the discussion part.  The summary at the end of each chapter don't really summarize the chapter and sometimes adds new thoughts from the author!  I am also not satisfied with the spiritual or god explanation because I'm not religious.  For anyone thinking of buying this book, definitely get the hard cover, I did, and happily, I was able to remove the cheesy cover and have just a nice plain blue cover.	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R1UOSXCDH5QID2	0684845776	92755284	Unlimited Power : The New Science Of Personal Achievement	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Very vague	This book is a really long book for a self-help book.  I am in immediate need of help and I have to read 400 pages?  Is it worth the read?  Not.  Is it inspirational?  Slightly.  It is a very vague book on NLP popularized by Bandler and Grinder.  You are better off searching for books by these guys.  For even better stuff, search for book under Milton Erickson, the father of hypnosis whom Bandler and Grinder studied under.  Why am I telling you all this?  Well, this book is basically on human psychology.  To understand yourself and others, this is the topic to study and what this book preaches, but very vaguely.  Robbins has become a very wealthy man because of other people's work which once again proved you don't have to invent or build a better mouse trap.  You only need to market it well.	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R34JUSRPPFX3LA	0425168662	244110961	Think Big: A Think Collection	Books	2	6	23	N	N	OK but not great	There are lots of little wise sayings in this book.  Some are great, some not so great.  For instance, \\"We attract those we feel we are worthy to be with\\".  Nonsense.  My whole ... life, I only attract gurlz I despise.  How bout this one, \\"The only thing we 'have to' is we have to die when the time comes and we have to live until the day we die\\".  Very inspirational, I guess.  But I require something more full-proof to totally believe in it.  We HAVE TO pay taxes.  We HAVE TO eat, therefore we HAVE TO work.  I read many self-help books because I need alot of help, personally, and this was by far the worst one.  What does the author hope to accomplish by giving us a bunch of quotes.  We will never remember all of them.  The only way to remember each one is if there is a story attached to each of them.  That is why I recommend Wayne Dyer's Wisdom of the Ages if you want something more meaningful.  Again, not everything in that book will be accepted by everyone, but at least you will be able to remember the ones you do treasure.	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R1QUZ4GIARBOSU	188207193X	874926478	How to Make Anyone Fall in Love With You	Books	1	130	153	N	N	Good book, but didn't work for me	When I first read this book, I was like \\"Wow!\\"  And you will probably say the same thing because it uses science and psychology to back its claims.  But I tried these techniques at happy hours and mix-n-mingles and singles bars, and still...no luck.  I think in real life, girls are smarter than to fall for these tricks.  Maybe I give them too much credit or maybe I shouldn't give myself any credit, but either way, I tried these techniques and they didn't work.  The other thing you should know is some of these techniques are very manipulative.  For instance, there is a chapter on how to act and talk like the rich in order to get the rich.  That is so phoney and you wonder why the world is so fake - it's because of books like this one.  Save your money, and just be yourself (which this book doesn't preach).  Maybe I'm not a ladies man and maybe I'm no \\"relationships\\" expert, but I do know this, and that is, you will feel much better if someone loves you for who you are, not someone you pretend to be.	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R2XO57R0G9ZZW7	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	3	0	0	N	N	More self-help than personal finance	This is a good book for everyday people like us.  The reading is very light and easy so you don't need to be a math wizard to understand it and you will read it in a flash, which is always a good thing.  You will gain some good common \\"cents\\" on what to do with your money.  The key point is to use your money to buy assets as opposed to liabilities.  An asset is something that puts money in your pocket.  A liability takes money away from your pocket.  According to the book, if you can get only this point after reading the book, you are light years ahead of everyone else.  But the book does not go into details on how you can amass these assets.  It is more a self-help book than a personal finance book.  Each chapter is very inspirational and contains stories of financial conquests by the author.  Personally, I find that to be annoying after a while because I hate people that brag.  The author claims he is not bragging but is trying to inspire you.  This is similar to someone telling you, \\"Please don't take this personally, but you are a....\\"	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R26MSNILHNNSVN	0735200300	693143636	How to Succeed with Women	Books	1	7	11	N	Y	I've used all the techiques taught in this book	I've used all the techiques taught in this book and I'm still masturbating.  I don't know if it's me or the book but I let you decide.  Although it didn't help me get a chick, it did boost my self-esteem up a bit.  I'm feeling more confident about myself now.  So this is actually a good self-help book.  Probably the most important thing I learned from this book is to not seek validation from anyone but yourself.  I used to seek all my validation from being able to find this really hot chick which I never ever did and so I feel [bad] all the time.  But now I know it's no big deal...but my hand is getting tired.	2002-10-12
US	39749854	R2I8HI74E4KFGH	0743228626	352070552	F'd Companies: Spectacular Dot-com Flameouts	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Easy Reading But Get Tiresome After Awhile	I just read this book in about 3-4 hours so it is very easy reading since the vocabulary is very elementary.  Also the text is pretty big and there is alot of white...even more than a screenplay.  I gave it two stars because some of the humor is funny but more from the stupidity behind the idea of the dot-com than from the author.  It is also a good summary of some of the failed ideas of the Internet Bubble and the author does provide some good ideas on why they failed.  But it stops here.  There are not enough facts and figures to explain why they really failed since this book is mostly fabricated from his website in which its content is very subjective and far from factual.  Alot more research would have to be conducted to make this a better case study book.  How can a critic say this book will be read by future business students?  Just because an idea didn't work out does that make it a bad idea or perhaps some other piece is at fault?  For instance, bid.com and clickabid.com were auction sites that failed, but ebay is still in business - why is that?  Also, the author's cynicism and attempts at humor get really tiresome half-way through the book.  Kaplan makes fun at most of the dot-coms by saying that they didn't care what they were doing as long they can cash-out early, but he is guilty of the same thing with his attempt at this book.	2002-10-11
US	39749854	R3UYHKKTCWNI6B	0345440137	997999410	I'm the One That I Want	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not Enough Information	I give it two stars because the writing is pretty good.  But I didn't think it contained enough information.  As a stand-up comedian myself, I like to know how I can maximize my chances of getting my big break like the author did.  But no mention of that.  It just seems suddenly she is this popular comedian that the whole neighborhood knows and that's it.  For people who enjoy reading fiction, this book is for you.  Some of the tales are just totally off the wall I question the credibility of the author.  Well, I'm a non-fiction reader and basically there are two key points you should get from this book: 1) Know what you want in life, not what others want 2) Love yourself, because noone else will unless you do first.	2002-10-11
US	39749854	REYS87D5H9BJE	0786883448	982634222	Good Will Hunting: A Screenplay	Books	2	0	17	N	Y	OK Script	I didn't think this was that great.  I read this in one night and I was not impressed at all.	2002-10-11
US	39749854	RG6CE50889B7S	0312968574	81010792	Matt Damon	Books	1	0	1	N	Y	Not Enough Information	I bought this book for the sole purpose of learning what I can do as an actor to mimic Damon's success and what does this book tell me?  Absolutely nothing.	2002-10-11
