US	39773708	R2T23D51D63X90	0824819691	101604590	Tsunami!: Second Edition (Latitude 20 Books (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very good book about the Pacific tsunami hazard	The recent cataclysm in Southeast Asia points up a problem about which Pacific Ocean residents have long known; tsunamis or \\"tidal waves\\".  This book is written by Dr. Walter Dudley, one of the chief experts on tsunamis, and on how to detect them, and protect against them. <br /> <br />The book is well-organized, highly readable for professional and lay persons alike, and is a valuable contribution to literature on this most important subject. The diagrams readily follow the text and greatly augment its understanding.  The photographs are interesting, but average.  However, tsunamis are not a subject in which photographs aid understanding to any real degree. <br /> <br />Dr. Dudley carefully examines the various causes of this phenomenon, including meteor strikes and landslides, matters which have only recently come to the attention of science.  He explains the physics of the tsunami with a merciful absence of complex mathematical equations. <br /> <br />Considerable attention is devoted to the creation and development of the Pacific Tsunami Warning System, with specific reference being made to mistakes and corrections follwing each event.  A very fine summary of each damaging Pacific tsunami over the last half of the 20th Century gives a excellent portrayal of the ever-present danger from such spasms of nature.  <br /> <br />Looking to the future, Dr. Dudley urges continued education and refinement of the Warning System as the best way to avoid enormous human disaster from these waves.  It is ironic that he counsels warning systems should be in place all over the world, since any large body of water is subject to such disturbances. <br /> <br />Since both our mainland coasts are subject to tsunamis, I think this book is must reading for anyone with coastal property, particularly for folks in Washington, Oregon, and California.  Tsunamis cannot be stopped, but while property can be replaced, human life cannot.  This book will help save yours by showing the dimensionand frequency of the hazard, and what to do when a tsunami is imminent. <br /> <br />I recommend this book very, very highly.	2005-02-11
US	39773708	R1WTS1TW79QMQC	0752261622	471763662	Extinct	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A very good book on Holocene extinctions	This book explains the nature and causes of post-Ice Age (Holocene) extinctions by focusing on six now-vanished creatures. <br />Based on a British television series, the authors examine the cases of the Columbian Mammoth, the saber-toothed cat, the Irish Elk, (all earlier than 500 B.C.) ,the dodo, (1700s), the Great Auk (1844) and the thylacine, (Tasmanian Tiger (1936).  It is readily apparent that the hand of man and his actions is strongly implicated in the last three extinctions, and probably the firsr three, as well.  However, the roles of changing climate, impact of exotic creatures, changing habitat, food supply, and other factors are also addressed.  The book is delightfully impartial, presenting facts, and letting the reader draw his or her own conclusions from them. <br /> <br />The text is well-written and easily understood.  The photographs and re-creations of tha animals' appearances are truly remarkable and form a high point of the book.  Interesting inserts explain the computer animation and research behind such efforts. <br /> <br />The role of the extinction process has always been of interest to me, and I feel this one of the better books on the topic.  I would recommend it highly to all readers.  Even children will be fascinated by the stories and pictures.	2004-11-30
US	39773708	R3LG681GH9YEHZ	1559706678	60910947	Thermageddon: Countdown to 2030	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Very disappointing; deceptive title	I purchased this book at a close-out sale, and I guess it was worth a buck, but not more.     From the title and the blurbs, I expected to receive a rather strongly advocative report on global warming.  Instead, I got a poorly written, poorly organized ecological diatribe, marked by extensive use of the words \\"could\\", \\"possibly\\", and \\"might\\", among others.  The author wastes a good deal of time and energy, (the reader's), by wandering away from his appointed task to reminisce about his Greenpeace days, the relevance of which is marginal at best.    As to the author's apocalyptic forecasts, the proffered supporting \\"evidence\\" is largely in the nature of a self-drafted, unsubstantiated polemic on the evils of industrial civilization.  In short, the author fails to make his case.    Lest it be misunderstood, the evidence of global warming is all about us.  The material was avilable for a scholarly, even admirable text on the role people could play in ameliorating this condition.  Regrettably, as is the case with so many zealots, the author eschews this chance, and further degrades the already tainted reputation of persons legitimately concerned with this ecological menace.  As the credibility of such people wanes, so the power of ignorant anti-environmentalists like Bush and Cheney grows.     Why folks like Hunter can't see this is beyond me, but I wish they would stifle themselves and reflect carefully before they write.  I guess money talks for such writers the same as it does for others.  Not recommmended, even as a loaner.  Don't waste your time.	2004-11-30
US	39773708	R2CDETDIPF7PPU	0198540337	91682396	Volcanoes: A Planetary Perspective	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A marvelous work on volcanology.	This reaches the high end of trade works on the subject, and I suggest that some exposure to the sciences, particulary physical geology, is probably appropriate before tackling this book.  Having so stated, I believe this is one of the best books I have ever read on volcanoes.     The author is a person of considerable dry wit and humour, and has achieved a masterpiece by making the subject readily understandable through excellent draftsmanship.  The photographs closely follow the text, and are unusually helpful.    I was particularly impressed by the fine work on the emerging science of pyroclastic flows; that most dangerous of volcanic phenomena.  Notwithstanding the fact that this book is some 7 years old, the text is remarkably current, and a must for anyone interested in pyroclastic flows and their perils.     Although the author indicates otherwise in his preface, I really believe this book would be very useful as a collegiate text on the subject of volcanology.  Obiously, I recommend the book very highly to all.	2004-11-30
US	39773708	R145ZLUTFWU5B2	1400046297	512367795	Sierra Club 2005 Engagement Calendar	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Another splendid edition	This calendar's purchase and examination is always a pleasurable event, and I have saved them for some 20 years.  The 2005 edition measures up well.  There appears to be a bit more emphasis on close-up photography in this year's edition, but the subjects chosen are very beautiful and some of the finest photography anywhere, I daresay.  Another splendid work.  Bravo!!!!	2004-11-30
US	39773708	R2PWURQPMWMMAB	0713486813	392811214	Exodus to Arthur: Catastrophic Encounters with Comets	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Interesting reading, but with some flaws	Let's hit the good things first.  The author is a person of undoubted scholarship, reputation, and industry.  He specializes in dendrochronology, the science of analyzing tree rings to ascertain the past.   By doing so, Dr. Baillie has uncovered several patterns of altered climate within the past six millenia, the last about 536 A.D.  That these events were catastrophic seems beyond argument.  <br /> <br />Dr. Baillie's discusssion of the science of dendrochronology is extremely informative, as are the conclusions of the physical events that he draws from his work.  This much of the book is must reading for anyone interested in paleoarchaeology, as well as more recent events. <br /> <br />I must admit, however, that I am somewhat put off by any attempt to link enormously ambiguous ancient writing with real events, let alone attempts to engraft specific conclusions onto these ambiguities.  To his credit, Dr. Baillie largely holds his conclusions somewhat in check, but, even so, portion of the book end up by paraphrasing such discredited \\"experts\\" as von Daniken and Velikovsky.  It may be that some ancient writings do reflect cosmic accidents, but I am extemely skeptical that most of them do. <br /> <br />Dr. Baillie wholly ignores the undisputed fact that a stupendous volcanic eruption occurred at Rabaul in A.D. 536, and that the even larger Crater Lake and Kikai caldera-forming eruptions occured in centuries immediately preceding 4000 B.C.  Yet these events would as equally well, if not better, explain the tree ring anamolies Dr. Baillie has found.  Certainly, the timing of these events, particularly Rabaul,  is right on the mark.  Other timely volcanic events also exist.  As a consequence, the book seems to have reached its conclusions without all the facts being analyzed. <br /> <br />This reviewer is also skeptical of the much-publicized Clube-Napier analysis that Earth is frequently hit by large damaging meteor storms, an analysis borrowed by Dr. Bailey in support of his conclusions.  No sedimentary or other kindred analysis has ever been offered to support these speculations, espcially the hypothesis that the Irish Sea was struck by a comet in A.D. 540. <br /> <br />Dr/ Baillie's conclusions are certainly PLAUSIBLE, but are they  supported with sufficient evidence, apart from ambiguous tree ring discoveries, to attain the status of a testable theory?  This writer believes not, and therefore, Dr. Baillie has not made his case, in my view. <br /> <br />Dr. Baillie's text is eminently understandable to anyone with a limited scientific background.  However, the smallness of the print makes for difficult reading. <br /> <br />Based on these considerations, I give the book three stars, and recommend it in accordance with the preceding caveats.	2004-11-30
US	39773708	R362XATBFQCGV	0890512582	521961568	Refuting Evolution: A Handbook for Students, Parents, and Teachers Countering the Latest Arguments for Evolution	Books	1	33	53	N	N	The "dumbing down" continues.	We lament the \\"dumbing down of America\\", yet books like this one, with conclusions reached in advance of writing and research, deceptive \\"citations\\" of authority, syllogistic reasoning, and outright lies contained therein, continue to sell like hotcakes.  All of this proves little more than that Darwin was probably right.  Many men are DESCENDED from the higher apes.	2004-11-05
US	39773708	R3UEP6QNRK7QGX	0520237315	884148645	Beasts of Eden: Walking Whales, Dawn Horses, and Other Enigmas of Mammal Evolution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A crackling good book on the history of science	This book uses as its centerpiece the epic mural by Rudolf Zallinger, in Yale's Peabody Museum, depicting the progress of the Cenozoic Era,(the Age of Mammals), from its beginning until today.  The mural is sweeping in scope, cleverly dividing the epochs by use of strategically placed trees. It simultaneously shows the geology of each epoch as well as its dominant forms of life.  The mural is essentially contained in the now obsolete Time-Life hardcover book entitled \\"The World We live In\\". <br /> <br />After introducing the mural and its creator, author Wallace gives a detailed history of the progress of the scientific discipine of fossil mammal studies.  Personal sketches of the many leaders in this still emerging field of science are seamlessly woven into the text.  The well-written, well researched narrative rolls along effortlessly for the reader, who is left with a much clearer understanding of how paleontologists are able to decipher the appearance of these magnificent, long-gone animals, and the surroundings in which they lived. <br /> <br />The subtitle of the book is slightly deceptive, for it is not the animals themselves, but the persons who studied them, that is the chief focus of the treatise, but this is mere quibbling.  In order to understand the scientific findings that have been made in a proper fashion, it is important to study the persons and methods used to make them.  \\"Beasts\\" is a one-of-a-kind book in this respect. <br /> <br />To be sure, the book contains many facts about the creatures of the Cenozoic that cannot be found in other trade books.  An extensive bibliography is also supplied for the interested reader who wishes to further pursue particular topics. <br /> <br />I do wish that the book showed the entire Zallinger mural in color.  The only part of the mural that is so treated is on the dust jacket.  The book would have been much easier to understand in the early stages had this been done.  The black and white excerpts from the mural, as contained in the text, are pitifully poor substitutes for the real thing. <br /> <br />Even so, this book receives a five-star accolade, because of the depth of its fascinating text, and because of its quality draftsmanship.  I recommend it very highly to students of any science as showing how science advances.  Students of geology and paleontology will be particularly well-served by reading and digesting this work and its contents.	2004-10-29
US	39773708	R1DAIZOSHSWCYO	0743489063	798446261	The Day After Tomorrow	Books	1	17	28	N	N	Simply dreadful drivel	Whitney Streiber, one of the chief instruments in dumbing down America, has outdone himself here.  Streiber has no knowledge of physics or other sciences, but cares not a whit.  In this extremely poorly written (lack of) effort, Streiber purports to describe a climatic calamity on the order of the recently lamented movie.  It is amateurishly written, marked by no real single plot, and absolutely worthless as either literature or science.  But people will probably buy it and buy into it, while books by real scientists, such as Richard B Alley, gather dust on bookstore shelves.  Barnum was right. I weep for the future.<br /><br />I wouldn't even rate this book in terms of stars unless negative values could be used.  Don't bother.	2004-10-28
US	39773708	R3P79E8NEWEULA	1575580276	873546017	God's Final Warning to America	Books	1	15	45	N	N	Why do people believe this glop?	A friend of mine loaned me this book.  Thank God, (and, yes, there is one), I didn't expend money to buy it.<br /><br />As noted, the author is an evangelist.  He has no familiarity with the principles of logic or physical science that I can discern.<br /><br />OF COURSE, there are going to be more weather-related disasters in America than was so in times past, FOR THE SIMPLE REASON THAT THE COUNTRY IS BECOMING MORE CROWDED.  The tornado that chews up a subdivision today would have swirled the grass in an empty field just a few years ago, for example.  Does this mean God hates us?  Hardly, except to folks like McTiernan, perhaps.<br /><br />This sort of writing dumbs down America in my opinion, and I certainly could not possibly recommend to any intelligent reader.	2004-10-14
US	39773708	R2SOF0AKIPHUJJ	0812910796	744249194	Making of a Continent	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Probably the best geology book for lay persons	Ron Redfern is a superb writer and peerless photo editor.  This book is surely the capstone of his career to date.  <br /> <br />Although the subject matter examined is broad and complicated, the book is very well organized and seamlessly drafted.  With the exception of a few typographical errors, the information presented is highly accurate.  The genius of the work lies in the fact that, despite having to examine complex problems in geology, the author so deftly explains these matters that the reader is never left confused or at a loss.  <br /> <br />As to the magnificent color photographs, both large and small, each follows the text closely, and each is accomapnied by an explanatory, locational note.  The beauty of many of the pictures is breathtaking.  Additionally, accompanying diagrams are thoughtful and informative. <br /> <br />Redfern's masterpiece covers the history and nature of the North American tectonic plate.  It is a virtual textbook of plate tectonics.  Discussion is divided into several chapters covering the origin of the plate, its relation to other plates, especially the Baltic and African plates, and then into sections describing each part of the plate.  Chapters include as subjects such varied areas as the Mississippi delta, the Canadian Shield, the Colorado Plateau, and the Appalachians.  You will be endlessly fascinated by the marvelous photos and detailed text, and it seems something new is learned upon each rereading of the book <br /> <br />The book is small coffee-table in size, and would form a proud display in anyone's home.  I cannot recommend this book highly enough for lay persons interested in geology, and the book is highly useful for professional and academics in the field of geology, as well.  If you want to enjoy reading and learning about the forces that make our marvelous planet operate, this is the book to get.  Have fun!	2004-09-30
US	39773708	RDPVKKTD1PLXW	0310241448	911984495	The Case for a Creator: A Journalist Investigates Scientific Evidence That Points Toward God	Books	1	40	84	N	N	Oh, for God's Sake!	Books of this genre simply prove the age-old adage that if you want to believe something is so strongly enough, you can  convince yourself of its existence.  The book's premise is pseudo-scientific, but its true underpinning is faith in the intangible, standing alone.  Such, of course, is a mere outgrowth of the human tendency to explain the inexplicable by an easy recourse to the Divine, rather than do hard thinking and research.  <br /> <br />Now, please note carefully, I am not saying there is no God, but I am saying this author hasn't proven it by scientific means, as he endeavors to have you believe.  And it's not for lack of effort.  What people like the author do not realize is that matters of pure faith are beyond proof by scientific means.  The inevitable result is a laborious effort leading to a glimpse into the obvious, i.e., that the author believes in a Creator, nothing more. <br /> <br />There are a thousand books of this same type, and this one is just a different wrinkle on the same pattern of cloth.  If you think that by reading this book you will unlock the secrets of the ages, you are in for a severe disappointment.  Don't waste your money.	2004-08-23
US	39773708	RHP2OCC3L9854	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	5	31	34	N	N	A most significant book for our time	I usually view &quot;current history&quot; books with a high degree of skepticism, since, many times, the writer frequently indulges in polemics rather than reasoned analysis seasoned by time. This book is the exception. Author Phillips is a highly renowned political observer, whose attention to detail, hard work, and objectivity are beyond reproach. Phillips has worked on many Republican campaigns and his book about the &quot;Emerging majority&quot; in the 70's is a standard in books of its genre. Political preferences are not the issue here. <br />  <br /> Although the book documents the ascent of the Bush family in American governmental circles in the first part of the 20th Century, the gist of the book is concerned with the rise of George Walker Bush, (Bush II), to the Presidency in the last part of that era, and in the first part of this century. It is not a narrative that should sit well with freedom-loving Americans. Indeed, any reader of this book should have great concern for America's future after finishing this well-written, carefully organized, easily readable text. <br />  <br /> Phillips' essential contention is that, with the election of Bush II, we have traveled far down the slippery path to a quasi-monarchical form of government, where the election of leaders has become a hollow sham, directed by such things as family ancestry, large corporate and governmental entities directing the vote, and a lazy, disinclined electorate being led like sheep to the selection of leaders who have an elitist, even dishonest, contempt for the country's welfare at large. Careful pains are taken to show that this concern addresses not only Republicans, but Democrats, as per Hillary Clinton's status as a potential nominee in 2008, despite her demonstrated lack of credentials other than family affiliation. <br />  <br /> In the case of Bush II, however, matters become even more serious, given this President's vigorous attempts to stifle personal liberty, his attachments to religious extremists and ideologies, his ties to energy, military, intelligence, and religious combines whose wishes and views he bows to with obeisance, his demonstrated penchant for secrecy and deceit, and his eagerness to involve this nation in wars and unilateral foreign policy initiatives against its wishes. It is a frightening picture, to say the least. <br />  <br /> The very real danger, per Phillips, is whether we can honor Benjamin Franklin's admonition that the Constitution gave Americans a republic, &quot;..if you can keep it.&quot; The answer is not encouraging, given recent events. <br />  <br /> But read the book for yourself, don't take another's word for it. We have been doing that far too long already.  <br />  <br /> My recommendation of this intensely thought-provoking work is off the scale. Every American should give very careful thought to Mr. Phillips' observations before voting this fall.	2004-08-03
US	39773708	R22N84DXSCOX5R	0785335579	590760277	Medical book of remedies: 50 ways to manage diabetes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A  very good guide to living with diabetes.	Within the past month, I was diagnosed with early-stage type 2 diabetes.  I received a prescription for Glucophage, and some dietary tips, and a blood sugar testing kit.  Naturally, I wanted to know a lot more than that, so I talked with some friends who have diabetes, etc., and got a welter of conflicting advice.  So, on the advice of a medical professional in the field, I got this book.  WAS IT WORTH IT!!!<br />Under fifty separate headings, (hence the title), the book explores various facets of diabetes, how it affects one's life, and how to change one's lifestyle so as to cope with the condition at a minimal level of difficulty.  Each section is jam-packed with facts and solid advice about the topic heading, and each is well-organized and easily readable.  The book is not highly technical, and is within the grasp of anyone with ordinary reading skills.  Most importantly, the book doesn't coddle or mislead the reader with a lot of Wayne Dyer- feel good baloney, but honestly and bluntly gives the reader a fair idea of what is being faced.<br />Since being diagnosed, I have lost 7 of the 60 pounds prescribed, changed my dietary habits considerably, and gotten back some of the energy I thought I had lost forever.  Life is more full, and I look forward again to the future.  I truly believe that this book was very material in achieving these things.  <br />This book is highly recommended to any diabetic, recently diagnosed, or otherwise.  It has helped change my life for the better, and I feel it can do the same for others.	2004-07-10
US	39773708	R37TCUVF83TLQA	0816025568	699164281	Wetlands	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best book on the subject, period	This book is just simply superlative in every respect, bar none. It comprises a survey of the world's wetlands, continent by continent, following a comprehensive introductory section. You will surely read about wetlands areas of which you have never been aware.  You will see pictures of them that will simply amaze you by their beauty and form.  Each chapter contains vignettes on that area's most important wetlands, as well as a detailed map of each continent and its wetlands.  The written text is excellently organized and easily readable.<br />Depending on the reader's preference, however, the most attractive feature of the book may be its incomparable color photography.  Some of it is so compelling as to present an almost surreal effect.  A good example is the cover photograph of the baobab tree, standing like a huge bottle over lily pads in an African pond. <br />Each chapter, as well as the book's conclusion shows the harm that is being done to wetlands, and the consequences that follow such activity.  This is a must read part of the text. <br />In summation, the book is endlessly fascinating.  I received it as a Christmas present a few years ago, and I have enjoyed it endlessly since that time.  I am sure this experience will apply to any person of a high school education with an interest in nature.<br />My recommendation is so high as to be off the scale.	2004-07-08
US	39773708	RHIAZWBYEUM04	0962850578	426142456	Death Valley and the Northern Mojave: A Visitor's Guide	Books	5	16	17	N	N	An exemplary guide to an unfamiliar place	This is a most worthy companion to the visitor's guide to CALIFORNIA'S EASTERN SIERRA, previously reviewed by this writer. Written in the same clear, direct, organized style, and similarly divided into sectional analyses of various attractions and history, this guide also has the same outstanding color photography. <br />It is difficult to sufficiently praise the clear travel directions given to find each discussed attraction. Not only directions, but anticipated road conditions, are set forth at the conclusion of the section addressing each feature.<br />As you will discern, Death Valley should have been made a National Park a long time ago.  It is the hottest, driest, and lowest place in North America.  It has recent volcanoes, enormous sand dunes, totally indigenous wildlife, great mineral deposits, a playa where the stones move about from unknown forces (called the Recetrack), marvelously beautiful rock formations and salt flats, and even a castle.  Each is discussed in riveting detail that beckons the reader to come there.<br />You will also read about the history of Death Valley, including marooned pioneers, borax mining and the twenty-mule-team methods of transporting out the borax, old ghost towns, etc, etc.  Each section is endlessly fascinating.<br />The book also takes the reader to many facinating areas outside Death Valley, including the now-dry Searles Lake, with its eroded towers of tufa resembling a city, the Pamamint Range bordering Death Valley, various canyons, and even a waterfall in the desert.  You will repeatedly enjoy vicariously wandering this enormous, desolate, but incredibly beautiful and peaceful region.<br />There is some small overlapping between this book and EASTERN SIERRA, but the effect is magnify the fascinating nature of the regions, and not too distract or bore the reader.<br />I recommend purchase of both guides before taking any trip to these areas.  Reading the guides first and during the trips will increase your enjoyment and understanding manyfold, and help tremendously in planning the trip.<br />Needless to say, both books are recommended to the hilt.	2004-06-25
US	39773708	R30DA5VUPZZ4EZ	0962850500	786723508	California's Eastern Sierra: A Visitor's Guide	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The best travel guide I ever bought.	I was fortunate enough to purchase this book on the first day of two-week vacation in the Sierra.  Since part of the vacation was a planned visit to Mono Lake, the title attracted me.  A brief perusal demonstrated the exquisite color photography throughout the book.<br />After reading sections of the book, plans were changed to include much more time in the Owens Valley and kindred points.  We saw and experienced many things that I had never imagined, such as the Long Valley hot springs, the Owens River Canyon, rockhounding areas galore, Fossil Falls, the Coso Domes, Convict Lake, etc., etc.<br />The book is well writtten, and very well organized, taking the reader from south(Mojave Desert) to North(Bridgeport area, about 100 miles south of Reno) in successive chapters.  Although written for any person with a high school background, the book is particularly well suited for students of earth processes, including physical geology, weather, and field biology.   Attractions such as the Ancient Bristlecone pine forest, home of the worlds oldest trees, and the Mono Lake volcanic domes, one of America's most recent sites of volcanic activity, are especiall.y well discussed. <br />One of the most impressive features of this work is the careful road directions included at the conclusion of each subsection discussing a particular attraction.  Without these guideline, finding some of the areas would have been much more difficult.<br />Mixed in with the recitation of attractions, and things to see and do, is a history of the area, where you will find discussion of the various mining ventures in area mountains and dry lakebeds, as well as a narrative of the Owens Valley Earthquake of 1872.  America has not experienced a quake of this magnitude since that date.<br />The book was a treat to possess, both during my vacation and now.  Its photography and text rekindle memories of this wonderful region of our country, and I recommend it as highly as possible.	2004-06-24
US	39773708	RSY8PBSNVZWWE	0312977646	659453717	A Deadly Affair (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	1	19	23	N	N	A trite page turner for short-hop flights	For all the (...) hullaballoo, this book simply presents another example of the oldest story there is; the Eternal Triangle, and its consequences.  Granted, some of the facts are novel, i.e., a law clerk having repeated intercourse with a judge who was manifestly unqualified to be such, but who, even so, should have known better.  Of course, the law clerk tires of his wife, and so he kills her.  THE CONVICTION HAS SINCE BEEN UPHELD ON APPEAL, to no one's real surprise.    I live in the county where the law clerk and judge worked.  She was suspended, and then left office before the voters could throw her out.  We feel sullied by what took place.      The book is an effort to bolster the defense's case after the facts were adduced and the case decided.  Despite its one-sided nature, the book fails in its quest.  Mr. Fletcher is where he belongs, and the only amazing thing is that he didn't try to take the judge with him, so as to bring down his own sentence.  Apparently, even cold-blooded killers have some small vestige of morals.    The book addresses nothing really new in the human experience, caters to the tawdry, and I'm sorry I spent the few hours I did on it.  Don't even bother, unless you are really bored, and have absolutely nothing better to do with your life.	2004-05-14
US	39773708	R2228PD245WPQG	0140024999	588344934	The Terminal Beach	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Genius  at work	This is a collection of short stories by J.G. Ballard, whose surrealistic approach to science fiction reaches its apex in this effort.  &quot;End Game&quot;, a story of executions in the future, leaves the reader not exactly knowing if the imprisoned political leader is about to be executed at its end, but the character development borders on the fabulous.  <br />Also recommended most highly are &quot;Now Comes the Sea&quot;, and &quot;Chronopolis&quot;, the latter being the story of a society where time measurement is outlawed, and of the outlaw who wants to bring it back.. You will never forget any of these stories.  V<br />Very, very highly recommended.  This is a genius at his best.	2004-04-14
US	39773708	R3O06DO8845J1	0521477700	19932812	Volcanoes of the Solar System	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good introductory review of extraterrestrial volcanism	Mention the word \\"volcano\\", and most people think only of the Earth.  However, as this fine book shows, such is hardly the case.  Indeed, the phenomenon of volcanic activity is widespread in our own solar system.<br />The text is introductory in nature, and the book is unconfounded by spates of hypertechnical language.  Anyone with an average scientific backgound will easily understand the great bulk of the matters discussed.  Excellent photography, both from telescopes, as well as manned and robotic space vehicles, closely follows the text and contributes to its comprehension. <br />I believe the author occasionally leaves technical terms unexplained, however.  Also, the photography is largely in black and white.<br />The book begins with chapters on Earth's own volcanism, and then proceeds to other planets and moon, including our moon, Venus, Mars, Io, and Triton.  I found the chapters on Venus especially fascinating, given the wide variety of igneous features. <br />Any reader will come away with a well enhanced understanding of both our solar system and the part that vulcanism plays in its ongoing development.  Recommended highly, especially for student of and devotees of planetary astronomy and volcanic processes.	2004-01-26
US	39773708	R2ILQ164V31V9F	1560986794	697950871	The Ice-Age History of Southwestern National Parks	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very well-written  natural history of the Ice AgeSouthwest	Author Elias is an expert in Ice Age ecology, and has published several books on the subject.  This is one of the best.  Beginning with a four-chapter section on why it is important to study ecological systems of the past, the book takes its reader through the various Ice Age fossils of the Southwest, the types of material in which they are found, how they are dated, and nicely sums up this data with a chapter on how this data is pieced together to provide a tableau of past ecologies in an area.    Attention then turns to various national park localities in the Southwest, including Canyondlands, Grand Canyon, Big Bend, and various Anasazi ruin parks.  Each chapter discuss the various extinct animal finds in and around the named park area, and also includes information on past climates, flora, and effect of human cultures.  Among the vanished animals expertly discussed are the short-faced bear, shrub ox, American lion, American camel, and two varieties of ground sloth.   Locations of finds for each of these creatures are described and shown on generalized maps.    I was impressed by the depth of research and the excellent writing style.  The maps are somewhat vague, however, and I was disappointed in a lack of color photography.  These are small detractions from the overall quality of the book, and I would heartily commend the book to anyone with an interest in the Ice Age, paleontology or ecology, or in the Southwest.  If this describes you, then I especially recommend that you buy the book before you go to any of the named parks on a trip.	2004-01-25
US	39773708	R29M01U6HDJUFD	0671497480	895655901	Whatever It Is, I'm Against It: An Encyclopedia of Classical and Contemporary Abhorrence ...	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Simply one of the funniest quote books going	Name the subject; lawyers, Boston, poetry, Joan Crawford, clothes, rhubarb, etc., it will be criticized in a quote by someone.  From &quot;absolute&quot; to &quot;zoo&quot;, some wit's remark castigating it will be found in this book.  But the remarks aren't just a compendium of negativity.  Most are genuinely witty and comical.  Every page turned is an invitation to laughter.  No sacred cow is spared; none.  You will be amazed how many of these remarks enter your memory, to be used or parphrased by your own sharp pen or tongue.  This book is a true treasury of satire.  <br />Very, very highly recommended, except for the stupid and humorless.	2004-01-25
US	39773708	R1VIF1TG9RUAQZ	1555610862	967257381	Earthquake Country	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Living and traveling on the great San Andreas fault	The San Andreas Fault, one of the largest transform faults in the world, runs from the Mexican border north to northwest California, where it finally enters the Pacific.  Millions of people live by ths fault and its branches, and are subject to its powerful earthquakes at any moment.  Yet few are familiar with its exact route, what it looks like on the surface, and how to take simple steps to protect against its spasms of movement.  <br />&quot;Earthquake Country&quot; addresses these things in a simple, direct, and easily understandable fashion.  The photographs are well-chosen and striking, and the directions to various places discussed are highly accurate.  <br />A few years ago, I took a trip along the fault, from Pearblossom, northeast of Los Angeles, to Point Reyes, northwest of San Francisco.  I saw hills ripped in half, streets that had moved, fault lines in roads, streams that followed the fault, lines of sag ponds crossing hills, and many other amazing features and things.  Without this remarkable, carefully crafted book, I would have passed many of these features without knowing of their significance, or even their existence.  The chapters on the central sections of the fault around Cholame and Parkfield were especially informative. <br />As he takes you along the fault, the author also discusses earthquake protection, and seismic geology in a crisp, professional fashion.  This book is must reading for any Californian, or any tourist who visits that wonderful state.  I really enjoy the book, and recommend it very, very highly.	2004-01-24
US	39773708	R26U6WZ7GJEE9D	0809313200	943134296	The Next New Madrid Earthquake: A Survival Guide for the Midwest (Shawnee Books)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Required reading for anyone in  the Mississippi Valley	The dangerous propensities of the midcontinental earthquake zone known by the name of the New Madrid fault system are part and parcel of life in the area where the Ohio River joins the Mississippi river system.  In 1811 and 1812, a bone-shattering series of earthquakes took place here, three of which are estimated at over 8.3 on the Richter scale, devastating this region, creating new lakes, making the Mississippi run backwards for a time, raising hills, and changing river courses.  If such a series of events took place today, the consequences would be almost unimaginable.    Atkinson's book explores these matters with a studied eye, an easily understoood writing style, and contains many excellent diagrams forecasting where future quake damage will occur, and in what amount.  It also contains a shocking series of narratives about how little has been done to prepare for the next emergency.  Make no mistake, the New Madrid earthquakes of the early nineteenth century are not the last seismic events in this region.     This book should be required reading for every local and state government official in this region and, especially for every civil defense person.  While no one knows when the next giant eathquake will occur, and it may be some hundreds of years away, the magnitude of the potential disaster dictates readiness now.  Examples would include strict rules regarding construction of building highways, bridges, pipelines, levees, sewage and water systems and the like.  This book points out clearly what should be done.    I recommend the book highly.	2004-01-24
US	39773708	R3TIK220P2NGA2	0471140481	671952698	The Dynamic Earth, Textbook and Study Guide: An Introduction to Physical Geology	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Probably the best textbook for the physical geology student	There are a good many textbooks in the highly competitive market for this subject.  This is probably the best.  The writing is clear and easily understood.  Needed definitions are introduced at appropriate junctures.  The excellent diagrams and color photographs are carefully selected to follow the text and add much to its substance.   Finally, the broad subject matter of physical geology, including plate tectonics, vulcanism, earthquakes and faulting, mountain building, various forms of erosion and sculpting, minerals, and rock-making processes, among many others, are all encompassed in this book. <br />Physical geology is the study of the Earth's physical processes, and is the opening door to further study of geology.  You can't understand the rest of geology until you understand physical geology.  Count yourself fortunate if your instructor selects this text as your guide.  Even if you aren't taking the formal course, this book will enhance your understanding of our wonderful Earth.  I highly recommend this superb book for anyone who has a highschool education.	2004-01-24
US	39773708	R13MSMXY5BNSHL	0809313227	280203443	The Longest Cave	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A fascinating tale of cave exploration limits	I bought this book about 15 years ago while visiting Mammoth Cave National Park.  I still enjoy rereading it from time to time. It is the sort of book one hates to see end.<br />The book narrates the history of the discovery that Kentucky's Flint Ridge-Mammoth Cave system of caves is by far the world's longest known series of continuously-connected caverns. The writers and their many cohorts are not only daring adventurers, but a collection of cavers who deeply appreciate the mystery, beauty and science of caves.<br />A very interesting part of the book is the well-developed character sketches of the many explorers, a good number of whom participated in parts of the long, arduous struggle to discover the connections between five different large caves so as to make them one.<br />The overriding star of the show is the cave system itself, and the book contains many facinating portions about the beauty, danger, wonder, and history of the things found there by explorers dating back to prehistoric Native Americans, forward.<br />After a frustrating series of events, including an initial startling lack of interest/resistance by National Park personnel, progress begins to be made in leaps and bounds.  When the Ohio cavers find that the Flint Ridge system is the longest then know, an effort is taken up to connect it with Mammoth Cave.<br />In a spine-tingling narrative about going past the &quot;Tight Spot&quot;, a very small passage, the cavers eventually make the connection by going down in Flint Ridge and emerging in a well-known Mammoth Cave tourist gallery.  The sense of truiumph and relief is overwhelming and excellently captured.<br />My size and age prohibit me from doing the things described in this book, and I have never done them.  But I was captivated from start to finish by the story of these brave, resourceful people and the cave system they explored and charted.  It is as if I am there myself.<br /><br />My only quibble is that the photographs are limited and in black and white, but the excellent descriptive writing overcomes this factor.  I love the book.  Very, very highly recommended.nd in black and white, but the excellent descriptive writing overcomes this factor.  I love the book.  Very, very highly recommended.	2004-01-23
US	39773708	RFPS01Q4INLS1	0874170842	625725797	Geology Of The Great Basin (Max C. Fleishmann Series in Great Basin Natural History)	Books	4	22	22	N	N	America's Great Unknown revealed	The Great Basin is generally regarded as &quot;flyover country&quot;, meaning you either fly over it or drive through it on your way to somewhere else.  The big cities are all on the edge; Salt Lake City, Reno, Las Vegas.  And it isn't &quot;scenic&quot; for the most part, having only one national park.   Say the two words, and most Americans think of a dreary, dry, empty expanse of overgrazed sagebrush.  Well, most Americans are wrong.<br />The Great Basin, explored on its terms, is a fascinating expanse of unique geology, as Bill Fiero, a professor of geology at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, shows you in this fine book.  Written in easily read style, and understandable to anyone who has gone to high school,  the book takes you on a general tour of the wonders of Great Basin, including well-known Bonneville Salt Flats, a remnant of an Ice Age lake bigger than Lake Michigan.  You will also read about recent volcanoes, earthquake activity and faults, deep trenches such as Death Valley, ancient, dried up rivers, and fossil sand dunes.  Canyons, badlands, and mountains are also part of this region, and author Fiero takes you through these areas as well, all the while explaining how and why all of these features came to exist as they do.<br />The book not only has excellent color and black and white photographs, following side-by-side with the narratives, but gives the reader an excellent background on physical geology in general,  Indeed, it could easily be used as an introductory college text.  Remember that one advantage to the Great Basin is its aridity, which enables you to see and understand the rocks and what they tell much better.<br />I bought the original edition two decades ago, and the recent revision is even better.  Anyone planning a trip to the Southwest, in particular, Nevada, would be well advised to obtain this book.  As with most folks, I like to gamble and see the shows when I go, but this book will show you many more fascinating things to seeand do.  Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in the geology, or the Southwest as a whole.	2004-01-23
US	39773708	R2OXJ4MY7V3245	0932813712	375403640	The Path of the Pole	Books	3	25	44	N	N	Count me as a skeptic	In so titling this review, I do not intend to cast aspersions on the author's indefatigable industry and considerable scholarship.  He marshalled an impressive array of data and sought sensible conclusions from it, based on the state of scientific knowledge at the time.  This was in the finest tradition of scientific inquiry.  However, subsequent discoveries have vitiated many of Hapgood's premises and his ultimate conclusion of geologically sudden wandering of the poles is supported by neither earth science, physics, nor Quaternary paleontology.    It must be remembered that Hapgood wrote this book before the advent of plate tectonics, and while continental drift was rejected by all but a few scientists.  Admittedly, an analysis of magnetic lines of force in ancient igneous deposits would support his conclusion of wandering poles, IF there was no such thing as moving continents. But there is.     Likewise, with reference to sudden large animal extinctions at the end of the Pleistocene Epoch, research now shows that prehistoric hunting techniques were far more advanced than previously thought, and that extinction of many of the large creatures then living was due to man-created overkill, something that is going on even today.  As to climate peculiarities such as an open Arctic Ocean at the height of the Ice Age advances, research has disclosed that such is to be expected in the event of North American glaciation.    Author Hapgood, and his devotees, therefore, find themselves in a position better than the Velikovskyites, but in one which, like theirs, has been obviated by the discovery of facts and scientific principles which were not available to Hapgood when he wrote this book.  Therefore, although the book is highly interesting, and even persuasive in the face of a lack of advanced study of Earth sciences, I do not find its conclusions credible in this day and and age.  It is a pity that Hapgood is not with us now, for his inquisitive mind and obvious genius andindustry would benefit us greatly.    My lukewarm recommendation of this interesting book is based on the foregoing.  It is a good primer on how science develops, but not an accurate guidebook to the past in terms of conlusions.	2004-01-23
US	39773708	RPNDY3GAW3P91	0130081574	762465925	Essentials of Geology (8th Edition)	Books	4	73	73	N	N	A good textbook for the the physical geology student	This book is intended as a text for the collegiate course in physical geology.  The course encompasses a general overview of the physical processes by which the Earth continues to develop, both gradually and by sudden events of great magnitude. Plate tectonics, volcanism, erosion, mountain building and shaping, mineralogy, mass wasting, the impact of man, glaciation, and all other manner of things are clearly discussed in nineteen separate chapters.  The color photography and diagrams are remarkably good, and closely follow the text, which is a real boon, especially to a student who is hard-pressed for time.  The coverage is up-to-date and accurate in all respects.  Many of the photographs, such as the those of the eruptions at Montserrat, are very current. <br />Given the fact that physical geology is the first of six courses required for any geology degree, and that any well-informed person should have no trouble understanding the contents of this book, I would recommend it to any reader interested in earth science, student or not.	2004-01-23
US	39773708	R3USAU6E0F6TIP	0226323382	556401376	Meteorites	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good review of the science of meteoritics.	The science of meteoritics encompasses meteors, meteorites, and the features made by meteorites when they strike the Earth.  All three are well covered in this pocket-sized guide. The basic forms of metoerites, irons and stones, are excellently discussed, as are impact craters. The book contains a particularly good review of the huge meteorite crater known as the Ries Kessel, (Giant Kettle), a 15-mile wide scar in Southern<BR>Germany. I would have liked color photography, but the photos are well-chosen, if sparse.  The text rolls right along and is rated as high school graduate level.  Author Heide has written a fine introduction to the subject of meteoritics, and I give the book a good recommendation.	2004-01-18
US	39773708	R11ZUFSHCW8MVO	0127870261	659851071	Meteorite Craters	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Somewhat dated, but a good resource text.	McCall is an Australian researcher with a very conservative bent.  He is much more inclined toward finding a terrestrial cause for craters and cryptoexplosion structures than he is toward offering, or accepting, an impact theory of origin.  Even so, contributions such as McCall's are valuable because they make the impact proponent's research to be that much more accurate.  This book is not for the amateur, and a considerable exposure to impact phenomena is necessary before tackling this book, even though the dedicated amateur may find much of interest.  Anyone in the involvement of researching a possible astrobleme is well advised to be familiar with Dr. McCall's work.  I recommend the book highly to persons interested in impact craters and structures.	2004-01-12
US	39773708	RL5V8O5K4NMB7	0813722934	856493704	Large Meteorite Impacts and Planetary Evolution (SPECIAL PAPER (GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Necessary reading for the meteoritics student	This fine book summarizes the results of the 1997 Sudbury conference on the titled topic.  The papers on terrestrial impact structures, both known and possible, are very well done.  Particular reference is made to the papers on the Acraman, Beaverhead, Manson, and Zhamanshin structures, each of which open the field of meteoritics to new directions.  Also well done is the paper on the origin of the suspected impact crater at Al-Umchaiman, Iraq.  But the main highlight, in my view, is the excellent, closing series of papers on the renowned Canadian structure located at Sudbury.<br />This text is not for the rank amateur, but is very enjoyable and informative, if you are into meteoritics and impact mechanics/structures, either as a student or a professional.	2004-01-12
US	39773708	R3MMIXB1S2UOA7	0700612696	688439488	Sea Dragons: Predators of the Prehistoric Oceans	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A very impressive review of Mesozoic ocean reptiles	This  book has no real peer at the moment.  Indeed, a comprehensive, detailed, but easily understandable book on marine reptilian predators of the Mesozoic has been long awaited, and overdue.  These animals approached whales in size in some instances, and easily dwarfed their terrestrial counterparts.  Indeed, a T Rex may have been only one eighth the size of the largest pliosaurs.  Yet, most books on Mesozoic life have, until now, relegated these marvelous animals to one or two back chapters or sections at the most.<br />Author Ellis, a renowned illustrator, writer, and researcher, has produced a masterpiece.  His drawings of these seagoing reptiles are impeccable, if sometimes a bit speculative, and enable the reader to capably visualize these gigantic creatures.<BR>Likewise, the text is enormously informative, not only about such FAQ's as size, weight, methods of reproduction, etc., but also on more arcane matters, such as how these huge beasts propelled themselves quickly and efficiently through the water.  One glance at a long-necked, flippered plesiosaurus reveals that the answer to this problem is far from simple.<br />After an excellent introduction, the author covers icthyosaurs, plesiosaurs, pliosaurs, and mosasaurs in turn.  Ellis then concludes with what seems to be the mandatory conclusion to any Mesozoic book; i.e., what caused all of these fabulously efficient, dominant predators to disappear in one fell swoop.<br />I found this book enormously enjoyable, and it was one of my best Christmas presents in years.  I shall read it again and again.  Anyone with a high school background will enjoy this book to the hilt, and my recommendation is extremely high.<br />By the way, this is the sort of book one loans out only very carefully.	2004-01-09
US	39773708	R3INS3D45U3TTZ	0253342686	905729825	Ice Age Cave Faunas of North America (Life of the Past)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A scholarly treatise on North American Ice Age animals	If you are a passionate devotee of a subject, you hardly ever go wrong buying a book from Indiana University Press.  Each effort from this publisher is copiously and carefully compiled and researched.  Each has a wealth of information to offer the reader.  The present text is no exception.<br />This book consists of eleven papers discussing various findings of preserved Ice Age fauna in North American caves.  Description of the sites, ranging from Southeast Alaska, to Kentucky, to Yucatan, and to the canyonlnds of Arizona. Many sorts of creatures, including ground sloths, rodents, bears, lions, wolves, seabirds, and a host of other creatures are discussed in exacting detail, including sections on their lives, anatomy, method of preservation, appearance, et al.  The work is endlessly fascinating, but must be read in small capsules.<br />If a drawback exists, it would lie in a lack of detailed, color photography, perhaps.  Also, the reader should come armed with a considerable background in osteoanatomy and karst geology to fully understand some of the articles.  The multiple bibliographies are simply outstanding.<br />This book is not of an introductory nature, but is geared to the advanced undergraduate or graduate student.  The well-informed, but &quot;undegreed&quot; Ice Age enthusiast, however, will find many pearls of wisdom, and the book is also highly recommended to these people.  It is a very considerable addition to the Ice Age megafauna literature.	2004-01-09
US	39773708	R4VD8OPC4M95J	0898862485	337011051	South America's National Parks: A Visitor's Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent guide to exotic parklands	South America is home to many of the world's most spectacular natural wonders.  These include Angel Falls, the world's highest waterfall; Iguassu Falls, one of the world's largest waterfalls; the world's largest river, the Amazon; and the Patagonian Icecap, the largest in the world outside Greenland or Antarctica. All of these magnificent features and a host of others are covered in the text of this book.  Especially noteworthy as well are the Andean parks, such as Mount Fitzroy, Torres del Paine, both awesome mountain ranges, and Machu Picchu, the lost city of the Incas, discovered by Hiram Bingham in 1911.<br />This book addresses various national parks in South America's  nations, including the parks that encompass the foregoing marvels. Good travel tips are included in each article, including where to stay, what to do, fundamental regional courtesies and idiosyncrasies, expedition tips, etc.  Each featured park description also includes a map and black and white photos.  The centerpiece of the book is a series of extraordinarily good color photos coviering the more spectacular areas.<br />The text is easily read and provides excellent, frequently unanticipated advice for the North American or European traveler.  For anyone planning a trip to see the natural side of South America, this book would seem absolutely essential.  I recommend it highly.	2004-01-06
US	39773708	RVT1QY43H981C	0393087476	174249530	The Swamp	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellently detailed,colorful  look at America's wetlands	This book is a little known jewel that fills out anyone's nature library.  The author, Bill Thomas, is an unabashed enthusiast about his subject, and this has produced a peerless book.  The color photography is simply awesome, and copiously covers each selected wetland.  It proves beyond doubt that not all swamps are alike, or even closely akin.  The text is enjoyable, easily read, and dovetails closely with the many photographs. In each instance, the location, ecology, and human history of the subject wetland is thoroughly addressed.  You will be amazed at how much you learn, and how pleasurable it is to do this.<br />Thomas covers 21 American swamps, ranging from the Everglades, to the Great Swamp of New Jersey, to the Dismal Swamp of Virginia/North Carolina, to the swamp atop Mount Waialeale in Kauai, Hawaii.  I would like to have seen some coverage of some of the swamps of Northern Minnesota and Michigan, however.<br />The book is also a powerful argument to preserve our wetlands, and offers a multitude of sensible economic and aesthetic reasons in support of this plea.  Thomas ends this book with a delightful chapter on how to build a swamp in your own backyard.  This does not include how to educate your neighbors on the virtue of this endeavor, though!<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and, as it is written for anyone with a love of nature, recommend it highly to all.	2004-01-05
US	39773708	R2ZVUPR450VGTB	050005116X	3181285	When Life Nearly Died: The Greatest Mass Extinction of All Time	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A superb review of the science of extinction of species	Dr. Michael Benton, an eminent vertebrate paleontologist, has authored many books on the subject.  This is one of his finest.<BR>In this book, Dr. Benton addresses the multiple quandaries underlying mass extinctions, and ever-continuing, sometimes controversial, even acrimonious, effort to solve them.  As per his high standards, Dr. Benton's text is highly readable, even though complex problems are being analyzed.  He introduces the reader to alien or new concepts capably, and the text forms a seamless web along which any reader having a limited exposure to scientific disciplines may proceed without strenuous effort.<br />NOTE:  Although the book's title appears to indicate a rather exclusive discussion about the largest mass extinction, the Permian-Triassic event, which ended the Paleozoic Era and ushered in the Mesozoic, the actual scope of the book is more broad. This is a pleasant, and very helpful, surprise.<br />Dr. Benton begins with the discovery of dinosaurs, and the history of the mapping of Europe's stratigraphy, before moving into the area of mass extinctions.  Without this preliminary discussion, it would be far more difficult to understand how the concept and science of these events developed.  I view this as a positive aspect of the book, since the concept of catastrophic events affecting the course of life's progress was most difficult for pioneers in the field to accept.  The text admirably demonstrates that science is, after all, a human endeavor, complete with feuds, rivalries, and disputes.  Indeed, much scientific progress has been achieved via disagreements and attempt to disprove the opponent's theories.  I recommend this discussion to the students of ANY scientific discipline, not just paleontology.  <br />The book moves to an examination of the five largest mass extinction events, with special emphasis being placed on the Mesozoic-ending extinction of the dinosaurs and the Permian-Triassic event.  Smaller events are also addressed, such as the loss of species at the end of the Eocene epoch in our era.  Dr. <BR>Benton observes that the very large extinction episode at the end of the Cretaceous Period is almost universally accepted to have been the result of a colossal asteroid collision.  He very properly notes that as one moves backward in time, the problem of causation of extictions becomes much more difficult to solve owing to plate movements, erosion and sedimentation, and diminution of appropriate outcrops of rocks.<br />Addressing the book's titled subject, Dr. Benton reviews the various claims that have been advanced for the cause of this &quot;Mother of Extinctions&quot;.  These include another huge collision with an extraterrestrial body, great climate change, enormous volcanic eruptions in what is now Siberia, a gigantic release of methyl hydrate gases in the oceans, a large drop in oceanic water levels, the uniting of all land masses into a single continent, the explosion of a nearby supernova, and on and on.  Though he is taken to task by some reviewers, Dr. Benton reaches no categorical conclusion as to which of these events, singly or in combintion, offers the best explanation of the wiping out of over 90% of Earth's species of life.  His best guess, phrased largely as such, is that the removal of so many lifeforms was a combination of large volcanic eruptions, only one land mass, and the freeing of enormous amount of carbon dioxide into Earth's atmosphere by the breakdown of methane hydrates in the oceans of that time. <br />NOTE:  This writer disagrees, preferring the theory that an enormous impact event in the Falkland Island Basin caused antipodal supervolcnic Siberian lava flows, and that the combination of these two events almost destroyed the Earth's atmosphere, and its life.  But am I right, or is the far more qualified Dr. Benton right?  Or are we both wrong?  The answer awaits further data and analysis of it.  And coming full circle, this how the body of scientific knowledge grows.<br />In closing, this is one of the very best books I have ever read on science and its processes of growth.  I recommend this book to one and all, and very, very highly.  It is a true feast for the mind.	2004-01-05
US	39773708	RR3TZD3069PM8	0300098197	972130441	Prehistoric America: A Journey through the Ice Age and Beyond	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A very excellent text about the Ice Age and its animals	This book joins &quot;Ice Age Mammals of North America&quot; as one of the exceptionally fine recent texts about the vanished large animals living on the North American continent during the Ice Age.  Many of these marvelous creatures vanished less than 10,000 years ago, a heartbeat in geological time. You will be particularly struck by the superb, in-full-color computer graphics and photography in the book.  The two arts are combined to give astonishing looks at what these animals looked like in their native habitats.  If the book contained little more, it would be worth it on this basis alone.  But there is much more to recommend the book<br />After a good introduction, this book examines life during the recent glaciation, and into today, by region.  Six regions are encompassed.  The first is never-glaciated Beringia, consisting of Alaska and the Bering Sea land bridge.  Then, in turn, come the northwestern United States coast, the Great Plains, the Colorado Plateau and Great Basin, Florida, and the Eastern forest.  The differences, and similairties, between the Ice Age climates and fauna are carefully explored for each area.  Certain key animals in each region are analyzed by in-chapter profiles.  <br />These descriptions are completely up-to-date, and are accompanied by the excellent graphics previously discussed.  Animals reviewed in this manner include two varieties of mammoth, the mastodon, the saber-toothed and scimitar cats, the giant. armadillo-like glyptodont, the giant short-faced bear, which was bigger than a Kodiak bear, and several varieties of ground sloth.  You will also learn that quite a few animals survived the extinctions, including the moose, musk ox, grizzly bear, bison, elk, as well as many animals that lived on in Eurasia, but not here, such as the horse, the saiga antelope, cheetah, lion, camel, zebra, and the wisent, or European bison.<br />In the closing chepter, the authors examine the possible reasons for the sudden extinctions of so many large, dominant animals within the span of a few thousand years.  These include overkill by man, climatic change, and several other reason.  The discussion is timely, thorough and apt. <br />This book will provide many days of enjoyable, provocative reading.  Given ongoing changes in weather, loss of wildlife habitat, and the like, are we continuing, and even accelerating these extinctions?  This book offers excellent food for thought on such matters, but I will leave the ultimate decision to the reader, upon reflection. <br />Very, very highly recommended to anyone with a high school or greater background, including graduate students and academics.  Enjoy, and ponder.	2004-01-04
US	39773708	R156LS5KO05XMP	0911977198	5993838	Florida's Fabulous Natural Places (Florida's Fabulous Nature Series)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A keepsake for either vistors or natives of Florida	This excellent book is one both residents of Florida and visitors to that state will enjoy, and refer to again and again.  The color photography is peerless and well-selected. The text is easily readable and proceeds in a logical, understandable fashion, beginning in the Northwest Florida panhandle and proceeding south through the Keys.<br />Florida's Fabulous Natural Wonders review the jewels of Florida nature, as preserved in the Federal and State park systems.  In addition to such obvious topics as Everglades National Park, you will learn about, and see Florida's tallest waterfall; yes, it's 67 feet high, Florida largest lake, the biggest springs in the country, and much, much more.<br />A particularly attractive feature of this book is a listing of all of these parks in the back of the book, together with their location, and what each park contains.  This is very helpful for planning entire vacations as well as simple day trips.  The Table of Contents is on the last page, but now that you have read this review, you know where to look.<br />I suggest that any visitor to Florida should obtain this book beforehand, so as to plan ahead for seeing and experiencing the many wonderful natural things this increasingly populated state has managed to preserve. <br />This book is a fine compliment to &quot;Florida's Natural Wonders&quot;, a book I have previously reviewed.  I recommend each book very highly on its own, but, together, they are exemplary.	2003-12-24
US	39773708	RE2YIJA59WYDW	0801057744	522840876	The Collapse of Evolution	Books	1	52	94	N	N	Staggering ignorance	This book proves much, but not in the way its author intended.  <br />Instead of refuting evolution through a decidedly disingenuous &quot;conspiracy theory&quot; that all geology and most physical science are contrived constructs to support evolution, this book simply proves that religious extremism continues to be the enemy of knowledge.  Any person with a relatively basic background in science can readily decipher the lies and distortions presented. <br />In the place of combatting ignorance, a reading of this book  compounds it.  The author makes his his mind up at the start, and in a collection of faulty syllogisms and ignorance of reality, simply shows that lack of understanding  in a field comprises no basis upon which to explain it. Save both your time and money, and read something productive and logical.	2003-12-18
US	39773708	R1X6IFIWI3DJRP	0974458902	36130239	The Anarchist Cookbook	Books	3	143	171	N	N	Interesting, but unsafe	First published in the turbulent '60's, this book has attained a sort of cult status for that time.  It reflects many of the mores and problems of that generation of young people, and is worth it for a read for that, if for no other reason.<br />So far as bomb-making and all of that, the book is technically good, but the methodology involving use of nitrogen compounds, particularly red, fuming nitric acid and cotton, to make guncotton, is fundamentally ununsound and unsafe.  You could blow a hand off or worse very easily, following Powell's directions.  I think &quot;The Monkeywrench Gang&quot; and others of its genre are more in tune with today's eco-warrior desires.  Also, the book never mentions the superiority of Oxydol and its green beads, as a binding agent for homemade napalm.  For shame.<br />Even with these quibbles, the book is entertaining, and offers a clear glimpse into the mentality of a now-settled generation.	2003-12-13
US	39773708	R1AD4UWOSFKVQ9	0451528522	691093854	The Invisible Man (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of Wells's best novels.	From early times, men have fantasized about what it would be like to become invisible, as witness medieval stories about cloaks of invisibility, and the like. Wells's novel, placed at the turn of the last century, puts the dream into a modern context, but in it, the dream becomes a nightmare.<br />The beginning of the book deals with the coming of the man, who has invented a way to become invisible, and used it on himself, to a small English town.  He is essentially a refugee.  The Invisible Man is irritable to the point of homicidal madness, a trait engendered both by secretive overwork on his discovery and by the effects of the decolorizing agent. Because his invisibiity has caused him to go about naked, the Invisible Man has suffered terribly in the English winter, and he has clothed himself in bandages and stolen clothing to hide his newfound status. Still, he is undone by the nosiness of strangers and eventually flees again to find himself in the home of a former acquaintance, one Kemp.<br />In explaining his dilemma to Kemp, the Invisible Man, an albino scientist named Griffin, discloses that he discovered a compound that decolorized blood, and that as an albino, he was the perfect test case. Discussion of the refractory powers of light dominates this portion of the book, in a manner understandable to anyone.  However, taking the chemical creates great pain, and madness.<br />Wells's analyses of the problems facing one who has become invisible is extremely thorough, and done in the context of Griffin's narrative.  One must be careful not to go about in the rain, where he would appear as a bubble, or in the fog, where he would appear as an opening in the vapor.  One cannot walk through mud or puddles without his feet becoming visible, and must eat in hidden places, because the food eaten remains visible until digested.  The curiosity of dogs and persons with keen senses is aroused because the Invisible Man still leaves a scent and makes sounds as he moves about.  And the lack of protective garments makes one extraordinarily sensitive to heat, cold, and inclement weather.<br />Eventually, the Invisible Man turns to murder and arson to cover his &quot;tracks&quot; and, in the end, is undone and killed when he returns to attack Kemp.  The novel bogs down a bit here.<br />Wells's importance to creating s/f writing as a genre is that he used available science to explain how his fantasies came about.  In this respect, he differs from Verne and other predecessors, as well as a good many successors.  This trait makes his stories possess a veneer of believability uncommon to most s/f.  The Invisible Man is one of Wells's best novels, and I can guarantee that you will enjoy it if you like s/f.  Highly recommended.ut.  And the lack of protective garments makes one extraordinarily sensitive to heat, cold, and inclement weather.<br />Eventually, the Invisible Man turns to murder and arson to cover his &quot;tracks&quot; and, in the end, is undone and killed when he returns to attack Kemp.  The novel bogs down a bit here.<br />Wells's importance to creating s/f writing as a genre is that he used available science to explain how his fantasies came about.  In this respect, he differs from Verne and other predecessors, as well as a good many successors.  This trait makes his stories possess a veneer of believability uncommon to most s/f.  The Invisible Man is one of Wells's best novels, and I can guarantee that you will enjoy it if you like s/f.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-05
US	39773708	R2G2HCY78XRI0U	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A very good science fiction novel.  READ THE BOOK FIRST	H.G. Wells properly deserves the title of the founder of science fiction.  His novels are disciplined, very well-written, and devoid of the open ends and sheer fantasy that plague so much of this genre. (See the commentary to my review of War of the Worlds.) The present work deals with Wells's view of the far future.  Only a fleeting, rather optimistic, view of the near future is offered in the second chapter.<br />Well's nameless time traveler ventures to the warmer world of 802,701 A.D. and finds man divided into two camps, the Eloi and the Morlocks.  The Eloi are a gentle, winsome, idle race, who are served by, (and to), the Morlocks, a subterranean group of more barbaric beings who use the Eloi for food.  The Morlocks only come up at night, of course.  Many people feel that Wells based this division on the growing disparity between the working class and the English aristocracy.  This viewpoint is easily understood.<br />The two latest movies based on this novel destroy both its essence and its meaning, in my view.  The movies' intellectual content is zero, whereas the book exhibits Wells's genuine concern over future evolution based on present sociological trends.  The book is extremely interesting, and displays the wide range of intellectual gifts enjoyed by this eminent novelist and writer.<br />Perhaps the most fascinating part of the book is the further travels into time, after 802,701 A.D.  In the unexpunged version, the time traveler goes into a period where the sun has faded to an orangeish color, and the world is dominated by 30-foot-long insects who prey on the rabbit-sized animal descendants of man.  Even more fascinating is Wells' vision of the dimly distant future when the sun has expanded and faded to a reddish hull filling half the sky.  The only living thing seen on Earth at that point is a crab-like creature foundering on a cold ocean shore.  Wells's phraseology captures this forlorn event better than any movie ever could.<br />The time traveler then returns with only a faded mallow, and a bruise, to show for his troubles.  He informs Wells' narrator that he will travel again, but he then disappears, never to return.<br />Wells accurately envisioned then-unkown developments in astronomy, biology, global warming, and physics with startling accuracy, even though his time calculations are amiss.  Even today, his ability to create things out of his imagination that have since come to pass is unmatched.<br />The book is entertaining, thought-provoking, and marvelously written; a true gem.  I recommend it to one and all, very highly.then returns with only a faded mallow, and a bruise, to show for his troubles.  He informs Wells' narrator that he will travel again, but he then disappears, never to return.<br />Wells accurately envisioned then-unkown developments in astronomy, biology, global warming, and physics with startling accuracy, even though his time calculations are amiss.  Even today, his ability to create things out of his imagination that have since come to pass is unmatched.<br />The book is entertaining, thought-provoking, and marvelously written; a true gem.  I recommend it to one and all, very highly.	2003-11-20
US	39773708	R1JAIIL3RL5BBZ	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still the most superb science fiction written	The British author, H.G. Wells, was a man of many gifts.  He wrote the &quot;Outline of History&quot;, a superb, two-volume work on man's path through the ages, and many novels about English middle class life.  Wells is perhaps best remembered, however, as one of the founders of science fiction.  Of his many novels and short stories of this genre, War of the Worlds is one of the best.<br />A cautionary note or two appears appropriate here.  First, I hope you read this book before you see any of the movies taken from this novel.  Screenwriters uniformly butcher good literature, and this book has suffered more than most at the hands of these amateurs.  Second, Wells wrote many of his s/f novels nearly a century ago, and it is neither helpful nor appropriate to an enjoyable reading to compare the scientific knowledge of today with Wells's narratives, which were based on the best science of his time.<br />As opposed to the more famous Jules Verne, Wells is an accomplished novelist, and keen wordsmith.  His disciplined writing is geared to an educated, adult mind.  You won't find any untied ends, or sheer voyages into fantasy, here.  Instead, War of the Worlds is a very believable narrative of what would happen if modern man confronted a vastly superior, ruthless alien invader.  The fact that a century has passed and science has learned far more about the physical universe doesn't matter at all.  Human nature has not changed, and it is here that Wells is peerless in terms of analytical description.<br />The novel takes place in 1890's-1900's England, at a time when England was the most powerful nation on Earth.  The introduction is Genesis-like in quality, describing how man lay somnolent in the face of a gathering alien threat.  Without warning, the aliens suddenly appear, and man greets them in innocent gestures of friendship, only to be slaughtered by giant robotic devices carrying heat-rays,(lasers), poison gas, and devices capable of powered flight, none which man had yet invented or used in warfare.  The result, of course, is an absolute rout in which the best and worst of people appear.  It doesn't spoil things to note that the Martian invaders are beaten by Earth microbes, since everyone knows that anyway.  Wells's description of this defeat contains passages as good as any in literature.<br />This book is the first in which man confronts aliens from places other than Earth, and many commentators have tried to draw more from it than appears on its face.  Whether Wells intended an oblique criticism of British imperial policy is unknown to this writer, and I suggest that it really doesn't matter.  What is apparent is that only quality novels can engender such hypotheses, and the fact that such theories have surfaced shows the depths of Wells's writing.<br />Whether you finish the book viewing it as a morality play, or simply a visonary, well-written work, you will enjoy it immensely.  I do not make the statement in jest that I consider it one of best novels ever written.  I recommend it very highly.ad yet invented or used in warfare.  The result, of course, is an absolute rout in which the best and worst of people appear.  It doesn't spoil things to note that the Martian invaders are beaten by Earth microbes, since everyone knows that anyway.  Wells's description of this defeat contains passages as good as any in literature.<br />This book is the first in which man confronts aliens from places other than Earth, and many commentators have tried to draw more from it than appears on its face.  Whether Wells intended an oblique criticism of British imperial policy is unknown to this writer, and I suggest that it really doesn't matter.  What is apparent is that only quality novels can engender such hypotheses, and the fact that such theories have surfaced shows the depths of Wells's writing.<br />Whether you finish the book viewing it as a morality play, or simply a visonary, well-written work, you will enjoy it immensely.  I do not make the statement in jest that I consider it one of best novels ever written.  I recommend it very highly.	2003-11-20
US	39773708	R14EQ1JD07ER11	0486215318	143205211	Best Science Fiction Stories of H. G. Wells	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The tremendous imaginative power of a truly great mind.	For any s/f devotee, particularly Wells fans, this book is a must.  It is an absolute feast for the mind, disclosing any number of fictional but feasible possibilities, and how people cope with their unexpected benefits and dangers.  Most of the stories are tightly written, boldly imaginative, and always entertaining.  I and couldn't put it down, even after I had read it through the first time.<br /><br />By way of examples, in separate stories, you will encounter a lost Inca kingdom where no one has eyes; two chemists who discover an alkaloid so powerful that men who ingest become equipped with the power to move at super speed;  orchids that anesthetize people and suck their blood; ants that become intelligent and drive people out of the tropics in South America: how the Earth barely ecapes destruction when two planets collide and pass by on their way to the Sun;  the tale of the first adventurer to descend into the ocean depths,  the man who discovers the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge in Eden,  and on, and on, and on.<br />In typical Wellsian fashion, each story is festooned with those small details giving examples of careful though and review.  for example in &quot;The New Accelerator&quot;, the author is careful to not how the men's clothing becomes singed because they move so fast.<br />The number of things Wells envisons that have since come to exist include paved highways, powered flight, descent to the bottom of the sea in steel globes, and many more.  It is perhaps ths aspect of the book that is the most fascinating.<br />For entertainment and intellectual stimulation from s/f, Wells is hard to beat.  This book is very highly recommended. DON'T LOAN IT OUT.	2003-11-20
US	39773708	R2NQIMX7A1E3BC	0520218973	758723762	A Land in Motion: California's San Andreas Fault	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A superb book about an awesome phenomenon	The San Andreas Fault traverses much of California from the Mexican border to far in the north.  Those who have never seen it sometimes picture this tectonic feature as a lurking menace ready to swallow whole towns at a second's whim.  This highly accurate book dispels such misimpressions and passes along a good deal of valid scientific information in an interesting, understandable way. <br />The book shows in colored diagrams and easily read narrative how plate tectonics has worked to create this piece of California that is moving inexorably northwest.  The writers clearly explain how and why earthquake-producing stresses build up in and along the fault.  Brief, but spectacular, histories show what happens when these stresses are released.<br />The book is exceptional in that it discusses rather esoteric scientific concepts in a non-patronizing way.  The text is neither dry, nor overly simplistic.  Any person with a limited scientific background and a high school education can grasp the concepts being examined. <br />The photographs of such things as offset streams, scarps, trees with interrupted growth, and sag ponds are carefully selected, and beautifully crafted.  These follow the text well, avoiding the liability of having to probe through the book to match the picture with the explanation.  They will call you to come to California.<br />Two excellent features are discussion segments with geologists who work on solving the fault's mysteries, and a section on parklands in which San Andreas Fault features may be found. <br />I highly recommend this wonderful book to anyone planning a trip to California, anyone who has an interest in the Earth and its processes, and anyone who just likes a darn good read.	2003-11-13
US	39773708	R1N1LRXWOGLHHL	0870444425	181449432	Alaska's Magnificent Parklands	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An excellent primer for a trip to Alaska	Alaska is the land of far horizons and stupendous natural wonders by the score.  More than one visitor has echoed the remark that travelers should save Alaska until other desired sights are seen because the magnificence of Alaskan splendors pales everything else into insignificance.  This book suports that contention superbly.<br />The book was written just a few years after the Alaska National Parklands were created in 1980, but the photographs and text are timeless.  The parklands addressed will not have changed very  much, if at all, so the reader obtains many ideas about what to see and do in our 49th state.<br />The book begins with a very good introduction about the differences and dangers in Alaska parks, and proceeds to examine thirteen parklands in turn.  Glacier Bay and Denali, (Mount McKinley), National Parks are familiar to most readers, and I shall pass on further observation, except to exalt the must-see photography.<br />Katmai's volcanic regions, Gates of the Arctic's mountains and tundra, and Wrangell-St.Elias's and Kenai Fiords' glaciers and icefields are also well covered, and the reader inevitably gain fresh insight about these wonderful National Parks.  Likewise, the different writers capably address the archaelogical lessons to be learned in Bering Land Bridge and Cape Krusenstern National Monuments.<br />However, I personally found the most enjoyment in reading about the almost unknown parklands, such as Kobuk Valley National park, where the world's northernmost sand dunes are found, and Lake Clark National Park in the Alaska Peninsula, where a glacier-carved valley cuts through the Alaska Range, and where volcanoes, rock spires, waterfalls, glaciers, and wild animals abound.  The Noatak National River and Yukon-Charley Rivers National Reserve are similarly the subject of eye-opening examinations.<br />To me, the most fascinating park, however, was Aniakchak Natioanl Monument.  This giant, active volcano exploded 3,500 yearws ago and left a crater as big as Crater Lake, over six miles wide.  However, the very heavy preciptation soon forced an opening in the cliffs and the crater is drained through that gap.<BR>The river is very rapid, and the author takes you along on his hair-raising ride down that stream  Also shown are small volcanoes inside the crater and an unforgettable panoramic shot of the entire, drained crater.<br />Even if you never visit Alaska, this book will not leave your possession or memory.  Very highly recommended.	2003-11-12
US	39773708	R28IEMAP50LDNE	1555216714	24399206	National Parks of the American West	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A European view of our Western parks	This book is a refreshing, VERY well-photographed coffee-table work on the national parks of our Western States.  Both author and publisher are British.  The text is easily read, and is organized on a park-by-park basis, following an introductory chapter.  The reader is given a photographic viewpoint different from that of the usual American brand of telephoto and wide-angle pictures that leave distorted expectations.  Most, if not all photos are realistic depictions of things a first-time tourist might honestly expect to see.  The treatment of the Utah and Arizona parks, and Crater Lake is especially good.  <br />The book evoked many pleasant memories for me.  I heartily commend it to all, especially persons who have never visited these wonderful crown jewels of our nation.	2003-10-31
US	39773708	R1IPMRQVTPDNCA	0809420678	482018096	Labrador	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The definitive work on a little-known area	Labrador is the poor step-child of North America.  The word conjures up images of bleak expanses of bare rock and horrific swarms of insects.  <br />There is much more, however, and this book shows the bad side as well as Labrador in all its grandeur.  Labrador's climate IS severe and cold, but the short summer occasions displays of wild flowers and animal life not seen elsewhere, all of which are covered by the text, and the magnificent photography, in this book.  You will be amazed at the deep canyons, magnificent waterfalls, abundant and beautiful seabirds, sharp mountains, and the many other wonders of this largely unknown region. <br />Other chapters point out the rigor of life in Labrador, and explain how the insects are the true apex of life.  A special chapter discusses the ill-fated Hubbard expedition, in which the leaders became lost, and died of starvation.  The goals of the expedition were eventually achieved by Hubbard's widow, and the story of this two-fold expedition is worth a book in itself.<br />I learned a great deal about the friendly, tough people who inhabit the region, and about Labrador itself.  Labrador is becoming increasingly important, both as a huge source of iron and titanium ores, and as a waterpower giant.  A good part of what you see in this book is going, and you have a real chance to see the &quot;bush&quot; as it once was; one of the last magnificent wildernesses.  Very highly recommended	2003-10-31
US	39773708	R9SG1R9BKHVV8	083512388X	508725604	Quotations From Chairman Mao Tse-Tung	Books	3	48	64	N	N	A  contradictory guidebook to Chinese communism	Mao-Zedong was the leader of China's Communist Revolution.  He was a man of many faces; soldier, military strategist, politician, revolutionary, poet, fugitive, and leader.  This book is a collection of quotes gleaned from his speeches, writings, and interviews over several decades. <br />Mao's utterances must be read two ways.  The first is as exhortations of the ideal.  The second is as justification for what was actually done.   Mao seems to encourage dissent and analysis as the basis for revoutionary improvement on the one hand, but the record reveals that his rule was as an iron dictator.  Equally, he exhorts the faithful to achieve stability, but history shows his ill-fated Red Guard movement nearly tore China apart.  <br />I could go on at some length, but I leave the reader to make his or her own choices from the vast panoply of available material.  I do not believe this is a work that can or should be read without some prior knowledge of Twentieth Century Chinese history.  The book is important for understanding the Chinese world view as we enter dubiously into the 21st Century.  For that reason, I recommend it.	2003-10-31
US	39773708	R1I1YGO44Q41NB	068413439X	269910721	Island in Time, The Point Reyes Peninsula (The Scribner library)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A glorious place: Saved just in time	The Point Reyes peninsula, across the Golden Gate from San Francisco, and northwest of it on the other side of the San Andreas Fault, is the windiest, foggiest area on the U.S. Pacific coast.  It is also undeveloped, except for ranching, and is an area of surpassing beauty when the weather is good.  In the 1960's, urban expansion threatened this paradise with the usual sprawl, but timely intercession by California's Senator Clair Engle and Representative Clem Miller saved this area for future generations, as Point Reyes National Seashore.   This book is a well-written, well organized, beautifully-photographed masterpiece about that region and that effort. <br />You will learn of the great local controversy about whether Sir Francis Drake careened and repaired his ship, the Golden Hind, on this peninsula, or on San Francisco Bay, in the 1530's.  You will see photographs, and read about the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which was centered on this peninsula, and about immediately adjacent streams that flow in opposite directions to one another on the fault zone.  You will learn how Point Reyes is the farthest north piece of land that ripped loose from Mexico eons ago, and and how not only its rocks, but its vegetation are vastly different from that of the mainland, just miles away.  You will see its magnificently straight Seven Mile Beach, herds of elk, and forests in the fog.  And you will learn how a few far-thinking people saved this great treasure from the careless urbanization so common in southern California. <br />From any of several points of view, the book is an inspiration.  I highly recommend it.  Don't ever loan it out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	2003-10-30
US	39773708	RJR2MFBFG1R86	0060150823	57348955	War in the Falklands: The Full Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A small, but very significant war, excellently covered.	The Falkland Islands, (Islas Malvinas), are a windswept, rainy archipelago in the South Atlantic, peopled by persons of British descent who are largely engaged in sheep raising.  Not a place to fight a bloody war over, you say?  Wrong, and the Sunday Times Insight team does a most excellent job of explaining how and why the war came about, how it was fought, and how the British prevailed.<br />My fellow reviewer has excellently reported the problems faced by the United States in this war, and I can add nothing.  Instead, I would like to address the Insight team's analysis of the problems faced by the Argentines and the British, commencing with the latter.<br />The lack of British anticipation of the Argentine invasion is detailed, as are the reasons for it.  The Argentine plan was to present a fait accompli to the world, but the British were not prepared to abandon the islands so easily, even though they were 8,000 miles away.  Instead, a makeshift armada was jury-rigged, and plans were made as the ships proceeded south.  Distance continued to plague the British in terms of air battles, as heavy bombing was almost impossible.  The Argentine planes had superior speed, but the British carrier-based Harriers were more manuverable and carried the day.  Heavy weather equally bothered both sides.<br />The Argentine Navy was no match for the British and immediately retired to port after a single cruiser was torpedoed and sunk.  The Argentine Air Force had no real bombers and used Skyhawks and Mystere fighter jets as bombers.  The Argentine Exocet missile raised hob with British ships and the war may have gone differently had a few more been available.<br />The key difference was in the armies.  The Argentines occupied the Falklands with a great many more troops than were available to the British, yet the British easily routed the Argentines.  I agree with the Insight teams's conclusion that the reason lies in the fact that British soldiers are trained for warfare, which includes such things as washing clothes and dishes, digging latrines, making tents, and like menial tasks, as well as fighting battles.  Argentine troops came from an army trained to break up riots, keep civil order, and the like, and the referenced menial tasks were deemed beneath their dignity. In a cold, windy, rainy place like the Falklands, under battlefield conditions, the Argentine Army broke down, and although many of their troops fought bravely, their units were simply &quot;outtrained&quot; and outmatched.<br />We now know that the Falklands, and their surrounding continental shelf, show extremely promising oil formations, and that Argentina's action may have been a prelude to further sub-Antarctic and Antarctic territorial claims.  This the British could not endure, and so they fought.<br />This war had larger implications than first seen.  Certainly, the course of Argentine history was greatly affected, as the country's military government fell after the defeat, and was replaced by a civilian-led democracy.  Naval strategy, worldwide, changed after it was seen how a few well-aimed missiles could nearly destroy a fleet, and how aluminum-built vessels easily caught fire..  The area remains a potential tinderbox, but is heavily garrisoned by British troops, who actually outnumber the local inhabitants.<br />This book is well written, well-supplied with photographs and maps, and is the best book on the topic, I believe.  Very highly recommended to war buffs and students of history.includes such things as washing clothes and dishes, digging latrines, making tents, and like menial tasks, as well as fighting battles.  Argentine troops came from an army trained to break up riots, keep civil order, and the like, and the referenced menial tasks were deemed beneath their dignity. In a cold, windy, rainy place like the Falklands, under battlefield conditions, the Argentine Army broke down, and although many of their troops fought bravely, their units were simply &quot;outtrained&quot; and outmatched.<br />We now know that the Falklands, and their surrounding continental shelf, show extremely promising oil formations, and that Argentina's action may have been a prelude to further sub-Antarctic and Antarctic territorial claims.  This the British could not endure, and so they fought.<br />This war had larger implications than first seen.  Certainly, the course of Argentine history was greatly affected, as the country's military government fell after the defeat, and was replaced by a civilian-led democracy.  Naval strategy, worldwide, changed after it was seen how a few well-aimed missiles could nearly destroy a fleet, and how aluminum-built vessels easily caught fire..  The area remains a potential tinderbox, but is heavily garrisoned by British troops, who actually outnumber the local inhabitants. <br />This book is well written, well-supplied with photographs and maps, and is the best book on the topic, I believe.  Very highly recommended to war buffs and students of history.	2003-10-30
US	39773708	R3SIH4CGSQTVO4	069101213X	186413510	Volcanoes: Crucibles of Change	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A most excellent book on volcanoes	I recommend this book most highly.  It is well-organized, easily read by anyone with a high school education and a limited scientific background, and all-encompassing on the subject of volcanoes.  The latest developments in volcanic petrology, pyroclastic flow study, caldera formation, supervolcanic eruptions and their horrific consequences, and the like are superbly covered. Additionally, the book contains excellent narratives of nearly all significant late 20th Century eruptions, such as Pinatubo, El Chichon, St. Helens, and Paricutin.  The research is copious, and the results highly accurate.<br />The book has been well-proofed, with the pleasurable consequence that distortive prose, inaccurate figures, and like blips are virtually non-existent.  A fellow reviewer has stated that plate tectonics is not well-covered, but this writer's view is that the scope of the book lies beyond such basics.  Anyone unfamiliar with basic volcanological concepts should first read &quot;Teach Yourself Volcanoes&quot;, and then move into this book.<br />Again, I enjoyed this book to the hilt, and would prize it above most other books on the subject. I strongly believe it is the best non-technical book on the subject.	2003-10-29
US	39773708	RFKDBVJ1SII0J	1567188168	350623400	Comet of Nostradamus: August 2004--IMPACT!	Books	1	4	7	N	N	An appalling waste of good paper.	Why people persist in believing drivel like this is beyond me.  Even most low-grade imbeciles would know better.  Further discussion would amount to expatiation.	2003-10-11
US	39773708	R1HL6I3SM37D2F	0809420589	189939613	New Guinea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The world's last unknown place enjoyably explored.	Author MacKay has a loving relationship with the island he terms &quot;The world's last unknown.&quot;, and with good reason.  Although he writes in the first person, in this instance that form brings out the true beauty and significance of this awesome place.  MacKay's smooth writing style makes the reader feel that he is with the author each step of each amazing adventure.<br />The amount of generally unknown information contained in the book is staggering.  For example, Papua New Guinea has over 10% of the world's earthquakes each year.  The Fly River discharges more water than the Nile.  New Guinea has some of the world's most poisonous serpents, and yet some of the most beautiful birds.  Its wildlife is very much like Australia's, not South Asia's.  And the examples go on and on.  Each chapter is a moveable feast of the amazing and mysterious. <br />When the superb text is combined with the breathtaking photography, a treasure worth buying and keeping is obtained.  Of all of my books about places I will probably never have the good fortune to visit, this one ranks near the very top.  Highly recommended.	2003-10-11
US	39773708	R2XJIKMI70S1B7	0195150279	446849656	A Guide to the Elements (Oxford)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A perfect small guide to chemistry  for a student or layman	There are at least 112 chemical elements, all of which but a few comprise the entire world as we know it.  This book covers each element seperately, in order, from hydrogen to the various transuranium elemnts that only exist for mere seconds in laboratories.  Each element's atomic weight, valence(s), and various uses are given. Also given is the human history of each element, including its discovery and the origin of its name.  <br />I suspect that any reader, outside of a chemistry instructor, perhaps, will learn something from this endlessly fascinating, well- written and organized book.  Many general principles of chemistry rub off as well, and for the student or interested layman, this is a highly useful, easily readable, and understandable book about chemistry.  A true jewel, and I rate it highly.	2003-10-10
US	39773708	R2136AMB79IGVG	0816511004	354030654	Quaternary Extinctions: A Prehistoric Revolution	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A true masterpiece about extinction of Ice Age megafauna	This book is not for the novice.  However, it is an excellently organized and drafted presentation of 40 papers on the variously submitted causes for the extinction of many dominant and marvelous animals, from the end  of the Ice Age to our own time.  Since no formal records were kept on this decline, even though many vanishings occurred during the time of record-keeping people, the scientist is left to investigate and to hypothesize on the cause or causes of the extinctions.  Recorded here are many of those investigations and their results.  The diversity of opinion is an exciting testament, not only to the ingenuity of the investigators, but to the processes of science itself.<br />Some investigations are restricted, both in terms of time, area, and species.  Others are far broader, even global in scale.  It would appear from a perusal of the articles that climate and consequent botanical change, or the coming of man into a successful hunter, were the primary cause(s) of the tragedy.  But, as some contributors note, other causes may be relevant as well.<br />Among the notorious RECENT extinctions discussed are the mammoth, less than 3,500 years ago, the Irish elk, in 500 A.D., or so, the moa of New Zealand, the Aepyornis, or elephant bird, and the giant lemur, both of Madagascar, within possibly the last 200 years.  It seems germane that the islands, where man arrived only in the past 200 to 500 years, had the last megafauna to disappear, but, of course, the  process goes on even in our own time, as witness the mountain gorilla, black rhinoceros, Javanese Tiger, Tasmanian Tiger, passenger pigeon, etc.<br />As noted at the outset, some background in Ice Age paleontology is probably necessary for a full enjoyment of this book.  If you haven't one, I suggest that you read &quot;The Ice Age Animals of North America&quot;, by Ian Lange, and then read this book. <br />The volume at hand is one of the most fascinating books I have ever read.  I'd give it ten stars, if Icould.  As to persons who have some scientific background, my recommendation is off the scale.	2003-10-10
US	39773708	R17ERMQ59TICK	0316847895	662399264	Southern Cross	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A superb book about a little known region	Lapland is not familiar to a good many people.  Even though it encompasses a substantial part of Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia, say the word and most people think vaguely of reindeer, and that's about it.  This beautifully written, excellently photographed book will change your mind quickly.<br />You will learn that Lapland is one of the last areas of Earth from which the ice sheets retreated.  It is also the land of the Midnight Sun, as the striking cover photograph demonstrates. The photos and text will show you dramatic proof, particularly with respect to the lakes of Finland, and Sweden's Sarek National Park, the largest in Europe.  To those who have explored Rocky Mountain National Park or the Boundary Waters Canoe Area, these pictures will evoke many pleasant memories.<br />Also discussed in detail is Lapland's varied wildlife, including bear, reindeer, birds, northen pike, and, of course, the fabled lemming.  Writer Marsden's narrative of these animals is particularly engrossing.  He also investigates the many seabirds, especially in his facinating chapter on the Norwegian Lofoten Islands and the famous Maelstrom whirlpool.<br />&quot;Lapland&quot; also discusses the Lapps, those people who still live by following and guiding the reindeer on their annual migration.  The Lapps' ingenuity and perserverance in a severe climate is amazing.<br />I recommend this book very highly, as it is endlessly interesting.  Enjoy	2003-10-10
US	39773708	R36GEGSI8ZB90R	0809445085	640575546	Rivers and Lakes (Planet Earth)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent guide and source book	When it comes to geology and geological processes, rivers and lakes are rather prosaic for the most part.  Yet these features play as key a role as any process in shaping the Earth as we know it.<br />Professor Pringle's book is one of the very few that discuss the physics, chemistry and mechanics of these everyday, but marvelous features.  Written in a well-organized, easily read and understood manner, the book also contains excellent color photographs and diagrams, depicting the nature of things addressed.<br />You will learn how lakes are born, reach middle age, and eventually die.  You will become acquainted with why meanders exist and how they are a product of a river attempting to flow with the least possible energy.  A special chapter on the Great Lakes and Lake Baikal shows how true inland seas function. <br />I have been a geology buff for years and this is the best book I have seen on the subject, bar none, for the reader who does not have a specialized degree in the area.  I recommend the book highly.	2003-10-09
US	39773708	R3O634GW0KBW8W	1931672008	545768336	Night Comes to the Cumberlands: A Biography of a Depressed Area	Books	4	34	37	N	N	A significant text in understanding poverty	Harry Caudill was a native of Eastern Kentucky.  His narrative of life in what has become a monument to corporate greed is sensitive, feeling, and very much to the point.  The people of the Cumberland Plateau are a polyglot mixture, which Mr Caudill takes great pains to unravel.  This part of the book is truly exceptional, and is enriched, not cheapened by Mr Caudill's tracing of his own ancestry back to the times of the Spanish Armada. <br />Mr.Caudill shows how a wholly separate culture developed from the combination of escapee indentured servant, local Native Americans, and Eastern Europeans.  He expertly portrays the religious fundamentalism, outsider domination, and cynical exploitation that have held these people back from self-achievement over the generations.  Mr. Caudill tells you how the land, the rivers, and human lives have been repeatedly despoiled by King Coal.  He feelingly describes the squalor, poverty, ill health, and tragedies suffered by the region's people. It is not a tale for the overly sensitive, certainly.<br />Mr. Caudill reflects the ethos of his generation by advocating large-scale government programs to allay the region's problems, a &quot;solution' this writer views with some skepticism.  Nothwithstanding this, Mr. Caudill is a genius at showing how particular regions evolve very differently from their neighbors and what happens to those who are left behind. <br />I recommend the book to anyone interested in regional sociology, the South, and the Appalachian country.  It is well worth the read.	2003-10-09
US	39773708	R1Q9BFP8RHVRW9	0896583244	879982389	Florida: The Natural Wonders	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very beautiful book about the Florida you don't know	When someone says the word &quot;Florida&quot;, most of us think of sandy beaches, Disney World and the other theme parks, palm trees, and the Everglades.  Did you know Florida has caves where you can walk about, and see beautiful stalactites and stalagmites?  Did you think Florida had small waterfalls and high sand ridges, or that it is one of the largest subtropical forests in the world, or that it was part of Africa long ago?  Florida also has many types of life zones, including tropical forest, savannah, dry canebrakes, swamps, and the largest freshwater springs anywhere. These and many other fascinating, little known facts, and places, are shown in this book.<br />The text is well-organized, by region, and easily readable.  The four-color photos, using both 35 mm. and large format cameras, are simply breathtaking.  This book is the single best book about Florida's geology and ecology that I have read.  Whether you are actively planning a Florida vacation, or whether you live in Florida, you should read this book to learn more about the fascinating, off-the-beaten-path, natural marvels that abound all over this great, green peninsula.  You will never regret it.	2003-10-07
US	39773708	R3R5NTC3C65K9I	087081365X	919699167	The Geysers of Yellowstone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The definitive guide for Yellowstone geysers, and a lot more	If the phenomenon of geysers interests you, this is your book.  It should be the yardstick by which all others on the subject are measured. <br />Superbly well organized, and written, this book readily conveys the author's enthusiasm for the subject.  I would have preferred a few more color photographs in addition to the cover, but this is a minor quibble.  The black and white photos are chosen carefully, and give a good idea of the feature involved.<br />The book discusses all known geysers in Yellowstone, which park contains a substantial majority of these features on the planet.  Maps are supplied, and are easily deciphered.  Data is given concerning the eruptive pattern of each geyser, where known, and this proved most helpful during a recent trip to this magnificent area. <br />The feature I enjoyed the most was the detailed appendix, setting forth all known geyser fields anywhere on Earth.  I guarantee some of the locations and features will surprise you.  The author also discuuses which of these fields are most endangered by unwise development of geothermal power.<br />Very, very highly recommended.  Indeed, I should say it is indispensible for anyone planning a trip to Yellowstone National Park.  Enjoy.	2003-10-03
US	39773708	R1SPKKQISYAA1F	0878420630	704010226	Roadside Geology of Oregon (Roadside Geology Series)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Don't visit Oregon without reading this book	Mention \\"Oregon\\" and the average traveler thinks of Crater Lake, the Columbia Gorge, and miles of trackless evergreen forest.  The more seasoned may be familiar with Newberry Volcano, Mount Hood, and the Oregon Dunes along the Pacific coast.  But there is much more, and this is the book to show it to you, give you good directions, and explain why the secenery looks the way it does.  Once you read this book, even if you never get there, you will know why Oregon is the Unknown Gem of the West.<br />The writing is clear and concise, and the routes along which the reader is taken are well chosen.  Photography is black and white, and this detracts a bit, but is easily overcome.<br />Oregon has more geologically recent sites of volcanism than any other state in the Lower 49, and you are directed past many of these. So for anyone into volcanoes, as I am, the book is a must.  The various volcanic processes and minerals that formed thse features are excellently explained.<br />The book also addresses Oregon's many spectacular canyons, as well as its matchless seacoast, its waterfalls, and its sand dunes.  Virtually unknown facts, such as the largest U.S. meteorite being known, but not found, near Port Orford, are brought to light, along with a thousand other facts of the same genre.<br />I would be remiss if I did not praise authors Hyndman and Alt, along with Mountain Press, for this fine book, and others of its kind, covering other states, mostly in the West.  All are highly recommended, and will make any tourist's time more well spent and enjoyable.	2003-10-03
US	39773708	RHXUS9KLEVV2D	0486272753	882700843	Spoon River Anthology (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Arguably the greatest work of American literature	A person could read this marvelous literary effort as a series of free-verse poems depicting individual voices from the grave who can finally speak honestly, protected by the shadow of death.  But to read this work in such a manner is to avoid its essence. <br />Read more carefully.  Spoon River Anthology is a timeless portrait of the human story.  Each character is different, yet all are part of the composite of a small town.  It could have been a big city or a widespread area with few people.  The stories would differ in fact, perhaps, but the tale would be same.<br />You will meet over a hundred matchless, never-to-be-forgotten characters, including George Gray, who wasted his life by shrinking from it,  A.D. Blood, the town prohibitionist, who hated liquor so much he killed a man who was drunk, a politician, Hamilton Greene, whose mother was actually a servant girl to his father, but who never knew it, people who scorned life and were scorned by it in turn, people who loved life despite its adversity, people who wantonly ruined the lives of others, people who were dashed against life's shoals by the ruthless, people who were buried in the wrong grave, and on, and on, and on.  Each page is a precious gem reflecting someone you know, or even part of you, large or small.  The English is beyond merely superb. It is simply scintillating, and so astoundingly good in terms of word and vocabulary selection as to leave the reader amazed. <br />One facet that was most enjoyable was the number of attorneys and judges who spoke.  Masters, of course, practiced law for a number of years, and used this experience to depict realistic portraits of many lawyers, all of whom anyone in the law knows all to well.<br />Carefully perused, the work is truly a novel, not a mere series of poems, and a great novel.  Masters apparently poured his whole being into the effort, since he never remotely produced anything of its quality again.<br />Buy, read it a bit at a time.  You will treasure it always.   My recommendation is so high as to be off the scale.	2003-09-28
US	39773708	RECRH0GX756WW	0231065825	691931889	Before the Indians	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One of the better books on Ice Age animals	Dr. Kurten's status as the pre-eminent expert on Ice Age megafauna is unchallenged.  One of the most fortunate facets of this professor's expertise is his ability to transmit the fruits of that vast knowledge to his readers in a lively, interesting, easily readable, and well-organized fashion.  This book is an apt example.  Without overwhelming the reader by overuse of taxonomic names, statistics, or anatomical terms, Dr. Kurten offers a novel view of the Ice Age animals that dominated North America before the coming of man. <br />Rather than preceding along anatomical or taxonomic lines, Dr. Kurten moves forward through time, beginning in the Pliocene epoch that immediately preceded the Quaternary period.  Dr. Kurten divides the time period by use of the Blancan, Irvingtonian and Rancho LaBrean periods, rather than through more traditional European time periods.  By use of these American-based dividing lines, he is enabled to discuss not only individual North American species, but how the American animal community evolved and prospered into one like the world has never seen. <br />The reader is not only treated to discussions about familiar animals such as the sabertoothed cat, and the mammoth, but can be exposed to and learn about such creatures as the scimitar cat, the Florida cave bear, the American camel, zebra and lion, <BR>and giant extinct condors, among many others.  You will learn about the evolution of bison, and about the many animals that migrated to the Americas from Eurasia over the exposed Bering Straits during the height of the Ice Age.  <br />The book is unendingly fascinating, and one wishes he or she could be transported in time back to the day when these now-departed creatures made the American plains and forests teem with life.  I recommend this book very highly to all, especially high schoolers with a little scientific background.	2003-09-28
US	39773708	R2B9L5PK8WA9YA	0899848559	19925519	Book About a Thousand Things	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A most enjoyable book about everything	This book's author, George Stimson, was a lifelong newpaperman. The book is a collection of much of the curiosities, trivia, and essential facts such persons need and accumulate over many years, and is an utter delight to read. <br />Now are there exactly 1,000 items covered?  Mr. Stimson doesn't say, and it doesn't matter.  You will learn the origins of sayings - &quot;Pennies on a blind man's eyes&quot;, where things are, e.g, the Balkans, who first said a famous quote, how a unit of measurement originated, etc., etc., etc.,.<br />This data is neither collected nor presented in a simple question and answer format, as is the unfortunate instance with many of today's cheap trivia books.  Rather, once the question is asked, the answer comes in a fairly lengthy or set of lengthy paragraphs chock full of tidbits and information about the subject, including, in almost every instance, things you never knew or even suspected about the topic.  Everything from soup to nuts to atomic physics to why things happen, or how they originated is found here.   Each turn of a page presents another pleasant surprise.<br />You shouldn't sit down and attempt to read this book cover to cover in a few sittings.  Instead, just enjoy it a few pages at a time.  It is a fun book, with sprightly prose, and yet serious about the topics presented.  If I had to start a private library with one book, this would be it.  Very, very highly recommended.	2003-09-27
US	39773708	R2USIM144XRQMB	0912856017	539002536	Cascade Range	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A marvelous coffee table book	Ray Atkeson was one of the premier photographers of the American West.  His life was spent turning out reams of high resolution, large-format photos of skiing, mountain, and ocean scenes, and all manner of celebrated depictions of the varied panoramas of the West.  This book is arguably his best.    Using an obviously very large format camera, and excellent color film, Mr Atkeson captures the Cascades in their finest moments, commencing with his indescribably beautiful jacket cover photograph of Mount Hood at sunset.  Mr. Atkeson had the eye and heart of a pure artist, and his photographs of the various large volcanoes and numerous waterfalls of the range must be seen to be believed.      An easily read, well-organized text follows the journey north from Lassen Peak to the North Cascades National Park.  This text movingly portrays Mr. Atkeson's love for this scenic region.  The book was published before the epic eruption of Mount St. Helens in 1980, and we can only wonder at the awe the author must have felt as he photographed that event.     The book, and the photos, are works of a master in love with his subject, and will beautify and enrich your life, even if you have never visited the area.  I recommend it highly, with caveat that you must never loan out the book.	2003-09-24
US	39773708	R32D6FHUZIEBTS	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The best study of modern American politics in practice	Most political science texts are pedantic, dry, and boring.  This one is not.  The author is known for gonzo journalism; an essentially free association form of writing aided by copious intakes of drugs, hallucinogenics, alcohol, and God knows what else.  It is a form of free-for-all frenzy that Thompson has elevated to a fine art.  Initiates to this style of writing may be inclined to dismiss it as drug-crazed nonsense, but bear with the book, even though sections of it are marked with coarse, but funny, insults, tales of escapades under the influence, and frightful poems by the author.  <br />Admixed in this collage is the background story of the McGovern campaign of 1972, and a remarkable journey it is.  Thompson closely examines the dynamics of groundroots politics, including issue formation, organization, campaign tactics, conventioneering, and the like.  He shows you the Eagleton debacle, the abdication of labor's role in the Democratic Party, why Muskie failed miserably, the use of drugs by candidates, and a thousand other things you would never have thought about unless you are active in political campaigns. <br />Overall, the book is a scintillating picture of America at the closing of the Vietnam era, and the effect this had on politics.  I recommend the book very highly to anyone interested in the political process, INCLUDING professors, students, political operatives, and the person in the street.  Thompson was out there.  He saw the campaign in action and reports his views with great passion and by never being dull.  I loved the book.	2003-09-24
US	39773708	R1KCYHA3C3UGNK	0871567148	93686043	The Edge of Fire: Volcano and Earthquake Country in Western north America and Hawaii	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interesting look at geologic hazards in the American West	Photojournalist Robert Wenkam is noted for his fine work on environmental and conservation problems facing the Hawaiian island chain.  This book is more broad, covering not only Hawaii but the West Coast of North America.  Included are reviews of the San Andreas Fault, the Cascade Range, Yellowstone, and Mexican and Alaskan volcanoes. <br />Although I admire Wenkam's enthusiasm, this text is not particularly well organized, leaping from topic to topic, and back again, particularly with respect to the San Andreas Fault.  Also, Wenkam offers his own theories as to particular phenomena, sometimes without scientific support.  An apt example includes his contention that the pre-Aztec civilization in the Valley of Mexico was destroyed by volcanic action. <br />Wenkam's photography, of course, is peerless, and the four-color reproduction is outstanding.  It is these numerous excellent photographs that caused me to give the book a four-star rating instead of a three.  I recommend this book to those who seek excellent pictures of tectonically active areas of the West.  The book is slightly less than coffee table sized	2003-09-24
US	39773708	R3TX2726R79O19	0671728687	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The definitive history of Nazi Germany	This book is one of a kind; a true classic for the ages.  Commencing in the 19th Century it sets the philosophical foundation of the Nazi Party, examining the persons who created the ideology.  Moving to Hitler's youth, the forces that shaped him are closely reviewed.  Shirer then shows the rise of the Nazis as a political force in post World War I Germany, and how this was aided by an overly harsh Armistice treaty, hyperinflation, and a weak government.  All of this is covered in what seems to be excruciating detail, but once the reader peruses the easily understandable text, it becomes apparent that a lesser treatment would almost be worse than no examination at all.<br />Shirer then turns to the Nazis' ascent to power, and the years prior to World War II.  Masterfully exhibiting a deft touch, Shirer exhaustively traces the consolidation of power, the first anti-Jewish atrocities, and the almost innumerable opportunities the West squandered in failing to stifle Nazism by diplomacy and appeasement, instead of using or threatening use of force.  One by one, the Rhineland, Austria, Memel, Czechoslovakia and Spain fell into the Nazi orbit.<br />Shirer's best work, in my opinion, is the discussion concerning the events leading up to the invasion of Poland.  Hitler's cynical dealings with the equally cynical Russians are amazingly detailed in this book.  A sense of breathless anticipation ensues as the date of the Polish invasion draws near.  And finally the war begins.<br />Shirer's treatment of the Second World War is superb.  He focuses not so much on specific battles, but weaves them seamlessly into a general narrative of how the various thrusts, including the Balkans, Scandinavia, France, North Africa and Russia proceed from the Reich viewpoint.  A fascinating chapter includes Hitler's aborted plan for an English invasion, and what would have been done had it succeeded.  Shirer's research is such that he questions the loyalty of the Duke of Windsor, a by-now accepted premise, forty years ahead of its time.<br />As the tide turns against Germany, Shirer veers slightly and presents a magnificent chapter about the Nazi genocides and atrocities, setting forth what was done in grisly detail.  This reading is not for the squeamish, but it is necessary to understand what the true nature of the Third Reich was. He then turns back to D-Day and the collapse of Germany, concluding with the bomb plot against Hitler, and his subsequent suicide.<br />One of the better parts of the book is the Epilogue, which covers the Nuremberg trials, and what was adduced by them.  This is must reading.<br />This book, and its companion work on the Collapse of France, comprise a rather complete history of Western Europe in the years 1870-1945.  Certainly, they are a winter's worth of reading, but you will never find them dull, disappointing, or inaccurate.  Shirer's two works are epic in stature, and will be read years from now.  There are no photographs, and few maps.  Those maps that are presented are very well done.  Shirer is to be commended for his herculean effort and his studied objectivity in discussing such a cataclysmic evil.<br />Again, the book is a true classic.  I recommend it highly.  NEVER LOAN IT OUT TO ANYONE.ed premise, forty years ahead of its time.<br />As the tide turns against Germany, Shirer veers slightly and presents a magnificent chapter about the Nazi genocides and atrocities, setting forth what was done in grisly detail.  This reading is not for the squeamish, but it is necessary to understand what the true nature of the Third Reich was. He then turns back to D-Day and the collapse of Germany, concluding with the bomb plot against Hitler, and his subsequent suicide.<br />One of the better parts of the book is the Epilogue, which covers the Nuremberg trials, and what was adduced by them.  This is must reading.<br />This book, and its companion work on the Collapse of France, comprise a rather complete history of Western Europe in the years 1870-1945.  Certainly, they are a winter's worth of reading, but you will never find them dull, disappointing, or inaccurate.  Shirer's two works are epic in stature, and will be read years from now.  There are no photographs, and few maps.  Those maps that are presented are very well done.  Shirer is to be commended for his herculean effort and his studied objectivity in discussing such a cataclysmic evil.<br />Again, the book is a true classic.  I recommend it highly.  NEVER LOAN IT OUT TO ANYONE.	2003-09-24
US	39773708	R1ZS2Z7ZJNANBN	0394471237	238214161	Not from the Apes: A History of Man's Origin and Evolution (English and Swedish Edition)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A very good book on our beginnings	When I saw this book in a used book store, I was inclined to dismiss it as so much Creationist nonsense, given the fact that the first four words of the title were emphasized on the cover.  Then I saw the author was Dr. Kurten, a renowned paleozoologist. I took a second look, and I'm glad I did. <br />Dr. Kurten shows, with the impeccable thoroughness and the clear, logical writing style that is his hallmark, that man and the anthropoid apes, such as the gorilla, chimpanzee, and orangutan, seperated from a common ancestor over 12 million years ago, deep in the Miocene.  He traces the history of Ramapithecus, an ape-like creature that lived in India, and shows that Ramapithecus and its descendants, the australopithecines, although simian in look, were actually hominids; the ancestors of man.  Dr. Kurten's anatomical studies are copious and well-reasoned, and his proofs impressive in support of his theory.  <br />Refreshingly, Dr. Kurten does not claim to have all of the answers, and, indeed, some of his material is now superseded by other findings, but the essential premise he chose remains valid.  I was very impressed with this book, short though it was, and commend it to any student of anthropology or anatomy.	2003-09-24
US	39773708	R1NEJSXEKLKI1D	055334532X	962655503	The War Against the Jews: 1933-1945	Books	5	22	26	N	N	The Holocaust book by which others are measured	Although an ocean of material has been written about the Holocaust, this book stands alone.  The author has chosen the best way to present the material; by simple factual recitation.  No amount of pejoratives would suffice, and even one would cheapen the book. Salut!!!!!!!!<br />Davidowicz examines the underpinnings of pan-European anti-Semitism, its &quot;legitimization&quot; by the Third Reich, its consequences on the victims, and the awful results masterfully.  Especially excellent are the sections on why so little resistance was offered until the end, when resistance was a gesture, not a viable tactic. <br />You will never forget the first mayor of the Warsaw ghetto, Adam Czerniakow.  This book is unforgettable, and earns the highest rating possible.	2003-09-23
US	39773708	R1TVA9WGCKEC5A	0671240625	309402994	MacArthur in Korea.  The Naked Emperor.	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An excellent narrative, honestly presented	General Douglas MacArthur was one of those war heroes about whom much favorable legend was created by his own concerted efforts.  This book exposes MacArthur's megalomania, presenting much evidence that the tragedy of the 1950 Chinese counterattack could have been avoided had the book's subject been more objective and less interested in his image.<br />MacArthur and his close assistants were informed of the massive Chinese infiltrations and chose to deliberately disbelieve it. General Almon, a serious admirer of Fascist leaders and principles, continued to pooh-pooh the Chinese power even after it became apparent.  MacArthur knew of these beliefs on the part of his chief assistant, yet continued to keep him in his post.  The book carefully documents MacArthur's misguided attempt to widen the conflict by running his own foreign policy, and objectively traces his disgrace after Truman had to fire him. <br />You can find this book here, of course, or in most used bookstores.. The price is reasonable.  The information gained about a historical aberration is most worthwhile.  I recommend the book highly	2003-09-20
US	39773708	R9A5G26XWQQS	0528810340	786708743	New Zealand the Glorious Islands	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very impressive, large-format,  coffee-table book	The premise of this book is contained in the fact that no part of New Zealand lies more than 60 miles from the ocean as the crow flies.  Following an initial introductory chapter, the book moves to a long, scintillating series of aerial photographs of New Zealand's coastal features, beginning with the northerly coast of South Island, moving down the western coast and proceeding all around that island.  The photographs of the Fiordland Park sounds, particularly the little-known Dusky and Doubtful Sounds, cannot be described adequately in terms of beauty by word alone.  They must be seen to be believed. <br />The book is broken into coastal sections, and each chapter is preceded by a clear, eloquent commentary, followed by the pictures.  Additionally, each photo has its own small, but informative comment.  These narratives, althogh rather short, contain much information about New Zealand that doesn't seem to have been published elsewhere.  The reader comes away with an enhanced urge to visit, or revisit, this amazing nation.<br />The same process is used on North Island, beginning at Wellington, and then proceeding up the coast and around the island back to Wellington. In particular, the photos of Mt. Egmont, a dormant volcano, are breathtaking.<br />My only reservation about the book was its failure to show the interior volcanic area of North Island, but that is a small quibble.  If you want to go to New Zealand, you should read this book.  If you can't go, save it for your dreams.  I own the book, and I won't loan it out to anyone.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-20
US	39773708	R3C2PYZ66YUOGS	0306805626	359845423	The Collapse of the Third Republic: An Inquiry into the Fall of France in 1940	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The best study on why democracies sometimes fail	This book is simply superb, and in the best tradition of William Shirer.  No pictures, a few maps, and over 800 pages of simply excellent historical prose.  In my mind, this book is more important than Shirer's more renowned \\"Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, (which two books should be read as companions.).<br />The text begins in 1870, with French suffering their overwhelming defeat in the Franco-Prussian war.  A non-monarchical, democratic form of government was established, but was weak from its inception.  A preview of Fascism of fascism called Boulangism very neary toppled before 1000 was even reached.  The shameful Dreyfus affair is carefully chronicled, as are the numerous other French failings leading up to World War I. <br />Shirer covers this war masterfully, showing the French barely avoided catastrophe, with special emphasis being placed upon the immense casualties the French Army suffered.  Luck and perhaps, Providence overcame mutinies, influenza, and occasional inept strategy, and the French and their allies won over the Central Powers  The Versailles Treaty, ending the war, was heavily punitive, at French insistence, leading to German resentment and extremism, and, ultimately, to World War II.  The French never saw it coming.<br />Now begins the most fascinating part of the book;, the time between the end of World War I and 1940.  The French government was headed by a succession of Premiers who were either pathetically weak /oblivious to reality, or both.  An excellent case in point is Eduoard Daladier, who was primarily responsible for the state of the vaunted French Army, and who took part in appeasing Hitler at Munich in 1938. <br />Although Daladier definitely should have known that Maurice Gamelin, the Generalissmo of the Army, was manifestly unfit for the job, he, as with Leon Blum, and numerous others, kept this vacillating coward, who would not accept the urgency of German actions, on the job. Shirer carefully shows how Gamelin, and many of his subordinates lived in the past, refusing to study new tactics dictated by fast moving masses of armor, refusing to accept the role of air power, refusing to accept intelligence reports showing a German invasion was coming and where, etc.  The result was inevitable.<br />While Gamelin enjoyed dinners, and puttered in a post far back from the front, the French Army was decimated at Sedan, and in Flanders, and, five days into the war, Gamelin calmly accepted defeat.  Time and again, a little planning could have avoided this outcome.  Shirer's well-researched narrative leads the reader to wonder why Gamelin wasn't executed or imprisoned for dereliction of duty after the war.<br />Eventually, the French capitulated, and the sorry chapter of the Vichy Armistice began.  After the Allies finally drove the Germans out, a different government was instituted, but the consequences of Third Republic's failures live with us yet.<br />If there is a hero in thie sorry batch of leaders after WW I, it is Paul Reynaud, a Churchillian figure, who became Premier far too late to alter what his predecessors had allowed to lapse.  Reynaud wanted to fire Gamelin, but Daladier would not have it.<br />If this book shows anything, above all else, it shows that strong leadership is needed to preserve a democracy, and that the consequence of weakness and vacillation in the face of a determined enemy leads to appalling catstrophe.  These lessons are relevant even in our own time.<br />The text is well-orgainized, and painfully explict in terms of the ebb of the Third Republic.  I found Shirer to be very objective.  The book is very long, but well worth the read.  I recommend it very highly	2003-09-20
US	39773708	R3FF4ZK3PKB6LD	0139422196	137500979	Volcanoes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A valuable book on volcanic phenomena	The only reason I do not give this book a five-star rating is that it is somewhat outdated.   This is understandable, since it was published when plate tectonics was still a doctrine in its infancy.<br />Nonetheless, Dr. MacDonald's book contains much valuable information that is still relevant today.  Divided into chapters concerning the various kinds of volcanic ejecta and consequent landforms created by it, the book masterfully, yet easily, explains the different kinds of lava, tephra, bombs, domes, cones, cinder cones, shields, and plateaus created by the different kinds of eruptions.  The book also contains numerous black and white photos gathered from all over the world to illustrate what is being addressed by the text.  The photographs of Russian volcanoes and the different types of lava flows are particularly worthwhile.  The text is well-organized, readable, and may be understood by anyone with a high school or better education. <br />Even though it is outdated in spots, the book is a worthwhile read for anyone with an interest in geology and the way the Earth is made and rejuvenated.  I recommend it without hesitation.	2003-09-19
US	39773708	RRGR4JUSMDVJ9	0415014492	295149998	The Little Ice Age	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Even though dated, still the best book on the topic	The so-called Little Ice Age was one of a series of climatic changes in the Holocene that serve to remind us we still live in a period of relatively frigid climate.  Several books have been done on this phenomenon, from which we are still emerging.  This book is by all odds the best, even though some of the material is dated in terms of conclusions drawn.    Following a most worthwhile introductory chapter, author Grove turns to a review of how the cooler weather impacted various regions, including Iceland, Scandinavia, the Alps, North America, and New Zealand.  Although diagrams are provided, the best proof of the ice advances and retreats lies in fine black and white photos and narratives of persons who lived in areas where farms were destroyed, people had to leave, and life was threatened by famine.  The photos are in black and white because, for the most part, they were taken before color film processing was invented.      The author also presents an excellent discussion of how morainal advances show the Little Ice Age was hardly a singular event, and follows this analysis with a general review of Holocene warmings and coolings.  Plainly, even geologically short interglacial periods, such as we now live in, are marked by fluctuations in climate.  The text is well-written, well organized, and easily readable.     In its closing pages, the book reflects on how even minor changes in climate can have have dire consequences.  The book notes that Norse colonies in Greenland were destroyed, and that the people died of famine when they could not leave because ice choked the North Atlantic.    Although the concept of the Atlantic Conveyer Belt had not yet been articulated, author Grove presents data inferring its existence.  She also addresses the concept of warming climate, but mercifully spares the reader any conclusions as to its cause.    I found the book to be exceptionally informative, and would recommend it to anyone, student, graduate, or interested layman, who enjoys reading about glaciation, climate, geology, or all of the.	2003-09-18
US	39773708	R1EM8SRN17K4LR	0521330092	618184543	Living Ice: Understanding Glaciers and Glaciation	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A superb book on glaciation and glaciers	I was distressed to see this book is apparently out of print, as I believe it is the best, most complete book on glaciers and glaciation/glacial processes for the uninitiated reader.  The graphic photographs lose none of their impact by being in black and white, and greatly aid the reader's understanding in following the matters discussed in the lucid, easily read text.  <br />Another virtue of the book is to emphasize, on first use, each term with which the reader may not be familiar.  Learning of the topics and copics is greatly facilitated.  Finally, the book contains easily understood diagrams of glaciers, and the landforms they create.<br />Having read the book, the reader has become very familiar with the basic knowledge of this most important phenomenon, and stands ready to tackle more detailed work if he or she so desires.  I recommend this work very, very highly.	2003-09-18
US	39773708	R208I1D3G7C4R8	0385181019	796051376	Dictionary of Geological Terms: Third Edition (Rocks, Minerals and Gemstones)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A handy review in reading treatises	As scientific dictionaries go, this one is fairly complete.  Good coverage is afforded esoteric terms.  Somehow, I have the feeling, though, that the book is more attuned to rockhounds than it is to professional geologists.  The book lacks diagrams or photos.  In a good many instances, this would afford a newcomer a bettle handle on the term being defined.  <br />For all of this, it is a handy guide when looking at particular rocks or strata, but its real virtue lies in being at the student's hand when attempting to unwind a treatise confounded by excessive verbiage.	2003-09-12
US	39773708	R2NNCTI523KHSF	0471116874	411104429	Harm de Blij's Geography Book: A Leading Geographer's Fresh Look at Our Changing World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Why geography is so important	This book is the best I have seen at explaining the importance of having a working knowledge of geography.  I admit to prejudice, having had Professor DeBlij for SubSaharan Geography while a student a Michigan State University over 35 years ago.  Time has only increased Professor DeBlij's enthusiasm and ability to communicate his expertise.<br />Dr. Deblij traces the evolution of geography as a useful scholastic discipline by superbly relating its relevance to day-to-day living.  Additionally, especially through his discussion of yet-to-be-born nations such as Catalonia, Coastal China, and others, he shows the path political and social evolution might be expected to take in the future.  Knowing such things aids us in planning investments, travels, and numerous other actions. <br />Dr. DeBlij's style is the same when I had him in lectures: sprightly, organized, and very enjoyable.  You will enjoy this book on first reading, and will make recourse to it frequently after that polint.  Highly recommended.	2003-09-12
US	39773708	R3OS1VWVHL4ACY	0877452571	444554551	Fragile Giants: A Natural History of the Loess Hills (Bur Oak Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent study of an unknown wonder	The loess hills of Iowa and Missouri are the gift of Ice Age dust storms, which deposited this very fertile soil in large piles on the East Bank of the Missouri River.  Essentially, loess is dust that has been recompacted into soil.  It is easily eroded once channel cutting starts, and the present hills are the result of these processes.  <br />The book capably discusses these matters, and also addresses the biota and human history of the region.  You will be amazed at the variety of plants, going from chestnut trees to prickly pear cacti.  <br />The photos are helpful and pretty much follow the well written, well organized text.  The book closes with an examination of the efforts being made to preserve these landforms, and a plea to continue them.  I recommend this most interesting book for any traveler, geographer, or geologist, as well as anyone who lives in the Midwest.	2003-09-12
US	39773708	RKLIH5FNHQKZ6	0878424032	241745854	Ice Age Mammals of North America	Books	5	69	70	N	N	Absolutely Excellent, even if title is misleading	This book is the premier introduction to the Ice Age, and its now-extinct animals, for the uninitiated reader.  It is also an excellent work for the serious student or teacher.  The art work is superb, the photographs and diagrams are well chosen, and have the additional bonus of actually following the well-written, easily readable text.  This saves the reader the burden of having to leaf back and forth as the book is studied.  In short, whether you want to read about the Ice Age for serious study or just have pleasure learning about fascinating animals and times, this your book.<br />Now to content:  Although the book's title and cover seem to indicate it is about animals only, the first half of the book covers, in a lively, interesting fashion, the various ways the Ice Age may have started, what the glaciers did and how they form, move, and melt, what the climate was like, and a hundred other things that are necessary to truly understand what occurred during this significant period of geological time.  Well-chosen inserts explain particular matters.<br />The second half of the book covers the mammals of the Ice Age, with particular emphasis on those living in North America.  In addition to the inevitable mammoths and saber-toothed cats, such relatively unknown creatures as the giant short-faced bear, scimitar cat, American lion, Florida cave bear, shrub ox, giant camel, and stag-moose, among many others, are each afforded extensive treatment.  The section on toothless animals such as the giant armadillo, the various kinds of enormous ground sloth, etc., is simply one of a kind.  You will be amazed and thrilled as you read about each creature in turn, especially as to its size, its diet, where it lived, and its appearance.<br />The book closes, somewhat sadly, with a broad, yet concise examination on why many of these creatures went extinct so suddenly, and man appears to be a primary culprit.  Other potential causes are addressed as well.<br />A particularly finefeature is a comprehensive list of museums, parks, and sites across the United States where you may go to see the remains of these animals or learn more about them.  An excellent bibliography is supplied at the end.<br />I have read about, and been fascinated by, Ice Age animals for many years, and I can assure you this is the most enjoyable book I have ever seen on the matters I have discussed.  The information presented incorporates the latest studies, and is painstakingly accurate.  Authors Lange and Norton are to be highly commended on a great book.  I recommend it highly.	2003-09-09
US	39773708	R2RY46IQATUMJK	0801056772	697760281	Bones of Contention: A Creationist Assessment of the Human Fossils	Books	1	31	92	N	N	A waste of good paper	This is a good example of the typical self-delusion of creationism passing as serious thought.  All the book really proves in its pages is that if a person wishes something to be so badly enough, it will become so, but only in his or her own mind.  The stratigraphic &quot;evidence&quot; is selectively presented in a distortive, inaccurate fashion, so as to suit conclusions previously reached.  The serious reader on the subject is far better advised to read Kurten's &quot;Not From the Apes&quot;, and not some drivel like this book.	2003-09-02
US	39773708	R3ME650P08HWJW	0878424156	924650929	Glacial Lake Missoula and Its Humongous Floods	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A good view of glacial floods past.	This book is an extremely interesting study of the gigantic cataclysms caused when the ice dam holding back impounded  glacier-melt waters in western Montana's Lake Missoula would periodically burst.  The consequent outrushes repeatedly resculpted lands in northern Idaho, and eastern and central Washington, resulting in the curious, almost eerie, landforms covering much of that area today.  Excellent photography amply demonstrates these effects.  <br />Dr. Alt is a good writer, whose text carves a continuous, easily-followed thread that brings to life the events surrounding these floods, and their effects.  His enthusiasm is contagious.<br />This book should not be read alone, but in conjuction with the book, \\"Cataclysms on the Columbia\\", written earlier.  Any tourist going to the Northwest, and certainly natives of that wonderful region, will enjoy both books, and gain a valuable, lasting impression of this most peculiar part of the Earth.  Each book will give directions to the most spectacular phenomena as well.  I highly recommend each, but again suggest both should be read in conjunction.	2003-08-19
US	39773708	R3LLJATR3104HS	0915554224	232021273	Carolina Bays, Mima Mounds, Submarine Canyons and Other Topographical Phenomena: A Catalog of Geological Anomalies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very interesting catalogue of geological mysteries	William Corliss devoted his career to the advancement of science by categorizing and cataloguing mysteries that had not been adequately explained.  He felt this was the truest way to advance knowledge.  A reading of this most interesting, if somewhat dated, book will show that stimulation of curiosity is indeed a useful tactic in expanding knowledge.<br />Many of the matters Corliss discusses have now been solved or, conversely, disproven, but this does not detract from the wonder of the infinite variety of matters addressed.  The book covers all manner of things, from suspected giant impact craters to gopher holes in an endless kaleidoscope.  <br />Caveat:  Before examing the text on features discussed, you must carefully read the introduction to assure yourself that Corliss is not one of these aniti-science, New Age, people, but a serious scholarly writer.  This small effort will enormously increase your appreciation of his work.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-19
US	39773708	R1OTSX4XUV0W63	1886947163	587716519	Sand Dunes of the Great Lakes	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent  coverage of an amazing scenic resource.	This book is superb, and you will love it.  Done in coffee-table book style, the photography is spectacularly colorful, and accurate.  <br />The careful, caring text is evocative of many days I have spent wandering these lonely, yet intimate, wild regions of our Great Lakes.  Accurate to perfection in geological terms, the text further compliments the photography by elaborating on such things as rare plants and animals, unique weather, and human history of these places.  <br />This beautiful book , finally, serves as an enduring reminder that these dunes are fragile.  They need our continued stewardship, now and in the future.  <br />If you have seen these dunes, read this book before you do so again.  If not, this book will make you want to go climbing sand hills for sure.  Either way, you will be handsomely rewarded.	2003-08-19
US	39773708	R2SO7G413U5GCZ	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sign it out, but don't buy it	I read Winchester's, &quot;The Map that Changed the World&quot;, and so I came into this book with high expectations.  I was sorely disappointed. <br />Krakatoa's 1883 volcanic eruption was one of the most stupendous geological convulsions in recorded history.  Much has been learned about it in recent years, as volcanology has advanced.  Yet, coverage of these advances in science is sketchy at best.  <br />Rather, the book's chief thrust, if such a term can be used in rating a very disorganized text, appears to be a review of Dutch colonial policy and life in the latter part of the 19th century.<BR>Sketches of lives affected by the eruption are varied in quality, and, again, are scattered hither and yon, in no particular order, throughout the book. <br />A reader unacquainted with the history of this event may glean some information on several topics with which he or she is unrelated, but to persons who have previously read about the eruption, the book is a sad disappointment.  One is legitimately led to wonder if Winchester simply decided to hurriedly capitalize on his fame from his previous book. <br />I do not recommend the purchese of this book, but interested readers may wish to sign it out at a local library.	2003-08-19
US	39773708	R1S9EII97X3I1T	158574607X	599564468	The Forgotten Storm: The Great Tri-state Tornado of 1925	Books	4	12	14	N	N	An appalling disaster remembered	It has been extremely difficult to obtain a quality book on this massive weather event, and the present text solves that dilemma.  I would have preferred a few more pictures from areas other than Murphysboro, Illinois, and the discussion of meteorological factors was somewhat attenuated.  These quibbles aside, the book is a feeling, sensitive chronology of the most terrible tornadic event ever to strike the United States.  The stories of human suffering and courage in the face of this awesome convulsion of nature will sometimes reach to your marrow.<br />I liked the organization of the book, beginning with a few general introductory remarks, and then tracing the course of the tornado during its three and one half hour passage from Missouri to Indiana, narrating the horror of its fury at each point.  The author's own experiences in the storm. and its effects on his family and town, added flesh to the book, but did not overwhelm it.  I liked that.<br />I note that some reviewers have complained that the author has simply recycled old news accounts, but what better way to show how the neighboring towns, and the outside world, viewed this stupendous catastrophe?  I believe any readers interested in regional history of the Midwest in the early part of the last century, weather buffs, and many persons who simply enjoy a gripping account of man being outmatched by the elements will enjoy this book.	2003-08-19
US	39773708	ROUAE9WQK80R2	0816025908	203648384	Craters, Caverns and Canyons: Delving Beneath the Earth's Surface (The Changing Earth Series)	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Very disappointing and not recommended	Being a geology maven, I am loathe to pan a book on my favorite subject, but it must be done here.  This book is very amateurish, displays no sign of proofreading, and is horrendously inaccurate on any of a number of fronts.  The writer has utterly no idea of how to prepare a geographically accurate map of large-scale features, frequently misspells ordinary place names, makes great misstatements of fact, particularly in the area of lists of features, such as the names and diameters of meteoritic impact structures, and glosses over or ignores numerous fundamental geologic rules and precepts.<br />Up to now, I have had a tremendous regard for Facts on File as a publisher of books about the natural world, but the Erickson series is one that has slipped through the cracks of their quality control system, and this is one of the worst.  Don't buy this book, or take it out from your library, unless you want to be greatly misinformed and an ignoramus about geology and geological features.	2003-01-15
US	39773708	R1QSRAZTKC0Q0E	0071384464	194681587	Teach Yourself Volcanoes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The best volcano book for the layman, bar none	A good many folks have a passing interest in volcanoes, especially when a mountain like Kilauea or St. Helens erupts.  Yet, most books on the subject are either very dry and technical, or, equally bad, overly concern themselves with the human details of a particular event, leaving the science of the thing as an abandoned stepchild.  This excellent book suffers neither fault.<br />Simply put, if you want to learn the whys and wherefores of this most spectacular natural process, this is your book. The reading style is effortless, and not beyond the comprehension of anyone with a high school background in the sciences.  The illustrations and diagrams are carefully chosen to clarify or expand upon points in the text.  While reciting the individual and societal effects of volcanic activity, the book does not get bogged down in a welter of minutiae, and holds the reader's interest to the end. <br />The author has made every attempt to bring the text up to the state of the art in terms of scientific advances, and the reader benefits. Such concepts as plate tectonics, hot spots, and the like are well explained.  Finally, for readers who live in the Western U.S., or anticipate travelling there, the book explains and illustrates a number of landforms that might elude one's attention, but for reading this fine work.  <br />Upon concluding the book, the reader will have an understanding of volcanism, its landforms, and its effects on people superior to anyone, save a full-time geologist.  I enthusiastically recommend it to all readers.	2003-01-10
US	39773708	R2UWYDHW1D1Z4Z	1588720020	635598690	Crossing Over: The Stories Behind the Stories	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An interesting book for the skeptical	This is the first Edwards book I have read.  I must confess that I remain skeptical, if less so, perhaps, about the claims Edwards makes.  Nonetheless, the book is entertaining and engaging.  It points out the trials one who is challenging conventional wisdom must face, and does so in a mildly sarcastic, but charming way.  It is one of the few books on such topics that does not cast the protagonist as a messianic zealot, but simply a person with a gift that is desired to be shared.  For that, the reader should be grateful. The book narrates, and does not proseltyze.  The person who loaned it to me is, of course, a believer.  I cannot share that belief, but at least the book made me more open to literature on the subject, and for that reason, I would recommend it.	2003-01-10
US	39773708	R21DKIJ8YRBQ1O	0394978056	718733779	GIANTS LAND,SEA & AIR (A Sierra Club Book Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent book on ancient life forms	This book, although texted for the 10-15 yer old reader, is excellent enough to be enjoyed by readers of all ages.  It briefly examines all manner of large creatures, both extinct and living, and by full-color, scaled drawings, with a man and and woman for visualization, shows how truly huge such things as apatosaurs and blue whales really could be.  One of the interesting features is that each and every creature is drawn in the same scale, so such things as triceratops and modern rhinos, and mammoths and elephants and tyrannosaurs, may be compared.  You will receive some surprises.  I recommend this book to all readers.	2002-11-18
US	39773708	R1AI3SW40GJW4O	0762501081	966674323	Michigan County Atlas (State Atlas Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A very fine guide to Michigan's hidden roads	This book is a wonderful addition to any Michigan traveler's atlas collection.  The book's large format leaves its maps of each county free to set out backroads down to the smallest trail, which is done in most cases without error.  A few typos and mislabelings of smaller features exist, but they are rare enough that the overall quality of the work is not diminished.  I particularly like the &quot;hydrology&quot; feature, listing all county lakes, and the fact that each county's map shows, AND labels, border roads as they go into an adjacent county. <br />The book is not for one seeking to explore cities, but is magnificent for anyone who wants to go leaf-peeping, hunting, or make other use of Michigan's wonderful, colorful, more remote areas.  It is a four-wheeler's delight.  If you fit any of these categories, you will love this book and use it frequently.  It is a real bargain.	2002-10-30
US	39773708	R1DOOTR0K58ZSD	0811717003	989898433	Street Without Joy (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A classic history of an unknown war	The Vietnam War encompassed thirty years; 1945-1975.  The first nine years were fought between the French and the Viet Minh and, after the defeat at Dienbenphu, the French exited, defeated and demoralized.  This book is the best history of that campaign, bar none <br />Unlike many histories of conflicts, this effort by Dr. Fall is not so much a study of each battle, or a chronological log of the French Indochina War, as it is a series of fascinating vignettes.  The overall theme is a catalogue of the seemingly endless French tendency to underestimate the foe. <br />Included in the history of French military defeats, and occasional victories, are studies of such things as the role of women in the war and the decimation of a superbly equipped French task force by concerted, brilliantly conceived guerrilla activity by the Viet Minh.  The role of the French Foreign Legion is examined, as is the history of the French desire to seek a set battlefield, which of course, they got in Dienbenphu, to their regret.  The book ends with Dienbenphu and an epilogue.<br />Interestingly, the book was published in 1961, just as the United States was preparing to enter the conflict in South Vietnam.  Dr. Fall crisply and presciently points out the parallels between the views of the defeated French and the heedless, entering Americans.  Had the right people read and heeded this book, perhaps we would not have The Wall in Washington D.C. today.  <br />Ironically, Dr. Fall was killed in 1967 in Vietnam, when he stepped on a landmine.  This book at once serves as his memorial, and as a horrifying reminder of what happens when one side enters a war without understanding the culture, ethos, and motive of the other. <br />The book contains numerous black and white photos and maps, and is excellently written in every possible respect.  One cannot possibly understand the Vietnam War, including our history in it, without reading this landmark work.  It is a true work of genius, and receives the highest recommendation.	2002-10-30
US	39773708	R3V6O5JJ5QVU6S	0810929929	333967443	Stone Canyons of the Colorado Plateau	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An exquisite exploration of the Colorado Plateau	The number of photographic works exploring the nuances of the Colorado Plateau is seemingly endless.  Many can be browsed once and left behind.  This book is the scintillating exception.  <br />Jack Dykinga's photographic work is simply exceptional, and beyond the pale.   Each color photograph appears as exquisitely crafted as a piece of fine crystal, beginning with very cover of the paperback edition.  One can only envy his great patience and expertise in composing each work. <br />Much of the photography comes from the Paria Wilderness, an area of the Plateau not usually treated to any degree in most works, and the novelty is refreshing.  A particularly enjoyable facet of the book is that use of a telephoto lens has been largely eschewed, leaving a series of scenes that the enterprising tourist can find and view with his or her own eyes, just as depicted by the book. <br />Charles Bowden's accompanying text is evocative and hearkens a wild diffusion of images and memories of the fascinating region. <BR>It is an apt companion to Dykinga's superb work. <br />If you are limited to five or less books about the Colorado plateau, let this be one of them.  I enjoy it more every time I read it.	2002-10-30
US	39773708	R1TMZ128SPV6HX	0253147506	716110471	Legends of the Earth;: Their Geologic Origins	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A nice review of recent geological history	This book was released in 1973, and, even though dated in terms of developments in historical research, would remain a leading text in terms of explaining geological events of the past through mythology.  Of particular interest are the last three chapters, which address the multiple legends arising from the great Minoan volcanic eruption at Santorini in about 1500 B.C.  In addition, the book explores all manner of other legends, including the Deluge, the Mount Mazama eruption that created Crater Lake, etc. <br />A most refreshing aspect of this book is its scholarship.  The author totally avoids the drivel associated with such fiction writers as Whitney Streiber and Erik von Daniken. There is no invocation of imaginary aliens or manifestations of vengeful gods, etc., but only use of narrative from ancient peoples to explain things they could not understand.  For that reason, the book is valuable from a historian's perspective.  I highly recommend it.	2002-09-18
US	39773708	R15Q7FPDEH6X1O	0380480093	414825953	No Blade of Grass	Books	3	35	42	N	N	This could have been a great book, but....	Most apocalyptic novels are marked by spectacular explosions, loathesome invaders, or the like.  This one is not.  Instead, in a very believable scenario, a rice virus develops in China, and the Chinese government tries to keep it secret.  However, when the great famine develops, the UN comes up with an isotope that stops it.  But the cure is worse than the disease, for this allows an all encompassing grass virus to come out of hiding.<br />What follows is a civilization ending virus that kills all grasses, including all food grains.  So, in one swoop, livestock and grain are gone.   The Eastern hemisphere descends into famine and cannibalism.  In England, the site of the story, the government decides to use H-Bombs on the cities to alleviate the famine.   All well and good, and frighteningly believable. <br />But what isn't at all credible, and what detracts from the book is the tale of a few people who go into a small, secluded English valley to live on potatoes and root crops.  Except for a brief foray, the group faces no meaningful attack, and the book ends with the Western Hemisphere intact, and the valley's few survivors planning to build new cities.   The ending is a sop to the desire to give some hope where none would exist.  Personally, I much prefer George Stewart's much more honest approach in &quot;Earth Abides.&quot;	2002-09-07
US	39773708	R1C5FGSACMB90D	0716736519	937561877	The Earth in Turmoil: Earthquakes, Volcanoes, and Their Impact on Humankind	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent work for the layman	This is a book about geological hazards in the United States. The general focus is on the West Coast, if only because that is the most tectoncally active area.  Some color plates, and a few black and white photos, are included, but the primary emphasis is on a well-written text.  The book is highly readable and keeps one's attention throughout. <br />The authors begin their examination with a review of the Northwest, discussing both volcanic hazards and the lesser known, recently discovered, but far more dangerous hazard of a truly giant earthquake in that region.  Every citizen of that part of the United States should carefully peruse this section.<br />Attention then turns to California and the San Andreas Fault.  Author Sieh is a renowned expert on this transform fault, and thoroughly discusses the extensive research he and others have done on this peril.  Again, as with the Northwest, this section is very highly recommended.<br />The earthquake hazards of the Great Basin and the volcanic hazards of Yellowstone are examined in detail, as are mid-continent earthquake problems in the central Mississippi valley. The book also looks at potential East Coast earthquake and tsunami hazards. <br />The authors use particular care in explaining geologic termnology in an understandable manner, and this is rare and impressive.   Many books of this genre are deficient in that they either oversimplify the material at hand, leading to inaccuracies and potentially dangerous distortions, or by making geology appear so difficult that the reader with a non-scientific background becomes frustrated.  The authors have carefully avoided either pitfall, and the book has profited though such care.<br />If you live in the United States, you should own and read this book.  It may save your investments. or your life.	2002-09-07
US	39773708	R3V8VRPW3T53HK	0945092253	387048011	Fog and Sun, Sea and Stone	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A precious jewel of a book	Steve Crouch is that rarest of photographers: a true artist in the medium of photography whose writing skills are equally gifted.  You may need a dictionary at times to keep up with his lyrical flow of English, but, after all, isn't reading supposed to be a learning experience?  Don't be intimidated.  Crouch's precise English adds much to his description of one of the most beautiful places on the planet: the Monterey Coast and Big Sur of California. <br />Crouch became a resident of Carmel years ago, and begins his tale of the region with how that decision took place.  This delightful anecdote is followed by others equally evocative.  Mr. Crouch reviews the place itself, the human communities and their history, and closes with a fine, thoughtful epilogue. <br />The photography is in color, and absolutely outstanding.  In addition to the usual brilliant seascapes, forest and mountain vistas, etc, the author also offers a beautiful panoply of microphotography about local plants, houses, and the way of life in this Eden.  Here is an artist with a purpose.<br />I bought this book a while back.  I have since vacationed in the area four times. One of the delights is to attempt to catch things in the same photographic light as Mr. Crouch did.  Not an easy task, but, surely, the enjoyment lies in the attempt.<br />You will love this book from the moment you first see it.  Do yourself a favor and get it now.	2002-08-24
US	39773708	R2RH5VBJBLQETL	0912856114	894628412	Utah.	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An enticing book.	This is the first of two books by photographer David Muench about Utah, each entitled &quot;Utah&quot;.  It is the better of the two, because Muench hadn't yet come to rely so completely on photographih tricks and overuse of the telephoto lens.  In this book as opposed to its successor, the traveler/reader will actually see some photos of things he or she will recognize when the traveler arrives at the site. <br />The photographs are all in color and emphasize the touristic draws of the state, e.g. the National Parks, particularly Zion , Bryce Canyon, and Arches, and the national monuments.<BR>Little attention is paid to more out-of-he-way places such as the Escalante canyons and the San Rafael Swell.  Good pictures of Monument Valley and the Temple Square in Salt lake City are also present.  Again, however, the reader is cautioned that Muench's use of the telephoto lens may result in a pretty picture, but that the sight depicted will never be seen without one. <br />Hartt Wixom's companion essay is a compelling, evocative portrait of the courage and determination his Mormon ancestors used in making Utah their version of the Promised land.  It is well worth reading. <br />This book is worth having if picked up at a reasonable price.  It is a fine coffee table work.	2002-08-14
US	39773708	R38KKSSA0OBEA5	0932575072	194933512	Canyon Country	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful, evocative book on the Great Places.	Dewitt Jones is a master photographer.  His pictures capture the glow in the rocks that is so frequently referred to in conversations about the Colorado Plateau.  He seems to have just the right touch in bringing back memories of this wonderful region.  I can almost feel the chill morning air at Bryce Canyon, the heat in Zion, and the dust in Canyonlands.<br />Stephen Trimble is one of the finest of the younger Western author/naturalists.  As with Jones and his photographs, Trimble has a manner of expression that evokes nostalgia with every page.<br />The book is organized on the Navajo six directions: East, South, West, North, Zenith, and Nadir.  A seventh direction; the heart or center, is also discussed.  These reference are most appropriate, and it is fitting that the Navajo method of direction is used in discussing and photographing their home.<br />This beautiful book is one of the finest coffee table books I have ever seen.  You will enjoy it for countless hours, again and again.<br />Note: Don't cheat yourself by buying the paperback.  The hardbound version is infinitely better.	2002-08-14
US	39773708	R1OI9U9SZNQCWC	0140131612	78909561	Lake Wobegon Days	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A very accurate, droll look at small town life.	For anyone raised in a small Midwestern town, as I was, this book is fascinating.  It is dryly humorous, and never truly abrasive, as it wends its way through anecdotes of small town life and personal foibles.  If you're looking for Doestoyevskyan character studies, as one reviewer seemingly was, go elsewhere. But if you want te meet people, and institutions, that you loved, or scorned, or simply observed in passing, this is your sort of book.  You'll remember these folks and their stories a long time after you have forgotten more in-depth characters.<br />I have often said there are two books anyone wanting to know about life in a small town should read; Main Street, by Sinclair Lewis, and this book.  Main Street is negative in chief, whereas this book is wistful, gently amusing, and equally accurate, if not more so.  It is a very underrated work, and I recommend it most thoroughly.	2002-08-14
US	39773708	RCAR87EW2HD76	1558684239	698855945	Portrait of Utah (Portrait Series)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A pretty book about Utah	Utah deserves its PR-created title as &quot;The Best of the West&quot;.  When it comes to bright, even garish, multi-colored rock formations, canyons, mesas, arches, pillars, cliffs, and grottoes, Utah has no equal.   What would be a national park or monument in any other state is a feature whose name isn't even known to most locals here. From Zion to Dinosaur, and all points south and east, Utah is a scenic wonderland par excellence. <br />This is the second of two books, bearing the same title, by photographer David Muench.  Here, the companion writer is Ann Zwinger, the renowned Western naturalist.  Zwinger's writing, of course, is peerless.  In a brilliant essay, she captures the nature of this beautiful, but difficult, land and those who have settled it.  I commend it highly.<br />Muench's photography is another matter.  The subject matter is excellently chosen.  In this book, as opposed to its predecessor, Muench has left behind the obvious tourist magnets such as Zion and Bryce Canyon, to focus on such little known, but equally striking areas of beauty and wilderness, such as the San Rafael Swell, an area that could easily be a national park.  This is commendable.<br />However, as with most of Muench's work, undue emphasis is placed on use of the wide-angle and, particularly, the telephoto lens.  The result is pretty pictures, but ones that are deceptive to the traveler/reader.   No one is ever going to see, except through a telephoto lens, the things Muench shows in this book. You may detect that I don't care for this form of presentation, and you are right.   I would much rather see photographs by Ray Manley or Fred Hirschmann, who obtain items of surpassing beauty without visual distortion being necessary.<br />So, while the book is a nice loaner from a library perhaps, I was disappointed after having bought it.	2002-08-14
US	39773708	R2NLH8JPBOAYVZ	0151369046	376815768	The Great Dying/Cosmic Catastrophe Dinosaurs and the Theory of Evolution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very good book about the way of science.	This book is 16 years old, and somewhat dated by more recent discoveries, such as the Chicxulub meteor crater.  Nonetheless, Hsu's  excellence as an author/scientific historian and philosopher transcends this seeming defect to a great degree.  Although the book's ostensible subject is dinosaur extinction and its causation, it soon becomes apparent that the real messages address the whimsical way of evolution, and the misapplications of Darwinian theory.<br />Evolution is not a steady gradual process.  Instead, it proceeds apace until interrupted by a calamity such as a cosmic impact, enormous volcanic disturbance or climate change, or the like.  In such instances, writes Hsu, the list of survivors is a matter of good fortune, not design, and the process of new adaption and speciation begins all over once more.  So it was with the dinosaurs, and so it might be again.   It is impossible to divine a purpose or reason for such things.  The key is to accept them and to understand them, if possible.  Hsu's application of Oriental thought to the process is most enlightening.  His writing is informal, tight, and obviously very well thought out. <br />Hsu also addresses that perversion of the theory of evolution known as &quot;Social Darwinism&quot;.  It is carefully pointed out that Darwin NEVER intended his theories to become a basis for claims of racial or ethnic superiority.  Hsu then demonstrates not only the fallacy of such beliefs, but shows why Darwin would have been equally disapproving of them. <br />You don't have be a scientist or philosopher to read this book, but reading it will give you great insight into both disciplines.  I found it fascinating from start to finish, and would recommend it highly to anyone past their early teens.  It is a real keeper.	2002-08-14
US	39773708	R19E06VN2WCWHC	0452282993	743742812	The Future in Plain Sight: A Look at Our Planet in the Year 2050	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A very prescient,, important book	Author Linden's basic premise is that history fluctuates between periods of stability and instability.  The last half of the 20th century was stable.  The first half of the 21st promises to be anything but stable.  The book is tremendously well thought out, and persuasive.<br />Linden visits nine areas, including climate change, increased population and larger cities, resource depletion, environmental degradation, religious fundamentalism/fanaticism, economic instability, etc.  These analyses are then followed by realistic, but speculative, scenarios describing life in the event of the anticipated change.  Author Linden does an excellent job in avoiding the Cassandra-style, apocalyptic language so common to writers in this area.  Surely, the facts alone are sufficient, and Linden is to be praised for discerning the difference. <br />All are well done, but I was particularly impressed by the chapter on religious fundmentalism.  As Linden so carefully describes matters, this fundamentalism, Christian or Muslim, is a response to the scientific and economic uncertainty of today's society.  The true believer yearns to return to a simpler, more certain, time, and is perfectly willing to throw out the baby with the bath water to get it, including equal rights, scientific advances, better living conditions, etc.  Anyone skeptical of this statement is invited to consider Iran, the Taliban, Creationism, and the like. I have not found Linden's peer in describing the origin and effects of religious fundamentalism on society as we know it.  The whole book is more than worth it for this one chapter alone.  Every thinking person should read it.<br />In short, the book is an outstanding addition to anyone's library.  I recommend it very highly.	2002-08-13
US	39773708	R3VNWKW1G2RX90	0871563592	953893481	Nowhere Is a Place: Travels in Patagonia	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A fascinating book about a fantastic place.	This book is about Patagonia, the southern part of South America.  Windswept, cool, rainy or dry, depending on one's location, Patagonia is the uttermost realm of the Earth.  This book, out of many, is the best I have ever seen on the area. <br />The writers, Paul Theroux, and the late Bruce Chatwin, are both very well acquainted with the region,  Each writer has a differing style, and each writer's commentary therefore varies.  Yet, both harmoniously intertwine into a fascinating mesh. In addition to each capturing the essence of the land and the harsh climate in his own way, both writers present fascinating vignettes on Patagonian history, culture, and people. <br />You will learn about the origin of Patagonia's name, its role in Shakespeare's plays, its history of sheltering Welsh nationalism, its ground sloth fossils, Butch Cassidy staying in hiding there, its glaciers and fiords, etc., etc., etc. <br />All of this is superbly complimented by Fred Hirschmann's stunning color photography.  In four-color format, these photographs form the most excellent composite for a book since Eliot Porter's masterpiece on the lost Glen Canyon.  Again and again, I return to these photos for their inspiration and beauty.<br />Most of us will never visit Patagonia and taste the local calafate berry.  But if we can't, this book is the next best thing.   I prize this book very much and recommend it to the hilt.	2002-08-13
US	39773708	R2B7E4EFUYY8RB	0895779412	284738360	Our national parks (Reader's Digest)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the best National Park books	I have a rather extensive National Park library, and this book is one of the best.  It is much more comprehensive than most books of its genre.  Unlike many works on this topic, this volume avoids &quot;preaching&quot; about essentially political considerations and, instead, only  addresses the geology, biota, climate and features of the parks themselves.<br />The maps are very precise and get you where you want to go.  The color photographs and artwork are exceptionally beautiful.  It would appear they were chosen from a different lot than the ordinary David Muench telephoto variety.  This enables the reader to obtain an excellent grasp of what he or she may actually expect to see at each park.  The traveler is not deceived in arriving at the intended destination.<br />Each park, 52 in all, is covered separately, usually in a 4-8, or so, page text, admixed with photos, maps, and also drawings, if any.  The text is very well drafted, and easily moves the reader through the various features of each park, while simultaneously offering a great deal of useful back ground information.  Again, the traveler is given a very good idea of what to anticipate, and how to prepare for the visit. <br />My girlfrind and I have visited 37 National Parks over the years,  We have found this book, along with the National Geographic guide, to be the most useful works in preparing for each trip. Neither work has ever disappointed or misled us;  a rare feat in this day of careless proofing and poor research.  I value this book very highly.	2002-08-13
US	39773708	R725Z6L2QZQIL	B00005VCV7	603414505	America from the Road	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If you travel in America, you need this book	In a book that is regrettably out of print, Reader's Digest put forth a superlative effort to encompass the best drives in each state, together with discussion of listed attractions along them.  On a regional basis, beginning with the Northeast, each state, with exception of Delaware and some of the smaller New England states, is covered separately. <br />The map accompanying each state shows a clear highway diagram of the state, together with highlighted areas showing the subject routes.  The text for each route begins at a certain point on it, and follows the route back to the point of origin. Numbered paragraphs or sets of paragraph describe each number highlighted on the map for that route.  Excellent, beautiful, color photographs of certain, but not all, highlighted sites accompany each article and, in the Reader's Digest tradition,  do not distort what the traveler may expect to see.<br />When my girlfriend and I travel, we xerox copies of all routes we may expect to follow or cross in part.  by this expedient, we have a unique travel guide that has led us to a great many interesting, beautiful places we never knew about and would not have seen/ enjoyed without the aid of this fine book.<br />An introductory section to each region, East South, Midwest, etc., shows how the people farm and otherwise make a living.  Wildlife you might expect to see is discussed as well.<br />This book is an abslutely perfect microcosm of the things one can see and do in our wonderful country.  You won't see every interesting place or wander each beautiful drive, but this omission only serves to whet the appetite, not dampen it.<br />As the title of this review indicates, if you travel, you need this book.  Rated off the scale; a really good value and a great book.	2002-08-13
US	39773708	R24MCHSN0JIVZV	0936331003	852394812	Utah Canyon Country (Utah Geographic Series Inc)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bestcolor photos of the Colorado plateau anywhere	Author Barnes and Utah Geographic are to be commended for this truly fine work.  The color photos, by many of the areas's best photographers, were obviously selected with utmost care.  The colors are so real as to brng back memories of being RIGHT THERE.<BR>You can almost feel the heat and smell the dust. <br />Barnes' text is equally outstanding.  It seamlessly addresses the main features you will see, the strata sequences, and, in a series of sidebars, the book addresses such things as slot canyons, fossilized sand dunes, arches, mesas, and other features that confront the visitor.  Seemingly, nothing is<BR>omitted in this extraordinarily well-composed review.  <br />I bought this book several years ago at Arches national Park.  I used it all during that trip, and I continue to use it every time I go back to what I think is the greatest place on Earth.  It never has let me down.  'Nuff said.<br />Very highly recommended	2002-08-06
US	39773708	R2V32N4B7PBBOH	0874803721	26102720	Canyoneering: The San Rafael Swell	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A very good guide to a remote, wonderful place	The San Rafael Swell is a huge geological blister located in east central Utah.  It is crossed by several creeks and has numerous beautiful canyons, cliffs, mesas, slot canyons, and grottoes. It is also marked by spectacular cliffs of white Navajo sandstone, particularly on the east and southeast borders.  There are a few big arches in the Swell and a host of gargoyle rocks.  It's a place that, were it anywhere else, would be a National Park or Monument.  However, in the scenic wonderland that is southeast Utah, it's just another unexplored place for the most part.  Up to this book, the bulk of the Swell's publicity has come from occasional uranium strikes.<br />Author Allen has turned out a masterpiece. The book extensively covers all the things previously discussed, and a lot more, too. Especially interesting is the history of the region.  The maps and hikes/tours are clearly described, although I would have preferred measuring in terms of distance rather than time.   Quite obvious is Allen's enthusiasm for the place, an enthusiasm brought out in the text.  The pictures are good, but I would have preferred some of them in color, given the fantastic breadth of colorful formations in this region. <br />I used the book last May in a brief Jeep tour of the Swell, and found it to be very accurate.  I recommend the book highly to anyone who wants to see/explore this magnificent region.	2002-08-06
US	39773708	R1GX8TM17Y5W1C	0810928442	918168377	Volcanoes: Fire from the Earth (Discoveries)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A very good review of the history of volcanology.	This book was written shortly before the author's death in May, 1991.  He died in a pyroclastic flow from Mt Unzen in Kyushu, Japan.  Kraft's lifelong passion was volcanoes, and his wife, fellow volcanologist, Katia Krafft, who died with him, were  widely renowned for their skill and daring in obtaining the very best in photos of erupting volcanoes, and for their help to many in predicting eruptions and otherwise forwarding the science and popularity of volcanology.<br />This particular book traces the history of volcano study from rank superstition to the latest in science at the time of the author's death.  Numerous passeges from others' writings are set forth as part of a very well conceived and edited text.   Numerous color photographs, old etchings, and other photographic and artistic aids augment and explain the fine writing.<br />Volcano buffs, from the lay reader to the USGS expert, will appreciate and enjoy this book immensely.  Be one of them.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	RQNXHLB5K6LJQ	0671758535	842794510	The Japan That Can Say No: Why Japan Will Be First Among Equals	Books	4	18	22	N	N	A fiercely nationalistic book every American should read	This book was a million-seller in Japan, and was translated into English in 1991.  The author was a promininet Japanese politician.  The book is dated, and history has not always borne out the author's views.  Nonetheless, anyone attempting to understand modern Japan should read it.  Some of the passages will be very surprising and disturbing.<br />Author Ishihara avoids the conventionally polite Japanese protocol and forcefully states that Japan is the equal of the United States, that Japan should have its own defense forces, (and strong ones), that Japanese computer technology is second to none and should be used as a negotiating tool, and Japan will be the most influential power in dealing with Asian nations.<br />Ishihara berates America for racism, and contends that the atomic bomb was not used on Germany because Germans were white, and Japanese were yellow.  He asserts that nations colonized by Japan have been far more successful following liberation than those colonized by the United States.<br />The book exemplifies the growing trend toward national pride in Japan, and also forcefully addresses the feeling by many Japanese that their nation is misunderstood.<br />Plainly, the sentiments in the book foretell a troubled period in Japanese-American relations, and remind us that the Japanese have not forgotten Hiroshima any more than America has forgotten Pearl Harbor.  Ishihara's call for a constructive dialogue between the two nations is well taken.  Otherwise, the future looks cloudy at best.<br />Very highly recommended, even if slightly dated.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R12BYIHFGT12PX	1555212751	470202158	Game Fish of North America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fisherman's bible	This entertaining, informative book covers all main North American sport fish, both fresh and saltwater, in separate chapters as to species group, e.g. trout, catfish, tarpon, and so on.   The written text contains answsers to all FAQ's about each fish, including fishing techniques, lures, geographical range, size, fighting ability, etc., etc.  In short, this well-drafted book is a gold mine of information for the beginning angler or the experienced veteran.  The narrative contains colorful anecdotes as well as more standard material and can be enjoyed by anyone.   Sharp, clear, dramatic color photos closely follow the text, and add a good deal to it. <br />I recommend this book highly to one and all.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R3EUY3NCFFM6ZM	9994946315	15799849	Wild Animals of North America	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An excellent review of North American mammals	This book is a fine review of the many families of North Anerican mammals and of their individual members.  From shrews to whales and from opossums to man, this book is encyclopedic in sweep, yet easily grasped by all readers.  The photography in many instances is esceptional. and the descriptions and discusssion are scientifically impeccable.   Good descriptions on habitat, diet, bahavioral traits, and much more are included. The book includes a unique section on exotic mammals brought here by the hand of man.  <br />I highly recommend this book to both the interested layman and the professional.  It is a valuable addition to any outdoorsman's library and excellent for children as well.  An exemplary effort, National Geographic!!	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R2UXMQWY2NQ4YG	0764119699	364197520	Raging Planet: Earthquakes, Volcanoes, and the Tectonic Threat to Life on Earth	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A splendid guide to tectonic hazards	This book is a five-star summation of the numerous tectonic hazards faced by human civilization.  It is impressively written and contains numerous, informative color photographs and diagrams.  Each discussion is separated and encapsulated into a mini-chapter; a format I find facilitates depth of understanding.  Target Earth!, by Duncan Steel, covering impact hazards from asteroids and comets, is similarly well organized.<br />The book is very up-to-date in terms of the science involved.  The discusssion of the mega-tsunami hazard from La Palma volcano in the Canary Islands is especially impressive, and frightening. <BR>The entire United States East Coast is threatened by a landslide and giant tsunami from this volcano.  All such cities will be destroyed if the worst case scenario takes place. <br />While the world very likely is not going to end tomorrow, it can be greatly readjusted by powerful tectonic forces leaving great destruction in their wake.  Anyone interested in geology or geophysics, or living in a tectonically active area should read this book closely.  The same goes for any coastal dweller, with respect to tsunami threats. <br />I recommend this book very highly.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R2KB1OD2ZVM1HH	0945005148	410991240	Paricutin: The Volcano Born in a Mexican Cornfield	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An excellent, highly detailed text on volcanology	Paricutin was a cinder cone born in a Mexican cornfield in 1943.  This book is its story, from the time of its birth until it became extinguished.   Worth the price of admission alone are several photos taken at the time it first came up in the field. Ihave been a volcano buff for over 50 years and I have never seen anything to match them for sheer excitement.  The book contains hundreds of photos, most in black and white.<br />The book is for those experienced in volcanoes, and would not serve well as an introductory volume for those unacquainted with this phenomena.  Some scientific background is necessary to fully assimilate the information the book contains.  I do not mean to say that an informed layman would not enjoy the book  He would. For anyone interested in geology, or even more narrowly, volcanoes, though, the book is a masterpiece.  It is also a good study for the anthropologist or sociologist interested in how persons and groups not versed in technology confront and live through geological cataclysms. <br />The book also contains interesting chapters on other cinder cone eruptions in recent history, including ones in Mexico, New Guinea, and Italy.   The discussion and photos regarding these other cindercones, is shorter, but uniformly excellent. <br />I would rate this a college-level book, but I recommend it very highly to anyone interested in the subject matter.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R1043ZM0JJPHO4	0792274733	364015409	Crossing America: National Geographic's Guide to the Interstates	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A great little travel guide that you need.	Since most vacations involve some travel on the Interstates,  a book that covers them is indispensible.  This is that book.  It is pocket-sized for easy carrying and jam-packed with useful information. <br />The book covers all major freeways, and has over 600 full-color photos and maps carefully selected to closely follow a well-written and well-organized text.  An excellent feature is that the discussion of each Interstate begins at one end of the road and terminates at the other.   This enables the traveler to briefly review the book at day's end to plan the following day's activities.  The book shows and discusses National and local parks, museums, historical sites, and major cities along each road.<br />This book is an excellent way to capture the varied geography of the continental United States in a nutshell.  You will be amazed at the things you discover and at how many interesting places are near where you live.  Obviously, I recommend this book very highly	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R3LK635N5388VA	076210113X	900793611	The World's Most Mysterious Places (The Earth, Its Wonders, Its Secrets)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simply an excellent work for anyone's library.	This book is written somewhat on the order of Reader's Digest's Natural Wonders of the World.  It covers several hundred mysterious places, such as Easter Island, Stonehenge, Maya ruins, Jericho, Machu Picchu, Angkor Wat, Mesa Verde, the Bermuda Triangle, etc.  Many lesser known, equally interesting places are covered as well.  <br />The format is a simple title heading followed by a page or less written description, usually in great detail.  Each heading is generally accompanied by one or more color photos that seem to have been carefully selected. <br />I have been fortunate enough to visit many of the places discussed, and I assure you that the writing is so evocative of their appearance as to bring back a host of fond memories.  Even though the book went out of print rather quickly, for reasons I cannot understand, it is a prize, and I believe it can be enjoyed thoroughly by teen readers and higher.  Archeology buffs will go wild over it.  I recommend it highly.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R2MJ4NMM0MQP5	1882054075	769965018	Heart of the Desert Wild	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A magnificent guide to a part of the best place on Earth	I am a Colorado Plateau freak who probably has better than 50 books on the area, and who has taken at least a dozen vacations to the area.  Of all of my own books and some I don't own, but have read on the area, this is one of the very best.<br />The Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument was created in 1996.  It was long overdue.  The monument (And it should be a full-fledged National Park, IMHO.), preserves the most single significant block of Cretaceous strata in the world, numerous exquisite arches and slot canyons of exceptional size and beauty, tremendous geological faults, colorful, spectacular rock formations, fossilized animals and plants, and irreplaceable Native American relics and structures.  The area is still being explored and more of these and other wonders are being located each year.<br />This excellent book covers all of these matters and more in considerable written detail. Magnificent color photography follows the text and lays open this wonderful country for all to see.  The text is carefully drafted, and the photos follow the text very well.<br />If you never have the good fortune to visit this area, this book will give a very fine glimpse into the need for its preservation.  If you have visited it, as I have, the book will evoke countless pleasant memories.  IF YOU ARE GOING TO VISIT IT, for the first time, or on a repeat basis, read this book thoroughly to make intelligent decision about what to see and do, since you can't possibly see it all in one trip.<br />This book receives the highest recommendation.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R1T6QW8TCIQWH2	0060930632	243252492	Mind of the Raven	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A fascinating read about an amazing bird.	This is my first Bernd Heinrich read.  It will not be the last.  The author is simply one of the best at translating his very considerable scientific expertise into readable, entertaining narrative that is easily understandable, entertaining, and enjoyable.<br />This particular book examines the intelligence of ravens, birds that some disdain to their eternal error.   Primitive peoples, who were far closer to nature than ourselves, readily understood and appreciated the cunning, slyness, and outright cognitive ability and reasoning possessed by the remarkable raven.  Numerous legends, including Biblical references, prove the point. Heinrich refreshingly shows how scientists are rediscovering these traits, at long last.  <br />I am no expert on birds or avian science, but I am a country boy who spent a good many hours watching birds in action.  Ravens were always interesting to me, and are far more so after reading this wonderful book.  I would have appreciated more photos and diagrams, but this is a minor quibble.   I recommend the book highly, and urge you to read it.  You will be continualy amazed, and the book will hold your attention to the end.	2002-08-05
US	39773708	R2LEMDWFAHJVJY	0835121852	570054871	Exploring the Yangtze: China's Longest River	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A wonderful book about a great river	The only reason I don't rate the book higher is that it is a bit dated.   With some rivers or places, this doesn't make a lot of difference, but in light of the gigantic dam now being built at Three Gorges, some of what is written here is becoming obsolete. <br />This brief quibble aside, the book narrates a wonderful journey by the author from the very foot of the Yangtze to its ultimate source in Tibet.  In conducting this journey, the author discovered and photographed the true source of what is now known to be the world's third longest river.  The four-color photos are amazingly good, even breathtaking, particularly as one approaches the Source.  They closely follow a very well-written text that seamlessly moves the reader upstream as the book goes along.  The book is worth having if for no other reason than the photos, some of which excellently preserve the area that will be flooded by the Three Gorges dam.<br />I would be remiss if I didn't note the author's evocative writing regarding the spiritual aspects of his journey.  It is comparable to Peter Mathiesson's works.  This theme is found in a subdued manner throughout the book, but approaches the lyrical as the author finally becomes the first person to discover and approach the true Source.  When he finally finds the tiny spring in Tibet that begins a river that feeds and transports more than a quarter-billion people in its basin, well, I must leave the reading of that conclusion to you.  To me it was very beautiful .<br />I recommend this book very highly and urge you to consider its purchase.  I believe you will enjoy as much as I did.	2002-08-03
US	39773708	RE0XLGNSZS52D	0895770873	861928063	Reader's Digest Natural Wonders of the World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It's simple. This is a book you really ought to get.	This book is out of print, and that's too bad.  It lists over 200 places around the world, most of them natural features, that are truly amazing.   Some are large, (Antarctica), some are small and very remote (Rabbitkettle Hot springs in the Northwest Territories.).   While North America may have a few more items listed, even Africa has it s share, including many little known waterfalls and mountain ranges.   I was a geography major in college, and I was stunned at how many of the overseas phenomena I had never even heard of before.  The book is a continuing voyage of discovery. <br />The descriptions of each feature are factually excellent and well written.  The photographs are all in color and excellent.<BR>The maps supplied, in some, but not all, instances are clear  and well drafted. <br />Your world will be much broader and more full once you obtain and read this excellent volume.  Don't even try it all at once.  Just leisurely peruse a few items each time, and your sense of wonder and beauty will grow each time you do.  Very, very highly rated.	2002-08-03
US	39773708	R27IHUCXIONW4Q	0195217543	562835951	Volcanoes of Europe	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An excellent tour of varied volcanoes and landscapes	This is an excellent review of nearly all European volcanoes.  The non-Ring of Fire volcanic provinces have received very little attention on a regional basis.  This book fills a large gap in non-professorial texts/trade books on volcanoes and volcanology.<br />Volcanoes of Europe covers the volcanic provinces of Italy, Greece, the Canary Islands, the Azores, Iceland and Jan Mayen, and the dormant regions of France and Germany, in turn.  Most photos are black and white, but an excellent section of color prints adorns the middle of the text.  The photos are carefully chosen to demonstrate phenomena mentioned in the chapter.<br />The writing is ably done, and well-organized.  The history of each volcano is meticulously researched,  and accompanied by an excellent bibliography.  As my lists will show, I have been a volcano freak for some years and I probably have 80+ books on the subject, some technical, many not.  This is one of the best.<br />I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in volcanoes, regional geographers and geologists, and others who enjoy the study of our Earth and its processes.  This book is a real keeper.	2002-08-03
US	39773708	R1U5B7ZHCQOY9E	0156007037	690595801	Night Comes to the Cretaceous: Comets, Craters, Controversy, and the Last Days of the Dinosaurs	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An excellent book on the workings of science	From the standpoint of scientific fact, this book gives a generic description of the giant Chicxulub meteorite impact structure, its genesis, and the consequences of that genesis; the extinction of the dinosaurs and thousands of other species in a geologic heartbeat. An excellent book-wide discussion attends the determination of the necessary proofs for what, at the time of its origin, was an extraordinary, heretical theory.  Author Powell's review of the background science is thorough and unbiased, and is delivered in a readable, easy-to understand manner.  The tempo of the book is seamless and non-distractive. <BR>In short. for the reader who simply wants to learn about the reason behind dinosaur extinction, the book is highly recommended, without more.<br />The book is far more significant and insightful in other respects, however.  It would serve as a singular text for anyone interested in the history and maturation of ideas, particularly in the scientific realm.  Author Powell is simply peerless in demonstrating the difficulty proponents of successful new scientific theories face in having those ideas accepted in the face of long-standing, inflexible orthodoxy.  <br />Powell carefully shows the genesis of the Alvarez' impact theory of extinction, as well as cataloguing the tenacious resistance to it.  Not only paleontologists, but even some geophysicists, opposed the impact theory of extinction and ridiculed both the theory and its proponents.  In the end, however, the sheer weight of demonstative evidence has carried the day for the Alvarez' ideas. <br />Even as this review is written, however, there are those who deny the the dinosaurs went extinct owing to a catastrophic impact.  See Discover magazine's June 2002 issue.  Whether the asteroid collision was the SOLE cause seems to be the only bone of contention now. <br />Perhaps the most poignant character in this ongoing debate is Charles Officer, a Dartmouth geophysicist.  Officer has stood steadfast, in face of increasing evidence to the contrary, as an opponent of the impact/extinction theory.  As the book was written, some of his arguments had even reached the point of Creationist-style dogma, brought on by his refusal to yield.   Powll presents the tale of Officer's resistance as not being negative, but indeed, positive, in that it forced the impact proponents to a vigorous reexamination and stronger proofs.<br />Any history or science student should read this book.  In reading this work, one can gain greater appreciation for the trial and tribulations such scientific pathfinders as Galileo, Newton, Wegener, Bretz, and Shoemaker have faced in advancing our knowledge and understanding of our world, and our place in it. <br />Unhesitatingly, I give this book a five-star rating, and would even more highly recommend it, were I able.	2002-07-30
US	39773708	R3UDRFZR20UZY0	0762102985	877463882	Target Earth	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good introductory book on impact science, but,........	I would have given this book a five-star rating, inasmuch as it is an excellent intorduction to the area of between cosmic objects and the Earth.  It is well-organized, and the many color photographs and drawings are among the best I have ever seen in this area of scientific endeavor.  Reader's Digest and author Steel, an Australian astronomer, are to be complimented highly.<br />The book excellently summarizes the history of impact studies, including discussions of asteroids, comets, impact features on other worlds, and contains a sterling chapter on impact features on the Earth, both recent and ancient.  It ends with a discussion of the danger from such events in the future, and of the means that might be used to prevent such a catastrophe.  The book is readily understandable for someone with a limited scientific background, and is probably the best trade book of its kind.<br />That much being said, I was a bit put off at the constant drumming of a questionable theme, i.e., that the Earth is imminent danger of another such collision at any moment.   This past century marks two large impacts, both in Siberia, which the book covers very well, and two possible events in South America.   None caused known casualties, and to extrapolate from this a contention that cities may be vaporized almost any day is a bit far-fetched in my estimation.  It COULD happen, of course, but global warming, etc. seem much more in need of immediate attention. <br />Author Steel was head of an Australian project to spot near-Earth objects, and his pique at the cessation of the program for lack of funds seems to pervade this work.  Also, there are typos that are sometimes significant, such as mislocation of certain features, and the like.  Having so kvetched, I would still recommend the book highly, but for the above reasons, I cannot give it a five-star ranking.	2002-07-25
US	39773708	R1X7V48QER9571	0792270339	286440291	Park Profiles: America's Hidden Treasures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lesser-known National Parks, a fine introduction:	Biscayne, Katmai, North Cascades, Guadelupe Mountains, Voyageurs, Theodore Roosevelt, Channel Islands: Not seven of the best-known National Parks to be sure.  But each is eminently deserving of inclusion into the system of &quot;Nation's Crown Jewels&quot;.  This book shows why.<br />In a well-drafted, readable, interesting text, accompanied by excellent National Geographic photography, the ins and outs of each named park, including highlights, topography, natural features, climate, hazards, and accessibility are brought out in an imaginative, pleasant manner. <br />Each park is shown to be a microcosm of a facet of the American wilderness, and each chapter makes you want to visit that park.  I have been to Theodore Roosevelt and Biscayne.  both were fascinating, and this book helped whet my appetite.  I was never misled.<br />This is a real keeper for any traveler's national park library.<BR>Five stars.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	R25S4XADYW6HGA	0792273532	721315316	Canyon Country Parklands: Treasures of the Great Plateau (National Geographic Park Profiles)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very good overview of the Colorado Plateau region	I am a Colorado Plateau freak, I must confess.  As this book so excellently shows, every nook, every niche of that region is festooned with some new, arresting wonder, or so it seems. <br />Canyon Country Parklands is first remarkable for its photography.  I have seldom seen the essence of this beautiful region captured so well.  Indeed, many of the photos catch that magical light that seems to leap from the rock walls themselves.  Even those parks long photographed, such as Zion National Park, attain a new height in beauty through the pictures in this book.  A magnificent effort!!<br />The text is very readable and captures much of the magic of this region as well.  I especially recommend the sections on Plateau wildlife and on the High Plateaus.  The maps are also useful in reconnoitering one's position in this never-ending tableau of light and rock.  You will enjoy this book to hilt, and its reasonable price makes it a remarkable bargain.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	R29EYBB750XR7G	0792273540	191010432	Park Profiles: Our Inviting Eastern Parklands	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent park guide	The Eastern United States is underrepresented in terms of national parks.  The early settlement and development of our country precluded some sites, like Niagara Falls, from inclusion.  But others, thankfully, made it.  This book covers them.  As to the Great Smokies and the Everglades, so much has been written about them that this book offers an overview many will have read in the past at another source.  <br />However, as to the two new Florida National Parks, Biscayne and Dry Tortugas, this book is an invaluable resource.  Our trip to these two outstanding areas this past spring was made much better by previous reference to this book.   Both are marvelous additions to the national park system, especially in terms of marine life, a factor well covered in this book. <br />Fine, capably selected photography attends an excellent text.  For the mentioned parks, as well as Acadia and Shenandoah, I can think of no better single text.  This book is a real keeper.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	RGU1N8P291DC	0792270282	525533263	National Geographic's Guide to the National Parks of the United States: Third Edition (National Geographic Guide to National Parks of the United States)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You need this book, period.	Fifty-five national parks are covered in this wonderful little book, which is knapsack-sized for easy storage and reference.  <br />Capably written and photographed, this guidebook answers nearly all FAQ's about all National Parks except Cuyahoga Valley and Grat Sand Dunes.   If you want to know where to go, what to expect to see when you get there, the route to take, where to stay, what kind of weather you will encounter, what hazards to expect and prepare for, etc., etc., this is where you should look. <br />'Nuff said, except to note that I give the book a well-deserved five-star rating.  Buy it and enjoy.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	R1RFCS9JIBYJG3	0792272110	279901825	National Geographic Guide to America's Hidden Corners	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Here's a great book about some not well known great places.	Although you could probably find books on the Four corners, the Gulf Coast, the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Chesapeake Bay, the Great Basin, the Ozarks, and the badlands/prairies of the Upper Midwest, it would take you a very long time, and a lot of money to find books covering these regions as well as they are covered in this single book.<br />As usual, the National Geographic photographers have done an excellent job, particularly with the Upper Peninsula and the Four Corners.<br />The text is simply excellent.  The writers rhapsodically catch the essence of these lesser appreciated pieces of the American fabric, and of the lives of their inhabitants.  I enjoyed this book for weeks after it came in the mail.  I still do.  This is truly an unqualified five-star book.  Get one ASAP.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	R8JXWHBWYO2Z3	0792273648	264214856	National Geographic GD to the State Parks of the United States	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A fine guide to many hidden gems.	For the most part, our country's most spectacular natural sights are in our national parks. However, the discerning traveler can also find much to admire and photograph in our many fine state parks.. This book covers some of the best from each state. Some would even be in the national park system if not already protected by the states. <br />The usual excellent National Geographic photography attends a fine, readable text. Maps show you where to go and how to get there. I really believe that anyone planning a motor trip should consult this book before drawing up an itinerary. Otherwise, you run the risk of missing much that is great in our country. <br />A definite must for the traveler. I recommend it very highly.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	RZ73XD46F3GGF	0895770091	946570679	Reader's Digest Scenic Wonders of America	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Even if dated, an invaluable travel guide	If you are planning a trip in the United States, this is your book.  Most areas of the country are covered.  The chief attraction in a region, e.g. Sleeping Bear Sand Dunes, is covered in detail, followed by paragraph-or-so sketches of 15-20 other sites within traveling distance of the main attraction.  Good color photos attend the main attraction and some, but not all, of the secondary attractions are also photographed.  <br />The book is well-organized and capably written.  I have planned numerous trips using this book as a main reference.   Had I not had access to the book, my girlfriend and I would have missed a great many interesting, beautiful, and educational places in this great land of ours. <br />Even though the book is now dated a bit, most of the listed attractions are natural ones, and so the age of the book is irrelevant to a great degree.  I prize the book highly and strongly suggest its purchase.	2002-07-23
US	39773708	R6K59AJJHV767	0806505036	443538232	Baroque Chess Openings: Or, How to Play Your Betters at Chess	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The game usually goes to the craftiest	Chess being a mental game itself, it necessarily follows that its devotees enjoy mind games when facing opponents.  This is an excellent book for such folks.   I recommend it highly.    The book covers one offense, the Dutch Stonewall Reversed, and two defenses, The Black Dragon variation of the Sicilian Defense (for playing against a King Pawn opening), and the Queen's Indian, for playing against a queen pawn opening.   It explores only these three openings, no more.  It is the author's theory, and my own, that it is better to be able to play a few variations very well than a great many variations badly.     Few people see the Dutch Stonewall Reversed.  It is a strong, fluid offense, and frequently takes even expert players by surprise.  Many times, the so-called superior player recovers too late.  AHA!    The two defenses are somewhat more commonly seen, but each has the virtue of shifting momentum to Black in the event of the slightest error by White.  Again, that's what any player wants.    The book is eminently readable and fun.  It explains the nuances of the three openings and shows you how to play them without drowning you in notation or sterile analysis.     This book has given me a lot of pleasure, and has allowed me to beat players who were easily superior to me under normal circumstances.   You will enjoy it a lot.  It's not for the real beginner, but you don't have to be Nimzovitch or Fischer, either.   Enjoy.	2002-07-22
US	39773708	R3CU5WJAEK3YL5	0831773812	808206687	Redwoods: The World's Largest Trees	Books	4	28	29	N	N	An excellent book on a wonderful work of nature	There are three types of redwoods; the sequoia, the coast redwood of California, and the smaller dawn redwood of China.  Like cycads and some other rare or endangered trees, redwoods are a relic of the Age of Dinosaurs, when they proliferated around the globe.  Now they are confined to relatively small sections of the world.  They are still capable of reducing all but the most cynical into a quick, silent state of awe. <br />In a well-organized book, capably and eloquently written, author Hewes brings the biology, history, and ecology of all three varieties home to the reader in a seamless, continually interesting fashion.  The admirable text is accompanied by excellent historic and modern photos, some of which are heartbreaking.   Examples include clear-cut areas of redwood forest and the senseless cutting and dismemberment of the most perfect sequoia, the Mark Twain tree. <br />The author manages to present all facets of the conservation controversy without taking sides, preferring to let the facts speak for themselves, a rare accomplishment in this Age of Advocacy.  Hewes is to be commended for this even-handed approach. <br />No one visiting Sequoia, Kings Canyon, Yosemite, or Redwood National Parks should go without first reading this book.  It will answer nearly all FAQ's about these fascinating plants from the Mesozoic, and will truly enhance any such trip. I recommend it very highly.	2002-07-15
US	39773708	R17D5YOS0BD0GR	0893814229	257708101	Madagascar: A World Out of Time	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A brilliant, photoessay about a wonderful place	Madagascar is bigger than Texas. This fourth biggest island in the world, also known as the \\"Eighth Continent\\", is located 200 miles off Southeast Africa. It's as remote from the United States as you can get. <br />In an absolutely scintillating, evocative photo essay, prominent wildlife and nature photographer Frans Lanting explores the essence of this little-known land. Lanting's four-color photographs, in large format, are almost surrealistic at times, ever exciting, and never repetitive. From the cover onward, the show chameleons, lemurs, bottle-shaped baobab trees, needlepoint karst landscapes, eroded fields, and matchless vistas in an unending procession of the strange, eerie, and beautiful. You will be amazed as each page turns to the next. An excellent written narrative compliments the effort well.<br />The title is double-edged for, as well as being a fascinating anachronism, Madagascar is running out of time in our generation. Human encroachment is rapidly destroying the habitat of numerous creatures found nowhere else. The Elephant Bird, Aepyornis, whose giant egg is being held in a man's arms in the book's cover photo is gone. So is the giant lemur. Others may soon go, as well. This was, and would be, an unspeakable tragedy.<br />So read the book and enjoy. Then see what you can do to save at least some of this fascinating paradise. <br />I rate this book very highly.	2002-07-15
US	39773708	R1O380TE156LS9	0806121432	328346478	In Search of Butch Cassidy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Old West ends not with a bang, but a whimper	Robert Leroy Parker, a/k/a Butch Cassidy, the last famous outlaw of the Old West, vanished in Bolivia, according to many.  This riveting book of real Western history shows otherwise.   <br />In a work evidencing considerable personal research and scholarship, Larry Pointer shows, beyond all but the most skeptical doubt, that Butch was not killed in Bolivia, unlike the Sundance Kid, Harry Longbaugh, but that Butch returned to the United States after having some reconstructive surgery, married, and then took an alias, Harry T. Phillips, and lived a somewhat respectable life until dying of cancer in Spokane in 1937.<br />The book is replete with anecdotes by witnesses, photographs, quotes from a manuscript started by Harry T. Phillips, and other physical evidence to show that Harry was, in fact, Butch Cassidy, and that his actions, especially in later life would not have occured unless he was Butch Cassidy.<br />The book is well written, well organized, nostalgic, and poignant.  It paints a picture of a man out of time who assumed a different, if frustrating, life.   It starts a bit slowly, but once it takes root in your consciousmess, cannot be put down until its too-soon finish.  I prize the book, and rate it highly.  I believe any student of the Old West will do likewise.	2002-07-15
US	39773708	R2BKNIYG3LIGU4	0812930843	304308816	Modern Chess Openings: MCO-14 (McKay Chess Library)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good addition to your Chess library	I purchased this book about a year ago.  I have found it very useful in keeping my chess game sound and up to date.  I was particularly pleased with the analysis of the Benko Gambit, inasmuch as my previous books had not addressed that tactic.  The book contains analyses of other recent developments, as well.<br />With reference to more traditional openings and defenses, the book does not measure up to Horowitz: Chess Openings: Theory and Practice, so far as I am concerned.  The variations of each opening, as well as theit nuances and theories, are simply not as thoroughly explored and explained.<br />This book is a good work for the serious player, but I would obtain and read Horowitz' book first.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R14S48NKNBF7LQ	0962976113	119957830	Betrocks Guide to Landscape Palms	Books	5	31	32	N	N	a necessary guide to anyone who likes palms.	Being a Michigander, I was not familiar with palms other than by appearance. When I took a Florida vacation two years ago, I went to a farm near Miami that exhibited all sorts of tropical crops, and found this excellent book.<br />Anyone desiring to acquire one or more landscape palms should consult this book as a crucial first step.   The first of three sections covers nearly all landscape palms in an encyclopedic fashion, complete with one or more fine color photos of each described species.   Each palm is also reviewed in terms of its salt and drought tolerance, soil, nutritional, and light requirements,  its appearance and size, its uses, and whether it has irritants to people.  Also addressed are the pests the plant may be expected to confront, and how the plant propagates itself. <br />The second and third sections of the book, although a bit redundant at times, cover much of the foregoing material in general, and also offer more photos.  Climate maps and nicknames are also included, as are excellent material for diagnosing illnesses or deficiencies in palms. <br />Although I am not presently a resident of Florida or any other tropical or subtropical area, I think anyone who lives in such a region, whether it be a professional horticulturalist or a do-it-yourself landscape architect, would be well served by having and reviewing this book frequently.   I rate it highly.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R2Q4BWN06UFLGB	1560982209	982256234	Cycads of the World:  Ancient Plants in Today's Landscape	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A fascinating journey to plants of yesteryear.	Today's cycads are but relics of a worldwide population that flourished during the Mesozoic Era.  Although superficially similar to palms, cycads are not flowering plants, and have a much more primitive structure.  Many cycads have become inceasingly rare because of limited habitat and human encroachment.  Only in recent years have people become aware of the great aesthetic value of cycads and incorporated them into gardens and lawns as useful, ornamental plants. <br />This book covers the worldwide variety of cycads in encyclopedic fashion.  Beginning with a distribution map, the first half of the book introduces the history of cycads, their conservation and propagation, and their biology, structure, cultivation, and economic importance.  Pests and diseases are also addressed.<br />The second half of the book addresses the different genera and species in turn, with an understandable, easily read text and good photos of each plant in its native state.  The discussion covers plants in all areas of the tropics.  <br />Anyone deciding to select a different form, or forms, of cycad cannot let this book go unread.   Even if the reader lives in a climate where cycad cultivation is difficult or impossible, the book is an extremely interesting read about plants the dinosaurs lived near every day.  Any person with an interest in botany will treasure ths book.   I recommend it very highly.<br />NOTE:  I am reviewing the 1993 edition.  A revised edition is coming out in August, 2002.   I will buy  it immediately.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R5EAFQZW9NP3Q	0671205536	435985160	Chess Openings: Theory And Practice	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The one absolutely essential chess book.	I have had my copy of Horowitz for over 30 years.  I don't think one can truly learn to play competent chess without reading it. Although outdated in some resects, the book is really timeless.  The notation is traditional, not algebraic, but I prefer it that way. <br />Horowitz' work is peerless in examining the theories and nuances of each opening.  His games are well-selected, and each offers a slightly different viewpoint into even the most pedestrian of openings.  All significant openings as of 1960 are covered.<br />Horowitz has a gift unmatched by other chess authors in terms of enabling the reader to see what has already been accomplished, AND what remains to be accomplished in each variation.  The reader thus becomes a participant, not merely a rote memorizer. <br />I prize my tattered, dog-eared, scribbled-upon copy of this book almost more than any other book that I own.  My recommendation is off the scale.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R1B5W3T3EH4U0Y	1559710780	739667991	Autumn Leaves: A Guide to the Fall Colors of the Northwoods (Northword Nature Guide Collection)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the most pleasurable books  I have.	Despite its small size and paperback format, this is one of my most treasured books.  I am a resident of Michigan, and the fall is always a highlight of our year.  Michiganders, as an army, await autumn leaves and &quot;leaf peeping&quot;, as young children await Christmas morning.  This is the ONLY book I've ever seen that really gives its reader a good understanding of this beautiful phenomenon. <br />The first 17 or so pages give a physical, chemical, and biological discourse on why leaves change, and on what goes into the makeup of the various colors.  The next 100+ pages cover all deciduous trees of northeastern North America, in turn, with a good discussion of each species being attended by excellent four-color photographs of the subject tree in various formats, including group, solo, and partial shots.  Finally a sixty-page section gives the same ememplary treatment to northeastern North American evergreens.  These, too, form part of the fall patterns, albeit in a more subdued way. <br />If you live in the area bounded by Ontario, Minnesota, Missouri, Tennessee, Virginia, Maine, New Brunswick, and Quebec, or are planning to visit any states or provinces in that area this fall, buy this book now, and read it over.   You'll be glad you did, this year and every year.  I would give this book a ten-star rating if I could, and recommend it highly.  An invaluable bargain.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R17KTUK4GD9TEQ	0553263153	150393116	Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A good practice book for the new player.	Lenin once said that &quot;Chess is the gymnasium of the mind.&quot;.  This book is an exercise tool of that facility.  <br />The book begins presuming one has never seen the game, and proceeds to take the reader through increasinly difficult themes by use of programmed learning, a most useful device.  The new player will strengthen his or her game quickly , and the intermediate player, such as myself, will benefit from refreshing forgotten themes, and occasionally discovering a new one. <br />If you are looking for new opening strategies, or detailed middle game analysis, go elsewhere.  This book is very short on theory, but long on training the eye and mind to spot lines of weakness and strength ahead of time.  It will enhance most players' appreciation of the endless subtlety of chess, and I recommend it highly, subject to the foregoing commentary.	2002-07-13
US	39773708	R1J37KBSNOYGMX	0195032128	666547770	Dust Bowl: The Southern Plains in the 1930s (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	29	34	N	N	A most essential book for these times	As most persons are aware, these are times of climatic change, with the West becoming warmer and drier.  These changes are episodic, but mankind's response to them is not so predictable.  Professor Worster's excellent coverage of the Dust Bowl, one of the greatest agricultural and ecological calamities in history, shows that, with a little foresight and honest recognition of the limitations of technology, much of the harm caused by shifting climate can be prevented.  In that respect, it is a hopeful text.<br />Professor Worster, however, views history from a Marxist standpoint, a trait that colors some of his conclusions.  While I agree with him that land is frequently viewed by the shortsighted as a commodity to be used and discarded, I feel that the lessons of the Dust Bowl have resulted in safer, drought-resistant patterns of crop farming.   However, as Worster adroitly points out, the shifting in agricultural practices in the Southern plains is accompanied by a  wasteful use of available underground water, raising a peril of the Dust Bowl's return.  So have we really learned anything?  Time will tell, and not very long from now. <br />So far as Professor Worster addresses the socio-economic causes of the reckless destruction of the short-grass prairie ecosystem for quick profit, his discussion is masterful  His organization of topics and chronology is excellent, and the reader will not soon forget the horror of living with the dust.  The photos of dust storms and their effect are almost nightmarish. <br />Regardless of one's irritation at the myopia of those who try to farm mrginal land, his is a sympathetic portrait as well, waxing almost lyrical in his discussions of the effects of crop failures on the local populace.  The book is copiously reserched and peopled with personal anecdotes of those who lived through the &quot;Dirty Thirties&quot;.  This narrative includes not only the local citizenry, but contains numerous passages about governmental attempts to allay the crisis.  <br />I recommend this book very highly.  I think anyone who likes history, who is concerned about the effects of climatic change, or both, ought to read this book very carefully.  It should be an essential part of anyone's library.	2002-07-12
US	39773708	RK0EH2XBE2FV9	0807115010	914248068	The Great Cypress Swamps	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent text about a fascinating area	The cypress swamps of the southern United States were badly treated for years and decimated in many instances.  However, their role in the ecology of the South became more appreciated as people became aware of the rare creatures and plants these forests and lakes held, and when they also became aware of their economic utility in such areas as purifying water, etc.<br />This book brings out these facets of cypress forests as well as clearly and excellently discussing the flora and fauna found in them.  The discussion on these marvelous trees, themselves, is worth the book price.  Excellent photos abet this effort very well.<br />The major swamps are covered on a chapter-by-chapter basis.  The reader gains an appreciation of the unique nuances of each. I found the chapters on the Great Dismal Swamp and the discussion of the mysterious Carolina Bays most enjoyable.<br />Being a Michigander, the cypress swamp is not an item with which I became familiar until I was an adult, and even then, I had a great lack of understanding of how this eco-system works and why it is important to preserve it. This book greatly filled those voids in my knowledge.<br />Additionally, the book is a good vacation guide for anyone planning a trip to the South.  These swamps, or at least one of them, are worth seeing.  You will have a far better time, and understanding, of what you are seeing, if you read this book first.  I recommend it very highly.  It is one of the better regional ecology books in my library, and a real keeper.  Certainly, anyone who teaches geography or biological sciences should own it.	2002-07-12
US	39773708	R2T6WDGUGS342Y	0922769001	124550320	Amber Forest: Beauty and Biology of California's Submarine Forests	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fine introduction to a little known world	The kelp beds along the central and northern California coasts are a vast botanical and zoological wonderland known by few, and probably appreciated by less, given their history of commercial exploitation.  Kelp are some of the largest plants in the world. <br />The book begins with an examination of kelp itself, its reproductive and growth processes, and its role in ceating a unique, delicate ecosystem. Attention is then turned to marvelous fishes, mollusks, birds, and and mammals, including the once nearly extinct california sea otter.  The book also addresses the many uses of kelp, and the nuances of its harvesting and its long overdue conservation. <br />The book is very well organized and written.  The four-color photographs are a delight, as well as being helpful in understanding the text. <br />I was fortunate enough to buy this book at the Monterey Aquarium, which must be visited, before actually seeing the kelp in the wild.  I found that reading the book was a boon in appreciating and understanding what I was looking at, particularly in drives along the Big Sur coast and in Point Lobos State Park, which is worth at least one full day on its own.  If you are going to this part of the world, or if you live there, this book is a must.  Very highly recommended.	2002-07-12
US	39773708	R2QIF832TC4YP2	0967255406	54095698	Jesus Christ's Meteorite Prophecy	Books	1	2	2	N	N	I rated this book as low as I could	It is truly a pity that people will actually read glop like this and come away thinking themselves to be well informed.  Right from the impossible event portrayed on its cover to forward as far as the reader can stand, this book is a fraudulent, wrong-headed depiction of a very real hazard.  Its readers, if they don't start out ignorant of science, will surely be rendered that way if they accept any part of this text.  I cannot be more plain: don't bother buying it, borrowing it, or reading it.  A hundred thumbs down on this epically bad work.	2002-07-09
US	39773708	R1M5405JH9THP9	0195119193	740029378	Impact!: The Threat of Comets and Asteroids	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The definitive book on impact hazards	The chance of Earth being struck by a large asteroid or comet is neither more nor less now than it has ever been.  If nothing else, this book will bring out that fact.  So for all the folks who want to believe in the magical or the preposterous, such as Nostradamus, Velikovsky, and other fantasy spinners, go elsewhere<br />If, however, you are a person who accepts things scientific, this is your book.  Professsor Verschuur is an excellent, lucid, organized writer who does not waste the reader's time with forays into the specculative or ludicrous.  Instead he forthrightly presents the overview of, and the detail behind, the genuine, if remote, danger that human society will receive heavy damage, if not outright destruction, from a large impact event.  He accurately points out that the remoteness of this eventuality is offset by the magnitude of destruction that will occur if a large impact happens. <br />I have studied impact phenomena for some years, and this book is the most-fact-filled, well organized book of its genre.  It is not only an excellent starting volume for a study of this branch of science, but is a good wake-up call for organizing attempts to meet the danger.  The Professor does not patronize his reader, but neither does he presume a level of knowledge beyond the ken of the average well-informed adult. <br />I recommend the book very highly and would urge anyone interested in this topic to make it a priority purchase.  It is the book by which all similar texts should be measured.	2002-07-09
US	39773708	R1RIWGSGGZRZRU	0925685399	2847969	Signs of Impact! in Canyon Country (Canyon Country Series)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Title Is Misleading	There are at leat two definite impact structures on the Colorado Plateau:  The Meteor Crater (Barringer Crater) in Arizona, and Upheaval Dome in Utah's Canyonlands National Park.  I expected a somewhat detailed treatment of these features, and didn't get it. <br />I also expected some discusssion of impact features in arid areas in general.  I didn't get that, either.<br />What I did get, and didn't want, was a thin, generalized history of  the Colorado Plateau in terms of stratigraphic horizons, something any general textbook on the region would have provided.   I feel the title of the work was highly deceptive, and I am sorry I bought what amounted to a duplicative text. <br />There are far better, more specific text on the Colorado plateau.  Buy one of those, and leave this one on the shelf, or in Amazon's stocks.   Not recommended.	2002-06-04
US	39773708	RCU0SSPYYU8VP	0387952535	304682455	The Deep Hot Biosphere: The Myth of Fossil Fuels	Books	5	88	97	N	N	A scientific revelation/revolution	This book is more than a mere milestone.  If approached with an open mind, it will revolutionize much traditional thinking in the areas of energy, seismology, and the life sciences.<br />Professor Gold is an astrophysicist of high repute, who applies his excellent, free-thinking mind and impeccable logic to disciplines outside his chosen field with astonishing success.  This disturbs traditionalists and adherents of scientific orthodoxy no end, especially when Dr. Gold, more often than not, is correct in his iconoclasms. <br />The instant work presents and consolidates Dr. Gold's seminal work in the area of earth sciences.  Dr. Gold argues convincingly, and with easily understood reasoning, that petroleum, and even coal, are not biogenic, i.e., created from previously living organisms.  Instead, he contends, so-called &quot;fossil fuels&quot; are the result of hydrocarbons being brought up from and through the earth's mantle, and being transformed into their present states by bacteria living in the Earth's crust. These bacteria compose the &quot;deep, hot biosphere&quot; in the book's title.  Thus, fossil fuels are a self-renewing resource not nearly as susceptible to the depletion so often forecast by doomsayers.<br />Dr. Gold's logic appears impeccable to this writer, and the tests he has done to date, such as drilling in the granite of a large Swedish impact structure and finding hydrocarbons where none &quot;should&quot; exist are persuasive indeed.   The popular conception of oil, gas, and coal being the remains of once living creatures seems hopelessly out of date in light of Dr. Gold's research.<br />Dr. Gold goes on to discuss the origin of life, as it relates to microorganisms found in the earth's crust and asks whether these primitive creatures may exist on other planets as well.<br />Another interesting theory arising from the implications of mobile hydrocarbons in the Earth's interior relates to earthquakes and their prediction.  Dr. Gold notes many cultures have spoken of physical changes occuring prior to earthquakes and suggests that these tangible phenomena are related to gases moving in the crust.  When a critical point is reached in terms of shifting tensions, Dr. Gold suggests the result is an earthquake.  <br />Interestingly, much Russian research agrees with Dr. Gold on this and other of his theories.   Western research appears more bound to orthodox thinking.  It is this writer's belief that Dr. Gold and his cohorts have much to say on the true state of the planet beneath us, and its contents. <br />The book receives my highest recommendation, and it will be interesting to see how much of Dr. Gold's thinking becomes the scientific orthodoxy of the future.   The book is rated a must read for anyone with an interest ie earth sceiences, energy issues, or both.	2002-06-03
US	39773708	R4W5NRBCEMTUF	0691009198	817103076	Chesapeake Invader	Books	4	2	2	N	N	America's biggest meteor strike unmasked.	The book presents an interesting first-person study of how the 53 mile-wide Chesapeake impact structure was identified.  The 40-million year-old feature is not apparent from surface observation, and its unmasking forms this classic tale of scientific detective work at is finest.  The author is not hesitant in issuing praise to those who knew some atypical feature was present, but who lacked the means or opportunity to categorically identify the structure for what it was.  In this respect, the narrative is delightfully free of much of the acrimony that has marked so many of the works about the Chixulub dinosaur killer.<br />The book's text is highly readable and explains in an unpatronizing manner many of the tools and concepts used in solving this great scientific puzzle.  Also, the book's author doesn't allow himself to be bogged down in minutiae, an all-to-easy peril in a work of this nature. <br />The book is recommended to any teen or adult with a limited background in science, and to any and all persons with an interest in earth science or the scientific method in action.  I liked it very much.  Enjoy.	2002-06-03
US	39773708	R2PKTRYMNY2GZB	0452269350	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (Plume)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Well written, but questionable conclusions.	Vice-President Gore is probably the most scientifically well-read aspirant for higher office in recent years.  The boook is replete with carefully researched references on all of the major environmental issues of the day.  Some of his cited data is questionable, as in his recitation of major, but undocumented eruptions from Hekla and Etna volcanoes, and some of the dates appear out of sync, but these are relatively minor quibbles.<br />Less certain of reliance are the conclusions drawn.  Simply put, the author is a latter Cassandra on the order of the celebrated Ehrlichs.  Gore is of the opinion that the bulk of the problems confronting mankind are generated  by human activity. <br />As an example, the Vice President seems absolutely immobile in his beief that climatic warming is the result of excessive fossil fuel use alone.  Evidence of previous warming and desertification episodes prior to the Industrial Age is given short shrift, and I believe this hampers an objective analysis of the issue. <br />All this being said, I recommend the book to the interested reader.  It presents one of the more lucid texts on the \\"Green\\" theory of politics and energy.  The book contains many arguable points, but I believe all but the most closed-minded would find them thought-provoking, even if some are not ultimately accepted. <br />I read the book before the last election, and although I didn't vote for Gore, I came away with a deep respect for his sincerity and depth of knowledge in the matters discussed.   It is refreshing in these times of Enronism, Monica-gates, and so forth, to see an aspirant for higher office delve into matters not traditiionally associated with candidates, i.e., the scientific discoveries of the day and their implications.	2002-06-03
US	39773708	R3V7LV8LEPVKYL	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	2	17	38	N	N	I was not overly impresed.	The book is premature, inasmuch as the action against those who perpetrated the September 11, 2001 atrocities is still ongoing.  It is far too soon to sort out causation and effect.  This fact would properly daunt an objective historian.  No matter how much one may disagree or agree with the author's frequently novel viewpoints, and those he elicits, the fact remains that the episode is too fresh to allow a reasoned analysis. <br />One may fairly conclude, and will conclude from an objective reading of this opus, that Chomsky, as was the case with many of his other works,  has jumped the gun in an effort to promote his own subjective opinions to the prejudice of more reasoned efforts at a later time.  <br />This may suffice as effective propaganda to some, but it is no way to record history.  Given the fact that the struggle is ongoing, it is a mere, nakedly political attempt to influence the course of events rather than report upon or analyze them. I do not recommend the book for that reason.  I believe that its purchase is a waste of better-used resources.	2002-04-07
US	39773708	R1S2Y0ZHEA8FWE	0679736395	883298002	Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Only could be done by one who was there.	I have suffered from episodic depression since I was a boy.  I have had insulin shock in 1966, and electric shock in 2000.  Both times, I had become suicidal.  In between, I drank heavily for some 20 years. When I quit, the depression returned, and I wish Styron had written more on that particular phenomenon.  I am convinced alcohol abuse is unintended self-therapy for depression.  <br />Othewise, the book is a gem.  It describes as well as any work I have seen, the despair, confusion, and feeling of uselessness that attend this serious malady.  Only after reading this, and two other books recommended by my psychiatrist, have I come to see that depression is an illness that can be treated, not a shameful lack of courage and discipline that can be used to further aggravate the condition itself.   I hope never to go back where I've been, but books like Mr. Styron's have taught that help is there before things get out of control, if I do. <br />The highest possible recommendation is given, not only to sufferers but to their families and friends.	2002-04-05
US	39773708	R39PT6BS0AIAU2	1559634847	4886895	Betrayal of Science and Reason: How Anti-Environmental Rhetoric Threatens Our Future	Books	2	29	49	N	N	A curious book, to say the least	I recommend this book, with reservations. My take on it is different than many of the reviews so far given.<br />The Ehrlichs' role as among the first, most persistent, and most dire of environmental Cassandras is well known and need not be revisited now.  The presently-reviewed book adds little to what they have previously said in terms of areas of concern.  Rather, it appears to be a valedictory of sorts, where the Ehrlichs return their critics' responses in kind.<BR> To my view, their response, although perhaps understandable, is ineffective as being too filled with slanted prose, hyperbole,  and, unfortunately, outright name-calling.  A more reasoned sort of response would have been highly preferable.  The form of the message so obscures and detracts from its substance as to render both rather incredible.<br />Also, the book is plagued with easily avoided errors.  By way of a single chapter's example, the Ehrlichs contend, in their chapter on climate/global warming, that climate earlier than 1200AD is essentially unknowable because of a lack of record keeping.  This is not so, as many methods, including varves, dendrochronology, ice-coring, etc., are available to do year-by-year studies.  The Ehrlichs' statements  and implications that warming is now more severe than at any time since the advent of the Holocene find no support.  The xerothermic episode of the late 1200's that resulted in the demise of the Anasazi culture in the Southwest, and the desertification of much of Nebraska, occurred at this time.  Of these, not a word.  Likewise the Altithermal, or Climactic Optimum, of circa 4,000BC, or 6000BP, and not the present, has marked the warmest part of the Holocene. <br /> The Ehrlichs'refusal to bring these facts into the equation shows either a lack of research or a refusal to change a previously-desired impression.  Neither, ACCORDING TO THE EHRLICHS IN THE SAME CHAPTER, is the mark of good or effective science.  Other examples abound elsewhere, but spacelimits their discussion here.  From a factual viewpoint, I cannot recommend this book to the serious scientific reader.<br />However, the book is a prototypically good example of the causes of the troubles the Ehrlichs describe the environmental movement as facing.  The skeptics decried by the Ehrlichs find their fuel in the Ehrlich style of crying wolf too often, and in the Ehrlichs' scientific inflexibility in the face of developing data that may be contrary to their earlier positions.   Here, I need only cite the failure of their predictions in, \\"The Population Bomb.\\" <br />The upshot is that if Green proponents want to find how to lose status and credibility with those who are undecided, this book is a must-read.   Contrariwise, if skeptics wish to determine why their own claims are subject to a healthy case of doubt, the Ehrlichs show them in many instances.  Note carefully that I do not say the Ehrlichs are always wrong.  They aren't, and a good deal of what they say is buttressed by fact, just not enough of it to be fully persuasive.  I suspect that a more reasoned approach by the Ehrlichs would have resulted in a far more important book.  The best way to dispel the confusion the Ehrlichs claim their opponents create is by reasoned, honest presentation, not name-calling, slanted prose, hyperbole, and disingenuous simile and metaphor.  <br />In closing, the book's only real value is to show each side of this important controversy the defects that plague their respective positions.  Both sides should read the book with this goal in mind.   Otherwise, a reading only serves the contrary purpose of reinforcing previously held biases.<br />I recommend the book, but subject to the foregoing substantial cautions.  A pity, because so much more could have been accomplished by a disciplined writer.	2002-04-05
US	39773708	R1VJSG0JC47IXG	0385314264	865570422	On the Edge of Darkness: Conversations About Conquering Depression	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An extremely helpful book.	I have suffered from episodic clinical depression for years.  I would never admit it was an illness.  Instead, I regarded it as a character flaw or deficiency of will.  I suffered in secret, mostly, maintaining an outwardly jovial appearance, although I drank heavily.  Finally, I had a second severe bout beginning in 1995, and in 199 I became suicidal, and finally underwent shock treatment.  Thereafter, I was unlicensed in my profession, got divorced, and went bankrupt.  Because I was too proud to admit that depression is an illness, adangerous illness lke cancer, shared by many persons you'd never even guess have it.  <br />I wish I had had this book ten, or even five years ago.  It would have taught things easily that i've learned the hard way. <br />The book is a compendium of anecdotes, by people such as Mike Wallace, Dick Clark, Joan Rivers, William Styron, etc., all of  whom have found that ways to cope with Churchill's so-called \\"Black Dog\\".  You can too, if you find yourself on the edge of unbearable despair, as I did.<br />Depression is, above all, a lonely illness.  The people in the book make it less lonely, enabling the patient and his or her loved ones to cope with an illness that can't be seen, heard, sensed, or understood.  If your life is touched by your own, or someone else's depression. You need this book.  I believe it has helped save my life.	2002-04-05
US	39773708	R3ITD84J5Z0Q8D	0385314264	865570422	On the Edge of Darkness: Conversations About Conquering Depression	Books	5	30	30	N	N	An extremely helpful book.	I have suffered from episodic clinical depression for years.  I would never admit it was an illness.  Instead, I regarded it as a character flaw or deficiency of will.  I suffered in secret, mostly, maintaining an outwardly jovial appearance, although I drank heavily.  Finally, I had a second severe bout beginning in 1995, and in 1999 I became suicidal, and finally underwent shock treatment.  Thereafter, I was unlicensed in my profession, got divorced, and went bankrupt, all because I was too proud to admit that depression is an illness, a dangerous illness like cancer, shared by many persons you'd never even guess have it.  <br />I wish I had had this book ten, or even five years ago.  It would have taught me things easily that I've learned the hard way. <br />The book is a compendium of anecdotes, by people such as Mike Wallace, Dick Clark, Joan Rivers, William Styron, etc., all of  whom have found that ways to cope with Churchill's so-called \\"Black Dog\\".  You can too, if you find yourself on the edge of unbearable despair, as I did.  I am now on the way back.<br />Depression is, above all, a lonely illness.  The people, and their narratives, in the book make depression less lonely, enabling the patient and his or her loved ones to cope with an illness that can't be seen, heard, sensed, or understood. <br />If your life is touched by your own, or someone else's depression. You need this book.  I believe it has helped save my life.  Obviously, my recommendation is off the scale.	2002-04-05
US	39773708	R3DO6CA41XU0WF	1879181428	862418308	Cataclysm!: Compelling Evidence of a Cosmic Catastrophe in 9500 B.C.	Books	1	13	34	N	N	Velikovskyites--Rally 'round	This book is another in a series of conglomerations of pseudo-science, where limited amounts of facts are admixed with a surfeit of ad hominem conclusions, and presented as a finished exercise in studied thought.  To say the least, although an atmosphere of copious study is fashioned, the result is sheer balderdash.<br />The theory of extraterrestrial cataclysm set out is extraordinary, and the supportive proofs meager. Instead, the book relies on superstition, obscure and mystical folklore, and speculation, and the hard evidence is lacking.  <br />At least it was my friend, and not me  who wasted the money this time.  I got stuck on Bell and Streiber's &quot;The Coming Superstorm&quot;, which was just as bad, if less artful.   Both books are in the category of being entertaining page turners for short-hop flights, but which should be taken with the proverbial grain of salt.  Don't waste your money on either one.	2002-04-05
US	39773708	R3CIS7A5CPFDJ6	0070442371	423477226	The Great Waves: Tsunami	Books	4	3	4	N	N	One of the few good books about this real hazard	I liked this book, and would highly recommend it to anyone living on an ocean coast or a few miles inland.  Tsunamis (tidal waves), are, of course, not tides, but merely large ripples occasioned by a powerful oceanic event, such as an earthquake, landslide, volcanic eruption, or extraterrestrial body striking Earth.  Because the book ignores the last option, and only lightly touches upon the second, I cannot give it five stars.<br />In fairness, causes one and three are the most common, and the author devotes his attention accordingly.  His narrative of the series of tsunamis that erased Arica, Chile from the face of the Earth in 1870 should be read by every coast-dweller. It CAN  happen to you. <br />The book is packed with facts, and useful information, and the text is easily read and understood.  It is a good introductory volume for the uninitiated, but the informed citizen should be aware of the megatsunami problem posed by large volcanic islands sliding into the ocean, and by impacts.  For that reason, after this book is completed, the video by the Dicovery Channel group on this topic should be obtained.	2002-03-28
US	39773708	R2TJ7XE9XLZTC3	0963775103	829235549	Ecodefense: A Field Guide to Monkeywrenching	Books	5	10	19	N	N	How to fight the REAL criminals	This is a well-organized book that gives a lot of useful info on how to fix the greed-crazy corporate S.O.B's, especially developers and loggers, that are systematically and uncaringly destroying this country for profit.  Is this stuff criminal?  Well, the laws passed by the corporately paid-for Legislatures may say so, but any real human being knows better.  Ludd and Abbey weren't always right, but far milder souls than these may be become too outraged and....at least now they know how to do it right.  Don't like it, corporate America?  Then shape up your ethics that you learned at Enron.	2002-03-28
US	39773708	R7V1XZMWH4IPH	081290978X	120567319	The Islamic Bomb	Books	5	15	25	N	N	A book ahead of its time.	Although printed 20 years ago, this book told you exactly how Pakistan and Iraq were planning to obtain and build nuclear devices and weapons.   Pakistan now has done it.  The book sets forth the people who headed the programs, and how corrupt and venial cororations, aided by uncaring governments, helped in the cause.   <br />The book is a very penetrating, detailed study of how the atomic genie, once loosed, cannot be coaxed back into the bottle.  Given the terrorist acts against America in 2001, it should give every American pause for cause, and shows why preventative war against Iraq and other Moslem nations is not only desirable, but imperative. If you think the Moslems are not America's deadly enemy, this book will change your mind.	2002-03-27
US	39773708	R17QSTXZ4PQGDO	0929712838	4204529	Burning The Tables in Las Vegas--Keys to Success in Blackjack and in Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A darned good book, if you pay attention.	Ian Anderson, whoever he really is, is a great story-teller.  He's probably borrowed half his tales from floor gossip, but so what?  The point is that casinos have become aggressive in going after people they think can win.   You have to utilize psychology and human foibles to keep from being targeted. <br />This book, and its predecessor, &quot;Turning the Table on Las Vegas&quot;, will show you how. You won't use everything the author talks about.  Don't try.  Read what he is talking about, not what he is saying, if you get the drift.  If you do, and you read Stanford Wong's book, you'll win in the shadows while the Ustonites get kicked out of casino after casino.  I know. I do.	2002-03-27
US	39773708	R31BEWZ0X6YK5N	0935926216	465899440	Professional Blackjack	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Still the best book for winners:  Shut up, and deal!!	Look, the casino is a business, not a charitable institution.  Uston and his mouth have ruined it for most people by making the casinos aggressive.  If you use Wong's approach, (hi-lo), you will attract a lot less attention, and make as much money as you did before.  I know, I do it.  <br />What most people forget, and what Wong does not, is that blackjack is an exercise in pitting mathematics against random chance/odds that alter in your favor as the cards fall, if you are observant.  Wong shows why most people lose is that they get piggy.  He has a short section on desireable behavior.  If you follow this, you don't need to know more.  <br />Uston and genre may be great raconteurs, but if you want to win quietly (win), my money is on Wong.  Think about it this way:  Whoever &quot;Stanford Wong&quot; is, he uses an alias, which means he wants to keep playing.  Uston runs his mouth, sells games, writes books, and brings lawsuits.  Every casino knows Uston by face.  Well, which one do you want to be?  I want to play, so I follow Wong's time-tested methods, as set out in the book.   <br />If you needed to read a book to know that deck penetration is an important factor, for example, you shouldn't be playing the game in the first place. That's why Wong didn't play with such nonsense in his book.  Read the whole book, then go think about it and learn how to be unobtrusive.  Then go win.	2002-03-27
US	39773708	RUV4XZK68DM8V	0451522516	587225106	Elmer Gantry (Signet Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A book ahead of its time.	The slang is dated, and today's technology isn't foreseen, but the human nature is exactly the same.  You can envision Jimmy Swaggert, James Bakker, Paula White or any of the other innumerable other TV evangelist charlatans in a hot second, when you read about Elmer's true nature as a womanizing, conniving, deceptive hypocrite.  <br />Of course, Elmer would have been unfrocked a bit sooner by today's prying media, or would he?   Look at Swaggert, whose sins are like Elmer's, and whose \\"repentance\\" absolutely mirrors Elmer's at the end of the book.  He still fills up the churches like Elmer did.<br />What \\"Elmer Gantry\\" really proves is that the American mind is still fertile ground for would-be messiahs, no matter how base and hypocritical they are in real life.   Indeed, the book makes you wonder if all religion hasn't always been thus.  Today's Catholic child abuse scandals, the Taliban destruction of art, and Pat Robertson's political ambitions surely argue that \\"Elmer Gantry\\" is not some simple, anti-religious tract. In that respect, the book is ultimately useful. <br />Indeed, this book may be one of the most valuable books of the 20th Century in that it helped thwart the American recurring tendency toward theocracy.  Where is the book's kind today?	2002-03-27
US	39773708	RS2KSLWVBYUX9	0911977058	37260483	Florida's Fabulous Seashells: And Other Seashore Life	Books	5	27	27	N	N	An excellent, comprehensive review of shells.	I'm a Michigan snowbird.  I didn't know one shell from another until I purchased this highly interesting, informative book.  I have derived many hours of pleasure from looking at the colorful, spectacular photgraphs of the amazing creatures that make the depicted shells.  When one combines these with a text that is readable, finely detailed, and which closely follows the photographs, a book that should be part of any Florida visitor's library is obtained.  Get it, and read it, before you go, and enhance your trip!!<br />I might note that my high recommendation extends to all books in this series.  Since purchasing this and other volumes in the series, I have been able to discard a lot of lesser quality materials purchased on earlier trips, and yet increase the quality of my library.	2002-03-26
US	39773708	R3T4PZUMAMSS6R	0809443287	495593787	Ice Ages (Planet Earth)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A very good introductory book to the Ice Age	I recommend this book highly.  It is well-written and easily understood by the newcomer, yet sophisticated enough for someone with an earth science background.  The photography is excellent, with some pictures being remarkable for their spectacular beauty.  Both the photos and the superb diagrams follow the text closely.  <br />I was especially impressed with Chapter 2, on the disappearance of the large wild animals, and with Chapter 3, on the development of solutions to the &quot;cosmic problem&quot;, of Ice Age causation.  Both show the development of science via the scientific method in an exemplary fashion.<br />The best chapter to me was Chapter 4, however, which discusses challenges to the proposed astronomical causation theory.  while the currently fashionable &quot;Atlantic Conveyor&quot;, isn't discussed in detail, only its recent novelty prevented this.  It is noteworthy that this book has been quoted frequently in scientific abstracts.<br />The book won't make you a glaciologist or a paleontologist, but it will surely whet your interest and increase your knowledge in these fields.  Any natural science library is well served by this book's inclusion.	2002-03-26
US	39773708	R26IHJGRGL4BNL	0060148241	329403876	Run, River, Run: A Naturalist's Journey Down One of the Great Rivers of the West	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The best river book you'll ever love.	Ann Zwinger is a peerless writer.  Each paragraph, sentence, and word is like a drop of sunlit dew; sparkling and yet sublime.  You need a dictionary sometimes, but her great use of the King's English raises your consciousness without being tiring or boring.  Each sentence invites a tour to the next, just as Zwinger's favorite river, the Green River in Wyoming and Utah, always seems to have just one more tantalizing view around the next bend.<br />Mrs. Zwinger combines notes from several trips on the Green into a single, seamless narrative traversing the river from its source to its meeting with the Colorado.   The only areas left out are the Fontanelle and Flaming Gorge reservoirs, which are but temporary vandalizations by the Bureau of Reclamation.  <br />The book visits the river both from a naturalist's and a historian's viewpoint, with plenty of metaphors and visualization of an an almost lyrical nature included.  It is never-ending delight to read Mrs. Zwinger's loving prose about one of the few still partially wild places in our country.  You can close your eyes every paragraph or two, and be magically transported to the scenes and events she unfolds.  The book also has a gently humorous quality, as when Mrs. Zwinger describes clouds of mosquitoes, and losing a Dutch oven in the murky water.<br />Mrs Zwinger's knowledge of geography is absolutely correct when she points out that the Green River is the true master stream of the Colorado watershed, and that only a historical accident has resulted in the former &quot;Grand&quot; river being renamed as the &quot;Colorado&quot;. <br />I should note that the author is also a gifted artist and cartographer.  Her maps at each chapter's start are excellent guides, and her numerous charcoal sketches of plants, birds, tools such as the old Green River knife, and the like, more than make up for lack of photographs in the book.  Indeed, such would only be distractive.   <br />Mrs. Zwinger's last sentence in the book, penned as the Green River meets the Colorado at the foot of Stillwater Canyon, reads &quot;I do not want to hear the river ending.&quot;  This is an apt sentiment as applied to her book as well. <br />This was one of the first books I ever read on the West.  Since then, I hunt up and read everything she writes.  I have never been disappointed.  You may wish to read &quot;&quot;Wind in the Rock&quot; and &quot;The Mysterious Lands&quot;, among others.  I close by simply stating that any library that doesn't have this fabulous book on the West, the river, and the human spirit, is incomplete.	2002-03-26
US	39773708	R8LXG4OVZ3O56	0945005121	706640139	Volcanoes of the World: A Regional Directory, Gazetteer, and Chronology of Volcanism During the Last 10,000 Years	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An indispensible masterpiece on nearly all active volcanoes	This book is one of a kind. I don't understand how anyone who likes volcanoes and volcanic phenomena could not go wild with this book.<br />The book gives the location and height of each of the 1,511 volcanoes known to have been active in the last 10,000 years.  A few more have been discovered since the 1993 publication date, but this defect can be easily remedied by recourse to the GVP link on the Net.  More importantly, each known eruption is described by date, duration and explosive power.  Also,  each eruption of each mountain, no matter how many, has its chief characteristics set out, including type of eruption and fatalities and damage, if any. <br />The book contains copious footnotes for the serious reader and a thorough general discussion at the start.  Interesting black and white photos and drawing are occasionally found as well.  The total accumulation of presented data is immense.  However, anyone with a moderate scientific background will not be overwhelmed.<br />Residents of the Western U.S. and Canada should read the history of these regions with particular care, since the book shows eruptive patterns and locations of many underpublicized volcanic areas with great precision.  This enables informed decision-making in the event of the next activity of any of these features.<br />The only parallel I can find in any other book is The Baseball Encyclopedia.  If you want to know anything about a given volcano, it's probably here.  For the interested reader in geology, it is essential, and for the volcano \\"geek\\", it is Nirvana.  I've had it for over three years and I still peruse it regularly.<br />VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!	2002-03-26
US	39773708	R1UVX39E156U8M	0911977139	115749302	Florida's Fabulous Mammals	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fine guide to native and exotic mammals.	Most touristic field guides are remarkable either by a dearth of meaningful information, poor photography, or both.  This book, and its parent series, for that matter, suffer from neither, and form excellent works that are a proud part of anyone's library.  <br />With respect to the instant work, the text is exceptional, containing many captivating facts about animals a lot of folks would regard as very ordinary and uninteresting.  Did you know, for example, that beavers were once wild in Florida, were trapped into extinction. and that they are now returning?  <br />The great color photography closely follows the expertly-prepared text, and brings out many detailed facets of the creatures described.  I would heartily recommmend this book and its companions to anyone, tourist or native, who has any sort of interest in  Florida or North American wildlife or nature.	2002-03-26
US	39773708	R2A42KL662BVE7	0870112503	376211949	National Parks of Japan	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Gallery of Natural Wonders	It is regrettable that this book is no longer in publication.   It is an exquisite compilation of the national parks of Japan, stating at the northeast tip of Hokkaido island, and proceeding south to Iwo Jim and the Ryukyu island chain that reaches almost to Taiwan. It includes active volcanoes, even one that erupts almost every day.  The climates range from sub-arctic to tropical.  Also found are sand dunes, hot springs, waterfalls, forests, scenic calderas similar to Crater Lake, picturesque seashores of all sorts, and beautiful mountains, among them the incredible Fuji.<br />The parks are divided into geographical groups.  Each park is described separately, and most have detailed maps.  The written text is excellent, but the highlight is the photography.  Many of the photographs are done in four-color format to accentuate the highlights. <br />Even if you never make it to Japan, and I haven't, you will derive hour after hour of enjoyment from this esceptional travel book.  I strongly recommend its acquisition, and equally, <BR>against loaning it out.	2002-03-25
US	39773708	R1M3SV95PMQJA7	0470268441	277030723	Winters of the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An exceptional work, even if dated.	This book was published in 1979, and is now out of print. I seldom recommend such books, especially in a fast-changing area of science. An exception lies here. <br />This book is about Ice Ages, from the Pre-Cambrian to the present.  Although some of the text is outdated, such things as the Atlantic conveyer current not yet having been theorized when this text was published, I wouldn't be surprised if it is still regarded as a valuable instruction tool.  <br />Brian John should be commended for having compiled an easily read, yet encyclopedic, text of all relevant aspects of this area of science as of 1979.  The photgraphs, although in black and white format, excellently depict the concepts being discussed.  Some are classics.  <br />The book's remarks about the dissolution of the latest Quaternary ice sheets remain timely in light of the current controversy over the status of the West Antarctic Ice sheet and its ice shelves. Equally of great value are the discussions and photos concerning the formation of such post-glacial features as outwash plains, (sandur), eskers, kames, and roche moutonees. <br />I highly recommend this book to any student of glaciology or Ice Ages.  Indeed, I do not believe a library on such matters without this book is complete.	2002-03-25
US	39773708	R395T22J51UP8U	0809443171	234729844	Glacier (Planet Earth)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fine introductory work for the layman.	This book is one of the acclaimed Time-Life ,&quot;Planet Earth&quot; , series, and excellently holds up its end of things.  The book addresses both alpine glaciers and ice sheets and does an excellent, brief history on the origination and refinement of Ice Age science.  The photography, both color and black-white, is exceptional and closely follows an easily read and understood text that is not elementary.  The sections on icebergs and on the Antarctic dry valleys are one of a kind.<br />I could have done without yet another review of Captain Robert Scott's folly in the Antarctic, and can't give the book five stars for that reason, but I suppose that any author of a work on glaciers feels somehow obliged to put in a section on early polar exploration, especially on the unduly stubborn Captain Scott.<br />As noted, the rest of the volume is very well done, and I recommend it highly to anyone not familiar with the nuances of glaciology and Ice Ages.	2002-03-25
US	39773708	R1Q9Y9YWAO3BWX	1558214348	109818934	The Hidden West: Journey in the American Outback (Wilder Places)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I really liked this book	A cousin tipped me off to this little known masterpiece, which consists of a short, well-written series of anecdotes and tales about the West.  An expert in verbal imagery, Schultheis takes you gambling at Native American pow-wow, canyon ratting in Utah, meeting a jack rabbit who lures motorcyclists to their doom, and other esoteric topics with equal aplomb.<br />His best tale, and the one you won't forget, is the last in order, a fictional episode during the next great Western drought, when the xerothermic climate brings disaster west of the Mississippi.  <br />Schultheis is very readable, and each essay is thought-provoking.  I predict you will enjoy this wonderful book.  As the previous reviewer cautions, however, loan it out at your own risk.	2002-03-25
US	39773708	R31Y324Q3Z4OIM	0452256194	548105678	Comets: Swords of Heaven (Plume)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Either poorly proofed or poorly researched, or both	Mr. Richie is a reasonably good writer.  Certain of his books are successful in explaining the nuances of areas of science to laymen, as with \\"Ring Of Fire\\", for example.  Unfortunately, the presently reviewed work is not one of them.  Instead it is a disappointing text marked by serious errors in either research, proofreading, or both.<br />As an example, Ritchie categorically states that the Gulf of St Lawrence and the Nastapoka Arc of southeastern Hudson Bay are \\"astroblemes\\", a specific term for an impact structure coined by Dr. Robert S. Dietz, a prominent pioneer in the field of the study of impact strucures. (Interestingly, the book never mentions Dr. Dietz.)  See page 146.<br />What Ritchie does NOT tell you is that Dr. Dietz has examined the Nastapoka Arc carefully and that Dr. Dietz has found NO evidence of meteoritic origin.  Neither feature is mentioned on any of the current listings of astroblemes.  Ritchie then backtracks and says, well, heck, I guess they haven't decided for sure on these things, in effect.  You can't have it both ways.  Ritchie first makes a declarative statement, then disavows it; this is not good writing.<br />An even more egregious blunder is simple spelling. The Vredefort impact structure in the Republic of South Africa is spelled in that manner; not \\"Vredevoort\\" or \\"Fredefort\\", as per page 147 of this book.  I have been reading reports on this amazing fature for 30 years, and Richie's offered spellings are not found in any literature of any kind that I have reviewed.<br />However, some might say these are proofreading problems.  Consider, however, that at page 141, in talking about a near miss by an asteroid that passed over the Western United States in 1972, Ritchie categorically states the event took place at night.   This is just plain wrong, and easily ascertained.  In fact, a daytime film shows the object proceeding north at a high rate of speed over Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  The video has been widely shown on television, andthe time is stated as being about 1:00 p.m.  The weather is sunny, with occasional clouds.  NO excuse at all for missing this.<br />There are a lot more such errors, but I am limited to 1,000 words, so these will have to suffice.  But I am telling you that the book is rife with so many other such errors that it is worse than valueless as a serious work.  Don't waste your time buying or reading this hodge-podge of misinformation.	2002-03-24
US	39773708	R11L10GG62ZF4G	1891858165	961518969	Backcountry Moab - Where The Tours Don't Go	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Nice in many ways; but disappointing	I am a fan of the Colorado Plateau, particularly southeastern and eastern Utah.  I have visited the Moab area several times, and bought the present volume with great anticipation.  I like it, but......<br />Some the directions are a bit confusing, without a map being handy.  I would have anticipated either an enclosure or an insert.  A minor thing, perhaps. <br />The second, major disappointment lies in the fact that the book, except for its two color photos on the covers, has all photos in a black-white format.  The area around Moab is remarkable for its multi-color rock formations.  The brown of the Entrada, the cream of Navajo, the red of the Wingate, and the chocolate of the Moenkopi rocks each carry that layer's signature, and also provide a valuable guidepost for the tourist familiar with the differences.  Here, the reader is denied that information.  I wish the blurb for the book would have told me more about the photo layout. <br />So, even though the text of the book is sufficient for the most part, the foregoing factors prevent me from giving a higher rating than I do.	2002-03-24
US	39773708	RV0H35Y8HR408	0446610232	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	1	7	14	N	N	To the Authors:  Bad science is worse than none at all.	Admittedly, the book is not intended as a scientific text, but only as a page-turner on a long flight.  Even so, I expect that such books, if they are purportedly based on science, ought to at least try to get it right.  Here, no such effort is apparent.<br />The narrative regarding the meteorite is so skewed as to make a knowledgeable reader wonder whether the authors ever read anything on coesite, other than to see how to spell it correctly.  Where's the crater?  Etc., Ad nauseam.<br />When a book starts that badly it's at least even money it won't improve.  It didn't here.  The plot is murky. The characters are stereotypically incredible. The ending is disingenuous, openly begging for a sequel, which we can only hope will be better researched and better crafted.  Save your money.	2002-03-23
US	39773708	R1T08IHUBW785L	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	4	5	11	N	N	The key,salient point: Save the electoral college.	This book points out the obvious, of course, that Al Gore, if he had any scruples, certainly let blind ambition overrule them in this instance.  Just so Republicans take no comfort, recall John Mitchell and Oliver North, to name only two. After the election in November, many pro-Gore people, including that noted constitutional scholar, Hillary Clinton, wanted to abolish the the electoral college, saying this would obviate the problem in the future..  What NONSENSE! <br />For shame, Hillary.  Did you really go to Yale?  Law school?<br />The real point transcends party lines, however.  Without the electoral college, our whole form of government would change.  We would necessarily have to become a parliamentary democracy.  The would be no alternative.  Neither Clinton, George W. Bush, Nixon in '68, nor Kennedy in '60 had a majority of the popular vote.  Only the electoral college enabled them to assume the Presidency.  What would have happened without it?<br />First, either a runoff, which would be time-consuming and expensive, or a plurality rule, would be necessary to declare a victor.  Either would require not one but several constitutional amendments.  <br />In the case of a plurality rule, given the fact that splinter parties, representing special interests, such as abortion or opposition to it, environmentalists, minorities, etc, would assume undue paramounce and an enhanced ability to upset an election.  If a candidate were allowed to accumulate vote from more than one party, the way would exist to require a fundamental change from a republic to a parliamentary democracy, with its attendant chaos.<br />The electoral college requires a majority electoral vote for one to succeed to the Presidency.  If that cannot be done by the electors, the election goes to a House vote to select a President by majority vote of the members. If a deadlock occurs in the House, the Senate must pick a Vice-President from the two top electoral vote getters, no more. The person selected by the Senate shall serve as acting President until the House reaches a majority vote on one of the candidates, which winner then assumes the Presidency.  You could look it up in the Twelth and Twenty-Fifth Amendments. <br />So what do you want, a system that guarantees you a President efficiently, without haggling or bargaining with spliter groups being necessary, or a wholesale shift in our way of government?<br />I vote for the former, and state that any thinking person would do likewise when made aware of the facts.  Save the Electoral College.  Imagine what Gore or Nixon would have done without it!!! What has been outlined in this book would be as nothing.	2002-03-22
US	39773708	R39CQYAAOEQD6P	023107090X	142195443	Mass Extinctions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Got to be a five -star book	This book is a good review of a puzzling problem.  No extinction library would be complete without it.  I highly recommend it.<br />As to the anonymous reader from Ohio who whines that the book disagrees with his Bible: If the dinosaurs and trilobites didn't exist, why do we keep finding their bones?  My God is not in the business of making hoaxes.  Too bad about yours.	2002-03-22
US	39773708	RCBO3RH7XTF1S	0804817901	42763830	Sixty Seconds That Will Change the World : The Coming Tokyo Earthquake	Books	5	5	6	N	N	This disaster is for real, and it is going to affect YOU!	I am astonished this book is out of print. Unlike most books warning of future calamities, this one's subject, a great earthquake devastating Tokyo and surrounding towns on the Kanto plain, is virtually certain to happen. The only question is \\"When?\\".  The answer would appear to be, \\"Any time at all, now.\\", given the fact that detailed record-keeping shows a tremendous earthquake strikes this area about every seventy years, and that the last one was on September 1, 1923!  Japan is the world's most severe-earthquake-prone area. <br />The author sets forth, in harrowing detail, not only what may be expected when the catastrophe occurs, but what may be expected to precede and, even more importantly, to follow the temblor. <br />A widespread cataclysm on the Kanto Plain will prove devastating to the economy all over the world, given Japanese overseas investment, which investment would naturally be withdrawn to rebuild the shattered megalopolis, and its varied heavy and light industry, as well as its many world business headquarters.  <br />Indeed, given the inflated value of Japanese realty, every insurer around the globe will be jeopardized, not only through direct policies issued, but through reinsurance policies taken out by other insurance companies.  This is the tip of the iceberg.<br />Loss of life may be astronomical.  This would include countless business leaders and their families.  also to be expected would be immense political chaos and instability in one of the world's leading economic powers.  Yoour own stock portfolio, retirement fund, company pension and job may be greatly implicated.  This is the one regional disaster that can easily shift history.  <br />You should be informed about this ever-approaching calamity.  Unless plate tectonics ceases to operate, and it won't, this disaster is going to happen, and it is going to affect you!!<br />This book doesn't have all the answers, and probably not even all the questions, given the complexity of Japanese society and economic structures.  But it will make you think, and that's the first line of defense. <br />I'll bet your stockbroker or financial advisor doesn't know about this, but he or she should.  After you read the book, have them read it too.  Then decide how to protect yourself, and do it, because this is one disaster that is going to wait for nobody.  It is going to make Kobe's earthquake look like small potatoes.  I guarantee it.	2002-03-21
US	39773708	R2MG15YMZ7O3ZN	0786866659	700534015	The Coming Storm: Extreme Weather and Our Terrifying Future	Books	1	3	9	N	N	It's very simple, if you think a little.	This book is an engaging mixture of anecdote, some facts, and a good deal of speculation.  This interesting amalgam doesn't harden into convincing evidence,however, and the book is neither persuasive nor a good learning vehicle as a result.  Rather than expatiate, I simply observe that it is better than \\"The Coming Superstorm\\", which is a patent fraud.  The real problem is that all these latter-day catastrophists ignore a few simple realities and a lot of history. <br />Example: Of course any disaster based on inclement weather is probably going to be worse than a similar episode was 100, or 500, or even forty, years ago.  This doesn't even come close to proving climate change.  Rather the reason is simply because there are a lot more people, especially in environmentally hazardous areas, such as seacoasts and barrier islands, seismic zones, and flood plains. HELLO! If more people weren't killed than previously, the weather would have to have a merciful aim, something it does not possess to my knowledge.<br />Another pitfall lies in the specter of rising sea levels.  If you just think about it, melting sea ice can't raise sea levels any more than melting ice in your summer drink raises the level of the fluid in your glass.  Why?  Because ice is simply frozen water, and when it melts, the space the new liquid water takes up was space abandoned by the previously frozen ice when it melted.  In point of fact, ice takes up MORE space than liquid water!  That's why it floats. So don't wail and gnash your teeth when a SEAGOING Antarctic ice shelf lets loose a 4,000, or even a 40,000 square mile iceberg, because that ice shelf is already floating in the ocean.  When land-based glaciers begin calving into the ocean in that range, call me.  I haven't seen it yet.  The same with melting Arctic sea ice.  <br />Finally, the matter of warming.  The atmosphere is getting warmer, no doubt, but it hasn't approached the \\"Climatic Optimum\\" level of 4000 B.C. when Holocene temperaturesreached their peak.  Since then, by intermittent stages, the climate has cooled.  Even so, from 1240-1289 A.D., the western United States was seized by heat and drought.  The Anasazi were forced from Colorado, and the Nebraska Sand Hills were a moving dune field, not grass-covered, as they are in today's cooler,wetter climate. <BR>What would today's Calamity Janes say to a recurrence of that?  <br />So, while I can't say the warming climate is not influenced by man, (it may well be, no one knows), I can and do say that professional worry warts like Bell and Reiss ought to get a little grip on common sense.  Of course, since journalists know that blood and suffering sell, they may already be exercising  it as they cry on their way to the bank.	2002-03-20
US	39773708	R1TJL1RCH84T4N	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A realistic masterpiece of the first order	This timeless masterpiece recounts the most likely of the various apocalyptic ends to man's brief reign on Earth.  Written from a naturalist's viewpoint, the novel recounts the fall of man following a sweeping measles-like pandemic.  The author deftly informs us that the unknown disease is sirborne, that it hits only higher primates, and that the death toll is so all-encompassing that society simply vanishes.  Mr Stewart also notes that the bulk of the few survivors are so devastated by the event that they become incapacitated.  He also recounts nature's way of restoring an upset ecological balance and how the remaining animals cope with their new-found freedom.<br />Ish Williams, the main character, himself goes through a period of psychological angst, but as with some persons in any crisis, recovers his equilibrium.  He sees and meets others who cannot, but eventually meets an equally resolute woman.  The book then briefly, but viably, notes how mores change when society disintegrates.<BR>   <br />In a section entitled \\"Quick Years\\", the couple meet certain other adjusted persons who have adjusted to the \\"Great Disaster\\", as they call it, and a rudimentary \\"tribe\\", so-called, comes into being.  A tight, fascinating study leaves the way clear for \\"The Year 22\\", the next chapter. <br /> It is interesting to note how the members retain traditional taboos, remember dates and holidays, and yet slowly return to a hunter-gatherer society.  Organized learning is a natural casualty, to be replaced by superstition.  Obviously, the ability to conjugate verbs becomes surplusage at such a time. <br />The tribe learns to face disease, criminality, and tragedy.  Religious tenets alter in each such society. One is left with the belief that man hasn't really learned very much by all of it.  You learn that the most important thing to primitive man was the bow and arrow, and fire-making.   Ish preserves these for future generations, along with a less credible democratic tradition.Even the language begins to change, as history marches on. <br />  I won't spoil it by giving the ending, but you won't forget it, any more than you will forget any of the details of this incredibly well thought out, impeccably written book.<br />Even if, as with some reviewers, you cannot accept Stewart's approach or result, you will be forced to concede that, in addition to being a great storyteller, he is an incomparable, almost lyrical, wordsmith.<br />I hated to see the book end.	2002-03-20
US	39773708	R28D96XAPR868N	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	4	5	6	N	N	He knows a lot, but is it all so?	There isn't any question that Keys has done a copious amount of research, particularly in the area of medieval history. His conclusion as to the causative agent of the Dark Ages, a \\"supervolcanic\\" eruption at Krakatau, is highly questionable. Keys seizes upon Krakatau as the culprit based on reports from Chinese sources that \\"thunder\\" was twice heard to the \\"southwest\\". Keys then extrapolates this report into a devastating, island-separating blast at Krakatau...<br />However, Keys' theory hits the shoals of reality after that. First, so far as the writer is aware, no basis has been shown to shift the date of Krakatau's last major outburst prior to 1883 from its generally reported and accepted date of 416 A.D. Keys' attempts to do so are supported by no one else. This extraordinary date shift should be supported by harder evidence than the speculation Keys provides. <br />The point is this. No evidence of a \\"supervolcanic\\" Yellowstone-Toba style eruption has been geologically demonstrated at Krakatau, let alone in 535 A.D. A gargantuan eruption HAS been shown at Rabaul in 536 A.D., however. The other mentioned eruptions could and should have produced the effects Keys mentions in at least one hemisphere, but if they did, I am not aware of hard evidence. <br />This is not to say that Keys' theory of causation should be rejected out of hand. Certainly, Krakatau has had at least two very violent eruptions in historical time. However, other explanations simply suffice better, in my view.  I cannot fault Keys' general proposition that the course of history worldwide may be changed by single catastrophic event, and indeed, no less a pair of eminent historians than the late Will and Ariel Durant have noted that \\"Mankind exists by geological consent\\".<br />Cerainly, Keys' historical research is impressive... Keys' book would rate a five-star rating, but for his unfortunate tendency to take a position, i.e., the Krakatau theory, and then shift evidence, in a rather extraordinary manner, to support it... Despite its wonderful research and thought-provoking theories, this book fails to satisfy that burden.<br />The book remains a must-read, however, and I guarantee you will enjoy it to the hilt.	2002-03-20
US	39773708	R31LM9234RP5SS	004917004X	104441864	Down the Colorado: Diary of the First Trip Through the Grand Canyon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A diary of things lost	This book will hurt to read.  The Eliot Porter photos show what has been lost to our generation by the grossly irresponsible act of damning Glen Canyon.  However the book also shows what has been saved in pictures of the Grand Canyon.  May we know by our failure at Glen Canyon what to  protect, and why, in the future.<br />Powell's own narrative, of course, forms the main written portion of the book, and its direct, yet eloquent, writings should remain a strong part of the story of what it is to be an American.  Equal parts dry text and awed wonder, it is a must read.<br />A spiffy book, in the same vein as the acclaimed Sierra Club format series, of which I suspect this book may have been intended to be part.  Enjoy this essential part of any Western library.	2002-03-20
US	39773708	R1TE2T2Q74PNBC	0824014375	212023862	ODD JOHN (The Garland Library of Science Fiction)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A first-rate superman novel	This is one of the first superman novels, and still, by all that is holy, simply the best.  John Wainwright, born in England of mixed ancestry parentage has super abilities, a very slow maturation rate, extreme longevity, and amazing mental powers, among other things.  He is to Homo sapiens as Homo sapiens is to Australopithecus.  How does John cope in a world of what, to him, are hardly more than savage apes?<br />I can't tell of course; that would be unsporting.  Prepare to say that your sense of what is moral may receive a long-overdue examination upon completion of this absolutely fascinating book about how a superior being would cope with early 20th century mores, technology, politics, and social convention.  You will never forget the book, or John's answer to his plight.	2002-03-19
US	39773708	R17JBTMSQIX68R	0140178244	389297184	Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water, Revised Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	N	How the West was done (in).	This must-read book cuts across political, social, and economic lines in showing how the American West was sold out, chopped up, and done in by men of low moral tone, absolute lack of scruple, obsessive aim, and not least, no spine at all. Harsh words, perhaps, but read on.<br />You will read the story of Floyd Dominy, director of the Bureau of Reclamation, who was a man of immense sexual appetites, little capacity for discipline, and an enormous ambition for power, regardless of expense to one and all, except himself. The tales of how he captivated, and literally owned certain key congressmen are enough to make one retch. Left to his own devices, Dominy would have dammed up the Grand Canyon, Dinosaur Monument, the canyons in Canyonlands and Arches National parks, and anything else where concrete could be poured and contractors kept happy. Who paid for all this TVA-West stuff? You and I are STILL paying for it, not in taxes, but in loss of scenic grandeur that was your birthright until Dominy and his crooked pals got hold of it. Probably the only good thing James Watt did was fire this malefactor of governmental power. <br />Read about William Mulholland and how he jammed the water plans for Los Angeles down others' throats, and how he passed buck when things failed. Again, the corruption and intrigue are unbelievable and disgusting. <br />Read how all these grandiose schemes will fail, and are failing. Lack of foresight, or active refusal to accept inevitable limitations, is the reason. As with all other societies based on irrigation and water hoarding, the house of cards created at the whim of private capital's shortsightedness will eventually fall. <br />When the next xerothermic climate period hits, as it did in 1240 A.D., and when Nebraska becomes a desert and Phoenix and Los Angeles wither, this book will serve as a reminder to both those evacuating the West, and those being forced to accept these refugees, that a sane water policy cannot be based on economicgain and venial whims of politicians and unscrupulous developers. Will anyone listen then? Stay tuned.	2002-03-16
US	39773708	R27W38EAL86WIQ	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	5	5	9	N	N	One of the best books ever	There may be people who find the narrative unbelievable. Regarding such people, one is minded of the definition of a cynic as one who knows the cost of everything and the value of nothing.<BR> The book is an inherently believable narrative of one who was willing, with his companions, to risk all for freedom. So was the girl they met. That part of the tale will make you weep, as when the men gave her a flower for her hair. It should not surprise anyone that the girl was not raped, since, by way of background, she was one with the men. <BR> It becomes a tragedy beyond words when the girl, and one of the men, die in the Gobi Desert, but the party perseveres, just as when people died on the Oregon Trail, and in first crossing Death Valley. These two episodes also seem unbelievable, but they occurred, thus refuting the mean-spirited.<BR> Two more of the men die while crossing Central Asia and the Himalayas. But four of the original seven make it to India. <BR> Far from being a contrived fiction, the book appears to this writer to reflect a triumph of the human spirit. It is also offers keen insight into the difference between \\"civilization\\" and the inherent decency of man to his fellows. The book will make you swell with pride, bring tears to your eyes , and cause you reflect deeply and repeatedly, but you will never forget it.	2002-03-15
US	39773708	R3VM0BA1WXK00I	0486200949	829319690	The Exploration of the Colorado River and Its Canyons	Books	5	29	37	N	N	An epic narrative by an epochal figure	John Wesley Powell, for better or worse, made the American West what it is today.  He was the primary founder of the Bureau of Reclamation, the agency that has vandalized the West, and of the United States Geological Service.  He also completed the last great feat of exploration on American soil when he and his cohorts undertook the voyage that is the main subject of this book.  That the book combines two voyages into one epic adventure is not widely known, but it does not detract from the narrative to any meaningful extent.<br />Powell's narrative of the so-called Grand Canyon voyage is simply, yet powerfully, written, even carrying touches of the poetic.  It is easy to sense his feelings of awe and wonder, particularly in exploring the canyons themselves.   Powell never put his main function, scientific discovery, out of mind until the race through the Grand Canyon became one against the calendar as well as the power of the river.  Even then, his writing evidences a sense of charity and concern toward his men.   <br />Powell's narrative evokes many vivid memories of the beauty and timelessness of the country he explored, particularly his writings on the now-vanished Glen Canyon.  It seems a pity, somehow, that much of what he saw is buried under stagnant, polluted reservoirs, the worst of which ironically carries his name.   Would this brilliant, feeling man approve?  I do not think so.<br />The growing recognition of the role native Americans have played in our country's history and development would find a more sympathetic vein with Powell, and his studies of ethnography and acclimatation to the arid habitat by native Americans may prove a more lasting memoir.  These parts of the book should be read with equal care.<br />As to the canyons themselves, Powell would be the first to tell you that the artificial plug of stone at Page, Arizona, is only temporary, and that, as with the volcanic debris at Lava Falls, the river will soon have its way again.	2002-03-15
US	39773708	RJD2M3XKNDA8B	9997413415	441663101	Night Flight	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A most evocative book	This is an epic narrative of a single evening in the Argentine night mail service.  The chief character is the air manager, with peripheral characters being pilots, pilots' wives, and other personnel.  Without spoiling the plot, an unexpected crisis occurs in the way of a trans-Andean storm, and the pace quickens to unforgettable climax.<br />  But read the book.  It's short, and not so much as a phrase is excess weight.  A spine-tingling thriller about men in crisis, and the women who wait alone.  You may grimace at the manager's resolve, but you will never forget him or the pilot coming from far southern Argentina.  A masterful insight into the days when character was a desirable thing and profit wasn't the only motive for excellence.	2002-03-14
US	39773708	R3EK8G23XUZERM	0156970902	344928933	Wind, Sand and Stars	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enjoy the wonder of unadulterated genius at work.	I believe this is the greatest book by one of the best authors of all time.   To open a St. Exupery book is to think of the spring sun on a cold, cloudy January day.  Where does one go from here?  To St. Exupery's soliloquy on finding a meteor in the sands of the Sahara?  To his tale of surviving the rigors of the desert?  To his description of night over the South Atlantic?<BR>It is a question that cannot be answered.  One should not even try, but should only linger rhapsodized over each description of even the most mundane things by this irresistable wordsmith.  Some people never wrote badly, even once.  He was one of them and the world is much poorer for his early departure.  At least he left this peerless work about early mail pilots.  Adieu, mon cher ami.	2002-03-14
US	39773708	R3CN8G1DQNK088	0753504014	719146476	Impact Earth: Asteroids, Comets and Meteoroids, the Growing Threat	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Cryptoscience at best.	There is something more than vaguely disconcerting about those who marshall armies of fact, then, having done so, proceed to put a highly speculative, &quot;must be a conspiracy somewhere, somehow&quot; twist on it all.   This book would have been a lot better without Nostradamus, Genesis, and all that conspiracy glop.  As it is, I wasted my money.  Stick to the facts, and maybe, just maybe, someone will believe you.	2002-03-13
US	39773708	R346FINI8YAINT	0471193380	420600153	Rogue Asteroids and Doomsday Comets: The Search for the Million Megaton Menace That Threatens Life on Earth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ignore speculation and you have a good book..	I liked the book, but do not rate it as highly as \\"Rain of Iron and Ice\\" by John S. Lewis and \\"Impact\\" by Gerrit L Verschuur.  However, it is much better than \\"Fire on Earth\\" by John and Mary Gribben.  <BR>   My chief reservation about Steel's work is that he seems easily drawn to flights of whimsy such as Clube's and Napier's contentions regarding Beta Taurid cometary impacts that have affected history on a mammoth scale.  While these are captivating proposals, perhaps, there isn't enough hard scientific evidence for them clutter up what was otherwise a hitherto fine scientific presentation of a real problem  by Steel.  Up to the author's dalliance into the speculative, the book is a good read about a serious, overlooked, preventable threat.  His admonitions should be taken seriously.	2002-03-11
US	39773708	RJWTU915G6RSN	0231037333	454539027	Pleistocene Mammals of North America	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An indispensible reference	As one fascinated by the Ice Age, especially vanished megafauna, I looked for a long time for a comprehensive book on vanished Ice Age animals of North America.  This is it.  <BR>   The treatise is exhaustive in terms of what was known up to the publishing date.  If it is read carefully, it will impart a knowledge of these interesting animals and also give the reader an excellent backgound on the Pleistocene ice advances.  The authors' discussion regarding the breakdown of time periods is excellent. <BR>    Even though the passage of time and new findings, particularly in Florida, have lessened the value of some of the data presented, the book remains a peerless review of a dynamic part of Earth's history.  <BR>    Caveat:  The reader should have some background in zoology and anatomy, otherwise constant recourse to a dictionary may be required.	2002-03-11
US	39773708	R1WEAUZ71CTO8I	0201154943	419858014	Rain Of Iron And Ice: The Very Real Threat Of Comet And Asteroid Bombardment (Helix Books)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The best book for the lay reader	This book is a natural five-star.  It clearly and eloquently discusses the threat from asteroids and comets.  The scenario of a SMALL asteroid falling in the Philippine Sea should be eye-opening to even the most jaded.  Also especially worth reading are the chapters on Mercury and on computer created scenarios of falls over a century's time.  The book maintains a steady pace throughout, and is a must for anyone interested in meteoritics.	2002-03-11
US	39773708	R143BHGCP10WLB	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Less than a perfect world.	In a perfect world, people would have been too civilized to allow such a monstrosity as Glen Canyon Dam ever to have been built.   Ed Abbey knew this and his book shows, albeit a tad too profanely, what such eco-terrorism on the part of governmental agenices can provoke. That the most beautiful canyon in the world is buried under beer-can and gasoline polluted water shows that it was Floyd Dominy, not George Hayduke, who was the true barbarian.  The opening passage on blowing up the Glen Canyon bridge is priceless.  I don't advocate such things, but they do become understandable when you read this book	2002-03-10
US	39773708	R2NDPNL1ZL0IVR	0312208812	195546958	Volcano Cowboys: The Rocky Evolution of a Dangerous Science	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Government money well spent	The title of this review may seem curious, but I believe the USGS quick response team and observatory are a prime example of what government should do. These folks saved innumerable lives at Pinatubo, and will undoubtedly do so again somewhere else at a place we don't yet know. The book is worth four stars for its description of the people, and the principles they used in thwarting a catastrophe in the Philippines. The narrative of how this eruption, as well as those of Ruiz and St. Helens, were confronted shows how far we've come, and how far we have to go. The villians, if any, are the print-first, save-people-second administrators. <BR> The book is a comfortable read, not easily put down. It won't make you a volcanologist, but it will show you how you could be saved by one. A good book, and thought-provoking	2002-03-10
US	39773708	R3B717GRJQKNVC	0345326490	316822403	Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Simply the best	This book is the one that got me started going out West over a quarter century ago. I've never regretted it and read the book about every other year along with \\"Slickrock\\", (another Abbey masterpiece), for old times' sake. <BR> Ed Abbey always maintained he wrote to eat. He would have scoffed at allegations that his first book was a brilliant, evocative, militant, sentimental, enormously literate, invitation to help preserve what was left, (even though it is). Lake Foul, behind Glen Canyon Damn, broke his heart, but he remained a vibrant influence for free thinking until his death. This book, though it was his first, is still his best memorial. If you don't read it, it is your loss.<br />There may be people who won't like it because it presents a viewpoint too easily eschewed in today's Enron-ethic climate.  They are the ones who should read it most.	2002-03-10
US	39773708	RXRE3QVXNC0VT	0881922153	346904309	Cataclysms on the Columbia (Scenic Trips to the)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A very good tour book	This book excellently explains why the eastern half of the State of Washington and the lower Columbia valley are so curiously carved.   It also shows how a truly observant scientist works, even though his vindication may be slow in coming.  While some persons might wish for more color photographs, I believe the black and white format, particularly in the Grand Coulee region, better shows the power and scope of the floods that carved these otherworldly channels from bare lava rock.  The drawing of a typical Bretz flood has to be seen firsthand to be believed.  Another exemplary book on the geology of the West.  Don't see Grand Coulee or the Columbia Gorge without reading this book.	2002-03-10
US	39773708	R1DNLILFFGDPU9	0226668126	129256661	After the Ice Age: The Return of Life to Glaciated North America	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Best book I've read in the last 20 years	Shazam!! This book may be the most fascinating work I have ever read. It opened my eyes to so many new things, such as a map of glaciated Quebec 7,000 years ago, vanished proglacial lakes as big as Alberta and 800 miles long, the overkill explanation for the the disappearance of North American megafauna, the whys of the Channeled Scablands, etc., etc. It has extraordinary passages on the changing of the courses of major rivers, the return of biota to formerly glaciated regions, the spread of fish species on the North American continent, and contains very realistic pencil drawings of various ice age animals, especially the short-faced bear. The maps alone make the book worth a five star rating. I had seen articles and read books on many of these topics previously, but Professor's Pielou's easily readable, expressive prose integrates all of these concepts as a seamless whole in a peerless manner. If you are at all interested in the Ice Ages, caution: this book can easily make you into a passionate devotee. A musthave-mustread-mustkeep at the head of the bookshelf treatise. A pity five stars is the maximum rating. I'd have gone higher.	2002-03-10
US	39773708	R27MEKYKU1XJ8V	0821756087	573284289	The Dinosaur Heresies: New Theories Unlocking the Mystery of the Dinosaurs and Their Extinction	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Captivating, if not always correct	Any dinosaur enthusiasist should have this book.  The text is eminently readable, and many of the proposls made are ahead of their time and thought-provoking.  The drawings are excellent and more realistically approximate the probable apppearance of dinosaurs, especially ceratopsins, than any others I've seen.<BR>Bakker is entitled to his occasional displays of hubris given the number of times he has successfully defied convention and been proven correct.  However, I cannot agree with his theories regarding extinction of these animals, since the impact theory is simply too compelling in terms of hard evidence.  Only for this reason do I not give the book a five star rating.  Even so, it is a must read.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	R1MQJKJK6BGX1Z	1563318296	664584609	Atlas of the Prehistoric World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An unparalleled view into deep time	For anyone with an interest in paleontology, this book is very good.  For anyone with an interest in paleogeography, the book is indispensible and a treasure.  <BR>   The 50 pages of maps, while assuredly based in some part on learned conjecture, provide an unmatchable sense of the history of drifting continents and where these may have been located at various points in deep time.  For example, one can view the formations in the Colorado Plateau, and read innumerable treatises on them, but only when this book illustrates where North America was during the Triassic and Jurassic periods does the arrangement and appearance of rock beds in such places as Zion and Capitol Reef National Parks make easy sense.  Even absent any other reason, if you are reading this review, you owe it to yourself to buy this book.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	RQUX6IIUZJVNZ	0878441212	364587477	Carolina Rocks!: The Geology of South Carolina	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A  capable review of an underpublicized geologic area	I bought this book in Charleston, S.C., the site of the East Coast's biggest earthquake since the Republic was founded.  It seems less and less people know that.  Likewise, the Carolina Bays seem an increasingly obscure geological phenomenon.  This book will cure those gaps in the general public's knowledge and provide an entertaining, competent read at the same time. The State of South Carolina has many other fascinating features, each of which are discussed in a manner that is neither demeaningly simple nor unduly complex.  The book could have used more photos, particularly color shots of the state's western areas, many of which are subtle beauty spots the year around.   This book is a fine guide, however, and is one of the better state-based geology texts.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	RKCGGYHRR4VSH	0312155298	375860108	Fire on Earth: Doomsday, Dinosaurs, and Humankind	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Where's the beef?	Meteoritics and impact phenomena are a fascination of mine and, with some anticipation, I purchased this book.  I was disappointed.  The treatment of impacts and their consequences was cursory for the most part and frequently conclusionary rather then illuminating.  While the book contained a few facts not found in other, similar volumes, I felt book was written from hunger rather than love, if you will.  The science and logic were frequently off the mark, in my view.  Not the sort of book one would read for an in depth understanding of the topic.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	RRWXIA0PX1J1Z	0878423737	597986013	Rocks from Space: Meteorites and Meteorite Hunters (Astronomy)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A  fine basic review of a little known field	My primary interest in the area of meteoritics is impact strucures.  This book offers a fair discussion of that field, but is primarily concerned with meteorites and those who hunt, collect, and sell them.  In these respects, Norton's presentation is unparalleled.   The book is an easy, enjoyable read and may be perused by persons with no background in meteoritics.   The biographical sketches of Ninenger and Haag alone give unique worth to the book.<BR>   The only real reservation keeping this book from a five star rating is its Apprndix C, listing suspected impact craters.  Several of the listed items appear nowhere else in the impact literature I have reviewed and the listed size of many features varies from other calculations.   But, then, I should do so good.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	R1YSNVB7C86M2B	0374522596	875149572	The Control of Nature	Books	5	11	13	N	N	McPhee: Nobody does it better	At the start, I must confess that I am a John McPhee fan, commencing with \\"Coming into the Country\\" and proceeding through books on oranges, birchbark canoe making, atomic bombs as propulsion devices, etc. His books on America's geology are excellent. Even so, I like this one best. <BR> McPhee has the apparently inexhaustible ability to take sometimes dry textbook subjects and give them a human touch, much in the manner of the late George R. Stewart. This was especially borne out in McPhee's discussion of what is probably a vain attempt, in the long run, to control the lower Mississippi River. <BR> After reading this book, I happened to travel to Natchez, Mississippi, and went on down to see the Old River Flood Control Structure. Having read McPhee aided me considerably in understanding this herculean endeavor. McPhee demonstrated a similar excellence in writing about the landslide problem in Los Angeles. <BR> True enough, McPhee's book includes few graphs, charts, or photos. However the excellence of his descriptive prose obviates any claim that the informative nature of the text is somehow meaningfully diminished. Buy it. Read it. Keep it. You'll be glad you did.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	R1K5GECA0XY7L0	0374523932	276320707	Assembling California	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A very good text, if limited in scope.	I am an unabashed McPhee fan.  See my review of &quot;In Control of Nature&quot;.  However, this book does not rate the usual five stars, owing to a decision McPhee probably had little hand in making: the book's title.  So far as he peoples this book with the usual McPhee genre of characters, and so far as McPhee explains the geological considerations he addresses, i.e., CENTRAL California, the book is a great read, and would easily serve as fine regional geology textbook.  However, the book neither addresses volcanic Northern California nor the area south of the Tehachapis to any meaningful extent.   In that sense, the book was disappointing.   I still recommend the book, but I feel potential readers should not be misled by an overbroad title.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	RR3ER3587IWFJ	0472065343	664928918	Ancient Life of the Great Lakes Basin: Precambrian to Pleistocene (Great Lakes Environment)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A  valuable text on Pleistocene megafauna	Pleistocene megafauna lived in my home state until appproximately 8,000 years ago.  I am currently working on a possible trade book in the area.  Holman's book has proven invaluable as a research text and resource material.  It is well organized, well written, and entertaining. <BR>    While Paleozoic life in Michigan is not high on my list of interests, I believe anyone so inclined would apply my assessment to that topic as well.  A must read for the paleontology buff.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	R2BTJKC12Z3EYK	0195105974	294578711	Windows into the Earth: The Geologic Story of Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An indispensible visitor guide	A friend loaned me this book two months ago.  I haven't returned it yet.  It is simply the best book on these two parks that I have ever read.  The authors accurately portray the very considerable geological power present in each park, and yet do not manage to make either park a fearful place to be avoided.  Instead, their writing is a persuasive invitation to visit these wonderful manifestations of nature for an extended period.  I was particularly impressed by the visitor's tour set out near the end of the book.  I took a part of that tour in 1994, and the narrative is very accurate.  I will certainly use my OWN copy of the book when I go back again this autumn.  (I don't want anyone to think I don't return borrowed books!) This book is an absolute musthave-mustread for anyone going to the parks or interested in the geological processes that have made the West. Enjoy.	2002-03-09
US	39773708	R1QYEAPLRX4H87	052143811X	950724144	Volcanoes of North America: United States and Canada	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent guide for the initiated	This is no book for someone not previously familiar with volcano technology.   That much aside, the book is an absolute gem for anyone planning a trip to the Cascade Range, California, or other volcanic area of the continental USA or Canada.  A must-have for anyone geeked on volcanoes.	2002-03-08
US	39773708	R2CG0S8FXADWLY	0874804329	56803107	Canyonlands Country: Geology of Canyonlands and Arches National Parks	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An excellent field guide	As one who has traveled, and will continue to travel and explore, the Colorado Plateau extensively, I find all of Mr. Baars' works both useful and entertaining. This one is no different.  Mr. Baars has an excellent grasp of the geological complexities of this wonderful area and shares his enthusiasm and keen insights well.  I would like to see more photography, especially color, because I believe it is important to visualize an area before seeing it in real life, if for no other reason than to enhance photographic opportunities.  Even in this minor absence, the book is a great read,and heartily recommended for any student of the Plateau.	2002-03-08
US	39773708	R257S0MGO5WP9I	087842220X	115912938	Fire Mountains of the West: The Cascade and Mono Lake Volcanoes (Roadside Geology Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A useful, accurate guide to a beautiful, exciting region	Stephen Harris may be one of the last non-specialist authors. He doesn't confound the reader with copious scientific jargon. Insstead he conveys his love for what may be one of the last wild regions in the United States. In addition to excellent, understandable discussions of each volcano's potential danger and past history, Harris' technique enables the reader to use his book and a simple road map to plot the reader's own choice of which delightful scenic areas to visit.We visited the Oregon and southern Washington Cascades, as well as Mount Shasta, last September, and without Harris' well-planned guidebook, we would have missed many sights, such as Mount Newberry, and would have failed to fully appreciate others, such as the Columbia Gorge. <BR>Harris' doesn't overwhelm the reader with propaganda about environmental spoliation by logging companies, but simply lets the facts speak for themselves. The book is an absolute must for anyone planning a vacation, in whole or in part, in the Cascades or Mono Lake region.	2002-03-07
US	39773708	R1WP24P3MP5A7P	1879728036	662364789	The Southwest Inside Out: An Illustrated Guide to the Land and Its History	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A comprehensive book, but-----	As one who finds the Southwest, particularly the Colorado Plateau, to be the most beautiful, thought-provoking, and inspiring place on Earth, I purchased this book with a great deal of anticipation.  A cursory review at the Arches N.P bookstore revealed that the photography was excellent, even sublime.  The collection of photographs avoids the trite, road tourist views in good measure, and presents the topics from a fresh, seldom-visualized viewpoint.  The sections on slot canyons, hoodoos, and natural bridges were particularly entertaining.        The textual treatment was less impressive, dwelling in most part on fundamental things any roadie would glimpse.  I would have preferred a more detailed discussion on the \\"why\\" of the formations and features.  So far as gaining a deep understanding of what has made the Southwest the world's premier geological wonderland, other books may be more appropriate.       This being said, I was nonetheless enchanted by the book.  I have visited every national park, most of the national monuments, and many of the out-of-the way marvels.  So have the book's authors and I am impressed with their care of the subject. Especially for the first-time visitor to the Southwest, I would count the book an essential read.	2002-03-06
US	39773708	R2D3Q78RKFKJ5E	0060958901	268898540	No Apparent Danger: The True Story of Volcanic Disaster at Galeras and Nevado Del Ruiz	Books	4	4	5	N	N	WHEN SCIENTISTS GO TOO FAR	I was impressed by the overall tenor of the book, but found it murky in terms of continuity at times.  The last few chapers clear up much of the confusion.  The book is to be lauded for its capable detective work and straightforward nature of revealing what is not only a human tragedy, but a scientific scandal. <BR>    Dr. Williams has been a master of self-aggrandizement ever since the Galeras incident.  He seems oblivious to the role of his own neglect in causing the tragedy.  I have observed this on several television interviews involving him. <BR>    This carefully-researched book brings this unfortunate series of attributes forth without malice or rancor being shown: a prodigious task in light of the plain facts.<BR>    As with other human endeavors, science is prone to human frailties such as pride, unduly tenacious stubbornness, and simple inattention.  This book is valuable in presenting a prototypical instance of that deficiency.  One can only hope that, with the passage of time, the unfortunate Professor Williams will reflect more on what was truly  an avoidable mishap, and strive less to attempt to vindicate the unvindicatable	2002-03-06
