US	39847954	R2OKO4J0M6QKCX	0060937610	144168217	The Ultimate Brownie Book: Thousands of Ways to Make America's Favorite Treat, including Blondies, Frostings, and Doctored Brownie Mixes	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Whoa, Brownies!	This is truly a great book for anyone who simply enjoys baking but much more for all those brownie lovers out there. I agree with the title, \\"ultimate\\", no doubt about it! <br /> <br />This book has a great format dividing the numerous recipes into brownies and blondies. If you love both, it gives instructions on how to change and control the texture of them to make them more fudge-like or cake-like. Marvelous! The instructions are really basic, simple-to-use, and helpful even though if you've baked brownies once, you know how to make them for life. The ingredients aren't too hard to get most of the time so with a little experimentation, you'll be churning out the hits in no time.  <br /> <br />It has a final section on icings, coverings, and frostings. They're all delicious and easy to make and include a few variations. Each recipe suggests one or two forstings that would complement it well so that makes it all the much easier to match flavors. With so many variations, if you wanted, you'd never stop creating new flavors for your family to enjoy. <br /> <br />I know I sound very enthusiastic about this book but I have good reason to do so. I really have nothing negative to say about this book, except maybe I would've liked some pictures but really, the recipes are so good that I'm not subtracting any stars for this. My family has enjoyed these creations for quite awhile now. A few favorites are the Peanut Butter Brownies, the Mint Brownies, the Coconut Blondies, the Coca-Cola Brownies, and the Chili Pepper Brownies (yes, chili pepper!) This truly is one of my favorite cookbooks.	2005-06-23
US	39847954	R3403DA9R7QWUX	076453940X	590287417	Betty Crocker Cookie Book	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Wonderful Cookie Book!	Out of all the names in cookie books out there, Betty Crocker is one of the most, if not the most, famous. This fame was gained with good reason. Dozens of generations have grown on Betty's goodies and it shows in that she remains hugely popular throughout the years. <br /> <br />This book honors the Betty Crocker good name. Dozens of oh-so-yummy different recipes for eevryone to enjoy. The variety is quite astounding as she has more than enough cookies to fill up several chapters ranging from drop cookies, bar cookies, shaped cookies, kids cookies, etc. She even has a special chapter that's bound to become very useful in this day and age, dedicated to cookies for special diets. Here you'll find several treats for people on diets or with conditions such as diabetes or certain food allergies. I'd name some of the family's favorite recipes but there are really to many to mention! <br /> <br />Betty's instructions are, as usual, very simple to follow through and not only that, she even makes it easier on you by providing little tips on baking startegies, ingredient substitutions, etc. on almost all of the recipes. This makes it a cinch to turn out perfect cookies every time no matter what your baking skill is like. <br /> <br />I'd just like to highly recommend this book. It's a big favorite of my family and I've baked endlessly from it and not had anything fail me from it yet. They've been perfect as gifts, treats, to sell, and to cure the occasional boo-boo. This is as great as home-baked goodness can get!	2005-06-23
US	39847954	R2SJOGCC0NAB94	0809235447	575385007	Cheesecake Extraordinaire : More than 100 Sumptuous Recipes for the Ultimate Dessert	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Look No Further!	I have got to say that this is definitely the best cheesecake book ever. Initially, I was shopping around for one since my boyfriend's favorite dessert was cheesecake. I ran across this and decided to get it. Well, one of the best choices I could ever make, I think. This is an amazing book!  <br /> <br />Starting from the recipes which are so numerous and so varied that they have to be divided into beverage-based, chocolate, vanilla, candy, etc., even one for light cheesecakes! Honestly, deciding which one to try the first time around was the toughest challenge when starting out. Well, I followed the instructions clearly,  as well as the first section on tips to avoid it cracking and boy, did it ever come out wonderfully! I never looked back. I've baked from it endlessly for some years now, tasting practically all of the recipes included. It's gotten to the point where I may soemtimes tweak the recipe and/or ingredients a bit and it still comes out great! My family has enjoyed all sorts of different flavors and many of my family members and friends have converted and use nothing but this to bake cheesecakes also. My copy is so beat-up from use, it may be time to get a new one. Did I mention that this is also a beautiful book? Full of wonderful (yummy-looking) glossy pictures. <br /> <br />My only (tiny) complaint is that on occasion, some of the ingredients may be a little hard to get but nothing too major and definitely nothing's that stopped me yet.  <br /> <br />I do have other cheesecake books which people have given me over the years but due to simplicity, astounding variety and plain old wonderful results, this is the one I recommend the most.  <br />	2005-06-23
US	39847954	R2OZ89ANQW4HCT	0060198796	253949639	Perfect Cakes	Books	3	29	32	N	N	Looks divine but lacks more explanation	Well, first of all, this is a beautiful cookbook. It's got lots of glossy pictures of delicious-looking cakes and an extensive guide on cooking implements. Yup, beautiful.<br /><br />Now, I did expect, coming from a very famous, skilled chef, to get a book that wasn't exactly what you'd call simple. Of course, his experience was going to show somewhere so no, I didn't expect easy stuff. But I'm something of an avid baker so even if I don't have any professional training, I do pretty well in the kitchen. Imagine my surprise when several of his recipes did flop on me. This is ridiculous! I'm one to follow instructions to the best of my abilities but I think he takes for granted that you know so much more on so many levels than any non-chef does. I never did try the failed recipes again but did try others and fared a little better. They really are delicious.  Still, I don't like thinking when I start baking that there's a 50% chance that the recipe may not come out well.<br /><br />Never had any trouble at all baking extensively from other books. This one, I'm getting a little bit better but by trial and error, not through useful insight gained from the book. But the best part, this book does inspire me to keep trying.<br /><br />I'll get your cakes yet, Nick Malgieri!	2005-06-23
US	39847954	RW09EKOGR65M2	0811843785	590931588	Andy Warhol Fashion Mix and Match Stationery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	No soup cans here...	Well, the name of this set does say it all. Fashion! That's the theme of this mix & match stationery set. I liked it a bit more than some of the other mix & match stationery sets out there. The paper quality is a teensy bit better with this set as the paper is slightly thicker. <br /> <br />The illustrations are very colorful and pretty, it has drawings and he complements each with colors such as bright blue and fuchsia. The drawings are all bold and enjoyable ranging from a pattern of high-heeled shoes or little kisses to a close-up of a very Warhol-esque face. At the top of each sheet, there are little quotes of Andy's relating to fashion. Very cool for maintaining the overall theme, I think. The different colored-envelopes each have a flap that more or less complements one of the particular sheet designs but of course, as the name suggests, it's all open to a little mix&match. Finally, there are quite a lot of stickers to decorate your mail as your will dictates. They're very pretty too including purses, mannequins, kisses, and oh, they're the clear kind so they look a little bit more distinguished. <br /> <br />All in all, a very good way to spruce up your everyday mail. Get it especially if you're a fan of Andy Warhol or a die-hard fashionista.	2005-06-23
US	39847954	R1PE62ECP15TMR	081184384X	460821437	Hemlines: Mix and Match Stationery	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Perfect for the retro fashionista crowd	I enjoy the Mix & Match stationery trend very much so I had to try this. I didn't love it but I liked it well enough. The paper quality is, as with most of these sets, not that good so don't try writing with anything heavier than a ballpoint or the ink'll bleed to the other side. <br /> <br />The illustrations on the sheets are cute, depicting old-fashioned clothing patterns. Think McCall's catalog models from the 50's and 60's. This is especially wonderful for people who enjoy all the retro vibe so strong these days. The envelopes are also nice printed in half-made clothes (don't know how else to say it) with little shaded \\"windows\\" for the sender and recipient's names & addresses. The stickers included further add to the fun in the shape of little scissors, buttons and zippers. Clothes-making all the way! <br /> <br />All in all, cute and a little girly. Get it if you like variety in your stationery and especially if you like retro stuff.	2005-06-23
US	39847954	R3FWPGKX2DMSUM	0684859106	81851552	The Magnolia Bakery Cookbook: Old-Fashioned Recipes From New York's Sweetest Bakery	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sweet eats...	What sweet treats Alyssa Torey and Jennifer Appel whip up in this wonderful cookbook! I haven't yet had the good fortune of visiting the Magnolia Bakery when in NYC but I've heard so much about them. I'm a sucker for classic old-fashioned desserts (Mexican family, loving the kitchen, all sorts of goodies, what can I tell you?) and got this book along with the \\"More From Magnolia\\". Well... in the course of only a few days, I'd baked about 5 different desserts from both the books. They're wonderful! The Chocolate Buttermilk Cake with Chocolate Buttercream was an especially big hit... marvelous! <br /> <br />It's true that this book is not a primer on baking and you should have at least a basic knowledge but the instructions are easy to follow and the pointers very helpful. I have to disagree with the reviewers who state that the recipes don't come out right. I love baking but I'm certainly no pro and I haven't had any problems whatsoever, neither have any friends or family members who have borrowed them.  <br /> <br />So, yes, expect to be breaking your diet often with the sweet, sugary goodness that you find in between the pages of this wonderful book. Very, very recommended!	2005-06-16
US	39847954	R3E5UKSQBIH7E1	1584792647	884928210	Simply She: People Really Like You - Cards That Make You Feel Good	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Cute	I liked these cards. They're great for fans of simple, understated things. They are on the smallish side and printed in a nice, thick cream-colored stock and they have cute sayings such as \\"people really like you\\", \\"everyone wishes they had your hair\\", and \\"you do not have a problem\\". I enjoyed them and my friends got a kick out of them on occasions when I've given some of them out.  Nice for giving, the backside somes in a postcard format so you can add a few of your own words and each one has a hot pink envelope to send it in. To complete the package, they come in a pretty sliding box you can reuse after you're done with the cards.	2005-05-06
US	39847954	R1RKQOIV7A04IQ	0811840964	759046422	Lotta Jansdotter Box of Labels	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Simple and elegant	I loved these labels by Lotta Jandsotter. Always one for writing letters, I was looking for a way to spruce up my correspondence. Well, these more than fit the bill and now I use them for gifts too (the ones marked \\"to\\" and \\"from\\" work especially well for this) and basically for labeling all sorts of stuff around the house.   So there you go, there's plenty of uses for them, the designs are very simple and elegant in soft scribbles, different shapes and sizes, and muted colors. True, the paper is matte and not as glamorous but it's thick, high-quality stock so it kinda makes up for it. Also, the variety of designs is astounding as she rarely repeats one.  Plenty of them to go around too and they come in a cute, reusable box too.	2005-05-05
US	39847954	R25IWR5J2E4MEJ	0312195702	802614448	Coping with Prednisone (and Other Cortisone-Related Medicines): It May Work Miracles, but How Do You Handle the Side Effects?	Books	3	62	66	N	N	Mixed Feelings	Seeing as I've been on prednisone for almost a year now, I thought it'd be a blessing to find this book. Well it was and it wasn't.     I certainly enjoyed the chatty tone this book takes when describing the changes Eugenia was going through, especially since they echoed my own claims of the changes the prednisone was giving me. I knew that these 15 extra lbs. weren't just slips in a healthful eating regime nor were natural the farewell I bid to a once delicate waist or an angulated face or the spacey feeling that assaults me each afternoon. Just the fact that someone acknowledged these symptoms made me feel less alone in my suffering. It made me understand a great deal.    However, the book is severely lacking long(er)-term solutions. The authors claim that \\"while on prednisone therapy, you should/shouldn't...\\", \\"avoid (whatever) while on prednisone\\". All this when making observations to avoid sugars, salt, and some other stuff. Well, I'm quite glad for the author that she ONLY had to take this medicine for a measly 10 months (even if she was sort of whiny about it at times), but there's so many of us looking at a lifetime treatment here and well, I, for example, teach several baking courses so avoding all sorts of sugar for the rest of my life is definitely not an option. The author says she got through by thinking \\"this is only temporary\\", well guess what? Sometimes it's not. There is no \\"while I'm on prednisone\\" for so many of us and that's a big mistake to make as well as a separate point the book lacks to address. An important one too, if you ask me.    I've been blessed enough to have my disease under control for a while now and my hopes for a really small dose of prednisone remain high as do a reduction of symptoms. This book helped me make sense of the things that are happening to me, knowing what to blame on the meds and what not to. However, there is no way I can use this book as a guide, not even to \\"cope with prednisone\\", as the title suggests. I enjoyed the book (read it cover to cover the day I received it) but I think the authors lacked a little more sensibility to think about people who are cursed with this remedy for more than mere months at a time and address these more serious concerns.	2005-05-04
US	39847954	RKLH1D9D6R9E0	0743246616	925868437	More From Magnolia	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Much better than the first	I'd seen the first Magnolia cookbook in a friend's shelf for awhile now and even though she'd never bake anything from it (she never uses them, just collects them), I'd been wanting to do so for a long time so on a whim, I ordered both books. I just received them two days ago and already I have tried THREE different recipes from this one. Yes, it is a bit much but after the first one, my family begged me (they didn't have to, really) to keep on trying more stuff. Even though I haven't baked extensively from it yet, I'm an avid baker and have the feeling that most of these recipes will turn out amazingly well as they look and sound positively delicious. And well, millions of customers at the bakery can't be wrong, these really are good desserts! <br /> <br />The recipes are varied and all use fairly simple ingredients (no running around for exotic stuff at the last minute). The directions are very simple and almost any level baker will feel totally at ease following them. Add to this that she begins by giving a few really basic pointers (just in case you need a few more moments to familiarize yourself with the kitchen) and you got a very comfortable starting point to a great baking experience. <br /> <br />On the downside, I guess I could've used a few more pictures of the finished products but honestly, the book was good enough to more than earn my 5-star rating. These are simple, home-y, old-fashioned, mostly high-cal desserts that will probaly bring you fond memories of your favorite baker, be it your aunt, grandma or in my case, my mom. A tradition I definitely want to follow in this day of cutting time in favor of convenience. This really helps! An amazing book... a new favorite of mine and one I definitely plan to keep on using.	2005-03-22
US	39847954	R2R16D029TH7WF	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Funny more than anything else...	I have a friend of mine who just totally swears by this book so on a lark, I borrowed it and read it. I wasn't looking to gain anything specific from it as I'm hapily coupled up but ended up enjoying it anyway.    Personally, I've never been a fan of how-to books, especially those that preach to our emotions and relationships with others. This one, however, was forgivable in that sense because it was so funny. Yes, it may have been \\"Sex and The City\\" which gave it its popularity but you need not meet the clods they sometimes did to be able to apply a few bits of this book.    Some of the advice you can get out of this book seems pretty obvious but then again, I think we all own a pretty basic concept of what's right and wrong in a relationship. This is where the funny bits come in. Just as the title suggests it'll force you a few times to admit (even if begrudgingly) things you could do different or better, only it'll make you do so in between laughs so it won't hurt as much. What you can learn from it, even if done in a very forward fashion, is not that life-altering or different from what this type of book has been preaching for years on end and can be resumed in a few key points you've surely heard before. So we shouldn't make excuses for the men in our lives? Ok. Point taken. Next...    So overall, I approached it not expecting to learn anything from it and true, I didn't learn that much but I can see why this book is a bestseller and has remained so for a while. It made me laugh and recall a few oafs with whom I crossed paths. So yes, worthwhile but don't expect it to change your life or anything.	2005-02-23
US	39847954	R2H05FAM2Q5VF9	0761134123	947891680	Three Black Skirts 2005 (Desk Diaries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not roomy enough...	I have to say that I loved Anna Johnson's \\"Three Black Skirts\\" so much that as soon as I found out that she had an engagement calendar out, I was pretty excited and determined that to be my calendar for 2005 based on the book I'd just read and all the information available here on Amazon about the calendar.  <br /> <br />Weeell, I just received it and I think I may have rushed just a little bit. Don't get me wrong, the calendar's beautiful. It has cool quotes and big, colorful, fun illustrations alongside the grids for each week but... it's just not roomy enough. The spaces for each day are waay small. You can't fit too much information about your engagements (or too many of them) or make too many random comments because they just won't fit. And even if they fit, it'll just look way too cramped. Not what I expected for someone so big on preaching about style. <br /> <br />I wish it came bound instead of spiral-bound as this makes the pages a bit hard to turn. The tables at the end of the calendar are not that useful but fun and the \\"personal freak-out\\" pages (blank pages for notes) are something I've come to rely upon on every engagement calendar I've ever owned but..only two measly pages for a whole year of notes?? Come on! <br /> <br />On the whole, this engagement calendar really IS all about style but not too much substance. For the busy woman, it may even be a little impractical. I am however, giving it 3.5 stars because if you don't care too much about these details, it is a very pretty, fun option.	2004-12-07
US	39847954	R89BGIZ0ZZOBF	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Jon Stewart at his best	It would be easy to think that the writers of the Daily Show are creative and resourceful enough to have enough material left over to make a completely incredible, really funny book. True, but they went even further and tackled an actual subject of everyone's concern nowadays. They do it in the same witty, irreverent style that has garnered The Daily Show numerous prizes from comedy ones to (gasp) news-source ones.  <br /> <br />They get into the subject right off the bat by staging it into an interestingly funny text-book style. I appreciated it, it took me back to basic elementary school. The satire is present all through the book and it'll make you think at times and laugh out loud at others...you'll be doing both most of the time. <br /> <br />I don't agree with the reviews that state that this book is a liberal attempt to ridicule George Bush. Not so. It is politics at its most ample from a liberal's point of view which is quite different. No one comes out alive from this one. Not Bush, not his detractors, not anyone. Ridicule? No, not more than he maybe does on the show.  <br /> <br />Overall, I have to give this 5 stars not because I've been a longtime fan of Jon but because it's a book I thoroughly enjoyed even though I'm not given to politics at all. It is a very funny, and really smart read. Perhaps people with strong poilitcal preferences should approach it with an open mind but truly, enjoyable and recommended for all.	2004-09-23
US	39847954	R36YPHS9LKP92H	0811833402	406361608	Eames Textile Patterns: A Stationery Collection	Books	5	25	25	N	N	One of the best stationery boxed sets!	First off, I'd like to say how much I like letter writing and so, I'm a big fan of stationery sets. From boxed sets to fold & mails, I've tried them all and now I'll try to review them all :) This boxed set takes the cake for modern overall great quality as far as I'm concerned.  <br /> <br />The Eames textile designs are very modern, colorful and pretty. It's not too feminine or masculine so it's a great tool for anyone. 3 designs in 6 color combinations and envelopes to coordinate perfectly. The quality of the paper is second to none, thick enough stock, and the sheets are perfectly matchable with the sturdy envelopes so your letters will look quite sophisticated and classic. <br /> <br />The quality's very good for the price, esepcially if you consider it all comes in a reusable, decorated box. It's a great gift for anyone in your list or for yourself if you feel like a little something. It'll definitely jump-start and inspire some letters of your own. Very, very recommended!	2004-09-20
US	39847954	RZPJVP6V3UJ16	0811829014	328500722	Petals Deluxe Notecards	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Classy	These are classy, understated, feminine, pretty cards. The pictures are beautiful as are the colors. The best part however is the quality, no flimsy stock and envelopes here! The paper's thick and white and the envelopes are made of heavy white paper and green inside. <br /> <br />I liked all the pictures, in fact, I liked them so much that my only complaint is that there aren't more different motifs in the set or that he didn't include more colors in each design. All are beautiful, though. And they're blank too so any occasion's good for using them. <br /> <br />Great for any occasion and already packaged for gift-giving in a pretty petal-ed cardboard box with velcro flaps. Get it for someone else then you'll like it so much that you'll go out and buy one for yourself :)	2004-09-02
US	39847954	R1GJUX9YSU0F08	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	She'll annoy you at first but you'll LAUGH	I have to say I enjoyed this book, I really did. As one reader previously noted, I also found myself not believing how one can become so financially irresponsible, a little bit yes, it happens to all of us, but Becky Bloomwood irresponsible? Whoa! <br /> <br />It makes for a rather slow, unamusing start but it definitely picks up. I slowly found myself laughing at how she views her purchases and, I hate to admit it, enjoying her descriptions of them. The book unfolds very quickly because the narrative rings so true, it's almost like a conversation. The book finished on a high note, I was feeling good (makes sense since I laughed so much throughout it) and I'm actually looking forward qute anxiously for the sequel. <br /> <br />This is definitely not a deep read but it is a very enjoyable one. Sophie Kinsella's ample descriptions in this book made me wallow in a world of some luxe which it turns out I wasn't the only one not able to afford it...neither could Becky! But it was fun :)	2004-09-02
US	39847954	RE8S5OV2VFRPI	0811842630	579366509	Sushi-nery: Mix and Match Stationery	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Delicious!	What a wonderful little piece of stationery! I write a lot and enjoy the mix &amp; match trend and so, have bought a couple of these sets and have liked each of them to various extents. Believe me, none of them come close to the Sushi-nery set. <br />First off, you can't beat the cute name, can you? It made me smile but I got to love this set for other reasons. First of all, the designs are varied, creative, and very colorful. Not only that, this is the first TRUE mix &amp; match set I've ever seen. All others have a set pattern in both sheets and envelopes which just makes sense to put together every time and not in any other way. This one just lets you pair off any sheet with any envelope and it always looks great. <br />The paper is the same good quality as we've come to expect from Chronicle Books (not excellent but good enough and a fair value for the price) and includes colorful stickers to top it all off as well as special shaded spaces on the envelope to write the addresses. Oh, did I mention this is the only mix &amp; match stationery set that's got ruled paper? It's obvious they've come a long way since they first started making these sets and they're only getting better with time.<br />This is so good, I'm almost on my second Sushi-nery set already. I really recommend this to anyone who enjoys writing letters or any friendly note and to just about anyone with a little fun streak somewhere in there. You'll really enjoy it!	2004-07-12
US	39847954	RM0IH40GBTZ4D	0811837637	38757397	Bon Bon Fold & Mail Stationery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This is THE definitive fold &amp; mail.	I really like this stationery set. I'd seen a few other fold &amp; mail sets before but never liked them much due to crappy designs or low quality paper. I must confess I never even knew who Bon-Bon was before I got this book but she seemed cute enough so I decided to get it. I write a lot and ended up always using the same type of stationery. Bon-Bon fold &amp; mail is now the cutest variation my usual mail has suffered.<br />The stationery is whimsical and pretty. You've got five different designs (all very cute) and each one has a little different design on the inside too. The spaces in which to write have enough space for a short, sweet letter and are ruled just in case you tend not to keep things straight when writing on blank paper. <br />After folding, the letter looks especially pretty as each design has different-colored, coordinating lines on each of the flaps for closing. If you wish, you can also fit additional sheets of paper or pictures inside just as if it were an envelope.<br />The pages are made of good quality paper. Maybe not the best but thick enough not to let ink run through and not thin enough to make folding &amp; mailing dificult. It's good.<br />All in all, you get really good quality for the price, the designs are pretty and you'll definitely enojy writing and mailing this as much as people will enojy receiving it. I truly recommend it! :)	2004-07-07
US	39847954	R4EW6PCQN5F9	0811838323	546584970	Dots & Jots: Mix and Match Stationery	Books	3	27	28	N	N	Match and match	I very much agree with the previous review as I was going to note that here but found it already said. The paper quality is BAD. The design is printed on one side of thin paper so the &quot;white&quot; side isn't really white and forget about writing with a fountain pen or anything else other than ball-point for that matter, it'll probably bleed through. <BR>The design however, is kitschy and pretty. 70's and cool... I like that there's a corresponding envelope to each of the 4 designs of paper (unlike some other mix and match sets which never match at all). The colors and designs are what save this stationery set for me. I have to say, I liked it and I recommend it to give some variety to your usual stationery once in a while.	2004-07-05
US	39847954	R2X08LD3I8CIJM	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Feels real, so funny you'll cry...	Maybe by now it's too late to review this book since it's been a while since the movie came out and it was a very popular one. However, I consider the written word, books specifically, an art not to be lost. This is especially true in the form of this book. I'm not so much for classifying it under the term &quot;chick-lit&quot; as it's been done in some places. Yes, the heroine may be a woman, a single woman with common everyday struggles, but it lacks something every other &quot;chick lit&quot; book I've ever read has. There's no frivolous narrative here. True, she does complain a lot about the size of her thighs but even when she's deep into appearances, alcohol and men, she never stops feeling strangely real. I don't make a habit of saying this about any book but you'll feel as if you know Bridget for the very simple reason that she's made up of every woman you know, you included! The author did a great job of developing every single character in this book from the ones you'll love to the ones you'll hate. That alone is so deserving of praise. <BR>It's a very hard book to put down so prepare to be absorbed into the story, to laugh out loud quite a few times and to feel, even in some tiny way, oddly relating to Bridget's everyday tribulations. So yes, see the movie but definitely, definitely read this book, it's so much better.	2004-07-05
US	39847954	R2MEZEZ3O6A8RT	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Sequel as Good.	Bridget´s back and better than ever. That old thing about characters being played out and burned out in sequels doesn't play out in here. Helen Fielding did a great job of bringing Bridget back. <BR>True, her &quot;year&quot; is longer this time around, maybe due to the overhwelming popularity of the previous one. Also, a few of the things happening here seem like cheap shots put in merely for show (our Bridge in jail?) BUT I have to admit, the overall achievement is wonderful.<BR>The characters retain their marvelous structure from the first part and obviously, if you've read the first book, you'll catch right along with this one as far as characters' psychology goes. They're still loveable (some of them), hateable (the rest of them) but all utterly human and relatable.<BR>As far as the story and the narrative style go, I don't think I ever laughed so hard at any book ever before, not even the first Bridget book and I loved that one. Cheap shots or not, the truth is I've read it twice already and it's a fun read sure to pick me up anytime.<br />Thoroughly enjoyable whether you like the Bridget Jones movie or not. Highly recommended!	2004-07-05
US	39847954	RUGVJAPCJSK64	0060090375	122477335	Lucy Sullivan Is Getting Married	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not the best in the genre	Usually I very much enjoy these light, fun reads. Lucy Sullivan however was a far cry from any heroine I enjoy. The characters are well written and logical in their actions but any other character you'll like better than Lucy, in my opinion, she's too weak to be the heroine. Don't be misled, this is no Bridget Jones. Just as insecure and mundane but not as strong or funny.<br />Don't get me wrong, the book is well written and the story's kind of funny, you'll even laugh out loud in certain moments. Yet, the narrative dwindles down in certain moments, though, and makes for a few slow, boring passages. This surprised me coming from Marian Keyes as I'd enjoyed some of her other books very much and noted the entertaining, brisk pace she usually carries in her stories. <br />If you really enjoy this genre of &quot;chick lit&quot; to the fullest you can read this, even own it, and enjoy it very much. If you care about having some of the better titles out there, my suggestion would be to skip this one (or just borrow it) and find another one instead.	2004-07-05
US	39847954	R1KYHRUYFY0STD	140004992X	664724952	Dog Days Large Note Cards in a Magnetic-Closure Box (Potter Style)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Essential for the average canophile	If you like dogs, these are the notecards you have to have for any occasion that might arise. They're large and blank inside so they're appropriate for any event. They can be used as notecards, greeting cards, invitations, etc. You'll decide. They're also elegant since they come in plain white envelopes and are printed on really good stock. There's also an extra envelope to allow for one little goof.<br />The images on the cards are one of four different pictures of dogs. They're very pretty. Good photography and cute images. <BR>They also come in a really pretty large box with magnetic closure which you'll really like and use long after the cards are all gone.<br />You don't need to love or even like dogs to like this notecard set. It has everything a good set has, good color, good quality paper, enough cards and envelopes, fun enough and yet elegant, and a pretty box to store all of it, too boot. If you do love dogs however, I don't think you'd regret getting it.	2004-06-13
US	39847954	R36V6QQO5Z1BFE	0811828662	417355815	Lettres Stationary Box	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Pretty	I got this stationery set to give some variety to my mail which had started to look stale. I admit the antique French look this set goes for is nice and it gives it a warm, not-too-girly vibe.<br />The colors and patterns don't match exactly so it really is a question of you doing the mixing &amp; matching. It always looks good (unless you're purist about that kind of perfection thing in which case, this is not the set for you). Also, I liked that the paper is a good quality and the ivory color looks distinguished and good. The box is great and very elegant and has started to hold some of my treasured letters.<br />The only complaint? I'm into writing long letters (as I'm sure a lot of people who own this are) so 30 sheets and 30 envelopes will just leave me with a lot of envelopes left over long after I use up all the sheets. I'm starting to reserve this for my short letters (almost nonexistent) and thus, this set isn't getting all the use it could. <br />Manufacturers, more sheets than envelopes next time please!	2004-06-09
US	39847954	R34VFRF8HY06LI	1565301498	867827406	The Envelope Mill: Recycle Magazines into Beautifully Crafted Envelopes/Book and Templates	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Expected a bit more...	I enjoy crafting very much and I write letters like you wouldn't believe. Naturally, when I saw this book I knew that it could hold a lot of neat possibilities for making neat envelopes, greeting cards and the lots of fun projects with and about envelopes I imagined it would hold. <br />When I received it, I loved how the book is shaped like an envelope, thought it was really cute. When I started looking through it however, I noticed that it's basically just one thing and all the book revolves around the same idea. The book could've been a couple of pages long, detail the basics and merely include a legend that said &quot;for variety, use any kind of paper you can imagine&quot; instead of going on and on about it. I imagined it would have more different projects and not the whole book about just using the templates with different materials.<br />Now don't get me wrong, I've used it countless times, always with pretty results and the templates have been really useful. Still, for a whole book about crafted envelopes, I expected more out of it.	2004-06-09
US	39847954	R1RJSAARRZYXPA	1581803176	19258691	Creative Correspondence	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Create some of the prettiest mail out there	As someone with a lot of loved ones out-of-state, I usually give the post office a lot of business. I also like dabbling in crafts so I saw this book and decided to give it a try. Am I ever happy I decided to! I've created some beautiful pieces of mail and then some.<br />This book has got some of the greatest, easiest projects out there. The instructions are really clear and the authors' creativity really shines though in the photographs. They give loads of useful tips and instructions holding back nothing that could be useful to the reader. I have a few books of this genre and I must say I greatly appreciate the suggested variations on the projects as well as the detailed stencils and patterns they give for you to use in your own creations. Anyone can easily follow the steps and work with these ideas. They're simple and fun.<br />This book also turned me on to rubber stamping. I'm only stating but they make it seem so easy (it really is!) that it gave me confidence to go out and try it with beautiful results.<br />It doesn't only restrict itself to creating new cards, envelopes and paper, though. The section on deocrating paper is, I must admit, my favorite of the whole book and the one you'll usually find me following most often.<br />The best part of all of this? My mail has gotten SOO pretty and everyone tells me so. I've also created a few cards that some people have seen and asked to buy. My creativity is constantly tickled and I'm always trying something new. I like doing this and haven't yet seen a better card &amp; letter creating book than this one. I recommend it wholeheartedly to everyone. Get it, you won't be disappointed.	2004-06-08
US	39847954	R38FVGZ7E31D3E	1581801262	700419576	Making Greeting Cards With Creative Materials	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Great, easy art!	I like crafting very much. Greeting cards hold an especially dear place in my heart and I love to make them constantly. Just about everyone I know has received at least one homemade greeting card from me at one time or another. So yes, I'm always on the lookout for new books on the subject. This one, I have to say, is great!<br />It has innovative projects rnaging from the colorful, really creative ones to subtler, more elegant ones. There really is one for everyone and the instructions are very clear, detailed and, simple to follow. No crafter, regardless of skill, will have any trouble completing any of these cards. <br />The authors did a great job of writing this book. Also worthy is the creative use of rather unusual materials (for a card at least). I've been working with paper for a long time now and it still helped move some things inside of me which helped me come up with a whole set of new ideas on how to work and what to do. The pictures are great, you'll enjoy them and they'll inspire you to create some new, totally different projects of your own.<br />This is one book you'll definitely enjoy.	2004-06-08
US	39847954	RI69JMU7GMZQC	0895779838	654258006	Creative greeting cards (Reader's Digest)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Good techniques	I first purchased this book out of my love of giving out greeting cards on every occasion. I needed some new ideas and definitely got them here. This book has a lot of projects ranging in difficulty for the very beginner to the more advanced crafter. <br />A few of these projects are not that different from others you'll see in other books of this nature but they do have A LOT of pictures of finished projects and their variations that will inspire you to try something. <br />Some sections just made me say wow and I couldn't wait to try them...and didn't! I got really big raves (and a surge of satisfaction) from cards made from the abstract art chapter. I even took some of these ideas and turned them into letters and notepaper, that's how pretty they are. <br />Perhaps my only (tiny) complaint is that a few of these cards are old-fashioned looking. However, this is in no way bad or a catastrophe (I guess I complain because I'm younger than the average crafter and still look for something a bit more modern). Still, the book is so well rounded it even takes care of this little issue by boosting my creativity thanks to the dozens of photographs of the diverse finished projects. It's so beautiful, it definitely has me working creating my own stuff, stuff that I really love. Instructions are good and easy to follow. <br />I think crafters all over and just about anyone who wants cute projects to try will definitely enjoy it.	2004-06-08
US	39847954	R267SWYC1P0OEY	0823029816	847529985	Makeup: The Art of Beauty	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Clearly detailed for beginners	I found this book a delight to follow for a variety of reasons. The artist is definitely skilled and quite creative with her designs and use of color. This makes for a gorgeous array of artistic photographs throughout the book and shall be enjoyed no matter what your reason was for picking this book up. <BR>The level of skills described are more suited for a beginner I think. Still, if you're a pro or thinking of becoming one, she shares lots of tips on getting started, building professional relations with photographers and models, professional makeup, etc. Everyone can benefit from it.<BR>I myself am what one would call a girly-girl. I enjoy makeup and find it very amusing as a pastime, however, I'm most definitely not a pro. I was looking for a book that would give me some pointers and I definitely found what I was looking for here. The instructions on how to create the perfect smoky eye (I could never do it before) alone was worth the price of the book for me. Linda Mason's results on her models are very easy to recreate since her sketches are very simple and so, quite easy to follow. It's refreshing to find an artist that holds no tips or instructions back from her readers and instead chooses to &quot;educate&quot; them wholly. I salute Linda and I truly recommend this book.	2004-06-07
US	39847954	R3SZBR682CLSIY	0804111634	294561434	Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ms. Raisin - funny, witty &amp; fresh	I gotta confess that I was turned onto this book series only after I was looking for something of the sort after devouring all through the Goldy Bear series of Diane Mott Davidson. However, this quiche was all it took for me to become absolutely hooked. Ive long since found all the rest of the books in the series and read them. I love them! Agatha Raisin is a very well developed character. Shes laugh-out-loud funny, sarcastic, and in her very own grouchy way, quite endearing. The books storyline develops along seamlessly and in a very interesting manner. Id read that the British cozy movement had a great friend in M.C. Beaton. I definitely agree and recommend this book wholeheartedly to every mystery junkie and just about anyone with the itch to get their hands on a good book...or a good way not to mess up a quiche contest.	2004-05-02
US	39847954	RL07TSBIUZMBJ	0451409256	208908626	Making Minty Malone	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Jilted!	Well, the premise of this book came off a little bit different than the current trend. Here you have a heroine who's actually getting married instead of just wishing she were. Only...she doesn't. From then on, in discovering her lousy ex-fiancé, we start discovering more about Minty. I´m so sure many people will be able to relate to her niceness and the tendency to start tolerating things and not be able to stop (Dominic's abuse, the bossy Amber, her mom, her useless coworkers). <br />I'd read The Trials of Tiffany Trott but enjoyed this one more. I found it a bit more refreshing to embark in Minty´s adventure to discover herself and actually see her succeed at it than in the journey of a single girl in search of a man. What better way than to have Minty discover so many things in the company of well-written and developed characters? (you'll be annoyed by Melinda, trust me)<br />I found it freshly written though some of the passages do tend to drag on for a while. It´s still very enjoyable and if you enjoy the Brit-chick trend, you'll get a kick out of this book.<br />And Tiffany Trott even makes a cameo!	2003-09-24
