US	40001053	R36Y5013KBFP2T	1587610094	692449676	First You Shave Your Head	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Quick Reading	While I did enjoy this book for it's easily digested format, I also found it was somewhat shallow in parts. This book \\"captures\\" Larkin's travels with her teacher (Samu Sunim) during the summer of 1999 all throughout South Korea. By the end of the book, Geri makes it no secret that she rather dislikes her teacher. There was one point in the book where Samu appears to lose his temper with her, for wearing her robes incorrectly in a monastery. Larkin resented this tremendously, and never really aptly admits the faults of her subsequent rage that followed thereafter.<br /><br />For me, this is why I think Zen Buddhism in the West is having some real problems taking root. There is an almost anti-monastic and anti-authoritarian sickness enveloping our practice here. Larkin certainly realized that Zen as it is practiced in Korea is much more demanding than it is in Western countries, and her teacher is actually pretty cranky throughout the trip; this was summed up in Samu Sunim's informing Larkin and another female \\"monk\\" named Haju that he is \\"Correcting 3 years of mistakes in 30 days.\\" This is accentuated by the fact that, at the time, Larkin claims she and Haju are the 1st women to be accepted as monks in these institutions. I don't think this is accurate, however. Zen master Seung Sahn had been taking men and women with him back to Korea all the time all throughout the early 80's.<br /><br />Larkin mentions Martha Stewart 3 or 4 times in this work, commenting on one place they stay as having a Martha Stewart cleanliness to it. This book, flawed as it is, is at the very least written honestly. This can be observed in some of Larkin's somewhat immature observations and reactions throughout the work. If you're a Martha Stewart fan with a taste for spa treatments or shopping at the mall, then this book might actually speak real loud to you. For me, it was a good book but not a particularly insightful one. So on a Dharmic level, it's not much. As a travelogue, it wasn't bad. 3.5 to 4 stars.n't bad. 3.5 to 4 stars.	2005-04-10
US	40001053	R9I3A8E323W9L	0804817820	641960374	The Whole World Is a Single Flower: 365 Kong-Ans for Everyday Life (Tuttle Library of Enlightenment)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Not Entertainment	Zen master Seung Sahn drew me in from the moment I first read his Compass of Zen (probably still one of the best works out there on the subject to date). I probably should have put the book down like he said before reading it, but I couldn't resist frankly. See the thing is, books like that are a blessing and a curse. Here you stand, on the verge of an entirely new horizon, yet your still attempting to approach this life academically. Okay, I was approaching life in that way; maybe you can or cannot relate. I developed a philosophical and theoretical illness, and I was constantly using my philosophy to try and \\"mend\\" the illness. In short, I was going absolutely insane. There I was, surrounded by piles of Zen books with no practice, no ZAZEN. Man I must have looked a mess sitting there, real disheveled.<br /><br />Anyway, me and Zen went on a hiatus for a year or so as a result (I was mad at her). Then one holiday, my sister gives me some dharma talks on tape of various teachers , and that old spark was started again. But I knew (really, I did!) that things would have to change. I vowed to myself that I COULD NOT approach practice in the way I had previously, otherwise I may as well not bother at all. So I ordered a zafu and zabuton instead of another book. Let me tell you, that was a very wise investment. If you want a good grasp of Zen Buddhism, I highly recommend you get yourself one of each. So where does \\"The Whole World is a Single Flower\\" fit into all of this? Good question. I had to provide all of that background information (I know, I'm sorry) in order to say the following: This is the best book on Zen I've ever read. It's not about entertaining you or making you feel real cuddly inside. It's certainly not going to spoon feed you and then send you to naptime. It will merely ask us all some really tough questions, which cannot be answered outside of zazen. That's it. That's awesome! Questions we cannot answer, without a completely empty and reflective mind. YES! YES! Shakyamuni Buddha himself gave up all other routes and simply sat in Bodh Gaya with his questions. He didn't understand them really. He just had them, so in a way he did away with all convention and just sat.<br /><br />The previous reviewer said this book has no author. Quite a keen way of putting it, really. This is public stuff inside, and without practice you'll HATE IT. I guarantee you will HATE this book without practice. End of story. You'll be ogling over some \\"spoon feed me\\" book perhaps. Which is fine really. Maybe you'll end up like I did, tired of that means and on the true path of zazen. So order this book when your done with all the others, and after you've finally gotten that zafu!d. YES! YES! Shakyamuni Buddha himself gave up all other routes and simply sat in Bodh Gaya with his questions. He didn't understand them really. He just had them, so in a way he did away with all convention and just sat. <br /> <br />The previous reviewer said this book has no author. Quite a keen way of putting it, really. This is public stuff inside, and without practice you'll HATE IT. I guarantee you will HATE this book without practice. End of story. You'll be ogling over some \\"spoon feed me\\" book perhaps. Which is fine really. Maybe you'll end up like I did, tired of that means and on the true path of zazen. So order this book when your done with all the others, and after you've finally gotten that zafu!	2005-01-16
US	40001053	R1I0N5UG7K6CVG	0938077600	316118212	The Dragon Who Never Sleeps: Verses for Zen Buddhist Practice	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Perfect Practice Companion	Robert Aitken was for many years the head teacher at the Diamond Sangha, a Zen Buddhist community in Honolulu. First coming in contact with Zen in 1944 while a civilian internee in Japan, Roshi continues his practice today in retreat in Puna of Hawaii. The book we have here is a wonderful accent to our daily practice of zazen. \\"The Dragon Who Never Sleeps\\" is a compilation of gathas, basically short axioms that help us all stay more focused in our life. With an openness and sincere commitment to help all beings, Aitken Roshi succeeded in this book to bring forth a sense of authenticity and everyday wisdom. Read this work first thing in the morning before sitting in zazen, then perhaps recite it periodically as the day goes by. These sayings help to settle a mind which is adrift instead of clear, while ironically once clarity is realized then the mind being adrift is no longer oppositional; so long as you realize it`s adrift that`s enough.  This book furthers our Great Vow, or the way of the bodhisattva. Through reading it with a sincerity to hear instead of already knowing, this work will open the heart that is naturally present within us all. I will end the review with a wonderful gatha in this book written by Aitken Roshi:<br /><br />\\"Whenever I'm feeling discouraged<br /><br /> I vow with all beings<br /><br /> to remember how Ling-yun saw peach trees<br /><br /> bloom after thirty hard years.\\"<br /><br />Great book!	2005-01-16
US	40001053	RAE52VYPP5LVQ	1573226564	99488062	Buddhism Without Beliefs: A Contemporary Guide to Awakening	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Excellent	Stephen Batchelor has a somewhat \\"avant-garde mind\\" concerning Buddhism and it's rich (and often varied) views of just what this practice is all about; in a sense, this effort is much like a social theory he has offered for us all to examine. Batchelor would like to see Buddhism move further away from the entrapments that so often accompany dogma and step closer towards a Buddhism that is an applied extension of life itself; kind of how volleyball and football are not a philosophy - but rather a sport requiring a lot of action, and of course exercise.<br /><br />With a touch of scholastic Zen, Batchelor describes the benefits of agnosticism and it's liberating qualities which actually enhance our human understanding of things. The depiction of agnosticism in this way reminded me of how Zen master Seung Sahn would often cut through a searching student's mind with a very direct, \\"Only don't know.\\" Or even how Shunryu Suzuki roshi had often referred to the \\"beginner's mind.\\" Beginner's mind, don't know mind, agnostic mind...all 3 of these are Buddha. All three of these require no belief, and instead reiterate a mind engulfed in action. That is Buddhism for sure. Not some theology for a select group of intellectuals to observe and contemplate/complicate; no, Buddhism is Buddhism because it shows one the sobered entryway into their lives. Our imagination can make Buddhism into some perverse THEORY. We don't need theories. To hell with theories, we need medicine. Buddhism as Stephen Batchelor has prescribed it here is sure to clean up any lingering illnesses we may have in that department. Don't miss this one.	2004-12-23
US	40001053	R1N0EZYK03W6QZ	4770021992	8191047	The Essence of Zen: Dharma Talks Given in Europe and America	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Nice Work	Japanese Zen masters located in Japan rarely become familiar to the Western tongue. At the same time, few if any of them make that a plan of action anyhow. The point of teaching Zen is, in a word, the practice of servitude to all beings. Sekkei Harada is easy to relate to for people who have come to love the works of folks like Seung Sahn, Maezumi, and so on. This Zen master believes Zen is the eradication of the self that is narcissistic while searching for one's true self. You know, the themes here aren't really new or exciting, but similarly they aren't inaccurate or boring. For example, Sekkei Harada urges practitioners to cut through oppositional thinking in order to attain a more balanced and clearly defined life. So that's what I mean when I say it's not new or revolutionary. This work is like adding a slightly different perspective to something like a diamond; sure, we saw this diamond before we held it from this particular perspective, but now the understanding of it has become just that much more clear. We will never have inspected it in it's sum whole, for it's the inspections themselves that make up that entirety anyway. So while I'll admit maybe I'm becoming Suzuki's forlorn \\"expert\\" on Zen, this book isn't really very unique and probably won't stand out in your mind as one of those truly life changing works. Even still, it will certainly provide us all with a more ripened vision of our procured little diamond.<br /><br />If you are a newcomer to Zen and find this book in your hands, it will be like that diamond dropping right into your hand for the first time. It will offer much more than it did to this Zen scrooge who could use a lesson or two from you...	2004-12-22
US	40001053	R4FR9GXHSHOIN	0861711386	225004940	The Good Heart: A Buddhist Perspective on the Teachings of Jesus	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wonderful	I've come to a point where I've realized that I've never come across a book by the Dalai Lama I didn't like. By no means does this book break away from that strict principle. While I agree with a previous reviewer who stated this kind of work isn't unique anymore, that by no means lessens the significance of Buddhist-Christian dialogues which are now taking place. If we want to be precise in the matter, Thomas Merton basically paved the way years ago with works like \\"Zen and the Birds of Appetite\\" or his lesser known \\"The Asian Journals.\\" In any case, I'm here to offer you a review of the book you came to purchase today, not a rundown in inter-religious meetings in literature.<br /><br />This particular work is really a transcript of a seminar H.H. the Dalai Lama had given in London back in 94 to a group of Christians. What he did was use the teachings of Jesus that paralleled with the Buddhist vision of things like world peace and universal compassion; it was truly an exceptional presentation. I doubt there are many other Buddhist teachers who could have handled this sort of discourse with questioners any better. The Dalai uses pieces such as The Sermon on the Mount (along with various other New Testament scriptures) to lay the groundwork for  an erudite explanation on how what the Buddha had taught was not too dissimilar from what Jesus Christ had taught; having said this, I will note that His Holiness did not go so far as to ever state they were the same.<br /><br />You and I probably know that indeed there are some fundamental differences contrasting the Buddha from Jesus. Even still, this does not discount the importance of such an encounter or the benefits many people will experience in reading it - Christians and Buddhists alike will enjoy this work tremendously, and it could make it hard for someone on the sidelines trying to choose a spiritual path to make a concrete decision...<br /><br />A+++	2004-12-22
US	40001053	R33B9039UCNTLC	1570624623	790477809	You Have to Say Something: Manifesting Zen Insight	Books	5	28	28	N	N	One of those books that deserves going over again and again	Whenever a person ponders Zen philosophy and it's practice, there is normally a list of names one runs through their mind concerning those they have looked to for guidance and inspiration over the years; Dainin Katagiri was just that sort of individual to me. Often overlooked, and even more frequently wholly unheard of, he was unquestionably one of the most prolific of Zen masters to have taught in the modern era. Fortunate for all of us, by 1990 (the year of his death) he had already touched countless of lives through his leadership at the Minnesota Zen Meditation Center as well as his travels all across the globe. He truly was, as some have described him over the years, a \\"living Buddha.\\"<br /><br />Publishers Weekly doesn't know what they are talking about concerning this book. It's a gem, hands down. They claim Katagiri Roshi lacked humor in his approach to Zen; I mean, just look at the book's cover. It's not often we see such a happy face in our endeavors these days! Zen is practice. While this book may help folks, it's not actually zazen. Which ironically is what Katagiri was recommending in this exquisite piece of work! To Katagiri, zazen was the backbone to our very life. Roshi explained here how compassion is what gives one life and vitality, like drinking \\"spring water\\" as he had put it. And for the person over there at Publishers Weekly who seemed to suggest this book will not \\"lure newcomers\\", Katagiri Roshi left them some obviously unheeded advice, as well: \\"Beyond your likes and dislikes, you have to obey winter as it is. Then you will learn what winter really is.\\" This book is WINTER!<br /><br />Summer, winter. Which do you like?<br /><br />Seung Sahn Zen master always said, \\"Only go straight.\\" So now that we got that straight, thank you Publishers Weekly, for that stellar review! As for Amazon.com customers - by all means, buy this book. It's well worth the investment.	2004-12-22
US	40001053	R1H77X1MZW278Z	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	29	82	N	N	The Case Against the Authors	Unfit For Command is political propoganda at it's very worst. I admit, I have purchased the book myself. It is number one on the NY Times Bestseller list - TRUE. But number one does NOT indicate everyone who reads it - is SWALLOWING it. I am all for free speech, so I don't feel the books should be pulled from bookshelves. That said, free speech involves the freedom to lie. This book, if nothing else, is FULL of nothing but them. Unfit For Command should be allowed to reach the consumer; but it should be published as FICTION, and not non-fiction.<br /><br />Someone should tell these Swift Boat Veterans For Truth that they can't have their cake and eat it, too. They either falsified facts about war time events on official Navy records & reports from some 35 years ago - or they are lying today. Either way, this indicates a major flaw in their testimony - it indicates dishonesty.<br /><br />SEVERAL men present in this book actually WROTE Kerry's recommendations for medals. Now one must ask, if they feel he did not deserve these medals, then why would they recommend him for them? If Kerry received medals he shouldn't have at the hands of these men, then they are by indictment part of a deceptive scheme themselves. They are, in Kerry terminology, \\"flip-flopping.\\" Either they lied then, or they are lying now. Either way, it speaks volumes on their validity entirely.<br /><br />John O'Neil...remember that guy? He was Nixon's pitbull unleashed to combat Kerry's testimony in the 70's. That's funny, because Nixon STOLE his election. So he worked for a crook then, just as he works for a crook today. Also, the Swiftvet's book claims a William Schachte was on Kerry's boat that night. That story is false. Both Bill Zaladonis and Runyon WERE on the boat that night, and BOTH confirm there were only 3 people present. These Swift Boat Vets aren't just calling John Kerry a liar, but they are calling all of the men who witnessed the ambush and came forward to defend Kerry liars. They are saying OFFICIAL NAVY RECORDS are LIES. That's quite an accusation.<br /><br />We should make it a U.S. law to prohibit veterans from doing this sort of slander. If they are calling the U.S. Navy's Official Record false, they are calling into question EVERY veteran's medals. Literally. Even their own.<br /><br />This book is a work of FICTION, not non-fiction. Let's set the record straight.They are saying OFFICIAL NAVY RECORDS are LIES. That's quite an accusation.  <br /> <br />We should make it a U.S. law to prohibit veterans from doing this sort of slander. If they are calling the U.S. Navy's Official Record false, they are calling into question EVERY veteran's medals. Literally. Even their own.  <br /> <br />This book is a work of FICTION, not non-fiction. Let's set the record straight. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-03
US	40001053	R1RBZWZ40E2TZO	0671721135	733518408	Through The Ice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Read	Piers Anthony is perhaps one of the most imaginative, spellbinding, and ultimately ingenius writers in the genre today. This book was indeed unique in that it was \\"co-written\\" with a dead Robert Kornwise. In essence, Anthony edited and elaborated upon Kornwise's original draft, which he had wrote in highschool before being killed by a drunk driver. Piers says he believes this is the book Robert would have written, if he were to have matured in his writing a bit and edited it himself.<br /><br />We start with a teenager by the name of Seth familiar with training in the martial arts. Seth winds up getting jumped after a party, and wanders out onto a frozen lake...where he falls Through the Ice. From here the story really gets going, taking you on a journey of wonderful landscapes and lovable characters. Fantasy at it's best. I'm tempted to say this is one of Piers better works-strange-because it's not really all his own material. But that aside, all Piers Anthony fans will be sure to want to pick this one up for their next read. Then again, this book is for fans of the fantasy genre period. A solid piece.	2004-08-20
US	40001053	R2KTJPKCXLDKPE	0345338588	474733359	On a Pale Horse (Incarnations of Immortality, Bk. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Piers is Terrific	What would you do in the office of death? Our main character Zane is confronted with this conandrum early on, ripped from the world of the living and tossed into the possition of the Immortal Incarnation of Death itself. The Grim Reaper, if you will - come to take your soul.<br /><br />Piers Anthony = magical worlds, unforgettable characters, and one heck of a story. You won't find this stuff from any other authors in the fantasy genre. Piers stands alone here. The whole Incarnations of Immortality Series is amazing, and this book surely gets this series off to a VERY good start.<br /><br />So how did you answer? Would you serve God? Satan? No one? Become unorthodox? Would you refuse to take souls? All of this and more you'll find explored in this deep, yet highly enjoyable fantasy read.	2004-08-20
US	40001053	R3Q951XSN0A5J9	1885173997	913842126	Realty Check	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Read	It could be accurately stated that this work leaves some things to be desired. More character development to start. But where the book offers us readers a few minuses, it is truly a hypnotic tale notwithstanding. Imagine yourself finding a house which is fully furnished - everything you would normally want is inside. What is more: it's FREE for a full month. Then factor in the house windows that look out onto foreign landscapes --- a front door that leads to every city or place imaginable in the world. From this conceptual framework alone, you can see how the author could have become so excited by the plot that he forgot about the characters.<br /><br />I enjoyed this one most because I didn't have any idea as to what I might find on the next page. I love that thrill. Heck, it's why we read all these books, isn't it? The adventure and thrill of the unknown. Piers is the kind of author you can trust for a fun ride through an imaginative world. A+ for storyline / B- for character development. Enjoy!	2004-08-20
US	40001053	R17V98833ESC6K	0786880708	795743807	Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Inspirational	Mindfulness should be an exercise all beings participate in practicing, not simply exclusive to our Buddhist traditions; a point Kabat-Zinn makes in this wonderful book. What it truly encompasses is a kind of awakening (yes, clich&eacute;) where we begin living in accord with not just all people but, also with ourselves.<br />Jon Kabat-Zinn is the director of the Stress Reduction Clinic at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, a clinic which likely has helped innumerable beings. Mindful meditation is a letting go practice, a practice of non contriving and ultimately - endurance. It is an acknowledgement of who we already are, beneath the layers of attachments and aversion; that is of course that we are loving and generous people.<br />This book offers a plethora of meditative exercises and mindfulness applications to employ in our daily routines. Zinn suggests utilizing sitting, walking, and even \\"on your feet\\" meditation. Metaphors of mindful actions are here using topics like parenting or even washing the dishes. This work will hopefully motivate all who read it. Great book.	2004-03-22
US	40001053	R36EPMTWV8OAMO	157062903X	899080149	Lovingkindness: The Revolutionary Art of Happiness (Shambhala Classics)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	A Call To Action	Loving-kindness meditation is unique to our Buddhist traditions, and in this book Sharon Salzburg presents us with an informative body of work on it's practice. She uses her understanding and know-how drawn from many years of practice to point each and every one of us to the realization that the light of love is already within us all.  Loving-kindness must be aimed at two sources: ourselves and all beings.<br />Sharon talks a bit about what holds us back from this realization, ranging from our attachments to antagonism. One of the first rules to breaking down these impediments is the act of giving, not just giving in a material sense but ultimately giving the breadth of our very being; compassionate action, not just loving-kindness thoughts. This book should speak to all of us, and for this reason alone I give it 5 stars.	2004-03-22
US	40001053	RUBIVHAVXWTT	1573222283	690546059	Faith: Trusting Your Own Deepest Experience	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The Best Book On Faith Out There	Faith in a theological context for many people is an act of belief in what one cannot prove. It has been used as a line drawn between those who \\"believe\\" and those who do not in a Christian context. But Salzberg's intent in this wonderful text drives at providing us all with a fresh perspective of what faith really is; a definition unassociated with doctrine and theology.  A kind of faith in oneself, emphasizing a love and respect for ourselves. This kind of faith unearths our connection to all people, not a faith used as a tool of making you or I a separate entity. Faith doesn't necessarily require belief, it is a trust. A trust in ourselves through a waking up to who we really are. It does not necessarily denote a God, or even no God.<br />In the book Salzberg discusses her painful youth; she lost her mother very early on and her father was mentally ill. In 1968, Sharon came across Buddhism in a course on Asian philosophy, where she learned of the teachings of the Lord Buddha. She remembers feeling instantly drawn to his messages, in particular the Four Noble Truths. A few years later she was in India at Bodh Gaya doing her first meditative retreat. From that point on for a number of years, Sharon studied with teachers in Burma, Tibet, and India; experiences that ultimately affected her view on just what faith truly means in her life.<br />This book is the absolute best out there on the subject of faith, and I say that for people of any religion. Salzberg relies on both her years of experience and impressive array of teachers that always challenged her in bringing us this magnificent book.<br />Salzberg: &quot;Faith is the ability to offer our heart to the truth of what is happening, to see our experience as the embodiment of life's mystery, the present expression of possibility, the conduit connecting us to a bigger reality.&quot;	2004-03-22
US	40001053	RQLDUJ4LQBWI3	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	3	3	7	N	N	hmmmm	Glancing over some previous reviews, I am truly happy to hear there were some people who experienced some kind of relief from the book; I cannot say the same for myself. To be frank, Tolle's so called \\"enlightenment\\" experience is where my I first grew skeptical of his work. I simply was not buying it, which for me drew into question the entire book's authenticity. Tolle needed a better editor, for I would have placed his \\"enlightenment story\\" at the end; I mean no spiritual writer needs to prove they \\"got it\\" with a literal account! Their words should do all the explaining and proving. I don't even know what Eckhart meant when he said he experienced enlightenment. Was it this affirmation of the \\"now?\\" Now is not special, nothing is special. Don't make special, then you already have enlightenment.<br />High and low, enlightened and not enlightened. All hot air. If you really want to get to the matter of things, PUT IT ALL DOWN and ONLY GO STRAIGHT. Those are the words of the 78th Zen Patriarch Seung Sahn, who's book \\"The Compass of Zen\\" you can find here on Amazon. If you are experiencing a kind of crisis in your life, or \\"looking and searching\\" for some sort of answer, his book will point you on your way. The Power of Now only touches the surface of things, while Seung Sahn will cut to the straight to the bone. Don't believe me? Then don't believe me, order this book instead. Who knows?-you may end up benefiting from it. But at the very least pick up The Compass while your at it, and you tell me who understands. You tell me who can cut to the heart of a matter. In short, who's the Zen master? Take care my friends.	2004-03-17
US	40001053	R3FTVW83B6DG34	1573227196	210637134	Inner Revolution	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Ambitious, but...boring	This book was written by literally America's first Tibetan Buddhist monk, Robert Thurman. It has the \\"scholar's edge\\", which makes it probably more accessible to those involved in academic Tibetan studies; that's certainly not to say everyone cannot learn from this, but the writing style and the massive amount of material covered borderlines \\"saturating\\" the readers mind. This was a sincere book, full of high hopes I'm sure, and for that we can cut him some slack I suppose. After all, it's not as though this is an entirely bad book. However, as a previous reviewer pointed out, Thurman does seem a bit rushed here. As with many of Roberts' other books, the book covers a lot of both history and dogma. Tibetan Buddhism is extremely esoteric and all too often inaccessible to many practitioners. One criticism I make is that history (Tibetan or otherwise) doesn't really have anything to do with the Buddha's Dharma; what was taught is most important! And yes, Thurman does touch on \\"non-historical\\" points, such as learning from the practice of the Bodhisattva ideal, et cetera. But I must say, this book was actually, to be frank, rather boring. I concur with our reviewer from Pennsylvania below: Maybe buy a different book. Truthfully there are certainly much better works out there by much more \\"with both feet on the ground\\" style teachers. Now Thurman's book, Infinite Life, is by FAR a much more insightful book and I recommend it 10 fold to this one. In Infinite Life, he's matured a bit more if you ask me; perhaps he realized that many of his books are constantly reviewed as being boring. Who knows? This work was ambitious, but gets only 3 stars from me. Take care!	2004-03-14
US	40001053	RMVS8KV89VOPK	1570624283	655712853	A Heart as Wide as the World: Stories on the Path of Lovingkindness	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Compassion is in Doing	Sharon Salzberg's most stressed point within this work is the practice of meditation so that we can come to see life more clearly; acknowledging the interconnection of all sentient beings and practicing loving kindness towards one another. She reminds us all that compassion is not mere empathy, empathy is simply cognizant. True compassion requires action to \\"materialize.\\"<br />The book is basically a compilation of various teachings she's received from various Buddhist traditions throughout the years, guides such as H. H. the Dalai Lama to name just one among many mentioned herein.<br />Sharon co-found the Insight Meditation Society, an organization devoted toward spreading the Buddha's teachings throughout the world. While at the center she has met countless teachers and taken in 84,000 teachings throughout the years, and lucky you and I  can access these fine teachings here in this relatively short, yet very concise, read. Enjoy!	2004-03-14
US	40001053	R1K3AJSBP1D5PA	0861711238	867449974	Sleeping, Dreaming, and Dying: An Exploration of Consciousness	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Well I Think 5 Stars is Necessary	I'm not sure why this book received all the bad reviews that it did (though I confess I have never given a Dalai Lama book less than a 5 start review-I love the guy!). The book is one of a plethora of transcripts of the Mind and Life Conferences held in India, this being the fourth conference in 1992. Sure the discussions are varied, and by no means is everyone simply in agreement with one another here. But the dialogue is engaging and thought provoking, and above all else, illuminating. At the conference we had philosophers, neuroscientists, psychologists, and many more; so of course we are going to get a huge spectrum of views.<br />The cultural ecologist, Jane Halifax (whom you all may know of), had a particularly fascinating section in here on near death experiences. All the Dalai Lama did was show some uncertainty as to the validity of these claims in light of the Buddhist view of a natural death and rebirth. So what if the Dalai Lama didn't agree with her, you don't have to have agreement to have a good book! Differentiating views provide all of us more food to chew on, and then decide which works for us. It's not a matter of who had it right, but rather, \\"Does it sound right to you?\\"<br />Enjoy the book!	2004-03-13
US	40001053	R28REJFH0L32K0	0553801716	771183775	Destructive Emotions: A Scientific Dialogue with the Dalai Lama	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great Minds Meet	The conference the previous reviewer talked about was The Seventh Mind and Life Conference, an event this book covers. The event lasted for 5 days, during which time the Dalai Lama (among other Buddhists) met with scientists and philosophers from the West to discuss what the title suggests, destructive emotions. The issues raised range from science of the brain to mastering emotional dexterity.<br />The narrator of this book, Daniel Goleman, works at Rutgers University as co-chair of the Consortium for Research on Emotional Intelligence. He has written several books, some of which are bestsellers, such as \\"Emotional Intelligence\\" and \\"Primordial Leadership.\\" Hatred and anger are two of the most talked about subjects in this volume, because they indisputably are issues we all face in our lives. During this conference the Dalai discusses how to transform these emotions with certain Tibetan mind trainings, as did many of the other Buddhist scholars present. To this many of the scientists added their own ideas on the matter with a very eclectic variety.<br />Yet to me the scientists didn't touch on the one crucial area I feel the Dalai Lama talked about, which was:<br />&quot;I think the practice of compassion is like a medication that restores serenity when one is very agitated. The great tranquilizer is compassion.&quot;<br />Enjoy the book!	2004-03-13
US	40001053	RX9TK4NOJYYLP	0553373153	241403529	Long Quiet Highway: Waking Up in America	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not Just About Writing, No This One Is Ultimately About Life	Imagine running a marathon for 1000 days in 7 years. Sound crazy to you? Well, there is a Japanese order of monks who did just that, and immediately following the marathon they fasted for 9 days; that is, they had no food OR water and NO SLEEP. Sound extreme? Perhaps, but it is a practice which is said to completely awaken these monks, heightening their senses such as keenness of their noses and ears.<br />Like these monks, Natalie Goldberg has a marathon of her own to keep her senses sharpened. She writes, and does so very often. Her writing allows her to understand her own life experience in a concrete way. This book is like a chronicle if Goldberg's life, a fascinating tale of peace work and Zen practice. We all have something to learn in another's experience, especially when there is a very human quality to it. Very personal. Because that's our own life, and like Natalie uses her experience to help others we likewise can do the same. Goldberg has written a myriad of books on writing as a spiritual process, and this is possibly her very best one. Enjoy!	2004-03-13
US	40001053	R266H9PS702TAM	0877733759	725531037	Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Writing Never Has Been More Nutritous	Many of you might be familiar with Katagiri Roshi, whom Natalie Goldberg studied under for several years in Minnesota. Katagiri Roshi always encouraged her to take up writing, and somewhat as a result this book came into being. The book discusses how very insightful our own writings can be; they can even unlock previously misunderstood teachings to us in amazing ways. Reading helps us progress in our own writing, a point Natalie touches on as a key to good spiritual writing. Reading helps cultivate new ideas and unexplored territory which we can delve deeper into with our own pen and pad. This book is essentially the art of writing, Zen style. Enjoy it!	2004-03-13
US	40001053	RLFDZT6G5MQ6J	0963078461	173363829	Knee Deep in Grace: The Extraordinary Life and Teaching of Dipa Ma	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good, but the Miraculous Sections May Throw Some Readers Off	Although Dipa Ma Bura died in 1987, those who know something of her might very well acknowledge her still as one of the greatest Theravada meditation teachers who taught in America to date. As the book review and other reviewers have pointed out, people like Joseph Goldstein (author of One Dharma), Sharon Salzburg (A Heart as Wide as the World), and Jack Kornfield (Teachings of the Buddha) all trained under her guidance.  In this presentation of her body of work we are now able to see the startling spirituality present in this womans very being. Students who trained in India and America under her still tribute her with remarkable praise.<br />She had been born and raised in India (Calcutta, to be exact), and at the age of 12 as so many young Indian women do, she was sent of to marry a man 33 years her elder. That initial marriage did not wind up working, and so she left for Burma and lived with another man. Her husband died and left her with a 7 year old young daughter to raise alone, which drove her into depression. Yet one night she had a dream where Buddha Shakyamuni came before her, at which point her entire life changed. With amazing intensity she was able to meditate with utter concentration, teaching the vipassana method to others in Calcutta. She was said to possess special powers of the mind, to which I am admittedly skeptical. Stories of cooking food with no fire, or reading peoples minds - even time travel. To me, these stories are not necessary to take something from her teaching, because miracles can make students become attached to miracle teachings and thus discount anything they find not so special. If that makes sense?<br />All in all, Knee Deep in Grace has a lot of PRACTICAL advice, advice on how to approach any situation as feasible. Her impression left with us is that of an almost saintly woman, who held vipassana meditation in her tiny apartment nearly every day up to her death. Enjoy the book.	2004-03-10
US	40001053	R3K8HGBPVIQXOQ	0385196148	319498784	Sadhana, a Way to God: Christian Exercises in Eastern Form	Books	5	65	69	N	N	Companion for Meditators	This book, contrary to some of the criticism it has received through the years, is a classic resource for meditation and prayer for those of us on a spiritual journey; and if you ask me, it doesn't much matter what religion you happen to practice. The word \\"Sadhana\\" has a myriad of meanings, so it reminds me of Ludwig Wittgenstein's old slogan, \\"Don't give me the meaning, give me the use!\\" And the use, my dear friends, is esoteric for each and every one of us. Sadhana could be described as a personal understanding of God, or discipline-even spiritual practice.<br />In this book Anthony offers 47 exercises derived from Zen Buddhist sources, Christian scripture, modern psychology, and even yoga; de Mello's palate was always an eclectic one. He was a true master when it came time for him to speak to an audience, retaining this mysterious ability to completely captivate all those in the room. In some sense, what de Mello prescribes in this work is basically zazen meditation (Zen Buddhist form of meditation); even going so far as facing our corpse in order to live freely as though we were already dead. Wonderful advice. This book is much more than \\"cognized prayer\\"-no-this one talks about devoting your entire being into the act, not simply your words. An earlier reviewer remarked that Anthony would not recommend this book; I don't know of such information, and I certainly don't find him to be the type to make `claims of enlightenment.' I would have smacked him if he said, \\"I wrote this before my enlightenment.\\" Such a naughty word - \\"BEFORE.\\" Nora gives the fundamentalists side of the book, of which this work will never satisfy such folk. I'm sorry, but Anthony de Mello was a mystic, not a poisonous snake dancer. Nora demonstrates the Vatican's take in a nutshell, yet if you look at the early Gnostic texts, it's all right there; perfectly in line with what de Mello speaks about in here. We must knock inward, to realize there NEVER WAS AN INSIDE OR OUTSIDE. Anyway, I got off subject a bit. Great book!off subject a bit. Great book!	2004-03-10
US	40001053	R2TRSN54F0R8V8	0060634006	798968380	The Imitation of Christ: How Jesus Wants Us to Live - A Contemporary Version	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Classic	The original work was composed somewhere in the 15th century, a devotional classic with origins in the Brethren of Common Life (a religious group in the Netherlands). Griffin brings this book alive once again, retaining Kempis's emotional scope originally found in the original (prior to the plethora of sometimes incorrect translations). There is a tinge of comedy herein, something which should appeal to most modern readers.<br />The Imitation of Christ has 4 sections: the spiritual life, the interior life, internal consolation, and the sacrament of the altar. One who follows the footprints left in sand by Christ must be ready to endure, and even suffer, trials and tribulations without recoil. Kempis says, \\"those who can't withstand temptations become the shipwrecked, cast adrift forever.&quot;<br />This book calls attention to a process of spiritual progression attained through diligent practice. A person must want to change. \\"Change your ways, give yourself a fresh coat of paint, convert yourself. Do all this, and you'll find the Cross before it finds you.\\" This is much more than a symbolic \\"baptism\\" where one, in a moment of so called \\"utter clarity\\", accepts Jesus as his/her savior. No, this entails a commitment, a lifelong determination which cannot waver. This book can be life changing, if approached with an open mind. Enjoy!	2004-03-10
US	40001053	R3KVVHM8OW8OQG	0553378554	564427506	Lessons of the Lotus: Practical Spiritual Teachings of a Travelling Buddhist Monk	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Work	The writer is a monk from Sri Lanka, Bhante Y. Wimala, also the originator of the \\"Center for Conscious Evolution\\" in Cambridge. Bhante looks at the entire world as his teacher, and is totally content being in his present state of constant learning. That's the driving gusto of this work, that everything is cinstantly teaching us, incessantly. We can learn not only from holy texts or nature herself, but every single moment; mind you \\"moment\\" is eternal and infinite.<br />Here we are asked to re-contact the child within and reclaim our original inquisitiveness. To acknowledge and appreciate the beauty of all things, not only the sunshine, but also the days of gray. As the old snippet goes, \\" Rain makes the flowers grow in the field, and also the thorns in the marshes.\\" Bhante also offers fascinating meditative suggestions, and ultimately calls us all to become world participants.<br />From the book, \\"The lotus has taken a long path through the mud and the murky water, seeking the sunrise to open its heart to the world and express its essence.&quot; Enjoy!	2004-03-10
US	40001053	R2K4FGEDPK6VVB	0861713117	391200927	In This Very Life : The Liberation Teachings of the Buddha	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Book that Relates to the Modern Reader	In Rangoon, Burma there is a lovely monastery where Sayadaw U Pandita resides as the head abbot ( Panditarama Monastery and Meditation Center ). He is both a clear and lovingly compassionate teacher who has the ability of appealing to a wide range of audiences. This book is basically a meditation instruction booklet, derived from talks he'd given in Massachusetts over a three month period of retreat.<br />Sayadaw is an absolute master of mind techniques, giving advice on how to \\"assail\\" sensory pleasure, suffering, desire, laziness, fright, selfishness, a sense of gaining, doubt (the unhealthy variety!), among many others. This book speaks volumes to a modern society participating on a global scale in conflict with it's message of equanimity; in fact, he devotes an entire chapter to just that subject. Commenting that equanimity is simply not picking and choosing, not apathy as many will lead you to believe. Seng Ts'an, the 3rd Zen Patriarch said in his famous poem, \\"The Great Way is not difficult. It just precludes picking and choosing.\\" This message is echoed in here. It's not a matter of indecisiveness, but rather EVEN mindedness. Only when we can look at a situation with no personal slant or bias, can we truly be sure we are clearly perceiving this world. For anyone who believes 100% clear perception is impossible, I say, \\"Find me the tree with no roots.\\"<br />Sayadaw's teachings here are profound and pertinent to our \\"global trade\\" style world, where hungry ghosts abound us with an overabundance of incessant desire and neediness. It's one of those books that's a must have for all Buddhists, regardless of lineages or tradition. For it drives home the Buddha and all Patriarchs message: No preference, no preference. Enjoy!	2004-03-10
US	40001053	RKDBZLQMZQO8C	0804832463	939023537	One Arrow, One Life: Zen, Archery, Enlightenment	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Beautiful Observations	Ken Kushner is a professor at the University of Wisconsin's School of medicine who has been practicing Zen Buddhism since 1978. In 1981 he began learning the art of kyudo, or Japanese archery. The main thrust of this book is showing us the \\"oneness\\" of life in archery and life in zazen. The point is not to promote archery as the ultimate path towards liberation, but rather, to demonstrate how any task we do can become a spiritual practice with the right attitude. Yet he does use many analogies by means of archery to make points about life in general.<br />In kyudo, it is said that it can take up to 30 years to master the art, so indubitably the way of archery requires a lot of practice. It's a lot like Zen, it takes practice which really doesn't end. To enhance his abilities concerning archery, Kushner realized zazen meditation was the driving force behind it all; for in zazen we face the difficulties of our lives, and with dogged determination they diminish. Zazen is all about attaining a one pointed mind, which of course is never without us, enabling ourselves to take on each task as though it is our one and only task. No future, no past, and not even a present. Only \\"this.\\"<br />The title says it all. Everything is included in this life, there is no real dualism or separation. Every arrow which is flung is it, no going back. That's life. You must believe in your shot 100%. This book truly is a must have for all practitioners of Zen for it's contributions to our philosophy and way of life. Enjoy!	2004-03-09
US	40001053	R1YHQ7PQZQUEGZ	0743245199	248127485	Creating True Peace: Ending Violence in Yourself, Your Family, Your Community, and the World	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Socially Engaged Buddhism	To some peace and nonviolence are synonymous with frailty and submissiveness; yet not to our beloved Thich Nhat Hanh. For him, to practice peace, to make peace alive within us, is synonymous with cultivating understanding, love, and compassion - even in the face of misunderstanding and war. He reiterates that practicing peace, especially in times of war, takes above all: courage. Thich Nhat Hanh should know, for he's survived 3 wars, harassment, and more than 30 years in separation from his native homeland of Vietnam.<br />This book stems from his experiences as a Buddhist monk striving towards peace, who happens to have written over 100 books and is a world leader when it comes to speaking out against violence and war. The range of lives he`s touched with his message, from a variety of cultures and backgrounds, is absolutely staggering. Thay's writings always have a no-nonsense and functional characteristic to them. Many of the practices you'll find in this particular work are lessons he has sharpened in his monastic living community in France - Plum Village. He is at the forefront of \\"socially engaged\\" Buddhism, viewing meditation and social activism as being on the same ticket.<br />War and peace are both within us, like that clich&eacute; symbol we are familiar with from the east of the yin and the yang; a prospect he touches on in his world famous poem, \\"Call Me By My True Names.\\" Those of us familiar with Nhat Hanh's works probably notice a core theme which breathes through all of his works: practicing peace not just towards all beings, but likewise with our emotions and inner struggling. In this book he does not shy away from criticizing the Unites States and it's present actions in the world, mentioning the United Nations , \\"each of us depends on the well-being of the entire human population.&quot; This is Thich Nhat Hanh at his very best, and it's my hope every reader will encounter this truly magnificent work.	2004-03-09
US	40001053	R32QZ5AGV1PMPG	0787963763	238917987	Zen for Christians: A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Concise	I'm glad these sorts of work are becoming more and more popular in the literary world, because we have them coming from both the Christian and Buddhist community. Kim Bokyin is a teacher of contemplative prayer (a subject Merton always wrote extensively about) to both Christians and non Christians. This books' more like a beginners guide for people who don't have any idea what Zen Buddhism is actually about. Like a nice lure giving the fish just enough that, with any luck, they will come begging for more.<br />She's a very concise instructor in here, pouring over the fundamentals with a sort of ease and conviction. She explains meditation, koan work, non duality, The Four Noble Truths here; and what's more,  Christians don't need to feel they need to give up Christianity to practice Zen. It may be true on a deeper level that in order to truly devote yourself, this might be so. But you can enhance your current religious traditions and spiritual practice with zazen (Zen meditation) at any time. Even contemplating scripture as though they are koans, is a beneficial practice. Christianity has a lot to benefit from Zen, allowing people to place aside desires for achievements (I dare say even heaven) and simply realize your life as this moment. There is no \\"goal.\\" Only this.<br />This was an excellent book, and for those with interest in further reading on the matter I recommend Ruben Habito's book \\"Living Zen, Loving God.\\" He has studied Zen and Christianity for decades, and provides further illuminating insights for Christians on reconciling Zen with Christianity. Anyway, get this book. It's an invaluable tool on the spiritual path.	2004-03-08
US	40001053	R3SXE8WZACZSVF	0861713230	226284777	Food for the Heart: The Collected Teachings of Ajahn Chah	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Beloved Thai Master	Ajahn Chah took it upon himself as a life's mission to make the Buddha Dharma accessible to absolutely anyone, be that a Harvard professor or an uneducated rice farmer ( a life he was very familiar with). For about 25 years, until his death in 1992, he taught and trained nuns and monks on the way of monastic life while delivering countless wonderful teachings to laypersons around the globe. He taught Theravada meditation and applied the teachings thoroughly into his own life; he truly was practicing what he preached. Over a half million people attended his death in Thailand, an amount which says wonders about what kind of an impact he had on that region during his lifetime.<br />Chah always took great comfort from the Buddha's teachings on facing our suffering, simply to pass right through it with diligent practice. This monumental work successfully gives us all access to the core of Ajahn's teachings which he gave throughout his career in one convenient place which we can go back to again and again. It has 3 sections: Conduct, Virtue, and The World of Senses (which delves into meditation &amp; wisdom).<br />This text gives virtually endless teachings on how to practice meditation, ethical living, and cultivation of wisdom. And to sum the book up, practice Chah believes to be the absolute core of the Buddha's teachings. While your sure to take away a breadth of helpful knowledge on how and what it means to practice, you'll equally enjoy his simplicity and humor, as well. Enjoy the book!	2004-03-07
US	40001053	R36ONR3SA7H7VY	082940726X	39868308	Contact With God: Retreat Conferences (Campion Book)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Words From A Master	Anthony de Mello is loved and respected the world over; he was a Jesuit spiritual director and retreat leader from India who held numerous conferences, retreats, and workshops for those looking to further their spiritual lives. His Christianity was the mystical variety, a position which has placed his writings under the skeptic's scope since his death. But anyone who has read his splendid works knows firsthand the wonderfully kind and open heart he had; there is not doubt in this mind that Anthony was teaching the true spiritual roots of all Christianity.<br />De Mello had an uncanny ability to draw those attending workshops and the like completely in with his masterful charm and charisma. He aimed at helping the participants break down their stress packed minds in order to have a more simplistic and beneficial experience in cultivating a relationship with God. His exercises were always intended to open the virtually unlimited capacity of the human heart.<br />This text focuses on a number of retreats de Mello led throughout his teaching years which he always meticulously edited, yet never published. He was not the type to shy away from controversial subjects, and in this work he made some criticisms about the catholic Church's hierarchy, calling for a fresher and more inspired outlook. In here he gives practical advice on how to practice a life of prayer for fellow Christians, some chapters include \\"How to Pray\\" and the Jesus Prayer, the social implications of sin, and on and on. This book is a no-brainer for those interested in the spiritual life, filled with timeless advice and practice suggestions to further each and every one of our aspirations in coming closer to that Ultimate Mystery: God. Enjoy.	2004-03-07
US	40001053	R13F0PGDVWN6SB	0573221731	871348294	Dreaming Me: An African American Woman's Spiritual Journey	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating	There is something intriguing about a story which chronicles a former Baptist's alteration towards adhering to the teachings of the Buddha Shakyamuni. Jan Willis is an African-American Tibetan scholar and translator, a professor of religion at Wesleyan University and teacher of Buddhism for more than 25 years. She starts the book recording her life prior to finding the Buddha's teachings, a life spent as a devout Southern Baptist in a segregation ridden south. The KKK was active in her area of Alabama, and at a very early age they had burned a cross in her parent's front lawn. Later she would go on to march in Martin Luther King's civil rights movement, adhering to the values she so strongly believed in. In 1965, with 7 other African-Americans, she enrolled in Cornell University where during her junior year she sailed off on a trip to India which greatly impacted her life. For a brief period she returned to the states to continue her studies at Cornell, but eventually she felt drawn back unto the East again. She left this time for Nepal and underwent intense study with the Tibetan master Lama Yeshe. She studied with him for more than 15 years, where she faced a problem most predominant in all our practices: sense of self, ego.<br />This book is a fascinating look at a very small minority in the world of Buddhism, the role African-Americans have played in it's growth and the teaching of the Dharma. In the west, in my lineage of Zen, African-American's are probably the least represented group of all. While we have male and female teachers, and practitioners of several racial and cultural backgrounds, for some reason or another there is a very small pocket of African-Americans present. This is not due to any sort of discrimination but rather, to be frank, oftentimes the African-American individual can at times have a problem with breaking down ego. Something which has it's roots in the horrendous treatment this group underwent at the hands of a predominantly white America. This work is a fascinating look at practicing the Buddha Dharma in modern times with a voice of honesty, clarity, and incisive wisdom on each and every page. Enjoy this treasure.rica. This work is a fascinating look at practicing the Buddha Dharma in modern times with a voice of honesty, clarity, and incisive wisdom on each and every page. Enjoy this treasure.	2004-03-07
US	40001053	R20XIZ9DL2X82N	1570628084	737853585	Being Dharma: The Essence of the Buddha's Teachings	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Great Thai Master Alive In This Work	Ajahn Chah devoted some 25 years to the teaching of Buddhism to Thai monastics up until the time of his death in 1992, as well as various laypersons. He always had an uncanny ability to explain the Dharma in a way that made your belly move with laughter, while at the same time helping to open your mind, too. His ambition was to always present the Dharma in a way that even the most uneducated could derive something from, and he succeeded 10-fold.<br />Paul Breiter has done an excellent job here translating this beloved teachers most profound dharma talks encompassing a wide range of Buddhist topics: ethical conduct, impermanence, right view and right action, among others. Ajahn Chah instructs us all to steer completely clear from recklessness in our lives, be that with our awareness of life itself or in regards to other people. He gives us the practice and plan of what the very title of this book suggests, \\"being dharma.\\" Likewise, as texts like The Tao Te Ching have asserted throughout the ages (in addition to countless keen eyed teachers), Chah speaks of the problems relating to the sense of ownership; how since we don't really own anything, one should not get caught up in sentiments of greed which always follows from a clinging to possessions.<br />This book addresses all of us in the modern era, in a world so caught up in a seeming epidemic of self serving, heedless, and all around oftentimes very foolish lifestyle. It doesn't matter which sect of Buddhism you might practice (if any) to take something beneficial from this current text, for it was written for us all. Enjoy.	2004-03-07
US	40001053	RM9DLX40W4GC	0385509952	541287597	Awakening: Conversations with the Masters	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Allegories Collected by a Modern Christian Mystic	Anthony de Mello is loved and respected the world over; he was a Jesuit spiritual director and retreat leader from India who held numerous conferences, retreats, and workshops for those looking to further their spiritual lives. His Christianity was the mystical variety, a position which has placed his writings under the skeptic's scope since his death. But anyone who has read his splendid works knows firsthand the wonderfully kind and open heart he had; there is not doubt in this mind that Anthony was teaching the true spiritual roots of all Christianity.<br />In this particular work de Mello unabashedly borrows from the very best of the world religions to present us with an eclectic pt&eacute; of spiritual awakening. Calling upon Zen Buddhist, Taoist, Hindu, and early Christian sources, among others- Anthony reveals  mystical revelations which are layered as you progress through the book; taking each and every one of us on a wonderful spiritual journey. He uses a generic master for each allegory, this master could be a Hindu Swami, a Zen master, a Sufi mystic, even a Christian monk - to present us with some of the most intriguing food for thought you may ever encounter. This book is much like a collection of Zen koans, anecdotes that perhaps are not fully absorbed the first time you read over them. These stories can take time to marinate their way into not only your brain, but more importantly, your very ground of being.<br />These teachings will awaken your mind's eye if you let them, allowing you to realize spiritual life is so much more than simply contemplation. It requires above all: ACTION. Enjoy.	2004-03-07
US	40001053	R3HX9UCZ8ZL1U1	0385507828	508268671	Transforming Suffering: Reflections on Finding Peace in Troubled Times by His Holiness the Dalai Lamma, His Holiness Pope John Paul II, Thomas Keating, Joseph Goldstein, Thubten Chodro	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Fascinating	This book takes a look at an interreligious conference that was recently held in 2002 at the Abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky (a place most popularly known as the monastery Thomas Merton belonged to). There was a list of extremely well known religious leaders present there: Pope John Paul II, H.H. the Dalai Lama, Thomas Keating, Joseph Goldstein, Thubten Chodron, Robert Aitken, John Daido Loori, Fr. Columba Stewart, Geshe Lhundab Sopa, among countless others.<br />The core topic on the table here was human suffering, and many members gave fascinating talks on this very hard pressing issue. There were a plethora of questions being asked at this discussion, with a number of eye-opening insights from Christian and Buddhist religious groups across the globe. Issues which affect us all in these modern times: How to deal with violence? How to deal with anger? What can all our religious orders contribute to helping with the reality of human suffering?<br />Truly the dialogues that took place here were fascinating and at once illuminating, giving the reader an eclectic pt&eacute; to enjoy. The Buddhist groups reiterated selflessness as the path to alleviating world suffering, a point many people of all walks agreed with. If you would like a fascinating book giving us the views of a wide range of spiritual tradition and religious affiliations, this is the book to purchase. A true gem.	2004-03-07
US	40001053	RBTWV5FEVDZDF	0062511173	727374927	Nothing Special	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful Book	Zen practice can take a long time to penetrate an individual; Charlotte Joko Beck tells this story to demonstrate just that point, practice takes commitment and humility. Being a teacher at the Zen Center of San Diego and also heir to the late Taizan Maezumi Roshi, Beck has placed herself in the realm of a select few who have a clear-cut voice in concern to Zen and it's practice. This book is like a companion to Everyday Zen, by the same author.<br />In this particular work Beck answers several questions from students with coolness and effortlessness. There are chapters in here on great effort, sacrifice, division and correlation, impermanence, attentiveness, autonomy, and of course \\"nothing special.\\" For if you make something special, you have something not special; meaning you have created the world of all opposites. Don't worry about special or not special, as Zen master Seung Sahn would say, \\"Only go straight.\\"<br />The primary focus present here is encouraging people in their spiritual growing, something we all urgently need in our all too often hectic lives. \\"The whole lot\\" in our lives becomes part of the practice of awakening to things as they are. Charlotte Joko Beck brings the Zen way alive in this brilliant volume. Enjoy it!	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R3LVPC5A9HQJSJ	0231106572	332944730	The Vimalakirti Sutra	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Inspiring Story of a Great Layman	Vimalakirti was a deeply enlightened layman who lived during the time of the Buddha. As previous reviewers have emphasized, this particular sutra is greatly important to all of Mahayana Buddhism. This sutra opens with a pretty amazing scene in which Vimalakirti grows ill, and the Buddha sends his utmost students to convey Buddha's greetings to him. Many arhats and bodhisattvas gathered together in Vimalakirti's home, where they all tried to express the Dharma of \\"not two\\", which as a previous reviewer noted, was to show the point which is not made by dualistic thinking. One bodhisattva said, \\"The sky and ground are not two.\\" Another said , \\"Good and bad are not two.\\" Still another, \\"Coming and going are not two.\\" They all had many explanations of \\"not two\\" ; it was an extremely remarkable exchange.<br />Finally Manjushri said, \\"If you speak or don't speak, it's still not two.\\" Everybody thought, \\"What a wonderful teaching.\\" Then Manjushri turned to Vimalakirti and said, \\"What is your view of the Dharma of not two?\\" And Vimalakirti just sat there, not opening his mouth at all. Thus, Vimalakirti provided the best answer of them all. It's the most complete and deepest answer; for if you open your mouth, it's already NOT not-two; you would already be making two things. Just like Buddha nature, words and speech simply cannot touch it.<br />Burton Watson has translated many important works for us all, including the saying of Zen master Lin Chi in book format. This particular translation is concise and in-line with the majority of other translations I have looked over of this monumental sutra; therefore based on this viewpoint, I feel this is a really good place to get your information for this sutra. You'll get a lot out of it, and I think you'll truly enjoy it. Take care!	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R37V68VUAO4BT7	1570629579	462926908	Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism (Shambhala Classics)	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Good Book From a Controversial Teacher	Don't worry about where or how other minds meditate, then you already understand \\"not too loose, not too tight\\" my friend in Wyckoff, NJ. It simply indicates non clinging and non preference. Nothing special.<br />Chogyam Trungpa had often been referred to as a womanizer and a drunk, yet in this book his mind appears to be completely clear. Like many things in our lives, often we look for things to acquire or possess; in Buddhism, it's some sort of attainment. Always searching and looking, buying and obtaining while all too often not seeing the truth of the Buddha that is us. We hear this teaching, say we understand this teaching, and then our minds still wander away in search of the \\"right teacher and right attainment.\\" Never satisfied, not often that is, with life as it is.<br />There is nothing wrong with aspiration in practice, but if we aspire with a notion of self then we will never aspire and attain anything; it is just not the way of the Buddha. Some have criticized Trungpa over the years for using the Guru/ Truth thing as a mind control technique over his students, and actually it's a somewhat sounds argument. He was known to ask followers to strip naked before him, a humiliating experience for many; all while he said it was to cut through their hiding and closed mindedness.  One woman was stripped against her will. I don't say this to discredit Chogyam Trungpa and his followers, for people like Pema Chodron are very compassionate and clear teachers. I just think that like all of us, sometimes what he said and what he did were two different things. Nothing too out of the ordinary. The Guru (Truth) is a human being, and it's a wakeup call, a dose of reality. All in all this was a good book, and although I have disagreed with Trungpa's often grandiose lifestyle and teachings, I nevertheless give this work a great review. It's full of good and sound advice. Enjoy it!	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R3DDV0EWBG47W7	1888375124	842008260	Teachings on Love	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A Valuable Practice Guide	Once more our beloved Zen master and amazing poet does it again in yet another spiritual masterpiece, guiding us all towards a more meaningful and joyful life. I actually may very well believe that this particular text is the very finest you will ever read on this much debated topic: Love. In Buddhism there is a teaching known as The Four Immeasurable Minds. They are love, compassion, joy, and equanimity. The root and source of love is in all human beings, and it is our responsibility to realize this and cultivate love as the way of our very lives.<br />He starts with beneficial practices here on just how to do that seemingly arduous task; how to listen to others with patience, how to accept and love yourself, and ultimately how in a sense \\"rewrite your karma.\\" Thich covers issues like anger and jealousy, which of course cause ourselves and countless others innumerable amounts of stress and trouble. As with some of his other works where he advises we create, for instance, our own sutra -Thich likewise develops 4 original mantras in a chapter here intended to develop a loving relationship with all that is through a program of awareness, respect for ourselves and others, nurturing, and perhaps most importantly communication.<br />It's with practice suggestions and the like which Thay provides here that make this work a landmark in his teaching career. Just when you think you've reaped all which Thich Nhat Hanh has to offer you, a book like this comes along to refresh your expert mind back to a baby. After all, a baby's mind is open to most anything, it has nothing to do but learn. And so is our practice. Learning, cultivation, hardship. To sum up, practice is our life.<br />Teachings on Love may be that book you are looking for in times of Great Doubt which reminds you of the potential of your practice, thus renewing your Great Belief. This work is a testament to the wonderful teachings this modern master always seems to deliver. I can't actually recommend this one enough. Enjoy it.enough. Enjoy it.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R3GWTC2ZT1CZA7	0824516737	489814078	Praying Body and Soul: Methods and Practices of Anthony De Mello	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Book	The late Fr. Anthony de Mello was the religious guide and administrator of the Pastoral and Formation Center in India; he died in 1987. This book's aim is towards contemplative practices for Christians, and as the previous reviewer noted it is indeed adapted from an earlier work. Certainly it is a guide for meditative practices to contemplate the life and teachings of Jesus Christ.<br />&quot;Contemplation,&quot; writes de Mello, &quot;gives rise to wonder, wonder gives rise to love, and love gives rise to the desire to imitate Jesus in our lives.&quot;<br />This book is filled with wonderful ways to enrich your spiritual practice. It's true, this is not like many of his other works as the previous reviewer points out. Though I must say it certainly does retain some of his witty ability to tell a good story. So some of his better works include \\"Awareness\\" or \\"Taking Flight,\\" while at the same time this text is by all means a great addition to any de Mello library. So while it's by no means his greatest work, in another sense it's spiritually superior to what other authors have strived to accomplish in their very best works. Enjoy.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R27WO3ZI0D69JS	0861713168	690814573	Zen Meditation in Plain English	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Destined to be a Classic	You can always pretty much guarantee that if Wisdom Books publishes the book, it's guaranteed to be concise and helpful to followers of the \\"Way\\" ; and so it is in this book.<br />This book is destined to become in the future a classic guide for beginner's of Zen meditation.  In loving and uncomplicated prose, John Daishin Buksbazen uncovers the actual core of Zen: the straightforward practice of following our breath and in so doing awakening to our life as the Buddha.<br />Zen Meditation in Plain English offers a durable foundation for meditation, illuminating the significance of finding ourselves a good teacher practicing with a community of practitioners, while also giving us instruction on how to practice in the meantime on our own (or in addition to with others). John Daishan Buksbazen was another great student of the late Taizan Maezumi Roshi, one of the most prolific Zen masters of modern times. Don't miss this book! It's a must have for any beginner.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	RRWFZ5QJI051S	0802131840	109628591	Bankei Zen: Translations from the Record of Bankei	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Bankei Was Quite Original	Bankei Yotaku was an interesting character in our Zen heritage, at a very young age he had left home and took to the hillside. He had always been fascinated by Confucian texts, but eventually turned to Zen. He practiced for 14 hard years under various lineages, settling with the lineage of the Rinzai. He would address large audiences attending his sermons with great ease and simplicity. Usually Zen at that time had been an aristocratic practice, yet Bankei would teach absolutely anyone; a trait which has helped his teachings remain a pillar of wisdom. His style recalls the brilliance and straightforwardness of the Great Chinese masters like Joju; in fact Bankei had trained under a Chinese master for several of those 14 years, and that style was more reflected in his teaching style than that of the Rinzai of Japan in many respects.<br />This book explores the sayings of this enigmatic figure within a skilled and delicate approach. Expounding his now famous Unborn Buddha Mind speeches in great simplicity and conciseness. This book can illuminate our understanding in some very powerful ways, taking us back to a time that is still as relevant as yesteryear. Great Book, enjoy! If you are interested in further reading on Bankei, purchase \\"The Unborn: The Life and Teachings of Zen Master Bankei\\" by Norman Waddell. The Unborn is really like realizing that our mother is Kannon bodhisattva.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	RYRHTD36JPGGL	1559391901	94934926	The Path to Bliss: A Practical Guide to Stages of Meditation	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another Great Snow Lion Publication	This book is derived from talks given by the Dalai Lama at the  Tibetan Buddhist temple in Dharamsala, India in 1998. The focal point is on the Lamrim (or meditative stages of the path to enlightenment) started in the 11th century by Atisha. His Holiness clarifies the introductory practices, like creating a favorable environment and training the mind, and then gives the primary meditations of the Lamrim on confidence in a spiritual trainer and appreciating human aptitude. He unravels the many layered practices for beginners of all sorts of capacity.<br />As stated by the Dalai Lama here, a gentle heart and compassion for all beings are the genuine foundations for peace and bliss. Working for all beings brings internal riches that are incalculable. In one of the more concise portions, he elucidates the Six Perfections and the Four Ripening Factors. What's communicated here are the psychological insights of Tibetan Buddhism's appreciation of morality and right action. These teachings on training  the mind and the path of selflessness are delicate and appealing. Many of the views expressed in this text are very esoteric and may take some preliminary understanding of Tibetan Buddhism in order to truly grasp. With that said, The Dalai Lama did a wonderful job of trying to explain these rough concepts to precisely that crowd of people (those unfamiliar with it all). So it's a good book for beginners and adepts alike. Enjoy!	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R14W3E7YE2ALQO	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	4	5	17	N	N	Good Movie, Good Book....but....	For starters, we all are aware that Jesus Christ is probably one of the most enigmatic figures in history. He was as perplexing in the day and times he lived in as he is to our society to this day. He has been depicted by various artists as being African, Hispanic, Arabic, Anglo-Saxon, and the like. He's been fictionalized in spiritual (and not so spiritual) books and movies, even making an impression on Broadway. So what makes Mel Gibson's \\"The Passion of the Christ\\" different from such accounts and categories?<br />This book, like it or not, is merely part of a mass marketing tool to boost movie sales and the like. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but also not necessarily a good thing, either. Economically, it all makes sense and there will even be those who took from the movie and books like this some sort of benefit. But there are also those among us whom feel alienated by this process, in a sense a \\"commercializing of Jesus\\" has occurred. One can recall Jesus's rage in the temple, and wonder whether the same might not apply to such a movie as this. Not that it was a poorly made film because, as far as scenery and the like are concerned, the cinematography was impeccable. But it's kind of like using God to collect money in the temple.<br />The imagery in the film was poetically silent and at once brutally daunting to watch and witness; that goes for people of all religions or even no religion. If you have seen this film, you understand that death by crucifixion is undoubtedly an atrocious way to die. Tie in theology with that, the dogma that, \\"Jesus died for man's sins\\" - and you have a smash hit. Discretion and prudence can become somewhat dulled when the subject matter happens to be Jesus; and I mean this in the most delicate way I am capable of putting it. Certainly Christ died a horrific death, and without doubt he taught a message of love; but is focusing on his suffering really a way to live our lives I wonder? What he taught is far more important than his death, for in being \\"saved\\" there is an element of ego and selfishness present there. The desire to \\"never end.\\" That's something that's a truth whether you care to admit it or not. But Jesus taught selfless love and selfless action. He taught to only help your fellow man & woman out. Not to worry about merit or being saved. In fact, even if he had not died for our sins, this should still be our human disposition: to help other people out. Christ said we must carry our own cross, meaning we must walk our own walk. He only left footprints in the sand, it is us who must put forth the effort and carry the teachings out. The teachings that are inherently within each and every one of us.<br />So this book and the movie give me mixed feelings. For while I agree that Jesus was an important figure and friend to mankind, I can't help but think he'd probably look at this as a shameful spectacle in some respects. Because in truth 100% of the proceeds should go to charity when it's about a man who taught his followers to abandon all worldly possessions and desires. I don't mean to say Gibson doesn't deserve money for his career, but I don't think he's in any need of it to be frank. This book and the movie can give non Christians the wrong impression I am afraid. They might see Christianity as a religion of materialism, and not a pathway towards God as a result. We must be very careful in these fragile times. Any unskilled action can lead to dire consequences. I hope this review was helpful for you.n his death, for in being \\"saved\\" there is an element of ego and selfishness present there. The desire to \\"never end.\\" That's something that's a truth whether you care to admit it or not. But Jesus taught selfless love and selfless action. He taught to only help your fellow man & woman out. Not to worry about merit or being saved. In fact, even if he had not died for our sins, this should still be our human disposition: to help other people out. Christ said we must carry our own cross, meaning we must walk our own walk. He only left footprints in the sand, it is us who must put forth the effort and carry the teachings out. The teachings that are inherently within each and every one of us. <br />So this book and the movie give me mixed feelings. For while I agree that Jesus was an important figure and friend to mankind, I can't help but think he'd probably look at this as a shameful spectacle in some respects. Because in truth 100% of the proceeds should go to charity when it's about a man who taught his followers to abandon all worldly possessions and desires. I don't mean to say Gibson doesn't deserve money for his career, but I don't think he's in any need of it to be frank. This book and the movie can give non Christians the wrong impression I am afraid. They might see Christianity as a religion of materialism, and not a pathway towards God as a result. We must be very careful in these fragile times. Any unskilled action can lead to dire consequences. I hope this review was helpful for you.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R4SEM9ALZ671M	1888375167	547305817	Call Me By My True Names: The Collected Poems of Thich Nhat Hanh	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Everything is Here	As many of us may (or may not) be aware, Nhat Hanh is at once a renowned Buddhist monk, a poet, and activist for peace; especially peace sought after during war time. This particular book brings together a collection of 100+ poems he has written and orated over 40 years. Each one gives the reader a glimpse into the very heart of this real life bodhisattva. Call Me By My True Names is perhaps one of his most profound and important, for it penetrates one's dualistic mode of thinking to the point of acknowledging all nature is within my own nature. True understanding stems from realizing there is no other in a traditional sense. What there should only be is, \\"How can I help this world?\\" Call Me By My True Names is awe-inspiring, one of the most powerful texts on interconnection and being I've ever happened to read. And simple, so clear.<br />This book covers practically every aspect of a spiritual life in it's contents, and it is my wish you will buy it. It should be on all beings shelves, for it's prose is delivered deep from the heart of a modern bodhisattva.	2004-03-06
US	40001053	R3PSILRUKF5Q0R	0861711734	120051002	The Meaning of Life	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Complex Text, But Nevertheless Valuable	While I can sympathize with \\"a reader\\" on the fact that this book is in some instances somewhat esoteric, it is nonetheless a helpful text. The Dalai Lama has plenty of books out there that are less dense, I would suggest \\"An Open Heart\\" or \\"How To practice\\" for anyone who has problems absorbing the contents of this particular work. I will also make the point that Tibetan Buddhism is not ALL of Buddhism, and if you have trouble identifying with it I would suggest searching for other traditions you may more easily identify with. I practice Zen, but I can say also that I find a lot of value in the Dalai Lama's words in pretty much everything I`ve to date read by him. He's a magnificent spiritual mentor and friend to us all.<br />The Meaning of Life is a comprehensive, yet likewise somewhat confusing, glimpse into the amazing philosophical thought of Tenzin Gyatso. He deals a lot with the idea of metaphysics here and it's true, if you are not somewhat familiar with some basic Buddhist concepts, you may have a difficult time taking much in the realm of that which is beneficial from this book. He uses the Wheel of Life as a centerpiece for all that stems off in form of philosophy in this work, explaining how humans are often trapped by their own selfish thinking and desires. That part is hopefully not very hard for any of us to understand. It's sort of like 3 + 3 = 6. Simple math. I myself having practiced Korean Zen for quite some years now must admit, however, that I cannot fully grasp everything that is written here. But it nevertheless is an engaging work that one goes back to reading over and over again gaining new and fresh insights. So if you're a novice, yeah I might agree this is not the best of books as far as an introduction. But it's a great book to have hanging around to spiritually grow. So I recommend this book to everyone, but am aware that it's probably been designed for those more accustomed to this line of thought. Great book, though. I hope you enjoy it.it.	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R1L0FK9IELO8PG	0824814010	299201794	Shobogenzo.:Zen Essays by Dogen	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Decent Translations	I agree with the previous reviewer, these translations are good-yet not as to the point as \\"Moon in a Dewdrop.\\" For those of you unfamiliar with the book we are mentioning, I recommend purchasing it before this one. The reviewer prior to him mentioned Cook's translation of the Genjokoan, a text which some 20 years after Shobogenzo's completion was made the first chapter. Personally, not to play one-upmanship here, I find Taizan Maezumi Roshi's commentaries on Genjokoan as erudite as the original work itself. I recommend grabbing \\"The Teachings of the Great Mountain: Zen Talks by Taizan Maezumi.\\" Very clear text it is. All in all this is a pretty good translation, while there are better out there frankly. The one I mentioned starting the review is the best I've found in the form of \\"best of\\" in terms of Dogen's work and even poetry. So buy this book to expand your horizons, and yes even learn some things. But be sure to continue your quest in understanding Dogen's crucial Zen more and more, because this isn't the best book out there on the subject. Having said all this, I think you'll really enjoy it. Take care!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R1T72IEVSTHC4N	0553257765	493303459	The Dictionary of Classical Mythology: The Indispensable Guide for All Students and Readers of Ancient and Modern Literature and Art	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great Companion For Anyone Looking Into Greek &amp; Roman Myth	If you love the pioneering work on mythology done by Edith Hamilton, then this book is a necessary companion for you. Although she always covered the figures and places fairly well, obviously it becomes simpler when you have a dictionary beside you as an extra source (and at times the one and only) pointing us all in the right direction. If Greek and Roman mythology have ever stumped you beyond what you thought was repair, I promise that this book has the potential to clear that obscurity up. And look at the used price, you can actually AFFORD it, too! YAY! So if you want to better understand Hamilton, or even Joe Campbell, purchase this buddy. It's well worth the investment! Enjoy!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R39W7B0UPF2Y8U	1559390735	112613105	Healing Anger: The Power of Patience from a Buddhist Perspective	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Excellent	Snow Lion Publications is a landmark when it comes to Buddhist literature, up there with Wisdom Books and Shambhala Publications. The Dalai Lama faces the issues of our times in this book; for we live in times of so much violence and anger in various situations, not just \\"global.\\" We encounter them in our family life, in our work life, et cetera. Everywhere we go, this matter seems to pop right up! As you might expect, the practice out of this the Dalai Lama prescribes is the cultivation of compassion; cultivating patience. Patience, His Holiness points out, permits us to mindfully and calmly accept hardship, thus enabling us to see things as they are unclouded.<br />In here you find an old text from the 11th century which is quite important to Tibet known as the \\"Guide to the Bodhisattva's Way of Life\\" by Shantideva. The Dalai Lama uses this text as his entire groundwork for explaining the practice and place of patience in our lives, if of course, we are aspiring and actualizing our life as a bodhisattva. Also a good book on this subject is \\"Anger: Wisdom For Cooling the Flames.\\" Sure the books are dissimilar in style and format, while simultaneously they drive towards the same end point; realizing our life as a bodhisattva. Get this book right away, it's a must have!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R2UUR2SZ1RYRZZ	0140194401	663483379	The Masks of God, Vol. 4: Creative Mythology	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Ah yes! Good Ol' Joe Campbell!	First let me start by stating the following: Joseph Campbell is and was THE man! Likewise, I agree with the previous reviewer that \\"The Power of Myth\\" is an excellent introduction into the wonderful world of mythology as Campbell serves it to all of us. The original tapes done on PBS are all available here on Amazon as well as the manuscript in book format. It was (and I believe still is) the number one ratings grabber for them.<br />Masks of God has a other \\"faces\\" (such as Masks of God: Oriental Mythology) for those interested in further study, where he covers the traditions of the far East such as India, Japan, and China. \\"Creative Mythology\\" being volume four, and in some respects I have to hand it to him: he saved the best for last! Campbell always seemed to have this \\"encyclopedic mind\\" which could recount any myth from any country in any given era with such ease and poise; it was always a treat to see him speaking on the matter whether in video or in person.<br />As some of the previous reviewers have pointed out, here Campbell delves into the mythology which completely evolved from the early onset of what is dubbed \\"The Dark Ages\\"; bringing us up to date in modern times. The main parts explored here are titled: The Ancient Vine, The Waste Land, The Way and the Life, and New Wine- all extremely interesting looks stemming throughout history on what mythologies were present and it what ways modern society has been effected by it all. This is a magnificent book, the likes of which any Joe Campbell fan should own. Such an engaging author and expert on the subject at hand, come let him draw you in. Enjoy!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	RFE7EVYVM05PD	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	22	24	N	N	As Good As Her Book &quot;Gnostic Gospels&quot;	I got this book after having read her 1979 published work, \\"The Gnostic Gospels\\", which was and still is a best seller and an extraordinary book. You know, the critique of Page's \\"personal interpretations\\" in other reviews kind of astounds me. Unless you plan to write the book as a literal translation, and even then personal interpretation seeps through, it's impossible not to have it happen. That's what books are; an author's words and personal thoughts. She's considered by countless reader's and scholars to be the country's foremost authoritarian on religion, being a Professor of Religion at Princeton. So I think her credentials to interpret are all reliable frankly.<br />Now obviously this book tackles one of the most profound of all the ancient texts found in Egypt in 1945: The Gospel of Thomas. Pagels contours the struggles here between Irenaeus, the prime draftsman of  the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and those who found value and legitimacy in the \\"secret\\" Gospel of Thomas. John's Jesus and Thomas's Jesus appear to be from two completely different worlds, though some of the same storyline exists in both. John's was more an arrow pointing outward, and Thomas's was more of an arrow pointing inward. The numinous style in the Gospel of Thomas respects the image of God that's within one and all.<br />This struggle of dogma is ongoing, between orthodox Christians and Gnostic Christians (the latter appears to be somewhat more open to a very wide range of diversity). Today, as in all the ages, Gnostics are considered by in large to be heretics, a name which for too many denotes the devil. That being said, I can understand why many reviewers are reluctant to give this a listen I suppose. It's difficult for Christians to embrace so called \\"pluralism\\" or the religion of others.<br />Elaine is successful in her critique of the superior role BELIEF persists to play in Christianity, which at first isn`t entirely bad. But maybe in the coming years, more \\"believers\\" will see and treasure the multiplicity within their own institution and start benefiting from The Gospel of Thomas and the other early Christian Gnostic texts. It's a great book, so please enjoy it.vers\\" will see and treasure the multiplicity within their own institution and start benefiting from The Gospel of Thomas and the other early Christian Gnostic texts. It's a great book, so please enjoy it.	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R1RBADAP002WGU	0312326998	764840640	The Trouble with Islam: A Muslim's Call for Reform in Her Faith	Books	5	24	38	N	N	A Sober Voice in Islam	Irshad Manji is the fresh, youthful, and decenting voice of Islam. For those of you whom may not be aware of this, MS magazine named her ?Feminist for the 20th Century.? She is an avid journalist and author who hosts her own television program BIG IDEAS in Toronto (where she resides). She is a gay rights activist who obviously might be overlooked for her views on Islam solely on that basis, because she is openly lesbian; which of course is a huge shame, because what she has to say here is so very needed in our chaotic and war torn times. There is a lot of struggle in Islam today with a clash of voices striving to be heard in it?s community, and here lies a woman unafraid to speak on the real issues at hand. She is a devoted Muslim, but also an outspoken advocate for change. I?d like to review some of the ideas she sets forward in this magnificent work to give you a taste on how engaging of a woman she is.<br />She is a promoter for democracy in the world of Islam, looking for equal rights for women in all Islamic states. She has an encouraging and hopeful voice for us all. She states how there is absolutely no passage in the Koran dealing with the role of government in the lives of a country?s citizenry, which she uses as an argument for why Islamic regimes have no founded basis in Islamic law originally. She believes that Islam and democracy are highly compatible, and is convinced that the state of the religion is in fact not beyond the possibility of reform. She criticizes the fundamentalist Muslims across the globe who feel that the Koran is the end all say so when it comes to the revelation of God, believing that absolutely no license for interpretation is appropriate. Islam actually had until the 11th century a movement that sounds similar to jihad, that advocated independent thinking and analysis. But for strong political reasons, it died out very early on. Unlike violent jihad, it was a movement designed for Islamic introspection and a kind of ?free will.?; completely in line with a democratic form of government.<br />Having grown up in North America, she was overjoyed that she was able to practice her religion under the freedom and protection offered by American law; some might use that as a basis for being biased in terms of critical analysis of North American policy making. Yet that aside, the freedom to think for herself impacted her life profoundly, giving her the opportunity to make a book like this one; a book which undoubtedly would never make the shelf in most Middle Eastern countries. To research and challenge and be challenged on her views of Islam, stating without the freedom to practice like she did in a democratic country she feels she may very well have ended up an atheist. She doesn?t want to sound supremacist in her words, but indeed she does believe that there is one Creator for all people; precisely because she had the freedom, minus the oppression, to cultivate her own well educated and introspective views on the matter. Not handed down to her with an iron fist. She does not feel she must sacrifice her thinking and intellectual aspect of life simply because it is widely accepted in the Islamic world that a practitioner does so. She was kicked out of her Muslim grade school at a young age for asking too many questions. This is where her life apparently took on this missionary outlook. She decided she could either relish her North American self, or become a devout Muslim, two issues she grappled with. She found what in this book reflects the ?middle ground? in it all, looking for evidence in Islam to support her thoughts on the matter. I could go on and on here, but I?m probably limited in space. So I?ll just end the review with the following recommendation: Please purchase this book. It?s at once eye opening and inspiring. Enjoy it.ompletely in line with a democratic form of government. <br />Having grown up in North America, she was overjoyed that she was able to practice her religion under the freedom and protection offered by American law; some might use that as a basis for being biased in terms of critical analysis of North American policy making. Yet that aside, the freedom to think for herself impacted her life profoundly, giving her the opportunity to make a book like this one; a book which undoubtedly would never make the shelf in most Middle Eastern countries. To research and challenge and be challenged on her views of Islam, stating without the freedom to practice like she did in a democratic country she feels she may very well have ended up an atheist. She doesn?t want to sound supremacist in her words, but indeed she does believe that there is one Creator for all people; precisely because she had the freedom, minus the oppression, to cultivate her own well educated and introspective views on the matter. Not handed down to her with an iron fist. She does not feel she must sacrifice her thinking and intellectual aspect of life simply because it is widely accepted in the Islamic world that a practitioner does so. She was kicked out of her Muslim grade school at a young age for asking too many questions. This is where her life apparently took on this missionary outlook. She decided she could either relish her North American self, or become a devout Muslim, two issues she grappled with. She found what in this book reflects the ?middle ground? in it all, looking for evidence in Islam to support her thoughts on the matter. I could go on and on here, but I?m probably limited in space. So I?ll just end the review with the following recommendation: Please purchase this book. It?s at once eye opening and inspiring. Enjoy it.	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R39NR215KYMGGW	0394744330	165398150	The Secret Teachings of Jesus: Four Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	65	73	N	N	About As Good As It Gets	I'd like to start by talking to some previous reviewers; I can understand (somewhat) why a lot of us are reluctant to give this book a listen I suppose. Down in Texas it seems we have a \\"Professor of Religion\\" or something, knowing more than this author about the books of the Bible. But it's all relative my friend from Texas, for it all depends on which denomination of Christianity you practice. These texts have been declared heretical, a denotation which refers to Satan. It's difficult for Christians to embrace the so called \\"pluralism\\" present here or, better yet, to open up to the religions of others. The Gnostic Gospels were more aimed at finding God within, and not by pointing some compass outward to the sky.<br />Now the one criticism I have of this particular book is that the commentary provided is somewhat cryptic and ambiguous; but I cut him some slack for that, it's a tough text to absorb. The translation is fairly concise, with some forgivable and hardly noticeable POSSIBLE mistranslations. All in all, as another reviewer said, it's a great book for those \\"casually interested\\" in the Gnostic Gospels; but I'll also take it a step further: It's for absolutely everyone. Enjoy it.	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R1ERIBW7UQENYI	1570623481	155759268	The Sutra of Hui-neng, Grand Master of Zen: With Hui-neng's Commentary on the Diamond Sutra (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Fishhook Zen	Actually toward the end of his teaching career, Hui Neng had learned to read and write fairly well (which is when he wrote this Sutra). Now on to the translation at hand. Thomas Cleary has a plethora of books on all sorts of Oriental wisdom ranging from samurai literature to important Zen texts; his contributions to all of us here in the West are incalculable and, by in large, he always does a relatively good job at making translations which we can all come up with the money for. So he's doing us all an incredible service, along with Shambhala publications, whom also deserves credit for taking upon the task of providing us with literature that is both accurate and affordable.<br />Being that I own the Price &amp; Wong translation which was referred to in another review (an updated version) also, likewise published by Shambhala along with The Diamond Sutra in one book, I must say that actually that work had more appeal to me. You know I am no sutra scholar, and perhaps I have a bit of partiality here due to Wong's work being my first introduction to this monumental text. So my two cents: both translations are superb, and you probably can't go wrong with either one of them. Sure this sutra is at times somewhat ambiguous (as is the Diamond sutra), but that's just Zen at it's best. This is not a practice of pill popping, or \\"swallowing like fish.\\" We must chew our food, there is no spoon feeding in our way. Refer to this book (or Wong's) often, pour over it as much as you can. Sure the book spends a few days here and there on the shelf collecting dust. At least it does at my house. It might even make you get a little disgusted with all of the confusing speech used. But give it a chance and remain open, then truth cannot help but be present in each word...<br />Enjoy!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	RGHE5W4PD8TBP	086547186X	691104267	Moon In a Dewdrop: Writings of Zen Master Dogen	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Excellent Introduction To Dogen's Integral Thought	Dogen may very well be the most important master in all of Zen history, next to Shakyamuni of course. This particular book is a translation of portions derived from Dogen's masterwork, Shobogenzo. I would suggest purchasing with this \\"Enlightenment Unfolds: The essential teachings of Zen Master Dogen\\" by the same author, it's somewhat like a follow-up. Also beneficial readings come from many of the works out there from the late modern master Taizan Maezumi. This book offers clear translations of  some of the most central aspects of Dogen's fascinating style of Zen (still one of the predominant schools to have survived to date). One of the previous reviewers mentioned this book's wonderful glossary of terms, to which I must agree; It's at once extensive and dense. If you are looking for a really accurate (as well as fairly easy to read) book on Dogen Zenji aside from the entire Shobogenzo itself, don't look any further. Your needs are all met right here. Enjoy!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R23J89ONFWFCU0	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Predictable	The reason I gave this book 2 stars instead of no stars is because Sean Hannity can actually write fairly well. But lets make one thing clear. Sean Hannity is part of the falsified News Network known as Fox news, spouting off propaganda like no other news media organization I have seen in recent history. The fact that he places Liberals in the title with evil, allows us to know that Sean Hannity is a bigot and full of passive aggressive hate which the title suggests to combat. September 11th was a monumental tragedy in United States history. Sadly, people like Sean Hannity see nothing but dollar signs in the whole event it seems. Imagery of so called \\"patriotism\\" which entails devout loyalty to a president who is in retrospect going to make Richard Nixon look like a flower child.<br />Sean Hannity is a social conservative, a position which as our times mature and evolve will do nothing but weaken in a society which purports to uphold equal rights for all. Socially conservative Republicans better wake up and turn their back on this administration and all the puppets like Hannity connected to them, because America will not soon forget. If you ever want another Republican president in office, that is, then you will turn your back. We have a man here writing with praise about a U.S. president who has no health care plan, uses social security funds to pay for cut taxes, and who's developed a 500+ billion dollar deficit while he's been in office. The idea we will still blame Clinton is preposterous, that was almost 4 years ago. It's time to get your act together George.<br />And the most amazing part of this book is the mentioning of combating \\"evil.\\" What in the heck is that? We focus too much on good and evil, while few \\"only go straight.\\" Meaning don't worry about good and evil, only help all people. Labeling someone evil is a way of placing yourself on some elitist platform which does not exist. Spouting off rhetoric about the subject is just a bunch of hot air which does nothing to help this world. Talk is only talk. Action, is something quite different. Hannity's only action seems to be the movement of his mouth and quill. Tasteless and tacky book. BOO!h does nothing to help this world. Talk is only talk. Action, is something quite different. Hannity's only action seems to be the movement of his mouth and quill. Tasteless and tacky book. BOO!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	RJYS2UKVXPX7Z	0767908732	209894229	Letting Go of the Person You Used to Be: Lessons on Change, Loss, and Spiritual Transformation	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Letting Go In So Many Respects Present Here	Lama Surya Das is a profound teacher when it comes to Tibetan Buddhism. He remembers that his  teachers always observed that the most important step in dealing with grief and suffering was to look at the losses pragmatically. Surya Das adds: &quot;Like the Buddha, we want to find the lessons that lie buried in suffering and pain. Questioning is an essential part of the spiritual path: self-inquiry, introspection, philosophy - all involve genuine doubt and skepticism as propellants fueling the spiritual journey. We find meaning in the seeking itself.&quot; In short, we must find the answers for ourselves. No text, as wonderful as it might even be, can do this exploration for us. As opposed to trying to escape from bereavement and hindrance, we can face them with insight and strength.<br />There is an enormous breadth of teachings stories in this book. From something jotted down in a Nursery school by a toddler, to Zen allegories-Surya Das unabashedly draws from the best of so many sources to bring us a book so full of the good teachings. As he's done in his earlier books, Surya Das proposes precise practices in his dialogue of the circumstances we may all find ourselves in. For instance, mention how the loss of a loved one can make us \\"wrap up\\" or become solitary, he counsels using prayer to confirm our aspiration to keep our hearts unlocked and free. Like the old saying, \\"A bird only can stay in your hand without you killing it if your hand is open.\\" We must cherish and love all that is, while being prepared to let go at any moment. This is how we should practice. Letting go. The Hindu text The Bhagavad-Gita states: \\"Death is certain for anyone born, and birth is certain for the dead. Seeing how this cycle is inevitable, you have no cause to grieve.\\" Those are some really sobering words. This book answers a lot of our toughest questions in life with a kind and gentle hand. Enjoy it!	2004-03-04
US	40001053	R1GCTMOKGPK6SI	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Novel	This is an extremely extraordinary book. The story centers around our main character, Pi Patel; he is the son of a zookeeper in India who's actual name in full was Piscine Molitor, named after a swimming pool that a family friend went to regularly. But children at school began calling him Pissing,  so he shortened it to Pi. Pi was pretty uncomfortable in school, as so many kids are. Up his alley more was home life. It's interesting to note how he observes certain behavioral \\"instincts\\" from the animals at the zoo. The same schedule and habits they are accustomed acted out day in and day out. If someone happens to come along and change their routine even a tiny bit, uncertainty for them sets in. They may even begin drawing away from the world.<br />I won't give away the whole story for you. But, Pi's mom and dad are both completely non religious; whereas to Pi, these religious aspects of life are fascinating. Pi considers himself Hindu, yet also finds himself attracted to Christianity and Islam, as well. So by chance he meets up with a Catholic priest and later comes to get baptized. He also has talks with a Muslim Sufi in the market, and soon gets a prayer rug and begins praying as fervently as any devout Muslim would 5 days a week. The religious leaders in Pi's area didn't like this at all. They wanted to force him into choosing one religion over the other. But Pi was not about to give up his interreligious activities. He was simply showing and expressing his love for God in any way he could do so.<br />This book gets very intersting from here, where Pi even has an \\"enlightenment\\" experience down the road. To sum up, \\"Life of Pi\\" is a layered searching out of the Unknown that illuminates all our lives. This should absolutely be on everyone's bookshelf. Enjoy it.	2004-03-03
US	40001053	REXWOY3VQL1V9	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Guide for How to Live This Life	The Dalai Lama is almost certainly the most sought after writer/teacher on Buddhism in the world to date. Every book he writes seems to make it's way to the top of bestseller lists, which isn't much of a surprise; after all, he's a great teacher and a figure whom the world saw victimized at the hands of Communist China's late leader Mao Tse-tung. His efforts for peace are well known and recognized the world over. The wonderful thing about this particular book, The Art of Happiness, is that (as is often the case) he is able to attract readers of all sorts of religious backgrounds. You do not have to be just Buddhist to understand what he has to say here.<br />This undoubtedly is a \\"Handbook for Living\\" as the title suggests to all of us. To some of us whom are more familiar with complex and highly difficult literature titled \\"Self Help,\\" the Dalai Lama's answers might seem a little bit simplistic. One of the central themes recurring in this book is embracing difficulty, a suggestion we all may have heard before. This is somewhat like a text that allows psychology and Buddhism to intermingle with one another without conflict, a trait which should attract plenty in the professional counseling field; I say that because this book handles issues like depression, building strong relationships, having a good family life, working on your anger and envy.<br />Okay, so this book might be impossible to live 100%, but it nevertheless provides us all with very good aspirations to strive for. The only thing required of us here is placing forth the effort and, when that task is completed, we will surely find our life in much better order. Even most of the old and modern philosophers will agree with the Dalai Lama on the following point: Happiness is the point of life. And like the Epicureans believed, this does not always mean seeking out apparent pleasure! The key of course is the Middle Way, which the Buddha Shakyamuni set forth (and lived by) for each and every one of us. Not too tight, and not too loose; that's the basic tenet this book follows, and rightfully so. So whether you are Christian, Moslem, Hindu, Jewish, and yes Buddhist, this book can enrich and strengthen your spiritual lives. So come buy the book, have a conversation with His Holiness the Dalai Lama.o tight, and not too loose; that's the basic tenet this book follows, and rightfully so. So whether you are Christian, Moslem, Hindu, Jewish, and yes Buddhist, this book can enrich and strengthen your spiritual lives. So come buy the book, have a conversation with His Holiness the Dalai Lama.	2004-03-02
US	40001053	R2UPP8MYZVNJG8	0062508342	991854871	The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying: The Spiritual Classic & International Bestseller: 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Humorous, Insightful...Yet Quite Ambiguous	This is a book which is extremely difficult to review due to the vast wealth of knowledge contained within the actual text. Sogyal Rinpoche was raised by some of the most prolific Tibetan teachers of modern times, the most well known may well have been Jamyang Khyentse Chokyi Lodro. He had been an authority on all of the traditions of Tibet and a leader in the so called, \\"non partisan\\" movement. At any rate, this book does a lot of things for us. Rinpoche explores and explains the difficult and esoteric teachings of the famous Holy Text \\"The Tibetan Book of the Dead\\" to us, as well as some most interesting autobiographical looks at his own life. The most important thing to keep in mind when reading this book, is that it's as much about life as it is about death. Sogyal Rinpoche has a great sense of humor, something that is almost a necessity when explaining texts like this to the modern reader; it helps take the edge off of the weighty material at hand. The one and only reason I gave this book four stars is that indeed many of the issues explored are very cryptic; as some reviewers have pointed out. Some of it merely must be taken in with a grain of salt. But all around it is absolutely a worthwhile read that I would not hesitate to recommend to anyone. Enjoy!	2004-03-02
US	40001053	R2MLF535CLFPU6	0553801678	285234504	Radical Acceptance: Embracing Your Life with the Heart of a Buddha	Books	5	74	83	N	N	Life As It Is	As the title of this marvelous book indicates, Tara Brach shows each and every one of us the path towards accepting our life as it is. This doesn't mean, as you may be wondering, never strive in the direction of change. It's just that, well, change is pretty much a given anyhow. Tara's philosophy (not necessarily writing style) reminds me of Thich Nhat Hanh and his works on mindfulness. Like the book Anger by Nhat Hanh, Tara proposes we must embrace our emotions and perceived shortcomings with the love a mother would have for it's child. There is an absolute plethora of Buddhist/Self Help books on the shelves these days that aren't really worth mentioning, but this book stands out. The most important factor is that you don't even need to be practicing Buddhism to benefit from his wisdom. Just as I have learned from such Christian writers as Thomas Merton and Anthony de Mello, Christians (or any religious tradition's followers) can learn much from this. It's the kind of imperfect life experience all of us can relate to in her work that appeals to me. She's down to earth, introspective (as opposed to preachy), and compassionately skilled in all of her words. Tara Brach holds a Ph.D. and is a clinical psychologist in addition to being a lay Buddhist priest and vipassana meditation guide. In Washington, D.C. she founded the \\"Insight Meditation Community.\\" She also participates in running various workshops nationally.  If your making a \\"books to buy\\" list for 2004, put this on there; it's genuinely worth the read. Thanks Tara.	2004-03-02
US	40001053	R2P4CVV55HJLZJ	1573222674	20883586	Infinite Life: Seven Virtues for Living Well	Books	5	52	58	N	N	A Book On Karma	This book (recently released) redeemed my esteem for Thurman. Following his book \\"Essential Tibetan Buddhism\\" I thought perhaps his style of Buddhist thought was not up my alley. But this book is much more natural. Robert perhaps is America's most admired and appealing Buddhist writer/scholar. His first book, Inner Revolution, is an international hit and his lectures at places like Harvard sell out to thousands of participants. Infinite Life shows that all of our actions have countless consequences for ourselves and others, here and now, and after we are gone; in short, we are constantly creating some sort of karma. Here we are introduced to the \\"Seven Virtues\\" to reforming our body and mind wisely in order to diminish the more harmful karma created and nurture the more positive variety. In a skilled and practical style, he gives invigorating instructions on understanding human virtue and emotion. Thurman calls us to take on accountability for our actions and their consequences by remaining mindful that our lives are truly immeasurable. This book is one of the best guidebooks for understanding our place in the world and appreciating ways which we can universally thrive in serving other beings. This was a good book.	2004-03-02
US	40001053	R4CNTHKUV2U1E	0060957549	161531116	Not Always So: Practicing the True Spirit of Zen	Books	5	73	77	N	N	Roshi Will Always Be Present	When you think of Zen Buddhism, chances are the first name that comes to mind for you may be Roshi Shunryu Suzuki. His bestselling book, \\"Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind,\\" has remained a monolith in the area of Zen literature for years, and rightly so. The title of this particular book captures the ongoing paradox of Suzuki's teaching style, stemming from his often used phrase, \\"It may be so, but it is not always so.\\" What this means is that people so oftentimes cling to their own understanding to the point where they cannot flex or learn anymore. We might become experts without even knowing it, even experts on not being an expert. This is possible. Yet everything changes in our world, that includes even truth. In order to help this world as well as ourselves, we must be willing to bend some and let go of our linear thinking.<br />Life is a process of learning. But learning alone is simply not enough. There isn't a good practice or a bad practice, there is only practice. That means you, \\"vow to save all beings suffering everywhere.\\" That's not good or bad. That's your job. Roshi Suzuki helps each and everyone of us step into the world that is eternally present and free from all opposites. Where everything we encounter is, \\"Just like this.\\" Only that. Every action leads to understanding, so please don't separate anything; this is Roshi's most precious gem he has left behind for all of us. Buddhist life is just life. It's going to work, caring for the garden, and taking a walk. I do hope you'll buy this book so you may step into the world of practice as stated by Suzuki here, because it's the key to all of the happiness humanity can ever know. The happiness of no happiness. Hopefully you understand that point. As Korean master Seung Sahn would likewise state, \\"Only go straight.\\" Enjoy this book.	2004-03-02
US	40001053	R1JSLYUQ9298T9	0060663243	991405591	Thomas Merton, contemplative critic	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Really Great Introduction Into The Thought of Thomas Merton	Henri Nouwen is internationally acclaimed for his spiritual writings and the author of numerous bestselling works. He is a priest in the order known as L'Arche ministry. Like those before him who have written books on Merton, Nouwen expresses a profound appreciation and respect for him in this book. Though he points out he had only met Thomas Merton once down at the Abbey of Gethsemani in Kentucky, years after his works and spiritual guidance sank their way deep into his own path. Like so many who \\"never knew\\" Thomas Merton, when news came through that he had died in Bangkok, many were left feeling as though they had just lost a close personal friend. And indeed they had. For Merton was looked at as the \\"father\\" of countless Christians growing up in an era that needed so direly a voice such as his to be heard. A Christian guru you may as well call him. A person who made Christianity so much more than the bland Mass one encountered every Sunday, offering the reader a spiritual awe not often seen in the realm of \\"spiritual writings.\\" That, of course, was due to Merton's dedication to contemplative prayer and monastic living, the two components which gave him an ease and clarity we see come through in all his works.<br />The book starts of with the basic and brief biography of Merton, for new readers who might be unfamiliar with his life and works. Then the book delves deep within the contemplative thoughts and writings of Thomas Merton, of course portrayed in the intuitive eyes of Henri Nouwen. Then we get into the breadth of Merton's actual works. These range from secular journal entries to works previously published in the public domain. If you are a person looking for a really good introduction into the life, thought, and works of Thomas Merton this book is indubitably for you. Heck, it's for those who know as much as they could strive to know of Merton, as well! Can we ever really get enough of him? My sense is that in the centuries to come, Merton will be the Christian writer from the 20th century still being studied and meditated upon by those of the future. That is, if there is much of one. I implore you to buy this book, it's a rich introduction preparing you for some of his most complex texts.istian writer from the 20th century still being studied and meditated upon by those of the future. That is, if there is much of one. I implore you to buy this book, it's a rich introduction preparing you for some of his most complex texts.	2004-03-01
US	40001053	R2HHLMKW4FSCK5	1590300807	838806032	Jizo Bodhisattva: Guardian of Children, Travelers, and Other Voyagers	Books	5	6	9	N	N	What a Terrific Book	Jan Chozen Bays studied under Taizan Maezumi Roshi, one of my favorite Zen masters. She is head dharma teacher at Jizo Mountain Great Vow Zen Monastery in Oregon. Also a doctor, she devotes her \\"free time\\" towards preventing and uncovering early signs of child abuse. Which is ironic, because Jizo Bodhisattva is closely associated with children, believed to be their guardian from birth, throughout their life and after the child dies. Jizo often has a special significance for Buddhists who have either lost a child through miscarriage or at a young age.<br />In this book, Jan Bays offers us a fascinating history of this magnificent (and often overlooked) bodhisattva. She explains the rituals and practices directly associated with him, like ceremonies involving remembering children who have died of illness, et cetera. I have always been amazed how striking it is that this author is a person who cares for children's well being, is a Zen master, and heads Jizo Monastery. That's no mere coincidence. Jan Chozen Bays IS Jizo bodhisattva. This book is more than wonderful, it's...there is no word for it. So buy it, you'll understand. I recommend this especially to those whom have lost a child or whom are expecting one.	2004-03-01
US	40001053	RX0HF6ULTYSNA	069103477X	765303619	The Zen Monastic Experience	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Book on Korean Zen	This is a comprehensive and direct account of the  structure of practice at a contemporary Korean Zen monastery. Robert Buswell is a Buddhist academic teaching at the University of California who also spent five years as a Zen monk in Korea. Here he ties into the book what daily life and religious ritualistic practice is truly like while staying in a Zen monastery. This book should absolutely be read by everyone. Buswell draws on personal experience in this intriguing account of day-to-day Zen monastic practice. His depiction of the life of contemporary Zen monks practicing in Korea gives an original and thought provoking look at Zen from an insiders perspective. He covers truly everything one needs to know about Zen practice in a matter of fact way which can help clear up a Westerners possible misconceptions.<br />If you like this work, you will also like \\"A Glimpse of Nothingness\\" by Janwillem van de Wettering; an account of experiences had in an American Zen community. Also I cannot recommend enough the teachings of Zen master Seung Sahn, ie. The Compass of Zen, Only Don't Know, and Dropping Ashes on the Buddha. This is a great accent to such works.	2004-03-01
US	40001053	R1XMJAXDF1BYVY	0826414672	946291826	Thomas Merton and Thich Nhat Hanh: Engaged Spirituality in an Age of Globalization	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One of The Better Books I've Read In a While	As the previous reviewer pointed out, Robert H. King really delivers in this book! He is a now retired professor of both religion and philosophy, who had always been fascinated by these two prolific and influential men of the 20th century. Most of you probably know who these two men are, but for those of you who do not I'll give a brief outline. Thomas Merton was a Christian Cistercian monk who belonged to the Abbey of Gethsemani down in Kentucky; Thich Nhat Hanh is to this day a prolific teacher of Vietnamese Zen who was a prominent peace activist during the Vietnam War era.<br />Merton and Nhat Hanh both had a relationship that is a shining model for everyone of us today for what it means to \\"come together.\\" With a lot of love in the author's voice, we are allowed to see the deep and unique aspects of both of their spiritual practices. Merton with his contemplative prayer, and Nhat Hanh with his ongoing writings and talks on mindfulness. Both of these guys felt their spiritual relationship and practices had a real relevance to the chaos of the world of that time. And moreover, this book applies in many respects even more fervently than any other era in history. The author coins this outlook of Merton and Nhat Hanh's as being \\"engaged spiritually\\"; in other words, they intended to utilize contemplation while employing action. These two men were actually the pioneers in interreligious talks, paving the way for more discourse in the years that have since followed.<br />Merton once said in praise of Thich Nhat Hanh, \\"Thich Nhat Hanh is more my brother than many who are nearer to me in race and nationality, because he and I see things exactly the same way.\\" This, to me of course, spells out all too clearly what he was referring to as seeing things, \\"exactly the same.\\" It refers to their roadmap for peace between the two religions. Their views on socially engaged religious practices that were not simply contemplative and thoughtful, but filled with action and doing. If you are familiar, or even not familiar, with either of these two men, you'll love this book. It is so worth the read. Enjoy it.f you are familiar, or even not familiar, with either of these two men, you'll love this book. It is so worth the read. Enjoy it.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R10IC7FLAJ5C1F	1893732606	16806449	When the Trees Say Nothing: Writings on Nature	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Become One With the Creative Mystery	Kathleen Deignan, a professor of religious studies at Iona College in New Rochelle, New York, really outdid herself here in compiling and editing some THREE HUNDRED works by Thomas Merton in this text. It's not a particularly long book, surprisingly, with only 190 some odd pages in it. With that being said, not much is left out here, either. It's by all means complete. There are chapters on the four seasons - on the mountains and the forests. Nature herself.<br />Merton even likens a mountain to sainthood, seeing God`s creative beauty and wonder all throughout nature. If you have ever been to the Abbey of Gethsemani, you may understand why that is, too. The monastery is surrounded by absolutely stunning and expanding landscape, the perfect spot for the kind of reflection and introspection Merton apparently did in this work. He urges us to be engaged with nature. That probably means for us modernists to get out there off of our sometimes lazy butts and take a walk; go ride our bike. Whatever it is feel your connection to nature in a very raw sense. It opens up the sunshine that is already within. Merton's helpful finger pointing us the way in this work on how wonderful nature really is, serves as truly a great inspiration to do just that.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R27CCBD38AH9G1	0861711866	161961884	Describing the Indescribable	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Insightful Commentary	This is a really indispensable companion for anyone who is familiar with and has read a translation of The Diamond Sutra. Master Hsing Yun expresses his own wealth of compassion by offering us this amazingly insightful book. The author tells us that in order to uphold the truths within the Diamond Cutter, we must practice generosity. In fact he has an entire chapter in this work covering that subject alone. He argues that the Diamond Sutra teaches us how to purify our intentions as we find perfect clarity of consciousness. By reciting even a few verses of this wonderful sutra, as the Buddha even says all throughout the Diamond Cutter, we lead others by our EXAMPLE to the Buddha's Dharma. The Buddha often says in the Diamond sutra that leading others to the path of the Buddha is actually one of the highest forms of compassion and generosity one can offer. In essence, to be fully understood, the Diamond Sutra must as a requisite be shared with others.<br />When our intentions are pure, we see others as they really are. Otherwise we see some muddled reflection of how our mind is feeling while defiled. It's true, too. Think of how when you are grumpy, others are a bother to you. \\"Go away,\\" you say to yourself under muttered whispers. But our whole lives are dependant on others. If it wasn't for other people's love and kindness, I would have not only died as an infant but would never even have been born. Hsing Yun masterfully weaves the heart of The Diamond Sutra into this very central theme. That of giving to other sentient beings in every capacity we are capable of carrying out with our entire being. Order this book, it's a Wisdom publication - so you know you cannot go wrong.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1F34S5W1FM918	0861713192	572357238	Novice to Master: An Ongoing Lesson in the Extent of My Own Stupidity	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Entertaining and Honest	Rinzai Zen master Soko Morinaga talks to us in very funny and frank language about the strains he's encountered in his own Zen training over the years. We are left without any doubt that he began as bemused and puzzled as you and I are perhaps in our own current practice. And it's ongoing! He is a Zen master, but still experiencing the limits of his own stupidity. It's wonderful news for you and I! We can take a sigh of relief now!<br />There is one particularly hilarious segment where he discusses pissing. He began addressing an audience who received a short break between talks. Out of concern for them Morinaga said, \\"Did you all have time to urinate?\\" The audience seemed a little stunned by this question. Maybe they were surprised that the person saying this was a monk. \\"Pissing is something that no one else can do for you. Only you can piss for yourself.\\" He said this in front of this pretty large audience, and they all broke out in laughter! Yet this is a very critical statement. Dogen Zenji once had said something along very similar lines. He had been out in the field one day and a young monk said, `master, you should not be out here in the hot field doing work, you are master. You should go inside, leave the work for me.\\" Dogen replied with something like, \\" If you did it I would miss the experience, I must work for myself.\\" This is not a word for word account, but you get the picture.<br />I cannot capture all of the wonderful teachings you will find in this book for you in such a short review. You will have to purchase it and see for yourselves. This book makes practice abobe anything else, FUN! Enjoy yourselves! Zen master Soko Morinaga makes my sides hurt all throughout here. But the most precious part of it all, is how insightful it is. Not only does it make you laugh yourself silly, but it helps us all come closer to tackling the great question of life and death. Enjoy this book.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R3DH7F3GOXCM1E	1590300807	838806032	Jizo Bodhisattva: Guardian of Children, Travelers, and Other Voyagers	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Jan Chozen Bays IS Jizo bodhisattva	Jan Chozen Bays studied under Taizan Maezumi Roshi, one of my favorite Zen masters. She is head dharma teacher at Jizo Mountain Great Vow Zen Monastery in Oregon. Also a doctor, she devotes her \\"free time\\" towards preventing and uncovering early signs of child abuse. Which is ironic, because Jizo Bodhisattva is closely associated with children, believed to be their guardian from birth, throughout their life and after the child dies. Jizo often has a special significance for Buddhists who have either lost a child through miscarriage or at a young age.<br />In this book, Jan Bays offers us a fascinating history of this magnificent (and often overlooked) bodhisattva. She explains the rituals and practices directly associated with him, like ceremonies involving remembering children who have died of illness, et cetera. I have always been amazed how striking it is that this author is a person who cares for children's well being, is a Zen master, and heads Jizo Monastery. That's no mere coincidence. Jan Chozen Bays IS Jizo bodhisattva. This book is more than wonderful, it's...there is no word for it. So buy it, you'll understand. I recommend this especially to those whom have lost a child or whom are expecting one.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1N31KN0GE311Z	0861713311	487032099	The Connected Discourses of the Buddha: A Translation of the Samyutta Nikaya	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Worth Every Penny	This book is part of a three piece series published by Wisdom Books - The Long, Middle Length, and Connected Discourses of the Buddha. The Buddha's words here are presented to us in the closest possible way as he would have spoke them during his life and times. This book also shows us that not only did the Buddha say all of these wonderful things, but that he \\"practiced what he preached.\\" The Pali expert Bhikku Bodhi illuminates us the reader with his commentary in the introduction and notes throughout, in order to help us understand better the rich breadth of knowledge found in the Nikayas.<br />If we were to set this book apart in contrast to the long and middle discourses, this one here contains some of the most profound discourses in the Pali Cannon. The Buddha offers us within the confines of this text far-reaching peeks into the disposition of our very being.<br />\\"To hold a copy of \\"The Connected Discourses of the Buddha\\" is like holding a treasure in your hands.\\" - Eastern Horizon.<br />\\"'The Connected Discourses' point the way to enlightenment. This book serves as one of the finest resources available for insight into the human condition. The Buddha addresses issues such as body/mind, daily life realities, suffering and joy, awareness and meditation. This book offers a wealth of benefits to anyone interested in the true heart of the Buddha's teachings.\\" - Christopher Titmuss	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R30IKDW58TZ2QH	0861713362	53855251	Beside Still Waters: Jews, Christians, and the Way of the Buddha	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Demonstrates How Well These 3 Religions Can Interconnect	This book is an inspirational work taking a look at people who classify themselves as Christian or Jewish, but who commit themselves also to the teachings of the Buddha. When three traditions like this meet, it's like, as Jack Miles points out in the foreword, 3 drained travelers gathering at a resting spot discussing their journey. All three traditions are ancient, but spiritual practice is new and exciting for anyone who engages themselves in it's wonderful arms. All three paths take practice and dedication, not one of them we simply understand \\"right off the bat.\\" This book truly is fascinating in it's representation of all three dominant world religions and how one can successfully utilize the very best of the teachings offered by them all. If you enjoyed \\"The Good Heart: A Buddhist Perspective on the teachings of Jesus\\" by H.H. the Dalai Lama, your sure to enjoy this book, likewise. So what are you waiting for? Buy it!	2004-02-29
US	40001053	RJE8D2ZRXHPWY	1570629218	648480948	The Places that Scare You: A Guide to Fearlessness in Difficult Times (Shambhala Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Sound Advice	Pema Chodron teaches us here that indeed, we always have a choice: We can let conditions in our lives make us more fearful, anxious and ever more bitter, or we can allow them to diminish and thus make us kinder. The choice truly is our own, whether we always care to admit this or not. Here she provides us with the tools necessary to deal with the challenges we face in our lives, to open our hearts and above else our minds to the suffering of ourselves and ultimately others; tools which helps us move beyond apprehension which is always preventing us from being honest and loving towards one another.<br />\\"So beautifully written that the reading is a pleasure-speaks to people of all religious persuasions.\\" - The Los Angeles Times.<br />This was a brilliant book, I cannot recommend it enough to any of you.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1R1QH09D6F0L4	0861713222	157700976	Awesome Nightfall: The Life, Times and Poetry of Saigyo	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Japanese Version of Chuang Tzu	Bill LaFleur presents us with a wonderful account of the poetry of an important Japanese poet. It reminds me a little bit of Thomas Mertons draw towards writing poetry while in a monastery. Saigyo lived a very difficult life during some really horrific times in Japanese history. It was a challenge to truly detach himself from the occurrences of the daily struggle of life during his time. He struggled in his poetry with inner dilemmas that we all face. Issues surrounding sex and time spent worrying somewhat about his earlier years spent as a warrior. Saigyo believed in fusing poetry with the path of the Buddha in a life of action, or truly sincere practice. The experiment would encompass a lifetime of this monk, and the outcomes of his story are left for interpretation for us lucky readers. He had to detach himself from relationships with those who aspired to be poets, but who did not participate in actualizing their works in their daily lives. Saigyos style is eerily reminiscent of the Chinese Taoist master Chuang Tzu in his prose and approach, and I suppose Ill end this review with a quick poem by him:<br />The moon, like you,<br />Is far away from me, but its our sole memento:<br />If you look and recall our past through it,<br />We can be one mind.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R3L3NB4W01FLBF	0861711785	127873765	Swallowing the River Ganges : A Practice Guide to the Path of Purification	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Companion for Meditators	This is a  cloudless and exceedingly matter-of-fact atlas for anybody who involves themselves with meditation practice. This book is truly a practice guide, as the title suggests. Although I would without hesitation recommend this book to beginner's, it's honestly more for those of us more familiar with meditative practices.<br />The author, Matthew Flickenstein, takes aim at what most of us commonly call vipassana (insight) meditation. He gives a pretty surprising investigation into both it's benefits, and what sometimes can lead to actual drawbacks. The purpose of insight meditation, he points out, is to simply see things as they really are. Reality as it is. In order for that to happen, we need to not discriminate what we are aware of, we must be truly be aware of all that arises, without grasping or even resisting any of our experiences. But whenever we move our concentration in a specific direction, such as the breath, we are subtly forming a purpose and we are no longer communicating \\"no preference\\" in our awareness of what we are experiencing.<br />This book goes into much more specific detail about the benefits and drawbacks of certain styles of practice, something I could never summarize in the confines of such a review. Matthew Flickenstein presents us with a most intriguing body of work here, a priceless companion on our road of discovery and introspection. So what are you waiting for? Buy it!	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R30M8RGSESJAG8	1590300963	568939599	Wild Awakening: The Heart of Mahamudra and Dzogchen	Books	5	44	55	N	N	Stunning	If there is any book out there that can explain the complex and profound teachings of Tibetan Dzogchen and Mahamudra, you need not look any further; it's right here. These two paths provide all of us with the most profound  and skillful means toward awakening, helping us directly savor the truth of both our minds and surroundings. But make no mistake about it though, for these two are some of the most difficult teachings in all of Buddhism to follow and understand.<br />Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche became a monk at an early age and studied under arguably the two greatest masters of modern times in Tibetan Buddhism. The 16th Karmapa and Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche. He has traveled all over the world to spread the Buddha's wisdom for us. He is also a faculty member of Naropa University (school for Buddhist studies) in Colorado.<br />In this book, Ponlop explains how the Buddha taught us that outside of our own minds, there is no wisdom or enlightenment. This alone, for me, is a subtly reflective statement. From this outlook, anything we gain in the form of teaching (be that reading texts or listening to dharma talks) is actually not something separate from us. That's a very important point. The Mahamudra and Dzogchen pathways are the two most immediate routes for attaining realization of the truth of reality, and Ponlop Rinpoche does an expert job at presenting us with some of the basic fundamentals right here. Enjoy this work.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R31PO8NZ1DJHUI	1570623074	19625589	This Precious Life: Tibetan Buddhist Teachings on the Path to Enlightenment	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brilliant	Khandro Rinpoche is particularly exceptional, exceptional in that she is a female Rinpoche who is both an upbeat, but also very insightful, Tibetan Buddhist teacher. She's very well versed in the English language and understands well our culture. This places her in a unique position to be able to translate Tibetan wisdom with astonishing clarity and legitimacy to all of us readers. She has been traveling Europe and the United States teaching the Tibetan way for over 15 years. It's remarkable.<br />In Tibetan Buddhism, there is a teaching called the Four Reminders. Khandro uses these teachings as the framework for this important work. The 4 reminders include: preciousness of human birth, the truth on impermanence, the reality of suffering, and the inescapability of karma. She uses this book to explain to us just how and why we should and can use our lives to make this world a much more enjoyable place to live. This text also includes contemplative exercises which help us grow to a ripened state in our spiritual lives. A wonderful book.<br />\\"The Four Reminders, explained here, form the bedrock of Buddhist practice. Khandro Rinpoche has had the benefit of combining religious upbringing and training with modern education, which lends a fresh contemporary clarity to her explanation.\\" - His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R6096RTJAVYB6	0861713656	149906536	The New Social Face of Buddhism: A Call to Action	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Socially Engaged Buddhism	This text calls us to contemplate deeply on the nature of Right Action as the Buddha taught it, and thus offers a truly remarkable look at the Buddhist way of life, both early and modern, in company with several of it's most demanding perspectives. Author Ken Jones instructs us how important it is to develop altruistic intentions and carry them out in this modern society, extending our scope of compassionate reaction to the world community at large. Buddhist morality is a morality of intention, after all, and the consequences of what we do in this world can be very far reaching. You have heard the old saying, \\"It only takes a spark to light up a forest.\\" While the phrase has become somewhat of a clich&eacute;, it quite obviously rings home as true when we are willing to reflect on it. Unless you understand the intricacy of Buddhism, it's a real challenge to apply Buddhist teachings to your life meaningfully.<br />Ken Jones covers the precepts and our calling to action as Buddhist's in a socially engaged society quite skillfully, like a carpenter chipping away at a block of wood. The breadth of knowledge and insight offered to us in this work is breathtaking, and I now invite you to come along on this journey of discovery with Ken Jones. It's a very eye opening experience. Enjoy the book.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1JE7H8LUF951B	1590300408	850830152	The Book of Five Rings (Shambhala Library)	Books	5	123	133	N	N	Bonus Material Not Found in Other Translations	This classic text deals with the delicate art of leadership, and was composed originally in 1643 by the famous samurai Miyamoto Musashi. But this book isn't just for those involved in the martial arts, as the previous reviewer suggests, no far from it; it's for anyone who wants to enjoy the neverending wisdom contained within this text. Thomas Cleary's translation of Miyamoto's masterpiece is comprehensible, with an introduction that presents us readers with the spiritual backdrop of the warrior tradition that is vital for the rest that proceeds. This most up-to-date edition also embraces one more important Japanese text - \\"The Book of Family Traditions on the Art of War\\" by Yagyu Munenori; here the book highlights insights of Zen and Taoism as they pertain to the way and life of the warrior. Enjoy the book! Cleary is a terrific translator.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R32T8VBRGG0W3M	086171038X	549885055	Transforming Problems into Happiness	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wow!	What is the first noble truth set forth by the Buddha Shakyamuni? That we all suffer! We face trials and tribulations all throughout this human experience. Lama Zopa Rinpoche shows us how to successfully deal with such adversity, and as the title suggests, transform this into joyful experience.<br />It's essential, Rinpoche highlights, to be prepared for unhappy situations before they ever occur. Having the capacity to use these afflictions as a basis for cultivation of wisdom and happiness is a pretty difficult task. Lama Zopa makes no secret of it. But with previous training we can all straightforwardly apply the teachings of the Buddha to transform these afflictions via our practice. We must in a concrete way realize that our life's problems, beyond any doubt, are the necessary conditions required for a quality life and meaningful practice. The only way we can receive continuous happiness in our lives is from our misgivings and misfortune.<br />Lama Zopa points out that the idea the problem is an affliction is the one and only boundary holding your confines in misery, looking wan tingly into the field of joy and happiness. In that sort of state, there is no way we can transform the affliction into practice. So acknowledging that these problems are a true friend in our Buddhist practice, is the first essential step towards liberation. This book really helped me through some rough points not so long ago. Even though I knew what Lama Zopa was expressing long before reading this work, it was a bright and gentle reminder to employ what I knew to be the medicine into actual practice. When I did, I experienced vast relief. Buy this book, it can do wonders for you in your practice.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1R2IGHERVETE9	081120099X	877643688	New Seeds of Contemplation	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Christian Mysticism At It's Finest	I have a weakness for books pertaining to monastic life, regardless of whether or not that's a Christian or Buddhist source. I have always been drawn to this lifestyle. This book is a revised version of his initial text titled, \\"Seeds of Contemplation,\\" which might be one of his most read out of everything he has written. Some of the best literature on the nature of self is to be found in the opening chapters of this work. In here we find stunning passages on contemplative spirituality unlike any we have ever seen in the wide variety of Christian bodies of work. There are actually 5 versions of \\"Seeds\\", but \\"New Seeds of Contemplation\\" is the only one I have read.<br />I am not Catholic, and I don't claim to understand everything Fr. Merton writes about in these texts. But there is certainly a common denominator here in connection to the contemplative practices of us Zen practitioners and Christian contemplatives like Merton. What I do know of this book is that it attempts to release the sleeping being within us all while waking us up from our spiritually inactive state, fostering an innate and almost numinous experience in all of our spiritual lives. In this work Merton expresses, \\"Every moment and every event of every man's life on earth plants something in his soul. For just as the wind carries thousands of winged seeds, so each moment brings with it germs of spiritual vitality that come to rest imperceptibly in the minds and wills of men. Most of these unnumbered seeds perish and are lost, because men are not prepared to receive them: for such seeds as these cannot spring up anywhere except in the good soil of freedom, spontaneity and love.\\"<br />Wasn't that a wonderful passage? Come take a journey with Father Merton. If you were under the impression he is dead, just read this book and you will see he is as alive as ever! That's the great marvel of writings like these. The authors cannot die, for their work has the unique gift of touching our lives in ways no fictional works could ever even attempt to do. Enjoy!ictional works could ever even attempt to do. Enjoy!	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R30G12FWE14SWU	0861713028	674855265	Meditation for Life	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Provoking	This book offers invaluable insights on an incredible reach of topics, all with the voice of both lucidity and sharpness. Martine Batchelor focuses on and takes aim at the subject of non-attachment, or non grasping. Her husband, Stephen Batchelor, took all of the photographs in this book. And let me tell you: They are strikingly stunning pictures! Deeply reflective and soothing.<br />Martine Batchelor says of non attachment, \\"non-attachment does not mean that you do not care.\\" As one chapter's title \\"On Grasping\\" suggests, it simply means that you don't grasp. But we all have a tendency to do that, don't we? That's actually at the root of all our suffering. Not grasping means learning to relax in life, to let go of the object in our hand and let it fly away if it wishes. If it wants to stay, so be it. But it is free to leave at anytime. I can still value this certain object without, while being ready to put it down at any moment. Non grasping is not indifference! It is actually the only way we can develop true love and compassion for one another.<br />If you don't buy this book, I'm going to come and take you to the bookstore in handcuffs to get it. It's that important and powerful. Wisdom publications has this history of publishing some of the most meaningful books I have ever encountered. These are the best sources for Buddhist texts in the English language. Enjoy!	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R249L653KPYWQ0	086171315X	87753675	On Zen Practice: Body, Breath, and Mind	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Maezumi Was Truly a Great Teacher	Taizan Maezumi Roshi, next to Korean Zen master Seung Sahn, is absolutely my favorite of masters who have lived and taught in modern times. In this book Maezumi Roshi covers pretty much every single aspect of Zen training. Like in his other works, Maezumi Roshi is fascinated by Zen master Dogen and spends a lot of time in his works touching upon his wealth of teachings. This book has a section on the significance of bowing in our Zen traditions, and what it truly means when you are prostrating yourself. Full prostrations is one form of Zen practice that I have seen various westerners in some ways resent. I myself didn't exactly love it when I first visited a Zen center. In this work, Maezumi Roshi uses Master Obaku, founder of one of the 5 schools of Zen in Japan, as an example on the importance and meaning behind bowing.<br />\\"Master Obaku, the teacher of Rinzai, was famous for his frequent admonition to his students: \\"Don't expect anything from the Three treasures.\\" Time after time he was heard to say this. One day, however, Master Obaku was observed in the act of bowing and was challenged about his practice. \\"You always tell your students not to expect anything from the Three Treasures,\\" said his questioner, \\"and yet you have been making deep bows.\\" And in fact, Master Obaku had been bowing so frequently and for so long that a large callous had formed on his forehead at the point where it touched the floor. When asked how he explained this, Master Obaku replied, \\"I don't expect. I just bow.\\"<br />That's some very cutting advice Obaku is giving there. In my own lineage, we have always been instructed to take each bow on as though it is your only bow. Just that. Then you get up, and you bow again. Only hapchang (gassho). Let us just bow. This is the wonderful simplicity of Zen practice, while bowing prostrations are rigorous and physically demanding, we receive that simple instruction: Just bow. It makes things less complicated  for us. It brings forth our Buddha mind, or our \\"only practice mind.\\" So come take a walk with Taizan Maezumi Roshi, won't you? I wish you do, for he was a true bodhisattva that lived among us.ind, or our \\"only practice mind.\\" So come take a walk with Taizan Maezumi Roshi, won't you? I wish you do, for he was a true bodhisattva that lived among us.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	RJYRTJ96GVUVD	0861713338	346900057	Faces of Compassion: Classic Bodhisattva Archetypes and Their Modern Expression	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Important Text	This book is a powerful work which introduces us to some of the most profound bodhisattva's in Buddhist cosmology. In \\"Faces of Compassion\\" Taigen Dan Leighton brings these prime examples to life, taking us through an explorative adventure of these bodhisattvas both ancient and modern. He shows us indeed what it might mean for us to personify some of these qualities the bodhisattva's and Shakyamuni have set forth.<br />Shakyamuni, Leighton points out, is not an archetypal bodhisattva in the way some of the others whom are discussed in this book are. He was a human being who had a profound impact on human history. But in another sense, the Buddha's life has elements within it that truly showed the way for the practicing the way of a bodhisattva.<br />In this book he also covers the controversial figure Daniel Ellsburg. Perhaps you are familiar with him, and perhaps you are not. During the Vietnam era, he released the  Pentagon Papers. He had been an extremely important civilian official in the Defense Department, his proficiency was the dominion and management of our nuclear weaponry. He had access to knowledge the kind of which only a select few in our nation's government ever are privy to. In short, he released documents that showed U.S. administration officials had been lying all throughout the war, having decided ages ago that the Unites States could not be successful over there. Ellsberg released a top secret document he had prepared in 1971 to the New York Times. He is one of the most prominent, and unlikely figures, who stood up and against the horrible atrocities experienced during that war. He is an example Leighton gives us, of a modern bodhisattva. Enjoy this book.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R7ZVN7XW7ZYGK	0861711505	691917389	Imagine All the People: A Conversation with the Dalai Lama on Money, Politics, and Life As It Could Be	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Unique	You know before reading this book, I thought I had pretty much captured most of what the Dalai Lama had to offer by way of the written word. But this book gave me a different glimpse into the man, where we find a dialogue of intimacy and open honesty unlike we have ever seen in his other works (still wonderful other works, at that!).<br />My favorite section in here was called \\"The Seduction of the Military.\\" The Dalai Lama comments, \\"Frankly, as a child, I was attracted to the military. Their uniforms looked so smart and beautiful. But that is exactly how the seduction begins.\\" And how true, yes? Children will be children, even I played with toy guns and bought G.I. Joe's to pass the time with. There are a wide variety of such exciting games, but I now see that perhaps they really are not as harmless as we might perceive them to be. Surely there are fun games for kids to play that aren't based on the killing of other human beings. The Dalai Lama purports that if it wasn't for the fact that so many adults in this world are fascinated and mesmerized themselves by military and war, that we could all see more clearly that allowing our children to play such games is extremely unfortunate. Imagine your child running around the back yard like he is a serial killer! It's somewhat scary when I look at it from this perspective. The Dalai Lama tells of how some former soldiers have through the years told him that at first when they killed someone, it made them feel awkward. But as time on the battlefield progressed, they grew desensitized and more and more accustomed to the act of taking life. That's the condition many of us seem to be in. We see so much of this on either the news or in the form of movies, that we are completely desensitized as to the harm it is actually doing everyone.<br />This is a magnificent book. If you are looking for a presentation on the Dalai Lama the man, this book delivers the good for us here. He covers compassion in a section titled, \\"The Medicine of Altruism.\\" He refers to the plague Tibet underwent at the hands of Mao, and how this medicine was the requisite every Tibetan needed and sometimes still needs to fully heal from those terrible atrocities. Man I could go on and on. But why don't you let the Dalai tell you for himself? Enjoy the book.ne of Altruism.\\" He refers to the plague Tibet underwent at the hands of Mao, and how this medicine was the requisite every Tibetan needed and sometimes still needs to fully heal from those terrible atrocities. Man I could go on and on. But why don't you let the Dalai tell you for himself? Enjoy the book.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	RUX39B4RTC671	0060539283	803755288	The Inner Experience: Notes on Contemplation	Books	5	18	18	N	N	He May Very Well Have Literally, &quot;Saved The Best For Last&quot;	This is Thomas Merton's last work before his untimely death in Thailand. Even though it was started in 1959, he had been working on this examination of the contemplative life still in 1968(the year of his death). It's somewhat like a bridge between his earlier works on mysticism and monasticism and his later works on eastern thought, namely his fascination with Buddhism. Some of the subjects touched on here you will see familiarity with insights he touched on also in \\"New Seeds of Contemplation\\". He talks a lot in this book about the inner self and our relationship to society, as well as taking aim at some of the actual problems of a contemplative life, as well.<br />Whether talking about Taoism or Zen, or the Desert Fathers, Merton interlaces the wisdom of various religious traditions here, thus proving himself to be an advocate of interfaith dialogue. The contemplative life is a life lived in a kind of mystery, in a sense of awe. Not a life of spiritual gaining or possession. This take on spirituality has from time to time been likened to Chogyam Trungpa's  most prominent book, \\"Cutting Through Spiritual Materialism.\\" Merton talks here about something he often did, \\"the sublime life.\\" This he says, is planted in every soul from the moment of baptism. And perhaps the most wonderful aspect of this book is the fact that Merton is able to appeal to people of all walks of life. Be that a Christian, Buddhist, or even a Jewish person. There is always something to be learned and contemplated when reading Tom, and without a doubt he is greatly missed. But, if it cheers us up any, we do have his wonderful literature. In that sense, Thomas Merton hasn't really gone anywhere. He is right within the heart of our true selves. Enjoy this magnificent book.	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R3N83JJCK9EGV7	0861711874	95614316	Zen & the Kingdom of Heaven	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wow! An Important Book for Christians and Buddhists Alike	In this stimulating and humanistic body of work, Tom Chetwynd tells of his own life and those first encounters with Zen Buddhism he approached as a skeptic. This skepticism led him to discover even more deeply his own largely forgotten Christian tradition of contemplative prayer, the kind of which Thomas Merton used to so often write about. In this text, Tom puts in plain words how discovering the scope of Zen meditation can be a sort of Christian awakening.<br />Tom believes that any Christian who has had the guts to sit a Zen sesshin (7 day meditation retreat) that they will certainly remember it as one of their most profound moments on their deathbed. He explains that in Christianity, there truly is nothing like it. He likens it to being like a spiritual pilgrimage the kind of which Muslims take part in when they travel to Mecca, even if only once in your life. The effect of such a Zen retreat, at least to this author, would have similar effects by way of leaving a deep seeded impression on your very being.<br />Most sesshin's are around 7 days long, and after about 3 days most people experience a settling of their mind. Here is where zazen becomes extremely intense. Time is no hindrance, and benefits are far more beneficial. It really is, coming from some experience at such retreats, an experience unlike any other. When you can sit contentedly for almost an entire day without worrying about the time or being bored stiff, that is without a doubt a great accomplishment. But the most difficult part of it all, as Tom points out, is simply showing up at such a retreat. Having the guts to do it. The ego makes this task kind of hard, we anticipate hardship and boredom before ever endeavoring to go do it, and so we procrastinate or end up never going to one at all. What a missed opportunity! Very few people drop out of a retreat once they begin. Attribute that to not wanting to seem weak, or whatever, it's a good thing! Because after a few days, you truly discover some things about yourselves!<br />This book is a candid look at Zen Buddhism from a Christian perspective, reminiscent of  \\"Beside Still Waters: Jews, Christians, and the Way of Buddha\\" also published by Wisdom books. So if you are a Christian looking to understand more deeply the significant draw towards and meaning of Zen, this book will be that eye opening experience you are looking for. For those of us practicing Zen, we actually can take away just as much from this book. It can truly enhance our own practice. What a wonderful book. What are you looking at? Buy it!things about yourselves! <br />This book is a candid look at Zen Buddhism from a Christian perspective, reminiscent of  \\"Beside Still Waters: Jews, Christians, and the Way of Buddha\\" also published by Wisdom books. So if you are a Christian looking to understand more deeply the significant draw towards and meaning of Zen, this book will be that eye opening experience you are looking for. For those of us practicing Zen, we actually can take away just as much from this book. It can truly enhance our own practice. What a wonderful book. What are you looking at? Buy it!	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R3EI9ZKX5ZZG6A	0861713664	287290268	The Great Awakening: A Buddhist Social Theory	Books	5	25	28	N	N	A Wonderful Approach to Socially Complicated Enigmas	David Loy in this magnificent text opens up to us by facing three crucial issues facing us in our modern times, the three poisons the Buddha called hindrances to practice. Ignorance, anger, and greed. These are the source of all suffering not just for individuals, but entire societies and even companies. This book addresses such issues with Loy's brilliant social theory on Buddhism.<br />Loy takes aim at big business in this work, showing his skepticism in saying that corporations and the globalization of world trade are certainly not realities which seem to be motivated by love and compassion (as politicians will have us believe); rather, they are motivated by greed. And it's a regrettable truth, that companies are out for two things: more profit, and more power. Of course, these companies are not the only problem. Because where you have a profiteering business, you find consumers. These consumers, especially those in Western culture, are in many ways like the hungry ghosts of Buddhism. Buddhism, as do most religious traditions, faces the reality of greed head on. It emphasizes the need to control it.<br />Who's accountable for this pressure on growth? Consumerism has taken over with a life completely of it's own. Many people are probably either oblivious to it or don't really want to face this subtle but all too apparent truth. Everyone is to blame, and therefore it must be tackled individually. The only way this can be accomplished is by eradicating our own innate tendency to support it all. The lack of responsibility, in short, embodies what is both happening today and why things are not changing. There are not many individuals standing up to take action. The world is basically in the hands of, in the current era, big business. This is scarecly a new insight for you and I. But the point of all of this, Loy stresses, is that somewhere for a breaking away of such practices to occur, we must have individuals willing to make sacrifices in order to accomplish such a task. That calling is for you and I. This book is so very engaging, won't you buy it?task. That calling is for you and I. This book is so very engaging, won't you buy it?	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R184CSSUF7UJOA	0809140586	190425338	Walking With Thomas Merton: Discovering His Poetry, Essays, and Journals	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well I Found The Book to be Excellent	This book is made up with entries Waldron made in his diary while he was preparing for a Merton retreat at St. Stephen Priory in Massachusetts years back. Robert Waldron considers Thomas Merton to be , more or less, his spiritual mentor. He has always been stunned with Merton's impeccable honesty and openness he was known for writing with. At one point, Waldron refers to the contemplative's entire oeuvre as \\" a word icon,\\" guiding an innumerable amount of people to a deeper rapport with God.<br />A key premise in Merton's writings is paying attention. He depicts it as \\"arduous as weight-lifting, but the more we do it, the easier it gets. It is a matter of will and exercise.\\" Merton on no account felt isolated when he was encircled by all of his books. He was able to find spiritual nourishment in masters like Chuang Tzu or even William Faulkner's &quot;The Bear.&quot; Waldron's final appraisal of Merton is, as you might expect,  his boundless interest with contemplation. Merton once said, \\"Contemplation is essentially a listening in silence.\\"<br />All in all, Waldron's keenness for Merton's worth as a spiritual guide is lucidly communicated to us here. He covers his poetry, life, and essays thoroughly and with an appreciation you can simply witness as you read the book. Waldron truly does and did admire Thomas Merton greatly. And after all, didn't we all?	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R1B7MORBEVRYDR	1570623449	182803536	When Things Fall Apart: Heart Advice for Difficult Times (Shambhala Classics)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Great work	Pema Chodron is a beloved American Buddhist nun who trained under Chogyam Trungpa, the at times controversial Tibetan meditation master. Yet whatever qualms you may have in mind about him, please don't let that taint your perception of Pema. She is truly a shining, clear and loving teacher among us today.<br />In this book Pema draws from the traditional Buddhist wisdom in order to give us thorough and kindhearted advice on what to do when, as the title suggests, \\"things fall apart.\\" There is only one approach that grants lasting benefit, Pema tells us here, and that entails approaching these situations with openness and inquisitiveness. Teaching us to embrace our painful emotions, she shows the way on how to gain both wisdom and compassion not just towards and for ourselves, but for all people.<br />\\"The Tibetan Buddhist equivalent of Harold Kushner's \\"When Bad Things Happen To Good People.\\" - Publishers Weekly<br />\\"This is a book that could serve you for a lifetime.\\" - Natural Health Magazine	2004-02-29
US	40001053	R2A5T9TY2KWFRP	0861713834	631770114	Living Zen, Loving God	Books	5	59	59	N	N	What a wonderful book	Ruben Habito is certainly not a household name for many of us, and yet he is a prominent figure in the Zen tradition. He is a native of the Philippines, and the current Zen master of the Maria Kannon Zen Center in Dallas since 1990. Obviously the first thing which hits one when glancing at the title of this book is Thich Nhat Hanh's similar title \\"Living Buddha, Living Christ.\\" In a sense the goal is quite similar. Habito has always been vigorous in supporting inter-religious discussion between members of various faiths. As a teen, he explains how he was drawn to the Jesuit order and later was sent to Japan on missionary work. He marks this as a major turning point in his life.<br />He was assigned to Kamakura, where he came to understand the language and culture. The priest who looked after him in Japan, Fr. Hand, was ironically studying at a Zen center there under Yamada Koun Roshi. Habito joined the sitting group, and found himself very much at home in Zen practice. He has since retained both of these traditions as his spiritual roots. In 1978, Ruben received Dharma transmission from Yamada Roshi. During the years between meeting Roshi and first coming to Japan, Habito had been there for almost 17 years. He'd experienced a lot of struggling being a member of two seemingly irreconcilable religious traditions. Christianity and Zen Buddhism. But through diligence and hard practice, he has been able to show people the path of a reconciliation between these two faiths. He remarks that it is his Zen practice that allowed him to come to clear and powerful understanding of Christian scripture. Led him to an EXPERIENCING of the gospels, not just mere intellectual understanding. This book is a must have for members of either faith looking for a way to open the table for dialogue, or to accentuate their faith with the best food of another tradition. This book was wonderful, enjoy it.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R3DQX4WFU85PMN	086171346X	562937355	Practicing the Path: A Commentary on the Lamrim Chenmo	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Good Commentary	In this work Yangsi Rinpoche, a tulku with the training of a Tibetan scholar, brings the power of Tsongkhapa's masterwork alive for all of us. The Lamrim Chenmo is a Tibetan Mahayana teaching for a fortunate being to go to enlightenment. It is well expounded by Nagarjuna and Asanga. Originally, it had been composed by Lama Atisha. The lamrim is the essence of Lama Atisha's enlightenment. It's also the essence of Tsongkhapa's realizations, who had written extensive commentary on Atisha's masterwork, \\"Lamp on the Path to Enlightenment.\\" This particular lamrim, according to Yangsi Rinpoche, contains everything one needs to know about Mahayana Buddhism. What's more, as what lies within is attainable by each and every one of us with the correct sincerity and effort employed toward our Buddhist practice. Here is a brief segment from the book:<br />\\"Even when you practice a complete path, that path must not be chaotic and random. If it is complete but chaotic and random you cannot achieve enlightenment, which means you cannot do perfect work for sentient beings. Therefore, you have to practice the whole path towards enlightenment and you must do so in the correct order.\\"<br />At this point, he introduces the lamrim as that path. You know, I must admit this book is at times a little stuck in doctrine, but it's forgivable. All around it's a fascinating text and quite alive in concern to the often perplexing reads you find while approaching Tibetan Buddhism. If you are looking to learn more about the Tibetan way, this is a really good book to start with. I personally don't practice Tibetan Buddhism, but I respect the tradition and like what many of it's teachers have got to say. So get the book, it's beyond doubt worth the read.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R2A8M8NPIKI88X	0861713818	929798074	Great Disciples of the Buddha: Their Lives, Their Works, Their Legacy (The Teachings of the Buddha)	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Priceless	This is a really good resource for anyone interested in expanding their knowledge in addition to the prose of all the ancient Pali texts. As the title of this book suggests, what you are setting out to read here is ultimately an exploration into the careers and character of the Buddha's greatest disciples. He covers tough subjects such as their ambiguous and esoteric past lives and their aspirations towards enlightenment. Sometimes Nyanaponika, when possible, gives us an account as to the nature of the individual's death. For anyone who studies the Pali Cannon, or who wants to further their understanding of Buddhist theological history - this is your book.<br />The lives depicted here demonstrate that indeed upholding spiritual ideals are apparently documented as having paid off. And not necessarily by means of having gained some \\"thing.\\" Here are examples of people who struggled against their human existence as much as we all do. Only through faith in the Buddhist path and their practice, were they able to transverse the mundane realm of existence into the realm of the spiritually noble. What a wonderful book we have here. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R1FECFXN4K8SWC	086171380X	487214124	Hardcore Zen: Punk Rock, Monster Movies and the Truth About Reality	Books	5	5	6	N	N	What a Terrific Book	This book is highly engaging for the reader, giving a perspective on Zen practice from a fresh standpoint. Looking at the books cover, one might think it may not have much to offer them in terms of spiritual practice. Nothing can be further from the truth. This book is a memoir of Brad Warner's life growing up in the punk rock scene, where he encountered the rich wisdom of Zen Buddhism. Currently, Brad is making what one could I suppose dub punk rock music. The fact that Wisdom Publications published this book let's you know from the start it isn't going to be garbage. Below I'd like to give you an excerpt from this book, to give you an idea of the good things to come:<br />\\"In spite of their talk about anarchy and \\"no rules\\" the punks quickly developed a very rigid set of rules of their own. Anarchy was just a symbol, a cool-looking letter \\"A\\" inside a circle. Big deal. Real anarchy has to come from deep within. Real anarchy isn't immoral or amoral; it's intensely moral. A pseudo-anarchist spray paints a letter \\"A\\" in a circle on the side of a government building \\"to make a point.\\" A true anarchist understands that action in the present moment is what really matters and lives his life accordingly. Painting letters on buildings doesn't accomplish anything except giving the poor grunts who do the building maintenance some extra work. No one's going to see the letter \\"A\\" and decide he wants to learn about the philosophy of anarchy.<br />Questioning society's values is a great and important thing to do. But that's easy compared to questioning your own values. Questioning your own values means really questioning yourself, really looking at what you believe and who you are.<br />Who are you?<br />That's where Buddhism comes into the picture. Stay tuned.\\"<br />I hope this gives a general idea of how wonderful this book truly is. Here lies a text that can bridge the gap of social barriers, helping so many caught in a lost cause to find meaning in their lives. I am not saying that punk rockers and anarchists are all lost in their lives, but I think that a good portion of them could be. The wonderful thing about this is that it's not just for punk rockers, or any specific group really. Because it's about life, about spirituality and growing. Enjoy it.ng that punk rockers and anarchists are all lost in their lives, but I think that a good portion of them could be. The wonderful thing about this is that it's not just for punk rockers, or any specific group really. Because it's about life, about spirituality and growing. Enjoy it.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R35II5W9ZWW2N1	0861711408	313298543	Lessons from the Dying	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Rodney Smith is a great teacher	Rodney Smith has such a calming voice, there is a peaceful reflective tone contained within it. He spent a total of 8 years in monastic life, both at the Insight Meditation Society in Massachusetts and several years as a monk in Asia. He was ordained a monk in Burma, then practiced for 3 more years in Thailand. In 1983 he left life as a monk to come back to the world and, after coming back to the West, started working in hospice and teaching vipassana meditation. He is currently the head teacher of The Seattle Insight Meditation Society, whom you can find on the web and listen to a plethora of online dharma talks he has given. Truly magnificent site.<br />Rodney has dedicated much of his life to helping those who are dying, a point made clear considering his work in hospice management for the last 16 years. This book is wonderful in it's presentation. As another reviewer points out, this is a book about living above all else.  Rodney  has pulled together here several eye opening accounts about the diverse ways folks have handled their last moments. Here Smith relates us all to death with reflection on becoming unguarded and vulnerable. On learning from our experiences while living so that we can overcome this fear of the unknown. So that we can listen to others more clearly, more succinctly and perceive their suffering as well as our own. Purchase this book, it's a Dharma Gem.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R3OEW6E3R8PDLT	0861713559	397225473	The Wisdom of Listening	Books	5	27	33	N	N	Listening With Presence	Listening meditation is an all too often overlooked approach to our Buddhist practices. It is so much more than merely an exercise in recreation. Mark Brady presents us with a brilliant book with skilled techniques on just how to master this unnoticed art form. This book goes far beyond some superficial act of just having the capacity to hear. This book is about being truly present in life, about living in love. When the mind settles into meditation, here the sense of self and conceptual mind evaporates. There is a space between thinking. Here is where true listening is rooted. Listening like that connects us to other people, and allows us to actually become who we have always been. Having no ideas, we are free to understand with our very being what another might need. That might be they don't need anything at all. Listening like this let's us see our own life as that of the Buddha Shakyamuni. For further reading on the practice of listening, I recommend another wonderful book published this time by the Tuttle Library of Enlightenment dubbed \\"Going Beyond Buddha: The Awakening Practice of Listening\\" by Zen master Dae Gak. The Wisdom of Listening seldom ever gets a break at my house, it's is one of those books I constantly read for insightful sound bites when I feel I might need some pointers. So buy this book, and find your ears of Avalokistvara bodhisattva. Enjoy.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R3PCUQSJTZIEUL	0861713389	635037576	Longing for Certainty: Reflections on the Buddhist Life	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderful Work on Impermanance	Now in this work he presents is with the Buddha's teachings as they are applied to a modern lifestyle. He deals a lot with impermanence in this text, which ties somewhat into the title itself. Because certainty, gives the impression of some unchanging phenomena that exists \\"out there.\\" Yet the only thing certain is that change is certain, it is truly the one and only constant certainty. That nothing remains the same. He interweaves his experiences literally derived from nature walks to us, in order to offer up his reflections and meditations on some of the most important issues we all face in our lives. One of them, obviously being death. When we are in nature, Bhikku challenges us to focus not only on the beauty of the living substance all around us, but likewise invites us to observe and take pause at the impermanence of it all.<br />This book is kind of poetic. There is a definitely fluid flow present here. I asked myself while reading it, \\"How is that possible? Did the author intend to make this have such rhythm? Or is it simply the style of speech and teaching method he employs?\\" I still cannot really answer that question, but I can answer your question about whether or not you should purchase this book. My answer is yes.	2004-02-28
US	40001053	R2GX6C537BUM74	1573223336	12125303	No Death, No Fear: Comforting Wisdom for Life	Books	5	33	39	N	N	Cut Through Fear	For those of you who purchase this book with the bonus CD included along with the package, you are in luck. Thich Nhat Hanh takes us through meditation practice with the help of Sounds True, the Buddhist recording company. This CD is great to listen to when you want to set aside time for reflection, or just as a gentle reminder of the wonderful world we live in articulated through the voice of Thay. In this book Thich Nhat Hanh takes us all on the journey of discovery. We are provided with insightful commentary on this difficult subject of death from this much-loved Buddhist master; all in a language and format we can all connect ourselves to. What is to fear in death? We might become fearful that we will become \\"nothing.\\" Whatever our deductions of what death is are, these are merely concepts. We fear the unknown perhaps. But the unknown is in every single moment, so breaking free from our misconceptions of death means stepping into fearlessness of life. Every moment is unknown. Death is unknown. Zero degrees is three hundred and sixty degrees. No beginning, no end. Only help all beings, it's the Great Bodhisattva Vow. Then there is no life or death, instead, only the Great Vow. Buy this book if you are troubled by death and life, it can calm the human heart. Letting you know all is well. Though everything may seem crazy and chaotic, all is well. Enjoy.	2004-02-27
US	40001053	RGUW9NFQGOZ3	0553351397	130320779	Peace Is Every Step: The Path of Mindfulness in Everyday Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Practice This Book's Contents	Following Nhat Hanh's book \\"Being Peace\\", this is my next favorite by this articulate Zen master. Within you will find commentaries and meditations straight from the heart of Thay, as well as stories of his life as an activist for peace. It is so very applicable to our daily lives. Lately it's become all too clear that this world needs a healthy serving of peace. Our spiritual mouths are so hungry for this. The meditations Thich Nhat Hanh has been celebrated worldwide for are captured within this deceptively slim book. For those of you who have come to know Thay through his wide body of books, you know how well he communicates points to all of us; always with a soothing ease and simplicity. That style is more than ever evident in this text. This work is a remarkable starting point for someone interested in looking into Buddhism, searching for balance in their lives; it's for non Buddhists who are simply looking for a way to bridge the gap of divisiveness.  Thich Nhat Hanh is such a good friend to us all, and buying this magnificent book can help all of us become better friends to the world at large. Enjoy it.	2004-02-27
US	40001053	RKQQ8JYYYE2BM	0060193220	524015341	The Tao Te Ching: An Illustrated Journey	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fresh perspective on this widely translated ancient text	Stephen Mitchell, editor of Dropping Ashes on the Buddha by Zen master Seung Sahn, delivers us a magnificently illustrated and lyrically fluid rendition of Lao Tzu's famous work. You know, this book has been translated so many times, that it's nearly impossible for us non scholars to prove or confirm which one is true or absolute. The approach I have taken with The Tao Te Ching has always been a task of comparing one translation to another, seeing both what they share in common together and where there is a disparity. I am partial to The Richard Wilhelm Edition, while second on my list is this one. Mitchell has taken the liberty of alternating back and forth \\"he\\" with the word \\"she\\" throughout this work in order to convey the original meaning of Master. For, in the Chinese language, no such distinction is made. Mitchell points out that since each one of us is essentially the \\"Master\\", there is no need to cling to some kind of male prototype. It's his translation, and he is free to do what he will with it. The shattering of dualism found throughout The Tao Te Ching, to myself, makes it clear this switch is wholly in the spirit of Tao.<br />Mitchell attributes his Zen training as being the primary reason he feels he relates to those ancient Chinese Taoist masters. After all, Zen is merely the literal result of Indian Vipassana meditation and Chinese Taoism intermingling. Stephen also used existent translations already established in a wide range of languages: English, French, and German. Now I probably wouldn't recommend this as the first translation of The Tao Te Ching for a \\"beginner\\" to read, but I'm by no means against the idea, either. It's not like it's injurious,  and the prose is quite correct. I find this work in the same spirit as mostly all of the other versions I have read to date, with only slight variations. Needless to say, I really enjoyed this book immensely. I think you'll walk away with something, too.	2004-02-27
US	40001053	R1J7EJPXQE9PAC	0834804166	29642121	Zen Pivots: Lectures On Buddhism And Zen	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful Work	Sokei-An is astonishingly a very little known name to quite a few practitioners of Zen in the west; he was basically a pioneer in it's taking hold here as a valuable approach towards this very life. As Zen master Dae Gak reviewed earlier (a dharma heir of Zen master Seung Sahn), Sokei-An had the true heart of a bodhisattva. There are a lot of esoteric definitions in this work, however, and some background in Pali and Sanskrit will make this read even more worthwhile for you. Truly, it is a magnificent work on Zen. But it's no Compass of Zen (by Seung Sahn), that I must pronounce. So while you are destined to take a breadth of knowledge away from reading this book, I kind of disagree that it's for everyone (beginner and adept). Simply because some fundamental information into the meaning of many of the words he uses are required. Now, Mary Farkas does provide us with a word list in the ending pages of this book. That is to their credit. But occasionally it is nice to hear Zen put truly in American language, so as we don't need to know the definition of a definition, to see where an author is pointing us. Funny how I sound somewhat critical in these remarks, but my appraisal nonetheless is only that of applause. It's truly a wonderful book when approached with a clear and open mind.	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R1PE604YNF2GCT	0684869470	53045743	The Mythic Journey: The Meaning of Myth as a Guide for Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good Book of Basics	I really enjoyed this book, filled with beautiful illustrations and wonderful insights into the history and applicability of these ancient myths to our modern lives. This book is literally set up into chapters dealing with our daily dilemmas. Our harshest challenges. Sections on parenting, on relationships with your brother or sister; even the Buddha?s departure from life as a prince is documented in this magnificent work. The commentary to each of these stories, along with some of the questions asked of us, are what make this work even more superb. We have the myths, and the relevant commentaries to go along with them. While gentle and simplistic in it?s approach, the breadth of knowledge lying herein this book is incalculable. Absolutely immeasurable. It?s truly a great companion for any Joseph Campbell fan out there, or Edith Hamilton admirer.<br />Basic, yet challenging. What a wonderful book. Wonderful for those with no background information on mythology simply trying to begin a foundation. Likewise, excellent for any spiritual voyager stepping into the vast plateau of striving toward understanding the truth. This book can truly be an eye opening experience, so what are you waiting for?	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R2V97UCO16EKYG	0007117027	343130895	The Buddha Book: Buddhas Blessings, Prayers, and Rituals to Grant You Love, Wisdom, and Healing	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Visually Stunning	As the previous reviewer commented, this book is powerfully visual; filled with gorgeous imagery of various depictions of the Buddha and photography of young monks holding candles. Intermingled in this is a pretty good introduction into Tibetan Buddhism, wisdom applicable to your life is found herein on every page. Lillian Too's approach is simultaneously open and honest. So, if you are looking for a book of masterful art, here is your book. If you are looking for a daily devotional, here is your book. If you are looking for a brief autobiography of a typical layperson practicing the Buddha's Dharma, this is your book. It's truly fairly all encompassing. Grab it today, it will serve wonderfully in all the areas I mentioned, as well as an attractive decorative coffee table piece.	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R1LEIV6GV1OL3B	1564559068	656004980	Insight Meditation: A Step-by-step Course on How to Meditate	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Really Wonderful Package	This package of supplies is rich with aid for those struggling in practice. Do you have a long ride in for work in the morning? Toss in one of these CD's provided here for us; you'll find direct relief from whatever emotional hindrances you may be experiencing at the moment. Not by turning away, but by embracing the feeling into our entire scope of vision. The meditation cards Oshuniyi mentioned, are a wonderful way to further your practice. They laminated them onto their refrigerator. I took a card or two to work with me daily for a few months. When I had a rough day or stressful moments, I would simply glance over the cards and be instantly reminded of how wonderful everything potentially is.<br />The workbook supplied for you here is beyond price, synonymous with the CD's really. Joseph Goldstein and Sharon Salzberg have both been longtime standing Vipassana meditation teachers, both with all-embracing training in various traditions of the Buddhist path. While you use these CD's to really get in touch with the truth of your life, the workbook is a nice way to affirm what you are finding in your meditation. To nudge you in the right direction a bit. The cards can also be used to place on your home altar, to remind you of certain truths when the thinking mind wavers. What an all around great box filled with insight here.	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R2MIZ2Y8ZKUE34	0156010860	734553685	The Seven Storey Mountain	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great autobiography of this important Monastic figure	Just about anyone interested in purchasing this book is more than likely somewhat familiar with some of Merton's other works. He was perhaps the 20th century's greatest Christian contemplative mind we had the privilege of reading. This is due to the fact that so many people have expressed over the years that Thomas Merton is the reason they were drawn to the Christian faith. Even people of other religions respect this man's skilled and wise approach to otherwise dogmatic dialogues. One of the reason's this autobiography is so wonderful, is that most of us can relate to it's contents. This is not a person who just achieved some sort of \\"holy lifestyle\\" without going through some tribulations in his earlier years.<br />What draws one to Thomas Merton is his simplistic writing. In this book we find out what causes produced the effect of wanting to join the Abbey of Gethsemani down in Kentucky for him. From his years growing up in France, then on to England. Back to new York. And then, he found his home. That home was the Abbey of Gethsemani. Merton is able to bring people closer to Jesus, because he makes the story alive. Relevant to this very life in a modern era, not just a society that we are all too disconnected from by now (the society during the times of Jesus). This book is so applicable to 2004, not withstanding the fact that there are a great many of his years not documented in this work stemming from it's publication to his Death in Thailand.<br />Recalling a sad time soon after his acceptance of Christianity, Merton quotes God's caution to the Israelites, &quot;For the Land which thou goest to possess is not like the land of Egypt,&quot; and remarks that he had &quot;made the terrible mistake of entering the Christian life as if it were merely the natural life invested with a kind of supernatural mode by grace.&quot; He slowly and nervously was to learn God was dreadfully more than some mere underwriter of value. In this book Merton shows a hungriness, a drive to understand the meaning of life. The secret to living a completely holy life, immersed in servitude to our Creator. This hungriness we can all relate to, it is the drive to understand truth.drive to understand the meaning of life. The secret to living a completely holy life, immersed in servitude to our Creator. This hungriness we can all relate to, it is the drive to understand truth.	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R1BYL4MZXI7E1F	0829000798	587642369	Meaning of Philosophy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Introduction to the Basics of Philosophy	This book provides an exhaustive overview of some of the central figures in the vast world of philosophy. It can truly help anyone who is currently taking a philosophy class searching for some pointers in the right direction. I found the sections on Immanuel Kant most insightful, likewise on Descartes. The author is a reliable source, not providing too much personal critique of a philosopher. Rather, he simply offers us the actual philosophy of these great minds in language a bit more alive than some of those long and laborious works people like Kant were notorious for. This is a priceless companion to anyone looking to educate themselves in the basics of philosophical development, and the people who played a role therein throughout this world's history. Truly an excellent work.	2004-02-26
US	40001053	R3N8DE4H6NECLV	157075344X	124499657	The Raft is Not the Shore: Conversations Toward a Buddhist-Christian Awareness	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Attention-grabbing and Thought Provoking	This book is yet another of Thich Nhat Hanh's masterpieces aimed at bridging the gap between two of the worlds most important religions. Buddhism and Christianity. As the back cover tells us for starters, this is a collection of several late night discussions from the 70's that Nhat Hanh had in Paris with the Jesuit priest Daniel Berrigan. Daniel Berrigan had been placed in prison in lieu of his anti-war efforts (he was a member of the Plowshares movement). Like Thich Nhat Hanh, Berrigan would like to see peace in place of disparity and conflict between these two dominant world religions. Thich was in Paris at this time because he was in exile from his motherland of Vietnam because of his own efforts for world peace.<br />This book deals a lot with problems directly relating to the Vietnam War, a predicament both men jointly took issue with and sought nothing short of seeing it's conclusion without delays. It's essentially a manuscript containing chats on antimilitarism and religious dialogue. One must keep in mind that while these talks may seem a little disengaged from our modern times, this was a pioneering book for that particular time. The only other work I can think of that preceded this in terms of Christianity and Buddhism having discussions was in Thomas Merton's \\"Zen and the Birds of Appetite\\" with D.T. Suzuki (the Zen scholar). This is a really great book. The questions and troubles of the Vietnam War are still highly relevant today, in light of all the chaos recently surrounding all of us. If you would like an attention-grabbing and provocative book that challenges you to face really rough world issues, here is your book. I hope you enjoy it.	2004-02-23
US	40001053	R35CO874KIR4Q8	081120104X	619571111	Zen and the Birds of Appetite	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Paved With Good Intentions	Okay I love Thomas Merton, but this is one of his slower moving works. It's good; but as a below reviewer pointed out, it's certainly not for everyone. Thomas Merton had a tremendously open mind toward eastern traditions, and in Kentucky there is actually a Thomas Merton Zen center to this day. But as for a book on Zen goes, this was probably designed more for Christians than Buddhists. In fact, I am pretty sure that it was. Probably the most worthwhile and memorable section of this book was the dialogue between Merton and D.T. Suzuki, the Japanese Zen scholar at that time. Now I never liked Suzuki's style too much for my part, being a Zen practitioner I have always found his approach simply too scholarly for my blood. His Zen was that for the academic community, which is not really good or bad. It's one of the reasons Zen Buddhism has flourished here in the United States in the years since. Here Merton shines through. It's ironic, I find he defends his view on Christianity with much more veracity than Daisetz was probably hoping to convey for his part. The two tried to make it a pretty congruent, or harmonious event, but needless to say there were misconceptions on both sides of the aisle.<br />Anyway, in terms of Merton's literature concerning Eastern thought - I am much more drawn to his, \\"The Way of Chuang Tzu.\\" Much more fluent and vibrant. Zen and the Birds of Appetite, on the other hand, sets out to do some remarkable things; but I think it might actually put you to sleep. I could be wrong. After all, this is solely coming from the Zen side of the book review. There may be a plethora of Christians who truly identify with what Merton was conveying here. And similarly, there might even be a good number of Zen practitioners who feel they can relate to it as well. You know, I'm just one small voice here. I wouldn't pay too much attention to me. Because it is, nevertheless, one of those books worth having sitting up somewhere on your bookshelf. I am simply giving one take. So, I hope this review was somehow helpful for you all. I hope you enjoy the book and take something out of it.one take. So, I hope this review was somehow helpful for you all. I hope you enjoy the book and take something out of it.	2004-02-22
US	40001053	R2A9NPX7BCUY09	1570752834	212587727	Anthony De Mello: Writings (Modern Spiritual Masters Series)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	De Mello is Very Missed in this Troubled World	Whenever you set out upon a task such as capturing the spirit of a life span's worth of spiritual writing from a particular author, it's a sincerely fragile matter. The idea behind this Spiritual Masters Series is to do just that; provide us readers with a general overview of a career's worth of work from an author. In Anthony de Mello's case, they serve us the merchandise. Anthony de Mello was a Jesuit priest who died a somewhat untimely death, but nonetheless someone who unquestionably had also lived a rather fulfilling and spiritual life, too. He was well known for the fascinating and mesmerizing retreats he often gave, making audiences worldwide fall in love with his charisma and style. Anthony seldom spent time teaching much on systematic belief and dogma, a trait the Roman Catholic Church at times resented. No, Anthony de Mello brought the Bible alive for many Christians. He had enabled people who otherwise felt pretty disconnected from the spiritual teachings of Jesus Christ to come open up to and enjoy his profound teachings. He transmigrated religious barriers, attracting audiences from practically all of the major religious sectors. I cannot believe that the Catholic Church today, namely the Pope, feel that his writings went away from the teachings of Christ as the years voyaged onward. I mean here was a person with an open mind and a devotion to his faith like no other. It is a shame we do not recognize and endorse his wonderful teachings, as opposed to turning our backs and criticizing him. I of course am indicating the church's hierarchy, not necessarily you the one reading this review. Anyway, I'll end by letting you know what books by Anthony de Mello are covered here in this work:<br />Sadhana - A Way to God<br />The Song of the Bird<br />One Minute Wisdom<br />Taking Flight<br />The Heart of the Enlightened<br />Awareness<br />The Way of Love	2004-02-22
US	40001053	R25JVDRLUP7934	074350402X	561923779	Live in a Better Way : Reflections on Truth, Love and Happiness	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good Book on How to Live Your Life Meaningfully	&quot;Pay attention not only to the cultivation of knowledge but to the cultivation of qualities of the heart, so that at the end of education, not only will you be knowledgeable, but also you will be a warm-hearted and compassionate person.&quot;<br />That's merely a brief excerpt from this book filled with whimsical and charismatic anecdotes from His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. The book is in effect a decade's collection of teachings he has given throughout his life, condensed into a book for our benefit. This collection of talks he gave in the 90's plainly lays out his viewpoint about how to follow the pathway of  one's inner self. This is one of those books that you know you won't be able to put into practice flawlessly, but there are things here you will discover that can help you feel better about how you are living and benefit others.	2004-02-19
US	40001053	R2J8JW51MNE7H3	0140194614	512147330	Myths to Live By	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Captivating	Joseph Campbell was among the sharpest of human minds in the 20th century, and his unique style and wisdom can be found throughout this magnificent book. In Myths to Live By, he concentrates on the myths of various global traditions which apply to our day to day life. The stories set forth in myth truly encapsulate the human experience; the way we both see the world as well as respond to it are all there in these ancient stories. Campbell explores Christianity, Buddhism, Sufism, and Zoroastrianism - all within the contents of this deceivingly thin book. This is a must have for any Joe Campbell fan, as well as anyone looking to unearth the rich meaning of this thing we call life. Get pleasure from this book, and have fun on your mythic journey!	2004-02-19
US	40001053	RP34OIPB4SWJ4	0767904613	438956014	Going on Being: Buddhism and the Way of Change	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Reconciliation between Psychotherapy and Buddhism right here	For those readers out there searching for an avenue to make incorporating Buddhism and psychotherapy together a reality, here is your book. From his rusty beginnings at the Naropa Institute in Colorado (Buddhist University) in 1974, he reflects how he knew he was at last at home. Here he met such people as Joseph Goldstein, Jack Kornfield, and Ram Dass, just to name a few. Though he still considered Gestalt therapy to be a sound approach in terms of helping those in need out, he was attracted especially to Buddhist Vipassana meditation while at the Institute. He now proposes various forms of meditation to his patients in his psychoanalytical practice. I don't want to tell the whole story, but needless to say he has found a way to bring together Gestalt therapy and Buddhism quite well. Epstein's writing style is somewhat consoling and encouraging here. I haven't read any of his other works, but I can categorically say I got pleasure from this one from top to bottom. Honest and hopeful, here lies a book all Buddhist therapists have been waiting for. Enjoy!	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R2FJX5PYAOSI56	0385242905	767023031	One Minute Wisdom	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding Work	For those in the hunt for a deliverance of some sort, the late Fr. Anthony de Mello delivers the goods here for you all. My first exposure to Anthony de Mello was via his book titled Awareness. I don't want to spend time reviewing another book here, but it likewise is a must have. One Minute Wisdom is a book filled to the brim with sharp, charming, and sometimes outright hilarious axioms from all-around the world. De Mello dips into the treasure fields of the Gospels, Eastern and Western mysticism, et cetera. He unabashedly borrows from any spiritually sound tradition, be that a Christian or even Buddhist source. As he once put it rather succinctly in another work of his titled Taking Flight, \\"Truth only calls for an open mind.\\" And an open mind he most indubitably did have! These parables/allegories cut straight to the heart of spirituality. No commentary by de Mello, no personal interpretations of his own here (though his insights in other works are always very insightful). No, he leaves commentary up to us readers in this one. He literally covers just about anything you can visualize people setting out for a voyage into the spiritual plateau could need. Buy the book. Your going to absolutely love it.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R1HH06IDYOEQT2	0385242905	767023031	One Minute Wisdom	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Outstanding Work	For those among us in the hunt for a deliverance of some sort, the late Fr. Anthony de Mello delivers the goods right here. My first exposure to Anthony de Mello was via his book titled Awareness. I don't want to spend time reviewing another book here, but it likewise is a must have. One Minute Wisdom is a book filled to the brim with sharp, charming, and sometimes outright hilarious axioms from all-around the world. De Mello dips into the treasure fields of the Gospels, Eastern and Western mysticism, et cetera. He unabashedly borrows from any spiritually sound tradition, be that a Christian or even Buddhist source. As he once put it rather succinctly in another work of his titled Taking Flight, \\"Truth only calls for an open mind.\\" And an open mind he most indubitably did have! These parables/allegories cut straight to the heart of spirituality. No commentary by de Mello, no personal interpretations of his own here (though his insights in other works are always very insightful). No, he leaves commentary up to us readers in this one. He literally covers just about anything you can visualize people setting out for a voyage into the spiritual plateau could need. Buy the book. Your going to absolutely love it.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R2ME0HNPC5JU7P	0811201031	558887607	The Way of Chuang Tzu (First Edition) (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Superb Work	This work is incredibly fascinating. What Merton did here was craft a translation of already existing translations, picking out those sayings he held close to heart. Now after Lao Tzu, as far as early Chinese Taoism is concerned, follows Chuang Tzu concerning his impact and influence on the \\"religion.\\" Like Socrates exists largely because of the writings of Plato, so too did Lao Tzu exist as a result of many of Chuang Tzu's writings. This work, or any work involving Chuang Tzu, is a terrific friend for anyone endeavoring to study the Tao Te Ching. Thomas Merton keeps Chuang Tzu's poetic approach intact throughout this piece, while at the same time even he would confess (I'd suspect) that he was giving his own personal version to us readers. In fact he alludes to this in the introduction of this fine book. The connotations being not necessarily word for word literal accounts.<br />Chuang Tzu was a fascinating, prolific, and witty ancient Taoist master. One could even go so far as to say he was essentially a Zen master. And that Zen masters are Taoist masters. Of course the whole point of this review being----<br />BUY THIS BOOK!	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R17Q41WPUBJSXP	0802150926	252512452	The Zen Teaching of Huang Po: On the Transmission of Mind	Books	5	23	26	N	N	If You Must Buy A Book On Zen -- Here It Is	Once again a deceptively small book furnishes us with uncontainable amounts of wisdom for us lucky readers! Of all the ancient Zen masters - Huang Po, Lin Chi, and Joshu are mandatory as far as studying goes. Huang Po was in actual fact Lin Chis teacher. In this book you will hear the famous One Mind discourses, which are to say the very least mind-blowing. On the whole, he discusses how there are two types of people practicing Buddhism at one point in this work. Those taking the route of cognition, and those relying on their innate nature. Now, lets not place significance of one method over the other, but needless to say the latter is in the minority. This, in essence, is Zen Buddhism. Asking the questions for yourself while not simply being a gobbling fish.<br />Get the book. Its a must have.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	REBAC0CSJ8Y78	0385413718	786390458	Taking Flight: A Book of Story Meditations	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Books Can Speak	Following Anthony de Mello's book titled Awareness, I rank this as number two for him. The work being great for those living a life of reflection and contemplation. Before I ever practiced Zen Buddhism, and while I was not Christian either, Anthony de Mello's works were my spirituality. And my were those ever enjoyable and fascinating times. New worlds opened up to my sluggish eyes. De Mello gave me hope, made it appear, \\"Why yes. Life does have potential you silly ***.\\" This book's in essence a compilation of short to moderately long sections borrowed from various religious traditions and/or philosophical traditions. Following some of these allegories de Mello may add a concise commentary on the piece, at other moments he leaves it up to the reader to truly decipher what had been said.<br />You are going to love Anthony de Mello. So treat yourself to a great book. Go ahead. Do it. Buy this book.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R1O7EHFES7ZATV	038524939X	464201098	The Way to Love: The Last Meditations of Anthony de Mello (Image Pocket Classics)	Books	5	77	81	N	N	The Man Changed My Life	As other reviewers have alluded to, this book is deceivingly small. Do not let it's size dupe you for one moment! This composition is said to be Anthony de Mello's last authored words, filled with both profound wisdom and plenty of tidbits for personal contemplations for us booklovers. Anthony de Mello selects pieces from the Gospels in the Bible, weaving together a book all about living a life in love. It is truly extraordinary! Now I for my part do not belong to the Christian traditions, I practice Zen Buddhism in contrast. But these are just names. Religious life is simply life. Why spend our time only experiencing just one kind of religion, when we can take away some of the best from each one of them? Anthony de Mello, in my present day evaluation, represents the \\"best of\\" the Christian tradition for me to now benefit from. I imagine you will find the same. Have a pleasure reading this jewel over and over again.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R4AG7REBPT4HH	1570620636	21156452	Zen Flesh, Zen Bones (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Students of Zen-- Here Is a Must Have	This book basically holds within it's frame 4 books. The first three being published first in the 1930's! Talk about a pioneer in the field of Zen writings in the West! My goodness, is this ever a must have on your shelf if you are a practitioner of Zen. I will not say it has been my most desired book on Zen through the years; that would be a flat out lie. But I will say that contained herein are some most interesting koans. Yes koans. These allegories are not just stories your going to sit down and say, \\"Oh my, now I get what this guy is saying!\\" Not a chance. If you can, you don't even need this book. I confess to you all, that this book spends most of it's time on the shelf. Now why is that? Because I have to contemplate what was said! It may take some months, or some years in several cases. I hold some of these koans \\"in secret\\" when I am supposed to be working on another koan. They can be that vexing!<br />The first time you read this book, you'll probably go, \\"Huh?\\"<br />You may even wonder, \\"Why did I buy this?\\"<br />But I say to you now, when you are practicing this book is truly a best friend. Is it entertainment? Nope. Certainly not. Can it help you clear up the Great Matter of Life and Death?<br />Actually -- Yes. Enjoy.	2004-02-17
US	40001053	R1M0HJC2NVUHBH	0939680041	263288712	Meditations with Meister Eckhart	Books	5	49	52	N	N	Deceptively Short Book	As the previous reviewer points out, this book is small only in size. I stumbled into Meister Eckhart upon recommendations at my Zen center from both Buddhist and Christian practitioners (in my lineage many religions come together to practice zazen). I was amazed by what I found. I bought this book for 50 cents, and a 50 cents well spent! My idea, if I had to be said to hold one (of God), is that of a void or nothingness. Some call this point God, some call this point emptiness or void, or even nothing. Nearly anywhere I read &quot;God&quot; in here, if I am to replace it with void, or Tao, it reads just like a work from a Buddhist text. Meister Eckhart was truly an &quot;enlightened man&quot;, for he did not allow himself to dizzy in spells of notion sickness. Not surprisingly, as with all the great mystics and prophets throughout history in Christianity, Eckhart was declared a heretic; simply because there was no understanding of his very metaphysical and transcendent views of &quot;God.&quot; Ironically, Matthew Fox, the editor and compiler the book, had been excommunicated from the church by the Vatican, and consequently &quot;booted&quot; from the Dominican order. That's a shame, why must it always be in hindsight, that we acknowledge the wisdom of open minds?<br />Enjoy this VERY deep book	2004-01-26
US	40001053	R2QHYK36Y32PR8	0877732264	182232018	The Experience of Insight: A Simple and Direct Guide to Buddhist Meditation (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Nice Companion to Meditation	This book focuses it's compass point on Vipassana meditation, often coined &quot;insight meditation.&quot; Here Joseph Goldstein offers us a very large body of work explainig hindrances during meditation, and essentially the practice of facing what is happening. This meditation is not about contriving any sort of &quot;good feelings&quot; or &quot;happy thoughts&quot;, instead, it is the meditation of experiencing what is. And to delve a bit further, through this style of meditation we are able to see the transparent nature of these &quot;hindrances.&quot; There are many forms of meditation to practice out there, yet this is so very crucial because it is a way of saying hello to yourself, in the deepest sense.<br />I would recommend, as Goldstein does suggest, recording some of the exercises he provides here on tape to play during sitting periods. That or read a section or so right before you meditate. &quot;The Experience of Insight&quot; is a good reminder during &quot;rough periods&quot; of practice, where our minds are very restless and we feel as though something is wrong with us because of that.<br />Anyhow, I think you'll like this book, so please enjoy it.	2004-01-08
US	40001053	R3NFUJA2OAA86V	0743453360	160221493	How to Practice: The Way to a Meaningful Life	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Nice Suggestions Within	H.H. the Dalai Lama is the worlds best known monk, without a doubt. In &quot;How to Practice&quot; he provides us with useful techniques and disciplines to train the mind. In it he will not only cover the basics for beginners, he also has translation and commentary of The Heart Sutra for us. Covering Tantra, and steps designed to develop one's concentration of mind, it's hard to name anything The Dalai Lama did NOT put in this book. For those interested in Tibetan Buddhism who are looking for a &quot;step in the door&quot;, this book is probably your best bet.<br />Just to give you an idea of what is in this work, I would like to share an excerpt from the Introduction with you:<br />&quot;I believe that the practice of compassion and love-a genuine sense of brotherhood and sisterhood-is the universal religion. It does not matter whether you are Buddhist or Christian, Moslem or Hindu, or whether you practice religion at all. What matters is your feeling of oneness with humankind.&quot;<br />This, for me, sums up what our practice is all about. Instead of focusing only on our differences, we should always strive toward finding common ground. To go further, this snip actually expresses how this book is really for anyone. The Dalai Lama doesn't make it a secret that he wrote this book for Buddhist practitioners, yet also points out it is really for anyone in pursuit of &quot;happiness.&quot;<br />Truly, it's a good book. The further you read in, the more you get out. Please enjoy this book, it's a sure winner!	2004-01-08
US	40001053	R3AQY8EYL7GQO8	1570626677	207985254	Buddha from Korea: The Zen Teachings of T'aego	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Good Book, But Slow in Beginning	For about 60 pages, in the start of this book, we basically get a history of Korea. Which is fine, great, no real problem. The thing is, I bought the book to find out about T'aego. Perhaps I criticize too harshly, for J.C. Cleary delivers in this book eventually, but after what is in my view a chapter of narcolepsy. It is not until page 79 that we start hearing what T'Aego actually had to say. These sayings of T'Aego save what was destined to be a quite boring book through and through. The only reason I give the book 4 stars instead of 5, is for the beginning.<br />Now, as for T'Aego's teachings-they are a bit esoteric. A bit like listening to some of the Ancient Chinese masters, like Lin-Chi or Joshu. Many of T'Aego's sayings are much like a poem and/or koan. His sayings certainly take a bit of reflection at times, before the meaning of what has been said can be absorbed at all. But to me, that's wonderful. I don't like my Dharma easy or hard. I just like my Dharma. I enjoy picking apart, chewing the food given over and over again, until I feel ready to swallow. Old time Zen masters are great in this respect, for they force you to stumble intellectually quite a bit. Without some practice and introduction into Zen, this book probably won't appeal to you. I recommend it to &quot;initiates&quot; of Zen, though who knows. Could be you understand with no practice or understanding at all what T'Aego is saying. Anyhow, aside from the very slow beginning, tis' a good book!<br />Enjoy!:)	2004-01-04
US	40001053	R1PE28DMWY0D5L	0385475616	529299658	Zen Keys: A Guide to Zen Practice	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Good Book	&quot;To reach truth is not to accumulate knowledge, but to awaken to the heart of reality.&quot; So starts a random chapter in Thich Nhat Hanh's now quite famous book ZEN KEYS. This book is FILLED to the brim with metaphors, allegories, and meditational suggestions Thich provides us with. He references Dogen a few times, using quotes of the old Master. Also interesting is Thich's use of some koans in the end of this work, something he is not &quot;well known for&quot; in many of his works. He provides us with 43 of them to be precise, with commentary following each one. It's just interesting because through the years Thay has seemed to lay off koan work some, yet this is a unique work in that he uses them.<br />Simply put, this book will live up to your expectations if you read it through and through. Too often we place a book down during a &quot;slow part&quot;, never reading it's entirety. The most important facet of reading into Zen for me these days is approaching the texts with a &quot;I don't know it all&quot; mindset. A challenge, to say the least. After practicing and reading with teacher after teacher, group after group, sometimes you get the feeling you know something &quot;special&quot; about the Dharma. When we get this attitude, no book, no zazen, and no teacher can penetrate our ego. It is only when we become babies again that we can allow the light of truth to come back in. Get Thich's book, it's truly wonderful!<br />Enjoy:)	2004-01-04
US	40001053	R12B8VLJRRE3BO	0679781579	556967295	Ultimate Journey: Retracing the Path of an Ancient Buddhist Monk Who Crossed Asia in Search of Enlightenment	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Good Book	I am amazed by a previous reviewer commenting the book contains too much Buddha. I couldn't disagree more, though the book was a great travelogue. I personally purchased it, originally, because I thought it would be a work ABOUT Buddhism in some fashion or another. Instead, I was equally pleased to find it was more a book of travelling Asia than one about Buddhism. Bernstein's observations of Buddhism are interesting considering he is Jewish, and pretty much a non practicing one at that.<br />Though the sites he visits are ancient, the people he meets are quite modern. It is a great account on what travel in China is and was like in the past few decades, not to mention parts of Russia. This book is purely entertainment, and won't give you what your looking for in the line of Buddhism. It will however, take you to meet new people and places. Off to discover new lands in the way only books can convey. Even a lovely documentary cannot provide the insight that the written word gives us. Thanks for the outstanding book Richard Bernstein. One I am sure to read again in the future.<br />Enjoy:)	2004-01-02
US	40001053	RI5VMXUFP7VGF	0834800799	100903414	Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind: Informal Talks on Zen Meditation and Practice	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Good Book	Shunryu Suzuki was an excellent teacher and has a very impressive Dharma heir living among us today, Jakusho Kwong-roshi. The book is quite thorough and saturated in practice. The title of the book, in essence, almost conveys the entire meaning of the book. The sections on posture are helpful, as are the various other areas the book addresses. The book is probably the most popular in the history of Zen, and I guess rightfully so. I personally have found more kinship to other teachers along the way, but Roshi Suzuki was always at the very least-and excellently insightful teacher. I simply have more of an affinity to, for one reason or another, his succesor Jakusho Kwong-roshi, or Zen Masters Seung Sahn and Taizan Maezumi. Regardless, the book is excellent, so please buy it!<br />Enjoy:)	2004-01-02
US	40001053	RGSQL899B10UP	0316930938	166207962	An Open Heart: Practicing Compassion in Everyday Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tibetan Buddhism at it's finest	Kosovar, another reviewer, apparently does not realize the meaning of what meditation is. In a Buddhist perspective, it means simply concentration. To drive in concentration is not dangerous, but advisable. It is true, however, that people often are NOT at all concentrating on the moment when driving; many of us seem to lack an element of real concentration in all of our daily tasks.<br />How was the book? It was wonderful, HH The Dalai Lama is such a great teacher. Where Tibetan Buddhism from an academic standpoint can become very dogmatized and esoteric, The Dalai is able to present us with the core of what is taught. Not which Buddha did this when or where, but practical advice on this life. In &quot;An Open Heart&quot;, he provides a great introduction to anyone interested in Buddhism. Nobody often knows what tradition of Buddhism they will take when first reading into it all, and The Dalai Lama is the most popular writer on the subject to date. I think it's wonderful, thank goodness it's not someone like Taisen Deshimaru that is popular, someone who didn't understand the Dharma so well. That would be dangerous. The Dalai one can trust, a good read and informative as well. May you have many Dharma dreams to come my friends!<br />Enjoy:)	2004-01-02
US	40001053	R3MK9AVGS4QOUA	1570624143	923051757	The Recorded Sayings of Zen Master Joshu (Sacred Literature Series)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fish Hook Zen	As Korean Zen master Seung Sahn often described koans as fish hooks-Joshu's sayings are much the same way. This book is nearly impossible to approach via the intellect, the entire work is a koan. This book is much like &quot;The Zen Teachings of Master Lin-Chi&quot;, also published by Shambhala, very esoteric and highly engaging. If you want a book that is more &quot;entertaining&quot; in the conventional sense, try a book of any modern master. If you are looking for what Zen sounded like and meant to our earliest of lineages long ago, then this book is just for you.<br />Zen master Joshu was a VERY influential master in Zen history, accredited with 5 koans in The Gateless Gate &amp; 12 koans in the Blue Cliff Record. The book is not an easy read, and at first it may even bore you. This is true. But through the years your curiousity will peak now and then, forcing you to pick the book up again and dust it off a bit. It's as if Joshu must marinate you for a bit, before your mind can open to what he is saying. Read this book attentively and try not to think too much while pouring over it, this alone may be your most baffling rival. Your own thinking. Listen to Joshu, not you! I hope you get through the tough process of reading it once, and come back to it over and over again-because it is so confusing. In essence, I hope you find Joshu to be a crazy old friend.<br />Enjoy:)	2004-01-02
US	40001053	R3AWZIHMNE2VPJ	0785808728	792098814	Essential Tibetan Buddhism	Books	3	13	27	N	N	Boring	I never like to write a bad review, especially not when the author had displayed such a sincere effort to enlighten his audience. This book, however, I can't escape the inevitability of doing so; it was so very boring! I practice Zen, and admittedly am often turned off a bit by the hierarchy and dogma that seems to surround Tibetan Buddhism. This book is certainly a scholars book, not that Thurman is not a sincere practitioner-for he is. He is also a very intelligent man, at times too intelligent, for he kills any life the book could have.<br />Maybe it's just me. It's not that I like the Dharma simple. I was disappointed because I came wanting to find out more about Tibetan Buddhism, and realized it was much like reading the names in Genesis of the Bible. The Dalai Lama, as far as Tibetan Buddhism goes, is more clear to me. Perhaps that's because he leaves most of the scholastic approach out of his writings, and focuses on the marrow of PRACTICE. This book lacks much physical reference to that.<br />If you are looking to understand the Dharma, this book is for you. If you, however, are looking to UNDERSTAND the Dharma, go find a zendo and sit. That and any book by Zen master Seung Sahn, if you find Tibetan Buddhism isn't your &quot;cup of tea&quot;-will point you on your way. Sorry Robert, your book put me to sleep. Better writings next time.	2004-01-02
US	40001053	RYXC1UKX2CLNV	0385260938	548715144	The Three Pillars of Zen, 25th Anniversary Updated and Revised Edition	Books	4	5	16	N	N	Good Advice-Boring Read	I hate saying it, because Philip Kapleau is so full of the good teachings that helped Zen &quot;take&quot; here in the USA, but this book was very boring. I understand many of his students perhaps have written the reviews here and such, and that Roshi Kapleau is in fact, a very good teacher. As for being a good writer, he is not. That said, the words on each page are accurate and concise. It is the delivery that leaves much to be desired.<br />Let us keep in mind that when this book was published, the West didn't really know much about Zen. It was considered, largely, to be a &quot;philosophy&quot; that is to be understood academically. Every author writes for his or her audience, that is, any writer that wants to write another book does. This work reminds you of, though not entirely, the flavor that Daisetz Suzuki wrote with. The scholarly, intellectual route. Which, like I said, was necessary to pave way for the many teachings we would find later in the USA as a result. Roshi Kapleau paved the way for Zen, but as for this book, it simply is not &quot;attractive&quot; enough for many students of Zen today. If you want an entertaining read that provides insight, this is not really your book. If you are looking for insight, and don't care much one way or the other about the &quot;entertainment&quot; aspect-then this book is for you. All this said, I recommend the book. The oddest recommendation I have given to date.	2004-01-02
US	40001053	R2LQJY0VW0OW77	1579122795	791652414	Zen: The Perfect Companion	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Seung Sahn Strikes Back!	Not surprisingly, this book is little known to most students of Zen who through the years have come to love the Korean Zen master Seung Sahn. This is possibly due to having been published in April of 2003, or the lack of acknowledgement of Seung Sahn in the write-ups you find of the book. The face of the author is not truly important, however. This book is essentially a book filled with Zen kong-ans (koans) that Zen master Seung Sahn has often used throughout the years he taught.<br />There are 235 koans in this work, to be exact. Following each koan, Zen master Seung Sahn asks the reader a few questions, then provides a somewhat brief commentary. This book is NOT for entertainment, if you expect something along the lines of The Compass of Zen or Only Don't Know by the same author, you may be disappointed. What this book does contain is &quot;mind meals&quot;- questions and koans you could hold for many years. Your answering each koan right off is quite slim, seeing as how they are not intended to be &quot;entered&quot; via the intellect. That would be understanding Zen, not attainment. Attainment is expressed quite differently. I hope you enjoy this book!	2004-01-02
US	40001053	R1X4SZRPDF4KRY	1570629161	645081767	Appreciate Your Life: The Essence of Zen Practice (Shambhala Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Great Teacher	In the book &quot;Appreciate Your Life&quot;, we come in contact with a compilation of teachings once given by one of the West's greatest Dharma propogators. One would not be making an understatement in saying that Taizan Maezumi was quite possibly one of the most influential Zen masters of modern times. Three of his Dharma heirs include Bernie Glassman Roshi, Dennis Genpo Merzel Roshi, and Charlotte Joko Beck. If you know anything about just one of those 3 individuals, you understand Taizan Maezumi's wonderful teachings.<br />This book shows Maezumi's unique teaching style throughout, providing us with insight after insight unto both the philosophy, and more importantly, the practice of Zen Buddhism. He covers zazen, koan work-and in a nutshell, how to simply appreciate this life we all have. After all, having life is truly awesome! This being so, we go through some rough periods, as well. That's why we practice and sit zazen, why we hold a koan. And yet not only for ourselves, but for everyone we encounter. We literally practice for everyone. I also recommend Tuttle Library's &quot;Teaching of the Great Mountain: Zen Talks by Taizan Maezumi&quot; for those interested in further reading on him. Sincerely, buy this book. It's not &quot;just another book on Zen&quot;; no this book is about life. Guaranteed to not simply collect dust!<br />Enjoy:)	2003-12-31
US	40001053	R1LM2GJY51TYYW	0865475954	290404198	Unborn: The Life and Teachings of Zen Master Bankei, 1622-1693	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Important Zen History	Of all the ancient masters-Bankei seems to speak the loudest to us in modern times. The Unborn makes this clear due mostly to the wonderfully natural translation Norman Waddell has given us. Bankei had an interesting background in Chinese thought, as most youth of his day, he started out early on reading the Confucian texts. But to Bankei Yotaku, Confucianism wasn't adding up, and so he turned to Zen Buddhism. While his style is primarily that of the Rinzai, he also incorporated Soto ideology as well into his teachings.<br />Sadly, at Bankei's time, being a Zen priest all too often became a &quot;rank one wears&quot; in society, more for the aristocratic society than for the common layperson. He was a bright beacon and a simple master who spoke to the people, not just the &quot;upper class.&quot; This book is essentially a compilation of Dharma talks between Buddhist monks and priests, and himself. People from all over China would come to hear him speak of the Unborn Buddha-mind, which he instructs is always there yet while many don't know of it. It to me speaks of cutting your roots, of realizing though you were bore by your mother, there is also a part of you that remains unborn. Every moment, from moment to moment-you are being born as the Buddha. Zen master Thich Man Giac of modern times held a ceremony in which he handed out flowers to participants. He asked them to place a red flower on their lapel if their mother is still alive, and a white one on if she is dead. Jakusho Kwong -roshi recalls Thich wore a red flower. This he found funny, because Man Giac at this time was very old. So he asked him later how is mother is still alive, and Man Giac answered, &quot;My mother is Kannon Bosatsu.&quot; That is essence, is the unborn Buddha-mind.<br />I hope you enjoy this book!:)	2003-12-31
US	40001053	R212ZSG5K8AN6L	1573225681	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very Good Book	Thich Nhat Hanh in this work shows everyone just what Zen practice is all about. It is NOT a path where we convert everyone to Zen practitioners, rather, it is a path of acceptance of others as they are. This even includes ourselves. He's not out to make fruit salad here, but rather to reflect upon the benefits of the orange and apple. They are wonderful creations, both providing nourishment if chewed well.<br />This book is very important for modern times, in an age full of so much religious conflict. If we would like to help others, we must first start from the point of understanding. Without true understanding, we only understand out concept. In this area, we can begin to judge perhaps Christians, or Judaism, even Muslims. Yet true understanding is not about choosing a side, since as we find in Zen, everything just as it is and appears is ALREADY truth. We have no need to make anything, for it's all there. In a nutshell, when someone approaches a religion with a lot of ideas they will find only lie after lie. We must approach these instead with no idea; here they are all the truth.<br />Sure, sometimes Thay repeats himself here; he reiterates previous points with more light, that would be a more accurate way of putting it. Some Buddhists are put off by this book because it involves Jesus, and some Christians are turned off because it involves the Buddha. So I will offer these people a quote from the late Jesuit priest Anthony de Mello, &quot;Truth only calls for an open mind.&quot;<br />Enjoy the book:)	2003-12-31
US	40001053	RMCCFMM8UZ5Q3	0140190600	524015341	Tao Te Ching: The Book of Meaning and Life (Arkana)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Best Translation of this Ancient Text	By far this translation stands out as the absolute best in my eyes. We will never have a &quot;word for word&quot; translation of this old book, and so we are left with comparing one translation with another. I study and practice Zen, and although The Tao Te Ching in a technical sense is not considered a Buddhist work, I would dare say it should be included as a Buddhist Sutra. This translation, for those of us who speak primarily in English, is quite illuminating and very deep.<br />After having compared Richard Wilhelm's translation with 3 other sources, I've concluded that his is the most alive. I feel that my practice with Zen allows me to see this more clearly, so to me this work is synonymous with Zen Buddhism. I recommend that anyone, of any religious affiliation or philosophical background, grab this book immedietely. I don't think you will at all be disappointed.<br />Enjoy!:)	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R1KLO5OC4H86MF	1570625905	692739200	The Awakening of Zen (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Scholarly Zen	Why did I only give the book 4 stars? Many of you may be wondering that. Because the writing is very boring and the approach is too academic. The irony is I came to review the book and realized the only essay I truly got something from was the same mentioned in the previous two reviews-&quot;The Supreme Spiritual Ideal&quot;. The rest, in my honest opinion, was written for a different kind of Zen student in the earlier half of the 19th century. Where Zen was looked at as a scholarly and intellectual philosophy, to be understood through academia.<br />I try, on the other hand, to not become too critical of Daisetz Suzuki. He is one reason Zen made it's way to the West, after all. In that respect I really do thank him, but also I must be true to the people buying books here on Amazon and give my take on the material at hand. If you want another book on Zen that sits on your shelf collecting dust, I have to say, I think you've found it right here. But to each their own, you may find it engaging as well.	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R2LCH5O6HQO3KB	1573229377	690752886	Anger: Wisdom for Cooling the Flames	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Embracing Anger	I believe I understand why many people have a hard time identifying with some of Thich's writings due to repetition in many of his works. Perhaps also a few would like a more &quot;intellectual&quot; approach to the Buddha's teachings. We must truly get past this, he &quot;repeats&quot; himself because he knows how easy it is to &quot;forget.&quot;<br />In Anger: Wisdom for Cooling the Flames, I found a lot of worthwhile advice one can implement in their mindfulness practice. Reiterating the importance of not running or wishing our anger away, but rather, embracing our anger. Really, in essence, embracing any emotion that comes our way. Here we are allowed to see the emotion's inherent transperency. He provides metaphors as his examples on explaining the importance of this.<br />&quot;If a mother is working in the kitchen and hears her baby crying, she puts down anything she is holding, and she goes into the baby's room. Nothing is more urgent than the baby's cries. The first thing she does is pick up the baby and embrace the baby.&quot;<br />That's perfect, emracing another's emotional turmoil should be like embracing our own. In Mahayana Buddhism, those who accept the precepts take the Bodhisattva vow. This vow is one of saving all beings. Interdependence makes it clear that you are not seperate from this all, that indeed you are part of it. Applying the same &quot;therapy&quot; you would to another in turmoil should be likewise applied to yourself. Then you neglect no one.<br />This book can really help us grow in our practice. Sogyal Rinpoche, author of &quot;The Tibetan Book of the Living and Dying&quot;,says, &quot;Thich Nhat Hanh writes with the voice of the Buddha.&quot; I must say, I have no other choice but to agree.<br />Enjoy this book:)	2003-12-30
US	40001053	RWQOK6O3JXNDK	0865473994	152034637	The Zen Teaching of Bodhidharma (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Something New Each Time Read	If you haven't noticed by now, truth is not exempt from change. This wonderful traslation of some of the core teachings of the credited founder of Zen, Bodhidharma, makes this very clear to me. Everytime I read this tremedously important work new insight comes forward, making clear how the &quot;way&quot; is never locked in place. Not to mention this is one of very few books out there in English which gives an account of some of this famous master's teachings.<br />If you read this book with a sincere effort to realize this life, it will no doubt give you what you came for. As for a book of mere entertainment, this is not that. It is thought provoking, the meanings of every page are not spoonfed to us. We are left to search for their meanings within on our own, Red Pine simply tries to present us with the original sayings. Commentary can often confuse someone into believing that the observation an uthor makes is one and the same with what was originally said. I like how Red Pine does not do this. I believe the best translator's try their best to present us with the closest accounts as possible of what the original work was about. I believe Red Pine has certainly done this.<br />Enjoy this book:)	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R2L9ZQDMB2UCYQ	0767903692	332541339	The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching: Transforming Suffering into Peace, Joy, and Liberation	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Very Complete	Many people like Thich Nhat Hanh's works for his uncandid simplicity. This book I feel is for both the initiated practitioners and uninitiated practitioners alike. Thay covers so very much in this book, it is a bit baffling to figure where the review should begin. When I originally purchased this book, I was looking for someone to expound a bit on all the &quot;dogma&quot; I believed I saw in Buddhism. I had read a few of Thich Nhat Hanh's earlier works and had always been impressed by his &quot;unscholarly&quot; approach to the Buddha Dharma.<br />Nhat Hanh truly delivered to me what I came looking for, the book is so very thorough. He literally covers just about everything one needs to know about the &quot;ritualistic or discipline oriented&quot; side of practice here. Thich Nhat Hanh's Zen is a bit playful often, and although we see glimpses of that here, I have to say it almost IS a bit scholarly. It's truly a very exceptional book, sure to bring you more growth to personal practice.<br />Please enjoy the book:)	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R1T26Q73PW2UDN	0938077007	666857612	Being Peace	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Classic	Of all of Thich Nhat Hanh's works, I would say personally this stands out as my favorite. It is relitively short, meaning you can probably read it within a few hours. I especially like his chapter &quot;Working for Peace&quot;, where he brings up his often used poem, &quot;Please Call Me By My True Names.&quot; He explains how he, along with others at Plum Village, often take upon the task of helping refugees attempting escape from oppresive governments. The work at times becomes very tedious, many of the letters the will receive in Plum Village are heartwrenching, stories of murder or young girls being raped. Thich explains how it often becomes challenging to see both sides in a conflict, when it seems so evident there may have only been one victim.<br />Yet this is where meditation comes in, allowing yourself to truly try to understand where the perpetrator of the crime may have come from. In his poem he basically says he is both the frog and fly, or cat and mouse. In a nutshell, he shows us the middle path. Where good and bad do certainly exist, but also how no true resolution can spring forth without an attempt to understand all sides involved in a conflict. I must say I don't agree that violence can always be avoided, that sometimes a person must be stopped because they are harming other people continuosly; not to mention they are not filtering their own bad karma they create. It is with compassion that we must resolve these terrifying issues with. Love for perpetrator and everyone else in this world. Othwerwise we fan the flames of revenge and hate. Hate never once begot hate, only love begets hate. The Buddha Shakyamuni stressed that in Ancient times. It seems that Thich Nhat Hanh has rekindled the Buddha within to write this magnificent work.<br />Enjoy the book:)	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R1117P2RXL20SA	1570621241	862145881	Teachings of the Buddha	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Thankyou Jack Kornfield	Outstanding! This is what comes to mind when reviewing Jack Kornfield's compilation of the sayings accredited to the Buddha Shakyamuni retrieved from various sources. What I would recommend to the person buying this book is perhaps to read an excerpt before sitting down to meditate, or in the morning before heading off to work or school. It truly is much like a daily devotional, to be savored and &quot;picked apart.&quot;<br />I love these types of works where the &quot;author&quot; really just plays role of &quot;editor.&quot; In this particular case Jack is more of a compiler, retrieving these sayings from a large variety of sources. I appreciate how he simply presents us with the material, but does not do our homework for us. I am always reminded by a man who asked a shaman to interpret a dream he had, while the shaman replies, &quot;Sure, that's great.You should hire me to interpret all of your metaphors for you, I could be your wife, too. In the night you can just roll over and ask me what it all meant. I can spoonfeed you breakfast, lunch, and dinner, as well.&quot; The man who asked for the interpretation then laughs, realizing the shaman's wonderful teaching. We must find our own commentary for our Buddhist practice to grow any, much like Basho's famous &quot;Ancient Pond&quot; poem.<br />I hope you enjoy this book:)!	2003-12-30
US	40001053	R1EH8ZV5CBCYSL	0609610805	100262739	No Beginning, No End: The Intimate Heart of Zen	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Brilliant Modern Master	Aside from being Dharma heir to the late Shunryu Suzuki-roshi, Jakusho Kwong-roshi is also one of only 9 Western Zen teachers to have been given the title of Dendo Kyoshi (Zen teacher) by the Soto sect in Japan. It is not often one finds themself coming across a book so thoroughly complete with the good teachings.<br />The style is simplistic and exhaustive thoroughout, I rank Jakusho Kwong-roshi among the very best of contemporary Zen masters. His style is certainly reminiscent of his former teacher Suzuki, while we also see glimpses of similarity with Zen master Seung Sahn and Taizan Maezumi-roshi. No Beginning, No End is a very important contribution to modern Zen literature, in striking contrast to some of the hot air you often find on the bookshelves. The work comes from a person truly knowledgable of the Dharma, filled with both humor and monstrous wisdom.<br />So out of all the Zen literatures out there to date, this book has become one of a select few I hold dear. I am grateful to have found this rare Dharma treasure, which rekindled my belief that I would again find a true teacher among us teaching and writing. I am halfway tempted to leave my current lineage and take off towards the Sonoma Mountain Zen Center in Santa Rosa, California where he currently teaches. Enjoy this book, it's really extraordinary.	2003-12-29
US	40001053	R3BXLZS1G7VAJJ	0525481419	372307808	Questions to a Zen Master	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Decent Book	Ok, to be fair to Taisen Deshimaru here-a previous reviewer mentioned some sort of a sex scandal which involved him. I looked everywhere I could using Googles search engine to look into the matter, and never once came across anything concerning that. So as far as I know, that reviewer is the only source for the information.<br />Now, how was the book? If you are just starting out in Zen, I would not recommend this book to you. Not that it is complicated stuff. You just need a bit of seasoning to swallow some of it, and to discriminate a little between what is accurate, and not accurate. For those starting out, I would recommend any books by Zen Master Seung Sahn-ie. the Compass of Zen, Only Don't Know, Dropping Ashes on the Buddha. These books will give you a more (yes, in my opinion) accurate account as to just what Zen practice is all about.<br />This book is in a question and answer format, and sometimes you get the impression he simply cannot handle the question. Does this mean everything he has to say is useless? Not at all. In fact I did take away some useful teachings from this book. At other points, however, I shook my head laughing out loud. So it's a coin toss, if you are somewhat familiar with Zen-this book is innocent fun. If you are unfamiliar with Zen, it could prove to be a dangerous introduction in my view. So there it is, my first 4 star review-I try to be a little nice!	2003-05-23
US	40001053	RX4R9F7ZCHDG5	0767906519	720855041	To Shine One Corner of the World: Moments with Shunryu Suzuki	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Nice Daily Reminder Book	This book's contents is approximately 123 pages long, on each page there is anywhere between 2 to 6 sentences. Very short, yet often insightful, tidbits of wisdom on each page. The way I would recommend reading this book, is to not read it all at once. Rather, pick the book up for those times of great doubts, select any page-and read. It's simplicity is it's best quality. Sometimes we can become so lost down the philosophical or intellectual road, that we need a book like this to say: the tree is a tree. But no, there is more to the book then that.<br />For anyone interested in further reading into Zen, I would recommend The Compass of Zen by Zen Master Seung Sahn. Seung Sahn delves right into the 3 schools, Hinayana, Mahayana, and Zen (the two latter being the same mostly). The reason why I mention Seung Sahn is because I have a lot of admiration for his teaching style-no one compares. But, that said, Shunryu Suzuki's books, especially Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind-are at the very least-insightful.<br />The following is an example of the sort of page you may come across in this book:<br />A student, filled with emotion and crying, implored,&quot;Why is there so much suffering?&quot;<br />Suzuki Roshi replied,&quot;No reason.&quot;<br />Enjoy this book:)	2003-05-23
US	40001053	R1ECX5NU0JZ48U	0877730059	304875055	The Diamond Sutra and the Sutra of Hui-Neng (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Very Nice Translation	Sutra translation into English is absolutely no easy task, yet A.F. Price does an excellent job here. The Diamond Sutra is probably the singlemost important sutra to all of Mahayana Buddhism, and particularly those schools of Zen. For those unfamiliar with this sutra, it is simply a dialogue between Subhuti, Buddha's disciple-and the Buddha himself.<br /> The Diamond Sutra says, \\"All things that appear in this world are transient. If you view all appearances as nonappearance, then you will see the true Buddha.'' \\"All things that exist are like a dream, a phantom, a bubble, a reflection; they are like dew or lightning; thus should you view them.'' \\"If you are attached to color and sound and want to see your true nature, you are on the wrong path.''<br />This sutra demonstrates, in it's basic presentation, how the mind that discriminates this from that: I like this, I don't like that/ correct/incorrect-is forever chained to delusion. But a Buddha cuts through all opposites thinking. A Buddha sees past the evident and does some investigation. Understanding does not help us-action is understanding! Basically our ideas blind our eyes-but our eyes originally have no idea-they just look. So if we can attain a mind like that, a just looking mind, not a same/different mind-we can take true steps toward liberation.<br />Then we have the Sutra of Hui neng, another Buddhist classic. Hui Neng, as many of you may know-was the 6th Zen Patriarch in China. Hui Neng heard just a very few lines from the Diamond Sutra and completely understood himself with no practice at all. But he had a lot of karma. Many were trying to kill him for having received transmission from a very famous Zen Master, the Fifth Patriarch, and became the Sixth Patriarch with no training, no education. He had a lot of karma for all these people were trying to stick a knife in his back. So he had to go away in the forest for sixteen years and live with hunters and kill, living under trees with no roof over his head. Finally, after that length of time, he came out and took the Precepts and became a monk before he began teaching.<br />So The Sutra of Hui neng is almost like an autobiography of Hui Neng-a somewhat brief one-yet quite deep and insightful. So toss this book up, it always lands heads. Read this book often-it may seem slow at parts due to the ancient dialects-but true wisdom is on every page. Read it enough times, and your minds eye can open up! So what, [money] for this kind of crazy man's wisdom-what a bargain! Enjoy:)ead. Finally, after that length of time, he came out and took the Precepts and became a monk before he began teaching. <br />So The Sutra of Hui neng is almost like an autobiography of Hui Neng-a somewhat brief one-yet quite deep and insightful. So toss this book up, it always lands heads. Read this book often-it may seem slow at parts due to the ancient dialects-but true wisdom is on every page. Read it enough times, and your minds eye can open up! So what, [money] for this kind of crazy man's wisdom-what a bargain! Enjoy:)	2003-05-23
US	40001053	R1SIH98BME1F86	0385249373	908486357	Awareness: The Perils and Opportunities of Reality	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Great Man	I am forever indebted to this book, for it was the start of many eye opening experiences to come. Though I did not take the Christian route, I stumbled into Zen Buddhism as a result of it. That was 5 years ago. Little did I know how different my entire outlook upon life would change when innocently opening that first page!<br />Basically he made me comfortably nervous. I started to ask myself zillions of questions as a result of this book, questions I never would have dreamed up otherwise. But every page I turned I kept saying, &quot;my goodness, he is so dang right!&quot; I couldn't argue against his words, they were very clear, very open, and very insightful. Since then I have read a few other works by this Jesuit priest, and I must say Awareness is the best. Perhaps that is due to it being a replica of talks he gave-that it brings out his &quot;natural voice&quot;, rather then his &quot;author voice.&quot; But yes, this book certainly has life changing potential. But perhaps it was just a book that was there for me at a specific time that, looking back, has a few errors within as well. Not a big deal-so maybe the conditions for you in this life are right. Perhaps this book can kickstart an awakening within you-a desire to embark upon a spiritual journey-regardless of theological, ideological, or even philosophical backgrounds.<br />I hope this book can do for you, what it had done for me. Enjoy;)	2003-05-23
US	40001053	R20B3G32W6GGTF	0312209452	935839269	A Glimpse of Nothingness: Experiences in an American Zen Community	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Brilliant Work	I picked this book up in a college town's bookstore while visiting my sister. Sometimes I will just pick up a handful of books in the Eastern Philosophy section, and see what I get when I take off my blindfold. On the car ride home I was unsure while glancing over it if I was going to like this one or not. The back speaks of \\"...Zen sages who were alcoholics, the two natured personality of Zen Masters who enjoy sex and cowboy movies...\\"-I personally found this description of the contents after having read it, frankly completely off base.<br />This book is about a Zen student's adventures from Japan, back to Amsterdam, to the United States-where this book takes place for the most part. It could be any Zen community really, it shows what it is like working with others in a very accurate manner. He writes with a direct simplicity-he is not wordy, just says it how it was. Now did I agree with everything he had to say about Zen? Not at all, but the important thing is I was asked a lot of questions while reading this book. And that's what any good book can do above all else, is ask questions-rather than saying, \\"here, agree with me.\\"<br />A passage of his book that provided myself with a lot of insight goes as follows,<br />\\"A Chinese allegory tells how a monk sets off on a long pilgrimage to find the Buddha. He spends years and years on his quest and finally he comes to the country where the Buddha lives.<br />He crosses a river, it is a wide river, and he looks about him while the boatman rows him across. There is a corpse floating on the water and it is coming closer.<br />The monk looks. The corpse is so close he can touch it. He recognizes the corpse, it is his own.<br />The monk loses all self control and wails.<br />There he floats, dead.<br />Nothing remains.<br />Anything he has ever been, ever learned, ever owned, floats past him, still and without life, moved by the slow current of the wide river.<br />It is the first moment of his liberation.\\"<br />This book is brilliant in all places, it shows some struggle with inner questioning. A wrestling with the author's own cleverness. It almost feels like a diary. One that just so happened to have been written while having a stay with a Zen community. I believe you will come to appreciate this book a lot.is brilliant in all places, it shows some struggle with inner questioning. A wrestling with the author's own cleverness. It almost feels like a diary. One that just so happened to have been written while having a stay with a Zen community. I believe you will come to appreciate this book a lot.	2003-05-21
US	40001053	R292SFKV0BT7OK	0062517007	175708639	One Dharma: The Emerging Western Buddhism	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Insightful and Provoking	This is actually one of my favorite books written by Joesph Goldstein. This book is about &quot;blending together&quot; the traditions of the East, and &quot;sprouting forth&quot; this new seed in the West. He pours over such conecpts, well for instance: say we have 3 teachers from 3 traditions saying 3 seemingly contradictory things. We can deduct that one is right, and two are wrong; or that all 3 are wrong. Or we can acknowledge that perhaps all 3 have already gone BEYOND that realm of right and wrong. Basically, every street takes you somewhere- does this mean the roads are contradicting eachother? Not at all, they simply go somewhere. So relax in life.<br />We in America are in my opinion lucky there is a Joseph-this book is for beginners and adepts alike. And it is of really no significance what tradition or sector of Buddhism you yourself hail from, this book transmigrates those lines. I believe that you will enjoy this book.	2003-05-08
US	40001053	R30PDOBPYVM94F	0385418868	26788304	The Power of Myth	Books	5	54	61	N	N	Crazy Joe	This is the transcript of the Bill Moyers interview with Joseph Campbell done with him years and years ago-a stunning interview-a stunning book. Readers will enjoy the book format because let's face it-when Crazy Joe Campbell was talking-sometimes we needed more time than which was given to &quot;absorb what was said.&quot; From talking about the Great Seal on the American dollar bill and it's mythological connections-to pouring over a letter from Chief Seattle to George Washington about the purchase of land, this book is never uninteresting.<br />And to give Bill Moyers due credit as well as an excellent journalist who always knows the right question to ask-and whom unlike a lot of journalists today-actually cares about what he is and was covering. In fact, sometimes Moyers says something quite insightful on his own-it is the coming together of two great minds in a question and answer format-that produces the end result of genius-pure genius. If you are unfamiliar with the Bill Moyers interview, I would recommend purchasing it on here, the 6 tapes, or waiting until PBS airs it again-they always do. Afterall, it's one of PBS's all time ratings grabber. The reason I say that is hearing the way Joe Campbell speaks, seeing in flesh just how engaging of a man he is-allows the reader to &quot;imagine him speaking through the book.&quot; To me-that makes a huge difference.<br />This book is a winnner all the way-regardless of what religious background you hail from-what sort of philosophy if any you engage-this book will certainly impress you the reader. It could actually change someone's life in the context of stimulating someone's interest enough in mythology-to begin looking into it. Or, it can broaden your insight into your own spiritual life in of which you have already established. Any way you toss this book up-it's heads. So buy it.	2003-05-08
US	40001053	R2M2GWW5PWXAL9	0802851096	116339182	Thomas Merton: Poet, Prophet, Priest (Men of Spirit)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Nice Book About Merton's Life	Hello everyone! To me this book was terrific because it actually prompted me to order The Seven Story Mountain-Merton's personal autobiography. Spanning over the now famous Trappist Cistercian monk's life-born in France- son of a father with a Bohemian lifestyle - and motherless at the age of 6. Tom went through a lot of obstacles that as do we all. And I think THAT is where one of the largest draws towards him is. That tatse of humanity becoming saintly- sin purifying in black and white. He makes it easy to believe.<br />Jennifer Fisher Bryant did an excellent job covering as much as she could on Thomas Merton's life in just 192 pages. It is important to note that this is a young adult's book technically-the average adult can read through this within a few hours. But that's another reason why I personally found it wonderful-within a day I felt I knew a lot more ( well I DID know more ) about this spiritual man. This Trappist whom believed in interfaith dialogue! In remaining open to the truth, without jeapordizing his own religion, either! To me-Thomas Merton is one of just a few men that I believe have show us what being a true Christian is all about. You all take care-and enjoy this book-you deserve to treat yourself to it!	2003-04-29
US	40001053	RGGJSNB97LU4V	0374513252	276563136	Thoughts In Solitude	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Very Nice Piece of Work	This is actually the first time I have FINISHED a Thomas Merton book- not to say I do not find him normally interesting- actually it's the opposite. When I had been reading Merton's &quot;New Seeds of Contemplation&quot; a few years back, I was very confused. Confused in a good way- because it forced a lot of deep questions to arise within me. So much so that I never seemed to actually get anywhere with the reading.<br />But Thoughts in Solitude has a different flavor to it- do not get me wrong- it is still that extremely contemplative and philosophical Merton everyone loves. But it has a feeling about it that it's more- refined- or perhaps relaxed would be the word I am looking for. I think it is important to point out that I am actually a Zen Buddhist, but this sort of view on God that Merton has- is not to far askew from my own. Though I simply don't &quot;make that word God&quot; from the get go.<br />But all in all, Merton shows us one of his best works in this book. The words simply jump out at the reader, they are alive with the food so many of our spiritual lives stomachs are craving for. So order this book. When it arrives, kick off them shoes, put on that REGULAR coffee, maybe run some bathwater- and relax! You will absolutely enjoy this book. The type of book that could be written actually nowhere else but a monastery if you ask me. It has an, &quot;This was meant to be private&quot;- kind of feel to it. But that's just Merton at his best-I doubt there is any real intrusion on our, the reader's part. Anyway I hope you enjoy the book;)	2003-04-29
US	40001053	R383UL8HLSFDMV	0744000416	116230003	Final Fantasy IX Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Horrific, SCARY-WASTE OF MONEY	A resounding NO!!!I think it's time Squaresoft pleases the fans here and came up with a SECOND version of a FF IX Strategy Guide, because as everyone echoes here more and more, this guide STINKS! Let's say you just got done beating a boss, or you want to know if a boss has valuable items to steal, or if there is a side quest that would be fun to take on a certain disc...this guide tells you to go ONLINE every single time you need answers! ...I COULD HAVE written a better guide even if I never played the blasted game. So those of you wanting a good, complete strategy guide for FFIX... DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY...	2003-01-19
