US	40022611	R1MQGJ76ZD0T4A	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Disappointing	I looked forward to reading this book both because it had such an intriguing premise and it won the Poe award last year. Unfortunately, I was disappointed. <br /> <br />The year 1893 was both a triumphant and tragic year for the city of Chicago.  Daniel Burnham and his fellow architects put together a grand World's Fair despite numerous obstacles.  Larson does a great job in describing the problems in organizing the fair including the economic difficulties, the feuding between architects, and especially the actual construction of the White City.  The central character in this story is architect Daniel Burnham who toils for years in order to make sure Chicago pulls the fair off in grand style.  Though Burnham is the primary subject, the secondary characters, including Louis Sullivan, Frederick Olmsted, Frank Lloyd Wright, and George Ferris, are what give body to the fair's history.   <br /> <br />Larson alternates the chapters on the World's Fair with ones telling the parallel story of the evil Dr. H.H. Holmes.  Dr. Holmes is probably the most twisted man I've ever read about.  He succeeded in defrauding and murdering dozens of people in his eerie mansion adjacent to the fair and performed his activities like a consummate professional.  How does a doctor turn into such a beast?  Larson does a fine job in revealing the chronology of Dr. Holmes murder spree but does little in attempting to answer the previous question.   <br /> <br />Both stories are told well, but Larson has essentially combined two separate books into one.  The stories of the World's Fair and of Dr. Holmes did occur at the same time in the same city, but they are essentially separate tales.  The book jacket implies that the two stories are integrated, but in fact, there is not much that links them.  Dr. Holmes interaction with the fair was fairly limited.  He took some of his victims there and housed many of its visitors in his hotel, but that is the extent of his involvement in the story of the fair. <br /> <br />This book does present an interesting history of Chicago in the late 1890's, but perhaps, I expected something more than the author offered. <br />	2005-02-27
US	40022611	R34CNS74H97VIR	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	2	18	25	N	N	Not sure what to title this	\\"Liberals have a preternatural gift for striking a position on the side of treason.\\" This is the first sentence of the book and a pretty definitive summary of Ann Coulter's views on liberals. <br /> <br />First the positives: <br />In this book, Coulter is out to prove that liberals have been grossly ineffective at foreign policy and national security since World War II.  She begins with the liberals' defense of Alger Hiss and other known/unknown Communists of the 40's and 50's.  She provides a great deal of evidence that liberals were unreasonably tolerant of enemies amongst them.  She continues her book with a long defense of Joe McCarthy that will definitely give you pause and possibly reconsider many things you've heard about the man.  She also provides a good argument for Reagan's preeminent role in ending the Cold War. <br /> <br />Now the negative: <br />Many of Coulter's arguments are good.  She provides a lot of evidence, and there are pages of footnotes in the back.  I was especially impressed by her defense of McCarthy.  Of course, there are some problems.  Her views are so ridiculously one-sided and her attitude so vicious that it's really hard to believe that what she's saying is the truth.  Just see how one-sided her views were, I was actually on the lookout for any positive thing that Coulter wrote about a single Democrat/liberal in this entire book. There is only one: \\"In the most patriotic act of his career, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan...\\" That's it.  Instead, Democrats are subjected to ad hominen attacks ad nauseum. <br />Examples: <br />Clinton - \\"pot-smoking draft-dodger\\"  <br />Carter - \\"self-righteous, vengeful, sneaky, and backstabbing\\"  <br />Kucinich - \\"strange-looking little man\\" <br />(There are a lot more and many much worse) <br /> <br />Not a single Republican/conservative is subjected to an insult or an ad hominem attack - this is not an exaggeration, I was on the lookout.  She has plenty of compliments for McCarthy, Reagan, and Fox News, but not even a single one for FDR. <br /> <br />On top of that, Coulter seems to have forgot the gravity of the word \\"treason.\\" Treason is a rather serious word, but Coulter uses the word so liberally (pun intended) that it can't be taken seriously.  Almost every Democrat/liberal mentioned in her book is guilty of treason or is called a traitor. <br /> <br />If her virulent attitude weren't enough, her humor makes reading her book even worse. She has been complimented for her wit and wisecracks.  Here are a few lines from her book: <br /> <br />After lauding Irving Berlin for writing \\"God Bless America\\", she says, \\"If only Berlin were around today, he could write us a new song for the war on terrorism, something like \\"Good-bye Walla, Walla, I'm Off to Smash Allah.\\" - Is that funny!? I wonder how she would respond to the song \\"Our AK's beside us, we're off to slay Jesus.\\" Not so funny now, is it? <br />She also makes three jokes about France and cheese including one about France using its \\"cheeses of mass destruction.\\" Maybe I just don't get it, but I don't find any humor in her writing. <br /> <br />Final verdict: <br />The book is thought-provoking at times, and I am definitely going to read up on some of the people she mentioned, especially McCarthy and Whitaker Chambers.  On the other hand, this is easily the most hateful book I have ever read. I recommend this book not for its information but only for insight into how some people on the far right think.	2004-11-02
US	40022611	R39XJGL14C2JGB	0446677922	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Where have I read this before?	First off, this novel is a good read but (see later) <br /> <br />Basic synopsis: It's a coming-of-age story within the context of a murder mystery.  Young Harry Crane and his little sister Tom discover the mutilated body of a black prostitute by the riverside. Their father, one of the important lawmen around, attempts to track down the killer but is continuously stymied by racial tension and misunderstandings.  Throughout the novel, Harry grows to understand his father and through him, the concept of manhood.  He also begins to appreciate the sharp division between the races and learns from his father that everyone should be treated the same regardless of their skin color. Of course, I'm not going to tell you the ending, but it is pretty good. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, it seems like Lansdale has read To Kill a Mockingbird a bit too many times and is channeling Harper Lee's story throughout the novel.  Both this book and Lee's star an older brother and younger sister learning to deal with racial issues. Both look up to a father who is righteous and seeking justice despite the racial divide. Both books also feature a greatly misunderstood social outcast who becomes very important in saving one of the characters.   <br /> <br />I did enjoy this book, but I felt that the story was too derivative of To Kill a Mockingbird. Recommended for an interesting mystery but not for originality.	2004-10-11
US	40022611	RAIIYIGVYFO3Y	0060524073	583097215	My Life Among the Serial Killers: Inside the Minds of the World's Most Notorious Murderers	Books	2	86	95	N	N	Interesting in parts, but not really that good overall	Dr. Morrison has a 100 lifetimes of experience with serial killers.  She's interviewed and studied many of them including John Wayne Gacy and Bobby Joe Long.  She has even been able to conduct mail correspondence with some of them for years.  What has she learned from all of this? Quite a bit for sure.  She is convinced that serial killers are essentially created in utero.  Genetic anomalies create serial killers not parental upbringing or life experience.  Dr. Morrison arrives at this conclusion essentially because the data she has collected throughout the years has convinced her that head injuries, childhood experience, social status, etc. does not consistently have much to do with producing a serial killer.   <br /> <br />Is she right? In my opinion, she is partially right, but her exclusion of other reasons is simply not good science.  No doubt certain people are genetically predisposed to engage in antisocial behavior and even murder, but Dr. Morrison's assertion that serial killers are essentially created in the womb sounds bogus to me.  Genetic predisposition can only be operated upon by environmental factors to engender certain behaviors, yet the author dismisses all the killers' life experiences as not significant enough to contribute to their actions.  As she points out, it is true that the serial killers that she studied do not have a consistent set of life experiences, but she does not even account for the fact that different life experiences affect different people differently. <br /> <br />Finally, her thesis is not helped by the fact that her writing is obnoxiously self-righteous.  She portrays many people she has dealt with including lawyers, writers, and fellow psychiatrists as incompetent, misguided, and dishonest.  Her characterizations may be correct, but since she portrays herself consistently as an intrepid, truth-seeking scientist whose views simply must be correct, her writing often comes off as arrogant and hollow. <br /> <br />Don't waste your time on this one.  Get Hunting Humans by Elliott Leyton instead for an interesting viewpoint.	2004-09-19
US	40022611	R3UM76KFDYAKA4	1586482165	20105947	Allies: The U. S., Britain, Europe, And The War in Iraq	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The case for war for those against it	Like a previous reviewer, I read this book to learn about the reasoning behind going to war in Iraq.  Although I am still opposed to the war, I understand the opposing viewpoint much better because of this book.  Shawcross brings up numerous important points such as:<br />1) Iraq's repeated violations of UN resolutions for over a decade with respect to weapons development<BR>2) Saddam Hussein's continued brutal oppression of the Kurds and Shiite majority<BR>3) The considerable evidence that Hussein tried desperately to obtain the materials to manufacture WMD<BR>4) And perhaps the most important point being that the opposition to the war from France and Germany appear to be driven by economic and political goals rather than an objective assessment of the need to go to war<br />Shawcross does a good job in making the case for war.  However, a few issues he minimizes include:<br />1) Faulty and fabricated intelligence<BR>2) The unproven link between Iraq and al-Qaeda<BR>3) The accusation that many officials in the Bush administration including the president himself seemed to have wanted this war from the very beginning and used the war on terror as an excuse<br />Everyone has an opinion on the war in Iraq, and as one who opposes it, I still gained a much greater understanding of the opposing viewpoint from this book.	2004-06-07
US	40022611	R2M0MUDBH94VSJ	0716735601	331200859	What Are The Odds?: Chance In Everyday Life	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good intro to basic probability	Though subtitled, &quot;Chance in Everyday Life,&quot; Orkin primarily uses gambling and war to discuss probability.  The book starts off with a few chapters of basic probability, and Orkin uses several short passages to illustrate some of the common misconceptions many of us share about the role of chance.  <br />The meat of the book, however, is concerned with gambling and war.  Orkin gives entertaining explanations for the various odds associated with roulette, craps, slots, and blackjack.  His reasoning is easy to understand and will hopefully disabuse gamblers of the notion of lucky streaks.  Orkin then goes on to discuss spend a couple of chapters on zero-sum game theory and the prisoner's dilemma.  He effectively uses examples involving two warring generals who must decide to attack, defend, cooperate, etc. when presented with various options and the payouts associated with them.  <br />This book would have gotten 4 stars had it not been for the unnecessary last chapter where the author discusses zero-sum game theory with respect to the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia.  Unfortunately, the chapter comes off less like a lesson in game theory, than an opportunity for Orkin to present his political views.  Politics just doesn't belong this book.<br />This is a decent book and a short read.  If anything, pick it up for the short discussions on gambling.	2004-06-01
US	40022611	R2RWWC9ONR1P42	0312423799	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great follow-up to Running with Scissors	Alcoholism is a serious disease contrary to what many people think, and Burroughs makes this point abundantly clear in his follow-up to Running with Scissors.  In his first memoir, Burroughs recalls his extraordinarily bizarre childhood amongst a bipolar mother, his mother's crazy psychiatrist, a pedophile, and other strange characters.  In this more poignant memoir, Burroughs recounts his adult struggle with alcoholism.  <br />We discover in the beginning the book, that Burroughs has become a successful advertising executive, but his success is threatened by the fact that he is a raging alcoholic.  After missing several important meetings and repeatedly interacting with clients and coworkers with alcohol on his breath, he is finally sentenced to rehab.  This is where Burroughs' memoir really picks up.  His descriptions of the rehab facility, the seemingly inane activities he endures, and the relationships he develops with fellow patients are priceless.  He makes it through rehab only to discover that the difficult struggle to remain sober requires a bit more than he bargained for.  He does relapse for a period of time but stays dry as the title of his memoir suggests.<br />What makes Burroughs' memoir especially poignant is the subplot involving his best friend Pighead, an HIV positive man on the downward spiral.  Burroughs loves Pighead, but the combination of his alcoholism and denial eventually lead to the book's very emotional ending.  <br />I can't say enough about this book.  It is brutally honest and touching and deals with many issues that many will find difficult to deal with e.g. alcoholism, homosexuality, AIDS.  If you liked Running with Scissors, you'll like this more mature memoir better.  Highly recommended.	2004-06-01
US	40022611	R3E43JKFANGEDJ	0060954809	385195167	Ghosts of Manila: The Fateful Blood Feud Between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier	Books	3	26	32	N	N	Kram doesn't like Ali, but he doesn't really get it	It seems that Kram's primary goal in Ghosts of Manila is to deconstruct Ali's mythical legacy.  He claims to be one of the few journalists who saw and still see Ali as he truly was - a not-so-bright, often mean-spirited, self-promoting man and easily manipulated tool of the Nation of Islam.  He rejects the idea of Ali being a real symbol of the civil rights movement, and instead, he portrays him as a propaganda machine for the Nation of Islam.  The author also takes serious issue with Ali's treatment of Frazier who he portrays as a fine human being with a few minor flaws whose life was permanently changed for the worse as a result of his bouts with Ali.<br />Now, there are definitely truths to Kram's viewpoints.  Sure, Ali was not really the civil rights hero he's often portrayed to be.  He was also an incorrible womanizer, and he didn't treat a lot of people around him very well.  Unfortunately, Kram goes overboard in his attempt to completely destroy the Ali myth.  For instance, maybe Ali wasn't the sharpest tool in the shed, but he was smart enough to use psychological warfare against both Frazier and Foreman inside and outside of the ring.  Neither Frazier nor Foreman could fight back in like manner suffering devastating losses as a result.  Also, Kram forgets a big reason why Ali was so loved.  He was so damn charismatic.  One needs only to view the Oscar-winning documentary &quot;When We Were Kings&quot; to appreciate Ali's appeal.<br />The story of Frazier's life is indeed sad, and he is still not appreciated as the great fighter that he was.  Unfortunately, no matter how much Kram wants to build up Frazier's legend while destroying Ali's myth, the fact remains that Ali's place in sports history is secure because of his arrival at the right time in boxing and politics and not to mention, he was a hell of a fighter.<br />I did learn a great deal from this book, and I do agree with the author on many points about Ali's myth.  I just think that he went for the overkill and failed.	2004-05-30
US	40022611	R2W2QCM4J5DECL	0316735655	960898638	Live From New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live, as Told By Its Stars, Writers and Guests	Books	4	1	1	N	N	History of SNL as told by cast members,writers,producers,etc	Live from New York is a hefty volume collecting the experiences of the numerous cast members, guest hosts, writers, producers, and others involved with the show since 1975.  This book helped me understand how hard it is and has been to keep SNL on the air.  Although cocaine and other stimulants are largely absent in the SNL offices today, as we're told to believe anyway, the show still mandates at least one-nighter and four days of incomparable stress to produce one and half hours of TV on Saturday night.  This work regimen has produced some of the funniest moments in TV history and has established SNL as a cultural icon.<br />Almost every important person involved with show throughout its history except Eddie Murphy was interviewed for this book, and the entire book save maybe 10 pages consists of clips of these interviews.  We get to read about Lorne Michaels' and Dick Ebersol's early struggles to put the show on in 1975.  We learn about the greatness of the original cast and its drug-induced wildness and internecine warfare.  The book then does a great job in describing the lows of the show during the Jean Doumanian and Dick Ebersol years and SNL's subsequent resurrection during the years of Phil Hartman, Dana Carvey, Jon Lovitz, Mike Myers, etc.  The new cast surprisingly gets quite a bit of space in the latter part of the book considering its competition in the previous pages.  The authors also spend a number of pages presenting various people's reactions to the deaths of John Belushi, Gilda Radner, and Chris Farley.<br />Live from New York does a great job of letting us know about the unseen drama that has occurred behind one of the greatest shows in TV history.  Using the interviews as the actual text was a great idea because the interviewees' words came through unadulterated.  My only criticism of the book is that at almost 600 pages, it's a bit long, but that's it.	2004-05-23
US	40022611	R3BVFM83205MEL	031242227X	994951933	Running with Scissors: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enlightening, disturbing, funny, and a lot of other things	Augusten Burroughs' memoir can make you laugh, cry, and retch in various combinations.  Strange and disturbing don't adequately describe Burroughs' childhood.  Being raised until pre-adolescence with an alcoholic father, a bipolar mother, and a brother with Asperger's certainly did much to shape Burroughs' life, but his teenage years spent in the house of Dr. Finch, surely one of the strangest characters ever to be described in a book, constituted the bizaare formative period that gave birth to this memoir.  In the Finch house, Burroughs experienced things far removed from the realm of normal childhood including  pedophilia courtesy of Dr. Finch's mentally disturbed adopted son and a disgusting ritual involving retrieving Dr. Finch's stool from the toilet to be examined for divine messages.  It's hard to believe that characters that would more likely arise from some imaginative writer's mind exist in real life.  Thankfully, Burroughs reminds us that at least a few can emerge enlightened and successful from such twisted childhoods.  <br />My only criticism is that I felt the book's narrative flow was interrupted at the end when the author began jumping from story to story without going into enough depth with each one.  Maybe he just ran out of interesting things to say.  However, that's really my only criticism.  The memoir is great.  You'll most probably look back on your childhood with a more forgiving eye after reading about Burroughs'.	2004-04-25
US	40022611	R3ED5RUVRSDM1K	0425191745	685045554	Sam: The Boy Behind The Mask	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Look on the inside please!	Sam Lightner was born with a horribly deforming vascular tumor on the left side of his face that was so disfiguring and otherworldly that an adult at a Halloween party complimented for his marvelous costume.  This is the kind of situation that Sam has lived with since he was an infant - the stares, the laughter, the shock, the misunderstandings.  If any story teaches the lesson of appreciating a person's heart rather than his appearance, it is this one.  <br />Sam was born with a large vascular tumor on the left side of his place that progressively compromised not only his appearance but also his basic vital functions including breathing and eating.  It took a few courageous physicians to treat his condition.  Drs. Marler and Mulleken at Boston Children's and Dr. Wehby in Portland are a few of the doctors that enabled Sam to have a fighting chance.  What makes this book such a compelling read is not only the heroics of Sam's physicians but the courage of Sam and his family.  Hallman delivers Sam's struggle to fit in with such an emotional impact that I had to quit reading the book in parts to take a breather.  Sam's family is portrayed as truly remarkable, and their handling of Sam's problems is a lesson to be learned by all.<br />Unfortunately, the book leaves us hanging (not the author's fault) because Sam's story is not finished.  He most likely will undergo further plastic surgery to shape his face, and he may undergo additional operations if his tumor returns.<br />Hopefully, this book can teach us a little about how to give respect to those like Sam who need support rather than the stares we often give them.	2004-04-16
US	40022611	R276H41GXE1PMP	1585420832	918109391	Man Made: A Memoir	Books	4	10	10	N	N	What's it like to be a man without testicles	A prolactinoma is a pituitary gland tumor that produces excessive amounts of the hormone prolactin.  This slow-growing tumor accurs in both men and women and is often not identified as the source of health problems until it has grown to a rather large size.  In a male, excessive prolactin has an emasculating and feminizing effect.  Testosterone levels decrease, the sex drive all but disappears, and erections are practically impossible to achieve.  To make matters worse, when prolactin reaches high enough levels in the blood, it can cause males to lactate.<br />At least 10 years of Ken Baker's life was spent in the confusing world created by his prolactinoma.  He was unable to understand why the rest of the guys around him were so sex-obsessed.  He could not figure out why 500 sit-ups a day didn't flatten his stomach even though his fellow hockey players were able to build up their bodies with less dedication.  He didn't understand why a young athletic male such as himself could rarely ever achieve an erection.  He didn't know why his headaches were getting worse, and he certainly had no clue why he was lactating.  But to designate Ken Baker's years living with a prolactinoma in his head as an emasculated hell would not do justice to his profound experience.  He has had the rare opportunity of observing the members of his own gender with the mindset of someone somewhere between male and female.  He saw us for what we are.  The obsession with sex, the never-cry-in-public manliness, the male chauvinism, and other characteristics we as males possess, Ken Baker could not relate to.  When finally diagnosed and treated (most importantly, when sex drive and erections returned), he was finally able to understand why so many men possessed the characteristics that he had disdained for so long.<br />This book several other storylines besides the chief one of the author's struggle to understand his \\"emasculation.\\"  He describes his relationship with his father who he loved verymuch despite the fact that he was often unsupportive, tempestuous, and even racist.  The descriptions of his relationships with his brothers invoke both laughter and sadness.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who accepts the fallacy that male attitudes, sex drive, and the such are solely under the control of the mind and that males just choose to be what they are.  Ken Baker is proof that a little hormone called testosterone has quite a bit more to do with it than you think.	2004-04-14
US	40022611	RXIFVLNW5QFQY	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Saudis: Our friends and our worst nightmares	Ex-CIA operative Robert Baer obviously doesn't have a very high opinion of the Saudis judging from his title, and he clearly explains why no one really should.  If what Baer says is true, we should be ashamed of our strong support of the ridiculously corrupt and autocratic regime that is the Saudi royal family.  Saudi Arabia is currently in a very precarious state.  A king incapacitated by a stroke sits on top of a heap of money and power hungry princes, corrupt advisors and associates, and what other detritus makes up the royal family.  To compound the problems generated by the profligacy and corruption of the royal family is the Islamist movement that would like nothing more than to see the royal family disappear from their holy land.  Ironically enough, in order to maintain a facade of religious devotion to take attention away from the royal family's favorite pasttimes (prostitutes, alcohol, big business, etc.), the Saudis have built thousands of religious schools (madrasahs) that teach their extremely conservative version of Islam called Wahhabism.  Unfortunately, the very students trained at these schools now view the Saudi royal family's existence as contrary to what they have been taught.  Just keep in mind that quite a number of al-Qaeda's operatives have been trained in Saudi-sponsored madrasahs.<br />Baer spent a great deal of time in the Middle East and the Central Asian republics getting to know about the budding Islamist movements in those regions.  Unfortunately, the more he became concerned about the threats presented by terrorists, many who are funded surrepitiously by the Saudis, the more he realized that his own government was reluctant to antagonize them.  The root of the problem is, of course, oil.  With a significant percentage of the world's oil reserves sitting underneath Saudi soil, the US has found itself repeatedly overlooking egregious errors and questionable moves made by the Saudis so as not to endanger the oil supply that we are dependent upon.  Why have the Khobar attacks not been investigated thoroughly? Why has the US still not been able to conduct a full investigation into the terrorist underworld in Saudi Arabia that produced 15 of the 19 9/11 hijackers? Why does the US continue to defend the Saudis despite their continued funding of terrorist organizations.  Oil, oil, oil!<br />Baer describes in detail the crimes perpetrated by the Saudis, but thankfully, he does not forget the other major player responsible for the present situation - the US.  Baer is rightfully dienchanted with US policy toward the Middle East and especially Saudi Arabia.  The tragedy of 9/11 is often viewed myopically as a terrible crime committed against innocent people.  It is indeed so if we are only considering the act itself.  However, it should not be overlooked as Baer reminds us throughout his book that the US's soft policy toward Saudi Arabia secondary to it's addiction to oil has allowed terrorist organizations to fluorish for the last several decades.  9/11 is only the largest expression of the terrorists' hatred for us, but it is certainly not the last.  If we continue our present policies of overlooking Saudi complicity in nurturing these organizations for the sake of the oil business then we should only expect further attacks on our soil and abroad.  <br />Baer does a fantastic job of taking us to places we've never been and that few are priveleged to see.  He helps us understand the role of CIA agents such as himself in gathering intelligence, and he vividly describes the frustration he faced when his own government chose to ignore the information that he gathered.  Most importantly, he exposes our government's attitudes toward Saudi Arabia which are partially responsible for the situation we find ourselves in today.  <br />I highly recommend this book for those who want to understand that the problem is not so much &quot;us vs. them&quot; as it is &quot;us and them.&quot;	2004-04-14
US	40022611	R14T7YA9KQL53Z	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Geeks' revenge	Who knows baseball better - the jocks or geeks? Well, it appears that you can't rid the front office of jocks, but you're screwed if you don't let the geeks in.  Lewis has written a book that ultimately proves that careful statistical analysis is often superior to conventional wisdom in finding out what makes good baseball players and teams.  <br />Moneyball tells the story of the A's general manager Billy Beane and his assistant Harvard grad Paul DePodesta and their quest to build an A's team armed with the smallest budget in baseball and a new approach to baseball stats.  The success that they achieve proves once again that people cannot accept the fact that science is superior to intuition and conventional wisdom in many circumstances.  Beane is a former major leaguer whose promising career never really took flight despite everyone's high expectations.  Fortunately, he found his niche in the front office of the Oakland A's, a team he transformed by deemphasizing the conventional wisdom that had falsely predicted the outcome of his own major league career.<br />Inspired by the sabermetrician Bill James whose Baseball Abstracts were appreciated by only a handful, Beane and DePodesta decided that the best way to spend the tiny A's budget was to draft or trade for players who were undervalued in the baseball market but whose stats told a different story.  For example, they realized that on base percentage was worth more than home runs or batting average.  They wanted players who could get on base whether by walk or hit.  After all, a home run is worth a lot more if previous batters make it on base.  Beane and DePodesta also realized among many other things that good fielding stats were overrated, errors were often meaningless, and luck plays a huge role in the outcome of a baseball game.<br />The beauty of this book is that it reminds us again and again that no matter how strong your subjective notions are, don't forget that statistical analysis is an objective enterprise largely devoid of emotional attachments and preconceived ideas.  Of course, choosing players based completely on refined statistical analysis while ignoring other nonquantifiable factors is foolish, but the A's are proof that this new approach is extremely effective.<br />Very highly recommended.	2004-03-11
US	40022611	R1YL4CDGLMSIS7	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Dedicated to our Deceased Friends	Mary Roach has tackled a rather strange but interesting topic in her book Stiff.  Have you ever wondered what happens to our deceased brethren who didn't go straight to the grave?  Well, Roach describes the innumerable ways the dead have contributed to our understanding of the human body, forensics, car crashes, airplane disasters, and even crucifixion.  You would think that a book on cadavers would maintain a somber tone, but Roach's writing is full of humor.  At first, her attitude seems irreverent, but discussing the trials and travails of the dead wouldn't garner any interest if the book's tone were morbid.<br />Most people who donate their bodies to science probably think that they are going to end up under the knife of a medical student in gross anatomy lab.  Although most cadavers are used for anatomic dissection, there are many that aren't.  Many cadavers have been involved in numerous car crash tests to help elucidate the nature of injuries suffered in a collision.  Some cadavers currently lie in a field decaying as scientists try to figure out the events that take place during decomposition.  A few cadavers have been turned into anatomical works of art in a traveling exhibit that has not yet gained entry into the US.  A cadaver or two have even been used unfortunately to prove and disprove details of Christ's crucifixion.<br />Roach really makes us appreciate what cadavers have done for us.  Without them, our scientific knowledge would certainly be impoverished.  As a medical student who went through gross anatomy 3 years ago, I appreciate the significance of the gifts given to me and my fellow students.  Several unselfish humans were willing to teach me anatomy through their gifts knowing that their bodies would be reduced to a collection of skinless limbs, dissected organs, a head, and sundry other pieces.  This book made me appreciate even more the gifts given to me and all the other scientists/researchers who have benefited from learning from cadavers.<br />Read this book, and you'll appreciate anatomical donors for the unselfish heroes that they are.	2004-03-10
US	40022611	R1RXGICQQOB4AU	0786712287	296860782	Hunting Humans: The Rise of the Modern Multiple Murderer	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Ted Bundy - Driven by Psychopathology or Class Struggle?	Leyton has written a classic study on the rise and motives of serial killers and mass murderers.  The new edition of this book originally published in the early 80's includes a discussion of the DC sniper attacks and case studies of various killers including Ted Bundy, the Boston Strangler Albert DeSalvo, David Berkowitz aka the Son of Sam, and Mark Essex.  Leyton lays out a very convincing argument about the motives behind the killings of multiple murderers.  He casts asides psychopathology as the primary reason for their crimes and instead contends that an inability to cope with social position and class consciousness drives these killers.<br />Leyton views multiple murderers from a sociological rather than a psychiatric standpoint.  The evidence underlying his arguments is solid.  His main conclusion is that multiple murderers seek to destroy members of a social class secure in its position in the social hierarchy that have excluded him (sometimes her) from their ranks.  Bundy, DeSalvo, and the rest belonged to the lower or lower middle classes and despite being superficially accepted by the social hierarchy above them, they were acutely aware of their humble origins and hypersensitive to rejection.  In fact, all of the murderers that Leyton discusses in detail spoke greatly at length about wanting to punish the people they felt had rejected them.  Though it is hard to imagine that multiple murderers are not psychotic, it appears that not only are they sane for the most part, they have a conscious or subconscious agenda to destroy the people they feel will never accept them.  <br />The case that best exemplifies Leyton's thesis, in my opinion, is the case of Mark Essex.  Essex was killed on the roof of a hotel in early January of 1975 after a killing spree that left over 10 people dead.  Essex was not a raving madman, but a black man who suffered the devastating consequences of racism during his years in the Navy.  He was insulated from the consequences of his skin color as a youth but soon realized that he was not considered an equal even by his country's own military.  His experiences left him deeply disillusioned, and several years after his discharge, he took revenge on the people that held him down.  In his mind, this included all white people.  No one who knew Essex portrayed him as a psychotic.  Rather, he was described as an intelligent and diligent worker who felt rejected by the social class above him and that he was not willing to accept his permanent social position beneath white people just because of his skin color.  <br />Each of Leyton's case studies are meticulously researched, and his sociological arguments are solid.  The last chapter of his book &quot;A Historical Overview&quot; ties all of his ideas together neatly.  He mentions several cases of multiple murderers dating back several hundred years, and all of them represent struggles between a member of a class whose members are facing uncertainty or alienation against a class that is secure in its social standing.  This chapter really represents what is best about this book.  Leyton's convincing arguments don't just explain what drives people to kill so many of their fellow human beings in modern times but they also provide a framework to discuss multiple murderers from the past.<br />For the people that are comforted by the idea that multiple murderers are psychotic maniacs who have an unrestrained lust for killing people, this book will change your mind.	2004-02-29
US	40022611	R1AT1N4VQ329P9	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Scathing Criticism of Bush and Buddies	Suskind has written a page-turner about the current president's administration based primarily on interviews with and documents given by former Secretary of the Treasury Paul O'Neill.  The book is a welcome analysis of the inner workings of the present administration and is almost a condemnation of the way Bush and his inner circle, primarily Cheney and Rove, operate.  O'Neill was the head of the treasury for two years under Bush until he was fired in 2002 mostly as a consequence of his straight talk which did not often jibe with the administration's agenda.  As a former advisor to presidents Nixon and Ford, former CEO of Alcoa, and significantly, a longtime friend of Alan Greenspan, O'Neill has developed a keen economic sensibility and brought his talents to the Bush administration.  Unfortunately, intellectual ability and straight talk does not necessarily  translate into political success.  From the first days of the administration to his resignation, O'Neill progressively ostracized himself from the president and his advisors by his often unrestrained and unwelcome straight talk.  Thanks to his unwillingness to conform to the administration's agenda, he was forced out, and as a result, we now have this important book detailing the adminstration's inadequacies.  <br />This book confirms many of our perceptions of the current administration.  Suskind portrays Bush as a man who appears to lack an understanding of complex economic and political issues relying instead on his closest advisors to provide analysis.  Historically, the strength of a president often depends on his ability to comprehend many complex issues presented to him by his advisors and render his own analysis upon them.  It appears that Bush often lets others do the analysis for him, and he even fails to peruse important memos and documents given to him.  Rove and especially Cheney come off looking like the ultimate manipulators who have a profound influence on the president.  Powell is portrayed asa very reasonable advisor who is obviously uncomfortable with the ideological wall surrounding the president.  Greenspan, who O'Neill has known for decades, is depicted as pragmatic, cautious, and often indecipherable.<br />This book obviously must lie in the realm between absolute falsehood and absolute truth. Of course, a book that relies primarily on one source who is certainly a bit disgruntled about his forced resignation will be biased.  However, Suskind's book has several things in its favor that places it closer to truth than to fiction.  Memos do not lie, and Suskind certainly had access to O'Neill's huge files of them.  The author relied on O'Neill as his primary source, and the former Secratary of the Treasury has long been viewed as a man of unimpeachable character.  And, of course, the administration's own actions and words speak for themselves.<br />I highly recommend this book.  It gives readers insight into an administration whose leader often appears overly ideological, uninformed, and more like head of a treehouse club packed with best buddies than president of the US.	2004-02-18
US	40022611	R2E35LMT5AOAP3	0618197362	406210140	The Land of Naked People: Encounters with Stone Age Islanders	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Book About an Endangered People	Discussions of endangered peoples often invokes stories about Amazonian natives, Kalahari Bushmen, and Australian aborigines to name a few.  The people of the Andaman and Nicobar islands are seldom mentioned however.  Mukerjee does a great service to the indigenous people of these islands by exposing the destruction wrought upon them by modern intrusions.  <br />The Andamanese and Nicobarese have lived in isolation from the modern world in the Bay of Bengal for thousands of years.  They were portrayed in travelogues, including Marco Polo's, as ferocious, cannabilistic, and uncivilized to the highest degree.  These impressions were often based not upon direct interaction but rather on distant observation of a unabashedly naked people with a hunter-gatherer culture.  When actual interaction did occur primarily by the British, the Andamanese and Nicobarese were often ferociously defensive as can be expected when confronted by an imperialist power intent on conquering and also gathering human specimens to study and display on the mainland.  Even in the face of these dangers, they attempted to maintain some peaceable interaction with their conquerors and displayed the great attributes of their cultures.<br />Mukerjee spent some time in the islands in an attempt to interact with the Great Andamanese, Onge, Jarawa, Nicobarese, and Sentinelese and in the process, has exposed the Indian government's wrongheaded and destructive policies toward these indigenous peoples.  It is apparent that most Indian bureacrats in the islands are there to live the easy life and make a quick buck, and the few who desire to make change often are faced with insurmountable obstacles in their attempt to improve policy toward the natives.  Mukerjee describes her subjects in affectionate detail, and her love for them and her sorrow for their plight are evident throughout the book.  Her feelings for them culminates as she approaches the Sentinel Islands, home to possibly the most undisturbed cultureon earth.  As her boat nears the islands, she begins to regret her intrusion and thinks to herself &quot;Please please please, let us not destroy this last haven.&quot;<br />Unfortunately, disease and war has wiped out most of the islands' population.  Construction and deforestation is wiping out native habitats.  The islanders are impotent to change the situation, and the Indian government will ultimately be responsible for protecting these vulnerable and beautiful people.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone concerned with the disappearance of a people who have not been able to fight back and are quickly disappearing from our earth.	2004-02-15
US	40022611	R207FEWA2IV5OX	0743251334	491103802	Seeds of Terror: An Eyewitness Account of Al-Qaeda's Newest Center of Operations in Southeast Asia	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The present situation is scarier than you think	Maria Ressa is a long-time CNN correspondent in Southeast Asia which is home to an underappreciated terrorist network.  She has reported on numerous terrorist groups in the region, and in this book, she reveals the reasons for the rise to prominence of such groups as the Abu Sayyaf in the Philippines and the Indonesian-based Jemaah Islamiyah.  Most people are only aware of bin Laden's al-Qaeda network, but Ressa's book clearly shows that the extremist network in the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore is just as dangerous.<br />Ressa enumerates the reason for the reasons for the rise of Islamic extremism in Southeast Asia: establishment of religious schools that double as recruiting centers for terrorism, widespread police and military corruption, lack of strong intelligence, and the governments' unwillingness to crack down on terrorist groups for fear of being labelled anti-Islamic.  9/11 may have been the most significant terrorist attack in recent history, but the Bali blasts, the multiple simultaneous bombings in Singapore a few years back, and the terrorist-backed uprisings in places such as Ambon, Indonesia signify a possibly greater threat arising in Southeast Asia.<br />Ressa clearly outlines the connections between terrorist groups in Southeast Asia with al-Qaeda.  An Indonesian, Hambali, sits on al-Qaeda's governing council.  Funds channeled from al-Qaeda helped fund both the bombings in Bali and Singapore.  Many terrorists in the region trained under and met Osama bin Laden during the &quot;jihad&quot; in Afghanistan, and many are products of al-Qaeda's many training camps.<br />The importance of this book is that it awakens us to the dangers that are arising in Southeast Asia. Ressa does a fantastic job on reporting on these pressing issues because she has access to many politicians, bureaucrats, and other leaders that few get to speak to, and she even presents evidence never before published.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in understanding the dangers that have not directly affected the US yet but are sure to hurt us in the future if not stopped now.	2004-02-12
US	40022611	R3J2ORWI0PB6N7	0345466632	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Scary as hell	This book should scare the hell out of you. If everything had gone perfectly after the official eradication of smallpox in 1979, the last two stashes of the virus at the CDC and in Russia would have been destroyed long ago.  However, scientific curiosity, threats of bioterrorism, and most importantly, the irresponsibility of the Russian political and scientific establishments have prevented the destruction of the deadly virus.<br />Preston recounts the courageous and well-organized international smallpox eradication effort of the 60's and 70's in the first part of the book and introduces us to the characters who transformed the dream of ridding the planet of the horrible disease into a reality.  The meat of the book, however, deals with one of the most pressing issues of our time, bioterrorism.  Although the smallpox virus was to be kept only at the CDC and in a Russian institute after eradication, ample evidence exists that the Russians continued experimenting with the virus as a potential weapon and distributed it to several different research centers.  If that's not scary enough, imagine the possibility of the virus getting into the wrong hands after the post-Communist degeneration of the Russian political and scientific establishments.  Preston suggests that the virus quite possibly exists outside of the CDC and Russia bioterrorist research facilities, and it is potentially being reengineered into an even deadlier form.  Any reasonably intelligent scientist with a small budget could easily experiment with the virus using techniques published in manuals available to everyone.<br />The threat of bioterrorism is very real as the anthrax attacks of 2001 have shown us.  Not only was the anthrax easily spread through the mail, but it was of professional grade.  Preston describes the potential destruction the smallpox virus could wreak on all of us if bioterrorists figured out a way to deliver it surrepitiously. Smallpox is far deadlier than anthrax and very contagious.<br />This book is similar to Hot Zone in style in that Preston attempts to humanize all his characters although at times, he can get a bit melodramatic.  That being my only criticism, this book deserves to be read as a solemn reminder of the danger that still lurks both within and outside our borders.	2004-02-01
US	40022611	R3CRDJMUKTF1LL	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious!	I've read this book twice, and it was even funnier the second time. Sedaris has had very interesting and amusing life experiences, and he's more than willing to share these with us.  As a chain-smoking, lisping homosexual in a country that has banned smoking for the most part and often detests gay men with \\"effeminate\\" characteristics, Sedaris is unabashed and certainly not regretful.  <br />He shares his experiences of his quirky family that includes his sister Amy Sedaris, former star of \\"Strangers with Candy\\" and his rotten-fruit-eating father. He recounts his struggles with a speech therapist who attempts to correct his lisping (the apparently obvious mark of homosexuality) and his brilliant tactics to avoid its correction.  Many of his stories are taken from his time in France where he lived with his boyfriend Hugh.  These stories successfully convey both the difficulties and joys of living the expatriate life - appreciating a new culture, learning a new language, and viewing American tourists in a new and often all too revealing light.<br />The best of his stories, in my opinion, unleashes onto us his younger brother, a foul-mouthed, gangster rap fan who is a stark contrast to his father but is his most dependable support.  This particular story really demonstrates what Sedaris is capable of.  It's incredibly funny but so poignant at the same time.<br />This book will make you laugh at loud, and I hope you get a chance to read it.  Make sure you check out \\"Naked\\" also for more of Sedaris' brilliance.	2004-01-30
US	40022611	R1NTQN62CLE762	0060557869	422504949	The Fate of Zionism: A Secular Future for Israel & Palestine	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good account of the most pressing problem in the Middle East	It's hard to believe that a self-proclaimed Zionist could write a balanced book on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but Hertzberg somewhat succeeds. Hertzberg provides a brief history of both his beliefs and solutions regarding the conflict, and describes the problems and virtues of both the Jewish and Palestinian sides.  But, as you might expect, there are problems with his account.<br />1) He describes himself as a moderate Zionist who supports the two-state solution, and he elaborates in his book the various problems that have prevented resolution to the preeminent conflict in the Middle East.  Herzberg distances himself from the hard-line, messianic Jews who seek to rule over all of Palestine, but at the same time, he fails to properly address the encroachment of settlements in the West Bank that are often supported and created by the hardliners.  In his discussion of the proposed security fence between Israel and the West Bank (the fence had not started construction during the writing of the book), he does not give an opinion regarding what should be done about the settlements that were illegally established in the Palestinian territory.<br />2) One of Hertzberg's main topics of discussion revolves around Palestinian identity and nationalism.  Did the Palestinians regard themselves as such or just as Arabs before the Zionist movement, or did they become Palestinians as a reaction to the Zionist movement? Hertzberg spends a number of pages concerning this issue, and he seems to come to the latter conclusion thereby implicitly weakening the Palestinians reasons for both statehood and return to present-day Israel.<br />3) Although he is very critical of terror tactics employed by various Palestinian terrorist groups, he fails to be critical enough of Israeli reprisals and consequent deaths of many innocent Palestinians.<br />4) He does not appropriately criticize either Yasir Arafat or Ariel Sharon for their various mistakes and crimes in perpetuating the conflict.<br />Those are just some of the problems I have with Hertzberg's book, but there are also several positives.  He correctly identifies the US as the major player in mediating the conflict and supports American involvement in realizing the two-state solution.  He casts aside religious reasons for the existence of Israel and relies instead on secular and humanitarian reasons -  he argues that Jews needed to escape persecution from pogroms and the pre- and post-Holocaust atrocities to establish a homeland where they could live as a &quot;normal&quot; nation rather than argue that Jews have a divine right to inhabit their ancestral homeland.<br />There are, of course, many other discussion points, good and bad, for this book.  Finding a well-balanced account of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is difficult, but this book is pretty well-balanced for a self-proclaimed Zionist who is obviously biased.	2004-01-28
US	40022611	R2ZJ9LXTR50TNO	0691024170	348587138	QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Easily understood intro to QED	Richard Feynman, along with Schwinger and Tomonaga, won Nobel prizes in the 1960's for their development of quantum electrodynamics (QED).  In this book, Feynman attempts to bring this esoteric field down to the layman's level and succeeds as usual.  The chapters in the book are taken from lectures he presented to a largely nonscientific audience, but the material is not dumbed down.  Of course, many of the details are left out since only years of study can provide a true understanding of the theory, but Feynman presents his lectures in such a way that only a reasonable amount of thought is needed to appreciate the basics of QED.<br />\\"The Strange Theory of Light and Matter\\" is an entirely appropriate subtitle to a book that attempts to explain the theory behind phenomena that escape our everyday experience and intuition.  QED is arguably the most successful scientific theory in existence.  Its predictions have correlated extraordinarily well with experiment although \\"prediction\\" in the QED sense is not what we are generally used to. The quantum world is inherently probabilistic.  There are certain things we just cannot \\"know.\\" We cannot predict which photons will reflect of a glass surface, but with QED, we can at least accurately calculate the percentage of photons that do reflect.  That's just one of the results of QED that Feynman attempts to explain, and he does so in a very straightforward fashion.<br />Feynman never insults the intelligence of his audience by pretending that the basics of QED are beyond its grasp, but instead repeatedly insists that no one really understands QED, but that should not prevent anyone from appreciating some of its results.  With this attitude, Feynman explains the basics of partial reflection, particle interactions, and the discoveries of new particles, and he does all this through numerous figures and analogies rather than mathematical equations.<br />Richard Feynman was not your ordinary physicist.  He was a physicist's physicist and a great teacher (read James Gleick's bio of Feynman called Genius).  His teaching abilities are in full display in this book as he is able to bring an incredibly strange theory down to the average reader's level.  I highly recommend this book.  It will tax your thinking abilities but will never insult them.	2004-01-17
US	40022611	R3D5DMNUBWN3V6	0393052311	896786254	A Brief History of the Human Race	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting but inadequate	&quot;No one can know all there is to be known about it, let alone hope to convey even the gist of it in one small volume&quot; - the author in his preface<br />&quot;The result is that this book is both deliberately selective and involuntarily patchy.&quot; - also from preface<br />The first quote relates the author's ideas on writing about human history, and the second exemplifies his approach to this book.  These two quotes convey exactly what you can expect from this book.  It is obviously not a comprehensive history of the human race nor does it intend to be, but even as an organized outline of our history, it falls short.  It is patchy, and the author often presents his ideas and arguments in rather haphazard sequences.<br />The main part of Cook's history is separated into chapters based on geographical origins (or absences) of civilization. He takes us from Australia to the Americas then to Africa and so forth, and in the process, he uses familiar discussions of climate and geography to relate the rise of civilization predominantly with farming.  The last part of the book is concerned with the interaction of civilizations and how various cultures were affected by the Islamic world, European expansion, etc.  All in all, Cook provides very interesting information, and his arguments are fairly good.<br />However, many of the chapters include interesting discussions of traditions or phenomena that are/were unique to certain civilizations, but the author fails to satisfactorily integrate these with his other discussions.  He does not adequately compare and contrast cultural traditions but rather describes them and moves on.  Of course, the author may not have able to do that without substantially lengthening the book, but a book titled &quot;A Brief History of the Human Race&quot; should be able to provide a more cohesive picture than the disorganized one that it does.<br />Another problem I had with this book was that it was sorely lacking in maps and figures.There are a few to be sure, but the author apparently assumes that the average reader has a very good knowledge of geographical and geological history.  For example, the author repeatedly refers to Pangaea, Gondwanaland, and Eurasia but never provides a map of the world before the continents took their present shape.<br />This book is a pretty quick and informative read, but if you're looking for a more comprehensive and organized work, look elsewhere.	2004-01-05
US	40022611	R3V19X8W6P92YV	0836267451	986213631	Journey to Cubeville (A Dilbert Book, No. 12)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely hilarious!	It's amazing how Scott Adams is able to produce hundreds of hilarious Dilbert strips that revolve around just a few themes -bosses are stupid, engineers are geeks, and the whole purpose of management, marketing, and the like are to squash productivity.  This book is proof that Adams is a genius because not a single strip fails to produce at least a chuckle.  Get this book and laugh your a** off.	2003-12-20
US	40022611	R8802WTYSAORE	0738206679	117060972	Linked: The New Science of Networks	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Good book about networks, but not as good as Nexus	Barabasi's Linked is a pretty good intro to the science of networks.  It covers much the same ground as Buchanan's Nexus including discussions about random v. nonrandom networks, six degrees of separation related stuff, the AIDS epidemic, etc. Linked also covers a several more topics in greater detail than does Nexus including viruses and fads, and Barabasi presents very good discussions of search engines and the good-old-boy network of board members.  Another appealing aspect of the book is that the author and his co-workers were involved in a number of the developments in the science of networks, so we can be sure that the author's explanations are grounded in his own experience.<br />If you want to read one book about networks and you're deciding between Nexus and Linked, I would recommend Nexus, however.  Nexus' discussions are deeper, and its presentation and writing are better.	2003-12-20
US	40022611	R2Y8DF8NL0RQ6	0393041530	177222405	Nexus: Small Worlds and the Groundbreaking Science of Networks	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Networks of sex partners and the Net-Are they really related	The surprising answer is yes. I picked this book up after reading Steven Strogatz's Sync which mentions a great deal about the science of networks.  Buchanan explains how networks exist everywhere - the net, the web, the power grid, our circle of friends, our sex partners - and that they are in fact very similar to one another.<br />The phrase \\"six degrees of separation\\" comes from the fact that two randomly chosen people, A and B, will on average be connected by six social links.  A knows C who knows D who knows E who knows F who knows G who finally knows B.  Considering the world has over 6 billion people, an average separation of 6 seems unbelievable small, but the explanation of this incredible phenomenon lies in the makeup of our social network.  Our close friends know each other but our cluster of friends has weak ties to other clusters through acquaintances, people we really don't know that well - that's why when one is looking for a job, it's better to tell an acquaintance rather than a friend so that our inquiry can jump to other clusters.  Our social network is essentially highly clustered but enough links exist between these clusters to allow us to jump from ourselves to any other person through just an average of six links.  Buchanan shows us how this kind of network exists everywhere as mentioned above although he distinguishes between egalitarian networks where clusters are roughly the same size and aristocratic networks such as the WWW where gigantic hubs like Amazon.com exist that link to millions of websites. <br />One of the most interesting chapters in the book deals with sexual networks.  It turns out that in the network of sex partners, certain people have a great many more links than the average person in the network.  Buchanan explains how the structure of the sexual network actually accounts for the rapid spread of HIV.  The virus spread quickly because the hubs in the network spread it to their numerous partners.  In fact, it turns out thata significant percentage of the inital HIV cases had a sexual relationship with one particular flight attendant.<br />As I wrote in my review for Strogatz's Sync, we are entering an era of science where disparate fields of study are being linked because many phenomena that we used to regard as unrelated now appear to have very similar underlying bases.  It is exciting to read books like Nexus because it illustrates this point. You should definitely read this book if your are interested in the science of networks and want to know how so many different phenomena are being explained by the same underlying principles.	2003-12-09
US	40022611	R2E08WWN52MHKX	0786868449	623897546	Sync: The Emerging Science of Spontaneous Order	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Outstanding book on a fascinating new science	Strogatz's Sync deals with one of the most fascinating new fields of science (not to be confused with synchronicity!).  Why do certain species of fireflies synchronize their flashes? How do we maintain our sleep/wake cycles? Strogatz answers these questions and others that have puzzled scientists for decades. He gathers together results from his own work and that of other physicists, biologists, and sociologists to explain the factors that underly the disparate phenomena that exhibit synchronization.  Strogatz's exposition introduces the reader to other hot new fields of science including complexity theory and network theory in order to explain the basis of synchronization, and this is partially the reason why this book is so exciting to read (don't be scared by all this theory talk - you don't have to know much math to understand this book). The excitement I felt from reading the book stemmed from the realization that we are in a new era of science where knowledge is being furthered by integrating various fields of study.  The study of sync has enabled us to link together sociology, ecology, neuroscience, and other previously believed to be unrelated fields.  Strogatz makes this clear, for example, when illustrating that the sociologists' studies of the &quot;six degrees of separation&quot; phenomenon is closely related to the simultaneous firing of the heart's pacemaker cells.  Most importantly, he is able to convey the basics of a complex science to the lay reader. Strogatz also gets props for giving credit to all the scientists that contributed to this new field of science including the ones that have influenced him and the ones that he taught.<br />If you are into complexity theory, network theory, or just want to understand the scientific basis for phenomena that often were deemed too complex or unworthy to study, then you should definitely read Sync.  It will help you to understand that things we often consider to be completely different are in fact very muchalike.	2003-12-09
US	40022611	R14RGH1LE3A01I	0393058522	269998694	The Roaring Nineties: A New History of the World's Most Prosperous Decade	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Fascinating but difficult for the novice	Before Stiglitz won his Nobel Prize, he was on the Council of Economic Advisers during the Clinton administration.  The council had a great deal to do with determining Clinton's economic policy, and Stiglitz was in prime position to direct the thinking behind the decisions made during the former president's tenure.  As such, he describes the reasons behind Clinton's economic policy decisions, getting rid of the deficit was chief among them, and also does his share of criticizing policy decisions made by Reagan, Bush I, and Bush II. Considering Stiglitz was one of the president's closest advisers, you may suspect that the book is heavily biased toward<BR>Clinton and against Republicans, but he in fact does his share of criticizing many of the decisions made by the Clinton administration.  <br />The prime focus of this book, however, is the explanation of the factors that led to the tech bubble expansion and bursting of the 90's.  Stiglitz received his Nobel for his research on asymmetric information in economics.  He uses this concept to explain how the bubble was a result of the average shareholder having less information than the insiders.  The average shareholder was unaware of shady accounting practices, the overzealous use of stock options to compensate CEOs, and even phantom corporations created to avoid paying taxes.  These and a host of other factors resulted in the overvaluation of company profits and consequently stock prices.  Of course, we know how the story ended, and Stiglitz does a good job in describing how the bubble exploded.<br />I had a difficult time understanding many parts of this book because my background in economics is weak, so be warned that you'll be expected to understand some basic macroeconomic principles before you can really grasp the author's arguments.	2003-12-08
US	40022611	R227BA4NSP8BBM	0674011864	379729358	Profiles, Probabilities, and Stereotypes	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very good introduction to the how's and why's of profiling	This book is an excellent introduction to the concept and application of profiling based on generalizations.  The phrase that the author uses repeatedly throughout the book is &quot;nonspurious nonuniversal generalization.&quot;  Nonspurious = statistically significant, nonuniveral = not applying to everyone in a group, generalization = self-explanatory.  The author uses dog attacks to illustrate this concept.  Take the assertion, &quot;Pitbulls are dangerous.&quot;  Although a small percentage of pitbulls are responsible for attacks on humans (nonuniversal), this percentage is statistically much greater (nonspurious) than for other dogs.  Knowing this factual information, are we justified in labeling pitbulls &quot;dangerous.&quot;  These are the kinds of issues that the author discusses in his book.  The topics he covers range from the fairness of forced retirement of pilots at age sixty, the debate over a judge's power over sentencing, and of course, racial profiling.  The author does an outstanding job for the most part in discussing these issues and proving his point, but I thought he did not defend his views on racial profiling with respect to airport security very well. I don't think he accurately assessed the potential cost to society in arguing against the inclusion of &quot;Middleeasterness&quot; as part of a larger profile. In other words, are we willing to forgo including &quot;Middleeasterness&quot; as part of a larger profile thereby increasing the potential of not identifying a terrorist? The author's discussion of this point is lengthy, but in summary, he opposes this particular kind of profiling in airports, but I don't think his argument was completely justified (and this is coming from me who was stopped repeatedly after 9/11 because of my Middle Eastern appearance).  All in all, this is a great book, and it will certainly get you thinking about some of the most important issues facing the US today.	2003-12-08
US	40022611	R2QLSEXYW5IN3V	0156010801	357381714	Probability 1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Probability 1: Maybe	The reason why I gave this book a 4-star rating as opposed to the previous reviews is that the book was genuinely thought-provoking.  Although the author dedicates a number of pages discussing issues and ideas peripheral to the central theme, he does present some thought-provoking material.  Whether his final argument is plausible or not, I cannot judge.  I tried to find information regarding the inspection paradox which underlies his basic argument, but I found that a deeper understanding of probability and higher math is probably required to comprehend it.  Thus, I can't actually cast aside his argument as previous reviewers have.  If it weren't for the fact that this book made me actually think, it would merit a much lower rating.  The book's deficiencies include: inadequate explanation of the Drake equation and modern ideas about each factor in the formula, insufficient discussion of randomness and pseudorandomness, failure to establish the relevance of fractals to his discussion, lame explanation of the inspection paradox, etc.  In my opinion, the worst error was his estimation of 1/9 as the probability of life occurring on an extrasolar planet.  Although, in his calculation of the probability of life in the universe would not be affected greatly even by a significant change in this number, I'm wondering how a statistician can use a probability based on a sample size of 9.  <br />In summary, I recommend this book if you're looking for a a quick read that will make you think, but if you're looking for depth and accuracy, look elsewhere.	2003-09-23
US	40022611	R2SDQJ7IL1OL3M	0141001895	134194364	The Soul of a Chef: The Journey Toward Perfection	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great book about dedication to one's profession	Ruhlman divides his work into 3 parts.  The first part chronicles the intense Certified Master Chef exam.  The second and third parts deal with the lives and cooking of Michael Symon of Lola in Cleveland and Thomas Keller of the French Laundry in Yountville, CA.  The book's title pretty much says it all.  The chefs portrayed in this book strive for nothing less than perfection, and Symon and Keller have apparently reached that level with some of their creations.  Ruhlman's description of the CMC exam reveals what an intense and harrowing experience this test of cooking skill is.  He follows seven candidates through ten days of the examination which everyone fails but one.  He then proceeds to describe the work of Symon and Keller.  Both chefs' stories are inspirational in that they prove that success has as much to do with dedication and diligence as innate talent.  I recommend this book to anyone who wants to understand not only what it takes to be a great chef but what it takes to be successful in any profession.  The only difficulty I had with this book was that I did not understand many of the cooking and food terms the author used.  A glossary would have been nice.  Anyway, a great read!	2003-09-22
US	40022611	R31XF0WV0OP6FF	0151002967	785572493	A Flame of Pure Fire: Jack Dempsey and the Roaring '20s	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pretty good book on early 20th century boxing	I didn't know much about Jack Dempsey before reading this book, but I definitely learned a lot about him from this bio.  Kahn portrays him as the greatest heavyweight champ ever who was not only blessed with great boxing skills but also great strength of character - imagine the guts it took to reject Al Capone's offer to fix a fight for him.  The book justifiably concentrates mainly on Dempsey's fighting career which included bouts with Willard, Carpentier, Firpo, and Tunney rather than spending much time discussing his pre and post boxing life.  This bio does a fine job discussing not only Dempsey but also the characters that surrounded him including his difficult first wife and the boxing promoters Rickard and Kearns.  The only problem I have with this book is that because the author knew his subject personally and obviously admired him a great deal, Dempsey is portrayed as a man who was larger than life and who had very few flaws.  Though this characterization of Dempsey may be true, the author never hesitates to be openly affectionate toward him.  Anyway, this a pretty good book and deserves a read.	2003-09-20
US	40022611	RZ12LDR1GBKNQ	0805068031	3918433	Day of Infamy, 60th Anniversary: The Classic Account of the Bombing of Pearl Harbor	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Humanized account of the Pearl Harbor attack	Lord's Day of Infamy recounts the infamous events of December 7th, 1941.  Rather than assuming a conventional descriptive viewpoint, the author humanizes his story by chronicling the day's events using the names of the men and women involved.  &quot;Men on the Oklahoma began firing back&quot; is scrapped in favor of &quot;PFC ____ and _____ on the Oklahoma began firing back.&quot;  Using this format, Lord is able to convey a greater sense of realism when recalling the actions of hundreds of individuals involved in day's events.  I was also pleasantly surprised at the book's descriptions of the Japanese men involved in the attack.  He did not demonize them but presented them fairly as participants in a well-planned although ultimately foolish attack.  The only drawback to reading this book, in my opinion, is that the author's presentation of numerous individuals' actions obscured the big picture.  Thankfully, an epilogue summarizes the attack in a few pages.  I recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a lively account of the attack on Pearl Harbor.	2003-09-20
US	40022611	R2N78L8GKIVZYM	0521398282	92787433	Seven Clues to the Origin of Life: A Scientific Detective Story (Canto)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	True? False? Who knows? But definitely a great read!	First, I have to preface my review by saying that I haven't yet read other books about the origin of life, so I have nothing to compare this book to...anyway<br />This short book is absolutely fascinating.  The thrust of the author's argument is this:<br />Life as we know it is too complex to have originated in its present form.  Nucleic acids and proteins and most organic molecules necessary for life are too complex to have originated in the primitive atmosphere even if the conditions were favorable.  We need to find something that is capable of growing, replicating (not perfectly), and providing a substrate for the formation of molecules necessary for life as we know it today.  What could possibly do that?  Ah yes, crystals of clay!  Clay is abundant.  It grows and replicates but not perfectly thus allowing for irregularities to accumulate.  These crystals with irregularities could then provide a surface that brought molecules together in close proximity so that they could interact and produce the organic molecules needed for life.  Eventually, the secondary organisms that resulted from this process achieved a certain complexity that gave rise to life as we know it.<br />Interesting argument.  Is it true? Is it even plausible? I actually don't know the answer to either question, and I have a feeling that there are no definite answers.<br />I found this book thought-provoking, and it presented an interesting solution to the mystery of the origin of life.	2003-08-03
