US	40155804	R3KQR2B6NDSIRX	0393058492	475143945	Sowing the Wind: The Seeds of Conflict in the Middle East	Books	2	8	15	N	N	A Superficial British Imperial History	If this was a film, the British are the main characters, the French, Jews and Americans are the supporting cast, and, apart from a few kings and such, the Arabs are the uncredited extras. This is not a history of the Middle East, it is a history of British imperialism there, and a superficial one at that. The perspective is all British: British travellers, British officials, British military, Foreign Office and Prime Minister. When he wants a first hand description, the author turns to famous people, and/or other writers, who happen to have visited the area at the time and can provide a colourful account. There is no depth to those accounts, nor does the author try to provide it himself. All decisions emanate from British sources, with the leaders of the Middle East, and even to an extent the Zionists, only appearing as they are involved in carrying out or defying those British decisions. The people of the Middle East show up only when they are fighting the Turks, rioting, or shooting at or being shot at by the British, and occasionally the French or the Jews. The issue of Zionist terrorism is one the author puts off writing about for as long as he possibly can, and then does his best to downplay it. Surprisingly, the account of the first Arab-Israeli War is reasonably balanced and does not portray the Arabs as an overwhelming force. It is also the only time in the book when it shows the Middle Eastern leaders dealing with each other. After that, the book returns to accounts of British activity, now with American involvement. The author varies between pointing out the dubious nature of their political deals and intelligence operations, and using the equally dubious justification that politics has always been run that way.<br /><br />I was led to believe that this book was far more than it is. It is NOT a general history of the Middle East for the first half of the Twentieth Century. It is a history of British imperialism during that time, and a very superficial one. In my opinion, this book fails to achieve its own stated goal, to explain the origins of the conflicts in the Middle East, at any useful level. As far as the author seems concerned, everything Middle Eastern leaders do is simply revenge for the past actions of the West. That domestic considerations could affect those leaders, as they do Western ones, is ignored. With that said, I would not totally recommend against this book. To someone who basically knows nothing about the Middle East, wants a superficial overview of the past century there, and is more concerned with the actions of the British and American governments than anyone local, this book might be a decent introduction. Other than that, I would avoid it.e. In my opinion, this book fails to achieve its own stated goal, to explain the origins of the conflicts in the Middle East, at any useful level. As far as the author seems concerned, everything Middle Eastern leaders do is simply revenge for the past actions of the West. That domestic considerations could affect those leaders, as they do Western ones, is ignored. With that said, I would not totally recommend against this book. To someone who basically knows nothing about the Middle East, wants a superficial overview of the past century there, and is more concerned with the actions of the British and American governments than anyone local, this book might be a decent introduction. Other than that, I would avoid it.	2005-10-02
US	40155804	R1OR9YDNAU28UI	1416505202	599086759	Tales From the Captain's Table (Star Trek)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A very mixed collection	I must begin this by saying that, based on the Captain's Table books, I had very high expectations for this anthology. They were not met. Some of the stories I quite enjoyed, but several I did not, and the bar as a setting was underused. The first story, Riker's, was light-hearted, entertaining, and rather preposterous. I thought it was setting the tone for the anthology. The next few stories showed me that the theme was about family, their betrayal and abandonment, and that this story was a cheerful bookend to an often sombre collection. After Riker came Picard, with a story set between Stargazer and Enterprise. The story is about Picard's love of starship command being restored after losing his first ship, and there is no subtlety to it. It's more like a story guide than a real tale. After that comes Shelby's story. I only read New Frontier stories in anthologies, and they never fail to justify not reading the novels. Most of this story is actually a fairly rousing adventure tale, with a sardonic humour I like. The conclusion portrays Starfleet as turned into a huge collection of conspiracy freaks by the Dominion War. I don't like the \\"everybody on both sides of a war is an idiot\\" attitude and I really don't like the way it is presented. After Shelby comes Klag. It's not really a story at all, just a lonely man feeling miserable about his family problems and sharing the misery with a bar full of strangers. After reading this story, I took a break for dinner, and also to get out a previous Trek anthology and read a story that was entertaining and cheerful, because I felt that was the only way I could get through to the end of Tales.<br /><br />Fortunately, the collection picked up at that point. Kira's story was from the Occupation, a tale of espionage and double agents. It is well written, but the emotional level is a bit shallow. The real impact for me was the incredible difference between the physical state of Kira here and after the Occupation. It is a well chosen point of shock for the reader. I did not bother to read Archer's story, as NX-01 stories in any form have no interest for me. That might have been a mistake, as the collection could have done with a big humour infusion, and I suspect that story tried to provide it. Demora Sulu's story is actually three stories, the bar story, the story told in the bar, and the third story, told in the story told in the bar. It needed to be well written to be good, and it is. The bar story and the third story were good in general. However, the bar story relates how Demora modified the second story, about caring for her dying grandmother, to achieve her goal in coming to the bar. The story reflects that attitude, that is, it feels like she was manipulating her grandmother to get the result she wanted from providing the care, and any benefit to her grandmother was good but unimportant. Demora in general comes across as coldly manipulative, and no matter how good the writing, she is just not a pleasant character to read about. Which makes for quite a contrast to Chakotay's story, involving her and showing how he managed to get into Starfleet Academy. It is also light hearted and upbeat, making a welcome if shallow change from the preceding stories. The final story, David Gold's, finalises that trend, and is more like Riker's story than any of the others. It actually involves the bar patrons in the telling of the story, which is a feature I really liked about the Captain's Table books and was wasted by most of the stories in this collection. His and Riker's stories I found to be the most enjoyable of the book.<br /><br />I am not sure I can recommend for or against this. Several of the stories are reasonably entertaining, but I found several very depressing, and the overall quality of the writing is not particularly high. The most I can say is that this anthology is below the standard of previous Trek anthologies I have read, and considerably below the entertainment level of the Captain's Table books.Captain's Table books.	2005-09-28
US	40155804	R3V8NWHKCIJUD5	0732269768	689275922	Claiming a Continent: A New History of Australia	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An excellent overview of Australian history	[This review is based on the original 1996 edition.] This is an excellent overview of Australian history. It covers the entire period from settlement to the modern day (which day depending on the edition you have). Day presents Australian culture as a colonial one, dispossessing a native population, dependent militarily and morally on a mother country, and believing its claim to proprietorship of the land, to use his term, is under constant scrutiny by other contenders. There is also information about the physical development of Australia. Personally though I found that to be a bit lacking. It could have done with a few more facts and dates about when different areas were settled and more about the specific political and social conditions.<br /><br />Dispossession of the original inhabitants and owners of Australia is the first of Day's two main themes. As he shows later, this has largely been ignored until the last few decades, and is still a topic of hot political debate. Day presents the fact of dispossession and the killing of Aborigines through the records and statements of the people of the time. They knew what was happening, did not consider it something to be disguised or concealed, and used various justifications for it, depending on time period and the conscience of the individual. Day presents all the justifications as attempts to render the Aborigines inhuman, or at least lesser humans, and therefore expendable. He himself utterly rejects that and consistently refers to the killings as murder or massacre. He presents the colonists as having a deliberate though not systematic policy of massacre, occurring when new lands were to be used. Also, it may be worth noting that he contrasts this with the events in the other white Dominions of Britain and in America. In Australia, there were no official attempts to negotiate with the Aborigines. There was no attempt to portray it as other than a takeover, except through the denial of Aborigines being humans to begin with.<br /><br />The second theme is the fear of dispossession, and not feeling at home in this country. He goes through the various stages of White Australia, from the obsession with \\"bleaching\\" Australia through deportation of non-whites and restricting immigration to the British Isles, to the gradual government recognition of the policy's abandonment by the people of Australia. He also goes through the various stages of industrial development of Australia, and shows through quotes how this was related to possession of this country. All throughout, the fear of dispossession is shown through quotes that talk about quite explicitly, and for an amazingly long period of time. The feeling of being far from the mother country is one that he has to show indirectly. Most of it is shown through the statistics of travel and immigration policies. However, as he shows, it was made quite explicit in World War II, which also began the shift of colonial allegiance from Britain to America.<br /><br />Finally, this book is well written and enjoyable just to read. The author generally strives for balance, except on whether Aborigines are human, and that killing them was, and is, murder. In fact, there are a few times when Day is so dispassionate and detached it is a little creepy. So, this book achieves what it set out to do: present a broad overview of the history of Australia, with a focus on two areas of crucial importance to understanding Australians, our society and why our governments make the types of decision they do. I highly recommend it.egin with. <br /> <br />The second theme is the fear of dispossession, and not feeling at home in this country. He goes through the various stages of White Australia, from the obsession with \\"bleaching\\" Australia through deportation of non-whites and restricting immigration to the British Isles, to the gradual government recognition of the policy's abandonment by the people of Australia. He also goes through the various stages of industrial development of Australia, and shows through quotes how this was related to possession of this country. All throughout, the fear of dispossession is shown through quotes that talk about quite explicitly, and for an amazingly long period of time. The feeling of being far from the mother country is one that he has to show indirectly. Most of it is shown through the statistics of travel and immigration policies. However, as he shows, it was made quite explicit in World War II, which also began the shift of colonial allegiance from Britain to America. <br /> <br />Finally, this book is well written and enjoyable just to read. The author generally strives for balance, except on whether Aborigines are human, and that killing them was, and is, murder. In fact, there are a few times when Day is so dispassionate and detached it is a little creepy. So, this book achieves what it set out to do: present a broad overview of the history of Australia, with a focus on two areas of crucial importance to understanding Australians, our society and why our governments make the types of decision they do. I highly recommend it.	2005-09-27
US	40155804	R2OTJ0HBXUR17X	185984412X	238281462	The New Rulers of the World	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Horrifying and shaming	The theme of this book is revealing the Orwellian nature of our leading politicians: they condemn in public a type of crime which they are committing in secret. The first three chapters are about the words and actions of the British and American Governments. Chapter 1 is about Indonesia and its economic success. It charts how Suharto took over with a bloodbath, supplied with hit lists by the Americans. He was sustained in power by weapons sold to him by Britain and America. He was praised for his economic wisdom while he plundered the country, eventually leading to its bankruptcy and his overthrow. Chapter 2 is about Iraq, mass murder and weapons of mass destruction. It states that America and Britain have committed genocide in Iraq. These are not Pilger's words, but the statements of UN officials charged with distributing food and medical aid, as they resigned from their positions in protest. He documents how America and Britain denied the most basic of supplies to Iraq, and how their claims to the contrary are remarkably feeble lies. He uses the infamous statement by Madeleine Albright, Secretary of State to Clinton, who said the price was worth it when specifically asked about the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Iraqi children by American sanctions. Through Pilger's words you meet some of those children, and it becomes impossible not to understand and mourn their deaths. Chapter 3 is mainly about the arms trade. Blair is quoted as saying that the way to stop terrorism is to stop the supply of arms. Pilger documents, as he has done before, that America and Britain remain the world's biggest suppliers of arms, and that when the forces of military dictators shoot civilians, they are usually doing it with American and British weapons.<br /><br />Chapter 4 is about Australia. Pilger collects the evidence about the true state of race relations here: Australia as two nations, a white, healthy first world country, and a black third world group with among other things horrific medical neglect by the government. It started with colonisation by genocide, just as in America, with one difference so far: Americans have acknowledged it and Australians have not. There is an earlier review in which Pilger's accuracy and honesty are challenged based on the half dozen pages he writes about Israel, though the writer does not actually refute anything Pilger has said. One of the very first things I discovered when my family moved here was that Australians are racist, and the depths of it I have discovered since have astonished me. I believe Pilger, in this matter and the others, because I know the truth of much of what he writes from other sources, my own research and simply watching Australian politicians operate.<br /><br />This is excellently written, it is compelling, and it is accurate. The second and fourth chapters individually are worth the price of the book.gs horrific medical neglect by the government. It started with colonisation by genocide, just as in America, with one difference so far: Americans have acknowledged it and Australians have not. There is an earlier review in which Pilger's accuracy and honesty are challenged based on the half dozen pages he writes about Israel, though the writer does not actually refute anything Pilger has said. One of the very first things I discovered when my family moved here was that Australians are racist, and the depths of it I have discovered since have astonished me. I believe Pilger, in this matter and the others, because I know the truth of much of what he writes from other sources, my own research and simply watching Australian politicians operate. <br /> <br />This is excellently written, it is compelling, and it is accurate. The second and fourth chapters individually are worth the price of the book.	2005-09-19
US	40155804	R2PZ0KGN7C0YCZ	1565848403	209925989	Dick: The Man Who Is President	Books	4	17	24	N	N	Good on facts but not motivations	When I read a biography, I expect two main areas to be covered: what the person did, or has done, in their life, and *why*. I want to see the author's insight into their motivations. On that level, this book failed for me.<br /><br />The focus in this book is on Dick Cheney's first term as Vice-President. Everything is related back to it. The author gives the details of Cheney's childhood and education and so forth. When it turns to his political education, it begins to refer ahead to the vice-presidency: he met this person he brought into the White House at this point, or he developed that tendency he would later display in the White House at that point. If you want the facts and figures of Cheney's life, what he did, where he did it, who he met, to an extent what they thought of him at the time, those details are here.<br /><br />The analysis of why Cheney has done and is doing what he is, I think the book fails to deliver. According to the author, Cheney is obsessed with power, and everything he does is geared to that. Sure, that seems to be a justifiable viewpoint, but it's an element in the personality of almost any politician, and it certainly cannot be the one and only motivation the author claims it to be. In fact, that is my main problem, not that the only motivation the author gives Cheney is the lust for power, but that he doesn't even really prove that, more state it as being self-evidently true. It doesn't explain the ultra-right wing voting pattern the author reveals. It doesn't explain why Cheney went to such extremes to hide it, or so much else of his life. Why is Cheney so secretive? I would have appreciated some explanation of why as well as the simple fact of it. On a similar note, the author tries to define Cheney's real position in government. His usual estimate is that of a Prime Minister, but several times his own information backs up the one claim that Cheney is like the CEO of America. If the author had followed up that line of thought, rather than focusing almost exclusively on the purely political side of Cheney's power, I think this book could have told us a lot about his motivations.<br /><br />This book is worth reading, given the position and specific power and influence of this particular neo-conservative, but with the understanding that it gives little more insight into his motivations than books on neo-conservatives in general. If you have to choose between this book, and ones like Chalmers Johnson's The Sorrows of Empire or James Mann's Rise of the Vulcans, both of which the author refers to many times, you really should choose them instead.rather than focusing almost exclusively on the purely political side of Cheney's power, I think this book could have told us a lot about his motivations. <br /> <br />This book is worth reading, given the position and specific power and influence of this particular neo-conservative, but with the understanding that it gives little more insight into his motivations than books on neo-conservatives in general. If you have to choose between this book, and ones like Chalmers Johnson's The Sorrows of Empire or James Mann's Rise of the Vulcans, both of which the author refers to many times, you really should choose them instead.	2005-09-03
US	40155804	R24NC5Y5Z3O078	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	3	19	22	N	N	For me, the magic has ended	This is Rowling's best writing yet. Most of the book maintains the quality of the last chapters of Goblet of Fire. The style can best be described as a mixture of humour and horror. The Weasley twins still manage to produce even more laughs than before. Dumbledore is at his irrepressible best. In general, Rowling manages to point out the funny side in everything but the most serious encounters. In counterpoint to this, a real terrorist war is raging. Hardly a chapter goes by without news of the disappearance of a known character, or a family member of one of the schoolchildren.<br /><br />This book was previewed as the most romantic yet. That's true ... in the sense of teen hormones going crazy. Rowling devotes a considerable section in the middle of the book almost entirely to affairs at Hogwarts. It's not about the lessons, or the presence of the war in the School, it's all about Quidditch and who is going out, and why they are doing it with the wrong person. It is pretty amusing to start with, but even I found it went on for a bit too long.<br /><br />The main section of the book, which mostly comes after that, is essentially one of answers to many of the questions we have been, or should have been asking. It begins a little stereotypically, but then gets very interesting and informative. Unfortunately, at the end one could say too many questions are answered. The ending is dramatic, and the revelations there so shocking, that they seemed to me they would have been more suitable immediately before the conclusion of the entire series than of one book.<br /><br />There is always a debate about the appropriate age groups for a particular Harry Potter book. I would say this one is set for about 14-19 year olds. I am not sure how well younger children would handle the overall tone of this book. For the adults, my major disappointment with this book, as with so many other fiction books, was with the philosophy revealed at the end. In all the previous books, the message has been that love can triumph over evil and death, and that enough people with good intentions can stand together and defeat evil. In this book, Harry and his friends are, or are about to become, legal adults in their world. The message, it seems, is that ALL the previous adults have failed. Too many of them have turned to evil, and those that have not are split into factions too weak to fight evil on their own and too divided to fight together. Harry's generation will have to essentially ignore them as they fight against Voldemort and his minions and set the world to rights.<br /><br />I can understand that view, but I don't like it, I don't agree with it and I can see just how flawed it is. I mean, even in the books, the generation of Harry's parents thought that, and before them *Voldemort's* generation thought that. I had really enjoyed the book up to that point. Not only did the conclusion mostly wreck the effect of the previous pages, but at least in the immediate aftermath it seems to have ruined the entire series for me. The innocence and sense of hope and optimism is gone. And simply because of my age, I am lumped in with those that caused the problems, and it seems I am no longer welcome in Harry's little world.essage has been that love can triumph over evil and death, and that enough people with good intentions can stand together and defeat evil. In this book, Harry and his friends are, or are about to become, legal adults in their world. The message, it seems, is that ALL the previous adults have failed. Too many of them have turned to evil, and those that have not are split into factions too weak to fight evil on their own and too divided to fight together. Harry's generation will have to essentially ignore them as they fight against Voldemort and his minions and set the world to rights. <br /> <br />I can understand that view, but I don't like it, I don't agree with it and I can see just how flawed it is. I mean, even in the books, the generation of Harry's parents thought that, and before them *Voldemort's* generation thought that. I had really enjoyed the book up to that point. Not only did the conclusion mostly wreck the effect of the previous pages, but at least in the immediate aftermath it seems to have ruined the entire series for me. The innocence and sense of hope and optimism is gone. And simply because of my age, I am lumped in with those that caused the problems, and it seems I am no longer welcome in Harry's little world.	2005-07-17
US	40155804	RUZX9Y99XN5HA	0713997923	140825223	Lawless World: America and the Making and Breaking of Global Rules~Philippe Sands	Books	5	59	64	N	N	A great introduction to international law	Before starting, I must say that I do not know much about international law, though I have spent a lot of time observing international affairs. This book sets out what international law is, how it has been made, and how and why America is refusing to follow it. The first chapters deal specifically with the history of international law. Basically, it was essentially begun by America during World War II, with a lot of British help, as a system of protecting individuals from abuse by foreign governments. It expanded to protect individuals from abuse by their own governments as well. The Pinochet case, which the author spends a lot of time on, expanded it further, if controversially, to the idea that a head of state cannot claim immunity from a charge of torture or murder or genocide with the defence that they were official state actions. As far as I can tell, it accurately reflects the view of international law outside of America.<br /><br />The next few chapters mostly deal with America's modern stance on international law. First off, the author demonstrates that America has no problem with non-Americans being held accountable to international law, including international tribunals over war crimes. He then demonstrates that America also has no problems obeying international economic law. His theory is that this is because economic laws help the US, so it sees no need to ignore and denigrate them - yet. Then comes America's stance on international law. He provides general evidence and specific examples, such as the Kyoto Agreement and the International Criminal Court, of international laws and areas that America has withdrawn itself from.<br /><br />The last chapters deal mainly with what America has chosen to do with its self-declared freedom from international law and accountability: torture. Specifically, Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib. He lays out the legal arguments that the people confined there are outside international law, and that this reasoning is based on both misunderstanding of those laws and a simple refusal to accept them. He demonstrates the extent to which torture is a violation of international law. Specifically, it is a crime against humanity for anyone to commit, under any circumstances. During this, he also quotes from the US Army Field Manual, according to which torture is illegal ... and ineffective.<br /><br />The book ends with a summary of all the preceding sections, and then an explanation of the American justifications for ignoring international law and the legal and other flaws behind their reasoning,. He ends by pointing out that, at the end of the day, America has to operate within the world community, and no amount of power, force and arrogance will allow America simply to give orders and be obeyed. I found this book to be quite well written, easy to read, and with the legal arguments clearly laid out and easy to follow. I would recommend it as an introduction to international law, and for its non-American-centric perspective.n both misunderstanding of those laws and a simple refusal to accept them. He demonstrates the extent to which torture is a violation of international law. Specifically, it is a crime against humanity for anyone to commit, under any circumstances. During this, he also quotes from the US Army Field Manual, according to which torture is illegal ... and ineffective. <br /> <br />The book ends with a summary of all the preceding sections, and then an explanation of the American justifications for ignoring international law and the legal and other flaws behind their reasoning,. He ends by pointing out that, at the end of the day, America has to operate within the world community, and no amount of power, force and arrogance will allow America simply to give orders and be obeyed. I found this book to be quite well written, easy to read, and with the legal arguments clearly laid out and easy to follow. I would recommend it as an introduction to international law, and for its non-American-centric perspective.	2005-06-16
US	40155804	R1UNYJ0PXNJVP2	0743491513	970142147	Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Hollow Men	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Nothing happens	This book starts off with a quote from a John Le Carre novel. All I really know about his writing style is that I once tried to read a book of his, but gave it up after I had read a third and nothing had happened. I recalled this little detail when I was halfway through this book ... and nothing had happened. There is almost nothing in this book except people talking or thinking. All those conversations, even the thinking, are written with a subtext, various hints and hidden meanings. An espionage novel where the characters hide things from one another, and to start with the reader, is pretty standard. A novel in which the author never clues the reader in on what is happening is new in my experience. Anyway, the writing style is quite bland. The characters talk and talk and never resolve anything. The characterisations, except for the major characters of the story, are quite shallow. Garak's story strikes me as a standard and rather sordid espionage tale. Garak and his wit are in full play, but even he cannot overcome the banality of the story. Sisko is perfectly portrayed as being moody and depressed and irritable and basically an unpleasant person to be around, or to read about. If key scenes dealt with it, that would be one thing, but he is like that the whole time. The Odo-and-Quark story, back on the station, is reasonably interesting and entertaining. Eventually though it just peters out and, despite some dramatic seeming events, nothing really happens.<br /><br />With all that said, on considering the conclusion I have the feeling that the book might show an extremely intricate plotline, if I reread it and analysed each section. However, there is no entertainment value in doing so. Nothing in this book caught my interest. For that matter, nothing in this book was offensive or irritating enough to stop reading. In fact, the book never even got quite boring enough to be worth putting aside. There was always Odo's investigation, or some other little hint that something might eventually happen ... until I got to the last page. But in the end, nothing really happens.something might eventually happen ... until I got to the last page. But in the end, nothing really happens.	2005-06-15
US	40155804	R1U4HEJNIKBCQ0	0865715408	218947445	Crossing the Rubicon: The Decline of the American Empire at the End of the Age of Oil	Books	5	21	26	N	N	The quality of evidence is extraordinary	I began reading this thinking it was a Conspiracy Theory, but willing to give it a chance. By the end of the very first chapter, the quality of the evidence, as the author puts it, had persuaded me otherwise. That chapter contains strong evidence, plus historical precedent. Most of the evidence in this book comes from the `alternative' media and the investigations of the author's own organisation. The majority of this information can also be found by reading a dozen, perhaps just half a dozen well chosen books on politics and current affairs. For those that consider alternative media sources a point against this book, the last quarter of it moves more and more over to mainstream media sources, and books such as Richard Clarke's Against All Enemies. The type of evidence remains the same, however, with the shift in sources. Most convincing of all, the last quarter also makes increasing use of official statements by Bush, Rumsfeld, Condoleeza Rice and the government in general, and also the laws and executive orders. One could try to counter this with `out of context' - but how can an attempt to establish a futures market based on successfully predicting terrorist activity be taken out of context? Then there are the Patriot Acts. The author found them the most unbelievable of the evidence he collected, but they are American law, and (presumably) the easiest of all his evidence to verify.<br /><br />The author's attitude is that of a criminal investigation. It works, which is why I have been using the term evidence for this review. His writing comes off as generally objective, and his main goal is to present the most convincing evidence and connect it together. For a lot of it, one can see the connections from previous evidence before the author even starts laying them out. The author's objective attitude is especially noteworthy, since his book includes several of his own articles, one of which has exactly the arrogant, condescending, \\"I'm better than you cause I can handle the truth\\" attitude that makes reading Noam Chomsky and a few others such a chore. This book may be hard to read because of what the author says, but rarely because of how he chooses to say it.<br /><br />I give this book my strongest recommendation for people that want to know how the imperialists in America function in the economy, industry, the military and the government, and their operations throughout the world. It does not, as some reviewers suggest, give complete coverage. The author, perhaps due to his own faith, denies the influence of religion on the imperialists, and its use for enforcing imperial control. Also, for someone who has given lectures in Australia, he is surprisingly naive about the politics of media barons that happen to have come from here. America is not the only country that has imperialists, nor are all American imperialists actually American.n handle the truth\\" attitude that makes reading Noam Chomsky and a few others such a chore. This book may be hard to read because of what the author says, but rarely because of how he chooses to say it. <br /> <br />I give this book my strongest recommendation for people that want to know how the imperialists in America function in the economy, industry, the military and the government, and their operations throughout the world. It does not, as some reviewers suggest, give complete coverage. The author, perhaps due to his own faith, denies the influence of religion on the imperialists, and its use for enforcing imperial control. Also, for someone who has given lectures in Australia, he is surprisingly naive about the politics of media barons that happen to have come from here. America is not the only country that has imperialists, nor are all American imperialists actually American.	2005-04-29
US	40155804	R12CJPKTRXT7A5	0743483529	553142613	Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Worlds of Deep Space Nine #2: Trill and Bajor (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - World of Deep Space Nine) (No. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I enjoyed both stories	The Trill story is fantastic, although it does not start out that way. It begins with a now typical Trek story: the people of Trill are frightened, and thus angry at their government, which happens to be habitually secretive, and the extremists are turning to violence. The characterisations are good, although they seem a little lacking in depth. The descriptions are very good, although sometimes they get a bit wordy and excessive. Do they need to describe everything, even once-off things that don't impact the story? What the characters do, and their commentary on why, is very clearly written and done well. The authors have a neat trick of switching to minor characters to describe what Bashir or Dax is doing, and why, which also works very well.<br /><br />I found the story to be good but not particularly exciting or unique, up to the middle where one of the characters informs Dax that she's going where no one has gone before ... on her own home planet. After that, it's incredible. It has everything: a society on the verge of total chaos, desperate combat scenes, heroic medical drama, and moral debates. Most impressive of all was the voyage of discovery made by Dax. I enjoyed this story tremendously.<br /><br />The Bajor story is a love story, along with catching us up on the lives of everyone not in another Worlds story, and events on Bajor generally. The characterisations are excellent, as they need to be since they are the core of the story. The descriptions are vivid instead of specific; we are told what we need to see rather than everything (in some contrast to the first story). That worked well. The event scenes (only some qualify as `action' scenes) are clear and well written. The story starts off very low key and took some time to get going. However, the plotting of the romance was good, if perhaps with a rushed ending, and worked in well with the other parts of the story. The one major complaint I have is that the epilogue was full of vague `A Big Threat is Coming' ruminations. There is enough of a transition feel to this story that waving the fact in our faces was quite unnecessary. This story did not impress me as much as the first did, but I enjoyed it quite a lot as well.is Coming' ruminations. There is enough of a transition feel to this story that waving the fact in our faces was quite unnecessary. This story did not impress me as much as the first did, but I enjoyed it quite a lot as well.	2005-04-07
US	40155804	R39TA20DPHRZKZ	0743492854	680164549	Ex Machina (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long-winded but ultimately satisfying	I found this to be a long winded and often irritating book that works up to a quite entertaining ending. First off, if you are interested in what this book has to say about the fate of V'Ger, Decker and Ilia, it is incidental to the plot and there is not much there. The secondary story of the book is the now typical resistance of a people to the imposition of outside ideas, with the most extreme turning to terrorism and the government responding with heavy handed security measures. Personally I find it irritating when the outer story is just a backdrop to the characters' emotional problems, which are the main story here. This is a transition story, as the main characters question their life paths. It is an interesting idea, but I feel the author was too heavy handed. Each major story character gets a four page internal monologue to set out what brought them to this point. There are eight or ten of them. Long internal monologues are not a good way to sustain reader interest, and that is too many of them. Spock and McCoy, the major characters questioning themselves, also come off too self-centred. Both of them are concerned with how the mission will affect their personal lives, rather than how their problems may affect their mission. Also, Spock and McCoy have counterparts, with almost no story purpose but to point out their flaws as loudly and offensively, for character and reader, as possible. These people are arrogant, close-minded, self-righteous bigots. There can be few things worse than the internal monologue of such a person, and when that character is there for the sole purpose of making McCoy look bad, it just gets ridiculous. To top it all off, I found there to be too much technobabble. This is an area I very rarely complain about, but this author found little details to explain in excessive depth.<br /><br />Obviously, despite all this I found enough of this book enjoyable. For one thing, Kirk isn't stuck at the questioning stage like everyone else, he is in the looking for answers stage, and he does not let it interfere noticeably in his behaviour, all of which is refreshingly in character. Spock and McCoy are a little annoying when alone, but they are in splendid form when together. Also, my biggest complaint about the monologues is that the dialogue between characters is good. The quality of the writing is generally very good, the descriptions and action scenes very clear. Finally, the last third of the book twists the plot from \\"get both sides to talk\\" to \\"stop the madman\\". The characters emotional lives take a backseat to the action. It is typical Original Series: Kirk sneaks around and leads redshirts into fire fights, miracle work is demanded of Scotty, Spock is philosophising, mindmelding and exercising his particular brand of sardonic humour. This section was excellent. All in all, I found the book as a whole to be an entertaining read, though it should have been shorter, more focussed, and have less of the close-minded counterpoint characters.in the looking for answers stage, and he does not let it interfere noticeably in his behaviour, all of which is refreshingly in character. Spock and McCoy are a little annoying when alone, but they are in splendid form when together. Also, my biggest complaint about the monologues is that the dialogue between characters is good. The quality of the writing is generally very good, the descriptions and action scenes very clear. Finally, the last third of the book twists the plot from \\"get both sides to talk\\" to \\"stop the madman\\". The characters emotional lives take a backseat to the action. It is typical Original Series: Kirk sneaks around and leads redshirts into fire fights, miracle work is demanded of Scotty, Spock is philosophising, mindmelding and exercising his particular brand of sardonic humour. This section was excellent. All in all, I found the book as a whole to be an entertaining read, though it should have been shorter, more focussed, and have less of the close-minded counterpoint characters.	2005-04-04
US	40155804	R35EI6UR3BJVR1	0743492579	522789973	Enemy of My Enemy (Star Trek Voyager: Spirit Walk, Book 2) (Bk. 2)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Light entertainment	This is reasonable if light entertainment reading. The characters are good but shallow, as are most of the descriptions. Thankfully, quite a lot happens in this book. The pacing is good and the story moves along quickly. The plot is rather convoluted and not really fleshed out. The main villain is supposed to be a Machiavellian type, but he just does not have the complexity to make it realistic. Also, the inclusion of the Voyager characters no longer on the ship felt fairly gratuitous. The story would have benefited from seeing a less of them and giving depth to the events on the ship. The events leading directly to the climax were too metaphysical to me. I have often felt that this author should have stuck with the fantasy genre and magic, as they do not mix well with Star Trek, at least in my opinion. Finally, the climax was a bit like the ending of The Matrix, with a pseudo-Native American gloss, and not as well done. However, Gradak Kaz's eventual revenge was rather elegant. All in all, the book as a whole was enjoyable, but it is strictly light entertainment. There is nothing to really recommend against it, but there is nothing to really recommend it either.	2005-02-26
US	40155804	RCIPK4TWRQJB8	0345461738	717849362	Lara Croft: Tomb Raider: The Man of Bronze (Tomb Raider Lara Croft)	Books	2	6	6	N	Y	Could have been great, but deliberately is not	This book could have been great, but the author chose not to make it so. First I want to deal with the technical side, which is generally very good. The format is a bit like a computer game: each chapter title is a specific location. The descriptions are vivid and exact. They are not quite graphic. However, Lara's commentary when she is fighting can sometimes be a bit disturbingly blunt and callous. With that said, most of her commentary adds to the story and is in character. The general dialogue is good. The action scenes are excellent, and sometimes very creative.<br /><br />The area where the book is flawed is the treatment of the story. The first quarter of the book is an excellent beginning: despite prodigious efforts, her friend is killed, and Lara is offered the chance to both help a (hopefully) good secret society reclaim its artefacts and get revenge. The last quarter of the book is the endgame of a battle spanning millennia, and is a pretty good conclusion to the story. The half the book in between is typical get the artefact, elude the bad guys tomb raiding. We know it's typical because the author says so right in the text. Whenever a scene is a standard type in the adventure genre, such as Lara gets the artefact and the bad guys take hostages, she points out in irritation that this is what always happens to her. She complains about clich&eacute;d dialogue too, even when she says it. Also, there are extinct monsters included pretty much because it's a standard feature of the games, with the barest justification for them in the story. Finally, Lara's attitude is that the tomb raiding is a boring slog she is forced to endure while she would rather be doing something else. Her negative attitude sucks the life out of the adventure.<br /><br />This could have been an excellent book. The author intentionally made it otherwise. That leaves me feeling quite frustrated, much more than the enjoyment I got from the decent last quarter of the book. I cannot recommend this.is.	2005-01-18
US	40155804	R1H3PSOSQ9XHYI	0743492587	118186550	Spirit Walk, Book One: Old Wounds (Star Trek Voyager (Paperback Unnumbered)) (Bk. 1)	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	Just a really long introduction	The intent of this book was to establish the main characters of the new Voyager crew. Unfortunately, that's all there is to it, and it's not even well done. The character descriptions are quite vivid, but there is not a lot of depth to them. Essentially, the major characters are either suffering from psychological \\"old wounds\\", or the people attempting to heal them. The character interactions are well done, but similarly shallow. The general descriptions of people and places are fairly good but still shallow. I would normally describe the action now - but there isn't any! Up to about page 200, nothing solid happens, and not much really happens after that. The author begins story after story, virtually one for each of the characters, but there is almost nothing beyond that. In a duology, at worst you should be halfway through most of the stories by the end of the first book. Here *nothing* is developed beyond the first elements.<br /><br />I cannot recommend this book in any way. This will almost certainly not help decide whether the second book is worth getting. It is not remotely worth it as a stand-alone book, because it isn't even half of one. Finally, I have not gotten or read the second book yet, but I strongly suspect you could read that book without any need to read this.	2005-01-13
US	40155804	R36N2LNWX9CQ9Q	0345463099	80649071	Yoda: Dark Rendezvous (Star Wars: Clone Wars)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	I thoroughly enjoyed it	I stopped getting Star Wars books, apart from the occasional prequel book, some time ago. Reading this has encouraged me to take a better look at the recent books. On a technical level, this is a good book. The general writing is very good. The main characters have a lot of depth and development, including such established characters as Yoda and Dooku. The supporting characters are quite vivid and clear. The general descriptions are very vivid, well chosen and very good. The action scenes, of which there are quite a lot, are generally written from one or two characters' perspectives only. It's not always clear what is going on in the overall battle, but the character's own view, personal commentary, and the reason for the choices they make is excellent. It also fits the tone of the book, which is all about personal choice. The main characters really appealed to me, and if the author writes another book featuring `Scout' I would probably get it.<br /><br />Why I really enjoyed this book, though, was its moral clarity. The big thing these days seems to be \\"moral ambiguity\\", which appears to boil to the \\"good guys\\" just being the side with the best PR. In this, good and evil are clear. It's not about your politics or your economic status or following blindly your country's leader, it is a personal choice, and not irrevocable but ongoing. The psychological battle within Dooku, watching him make his choices, was really enjoyable. The \\"secondary\\" story of the two Padawans finding their place in the Force was just as good. So, to sum up, this is well written, thoroughly entertaining, sometimes moving, and I enjoyed it.	2005-01-13
US	40155804	R2F8NW4DL5OOS3	0743491793	506097072	Star Trek: A Time for War, A Time for Peace (Star Trek)(Star Trek The Next Generation)(Star Trek Deep Space Nine)(Star Trek Voyager)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A somber story with depth	This is a book that took me some getting into. The presentation is excellent. The characterisations of old characters are spot on, with one exception, and the ones for this book are very clear and, again with one exception, appealing. The old exception is Worf, who comes across more appealing and interesting than he often did on TV. The author's style of mixing descriptive text with action and internal commentary is one I have always enjoyed. The dialogue is wonderfully witty. At one point during the confrontation between Kahless and Martok, I had to put the book down until I stopped laughing.<br /><br />With that said, I find this book to generally be a somber one, unusual in Star Trek. It is, of course, the final transition between the united Enterprise crew and the dispersion after Nemesis. That part is very reflective, going into the way each character has developed over the years. The author managed to cover every character in depth, including the literarure only Christine Vale, but in a style which did not bog the book down, as previous A Time to ... books generally did. It is also a transition for the two core nations of Trek. For the Klingons, this was another story of the conservative nobility trying to oust Martok by force and propaganda. The presentation was great, but its ground that has been covered before.<br /><br />For the Federation, it also involved the battle against violent conservativism, and here is where I had a problem with the content. The leading contender for Federation President, Fel Pargo, is essentially a clone of George W. Bush. I despise Bush, so I despised Pargo on meeting him and he only got worse as the book went along. His main election appeal was that since the Federation stood for liberty and justice and the Klingons stood for conquest, the Klingons had to either conform to Federation morals or face invasion and conquest. That is a stupid idea on the face of it. It makes even less sense in terms of Federation history, the idealism underlying Star Trek, and the objective fact that the Federation is still (as mentioned here) having great difficulty recovering from a defensive war that it won only due to Klingon aid. Getting past this, and my false assumption that the election would have a lot of pages with this sort of nonsense was the reason I had such a problem getting into this book.<br /><br />The author presents and resolves the theme of transition very well. Despite the wonderful dialogue, I cannot say that I really enjoyed this book, or would consider reading it again for entertainment. However, I am glad that I was able to read it. It is deep and thought-provoking. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who has really gotten involved with the Next Generation characters. This is a vital step in the development of their ongoing story.ealism underlying Star Trek, and the objective fact that the Federation is still (as mentioned here) having great difficulty recovering from a defensive war that it won only due to Klingon aid. Getting past this, and my false assumption that the election would have a lot of pages with this sort of nonsense was the reason I had such a problem getting into this book. <br /> <br />The author presents and resolves the theme of transition very well. Despite the wonderful dialogue, I cannot say that I really enjoyed this book, or would consider reading it again for entertainment. However, I am glad that I was able to read it. It is deep and thought-provoking. I would definitely recommend it to anyone who has really gotten involved with the Next Generation characters. This is a vital step in the development of their ongoing story.	2005-01-02
US	40155804	R2TQ0UXA5ZUBBC	0743491785	859293155	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #8: A Time to Heal	Books	2	11	18	N	N	This was hijacked for the US election	As a cynical observer of US politics, this seems to me to be a commentary on that more than it ever does a Star Trek book. For starters, all the politicians are corrupted by power. They will order the deaths of as many people as necessary to preserve their secrets, or sometimes even each other's secrets. On the Enterprise side, the action consists of escalating rounds of terrorist strikes and retaliation by Starfleet. It is really depressing and tedious to read. It is also quite wearing since it is quite deliberately just like the weekly news from Iraq. On the personal side, Deanna Troi is put in charge of interrogating a high-ranking prisoner. For a while it is a battle of wits, but Troi quickly snaps and spends most of her time fantasising about what she would do to the prisoner if not bound by Federation morality. Not only is it depressing and wearing to read, but I could see how Troi could have manipulated him psychologically if she hadn't finally succumbed to Counselor's disease and gone crazy. About three quarters or so into the book, the action moves into all out war. The descriptions throughout this book are the most graphic I can ever recall in a Trek book. The violence is stomach-churning, for me quite literally.<br /><br />So the descriptions are very vivid and very clear, but I for one did not want to read them because of their content. The characterisations, it must be said, are excellent. The people you are supposed to hate are truly loathsome. The Enterprise crew are very well done as well. However, there is essentially no humour or relief from the depictions of conflict and brutality. It also starts moralising about how war has changed the Federation into something a lot tougher, or rather more violent and much less moral. Finally, in the conclusion comes the real kicker: the Enterprise crew has lost faith in the Federation itself, questioning whether this incident of treason and mass murder was a once-off. Or does it mean that, regardless of the idealism of the people and the high moral codes they choose to obey, in politics the scum always rise to the top?<br /><br />I read Star Trek for entertainment and for escapism. This book fails on both counts. On the entertainment level, I do not expect or accept graphic violence in a Trek book. I also want content that may be moving, even saddening, but is not relentlessly depressing. For escapism, I do not want the Iraq occupation shoved in my face in my fiction reading. Also, the Federation has been a bright mirror, reflecting what America could be like if its people truly lived up to its founding ideals. This book has hijacked that, sacrificing the vision of a better future to try and force us to confront the present. If we cannot escape from reality now and then, we will lose our ability to change it. I have to recommend against reading this.idealism of the people and the high moral codes they choose to obey, in politics the scum always rise to the top? <br /> <br />I read Star Trek for entertainment and for escapism. This book fails on both counts. On the entertainment level, I do not expect or accept graphic violence in a Trek book. I also want content that may be moving, even saddening, but is not relentlessly depressing. For escapism, I do not want the Iraq occupation shoved in my face in my fiction reading. Also, the Federation has been a bright mirror, reflecting what America could be like if its people truly lived up to its founding ideals. This book has hijacked that, sacrificing the vision of a better future to try and force us to confront the present. If we cannot escape from reality now and then, we will lose our ability to change it. I have to recommend against reading this.	2004-12-18
US	40155804	RK8V8FEKK9PT3	0743448588	627661415	Maker (Star Trek: Stargazer)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Finally, a book not just for Stargazer fans	This is a true sequel to The Valiant, thankfully with the quality of writing that deserves. The descriptions of the book are generally good. Many of the characterisations are somewhat shallow, and some Stargazer crew appear just so we do not forget they exist. The few characters important to this story alone get the depth, and they are very well done. Andreas Nikolas is excellent. The depiction of the Barrier-affected Nuyyad is remarkable. He is one of the most inventively sadistic villains in Star Trek. The pacing is also well judged. About halfway through, I thought the book was turning to slow scenes of the life of the Stargazer crew. There were just a couple of those scenes, and then the author brings in some of the mind-bending scenes between Nikolas and the Nuyyad. To sum up, this is a good read. It is enjoyable in its own right, and you probably do not have to have read most, perhaps any, of the previous Stargazer books to understand the characters.	2004-12-14
US	40155804	R35KBIGUY60ZZC	0743491777	191386934	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #7: A Time to Kill	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An incredible and very enjoyable story.	This book starts with a seven page recap of the series, and then plunges right into an incredible political intrigue. At one-third through the book, where previous books of the series are ending their recaps, it switches over to commando missions. The pacing never lets up. The descriptions are very clear and the action scenes are very dramatic and generally well done. The characterisations start out a bit flat, but are excellent during the commando sections. The plotting of the story is remarkable. We follow six commando teams, plus asides to the Enterprise, Qo'noS, Earth and other places. I do not think I have read a book that follows so many characters at once. I certainly have never read a book that does it so well, completely clear about who is doing what. On a minor note, there are references to many events since the Dominion War, including from books that have not been released yet, seamlessly worked in. Also, I finally get an explanation of the Federation politics that has underlain the series. That is really interesting, but I do not know why they did not present it earlier. Last, the scope of this story is huge. If the Enterprise crew fails, a war to the finish with the Klingon Empire is an absolute certainty, and the characters never forget it or allow us to. I have only one complaint. Koll Azernal is neither devious nor capable enough to sustain his plots. He probably would have come unglued long before this. That does make me look forward even more to the next book, though, as then the real master schemers should get into the action. It is worth mentioning at this point that this book, unlike previous books in the series, is a complete story in itself. The next book is also the next story. Obviously, I give this my highest recommendation.	2004-12-02
US	40155804	RHACKY2P1G5PV	034546172X	897650383	Lara Croft: Tomb Raider: The Lost Cult	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A good, light Lara Croft story	This is a good though not spectacular Lara Croft book. The characterisations in general were very good. For the first third the characterisation of Lara seemed a bit odd to me. She was portrayed as considerably more of a typical English Lady than I have ever pictured her. She was also depicted as having a fan club and being some sort of celebrity. I am more of a movie fan than a games fan so I do not know whether games fans would find that odd or fitting. At any rate, that section was still well written. After it the action really starts. The action scenes are written in a clear style with lots of dramatic action. Some of them might not pass muster if they were in a more realistic book, but they are very entertaining regardless. Lara also has several companions who come across as fleshed out, interesting characters. The fighting is left to Lara, while these characters fill out very appropriate roles of their own in the story. There is even a bit of philosophy about the nature of reality versus the perception of it. One thing I did find objectionable, and I must warn that this is a bit of an ending Spoiler, was that Lara found reasons not to kill her main opponents, but the author gave them gruesome deaths anyway. That was rather unnecessary. All in all, this is a light action adventure story. I would not recommend it on its own, but I would to any people already fans of Lara Croft.	2004-10-14
US	40155804	ROQPAD5KW9QM7	0743462890	798851664	A Time to Hate (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Depicts the futility of war too well	For some reason, this book never really caught my interest. The characterisations are very well done, particularly that of Kyle Riker. Even the most minor Starfleet officers are established as people instead of red shirts. That makes the many scenes of them dying have more impact. The book is very good at depicting the numbing futility of the Enterprise crew trying to keep the planet's people from destroying each other before the cure can be found. However, as fiction reading it is still a flaw. It is depressing to read, and it too much resembles the real daily news. Also, a very happy event happens for two of the Enterprise crew, but it is hard to empathise with them considering what else is going on. Finally, Dr. Crusher spends a lot of time considering her decision about Starfleet Medical. We already know what that decision is, so her continuing to agonise over it is also wearing, and it still does not seem appropriate to me for it to happen in the middle of a planetary emergency. So, all in all, the enjoyment factor is less than the quality of the writing deserves.	2004-10-12
US	40155804	R1BBXP6DF7DK1E	0743448561	802905261	Star Trek: The Next Generation: Stargazer: Enigma	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Twice as long as the story deserves.	This features a huge, unstoppable alien fleet heading straight for the Earth. It is also very slow and not much happens. Those are two things that should not go together, but the author managed it. With that said, the characterisations are fairly good and the action that does happen is clearly described. The author also manages to slowly but surely build the tension level and get some anticipation for a big ending going. The ending is one of the most unexpected and bizarre in style that I have come across in Trek reading. I prefer not to give out spoilers, but it will appeal to those who like diplomacy but not those who favour big space battles. Overall, this book is mediocre, not memorably good or bad. The main flaw is simple: this is not a story worth 250 pages. It could and should have been told in less. There is a lot of material that is just here to keep minor storylines going until they can, presumably, be resolved in the next book. So, anyone who has read the Stargazer series up to this point might as well get it. Anyone looking for a good story in its own right will have to look elsewhere.	2004-10-11
US	40155804	R2LSRBH75PPO5A	0439358078	667539744	Harry Potter And The Order Of The Phoenix	Books	5	4	4	N	N	More adult fiction should be at least half this entertaining	Why do the Harry Potter books do so well? Because, unlike so many fiction books for adults, the author's main goal is to entertain. This is a child's book in the sense that it is written from the viewpoint of a child, and everything stems from that. The characterisations are excellent, and wonderfully vivid. Many people complain about Harry's attitude, but I think it was very well done. Harry has been through, and experiences in this book, some truly horrible things, for anyone let alone a kid. The depiction is very good, and I think accurate, and it definitely earned my sympathy for him. Also, his friends provide him some great support, and in my opinion especially when Harry might otherwise cross the line to annoying me. Most of all, most of Harry's outbursts are a direct response to the government's teacher lying or abusing his friends, and Harry doesn't let the knowledge that he will in turn be abused stop him. I have read adult books where the political abuse went unchallenged so long I got too frustrated to continue reading, so I really enjoyed that theme.<br /><br />This book is quite different from the preceding books, in terms of pacing, style of events, and how many characters it features. There are many more active characters, and more attention given to defining their personalities. Existing characters also gain a great deal of depth, and it is usually in quite surprising ways. The pacing and style is that of a political war, as it should be. That is, one side acts, there is a lag and then a reaction from the school body or the general public, then the other side responds, and so on. Things take time to proceed. Also, the classes are the most intense yet, and they are intertwined with the school's politics. There are a number of other plot threads that develop over time. Rowling uses this time to give us a lot of information about the wizarding world, and a lot of back story on Harry's parents' time at Hogwarts. I found the information very interesting, but others feel the story should move faster (mostly adults, as far as I can tell). Finally, Rowling usually has only one big surprise before those at the end of the book. This book is a bit like Chamber of Secrets, in that there are a number of shocking events that come as real surprises. There are also more, or at least bigger shocks and surprises in the final chapters than ever before. At any rate, I thought the pacing and style were very good and well judged. Taking more pages to present events and information has worked out very well.<br /><br />There is one flaw in this book for me as an adult reader: Harry's romance is not very well done. Harry being clueless about girls is entirely appropriate. Harry spent a lot of time thinking about a girl in the last book. Now he is dating her but rarely thinking of her, which is most of his problem. His and also Ron's reactions are really immature for their age. It is in sharp contrast to that of Hermione and the other girls, even younger ones, as well. It is not clear whether Rowling is making a concession to younger readers, or whether this is the one area in which she understands girls but boys.<br /><br />This is my longest review yet, so I better give the important information here. I think the book is very well written, the pacing well judged, the plot lines intriguing, and the characterisation excellent. Most of all, it is wonderfully entertaining, which is my most important criteria for fiction. I really enjoy reading it., but others feel the story should move faster (mostly adults, as far as I can tell). Finally, Rowling usually has only one big surprise before those at the end of the book. This book is a bit like Chamber of Secrets, in that there are a number of shocking events that come as real surprises. There are also more, or at least bigger shocks and surprises in the final chapters than ever before. At any rate, I thought the pacing and style were very good and well judged. Taking more pages to present events and information has worked out very well. <br /> <br />There is one flaw in this book for me as an adult reader: Harry's romance is not very well done. Harry being clueless about girls is entirely appropriate. Harry spent a lot of time thinking about a girl in the last book. Now he is dating her but rarely thinking of her, which is most of his problem. His and also Ron's reactions are really immature for their age. It is in sharp contrast to that of Hermione and the other girls, even younger ones, as well. It is not clear whether Rowling is making a concession to younger readers, or whether this is the one area in which she understands girls but boys. <br /> <br />This is my longest review yet, so I better give the important information here. I think the book is very well written, the pacing well judged, the plot lines intriguing, and the characterisation excellent. Most of all, it is wonderfully entertaining, which is my most important criteria for fiction. I really enjoy reading it. <br />	2004-09-04
US	40155804	R3IWML3WMUMKD0	074348780X	563079243	Star Trek: Strange New Worlds VII	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All the stories are good, most great.	It has finally happened: all the stories are good. In fact, the majority of the stories are great. The Original Series stories are really entertaining. \\"A Test of Character\\" and \\"All Fall Down\\" capture Kirk, Spock and McCoy perfectly. \\"The Trouble with Tribals\\" is a wonderful alternate viewpoint story. The Next Generation stories are just as good, but generally also quite sad, which I never find as appealing. The Deep Space Nine stories return to humour. The first story there is also about the weirdest presentation style since the \\"sentient story\\" earlier in this series. It works surprisingly well. The Voyager stories are good, but apart from \\"Redux\\" are below the high standard of the rest of the collection. Finally, the Speculations section has returned. The second story was good but not great. In the first story, \\"Guardians\\", the author absolutely went nuts depicting the future of the Federation, in sections rather than one go as in Volume 6. It was definitely one of the best. The third and last story, \\"Forgotten Light\\", was also about the origins of the Borg. It was quite thought-provoking.<br /><br />So, all in all - I really enjoyed this.	2004-08-19
US	40155804	R16HYGH6HYFT3Y	0743462858	154624477	A Time to Love (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Starts slowly and works to a very tense ending	As with most other recent Next Generation books, this one takes a lot of pages to get interesting. The book starts off with the obligatory recap. The next third or so is fairly slow reading. The author has the crew doing a lot of very mundane stuff throughout the book. It is all right when the crew are talking or otherwise interacting, but there is a lot of just thinking or watching. However, the author carefully increases the amount and intensity of events on the planet. It begins with a murder, with nothing added for a third of the book or so, and ends with the whole planet going crazy. The tempo is excellently gauged, after that first third, so the tension level is sky high by the time the book ends. The pace of the mystery behind the events is also quite well paced. With that said, I caught on to the core of the problem quite early in the book. Waiting for the Enterprise crew to catch up could have become frustrating, but as I began to feel that, the tempo began to pick up considerably and kept my interest level going up. That might not work for everyone. So, like its predecessors, much of this book is good and entertaining, but it takes a while to get there.	2004-08-14
US	40155804	R1CO4GTU0IQIEB	0743445627	646144995	Mission Gamma Book Two: This Gray Spirit (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk. 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The series turns lighter	This book turns to the lighter side of character development. To begin with, there is a lot of wit and humour and amusingly dry observations. The author manages that fine blend of presenting a story that is quite serious for those involved but amusing for us. The Defiant side of the story is entirely in this vein, letting us get to know the new major and many minor characters. It concludes with a neatly done action finale. The pacing of the book is very good in the first and last thirds, but the middle third could have advanced the story in a lot less words. On the station side, the last third of the book is much more serious and hard-hitting. When Cardassian-Bajoran negotiations finally start, they go against what the reader might expect, and establish a mystery for later books. The style of the negotiations is not a pleasant one for the characters, and to a certain extent that extends to reading about them. However there is only one part of the book I did not like, the Andorian subplot. The Andorians on the station are disdainfully manipulative and irritatingly neurotic. It is basically impossible to like or sympathize with them. Also, they contribute nothing to the book except to show off the station's new counselor. Shar and his quest, a major feature of the Defiant's story, seems strong enough to me to stand on its own. With everything else happening on the station, and involving more familiar and far more likeable characters, dropping the Andorian story would have improved the book. All in all, this is a good and entertaining story that needed some tightening up and a few less displays of Andorian temper.	2004-08-04
US	40155804	R26A1QZ5CCIP3G	0743445600	25499919	Mission Gamma Book One: Twilight (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk. 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A book of confrontations	This is a book about confrontations between characters, and for some, within them as well. It makes for somewhat unpleasant reading. The book is better written than it is enjoyable. The characterisations are very vivid, and usually very well done. The descriptions are generally also very good, but the author has a tendency to go on at slightly greater length than necessary or useful. The main issue here is the acceptance of Bajor into the Federation, and correspondingly the acceptance of the non-Federation characters into the Federation - or not. The book lays out all the issues the characters have. Unfortunately, the style left me feeling edgy about the characters' fates, rather than looking forward to seeing them resolved, and this is on my second reading and after reading Unity. Also, in the Gamma Quadrant, Commander Vaughn is forced to relive the worst experiences of his life. He has a lot of them, and for my taste the author takes us through a few too many, in too much detail. The climax for his section was also a bit over the top emotionally. With all that said, this is like one of the hard-hitting DS9 episodes: you won't go back to it anytime soon, but if you skip it, you have missed some worthwhile. It is also sets a good foundation for the series as a whole.	2004-08-03
US	40155804	R27FS4TRGYENG6	0743483510	655362764	Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Worlds of Deep Space Nine #1: Cardassia and Andor	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Cardassia story is excellent.	Cardassia Story: The DS9 Relaunch has had a very high standard of writing, and this keeps right up. The characterisations are excellent. The descriptions are extremely emotive and mood-setting. The writing in general is just wonderfully witty. The author perfectly captures Garak's perpetual wit, sarcasm and love of a well-crafted phrase. The only near problem I could find in this story was that the most crucial action in the book is virtually told at second-hand. During the final resolution, most of the writing is a long introspection by Keiko O'Brien. It ends exactly one paragraph short of being too long. It is a good and effective method, at least when the author obviously knows what she is doing, but it also came right to the edge of fading out. Great as it is, it gives the impression that it could somehow have been better. Still, it also meets my most important criteria: I really enjoyed it. This is how Trek should be written.<br /><br />Andor Story: this story is firmly in the teen soap-opera genre. It really does not work for me. The descriptions are generally good, but they often become so word dense they are hard to take in. the characterisations are vivid, but that actually becomes part of the problem. To start with, Shar evaluates his friendship with Prynn and its possibilities in extremely technical terms. Passion and anthropological terminology just do not go together. He spends most of the rest of the story acting straight from his emotions, which is an odd contrast. Prynn, until the obvious sob-story ending, is hyper-emotional as well and also self-centred. The characters are too wrapped up in themselves and their relationship status to generate a lot of sympathy. One of the other major characters even complained about it. That should be a big warning sign to authors: if you have to make the characters complain, why do you think the readers will like it? Originally, this plot was a sub-plot of the major stories in Mission: Gamma. It should have stayed that way, because it was not strong enough to stand on its own.<br /><br />All in all, the Cardassia story was for me well worth the price of the book. The Andor story was a let down, but it might be a good story for people that like the genre.d that way, because it was not strong enough to stand on its own. <br /> <br />All in all, the Cardassia story was for me well worth the price of the book. The Andor story was a let down, but it might be a good story for people that like the genre. <br />	2004-07-30
US	40155804	R2S84SON6PZJMD	0743482980	452599584	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #4: A Time to Harvest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not as suspenseful as it should be	As with the first book, the authors spend the first quarter of the book filling us in on recent Trek history, both the events of the previous books, the Dominion War, and activities at Starfleet. It could probably have been done in half the pages and combined with more interesting content. After that the book becomes much better. The characterisations are good and the action scenes are well done. The pacing of the story is generally effective. There is still a fair amount of historical material, but most of it is relevant and a lot of it is presented character to character, instead of essentially author to reader. There is even one occasion when a character starts giving historical examples and gets told to stop because they don't have the time. However, the book develops one major fault. A critical element of the plot is that undercover operatives are in action, some on the Enterprise. The authors keep jumping to them, telling us who they are impersonating, what they are doing and what their plans are. It would have been far more suspenseful simply not to tell us, and much more dramatic for us to find out who is a spy at the same time as the Enterprise crew. The book is still quite good, it just could have been much better and how is pretty obvious.	2004-07-19
US	40155804	RB8PMX4C5798W	0743482999	488519076	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #3: A Time to Sow	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	The long windedness does not quite obscure a good story	This turns into an intriguing mystery story, but takes forever to get going. There seems to be some disease spreading among Trek authors, compelling them to fill the first third of a book with boring and/or long winded material. Prior to arriving in the Dokaalan system, the authors spend time with each major character, going into great detail on their current feelings and situation. The Data-La Forge scene was good and relevant to the story, but only it and one of the others should have actually been in the book. Including them all was just too much. Also, after the dramatic rescue that is the first non-introspective scene, Troi and Picard immediately have to talk it over. The authors also have a bad tendency to put several paragraphs of reflection between single lines of dialogue. During action scenes, they sometimes call a time out and put in two or three pages of historical exposition. It's rather boring since it goes over Trek history that should be common knowledge, it isn't exactly relevant to the story, and it breaks up the flow of the story and reduces the tension level.<br />Despite all this, this is a good story with a lot of faults rather than the reverse. The characterisations are very good. The long winded scenes are not inaccurate, just long. Not only are the major characters well done, but the relatively minor ones of Kell Perim and Christina Vale are given serious development. Even one-line characters contribute noticeably to the humour or tension of a scene. The action scenes, the exploratory and diplomatic scenes are well described and clear. Most of all, the build up is very well planned. By the end we actually know more or less what the Enterprise's enemies are doing and how, but why and by what group is a mystery. Unlike the first book of this series, I am not only looking forward to the mysteries being revealed, I am actually looking forward to the way it will be written.	2004-04-08
US	40155804	R1XSE7NFBH4J24	0743467663	853255940	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #2: A Time to Die (Star Trek (Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Much more enjoyable than the first book.	After A Time to Be Born I had rather low expectations for this book, and thankfully they were exceeded. The descriptions are good if not as spectacular as Vornholt can do. The characterisations are good, if slightly shallow. Kell Perim and Christina Vale not only get \\"face time\\", in this book they actually have personalities. Wesley Crusher is the major character of this book, and his sections are well done. Vornholt did a very good job integrating his abilities with the rest of the crew. They change the dynamic of how the crew operates, but they don't push the rest of the crew into the background. With that said, Colleen Cabot was overused and it was too much of a shift from her character in the first book. Also, she and Wesley basically meet, then jump in the sack. Their 'relationship' has no emotional depth to interest the reader. Finally, the beginning of the book, dealing with politics and Starfleet Command, really disturbed me. An Admiral basically orders Cabot to prepare to program Picard, and her only objection is that she likes him. Also, at the end, I was left with the impression that Command wants Picard destroyed, and their efforts will be a major subplot of the series. I wish they would drop that. Too late now, I guess.<br />Overall, I did enjoy this book. It is a good mystery and adventure story. It could certainly have been better, but unlike A Time to Be Born, this was actually worth reading.	2004-04-06
US	40155804	R37GBBUEH1FJY7	0345461711	774880550	The Amulet of Power (Lara Croft: Tomb Raider)	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Like a tour of East Africa with Lara	This book is written like a tour of East Africa, with obligatory attempts to kill Lara at every location. The level of detail in the descriptions of the countries, and more to the point the type of details, make it very clear that this author has a vast knowledge of the area. On that side it was a very interesting read. Unfortunately, that's not supposed to be the centre of the book. There is no depth to the presentation of Lara. There was no introspection, almost no effort to present what she was thinking or even feeling. Dave Stern did a great job in this very area in the Cradle of Life novelisation, and this book was supposed to cover an extremely traumatic part of Lara's life, so it was generally quite disappointing in that area. Also, in the fight scenes the author just describes what happens. There is almost no effort to make us feel like Lara's life is threatened. The fight descriptions are pretty good, and certainly clear about what's happening, but there's no tension. In general, the book is very light reading, mildly enjoyable but with almost no memorable moments. The fascinating description of how easy it is to dodge a charging rhino is virtually the only one. Then we get to the climax, which I found rather shocking, certainly in contrast to the light tone of the rest of the book. It actually is a fairly good reason for Lara's angry-at-the-world attitude at the start of The Angel of Darkness game. Then for some strange reason the author has a trivial incident supposedly return Lara to her old self. That was bizarre.<br />I was looking forward to one of my favourite characters appearing in my favourite entertainment medium. If the next book does not have more depth and interest, it will be the last Lara book I bother to consider.	2004-04-06
US	40155804	R25VNZKH8KOKU	067153873X	503134891	Twilight's End (Star Trek, Book 77)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Pure fun	This is a comedy, almost to the point of satirising Star Trek. The background story is actually fairly impressive and intricate. To return their planet to habitability, the population intends to use tens of thousands of impulse drives to spin it up to normal rotation. A terrorist faction has kidnapped the lead engineer, attacked the facilities, and has no qualms about firing on the Enterprise. The descriptions are quite vivid. The action scenes are very clear. Throughout the book there are amusing commentaries on both and also on the characters, particularly by McCoy and Spock about Captain Kirk. The writing is generally light and amusing, although there are some very serious scenes. However, the descriptions in Kirk's section, as he searches for the engineer, seem written more for young adults than for mature readers. As a counter to that, there is a debate between McCoy and Spock over the ethics of the mechanical solution in contrast to a more `natural' biological one. Finally, the last third or so of the book is given to firing the engines and spinning the planet. There are lots of `Trekisms' here: \\"Capt'n, she canna take much more\\", \\"Hold her together, Scotty.\\" The result is a strange but to me very amusing mixture of epic and farce: the dialogue could have been pulled from almost any episode where the Enterprise is in trouble, but instead of the ship they are dealing with a whole planet. It's weird but it works very well. In summary, I would say that this is written in the style of the humour episodes of Deep Space Nine. If you enjoy those you should enjoy this too.	2004-03-13
US	40155804	RGN8TYN1DAK7V	0743400747	103888357	Star Trek - Gemini	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The plot twists are too obvious.	This book is an unfortunate example of an author overreaching himself. There are things he does very well and things he does not. The plot is one of those where the whole situation is not revealed until the very end of the book, and the pacing is well judged. The physical descriptions of scenes are excellent, and sometimes downright elegant. The author is also very good at generating an emotional reaction to his descriptions. Apart from those areas he has some problems. First off, Kirk's nephew Peter was included here, and the main reason seems to be to portray Kirk as feeling his age and generally acting a bit off what we normally see. Even before that, the author portrays Kirk as unable to fit in with his younger crew and also as a bit of a gloryhound. I found it inappropriate for both the book and the character. On a more serious note, the dialogue is not very good. For some reason the author's emotive skills abandon him whenever characters open their mouths. It does not help that the contrast between the almost juvenile dialogue and the quality of the descriptions around it is so strong. The last criticism is about the plot twists: I could see them coming a mile away. With an obvious plot twist, you either have to keep the pace up so high the audience forgets it's  coming, or do the twist with such style the audience doesn't care. This author seems to have thought that they were not obvious and expected his following `revelation' scenes to be a surprise, which they were not. It really lowered the enjoyment level of the book for me, even though the climax of the book finally has a genuinely unexpected plot twist, two in fact, which were actually well done. All in all, I can only recommend this book for other people who generally read their Trek books more than once. It reads better the second time, since you know what happens anyway.	2004-03-13
US	40155804	R30ADFV5NSMD8U	0743467655	367000973	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #1: A Time to Be Born (Star Trek (Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	2	9	10	N	Y	First it's boring then it's irritating	This is a two-part story. In the first half the Enterprise is operating in a \\"haunted\\" battle site with some strange new Federation allies. The second half is a legal drama story, as Starfleet Command hangs Picard out to dry to appease those new allies. The second half of the book must be the main story for the second book as it got all of the writer's attention. The descriptions in the first half are flat and boring. The actions and speech of the Enterprise crew are written the same way. Other characters are well-written, making for a bad contrast with the crew. Then suddenly everything changes. We get a vivid description of a very dramatic scene, and an equally vivid and compelling emotional reaction from an Enterprise crewmember. With a rather nasty irony, it's Data and his artificially generated emotions. After that, the descriptions are vivid and interesting and the Enterprise crew suddenly have personalities again. However, for me at least, it's now the plot that becomes irritating. First off, it is explicitly stated to Picard - who astonishingly raises no objections - that his trial will be determined solely on how it affects the Federation's relationship with the new aliens. Truth is irrelevant. Second, we are told the Federation is disintegrating as members leave because `they feel the Federation cannot defend them.' The Federation defeated the Borg and the Dominion and made an alliance with the Romulans, and planetary governments feel threatened *now*? If that is the central theme of the \\"A Time to...\\" series than I am not going to enjoy it as it makes no sense to me. For this book in particular, perhaps the best summary is to say that I want to find out the solutions to the aliens' behaviour and the ship graveyard, but I don't really want to read the next book to do so.	2004-02-23
US	40155804	R1GS8NLVQECOJ	0671880454	18090860	Blaze of Glory (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 34)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good action-thriller	This is a Cold War style espionage thriller, with a lot of action. The Enterprise is brought in to, on the surface, capture or destroy a pirate ship. The real situation is far more complex: the new ruler and his cronies are corrupt and power hungry and doing deals with the Romulans. There are two story lines: Picard and the Enterprise investigate the situation, which becomes protecting political figures from attack, while Riker, Geordi and the local Lt. Dorn infiltrate the pirate crew. The descriptions and action scenes are quite good, although the space battles are overly simplified for my taste. Picard's story is an intricate political adventure that was quite intriguing to follow, both in terms of the details of the scheme he unravelled and how he did it. Picard is unusually adventurous in this book. Both his and Riker's stories involved vivid and, for this author, unusually distinctive characters. That can also be a bit of a drawback, because Lt. Dorn is not a very likeable character, and it is very hard to sympathise with her issues. In general, there is a swashbuckling feel to this book, both in Riker's story and also a bit in how Picard behaves. I found it quite entertaining, both in terms of the complexity of the political schemes and style of the general action.	2004-02-07
US	40155804	R3VVM5YFP1P7X1	0671879979	263658182	The Romulan Stratagem (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 35)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too slow-paced for me	This story is of a type more often found in the Original Series: the Federation and one of its enemies are competing directly for the allegiance of a newly star-faring civilisation, the Elohsians. Both sides try to show their best features, with the Romulans of course doing their bit to sabotage the Enterprise crew. The premise is really good but the author fails to make a good story out of it. Much of the early book is taken up with conferences and banquets and such, where the Romulans and the Elohsians do their best to needle and provoke the Enterprise crew, and they in turn do their best not to show how irritated they generally are. I don't know whether it's excess empathy with the crew, but I did not enjoy these scenes any more than they generally do. The Elohsians are also rather arrogant and conceited. You expect and get that from the Romulans too, and both together were too much. The book later moves on to explosions and some fighting, and this reveals that the author's writing style is just too flat, too uninteresting for the events he is presenting. To top it all off, there is a sub-plot involving Ro Laren, intended mostly for comic relief. It has long winded scenes too, and the humorous events do not make up for the amount of time spent getting to them, let alone provide a good counterpoint to the rest of the book. While some of the book is good, overall the entertainment value is just too low to be worth reading.	2004-02-07
US	40155804	R212G2H8I3YQ8H	0671568329	113544630	Intellivore (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 45)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Great writing but not spooky enough	The central plot for this book is more like something in the Original Series: the Enterprise encounters an interstellar monster and must destroy it. The author really created an epic foe for the Enterprise. Her writing is on her as usual high level. The descriptions of scenes and events are very clear. The action scenes are very clear and vividly described, and make for exciting reading. The language the characters use is a little strange though. This author just gets a bit too poetic when writing for the Next Generation crew. On a somewhat similar note, one flaw I found in this book was that the tension level, considering the magnitude of the enemy the Enterprise is facing and some of the things it does, was definitely lacking. Diane Duane showed in Dark Mirror that she could create a very tense, creepy atmosphere, but for some reason she neglected to do so here. Part of that flaw is her treatment of the monster's victims. Either they are people that we have little sympathy for, or their deaths are held at a distance from the reader, as though deliberately not to have too much impact. Instead, we get too little. On the plus side, this book also describes the lifestyle and some of the work of Starfleet's dedicated deep space explorers, which I found very interesting. All in all this is a very entertaining and well written book. A ghost story just should have been spookier, that's all.	2004-02-02
US	40155804	R3BFRS1EXWOLOX	0671797468	268074402	The Romulan Prize (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 26)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A solid action story and a mental chess game	The premise for this book is very interesting: the Romulans capture the Enterprise and take it to explore what they believe is a secret Federation outpost in the Neutral Zone. Picard and his crew must outwit their captors and deal with a first contact in the Neutral Zone. The overall writing quality is rather mixed. The descriptions are excellent. The fight between Riker and the Romulan first officer was very clear, very vivid, and had lots of interesting commentary on various martial arts styles. The non-main characters tend to be rather generic but vividly described. The two balance each other out for a generally good result. The Romulan captain, on the other hand, has more background and more distinctiveness. He and Picard make a good pair of protagonists. Finally, the book also gives us a good look at how the Romulan military and aristocracy behave and interact with each other. Overall this is a solid action story, with a lot of interesting subplots and details. I enjoy reading it.	2004-02-02
US	40155804	R2A6XMSAVIGXQA	1582369003	817337895	Star Trek Roleplaying Game: Player's Guide	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Great buy for this collector	First, let me say that I bought this for the Trek content and for inspiration as a writer and may never play the game. I have played some previous RPGs (none Trek) so I can still evaluate it as one - I hope. Anyway, this appears to be a complete player's guide. Unlike some games, everything you need is here, and sourcebooks are extras not essentials. There are ten starting species to play: Humans, Bajorans, Betazoids, Cardassians, Klingons, Ferengi, Trill, Vulcans, Talaxians and Ocampans. Each matches what we have seen in the show in their attribute modifiers and special abilities, although Vulcans have so many that some were cut. The action is done by rolling dice once, adding your character's skill score, bonuses and penalties and then comparing the result to the number needed for success. Everything your characters can do is expressed in a skill, and the range of skill coverage is very good. Characters also have edges and flaws, character traits that help define their personalities and affect their skills. Finally, each character also has Courage points. These represent heroic action and you use them to add to your rolls, either to prevent failure or boost the level of your success. (I would love this feature as a player.) There are seven basic professions: Diplomat, Merchant, Mystic, Rogue, Scientist, Soldier and Starship Officer. There are elite starship officer professions for every one we have seen in the shows. There are other elite professions that can be entered by anyone meeting their prerequisites. This system manages transfers like Spock from Science Officer to Commander to Ambassador and then probably either Envoy or Spy, all as a Starship Officer. All in all, the system really captures the feel of Star Trek characters.<br />The guide has a number of flaws. Least annoying first, there are a number of canon errors, which is surprising considering how much trivia the Decipher staff know about Star Trek. It was enough to bother me a little, so some fellow Trek reviewers may be driven crazy by it. As has been mentioned in most reviews (such as on rpg.net) the chapter and section order is really bad. The sections on character mechanics and level advancement should have been consolidated and in front. Character Development should probably have been in front of Professions, since you would use them in that order, and the non-starship elite professions should have followed the basic professions. The worst flaws are outright errors in presenting the mechanics of the game. There are edges listed in training that were renamed or eliminated by the time the Traits chapter was written. There are errors in the examples supposed to clarify how the game works. The level advancement rules are sometimes unclear. The Starship Duty ability is, according to the FAQ on the web, importantly more limited than it reads in the Guide. This needed a much more thorough editing before printing.<br />These problems are irritating, but they are fortunately simple to resolve. The character generation system and the skill test system are solid and very simple to implement. The guide also explicitly states that the players can create their own skills and edges, and even rules for doing so, and that the Narrator can change the type of skill test as he sees fit, if necessary. Should I ever choose to play, I would be very happy to use this system. As a collector, the insight into the skills and abilities of the character types, especially the elite professions, was worth the price. Also, nearly a third of the guide is given to chapters on equipment, starships, the galaxy and the Federation. Those sections were really interesting and informative. As a player I would give this a four for the errors, but as a collector I give it five stars.Trek reviewers may be driven crazy by it. As has been mentioned in most reviews (such as on rpg.net) the chapter and section order is really bad. The sections on character mechanics and level advancement should have been consolidated and in front. Character Development should probably have been in front of Professions, since you would use them in that order, and the non-starship elite professions should have followed the basic professions. The worst flaws are outright errors in presenting the mechanics of the game. There are edges listed in training that were renamed or eliminated by the time the Traits chapter was written. There are errors in the examples supposed to clarify how the game works. The level advancement rules are sometimes unclear. The Starship Duty ability is, according to the FAQ on the web, importantly more limited than it reads in the Guide. This needed a much more thorough editing before printing.<br />These problems are irritating, but they are fortunately simple to resolve. The character generation system and the skill test system are solid and very simple to implement. The guide also explicitly states that the players can create their own skills and edges, and even rules for doing so, and that the Narrator can change the type of skill test as he sees fit, if necessary. Should I ever choose to play, I would be very happy to use this system. As a collector, the insight into the skills and abilities of the character types, especially the elite professions, was worth the price. Also, nearly a third of the guide is given to chapters on equipment, starships, the galaxy and the Federation. Those sections were really interesting and informative. As a player I would give this a four for the errors, but as a collector I give it five stars.	2004-01-21
US	40155804	R3HTPFFHU4LGJ	1582369046	801092851	Star Trek Roleplaying Game : Starfleet Operations Manual	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Slim but definitely worth it	Let me point out that I am a collector, not a player. I found this a really good read, and I think players would enjoy it even more, even at less than a hundred pages. On the technical side, there is a chapter that demonstrates specific skill use for Starfleet officers and introduces new skills, including combat skills like fencing, martial arts and Original Series brawling. There is another chapter on new abilities for Starfleet officers, which at least doubles the numbers, and includes much better packages for developing advanced characters, including traits. There are chapters on equipment and starships. These really capture the feel of Starfleet officers, especially the Original Series, at least in skills. There are also eight more species: Bolians, Centaurans, Deltans, Grazerites, Regulans, Tellarites, Tiburons and Zaldans. On the information side, there is a chapter on standard mission types and starship operations, a chapter on fleet organisation and history, and the starship section contains a lot of information on individual ships. There is also a section on starbases, their positions, characteristics and use. This all made fascinating reading. There is an amazing amount of information on Starfleet, through history, operationally and for interesting places crammed into this thin book. Also, there were very few technical flaws this time. In contrast to the Player's Guide, the chapter layout made a lot of sense. The only important (or at least obvious) flaw is that the table for the settings of the `isomagnetic disintegrator' is missing.	2004-01-21
US	40155804	R30E18AXEISCL0	0743464079	581648121	Catalyst of Sorrows: Lost Era 2360 (Star Trek: the Lost Era)	Books	5	16	20	N	Y	Truly excellent	This is an excellently written, thoroughly enjoyable book. The descriptions are great. The pacing is well judged. There is a lot of character reflection, but almost entirely mixed with the action. The characterisations are incredible. Personally I thought Uhura rather than Zetha was the strongest and most vivid, but all of them were excellent. Uhura and Zetha were on the level of the depiction of Data in Jeffrey Lang's Immortal Coil. This book is also epic in scope: elements from Uhura's century of service in Starfleet, potential war between the Federation and the Romulan Empire, and the key event in the Romulans' past responsible for shaping their entire cultural development. I have two minor faults. One is that Cretak's story is set chronologically before the events in the prologue, but is written so that it seems concurrent with the main story, which confused me a little. The other is that this is about the investigation of a lethal virus, yet there seemed no atmosphere of urgency or tension in the writing. Finally, the book is absolutely full of Star Trek references, from every series and an amazing number of books, but they are all seamlessly woven into the story. There is no feeling that scenes were written just to make such references. In summary, this is a fantastic book, and it is already my provisional favourite for 2004.	2004-01-16
US	40155804	R1226WMBA1GFSJ	0671042114	81156393	Tooth and Claw (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 60)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining and Good	This is well written and very entertaining. The descriptions are very clear and vivid. There is a lot of action. The dialogue is great and the personal interaction is wonderful, especially the private commentaries and evaluations the characters make of each other. Those characters are very well depicted. Also, the alien cultures are unusually well depicted. There is a definite feeling that the Fandrean culture has great depth and we and the characters are only seeing a little of it. The Tsorans on the other hand seem shallow, not for lack of author talent, but because they are so obsessed with prestige and appearance that their culture has lost some of its original depth and content. All in all, this is a great and very entertaining book.	2004-01-16
US	40155804	R2G5MCR8JLKJIK	0671885618	224626894	Station Rage (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 13)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of action and surprising depth	This is a book with a lot of combat, hand to hand and ship to ship. The descriptions, in general and of the action specifically, are good and quite vivid. The character interaction is very good. The characterisation and writing in general are good but a bit odd. The actions and behaviour of the characters fit, but the dialogue and internal thinking are not how the DS9 crew talk. It's not overdone in this particular book, but noteworthy. There are also odd little mistakes, like the Infirmary supposedly not being on the Promenade. That all aside, the action in this book is well thought out, both in terms of writing and in terms of planning and execution by the characters. It is a real battle of minds between Sisko and the leader of the station's invaders. This is a great action book and with more depth than one would expect.	2004-01-16
US	40155804	R12Q0MHZLYIDRL	0671865714	466516724	Here There Be Dragons (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 28)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Light Entertainment	This book is written in a B-grade movie style. The characters are depicted in exaggerated fashion. The author never goes over the top in his depictions, but Worf comes rather close. The way it is done is still quite entertaining. The general writing is good. The descriptions are quite vivid and the combat scenes detailed and clear. The setting is epic: Enterprise goes inside of a stellar cloud, a feat made possible by Preserver technology. The action, in contrast, is swords and sorcery style. Riker and Troi investigate a medieval town and accompanying castle, while Picard and Data face off against a dragon. Then the Preserver element comes in for the sorcery section. It's definitely an unusual style of story, but interesting and fun reading.	2004-01-16
US	40155804	R36I2TNOFQTBAZ	074341926X	243083762	A Hard Rain (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Shallow but enjoyable	This book is written in a fairly shallow, somewhat tongue-in-cheek fashion. With this author it is hard to tell if that shallow style is deliberate or not. Anyway, this does not read as a really serious or tense book, despite the situation the Enterprise is in. However it is definitely enjoyable. We have never had a chance to see Picard in the world of Dixon Hill for an extensive amount of time. Regardless of the circumstances, Picard is definitely enjoying the chance to spend so much time there. The 1930s detective genre is an interesting setting in itself. The characters are shallow, but they work well as a part of the story. There is also simply an enormous amount of action, of a very unusual type for the Next Generation: gunfights and shoot-outs. Finally, it is actually quite a mystery, and Picard is forced to do some hard deduction at the end, when all his leads seem broken, to finally solve it. I quite enjoyed it.	2004-01-14
US	40155804	R172UIRHZI58F0	0671708368	979029690	Fortune's Light (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 15)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A very enjoyable detective story	This a detective style story: running down leads, sorting true from false clues, and getting shot at or otherwise threatened all along. I usually have various complaints about Friedman's writing style, but not for this one. There is a lot of action, mostly travel and questioning people, with some combat, and all of it is well told. The knife fight is especially good. The descriptions in general are very good, very clear. The characters are vivid and with plenty of depth. Riker's female Impriman partner is a strong, well developed character, not as devious but with more common sense. There is a fair amount of humour, and a couple of scenes are real gems. The plot of the story is interesting and turns out to be surprisingly intricate. The pacing at which the plot is revealed is well judged. In addition, we are given the back story of Riker's original visit to the planet at nicely judged key points in the development of the main plot. All in all, this is a very good and enjoyable story.	2004-01-14
US	40155804	R2U9GJZWUN8CSH	0743418425	12307735	Star Trek: The Starfleet Survival Guide	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Remarkably good reading	I used to have a very simple definition of a textbook: a book that contains a great deal of factual information, but puts you to sleep while attempting to absorb it. This totally fails to meet the second criteria (unlike, for instance, the TNG Technical Manual). Essentially, this is a collection of Trek trivia, in terms of equipment, creatures, and medical techniques, from the shows. However, from the style it is written in one can clearly picture a Starfleet officer actually reading and using this Guide. The descriptions are very clear, concise and interesting. One of them - Section 1.11, \\"Surviving Atmospheric Re-entry in a Pressure Suit\\" - is downright compelling reading. The mental picture of each step is incredibly vivid, and so involving that one can actually feel worried when reading the fatal consequences of anything going wrong. This is a brilliant piece of writing and extremely entertaining. For someone starting to collect Trek trivia books and/or manuals, this is definitely the one to recommend buying first.	2004-01-12
US	40155804	R2TCBIZ5DIREI6	0671779583	352846865	The Disinherited (Star Trek, Book 59)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow in places but generally good	This is a decidedly unusually Original Series book in that it involves one of the crew working on another Federation starship. That section, Uhura's, is the rather slow section of the book. It is a combination of investigation and personal drama. The whole section is not very well written. The Kirk and Chekov stories on the Enterprise are much more interesting. The Chekov story is a drama, and is fairly well written and has a good characterisation of Chekov. The Kirk story, the main one for the Enterprise, is a combination of investigation and combat. The combat scenes are quite well done. For the rest of it, the depiction of the characters is reasonably good. The dialogue for this section is generally quite good, and there are several really good scenes. I seem to have made this book out as less satisfying than I actually find it. It is good entertainment, with the majority of the book more than making up for the slow pace of Uhura's section. It's just a little too obvious that different authors wrote different sections of the text.	2004-01-12
US	40155804	R1S66DTJU9D13C	0743464095	325196479	Deny Thy Father: Lost Era 2355-2357 (Star Trek: the Lost Era)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Surprisingly entertaining.	My expectations for this book, after reading the reviews here and with the Lost Era series being 2 for 4, were not high. I found this to be good reading, though not spectacular. Obviously the book follows two stories, Kyle's and Will's. Will's story is a personal drama, without the dramatic Academy tests or conspiracies that Original Series books set there have. Still, I found it to be a well written, interesting, and entertaining depiction of Will Riker at that time. I don't really like Will Riker all that much as a TNG character, so making him interesting for me was a good achievement on the author's part. The cadets are rather clich&eacute;d, but apart from the eternally patient girlfriend I've known people just like them, and they work well as part of Will's story. Kyle's story has much more action in its beginning and end. The descriptions there and overall are very well done. This author understands how to make long descriptive passages interesting. The middle of Kyle's story was essentially filler, as Kyle himself puts it, to prepare him for the end of the story. It was entertaining and well done, but it had almost nothing to do with the central plot of Kyle's story. I would have preferred more time on the conspiracy. I did quite enjoy the resolution of that. It's refreshing, after \\"Serpents Among the Ruins\\", to see a murderous conspiracy be viewed by Starfleet Command as something to stop. All in all, I found this to be an enjoyable read. Nothing was spectacularly good, but lately just enjoyable has been too much for some Trek authors.	2004-01-12
US	40155804	R3NVLEBCLMTJ3V	067174352X	250420476	The Wounded Sky (Star Trek, No 13)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Often weird but the dialogue is wonderful	The Enterprise is field-testing a device that can theoretically take it anywhere in the Universe. However, the chief side effect is that the Universe begins to unravel, and another Universe intrudes into ours. Some sections of this book just exceed my level of `suspension of disbelief' for Star Trek. The scientific rationale behind the device is one of them. The other is in the concluding section of the book, where the crew comes to the boundary with the other Universe. Their `best natures' are allowed to show through, and the results are sometimes unbelievably strange. That all said, the writing is very good, the descriptions are great, and the one combat scene is very theatrical and fun reading. The dialogue though is where the book really shines. It is excellent, and almost always humorous, no matter the situation, but also profound when required. The philosophical/scientific debates are good reading, even if I don't agree with them. This is well written and quite entertaining book.	2004-01-12
US	40155804	R2AVGT52J0B8JK	0671501070	842047866	Dragon's Honor (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 38)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Just for fun	There is a play by Gilbert &amp; Sullivan, the Mikado, based on China but in the style of Pirates of Penzance. This is a Star Trek style adaptation of it. All of the Next Gen regulars are involved, although Geordi's part is quite limited. The situations in themselves are actually quite reasonable, but then taken to absurd limits. The results are hilarious. Some of the situations: Picard is &quot;honoured&quot; by sharing favourite foods with the Dragon Emperor, foods that everyone but that Emperor considers offal. Riker attends the bachelor party, where the guests are more inclined to have funerals for each other the next day. Dr. Crusher ends up, to quote: playing den mother at a kung fu slumber party. Data, onboard Enterprise, engages the commander of the approaching alien fleet in what the Old Norse called a flyting: an insult contest. The Old Norse flytings were long, nasty, inventive and incredibly amusing, and they would have loved Data's performance. That was the best part of this very funny book.	2004-01-12
US	40155804	R3VVFKU07GDU9Q	0743464974	106863737	The Case of the Colonist's Corpse: A Sam Cogley Mystery (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	2	7	10	N	Y	Your Honour, I find this book to be generic	The authors took a generic murder-mystery scenario, added phasers, Klingons and the Enterprise, and called it a Star Trek book. What Sam Cogley does and says is interesting and entertaining. All the other characters in the book are badly done. Cogley's assistants are fairly generic: the information finder and the tough guy. The human colonists are very generic. The murder victim, Latham, is the only decent person. Of the suspects, there is the shrewish, self-centred wife, her money-hungry lover, the guy whose lover Latham turned over to the Klingons, and the money-hungry, thuggish miner. They are all greedy, selfish and violent. I think there is considerable, unintended symbolism in the murder victim being the only person I consider to represent what enlightened Federation citizens should be like. Less philosophically, everyone but Cogley is one-dimensional. Even the prosecutor Areel Shaw, who was in the original episode, is reduced to one dimension: she wants to win just for revenge on Cogley. In addition, the authors are fond of describing people at a length far exceeding the interest value of the writing, and the quality of the writing in general is poor. The action scenes need some serious work. To top it all off, I spotted the real murderer right away.<br />So, as a Star Trek fan, I am not happy. As a mystery fan, I am not happy. As someone who is willing to watch courtroom dramas if they are high quality and have interesting philosophical content, I am not happy. That is three different genres it has disappointed me in. Finally, in the most important category: as someone who reads fiction for the purpose of entertainment, I am disappointed with this book.	2004-01-10
US	40155804	R1S01MIR7I3D1K	067179325X	38578832	The Devil's Heart (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An excellent quest	This is a reverse quest in the tradition of the Lord of the Rings: Picard gains possession of an artefact that gives its wielder power over time, but will eventually betray him to his death, and every power in the Quadrant comes after the Enterprise to seize the artefact. In addition, we are shown how Trek ancient history has (supposedly) revolved around this artefact, including the rise and fall of the Iconians, Surak of Vulcan, the Romulan Empire, the Klingon Empire and the great plague on Andor. The tone of this book is quite sombre, but uniquely among Trek authors the book is still a very enjoyable read despite that. The quality of the writing is excellent. The descriptions and characterisations are very good, and the whole Enterprise cast has good roles in this. The book specific characters are well done also. There are many short sequences of people and action beyond the Enterprise and all are well done. The author captures the air of a truly epic quest, both in contemporary scope and through time. This is an excellent and thoroughly enjoyable book.	2004-01-09
US	40155804	R390HJTOEO8WP0	0671795724	563971325	Shell Game (Star Trek, Book 63)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good Trek ghost story	In this, an Enterprise landing party explores a lifeless space station and experiences eerie, seemingly ghostly phenomena, while the Enterprise itself slowly loses power. The author does an excellent job of maintaining the spooky, tense atmosphere throughout the story. The writing is generally quite good. The descriptions are excellent and the action scenes as various people get into trouble very well done. The characterisation and dialogue is great, McCoy in particular having some classic commentary and wit. The writing in general does have some oddities. In particular, the author uses the occasional tautology, and at least one description (Kirk in a falling turbolift) is not as clear as it should be. Every so often the author gets a little long-winded with the descriptions. Those little quirks aside, this is a generally well written and entertaining story.	2004-01-09
US	40155804	R1APRIX01Y7IJ7	0671787551	280145491	Reunion (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the best Trek books	The plot: the Enterprise is trapped in a subspace anomaly while one of the Stargazer survivors stalks the others. One of the major story lines is the murder-mystery side. It is very light on investigation, mostly consisting of action scenes of considerable variety. The other major component is the stories from the Stargazer days. The reason it all works is simple: quality of writing and characterisation. This author's writing is usually rather flat, particularly in dialogue and characterisation. This time, he presents the Stargazer crew as though they are as fully developed as any of the TNG regulars. The portrayals are strong and vivid enough that by the time of the first murder attempt, you already care about whether the characters survive it. The quality of writing in general is very high. The Stargazer stories here are better written and more interesting than any of the Stargazer books, except The Valiant. The `treknobabble' side to getting out of the subspace anomaly is only a minor part of the story, but also very well presented. All in all, the quality of this book and the entertainment value it provides is extremely high.	2004-01-09
US	40155804	R1XC5C5GLX1EKI	0671700103	453468531	The Eyes of the Beholders (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 13)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Should be great but is not	This should be a great book, considering the author and the basic premise, but it is not. The Enterprise is investigating a strange ship that emits a field that drives people lethally insane by forcing them to relive their most emotional moments, usually terrible ones, in their dreams. That is the main plot, but there are three different sub-plots: the Vulcan Dr. Selar and her Andorian patient, accounts of the dreams the main characters have, and Data's efforts writing. There are many short stories throughout the book, and I generally find them so depressing that I just skip them. The main tone of the book is really sombre and it is difficult to find areas that are really entertaining to read. Data's writing efforts, there to provide a little comic relief, don't help either. The example of his writing we are given is deliberately really bad, the amusement from people being unwilling to tell Data so is pretty small, and the conclusion of this sub-story is depressing too. The sections that deal with the actual investigation of the ship are quite entertaining and the away team mission is by far the best part of this book. Those sections are worth reading, but the book as a whole is not.	2004-01-09
US	40155804	RZCSAX870QKUH	0743470737	87376754	Star Trek: Deep Space Nine: Prophecy and Change Anthology	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Excellent writing but depressing reading.	These stories are basically like novelisations of really good episodes of the show. Everything that made the show worth watching is here. The writing is consistently of very high quality, the characterisations are perfect, and the descriptions are good. The stories are almost entirely fill-in-the-blank stories, covering things that were not covered in the show but must have taken place in some way. As such, I think this collection is for DS9 fans. Whether people unfamiliar with the shows characters and events would understand it or enjoy it so much I don't know. I do have one issue with this anthology, however: it's depressing. The stories start out very serious and when they hit the Dominion War they turned depressing as well. It might be appropriate for the period but it's not fun to read. The TV series was always careful to have one light or humorous episode after two or three very serious ones. This collection really needed at least one light-hearted story. I would definitely recommend this to all DS9 fans, but don't read it right through like I tried to do. The stories are too intense for that.	2004-01-09
US	40155804	R3CTB1UEJOYVF8	0671709704	330496005	Boogeymen (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 17)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great light entertainment	This is probably my favourite in Next Generation reading for light entertainment. Wesley Crusher has designed imaginary aliens for use in holodeck simulations. One of Picard's old friends, Baldwin, has come on board with the intention of erasing his (Baldwin's) existence, starting with a computer virus. The two programs get together and cause havoc, first on the holodeck and then throughout the ship. The Enterprise is also investigating an alien group that cause some genuinely paranormal events to happen aboard ship.<br />This is written to be light entertainment and it works very well. The events that occur and the way they are written are funny, to the reader at least. The descriptions of the events are very good, although they are usually done with subjective commentary that comes close to getting in the way. The characters are generally a bit less serious than normally portrayed, but never to the point of diminishing them.	2004-01-08
US	40155804	R20INRR0JRF56S	0671568973	491234156	Saratoga (Star Trek Deep Space Nine, No 18)	Books	1	1	4	N	N	No entertainment value	This book can be summed up in one word: boring. The plot is that some of the Saratoga survivors and the DS9 crew are on the Defiant on their way to the commissioning of a new Saratoga. They are trapped in a spatial anomaly by a saboteur aboard. It should have been an interesting story, but it is quite obvious that the DS9 crew have the situation completely under control and are pretending otherwise to reveal the traitor. There is no tension to the wait. The characterisations of the Saratoga survivors are all right but not memorable, except for their ship's counsellor. She's nuts, and you can see the plot `twist' in her story from a mile away. The twist is also just stupid in its own right. This book had no entertainment value for me. I can only recommend it as a gift for a DS9 fan you don't actually like.	2004-01-08
US	40155804	R3N9135D53M9OP	0671684035	936360643	Enemy Unseen (Star Trek, Book 51)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An intricate story	This has a fairly involved story. The Enterprise is hosting an alien delegation and the Federation negotiating team. The aliens have a complex honour system that results in some very amusing misunderstandings. The Federation team includes a spy attempting to sabotage the negotiations, and the alien delegation has another spy simply attempting to wipe them out, with little concern for the Enterprise crew. Essentially this is a murder mystery with a diplomatic subplot. The characters are very strong, well described and vividly written, although only one of the Enterprise regulars, Admiral Kirk, is a major character in the story. One problem I can see is that the character interaction gets so intricate that it might not appeal to people preferring more straightforward presentation. Also, the author's language is fairly intricate in itself. Finally, it is definitely written for a mature audience.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	R2Z6M32WECD73H	0671792369	155881122	War Drums (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 23)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Racism in the 24th Century	The setting is this: a group of human colonists is under attack by a group of strangely primitive Klingons. The Enterprise crew quickly discovers that the humans that the humans have gone from a siege mentality to outright racism and brutality. Worf, Troi and Data go to interact with the Klingons and stop the attacks, while Ro Laren monitors an environmental problem from the colonists' base and tries to stop them from doing anything stupid. The Enterprise leaves, Ro fails, and the away team discovers the hard way that the human leader has learned that fear of the other can be used to empower a dictatorship. Things get worse from there.<br />The way the Enterprise characters are portrayed never seems an exact match for the show - Worf smiles a lot, for one thing - but the characters are still more than appealing enough. The writing quality in general is quite high. The racism and brutality of the colonists, and the Klingons as well, is blunt enough to be clear but rare enough not to make the book depressing. The moral messages are clear because they are obvious. The author never lectures us on them, either directly or through preachy characters (apart from the foreword, anyway). The entertainment value of this book is very high.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	RIZ6KNVYZOZ7L	067170561X	237543518	Contamination (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 16)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great murder mystery-action book.	The first half of this book is a murder mystery. Worf and Troi are trying to find the killer and getting nowhere. It might irritate them, but it is very well plotted and written and entertaining for us. Then the action starts: more murders, attempted murders, and a hijacking. Then we go to a trial, which of course has the wrong person accused. Worf finally figures it all out, and gets kidnapped. More action ensues. The action and character interaction and the trial are all very well done and immensely entertaining. This is one of my favourites in the Next Generation books.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	R2Q0BE6011COGR	0671652273	422377554	Uhura's Song (Star Trek, No 21)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of my favourites	The Enterprise crew are searching for the cure to a devastating disease. First they have to find the planet that may have the cure through ancient songs and legends. Then they make First Contact with the inhabitants and must get to know them and earn their trust. Finally they undertake a ritual Walk through deep forest to get the information they need. The writing in general is great and the descriptions are excellent. The core of the book is the character interaction and dialogue. That is fantastic, with great wit and humour and insight, by the characters and the author. This book reaches the level of what I consider to be the funniest scene in all of Trek, TV, movies and books, and it achieves it by wit - that and a wonderful mental image. The closest modern equivalent in style would probably be DeCandido's Diplomatic Implausibility. If you enjoyed that you may want to consider this as well.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	R16ZP1T0IA5YAL	0743463838	176039067	3: The Genesis Wave Book Three (Star Trek: the Next Generation)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A real letdown after the first two books.	The DS9 series had a practice of showing a humorous, light entertainment episode after two or three very serious ones. I am not sure the author intended it, but he seems to have tried to do that and failed with the third book in his series. The Enterprise crew barely has an impact on the main section of the plot, and the seduction of Picard by a Romulan Commander is way over the top. The problem with side-lining the Enterprise characters is that the author's new characters, with the exception of the Ferengi, aren't very well done or interesting. Also, most of their action is undercover stuff, but it is so badly done and ridiculously written that it just comes off as a farce. There is also a sub-plot featuring a Romulan and a Vulcan that is annoyingly over-emotional, strange as that may sound. The sections featuring Admiral Nechayev as a starship commander are thankfully good but too few. Finally, the book ends with a metaphysical incident that I found really disturbing: our galaxy experiences a moment of total peace and harmony as Genesis kills an alternate, sentient universe. All in all, the entertainment value of this book was quite low, especially compared to its predecessors.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	R3VBARCIEYDT7Y	0671785540	196342352	Diplomatic Implausibility (Star Trek The Next Generation, No 61)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderfully Entertaining	This may be DeCandido's best book so far. The plot is intricate: Worf has to find a middle path between the demands for independence of the natives and the political necessity of keeping the Klingon Empire intact. The Captain of the Gorkon doesn't trust him, the local governor is a ruthless, arrogant incompetent, and the natives are less than ecstatic to discover the Federation representative is a Klingon. There is a fair amount of action scenes in this book, both space and ground combat, and they are very good, although not to the level of the best in the Gorkon books. The dialogue and the character interaction are where the book really shines. The language is witty and incisive and wonderfully entertaining. All the characters are vividly and thoroughly portrayed, including several that lack such vividness in the Gorkon series.	2004-01-07
US	40155804	R3O481CSZSM4BN	0671880446	677710933	The Patrian Transgression (Star Trek, Book 69)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A familiar Trek plot fairly well told.	The plot in its most basic description is an Original Series staple: the Enterprise is called in to negotiate with one of two warring factions, which the crew end up caught between, and with a Federation ambassador who is more of a hindrance than a help. In this case, the faction that has called in the Federation is the planetary government, and they seek help against rebels. The Enterprise crew quickly learns that the actions of the government are fairly questionable and the opposition of the rebels quite possibly justified. Overall, the book is a combination of investigation and action, mostly on the planet but with one space battle. The writing is good but never really impressive. The characters are well depicted, but not particularly distinctive and the interaction between them somewhat generic. Overall, the story is entertaining, but almost nothing in the book really stands out - apart from the depiction of the government's quite literal \\"thought police\\". That was well done, though disturbing.	2004-01-04
US	40155804	R3BNEDCXD2AZ4J	0671864858	51713512	Possession (Star Trek: The Next Generation, No. 40)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The best of horror-suspense Trek.	This is a sequel to Dillard's Original Series book Demons. The possessing, evil aliens are back and set on taking over the Enterprise and then the galaxy. The writing of this book shows true quality. It has exactly the right mixture of suspense, macabre scenes, action and flashes of humour. It starts out and stays sombre, but without getting morbid and depressing as most of Dillard's books do. The depiction of all the characters is excellent, with the scenes of Picard fighting the influence of the aliens the best of them. The main character of the book is Deanna Troi, and this is one time when she really gets to shine. Picard, Worf, Alexander and Data also have many great scenes. Riker, Crusher and LaForge have only fewer scenes, not lower quality ones. This is an outstanding Next Generation book.	2004-01-04
US	40155804	RVD2GS2FBRHWP	0671883429	225950118	Recovery (Star Trek, Book 73)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Copies Wrath of Khan's plot, but great characters.	The plot of this book is essentially a copy of Wrath of Khan: a madman converts something designed for peace, in this case a hospital ship, into a weapon and Kirk has to stop him while commanding a ship run by cadets. To complicate matters, the rogue ship is full of civilians, including Dr. McCoy, and Kirk's aide Kevin Riley (a major character in the Lost Years series). Unlike Wrath of Khan the book is a thriller, with McCoy and Riley trying to catch the madman and/or stop the ship, while the madman hunts down civilians and eventually (of course) comes after McCoy. The characters, old and new, are excellently depicted. The writing in general is very good. There is a real feeling of tension, and the occasional, good humour scenes are never done to detract from it. The scenes featuring the two cadets with each other come off pretty clich&eacute;d, but their interaction with Kirk or Riley is very well done.	2004-01-04
US	40155804	R246ZE74O1P293	0671795120	19902806	Windows on a Lost World (Star Trek, Book 65)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Trek book with a unique perspective.	This is the story of an archaeological mission that goes spectacularly and uniquely wrong. The crew discover a transporter-like device that converts Kirk, Chekov and several others into the long-dead aliens that originally inhabited the planet. Kirk has to figure out how to contact Spock from inside an alien body while Spock must decipher the alien technology and change the converted crew back before they go insane. The scenes with Kirk in the alien body are very well written and the slow unravelling of the alien society is well paced and depicted. The archaeological investigations of Spock are also written, although others may find them to be lacking in events and with too much time on descriptions. Stories in which the crew actually spend their time in scientific exploration are fairly rare, and this is a very good and detailed one.	2004-01-04
US	40155804	R1IX0H2MNHLRS4	0743448405	244865575	Unity (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Finding what you left behind.	In terms of content this is not as much a conclusion to Avatar as it is to DS9's final episode (\\"What You Leave Behind\\"). It is entertaining, amusing, and sometimes a little moving, but the strength is in the characterisation and the story is a bit thin. Perry's writing is so much in the DS9 style that she even has its problems. The book has a very tense scene close to the start. After that it settles down to an investigation, with a lot of character sub-plots. The atmosphere should be one of tension, but the writing is so true to the characters, so entertaining and often so amusing that the importance of the overall story gets a bit lost. The tension ratchets up as the climax approaches, but it never loses that light-hearted edge. The climax is a deus ex machina in the theatrical sense and some readers may not like it. It fits perfectly in the DS9 context, though, and is well written. The ending of the book caps this \\"season\\", as it were, but also leaves plenty of loose ends for the continuing series.<br />Writing this review forced me to examine this work for flaws and dampened my enthusiasm a little, but not too much. It is not a book that generally grips the reader in anticipation of what happens next, but the writing is very entertaining and has a smoothness of flow that makes the pages pass without notice. If you love the characters of DS9 you will (I hope) enjoy it as much as I did.	2003-12-04
US	40155804	R1PTHP0ZVEKEFD	0743457161	616767174	Star Trek: The Next Generation: I.K.S. Gorkon: Honor Bound (Star Trek: Klingon Empire) (Bk. 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Epic, but not as entertaining as Book 1	This book has essentially two main story lines: the space battle and the ground battles. The long-running space battle is epic and I enjoyed it. The ground combat section I did not really like. I am not sure if it was the author's actual intent, or just the effect of the history books I read before this, but the ground combat had the shade of war instead of duelling: the aura of being a miserable slog, even for Klingons. It wasn't that for this reader, fortunately, but it was not enjoyable. Also, the emphasis was on describing the characters rather than the fighting, and to me that did not fit the circumstances. Finally, what I was afraid of from book 1 appears to be coming true: the author is killing off interesting characters faster than he is introducing new ones. If he insists on doing detailed descriptions of people, they should be more interesting, and more often about characters still alive by the end of the book. All in all, the good features definitely outweigh the bad ones - that space battle was really good - but this book was only very good, not great, and the author can do better.	2003-12-01
US	40155804	RFEYJUNHCXRHB	0743464052	365464158	The Star Trek: The Lost era: 2328-2346: The Art of the Impossible	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Finally, a fantastic Lost Era book.	Lost Era books seem to be divided into two sections of differing quality. I am glad to report that this one is divided into the great first half and the even better second half. My two favourite reading areas are history and Star Trek. The first half, the 2330s section, blends these two brilliantly. The style of the writing is like the author actually had the historical records for this era and profiles of the historical figures, and added a semi-fictional narrative to bring it to life. Similar types would be Clive Cussler's Sea Hunters, Bernard Edwards Return of the Coffin Ships, or, on a fictional note, Tom Clancy, or John M. Ford's The Final Reflection. Except for Ford, DeCandido's writing is better. I absolutely loved it.<br />The second half, in the 2340s, changes to a more conventional action-mystery narrative. To my surprise I actually enjoyed it more than the first half. Part of that was the amount of Trek history it contained. Only part, though, because the writing itself was excellent. I don't think I have enjoyed a new Trek book this much since The Left Hand of Destiny. I highly recommend this to every Trek reader.	2003-11-23
US	40155804	R2DJS4MV1VFVGW	0743457145	280008455	Star Trek: The Next Generation: I.K.S. Gorkon: A Good Day to Die: A Good Day to Die, Book One (Star Trek: Klingon Empire) (Bk. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good Entertainment	This is like a Deep Space Nine comedy episode: the story is really basic, so all the focus is on the action and the characters. The action is very well done. The descriptions are very good. The choice and changing of viewpoint is very well done too. (For instance, we get the viewpoints of the Captain and his opponent in the final combat, and both think their opponent is tough and tenacious but is not as skilled as he thinks.) Four of the main characters, Klag, Kurak, B'Oraq and Leskit, continue to be as vivid, interesting and entertaining as they were in previous books. Toq and Rodek continue to be less interesting. The minor characters are quite well done, but too many and in my opinion the wrong ones die. Character deaths may be appropriate for the setting, but it becomes hard to get interested in any but core characters as a result. That could be a problem for this series. It's a fairly minor drawback for this book, however, and this is good, light entertainment. It also sets the stage for a real epic in the next book.	2003-11-21
US	40155804	R2J2KRK9LIGT0U	0743463757	386633957	Well of Souls	Books	2	10	12	N	Y	Another long-winded Lost Era book	The best way to begin this may be with a guide. This book has 465 pages. Around page 100, there is a good scene. At 200 there is another. Close to 300 the action begins. After that, the book is quite solid, well written and entertaining. However, most of the first three hundred pages consist of long, boring internal monologues by just about every named character in the entire book about how and why their severe mental problems make them anti-social. It's boring, it's irritating, it's pointless - and it just keeps going, one character after another. In the \\"about the author\\" section it says this is her first novel. Unless she improves drastically, she would obviously be better off sticking to short stories. Those in Strange New Worlds were brilliant, so this was a real disappointment.	2003-11-21
US	40155804	R2EOOFT2XSMJ15	0743464036	66986144	Serpents Among the Ruins 2311 (Star Trek: The Lost Era)	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Harriman: the evil Enterprise Captain.	I knew that a book about the \\"Tomed Incident\\" had to be dark. I never expected the Captain of the Enterprise to be the villain.<br />The overall level of writing is in general good, although the author spends too much time with characters alone thinking about things. Most of the action is a type I can really enjoy: the Federation has to defend itself against false charges during negotiations, while the other factions have to deal with their own treacherous political machinations.<br />But in the last third of this book, Harriman becomes a terrorist. He frames the Romulans for the mass murder of Starfleet personnel. He's smug, arrogant, self-righteous, hypocritical - and he even enjoys the violence a little. Even worse, this atrocity is committed with the full knowledge and approval of Starfleet Command. That elevates it beyond terror to State Terror: the deliberate murder of citizens by their own government to allow rule by fear and in this case to get their backing for a war of aggression.<br />This book is in direct contravention to Gene Roddenberry's vision of a bright future for humanity. It is a betrayal and a repudiation of everything that Star Trek stands for. It should never have been published.	2003-11-14
