US	40167923	R2QJU5VIWTET5D	0385424736	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	4	2	3	N	N	All the glamor of the legal profession... NOT!	Rudy Baylor is about to graduate from law school in Memphis.  It's been tough but he's finally there, and he has a great job lined up with a respected local firm.  One of his last classes is legal issues for the aged and infirm, and part of it involves giving free legal help.  It is here that he meets Dot Black, who has a medical insurance policy covering her family.  Her son, Donny Ray, was diagnosed with leukemia, but the company has refused to cover a bone marrow transplant.  Things appear to favor the Blacks, and Rudy has his first client.  And it's a good thing because due to a merger he suddenly finds he no longer has the great job he'd been promised, and ends up working for the sleaziest lawyer in town with a bunch of ambulance chasers.  He's broke and it just gets tougher from there.<br /><br />A very exciting story and full of legal drama.  Plus, being told from Rudy's perspective allows for a very funny sense of sarcasm to come across.  A number of side stories keep it from becoming boring, and keep you guessing what's coming next, even though not everything is tied up all neat and tidy.  And there was a twist at the end that I found especially interesting, but still very satisfying (my book had about 15 blank pages at the end so it kinda fooled me into thinking the end wasn't as near as it really was).	2005-10-11
US	40167923	R10R5KHNSZLVLK	0060742844	432334751	Shockwave: Countdown to Hiroshima	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Horrific and compelling	Mr. Walker takes us through the final three weeks before the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima.  Using personal interviews and extensive research, it is both an exciting ride and a heart-rending account of the victors and those who experienced it's horrors firsthand on the ground.  It made me feel I was watching a car crash: you know what's coming but you can't take your eyes away from it.<br /><br />My only complaint would be the casual characterizations of many of the people involved in the Manhattan Project as unthinking, unfeeling, power-hungry, or as mere \\"tools\\" of their leaders.  At the same time, those who opposed the use of the bomb were portrayed as insightful and open-minded.  But, in contrast, one whole chapter was devoted to explaining why there really was no other choice, and recognizes that there were many factors to the decision, and it wasn't a simple choice.  Overall, it felt like a balanced picture of events, and was certainly a great insight into the events that ended the war.	2005-10-04
US	40167923	R3RDV9MNCE3H7Z	0380977273	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A creepy look at our deepest desires	Best friends Will Holloway and Jim Nightshade were born 2 minutes apart, Will one minute before midnight on Oct 30 and Jim one minute after midnight on Oct 31, and their different personalities reflect that well.  And each is tested in different ways when Cooger & Dark's Pandemonium Shadow Show comes to Green Town, IL shortly before their 14th birthday.  Characters from the carnival compliment the overall creepy atmostphere, from the Dust Witch to the Illustrated Man, Mr. Dark himself.<br /><br />Bradbury's unique writing style perfectly sets the tone for this spooky tale of boyhood and wishes.  While reading it, I was reminded of other characters from newer books, especially Mr. Leland Gaunt, the proprietor of Needful Things, from Stephen King's book.  And while some passages near the end of the book are a bit long-winded, it didn't detract much from a great spooky story, and one with a lot of insight into what it's like to be 13.	2005-10-04
US	40167923	R1YOSBBW31AN5F	B0007DRWJC	62614518	Mamma's Boarding House	Books	4	12	12	N	N	The Fitzgeralds grown older	After the death of Papa, and with the children mostly grown and moving on with their own lives, Mamma decides to take on boarders, not only to support herself but to keep busy.  John is the only one left at home and he changes his plans of going away to school to stay and help his mother.  This is a collection of his stories/memories of that time, one or two of which I think are also told (although a bit differently) in his other books.  And this one explains why you won't find Adenville on any maps (if it ever existed, that is).<br /><br />For those who love \\"The Great Brain\\" series by J. D. Fitzgerald, this is more of the same sweet stories, although a bit more grown-up.  The boys all get married in the course of the stories, but only J. D. (who is telling the stories) is mentioned much.  Mostly the stories revolve around Mamma and her boarders.  Earnest Dawson, the orphan taken in by the Fitzgeralds, and Uncle Will and Uncle Mark are also prominent.  But without the children's perspective, the stories don't have the same \\"youthful\\" feel as \\"The Great Brain\\" or \\"Papa Married a Mormon,\\" and the story-telling sometimes feels a bit \\"wooden.\\"  This is not to say it's not good or worth reading, just that it's different from those earlier books and doesn't have the same feel or level of humor.  Still, a wonderful book to read.. if you can find it!	2005-09-15
US	40167923	RVWKT22I2IHJ0	039915079X	700072898	The Teeth of the Tiger (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	If you pull a tiger's tail be ready to face his teeth	Good old Jack Ryan, the likeable hero who went from being a part-time spy to the White House, has been put out to pasture.  But with the new threat of terrorists striking us on home soil, a new generation must rise up to protect us.  Luckily we have Jack Ryan Junior, the priviledged \\"American Prince,\\" looking to find his way in the world and continue the legacy of \\"Service to Country\\" started by his father.  Add to the mix his cousins, Brian and Dominic Caruso, who've proven themselves with the Marines in Afghanistan and the FBI respectively, as hit-men sent to help \\"deserving ragheads\\" meet Allah before they can plot the killing of any more innocent women and children.  What you end up with is a pretty plain and predictable introduction to Clancy's new heroes with little action and less plot.<br /><br />The characters aren't very likeable, either.  Jack Junior is the least so, as he comes across as a spoiled know-it-all rich kid accustomed to rubbing elbows with heads of state (smells like the Kennedy's).  The twin Caruso brothers are more likeable, but their \\"witty\\" banter as they cruise around Europe in a Porche looking for their next target is just plain boring.  I had intended to give this book an average 3 stars, but it just wasn't that good.  It might be fine if you're looking for some psuedo-patriotic fluff, but it seems Mr. Clancy was on cruise-control with this one and didn't really put much thought into his story.  Some will say the idea of terrorists coming across the border with Mexican smugglers to strike middle-American shopping malls is prophetic, but it's really verbatim conservative talk-radio.  Sorry, but I recommend a pass on this one.	2005-09-09
US	40167923	R22B9NX7VL11A9	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Mildly interesting, but not up to the hype	Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor of religious symbols, is in Paris to speak at a conference. He is awakened in the middle of the night by the police and taken to a crime scene at the famous art museum, the Louvre, supposedly for his expertise. The curator, Jacques Sauniere, has been murdered but left behind a baffling message. A cryptologist from the Paris Police named Sophia Neveu shows up to decipher the riddle and secretly informs Langdon that he is actually the prime suspect in the curator's death. Both end up on the run trying to stay alive and solve the series of messages and riddles left behind that hopefully lead to the legendary Holy Grail.<br /><br />Initially fast-paced with short chapters that leave you hanging and hints of details which are only alluded to, it's easy to get sucked in by this mysterious thriller. But the use of this style quickly feels over-used and becomes rather annoying as the action continually shifts back and forth between Langdon and Neveu, Silas the albino monk, and Bezu Fache the police chief, as well as others whose link to the story is unclear.<br /><br />This book has enjoyed such huge popularity that while reading it I was regularly approached by people at work and even on the street who'd tell me it was their \\"favorite\\" book. Part of this popularity perhaps stems from the controversial religious nature, and I imagine many Catholics could easily feel offended by the harsh portrayal of the history of their church (the author makes no distinction between Catholics and Christians; to him Catholicism IS Christianity, or at least a very corrupted form of it). While I wasn't \\"shocked\\" or offended (or even surprised) by some of the more controversial issues raised, I was disappointed with the portrayal of Jesus as essentially a pagan, saying that his miracles and divinity were mere fables invented by the Catholic Church to gain control over the people. And while I realize it's just a fictional novel, as was stressed to me by many of its fans, many facts (or at least widely held theories) are mingled so heavily in the story that it becomes hard to sort out what isn't real, lending an air of credibility to the fiction.<br /><br />Overall, an interesting mystery, but certainly not my \\"favorite\\" book.many facts (or at least widely held theories) are mingled so heavily in the story that it becomes hard to sort out what isn't real, lending an air of credibility to the fiction.    Overall, an interesting mystery, but certainly not my \\"favorite\\" book.	2005-08-25
US	40167923	R2S70AIR2HU07S	0446607177	11618814	Riptide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	$2 billion in pirate treasure = a great adventure tale!	Ragged Island, an island off the coast of the small town of Stormhaven, Maine, is rumored to be the site of the buried treasure of a ruthless 17th century pirate named Red Ned Ockham.  All attempts at recovering it have ended in failure and even disaster, and many locals believe the island to be cursed.  Dr. Malin Hatch, the owner of Ragged Island, has personally seen the curse at work in several generations of his family.  After being away from Stormhaven for 25 years he is approached by treasure hunters who wish to try again.  The difference this time, however, is that this group not only has the latest technology and extensive financial backing, they also know a lot more about what's buried and who designed the hiding place than any group before them, and so Dr. Hatch is convinced to allow them to try and is drawn back to the ghosts of his childhood.  It looks like this time Ockham's treasure is finally going to be unearthed, but there's still the Curse of Ragged Island to deal with...<br /><br />This is a great adventure tale, and although it's a bit slow to begin with (after the first chapter, that is), it was interesting enough that I couldn't stop reading.  But the action picks up and the story keeps taking strange twists, and I ended up reading the last 100 pages or so at one sitting.  Some of the characters were a bit stereotypical, but it in no way diminishes the story.  The only thing I didn't understand was the title \\"Riptide\\" because the riptide around the island is barely even mentioned.  All I can figure is that a \\"riptide\\" is something that can grab you and drag you down to your death, just like hunting for Ockham's treasure - but that's just my guess!  Regardless, a very enjoyable book I can highly recommend.	2005-07-27
US	40167923	R155TXK9LJPW1J	1594200211	691793905	Public Enemies: America's Greatest Crime Wave and the Birth of the FBI, 1933-34	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Detailed history of the Depression-Era gangsters and the FBI	An excellent history of the birth of the FBI as a national crime-fighting organization.  Mr. Burrough has done a tremendous amount of research and has thoroughly documented the facts behind one of the greatest crime waves in American history.  He has sorted through and compared all the stories and official records and other published accounts to present the truth as far as possible regarding the criminal gangs of 1933-34: John Dillenger, the Barker Gang, Pretty Boy Floyd, Baby Face Nelson, Machine Gun Kelly, Bonnie & Clyde, etc.  Also profiled are the men who brought them to justice: Mel Purvis, Sam Cowley, and many of the individual agents.  Burrough doesn't shy away from reporting the many mistakes the FBI made in their hunts, as they learned to deal with the criminals as an organization coming of age during the Depression, but he also gives them credit for having grown into an effecient organization.<br /><br />I found this book to be a very interesting and EXTREMELY thorough read.  I am impressed with the research that must have gone into writting this.  Some times, there is almost too much detail, but the detail included is always appropriate to the events presented.  For example, J. Edgar Hoover's life and exploits outside the Bureau are largely ignored.  Overall, I found it an insightful look into an era that is largely forgotten.	2005-07-07
US	40167923	R1V9O2MRQXV6W7	0739313061	929161085	Alone	Books	2	20	22	N	N	Stupid and cheesy	Bobby Dodge is a police sniper who is called to a hostage situation.  From his vantage point he witnesses a husband threatening his wife and small child with a handgun.  When it becomes apparent that the man is about to shoot the woman, Bobby blows him away, and his troubles begin.  The dead man was the only son of an influential judge, who alleges that the dead man's wife, Catherine Gagnon, orchestrated the whole situation.  Soon Bobby is accused of having an affair with the widow, and begins his own investigation while on mandatory leave from the police department.  What he uncovers is chilling and before he knows it he's in over his head.<br /><br />There's little suspense to the story, as the author basically lays everything out, and doesn't bother to try to hide much.  The main character of Officer Dodge is about the least likeable person possible, although Catherine Gagnon is probably worse.  Bobby constantly follows the most illogical course of action in everything he does; repeatedly meeting with Catherine, Judge Gagnon and his private detectives, breaking up with a devoted and wonderful girlfriend, etc.  A bunch of psycological nonsense is thrown in to explain his actions, of course, because he hates his mother.  And, most ridiculous of all, is the *exciting* conclusion, with about the cheesiest writing imaginable - as they're trying to be quiet (lots of people have been killed, some by being punched) the mother-in-law starts into lengthy monologues of what's happened.  And Catherine \\"reeking of gunpowder\\" after having fired several shots (all missing wildly), covered in perspiration, her hair matted to her head, and Bobby's thinking how beautiful she is.  I laughed out loud!  Add to it a dose of disgusting pedophilia and plenty of smut and foul languange, and I honestly can't recommend this book.  I'll give it 2 stars instead of 1 simply because the story was mildly interesting, enough that I actually finished it.	2005-06-02
US	40167923	RRQ0WTQ1OWMKX	1592244963	538524186	The Lost Continent by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Science Fiction	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Fans of ERB will probably enjoy it	Written in 1916 by Edgar Rice Burroughs, \\"The Lost Continent\\" is the story of Jefferson Turck, a 21 year old Navy Lieutenant for Pan America.  The premise is that the US and the rest of the western hemisphere didn't participate in the \\"Great War\\" (World War I), and Europe went on to destroy itself.  And since the consolidation of all North and South America nations into the single nation of Pan America, no one has bothered to travel outside the longitude boundaries of 30d on the east and 175d on the west.  But due to an act of sabotage his airplane/submarine/ship ends up beyond 30d and he and a few comrades eventually come ashore in Europe, where he finds a land of lions, tigers, and a few savage people.<br /><br />I assume this was meant as a social commentary to say that the only outcome of the war would be destruction.  But for a futuristic story, I find it unimaginitive and lacking any real vision.  Other than the airplane/submarine/ship creation, the men appear to fire regular rifles similar to what would have existed in 1916.  And while I don't find the writing style particularly appealing, I realize that ERB has a lot of fans out there who do appreciate it.  So I guess fans of ERB will enjoy this book a lot more than I did (I read the PDA version).	2005-06-02
US	40167923	R1TKY9RIC1MQRN	0812542835	410299170	Reliquary (Pendergast, Book 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Monsters beneath Manhattan	A police diver discovers two headless bodies in the waterways of New York City which are sent to the Museum of Natural History for analysis.  Margo Green and Professor Frock, anthropologists for the museum, determine that one is a wealthy young socialite who disappeared a few months before.  The other, however, is much more difficult, and has many features that appear non-human, and bear strong resemblances to the Mbwun creature from the prequel \\"Relic.\\"  Other characters from the previous book include Lt. D'Agosta, and Bill Smithback, a reporter for the NY Post.  Everything points to a race of Mbwun creatures living deep in the forgotten tunnels and sewers beneath the city.<br /><br />Not having read \\"Relic\\" before \\"Reliquary\\", it's still a very exciting and interesting book.  The underground homeless, or \\"Mole People,\\" and strange monsters with mostly likeable characters combine for a story that is at times hard to put down.  The ending gets a bit wild but everything is tied together pretty well.  A fun book I can confidently recommend.	2005-06-01
US	40167923	R2P4FIE64C4PU4	0671047884	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Can we really communicate with those who are dead?	Nell MacDermott lost her parents as a child and as a teenager nearly drowned in a riptide while swimming in the ocean.  Now married to a successful architect, Adam Cauliff, she is pressed by her grandfather, former New York Senator Cornelius MacDermott, who raised her after her parent's death, to run for his old Senate seat.  But Adam is opposed to her desire to enter politics, and as they quarrel before he leaves for a business meeting aboard his private yacht, she suggests it might be best if he didn't come home.  During the meeting, the boat explodes, killing Adam and several of his associates.  Nell is heartbroken, but questions about Adam's involvement in substandard building work and payoff deals arise, and it looks like everyone is looking to blame the dead who can no longer defend themselves.  Nell feels compelled to save Adam's reputation, but the information she begins to uncover makes her doubt everything she had believed.<br /><br />The idea has potential but it seemed kind of formulaic, and the characters aren't particularly well developed (although in all fairness, I listened to the abridged version and something may be lost there).  The story overall was interesting enough and mostly enjoyable.  The heavy emphasis on psychic mediums and supernatural encounters was... um, interesting... although that was explained cleverly by the end.  This book would probably be enjoyed much more by true fans of Ms. Clark, but kind of a fun story anyway.	2005-05-19
US	40167923	R3Q8IQKVPI82PN	0345458931	730478278	Body Double	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Yet another Boston medical thriller, but better than most	Dr. Maura Isles returns home from a medical conference in Paris to find a crime scene in front of her house.  Oddly, however, her neighbors look at her as though she's a ghost, and when she sees the victim in the car she learns why: the dead woman is nearly identical to her in appearance.  But as the police investigation progresses, it turns out Maura and the dead woman have a lot more in common than just looks - birthdates, clothing preferences, similar careers, and both were adopted.  But why was she at Maura's house and why was she killed, and more importantly, was she really the intended target?<br /><br />Yet another medical thriller set in Boston hospitals and deals heavily with medical examiners and autopsies (see also \\"A Case of Need\\" and \\"The Patient\\") but this one is better and keeps you turning the pages.  The ending felt a bit rushed, but overall a good book, although 4 stars is maybe a bit too high - call it 3.5.	2005-05-18
US	40167923	R3IQGCLAC2NKET	0743535804	219080118	Nighttime Is My Time	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Which of the successful nerds is the serial killer?	Jean Sheridan is off to the 20 year school reunion for Stonecroft Academy.  She and several others from her class will be honored for their achievements.  A reporter for the school newspaper notes that all but one of Jean's school friends have died, some under mysterious circumstances.  In fact he points out that the girls have died in the order they were sitting in a yearbook photo.  Further clouding the event for Jean are the letters she's received threatening to harm her daughter \\"Lily\\" whom she gave up for adoption after her boyfriend, a West Point cadet, was killed in a hit-and-run.  Also at the reunion is a group of successful men being honored, all who, in contrast to the beautiful and popular women, were very nerdy in school.  The mystery becomes which of the men is \\"The Owl,\\" the serial killer responsible for those deaths and others.<br /><br />I listened to the abridged version on my commute and at first it wasn't clear to me that the killer wasn't identified.  I found it kind of hard to differentiate between the several characters, none of which are especially endearing.  Nevertheless, the story was interesting and sometimes I found myself sitting in the car trying to listen a little longer.  But it was a nice enough mystery novel.	2005-05-13
US	40167923	R1KOG8RUGCI650	055345675X	578328201	The Patient	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting, but seemed "by-the-numbers"	Jessie Copeland is a neurosurgeon working with an experimental robot named ARTIE used for internal brain tumor surgery.  Alex Bishop is a CIA agent is tracking down a killer named Claude Malloche, who he's learned has an inopperable brain tumor.  Malloche has been trying discreetly to get treatment, and killing neurosurgeons who won't guarantee success.  Bishop follows his hunch that Malloche will show up at Boston's Eastern Mass. Medical Center, and happens to be in the right place at the right time.<br /><br />Fans of Robin Cook would probably love this one.  The plot is interesting and has a few twists, although they're not particularly surprising.  I listened to an abridged version and I think I probably would have enjoyed the full version much more, as this one seemed to have a few disconnects.	2005-05-03
US	40167923	RO3F5HUO1YQ0	0517189682	444133547	Anne of Green Gables (Children's Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A classic for all children (and their parents)	Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert, a brother and sister living in Avonlea on Prince Edward Island, are getting old and have decided to get some additional help to maintain their farmland.  They send word that they'll accept a boy from the orphanage into their home.  But when Matthew goes to the train station to pick him up, all he finds is a lonely little 11 year old girl waiting for him.  There's obviously been some mistake, but he can't very well leave her there, so he brings her back to their home, known locally as Green Gables.  On the way he quickly takes a liking to this homely but very talkative little red-haired girl who seems so full of dreams, and he convinces Marilla to keep her.  But Anne is so different from proper and sensible Marilla, and her occasional mistakes make them both wonder if she should stay at Green Gables.<br /><br />My 6 year old daughter and I read this book together and we both agree that it was a lot of fun to read.  Although the flowery language and Anne's usually lengthy monologues were often difficult to follow, we both felt that Anne was so charming that we don't blame Matthew and Marilla for falling in love with her.  This is a book we can very much recommend, to both young and old readers.	2005-04-25
US	40167923	RLPUXPUD9JV4C	0812580036	365726027	Oliver Twist	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Oliver the orphan among thieves and murderers	The classic tale of Oliver Twist, who's mother died the night he was born leaving him an orphan in the care of the parochial workhouse - a place where paupers were sent and generally given only enough food to keep them working and alive (and oftentimes not even that much!).  But when young Oliver dares to ask for \\"a little more\\" it is determined that the workhouse can no longer keep such an ungrateful child.  He is sent to work as an apprentice for the undertaker, but due to some very rude treatment he runs away, eventually finding himself in London in the care of Fagin.  Fagin is a cunning and hideous old man who runs a gang of thieves and pickpockets, and is intent on teaching Oliver the art and making him a member of the gang.<br /><br />So begins Dickens' classic story of Oliver's struggle to shake off the miserable circumstances placed upon him at birth and find his place in the world.  Initially very depressing, with it's forceful depictions of the sorry state of the poor in mid 19th century England, the writing is throughout rather sarcastic, which was probably meant as a social commentary on the various classes.  But there is humor and happiness along with the sadness, as various events coincide to help Oliver along his way.  And while Dickens is sometimes criticized for a business-like approach to his writing, it's obvious why this book is still considered a classic so many years after it was written.  A thoroughly enjoyable book and well worth the time.	2005-04-25
US	40167923	R2GWI1F7JWW78X	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	5	6	N	N	You'll feel like you've been there in this exciting mystery	Wherever there's a sunken shipwreck, you'll find a good fishing spot as well as the potential to recover something valuable.  Hence, fishermen and divers alike tend to keep such locations secret when possible.  Bill Nagle, having gained fame by recovering the bell from the Andria Doria, gets the coordinates to another deep-sea wreck, which he suspects could be a huge find.  Too sick from the effects of alcoholism, he gets together a group of expert divers to check it out, including John Chatterton.  Chatterton dives first to determine if it's worthwhile or not, and discovers a German U boat (submarine) from WWII right off the coast of New Jersey.  The true mystery becomes which submarine is it?  As he and fellow diver, Richie Kohler, become increasingly obsessed with discovering its name, several other divers lose their lives trying to help solve the mystery.<br /><br />Kurson does an excellent job telling this true story of the two diver's obsession with the mystery U boat.  His attention to detail is terrific without becoming tedious, and he does especially well to explain the difficulties involved with such deep diving.  His descriptions of the effects of pressure leave no doubt and you almost feel as though you've been to the bottom of the sea with Chatterton and Kohler.  But he also richly introduces the reader to the characters and their backgrounds to where you almost feel you know them.  Their mystery quickly and easily becomes real, and I found it difficult to put the book down, reading compulsively until the mystery was solved, at which point appropriate background is given on the men who died aboard the \\"U-Who.\\"<br /><br />A thoroughly exciting ride without lulls in the action on a level with Krakauer's \\"Into Thin Air\\" account of Mt. Everest.  I've also seen comparisons to \\"The Perfect Storm,\\" but I found that story perfectly boring.  In contrast to that book, this is without made up dialog as those involved are still alive to tell their tale.	2005-04-13
US	40167923	R1PJEX646QWW7Q	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	5	18	21	N	N	It's not a question - it's a statement	What's so great about America.  It's not a question, it's a statement.  And D'Souza proceeds in clear and precise logic to show why America is such a great nation.  He starts by analyzing the complaints from the Middle-Eastern terrorists, the Europeans, the Asians, and even the \\"intellectual elite\\" of America, who are perhaps the loudest critics.  He examines colonialism, slavery, and racial preferences.  He covers immigration and why others want to come here, and very convincingly discusses American morality and religion.  And he supports all his assertions with sound research and statistics.<br /><br />Being an immigrant himself, D'Souza knows of what he speaks.  He is able to contrast his experience with that of others.  His experiences in the Reagan administration have given him an interesting insight that many of us take for granted.  I found his logic not only persuasive, but uplifting at a time when so many within our own country seek only to divide and tear us apart.  I can highly recommend this book to help one appreciate the blessing it is to live in America, and as food for thought for those who think otherwise.	2005-04-06
US	40167923	R1JGX7NX9QJFGW	0812564839	861735579	The Lost World (Tor Classics)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Hunting dinosaurs and ape-men	Mr. E. D. Malone is a journalist in love.  Gladys, however, wants someone who has done something heroic.  So Malone asks his editor to send him to cover some dangerous story, and so he meets the wild and volatile Professor Challenger who claims to have found evidence of prehistoric creatures still living in South America.  Of course, the whole scientific community (as well as society in general) thinks he's crazy, and one of his detractors proposes that they send a small impartial expedition to verify his claims.  So it happens that Malone and a few others are sent to the Amazon River basin to search out this lost world of Professor Challenger's and verify if the creatures he claims exist are real or not.<br /><br />Kind of a nice old-fashioned adventure tale, but a bit slow-moving and light on the adventure.  Maybe the story is just too well known, but the action is very understated.  While the characters are interesting enough, none are especially well-developed, not even Mr. Malone, who tells the story.	2005-03-16
US	40167923	RH2IDMDXUVBN4	0060166932	56455717	Lost Boys	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Horrible ending ruins an otherwise interestingly creepy book	A young Mormon family moves to North Carolina and struggles with the adjustment.  The father, Step (short for Stephen), works in an awful job, the wife, DeAnn, is pregnant with their 4th child, and financial troubles don't leave them many options.  The one with the biggest problem adjusting, however, is their oldest son, Stevie, who is about 8 years old.  His school teacher treats him horribly and he has no friends, except for an increasing group of imaginary boys.  Obviously, these turn out to be the same kids who've gone missing in town recently, but the parents don't make this connection until it's too late.<br /><br />This will likely be the only book by Mr. Card I will ever read, and it's not because he's not a good writer.  I thought he was masterful in creating a very creepy atmosphere - I disagree with what others here are calling boring!  If you have the patience, he makes his characters come alive as real, normal and even sympathetic people.  But the reason I will likely not read another of his books (and if you're determined to read this book, STOP reading this review now!) is the absolutely horrible and unhappy ending.  Some reviews here are calling it \\"beautiful\\" and \\"touching.\\"  I couldn't disagree more, and I wish I'd known this before I started this one.  There was no \\"silver lining\\" or \\"light\\" at the end of this tunnel, just emptiness.	2005-03-04
US	40167923	R2NPOD3W3CO5F2	0553214322	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Interesting idea/Old-fashioned horror novel	The strange story of Edward Prendick, who is picked up in the beginning of the story as the lone survivor of an accident at sea.  The crew of the ship that saves him, however, is unhappy with the other passengers: a Mr. Montgomery and his strange helper, and a cargo of wild animals.  Prendick is forced off the ship when Montgomery and the animals disboard at a small island.  Although unwelcome, he is taken into the care of the master of the island, the strange and reclusive Dr. Moreau.  Prendick soon learns of the horrific research being performed there by the doctor.<br /><br />Interesting as an old horror novel, and the story is compelling enough.  As seems to be typical of many similar novels from the time (late 1800's) the idea for the story is drawn from scientific ideas then prevalent, and interestingly enough, has a modern-day parallel in some of the current stem-cell research.  Readers who enjoy Jules Verne would probably also like this book, although it's generally darker and more pessimistic than Verne.  (I was most surprised to realize this book was the inspiration for a bizzare 80's song entitled \\"No Spill Blood\\" by Oingo Boingo.)	2005-02-25
US	40167923	R213Q0FHPUN2G5	0553212257	321315584	The Sea Wolf (Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	First half: GREAT, last half: weak	Humphrey Van Weyden, a pampered son of wealth, has lived a comfortable life of bookishness and learning in 1890's San Francisco.  But everything changes when an accident on a ferry-trip across the bay leaves him floating helpless in a foggy sea.  He is picked up by a schooner heading out to hunt seals, captained by the vicious Wolf Larsen.  He is immediately pressed into service as cabin-boy aboard the Ghost, and learns a different kind of life than he has been raised to know.  Wolf Larsen is not only brutal and overbearing to everyone he encounters, but he is also highly intelligent, having taught himself reading and mathematics.  \\"Hump,\\" as Humphrey is called by the Captain, gains some measure of favor with the Captain as he is able to discuss philosophy and such things of which the rest of the crew is wholly ignorant.<br /><br />The characters and plot are intensely compelling, especially throughout the first half of the book where the drama is intense as he struggles to survive aboard the Ghost.  His observations of the other crew members are interesting, as he discovers how different their lives are from his, and he feels pity for the things they lacked and which he took for granted.  Also, the character of Captain Larsen is incredible; completely horrible yet you feel a sort of sympathy even for him.<br /><br />My biggest complaint with the story is at about its midpoint where a woman character enters the story.  The struggle for life suddenly takes on a different meaning for Humphrey, as he now has someone other than himself to worry about, but this changes the whole mood of the story.  The struggle is no longer filled with the painful drama, but practically turns into a romance, and a fairly sappy one, at that.  It's also here that the book slows down with quite a few long passages about the mechanics and technical details of ships and sailing.  But overall a very interesting tale of struggle - it's just unfortunate that the ending wasn't as strong.	2005-02-16
US	40167923	RSIMCJ643U59L	0446531251	451794091	In His Image: Book One of the Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Interesting and exciting start, but loses intensity	A team of research scientists is given brief access to study the Shroud of Turin, believed by some to be the burial cloth of Jesus.  Decker Hawthorne, a journalist, finds out that one of his old professors (before he changed his major from pre-med to journalism), Harry Goodman, is on the team, and manages to get himself included as an assistant.  Although their findings are largely inconclusive, Goodman later discovers live human skin cells from the shroud.  These he uses to develop many promising cancer and AIDS treatments, granting Decker exclusive access to publish his findings first.  But Goodman also uses the cells, believed to be from the ressurrected Christ, to create a clone whom he initially passes off as his nephew, Christopher.  Before long it becomes apparent that there is something different and special about Christopher, and some believe he is to usher in a \\"New Age\\" of religion.<br /><br />Evaluating it merely as a suspense thriller, it certainly has it's moments.  Some of the early sections of the book are particularly good, such as battles between Israel and several Arab nations which is reminiscent of \\"Red Storm Rising\\" by Tom Clancy.  But around the middle of the book (this is only the first of three) it bogs down as both Decker and a grown-up Christopher become involved in the United Nations.  Some of the intrigue between various members provides for some interest, but it's mostly coasting on the steam built up in the first half of the book.<br /><br />And while I'd like to evaluate the book only as a fictional novel, it's impossible to ignore that fact that this is a religious-based book.  The author includes a statement at the beginning asking readers to remember that the opinions expressed by fictional characters in his books do not necessarily represent his own opinions.  And while I personally found some parts rather distasteful (particularly the excerpts from the next book), I must admit that his story and ideas are interesting.  Even some of his historical explanations were interesting, such as how the Shroud could actually have been what some claim it to be, in spite of carbon dating proving it's not that old.  Additionally, it seems well researched, even containing many footnotes (I assume they're legitmate references), and he certainly seems to have a good knowledge of scriptures.<br /><br />Overall, it's a very interesting idea and has some very good parts but it bogs down too much and becomes very boring.  And the excerpts from the second book certainly didn't make me eager to keep reading the trilogy.l explanations were interesting, such as how the Shroud could actually have been what some claim it to be, in spite of carbon dating proving it's not that old.  Additionally, it seems well researched, even containing many footnotes (I assume they're legitmate references), and he certainly seems to have a good knowledge of scriptures.      Overall, it's a very interesting idea and has some very good parts but it bogs down too much and becomes very boring.  And the excerpts from the second book certainly didn't make me eager to keep reading the trilogy.	2005-01-13
US	40167923	R36GI9Z2CY3ZWF	0743467655	367000973	A Star Trek: The Next Generation: Time #1: A Time to Be Born (Star Trek (Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting, even for a non-Trekkie	The book starts with the inclusion of Wesley Crusher into a group know as \\"Travellers,\\" although he doesn't re-enter the story till near the end.  The story mainly concerns the crew of the Enterprise and their mission to assist in the protection of the site of the Dominian War so bodies can be retrieved and fend off those trying to profit by stealing components from destroyed ships.  But as things go wrong, Captain Picard is accused of negligence in his duties for allowing his personal cruiser to be stolen, and then firing upon a friendly ship resulting in more death and destruction.  This book is only a beginning for others to continue the story.<br /><br />This is the first Star Trek book I've read.  While I enjoy watching \\"Next Generation\\" on TV occasionally, I'm not exactly a fan.  But I found the book enjoyable, and although somewhat slow-moving, it was interesting and having seen many episodes I was able to visualize the characters.  In all, it felt like I was reading the story of an episode, although significantly longer.  My biggest disappointment was that the story wasn't resolved, and realizing there are quite a few other books in this \\"series.\\"<br /><br />Overall, kinda fun to read, but I'm not sure I'll become a fan of the books.  (I read the electronic version on my PDA).	2005-01-06
US	40167923	R1AEBLAG5TXCUQ	0071437924	585667576	My Personal Best : Life Lessons from an All-American Journey	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Highly inspirational!	Prior to living in southern California, I didn't really know who John Wooden was, except that he was a basketball coach.  Now I know he was much more than that; he is a legend.<br /><br />Coach Wooden discusses his life, from his early days playing basketball on an uneven dirt court with fruit baskets to shoot into, to the passing of his beloved wife.  He talks about the great influence of his father and coaches who lovingly taught him to always do his best.  He openly shares the mistakes he made, both as a player and a coach, and the lessons he learned from them.  He also talks about some of the players he coached, the 12 NCAA championships at UCLA, and what made him most proud.  Included are numerous photos from his life.  And while basketball is a big focus of the book, it's not the only focus in the book or his life.<br /><br />An inspirational book I can highly recommend to anyone.  Coach Wooden is a great role model - something that is unfortunately uncommon among sports figures.	2004-12-30
US	40167923	R3IPXEFL7XAQGF	B00009NDB0	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures (Hardcover))	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An enjoyable story in spite of some weaknesses	Dirk Pitt and the crew on a NUMA ship are in the right place at the right time when a cruise ship with a new propulsion system catches fire on its maiden voyage.  Heroically, they manage to save most of the 2,500 passengers, but soon find out that the fire was set deliberately.  Dirk and his friend Al get drawn into the murderous plot of a huge oil corporation and narrowly escape several attempts on their lives, while saving many others, including some beautiful damsels in distress.  The stories of an ancient Viking settlement and Jules Verne are woven into the tale as well, although I thought the connections were a bit shakey.<br /><br />This is the first novel by Clive Cussler I've read.  The story has plenty of adventure and excitement, but it often sounds unbelievable.  And the character of Dirk Pitt is often too good to be true (that's not as negative as it sounds, however), almost in an old-fashioned sort of way.  Perhaps the part I found most hokey was that the author writes himself into the story at one point.  But what I appreciated most about this book is the total lack of trashiness and profanity.  It's refreshing to see someone write something nice without stooping to vulgarity.  (I realize not everyone appreciates or cares about that, but I wanted to point it out for those who do).  Overall, I enjoyed the book and I look forward to reading more from Mr. Cussler.	2004-12-22
US	40167923	R2HVXKXNFJEZZ2	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Extraordinary accomplishments from ordinary people	\\"The Greatest Generation\\" is an inspirational collection of short histories about various individuals who served in various roles during World War II.  Included is not only stories of soldiers, but also the wives and families left home, some who helped take up the slack in the workplace; the Japanese Americans who were sent to internment camps; and famous people who served.  Mr. Brokaw says as a group they generally held high standards of moral values and because of this strength they were able to pull together and defeat the greatest threat to freedom in modern times.  Although usually reluctant to discuss their wartime experiences, there are many stories shared here of battlefield experiences, as well as what became of these people after they returned home and tried to make up for lost time.<br /><br />My appreciation for what these men and women did increased.  Reading their stories of what they experienced and the trials they faced was very motivational.  The only part that I felt wasn't on par with the rest of the book was when it discussed the celebrities and some of the famous politicians (some of whom appeared to have done nothing noteworthy during the war).  But other than that it was very inspirational to read about these \\"ordinary\\" people who did extraordinary things, both during and after the war.  It helped me gain a greater appreciation for my grandparents and those of their generation.	2004-10-18
US	40167923	R1LGI5ON28HAY2	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting account of the horrors of colonialism in Africa	Near the end of the 1800's much of Europe was discovering the untapped natural resources of Africa, and expanding their colonial reach into the Dark Continent.  King Leopold of Belgium, unhappy with his small kingdom and dimished role as king, sought to create a colony anywhere he could.  He used the famed explorer Stanley to claim the area known as the Congo as his own personal colony.  He initially exploited it for ivory, and later for rubber, using forced labor (slavery) among the native peoples to build his own personal wealth.  Although he never set foot there himself, he profited immensely while brutally suppressing the natives and forcing them to work for him, causing the deaths of an estimated 10 million people over about 25 years.  At the same time he portrayed himself as a great humanitarian to the rest of the world.  Eventually, however, word began to come out of the atrocities committed in the Congo.  Leopold waged public relations campaigns to discredit his detractors, but eventually several mistakes led to a great public outcry and he eventually sold the Congo to Belgium.<br /><br />The author does a very good job of pulling all available sources together, a difficult task since much of the documentation was destroyed.  The brutality and cruelness employed by the Europeans is discussed at length and in appropriate detail.  He discusses the attitudes and hypocricy prevalent at the time, but doesn't ignore the fact that slavery was a long-standing practice among Africans.  He also examines the successes and failings of the movement to free the Congo, the first sustained human-rights campaign in history.  This book is very enlightening about an area and period of history that has long been ignored and covered up, to the point where few remember what happened.	2004-09-27
US	40167923	R2I4OZZIYKQSXE	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very interesting and a great page-turner	A cutting-edge tech company in the New Mexico desert has discovered how to use quantum physics to teleport people, not from one place to another, but from one *time* to another. Of course there are a few bugs still to be worked out, and there have been a few accidents, but the money-making potential is great. But there is also a great danger in the potential to affect the past, and great care must be taken.<br /><br /> Part of the company's strategy involves funding an archaeology dig site in France, where a fourteenth century excavation is taking place. When the professor in charge is called to visit company headquarters, his assistants make an astonishing find in the excavation: a note from the professor from the fourteenth century! Soon thereafter, the company comes requesting their help to rescue the professor, who has become stranded in time. Once back in time, the dangers become immediately apparent and very real, and their own return home becomes doubtful.<br /><br /> While the technology isn't nearly as believable (or even understandable) as some of Mr. Crichton's other books (such as Jurassic Park, or Prey), this book is nevertheless a great adventure. And while the continuous &quot;out of the frying pan into the fire&quot; situations might be a bit of a stretch, it was still a lot of fun to read. I especially liked the great picture presented of what it might have been like to live during that time, and I'll assume that it's fairly accurate and well-researched. Overall, very interesting and a great page-turner. One last bit: don't even bother with the movie!	2004-07-20
US	40167923	R1YLSEX2AOMR1W	1568493673	137138560	The Naked Communist	Books	4	173	196	N	N	Surprisingly relevent, even today	Written about 1960 by W. Cleon Skousen, who worked in the FBI for 16 years, taught at the university level, and served as a Chief of Police in Salt Lake City and a Field Director for the American Security Council in Chicago.  This is a simple and straightforward book that examines the philosophies and objectives of Communism; outlines the history of the Communist takeovers in Russia, Eastern Europe, China, Korea, and Cuba; and details the shortcomings of Communist teachings and society.  Marx, Lenin, Stalin, Krushchev, and Castro are discussed in detail, as well as many others, including some influential Americans.  Mr. Skousen makes very plain the threat of Communism in the United States and how previous failures to act led to so many countries falling to Communism.<br /><br />I don't remember why I initally picked up this book, but I doubted that it had much relevance in today's world.  With the fall of the Soviet Union I thought it was pretty much a moot point.  But I was surprised at how much it sounded like things I've heard variously from students and teachers in college classes - all since the fall of the USSR.  I found the analysis of the life of Karl Marx and his philosophies convincing but a bit dry.  However, the history of how Communism came to be such a powerful force in the world and its failures to provide for the people was very interesting and hard to put down.  Furthermore, it parallels what I'm reading in another book by a Chinese journalist who experienced firsthand the Communist takeover in China.<br /><br />The book is written clearly and in plain language, and there are plenty of footnotes.  It will certainly make you look at organizations such as the United Nations and the ACLU very differently.  Overall, an interesting and convincing analysis of Communism not only as a political philosophy but also from a historical perspective.	2004-06-15
US	40167923	R1WI3KI3Y5GLG0	0964060566	932088976	Mouse Tales: A Behind-The-Ears Look at Disneyland	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Interesting and fun, but no earth-shaking revelations here	Several years ago in an MBA class I read an article entitled &quot;The Smile Factory: Work at Disneyland&quot; which was very interesting.  It opened up a new perspective to the &quot;Happiest Place on Earth.&quot;  This book is more of the same, although written by an outsider as opposed to a former employee.  It's basically a collection of stories from interviews with past and present employees of Disneyland.  It starts with a basic history of the park explaining some of the problems that happened and some of the behind-the-scenes stuff you normally wouldn't know about, and goes on to talk about things such as rude guests, mischevious employees, and even the crime and accidents that have occurred at the park.<br />To call this book &quot;unauthorized&quot; makes it sound like an expose` of sorts, but that's a bit dramatic.  Really, while it discusses aspects of the park that Disney would rather keep behind-the-scenes, I didn't find it critical in any way.  The book acknowledges that Disney is a money-making company and must behave as such, but also that they do a very good job of pleasing their guests.  The book was interesting, kinda fun, and easy to read, but basically light stuff.	2004-05-21
US	40167923	R38YGEUKD8SLUP	0333452984	340762456	Sphere	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting idea, but too slow-moving	Norman is a psychologist who once participated on a project for the Carter administration that he viewed largely as a joke: what to do if we ever encountered extra-terrestrial life.  When he is suddenly summoned to what he thinks is a airplane crash site, he finds instead that the Navy has found an alien spacecraft deep in the ocean.  The team Norman recommended for just such an occasion has already been assembled and he's been included.  But what they all find is more powerful and dangerous than anyone imagined.<br /><br />I found the story slow-moving and almost dull until it got near the end.  Yes, the end was pretty exciting, but this just wasn't a thrilling page-turner like some of Crichton's books.  The idea was very interesting but the book just didn't have the momentum to keep it exciting.  Not one of my favorite Crichton books - 3.5 stars.	2004-04-21
US	40167923	R1H1TIYNFZVHO6	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Both frightening and realistic	Researchers at a remote facility in the Nevada desert have been working on defense and medical applications using nanotechnology - microscopic robots used to perform various functions.  Jack Forman, a recently unemployed computer programmer specializing in using predator/prey relationships to optimize computer applications, has been asked to help debug some problems.  The opportunity is good for Jack because his wife works for the company on the same project, although her behavior has been very strange lately.  He suspects she is having an affair with a coworker.  What he discovers, however, is that the experiment has gotten loose and created a self-sustaining, self-replicating swarm of nano-bots that attack and kill in seconds.<br />In my opinion, this is one of Michael Crichton's best novels - on a level with Jurassic Park or Andromeda Strain.  What makes it especially frightening is the introduction (do NOT skip the intro) where he explains that the scenario is real and possible - a confluence of computer technology, bioengineering, and nanotechnology - and experts have begun to warn of potential disasters in the next 50 to 100 years.  Then a short half-page narrative right before chapter one, obviously from a time later in the story, helps to set a tone that makes it difficult to put the book down.  In all honesty, my ONLY complaint was the liberal use of the &quot;F&quot; word.<br />Although the technology is very complicated, Mr. Crichton does a good job of explaining it - not that I understood it well, but enough to follow the plot.  In all a very enjoyable and scary story that I wanted to keep reading to the conclusion.	2004-03-16
US	40167923	R16CWEO0FCTR45	0380977265	468229732	Dandelion Wine	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Very enjoyable, but difficult to explain	It's the summer of 1928 in a small town in Illinois and Douglas Spaulding is 12 years old.  And for the first time in his life he realizes that he is alive, truly alive.  He begins keeping a list of all the \\"firsts\\" of the summer - first new pair of sneakers, first batch of dandelion wine bottled for the winter months, putting up the porch swing, etc.  But with this new awarness of being alive comes the realization that he also will one day die.<br />This is a difficult book to explain.  The writing style is incredible, almost poetic in some ways, and capable of creating powerful visual images and feelings.  The beginning, especially when Douglas becomes aware of everything around him, is very moving.  But towards the end, when he begins to recognize his own mortality, it gets a bit dark.  The chapters are often very disconnected, as if they're snapshots instead of continuations of the story, and that adds to the sometimes dream-like quality of the writing.<br />This is a very enjoyable book, one that really causes you to think and perhaps even re-consider priorities.  It's just a difficult book to summarize and explain.	2004-03-03
US	40167923	R6C8BT97QUDQ	0002238594	243303903	Sum of All Fears	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A lot less far-fetched since Sept. 11	Peace has broken out in the Middle East, due in large part to the efforts of Jack Ryan, but not everyone is happy about it.  A small group of Palestinian terrorists have stumbled upon enough plutonium to make a powerful nuclear bomb, and with the right help can threaten the United States.  Also, the President's new Security Advisor hates Jack and does everything she can to get him kicked out.  Her bad advice causes total confusion at the worst possible time.<br />While initially slow moving, the end was very exciting.  What must have seemed far-fetched when the book was written in 1991, no longer seems impossible in the wake of the September 11th terrorist attacks. But overall, I enjoyed the book once it got going.	2004-02-19
US	40167923	R3H26PZM02MT10	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Winning baseball on a shoestring budget	In pro-basketball the difference between the richest and the poorest teams (in terms of team payroll) is 1.75:1.  In pro-football it's 1.5:1.  But, in pro-baseball it's 4:1.  The convential &quot;wisdom&quot; says you have to buy success by getting the biggest stars.  So what do you do if your team can't afford it?<br />Billy Beane, GM of the Oakland A's, has turned to sabermetrics (the statistical study of baseball) to find undervalued players.  The most important aspects of baseball are not what we've always been told by TV commentators and other baseball-people.  The ability to get on base (even by a walk) and generate runs (instead of outs - including sacrifices) is more important than stats like batting averages and RBI's.  The most valuable players are also most often the most grossly overlooked.  Beane and his staff have been very successfull in exploiting this over the last couple of years.<br />The book is well-written and often very entertaining.  The only times I felt it grew slow was when Mr. Lewis was trying to explain some of the theories and statistics that were really important (then it becomes a 3-star book).  But some of the success stories of underdog players were really fun to read.  I reccomend it to anyone who has any interest in baseball, and I'll certainly pay more attention to the Oakland A's next year.	2004-01-07
US	40167923	RJUNF9ETUXQPA	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not a classic, but a nice holiday story you can relate to	With their daughter off to Peru with the Peace Corps, Luther Krank and his somewhat-willing wife Nora have decided to skip Christmas this year.  After totalling last years damage at over $6,000, with little to show for it, they decide to take a Carribbean cruise instead of spending money on gifts, parties, and decorations.  The main problem, however, is that Hemlock Street is one of the most festive steets in town during the holiday season.  And their neighbors on Hemlock Street aren't too pleased with the Krank's decision.<br />I think many people can relate to the Krank's desire to avoid the busy pace of Christmas, although Luther is perhaps a bit extreme.  But with the hectic feeling the holidays bring, I felt as envious as Luther's co-workers as he prepared for his upcoming cruise.  And while the neighbors reaction was initially funny, as Luther digs in his heels and things on Hemlock Street begin to get a bit ugly, the story became somewhat uncomfortable and tense.  But, of course, there's a happy ending, and while it's no Christmas classic, it was a nice easy read with a holiday theme.	2003-12-18
US	40167923	R3FZ3O46H5F6DZ	0819565113	730421790	The Mighty Orinoco (Early Classics of Science Fiction)	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Uninteresting, unexciting, and predictable	Two separate groups of travelers arrange passage up the Orinoco River of Venezuala but end up traveling mostly together.  The first group is 3 mapmakers who argue constantly over the actual origin of the Orinoco and which are it's tributaries.  The second group, a young man and his older companion, are much more mysterious about their objectives.  They'll say only that they are seeking a certain man who is said to have gone up the same river many years before.  This man they are seeking turns out to be the father of the young man, and the young man turns out to actually be... well, that's a poorly kept secret of the story.  Along the way they face dangerous rapids and unfriendly savages, as well as treasonous porters.<br />While I was hoping for an old-fashioned adventure, I was rather bored by the story.  To make it worse, the secrets and surprises were pretty obvious, and there just wasn't much excitement.  While I found &quot;The Mysterious Island&quot; to be very interesting in spite of a generally slow pace, this book was just plain slow.  This is a book probably best enjoyed by rabid Verne fans.	2003-12-16
US	40167923	R2KV71BSXOAQCJ	0679446486	684823314	Airframe	Books	3	2	2	N	N	You'll at least be more attentive next time you fly!	A trans-Pacific flight from Hong Kong encounters severe turbulence leaving several passengers dead and many more injured.  Casey Singleton, who is in charge of Quality Control for the airplane manufacturer, is assigned to head the internal investigation into what went wrong.  But it soon becomes apparent that someone doesn't want her to figure out what happened.  Add to it a labor dispute, and not only is the future of the company in jeopardy, but Casey's life as well.<br />&quot;Airframe&quot; offers an amazing and interesting insight into several industries.  I learned some very interesting things about how the airplanes are made and the tests and regulations required.  While reading it I even felt a bit uneasy about flying, and found that I paid a lot more attention to the operations of the jet the next time I flew.  But not only was the book informative (for a work of fiction, anyway), but it was also a lot of fun to read.  Maybe not my favorite Crichton book, but I really enjoyed it.	2003-12-16
US	40167923	R3NC2YNOESLWJ6	0684844281	357972578	Ronald Reagan	Books	4	63	70	N	N	Well-written and persuasive analysis of Reagan	As a White House insider during the Reagan Administration, D'Souza observed first-hand the management style of one of the most respected and unrespected presidents of the last half of the 20th century.  Initially, he agreed with some of the criticisms, but later came to understand that Reagan simply had a different style than other presidents.<br /><br />Criticized for being intellectually lazy or simple-minded, President Reagan was never a favorite of the intellectual crowd.  His Hollywood past and appeals to higher morals didn't help.  Accused of napping during cabinet meetings and using his acting skills to sway public opinion, some dismiss him and his accomplishments, giving the credit to others or dumb luck.  In reality, D'Souza says he was very intelligent and could grasp a situation easily, but disliked dealing in the minutiae, preferring to delegate to others.  He was steered by a strong moral compass, and believed strongly in the people and their ability to make correct decisions when given the facts.  His accomplishments were many, including turning around the high-inflation economy of the 1970s (although he had to weather a couple tough years of recession) and bringing the Soviet Union to it's knees by refusing to appease them.<br /><br />Having grown up in the 1980s, I remember the Reagan years as a time when pride was restored to Americans, when the threat of the Soviet Union seemed very real and imminent.  The suggestion that the USSR would fall by the end of the decade would have been ridiculous.  But Reagan recognized that it was a system that offered no incentives to its people to perform better, and once he pushed it by forcing them into an arms race, it's weaknesses were revealed.  He was often criticized as too old and incompetent for his job, but he proved smarter than all his critics.  Too bad a president like that doesn't come along more often.<br /><br />I found the book to be an easy book to read.  D'Souza writes in a clear and logical way that is easy to follow.  His logic is persuasive and his language without a lot of flowery nonsense.  I highly recommend this book to those wishing to understand better the principles and thinking of one of the greatest leaders of the 20th century.His logic is persuasive and his language without a lot of flowery nonsense.  I highly recommend this book to those wishing to understand better the principles and thinking of one of the greatest leaders of the 20th century.	2003-12-12
US	40167923	R2GJJ9QZB63SA5	0736688595	438349301	The Firm	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Tense and exciting	Mitch McDeere is at the top of his graduating law class at Harvard and fielding offers from top firms.  A smaller tax firm named Bendini, Lambert, and Lock in Memphis, TN outbids all the others, determined to land their top pick.  They make him an offer he can't refuse.  At first it seems that the firm is a bit controlling of it's employees - it encourages children, it discourages working wives, etc.  But after Mitch is approached by the FBI it turns out that the firm is merely a front for a Chicago crime family, and the only way out is through retirement or death (which is more common with the Bendini firm than any other).  Mitch ends up running for his life.<br />Overall, the story is very good and quite entertaining.  I saw the movie years ago but I'm always surprised at how different it can be from the actual book.  The suspense and tension were at times uncomfortable, although the ending seemed to drag out with no escape in sight for the characters.  My only complaint would be with the reader (Scott Brick) who read everything with an excessively cool and arrogant manner, which was very annoying.  But overall a good story.	2003-11-05
US	40167923	R1C4FXVS4XCSB1	0465054684	967940175	For God, Country, and Coca-Cola	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Very good historical work, with good perspective	Basically, this is a book on the history of Coca-Cola, with some really good information on the cola industry as a whole.  Well-researched, and well-written, I enjoyed this book.  It was especially interesting to see the honesty in regard to the cocaine and caffiene content issues that Coke had to deal with, and later the &quot;New Coke&quot; fiasco.  My only complaint would be with the length and that its a bit slow moving.  The people involved certainly aren't very likeable, but the author does a good job of putting everything into a proper historical context.  It even has the &quot;secret formula&quot; for the drink, which I found interesting just to know what I'm drinking.	2003-10-23
US	40167923	R3R55V3ETFN4IK	055375677X	452887148	A Long Way from Home: Growing Up in the American Heartland (Tom Brokaw)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	An honest look at a simpler time	I picked this up because I had a long commute and it was about the only thing that looked interesting in the library's collection of audio books on CD.  What I found was surprisingly charming and entertaining.  Mr. Brokaw gives us a biography of who he is, and starts out with his ancestors.  He tells how they came to South Dakota, what was important to them, and how that eventually affected him.  He includes proper historical setting for the events he relates and in some cases the reasons behind the values they held.  He is clearly aware that a part of who he is comes from his ancestry.<br />He also tells about his own life; where he lived and the memories he has of the various places and people that were a part of his life.  I was even impressed that he spent a considerable amount of time dealing with his shortcomings.  One chapter tells how his pride and arrogance nearly cost him much of what he holds dear today, such as his career and his wife.  I was impressed with the candor with which he discussed the events, rather than trying to excuse himself or simply hide a weakness.  Another item that made me smile was telling about how the parents of a friend, who had gone through the Depression, had a difficult time using disposable paper towels, such a wasteful item.<br />While perhaps a nostalgic view of his life, I found it honest and sincere and I enjoyed listening to it.	2003-10-17
US	40167923	R2OKRGC92TI7AB	0399144773	103559066	Vector	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good... but not great	Yuri Davydov is a disillusioned cab driver in NYC with unused skills in biotechnology.  He's decided that the &quot;American Dream&quot; is all a bad joke and he'd rather return to Russia and take his chances there.  He teams up with some white supremacists to unleash bioweapons (anthrax and botulism) upon the Zionist citizens of New York City.  Dr. Jack Stapleton is a medical examiner with a sad past who stumbles upon some unusual cases and becomes wrapped up in trying to prevent the impending disaster.<br />I enjoyed the story quite a bit, some parts of which were rather tense and exciting.  The romantic subplot between Jack and Dr. Laurie Montgomery was a bit tiresome, however, and some of the wording sounded downright &quot;cheesy.&quot;  And while the white supremacist characters were thoroughly despicable and constantly spouting rote propaganda lines, I found myself feeling sympathetic toward the Russian cab driver (even though he was plotting an attack!).  The surprise ending was quite satisfying, however.<br />I listened to this book on CD and was rather impressed with the many accents and voices the reader used (I may have misspelled some names above because of that).  And while I wasn't totally impressed with this book (I think it's the first of Mr. Cook's books that I've read) I'll probably read another by the author.  It wasn't perfect but it was kind of fun.	2003-10-17
US	40167923	R3MO82Z833YNV2	0394415256	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great &quot;what if&quot; in the space program	Given that most life forms on earth are of the single-celled variety, it is likely that our first contact with extraterrestrial life would also be simple bacteria or spores.  When a space probe crashes in the desert near a small town, the crew sent to retrieve it finds only 2 survivors seemingly with nothing in common and a mystery as to the fate of the townspeople.  An expert team is assembled to study the probe and discover the cause for such quick and unusual deaths.  What they discover and some mistakes lead to an exciting ending.<br />While it may have sounded somewhat far-fetched when it was written in the early 70's, scientists today routinely take precautions to avoid such contamination.  A good example is the recent destruction of a space probe into Jupiter to avoid the chance of it crashing on one of the moons and possibly contaminating it with any hitchhiking Earth bacteria.  This story is written as though it were an actual event and the details, along with an analysis of the errors made along the way, having been pieced together in retrospect.  The idea is certainly plausible and the story was interesting to read.  Michael Crichton's medical and scientific knowledge lend and amazing air of credibility.<br />I enjoyed reading it very much - certainly much more than watching the hokey movie based on the book.	2003-10-13
US	40167923	R2J44XTPZBTJZA	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The U.S. gets serious in the "war on drugs"	The Coast Guard intercepts a luxury yacht where a brutal murder of 4 U.S. citizens has occurred.  The two Columbians aboard are coerced into confessing to the murder, and the gov't ends up with critical information regarding the drug trade.  With this information and the decision from the President that illegal drugs represent a \\"clear and present danger\\" several operations are launched to hit the Columbian cartel where it hurts.  Between financial seizures in the hundreds of millions and surgical strikes on supply lines, the action stays fast-paced and interesting.<br />While not my favorite Clancy book, it was nevertheless fun to read right down to the intense end.  Also, the progression of Jack Ryan's career with the CIA and the addition of John Clark (a minor charcter in \\"Cardinal of the Kremlin\\"), adds to the human element of the story.  The action is great, and although the language is at times pretty coarse, I enjoyed reading it.	2003-10-13
US	40167923	R2WPP451MH3UL1	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the best Ryan-Clancy books	While visiting London with his family, Jack Ryan heroically prevents an assassination attempt on the royal family by Irish extremists.  The terrorists, however, take the setback personally and follow Jack home and attempt to strike a blow on American soil.  After his wife and daughter are nearly killed, Jack is persuaded to join the CIA full-time and works to bring the terrorists to justice Tom Clancy-style.<br />While the story drags at times, like when Jack is recuperating in the hospital and his family is doted upon by the Royals, the action is great and very exciting.  Of all the Clancy books I've read this one seems to have the least number of plot lines to deal with, and as a result focuses more on characters and their motivations.  As good as the book is, however, I think the movie may be just as good or better.	2003-10-13
US	40167923	RD22HKEH4DJH4	0898159156	844422359	The Savage Garden: Cultivating Carnivorous Plants	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The best guide for cultiving carnivorous plants	If you've ever bought a venus fly-trap and had it die on you, but would still like to give it another try, this is the perfect book.  And not just for fly-traps, but nearly every other carnivorous plant out there!<br />This book is packed full of information on all kinds of plants that trap and eat insects.  But best of all, Peter D'Amato, who runs the largest retail store selling such plants, gives helpful advice on how to grow them.  Pretty much everything from soil mixes to light and humidity levels is detailed out here.  He even gives lists of plants that do well in different settings, such as windowsills, terrariums, and outdoor bogs.  And the writing style is such that it is easy to understand and follow, and even has a nice sense of humor.  And while the author's experience is growing them on the Pacific Coast, the advice is easily adaptable to other climates with some adjustment.<br />This is a must-have book for anyone interested in carnivorous plants - and the \\"bible\\" for anyone who hopes to grow them successfully.	2003-05-19
US	40167923	R34BHKQAJ4QXX9	0881925403	2822733	Carnivorous Plants of the United States and Canada	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent field guide to North American carnivorous plants	The book is a nice in-depth look at the carnivorous plants that are native to the United States and Canada.  The coverage is expecially thorough for Sarracenia, although still adequate (and probably more extensive than any other book available) on Drosera and Pinguicula.<br />The pictures included are mostly excellent, showing the plants in habitat when possible, instead of just using cultivated plants.  And although the distribution maps may be a bit dated, they are helpful to understand the general areas where the plants might be found.  Also, included with each section is some basic cultivation advice that I've found very helpful.<br />This isn't a book for a novice grower of carnivorous plants, but rather for someone who's been growing them for a while and wants more information on their native habitats and environments, as well as more technical information on each plant.  An excellent book.	2003-05-19
US	40167923	R2VQORJME3DWB6	0262690896	466667739	Carnivorous Plants (MIT Press)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Great for the collector, but probably not for a beginner	This book takes a look at the various types and species of carnivorous plants.  It is not an all-encompasing field guide and doesn't try to list every known species, but is a good introduction to carnivorous plants and the methods they use to trap prey and some of the more common species in cultivation at the time.<br /><br />Practical growing advice is at a minimum - for that it's better to see the author's later work [[ASIN:0906670357 Insect-eating Plants and How to Grow Them]] (recently reprinted as [[ASIN:1899296301 Insect Eaters]]), or a more recent book such as D'Amato's [[ASIN:0898159156 The Savage Garden]].  As I understand it, this was the first serious book devoted specifically to the study of carnivorous plants since the 1940's.  As such it is probably more suitable to the collector of carnivorous plants (and books about them) than someone who is trying to grow them.<br /><br />But still, I've heard Slack called the \\"Father\\" of modern carnivorous plant cultivation, and his books deserve respect for that alone.  The photos in the book are superb, although there are few, and most are B&W.	2003-05-19
US	40167923	RIWFSCUKSS0YR	0399131493	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A lot of fun to read, despite some shortcomings	Islamic radicals destroy a Soviet oil refinery to the point that an oil shortage threatens the Soviet economy. The USSR attacks NATO as a ploy to distract them from a planned attack on the Middle East and thus begins WWIII.<br />While I enjoyed this book very much it was quite depressing until NATO began to gain the upper hand, which wasn't until the last third of the book. I also found myself consulting a map frequently to better understand what was going on. As seems to be a trademark of Clancy books, there are nearly a dozen significant characters to keep track of, plus a couple dozen minor characters, many of whom are Russian and have very long names as well as nicknames. With all the names and places and military terminology it becomes a bit confusing to keep the story straight.<br />Perhaps my biggest complaint with the book is it's narrow focus on what was happening militarily. It never really tells you how the world is reacting to the events. Adding to the confusion is the fact that there's no timeline (I'd have guessed it was over in less than three months).<br />But none of that really keeps this book from being a very enjoyable read. The action is fast-paced and the characters are developed well enough that you can relate to them (once you remember who they are!). And the ending was very well done. Overall I'd give it 3.5 to 4 stars.	2003-01-03
US	40167923	R2TOLP1ATJSNFK	0803725906	589363421	The Great Brain	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My favorite from my childhood	The whole series of \\"Great Brain\\" books were my favorite when I read them as a kid.  I've since read the series to my kids and I still count them as some of the best books I've ever read.<br />The stories are told by John (J.D.), younger brother and often-time victim of Tom's (T.D.'s) \\"great brain\\" and \\"money-loving heart.\\"  They take place in small-town southern Utah at the end of the 1800's, but kids (and grownups) of all generations can easily relate.  Tom, the Great Brain, uses his cleverness to outwit and swindle most of the other kids in town, and many of the adults.  And while religion is often a force in the stories, it's handled with such tolerance that a lot of people could take a lesson from it today.<br />But the real magic of these books is that they're not just comedies, although many of the schemes are positively hillarious.  Sometimes Tom's plans have near-disastarous results, and the consequences that follow are very real.  Sometimes it can even be a bit frightening in the realism of life in the old west.  And quite often the stories can even bring a tear to your eye - one of my favorites (I think it was in the 2nd book) was \\"The Taming of Britches Doty.\\"<br />Again, I can't recommend this series highly enough.  They're not only fun to read but make you wish you could have grown up in a place like that.  I liked it even better than \\"Tom Sawyer\\" or \\"Huck Finn.\\"  And after you've finished this series you can read \\"Papa Married a Mormon,\\" also by the author, but written a little more for the grownups - if you can find it in a library, that is!	2002-12-06
US	40167923	R1SWH7C4UQ0GCQ	0399133453	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting, considering current world conditions	This is the first Clancy book I've read but I really enjoyed it.  The CARDINAL is a highly placed Soviet war hero who's been spying for America for 30 years.  Then the line is broken and the Americans feel the need for loyalty to get him out.  It's maybe not as action-packed as some of his other books, but the story was great and really made you empathize for the characters.  I was also impressed at how &quot;human&quot; many of the characters become, and whether or not you agreed with their actions, you could usually understand them.  It's also very interesting to read it now (2002), and reflect back on what the atmosphere was like when the Cold War was still going strong in the 80's, with the possibility (however real or not) of nuclear war.  It also felt strange to think of the Afghans as &quot;good guys&quot; and the Russians as the &quot;bad guys&quot; given the current state of affairs.	2002-12-06
US	40167923	R3DPXJA8517RSG	0451524918	53340599	The Mysterious Island (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	They don't write adventure stories like this anymore	While I read lots of new fiction, too, I still prefer the old classics.  I've read 3 of Verne's books (&quot;20,000 Leagues Under the Sea&quot; and &quot;Journey to the Center of the Earth&quot;) and this one was by far the best.  I couldn't possibly think of a better group of people to be stranded on an island with.  And while I'll acknowledge that the characters seem to be smarter and more resourceful than would be likely, or even possible, it was still a lot of fun reading the story.<br />I realize that many will find the relative lack of fast-paced adventure to be boring, but I found it very interesting.  Another of my favorite books is &quot;Robinson Crusoe,&quot; and reading these two books makes being stranded on an uninhabited island seem like a vacation (maybe not an easy or relaxing vacation, but a great escape, anyway!).<br />My only complaint was with the strangeness of the ending, but I didn't feel that it detracted from the story enough that I'd lower my personal rating from 5 stars.	2002-12-03
US	40167923	R1S27BWAKO2S8G	0767904575	339241053	The Emperors of Chocolate: Inside the Secret World of Hershey and Mars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Makes the cola wars look like a schoolyard scuffle!	I read this book as part of an MBA program, and it's the only book I've chosen to NOT sell back to the bookstore! Not only was the book thoroughly researched, but it was a lot of fun to read. The insights into an industry that everyone knows but knows little about are enough to keep you from putting the book down. It was so interesting I even finished this one while on vacation at the beach.<br />And I highly recommend the reader have a good supply of sweets on hand. Just reading about how Reese's peanut-butter cups are made, or the secrets of getting the M's just right on M&M's, or how the mystery of mixing milk and chocolate together was resolved, is enough to make your mouth water!<br />I just wish there were books as well-researched and well-written as this one on lots of other industries, too!	2002-12-02
