US	40240039	R3U52CAXMKXJ9Z	0375500332	929279308	Aretha: From These Roots	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Icing, But No Cake...	The bookcover is very nice.  I was a little disappointed with this book because I anticipated more than what was included in this book.  I feel like Aretha could have gone deeper.  David Ritz should have pulled more out of her as they wrote this book.<br /><br />It is clear that Aretha praises her father.  This seemed to be a \\"let me put some people in check\\" book.  Aretha dishes up DUST on several people that she has had negative encounters with over the course of her life (personal and professional).  If she was going to air the laundry, she should have just put all the DIRT right on out there for the readers.  She mentioned some names and then for some she kept their identity a secret.  She only provided the icing, but no cake...so why tell it at all?<br /><br />She handled the Sam Cooke issue very lightly.  Since she knew him personally and shared some things about them...I wanted to know her true feelings about the mystery that surrounded his untimely death.  But like the rest of the book...she left readers hanging and wishing that she had given more.  At any rate, I believe that she accomplished her mission or purpose which in my opinion was to set the record straight about her parents breakup.  Also to let all who had ever offended her, stepped on her toes or dissed her, know how she feels.<br /><br />It was of personal interest to me to learn how Rev. Jasper Williams came to be involved with her father's funeral.  So, I was surprised to see the details of how that came to be included in this book.<br /><br />One odd and unexpected thing that I did get from this book was some medical knowledge.  She mentioned an illness identified as \\"Pleurisy\\".  Since I had never heard the term before I researched it and it just so happens that I developed it after a two week bought with the Flu.  Thanks Aretha!  You helped me explain my symptoms to my doctor which led to a more speedy diagnosis and treatment.<br /><br />I am still a BIG FAN of The Queen of Soul regardless of this book.  Even though I rated this book with one star, I recommend reading it if you are a fan, want to stroll down the music memory lane, want to brush up on your some gospel and soul music history and civil rights history.regardless of this book.  Even though I rated this book with one star, I recommend reading it if you are a fan, want to stroll down the music memory lane, want to brush up on your some gospel and soul music history and civil rights history.	2005-02-15
US	40240039	RGL7KGN1SIO69	0374219125	705726379	Nat King Cole	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Slow Read But Well Done	This book was extremely long.  I skipped through parts of the first half.  It got interesting to me during the second half.  I was disappointed with the selection of photos.  I wanted to see more.  The writer did cover a lot of information.  The research was well done.  Yes, I would recommend it to anyone interested in Nat King Cole.	2005-02-05
US	40240039	R1U0GUK8IKU68F	0688124038	378151044	You Send Me: The Life and Times of Sam Cooke	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Sent Me There!	This was a well researched and written book.  I enjoyed it because it was packed full of history on music industry, the Civil Rights Era and The Man (Sam Cooke).  This book sent me there.  It was so descriptive, that I felt like I was actually there viewing the events as they unfolded.<br /><br />I am a Sam Cooke fan, but I did not know much about him.  This book provided me with an in-depth look at the man from a personal and professional standpoint.  His life was not picture perfect and his death is still surrounded by too much mystery.  I appreciate the author revealing such sensitive info and in such a way that it did not tarnish my image of the singer.<br /><br />This man's life had all the makings for a movie.  The book left me not wanting for anything.  I walked away full...no questions pending.	2005-02-05
US	40240039	R8QGMLS5RS3TC	059528731X	84762861	Feeling Poetic: A Book of Poetry	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Lady Poets & Poetry Lovers This Is A Good Read!	I enjoyed this poetic work from the heart.  If the potential reader loves poetry...this is a must!  If the potential reader is new to poetry, then this is a great introduction to the world of poetry.<br /><br />Pamela Jarmon, Author & Poet<br /><br />\\"Elusive Ink Rx Poetry\\"<br /><br />\\"Single Parent Support\\"<br /><br />Available on Amazon.com	2005-01-23
US	40240039	R3G0P2POJ7YTCI	097257090X	243644545	Wit, Will & Walls	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Passionate Wit	I enjoyed this book.  I had never heard of Betty Kilby Fisher prior to reading the book, but I agree that her story had to be told, preserved in book form and made available to the world.<br /><br />The bookcover photo says more than words could ever say.  I highly recommend this book not only to adults, but to young adults (High School Age) also.  The author selected a title that was very fitting.	2005-01-23
US	40240039	R3PEW5BVHMVF7I	0312267851	233151709	Terry McMillan: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Worthy of Being Written At This Time?  See Page 230...	I was suprised to see this 231 page bio on Terry McMillan.  It did not matter whether it was \\"authorized\\" or not.  So I had to read it because I LOVE & RESPECT Terry McMillan's books and have read all of them.<br /><br />The author of this book vents her frustrations of, in her opinion, having been dissed by T. McMillan.  Ms. McMillan did not assist her in the research, or support this book at all.  She quotes McMillan as saying, \\"I don't know why you people don't wait until I'm dead\\".  This takes me back to my initial suprise of seeing that a bio had been written.  I know what Terry McMillan's books and success has done for the African American readers and writers.  She made history and opened the door for a lot of writers to follow her.  YET...a bio already?<br /><br />The early years were boring.  I'm sure it could have been more interesting if Diane Patrick would have had actual input from Terry McMillan.  Instead she relied on historical facts of the time and place; also input from outsiders that had crossed paths with T. McMillan.<br /><br />The years after Terry left her hometown were more interesting.  Her college education, employment history and skills are chronicled.  Her time spent at the writer's colonies were discussed as well.  Diane Patrick is a great researcher.  She includes a wealth of history on other writers that she was able to link in with McMillan by any means necessary to make the book longer.  She states that there are many black writers now and that there is room for all!<br /><br />Page 230 contains her reason why this bio was worthy of being written.	2005-01-23
US	40240039	R1VGE6H224MXWV	0373872577	950846971	His Saving Grace (Sisters of the Heart Trilogy #1) (Love Inspired #247)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Warm Romance	If you like the romance genre, I highly recommend this book.  It is a warm romance novel that has characters such as Jack Lassater (computer wiz) and Gracie Petrov (office assistant) that have been developed in such a way, that the reader feels they know them personally.<br /><br />The romance gets off to a slow start, but don't sweat that because the story is filled with plots and real life issues that make for a good read.  The other characters in the book are Jack's business partner, Jack's divorced parents, Gracie's Dad, Sister, Brother-in-Law and two nephews.<br /><br />Grab your favorite drink and cozy reading spot as you embrace this tale of romance.  Find out if Jack and Gracie can make opposites attract?  Will Gracie's Dad and Jack's mom consumate a relationship?  Who is hacking the computer system of Jack's Dad?  Will Gracie's sister reconcile with her husband?  Will Jack forgive his father for leaving the family?  Will Jack accept his future Step-Mother?  Why does Jack's business partner seem to be so mysterious?  See this story has substance...ENJOY!	2004-12-08
US	40240039	RMVEXN5PR27WK	0898799724	568326491	Writing from Personal Experience: How to Turn Your Life into Salable Prose	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Solid Instructions	I learned so much from reading \\"Writing From Personal Experience:  How To Turn Your Life Into Salable Prose\\".  As a growing writer, I am always thirsty for techniques, strategies and advice.  The author of this book has provided just the tools that a writer or should I say student desires from a teacher, who has mastered the art and craft of writing from personal experience.<br /><br />This book is simple and quick to read.  It contains exercises after each chapter that will guide the writer to digging deep into one's self to bring out those personal stories.  It made me think about happy and sad events from childhood that I had not thought about in years.  It will instantly provide you with many topics or moments from your life in which to write about.<br /><br />After completing the thirty-nine chapters in this book, I feel that I am prepared to complete my book...a collection of personal essays.  The author takes the reader step by step into unlocking the emotions, memories and expressions of your past and present.  She also teaches the writer the basics that are sometimes taken for granted, but so essential for good writing.<br /><br />Many of the author's classroom students have sold pieces to The New York Times and other places.  She shares many stories about her students and how important rewriting is to the success of any work.  She defined writing from the inside versus the outside.  She also shed light on defining those that really want to be writers and those that just love the idea of being a writer and enjoy doing everything that writers do ...except write a book.<br /><br />I encourage any growing writer to read this book.  Sometimes you never know what you are missing...until you find it.  I found it in this book.<br /><br />PAMELA JARMON, AUTHOR OF \\"SINGLE PARENT SUPPORT\\"	2004-11-08
US	40240039	R3HIL0Z02FFE65	0786005343	932475404	I'm Not Dancing Anymore	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Family Loyalty & Unconditional Love...Up Close & Personal	Terri Baker has produced a well written book based on her eyewitness account of the O.J. Simpson murder trial and all that followed.  I feel that to say I \\"enjoyed\\" the book would be somewhat sadistic, but it was worth the read for anyone that had any type of interest in O.J. Simpson and/or the murder investigation and trial.<br /><br />This appears to have been a labor of unconditional love, self-analysis, loyalty, forgiveness and healing.  It took courage to write a book that is so personally revealing of herself, The Browns, The Goldmans, The Dream Team, Kato Kaelin, Paula Barbieri her Uncle O.J., Rockingham and the rest of the Simpson family.  As I read this book, I felt as if I was there among all the family, friends, groupies, media and those that were along for the celebrity ride.  Ms. Baker has given her readers an up close and personal view of everything one could imagine and then some things one probably had not thought of.  At times I felt she gave the reader more information than we really needed to know, but in order for the reader to fully understand...she had to let the reader into those sacred, private and personal moments.<br /><br />Her compelling accounts of the various incidents, conflicts, awkard moments and private moments made me feel her every emotion.  She provides information about Nicole that not even the tabloids exposed.  However, she did not provide a lot of information about Justin and Sydney, but I can understand her respecting the innocent children that have lost more than anyone in this entire ordeal.<br /><br />If you take away the \\"celebrity\\" from the Simpson Family...you have just about any family in the world.  The issues and family secrets that the Simpsons share are typical of many dysfunctional families.  But most people probably have never really analyzed things as deeply as Ms. Baker did.<br /><br />Upon finishing the book, I felt that Ms. Baker has made peace with her dysfunctional family, confronted and conquered her demons, picked up the pieces of her life that were lost during the trial and learned how to make lemonade out of lemons.<br /><br />The book left me wondering though...has O.J. ever shown any gratitude to his family for their dedication, love and loyalty during his ordeal.  Did he learn anything from all of this?  Has he read this book?  How does he feel about this book?  Some family members lost jobs and money by choosing to stand by his side all those months.  The traveling back and forth, the great financial expense and personal scarifice was a high price to pay.  I do hope that he eventually lavished his family with some financial blessings as he did for The Browns and others over the years.her demons, picked up the pieces of her life that were lost during the trial and learned how to make lemonade out of lemons. <br /> <br />The book left me wondering though...has O.J. ever shown any gratitude to his family for their dedication, love and loyalty during his ordeal.  Did he learn anything from all of this?  Has he read this book?  How does he feel about this book?  Some family members lost jobs and money by choosing to stand by his side all those months.  The traveling back and forth, the great financial expense and personal scarifice was a high price to pay.  I do hope that he eventually lavished his family with some financial blessings as he did for The Browns and others over the years.   <br /> <br />	2004-11-05
US	40240039	R1TWQPA7BEVPGJ	0743464710	324855079	Skinny Women Are Evil: Notes of a Big Girl in a Small-Minded World	Books	3	12	17	N	N	Healthy Self-Esteem...	Mo'Nique has crafted a funny semi-biographical book that had me laughing from start to finish.  The overall message in the book is positive, motivational and encouraging for BIG girls.  Mo'Nique has proven that no matter what she endured from childhood to her current success in Hollywood...the end result is a healthy dose of self-esteem!  She is able to make light (no pun intended) of fat jokes, small airline seats, exercise trials and tribulations, dating perils and the evil skinny women.  I enjoyed this light-hearted read that also included photos from her personal collection, a thin-o-meter, important years in big-girl history, how to identify the skinny evil ones, her favorite websites, a guide to getting the best grub in airports, dating tips, a who's who list of chubby men and big girls.<br /><br />At any rate Mo'Nique is laughing all the way to the bank.  U GO MO!!	2004-10-27
US	40240039	R25LMZWLIID7QR	1564143457	492326463	Toasts for All Occasions	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ALL Occasions...It's True...	The title of this book is justified.  It indeed does provide \\"toasts\\" for ALL occasions.  If you are one that has no idea of what to say, is short on words, not use to making toasts or your mind just goes blank at the thought of wording a toast yourself...then you must have this book.  If you are wordy, have a good memory or just need something to fuel your creative toasty flame...then this book is for you TOO.<br /><br />It provides toasts for every event imaginable and then a few that you would not imagine.  Some sections are redundant or have only changed a word or two in the toast, but it is still worth buying. There are short ones, long ones, poetic ones, funny ones, sincere ones and yes...even crazy ones<br /><br />You don't really know what you are missing, until you find what you have been waiting for...could this book be for you?	2004-10-27
US	40240039	R3FLXSJ48LK7NN	1400049202	366670641	My Daughter's Boyfriend: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent "BOLD" Debut	Cydney Rax has earned a thumbs UP with this debut novel.  It is an excellent read.  I must admit I was caught off guard with the steamy language, but that is part of entertainment and reality.<br /><br />I applaud the creativity and vison of this author to present a fresh story idea of a single mother training her daughter to have strong values and morals...YET straying herself from the righteous path.  Just as E. Lynn Harris paved the way for many to write about men on the down low and gay issues; I expect to see many others in the future writing about relationship triangles that society considers taboo.<br /><br />The mother does not practice what she preaches and ventures into the forbidden zone of dating her daughter's boyfriend.  This book is a page turner!  There were times that I wanted to kill the mother, castrate the boyfriend and counsel the daughter.  But there was never a predictable time.  I enjoy unpredictable reads.  The author did a great job of adding twists to the plot, just as it seems that things are cooling down and heading in one direction...things heat up again and take a turn.<br /><br />This thought provoking novel will stir up some interesting book club discussions.  Even though the mother and daughter obviously have a dysfunctional relationship, the author provides hope, healing and a redeaming ending.  I look forward to the next book from this author, I feel she will be an asset to the literary world.  Avid readers this book is a must...it is caliente!	2004-09-11
US	40240039	RBC7144XU5A0Q	0375760474	63738527	No More Mr. Nice Guy: A Love Story (Strivers Row)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Robinson Holds His Own With The BEST MALE Authors!!	No More Mr. Nice Guy was the first book that I had read by C. Kelly Robinson, but it will not be my last.  How many times has a man or woman let the dismal dating scene turn them from good to bad?  How many times have you seen a good guy finish last?  Well, my answer to both questions is numerous times; but never have I seen it taken to the level that Mitchell Stone's character embarked upon.<br />This book had me intriqued.  It was a page turner.  It offered a lot of insight on relationships, similar to the movie Love Jones.  But with or without the insight...this book is a must read.  You will be entertained from beginning to end.  Mitchell decides that if you can't beat them, join them after he finds himself trapped in the friendship zone.  He spent weeks being a perfect gentleman, while wining and dining Nikki (the love of his life).  Once he puts his cards and heart on the table, she dismisses him like a simple school boy.  He decided not to take his dismissal meekly.  He fast forwards their date and tells Nikki (page 5) \\"So how do we split this bill?  I can pay for the appetizers, but you'll need to handle your own entree, drinks and half the bottle of Chablis.\\"  I would pay mad money to see the look on Nikki's face (Hint, Hint...maybe this is movie material).<br />Mitchell sent out a memo inviting some brothers AKA The Dog Pound to a night of networking at O'Dells Chicken & Waffle Shack.  Even those that detest a potential Amway meeting would attend for free food.  The results of the meeting produced Tony and his consultant Trey.  They were going to train him on how to be a dog.  Tony lists six Dog Rules along with a disclaimer.  The story picks up speed as Mitchell implements the rules.  As he implements the rules, an unexpected chain of events throws his carefully crafted plan awry.<br />There are a host of clever characters that you will meet throughout this story.  The story is also told by both Mitchell and Nikki, which adds flavor and energy to the story.  C. Kelly Robinson is a master story teller that can hold his own with the best.  You will be on the edge of your seat in suspense pending the outcome of The Dog Rules and MItchell's relationship with Nikki.  Will he master the game or will the game master him?  The author supplies a reading group guide at the end of the book.<br />Kudos to C. Kelly Robinson for a great novel.  Thanks for extending the personal invitation to read this book.  It is nice to know that you read the reviews on Amazon.y.  C. Kelly Robinson is a master story teller that can hold his own with the best.  You will be on the edge of your seat in suspense pending the outcome of The Dog Rules and MItchell's relationship with Nikki.  Will he master the game or will the game master him?  The author supplies a reading group guide at the end of the book.<br />Kudos to C. Kelly Robinson for a great novel.  Thanks for extending the personal invitation to read this book.  It is nice to know that you read the reviews on Amazon.	2003-03-11
US	40240039	REJW4CVD4IBKX	1583143572	423298900	Taken For Granted	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poised, Perfected, Poignant!!	Earl Sewell, author of Taken For Granted, has penned an excellent novel that is at the top of my &quot;favorite list&quot; for 2003.  Taken For Granted is a novel that will carry you through some highs, lows and mellow moments.  It caused me to reflect on the possible outcomes of choices that we make in life, analyze the impact that one person can have on several other lives and triggered flashbacks from three books...The Upper Room, How Stella Got Her Groove Back and Set It Off.<br />This book is definitely poised for the big screen.  It would make an excellent stage play or movie.  The content and characters are so poignant and just enhances this well crafted novel.  This book is also a book club's perfect selection and makes for serious discussion and comments.	2003-03-11
US	40240039	R2DMRWGPMEXA5Q	0452284201	41344406	The Prodigal Project: Book 1: Genesis	Books	5	51	53	N	N	The End = The Beginning!	The Prodigal Project, Book 1, Genesis (289pp), lets you know up front that more books will follow...it is a series.  The end is yet the beginning for the men and women left behind after the Rapture.  All of the children (even the unborn) were taken up.  This book is NOT a carbon copy of the \\"Left Behind\\" series.  But if you enjoyed \\"Left Behind\\", you will love this book.  The people that remain on earth are very real characters.  You will feel that you know them or someone just like them.  They all have normal everyday flaws like Shannon who needed a little more time to get into the bible and church; Thomas was a divorced man who now had the desire to experience other women; Rev. Smith who lusted for a bigger church and seemed a bit too on edge for a man who has Jesus in his heart; Ivy a wife that fantasized about infidelity and harbored anger at God in her heart for birthing a handicapped child; Cat whose destiny seems to be entwined with the devil/dark forces and; Slim a photographer who witnessed an evil murder and was allowed to live afterwards.  These individuals will independently have to determine their purpose for being left behind and determine if their souls will pass the test for a second chance.<br />After the Rapture the world is in chaos.  It does not read like Science Fiction, but resembles the current state of our world after Sept. 11th, just on a heighteed scale.<br />The story is propelled with the inclusion of Azul Dante and Izbek Noir.  The readers will be intriqued as the story unfolds with good versus evil.  The only hope is The Prodigal Project, but what does it mean?  Get this must read book to find out.	2003-01-11
US	40240039	RZ081ECM9YXGV	0883682796	652767640	A Divine Revelation Of Hell	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Vivid View of HELL.	This book intriqued me; not because it revealed a revelation that any christian is not aware of...but because the author was unique in her way of painting the crystal clear picture of Hell in a way that I had never seen before.  At times the book seemed a bit repetituous, but I understand the objective, which is to save souls before it is too late.  The author takes the reader on a journey into Hell where we meet residents in Hell like the hard hearted cancer patient, backslidden Preacher, Whoremongers, Church goers living a double life and those that practiced Witchcraft.  We are reminded that lust and desires of the world are only for a season, but Heaven is for eternity.  Repent and forgive while you have life on earth.  I highly recommend this book and it is a quick read.	2003-01-04
US	40240039	R3EOHZ61ATQCCQ	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Simple Read = Life Changing Results!	I discovered this book working in the public sector...it was required reading for Management prior to reorganization.  This book is great!  It will prepare you to deal with change in any type of situation.  Nothing stays the same at work, school, home, marriage, partnerships, business etc.  We as people can get too comfortable and then change rocks your foundation.  Well, this simple story shows you how to mentally handle change in any capacity.  You will want to read it at least once a year as a refresher.  I was surprised to see that NFL players also read this book...	2003-01-04
US	40240039	RTL4VD7E89T5U	0883685248	837273396	A Divine Revelation Of Heaven	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Heaven Is Real...	This is the second book that I have read by this author and she is sharing divine insights given to her by God.  The author paints a very vivid picture of Heaven.  Scrptures are also provided.  I highly recommend this book for the sick and shut-in.  Patients that are terminally ill should be blessed and comforted to see or be reminded that Heaven is real.  It is a quick read.  The author may repeat some things too much, but give her credit for being obedient to God and trying to save souls.	2003-01-04
US	40240039	RQKE9BQT2LYMW	0609606077	695621782	Life and Def : Sex, Drugs, Money, and God	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Culture of Hip Hop Education 101...	I have always admired the business savvy Russell Simmons.  However, I am a forty-something mother whose son has adopted the hip hop culture.  I praise this book because it gave me a clear understanding and appreciation for hip hop, that I did not have in the beginning.  The book covers his life, the music indusry and business.  I really enjoyed this book and highly recomend it to parents that just don't understand.  It also contains some nice photos from Russell's personal collection.	2002-12-05
US	40240039	R1XX3F3B755CHU	1401300308	700439955	Foolish/Unfoolish: Reflections on Love	Books	5	1	6	N	N	The Essence of Poetry!	I enjoyed the opportunity to take a peek into a small chapter in Ashanti's world.  Poetry comes from the heart of one's life experience.  No two people are exactly alike, so who are we to judge the words.  Her poetry shows that she is human.  She is able to express herself and must be very secure to share this snapshot of life's experience with the world.	2002-12-05
US	40240039	R2MJAVIMIJLZWP	0743222784	224281852	His Insignificant Other: A Novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Is she just a friend?	Casey's world is turned inside out when her boyfriend's ex-girlfriend pops back into their lives.  The author could have told the story from a sizzling hot, juicy page turning point of view...but instead used a real life point of view.  Some readers may be bored by the unfolding of the story, but if the reader hangs in there...it is worth the read.  This story validates two cliches:  1)Some goodbyes are not goodbye.  2)He says she's just a friend...Yeah right.  In the end Casey must decide if love of herself/self respect is more important than a piece of man and his insignificant other.  Which does she choose?	2002-11-11
US	40240039	R2VVFHBFLC7377	0966673522	782568716	Women Please Wake Up: Men Know What They Want	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wake Up Call...	Deep discussion and insight into celibacy, sex, men, women and self-discovery.  Terri has done an excellent job presenting her case on how men and women view sexual relationships and celibacy.  I commend her for sharing personal life experiences to drive the message home.  The issues covered are very serious, but the author was able to spice it up with words of wisdom, a little humor and some old fashioned cliches.  This book is a must read for teens and adults still in search of that something missing from their lives.	2002-11-02
US	40240039	R1AQN8US05P5XL	0785256571	45217170	Extreme Encounters: Start Each Day On The Edge (Extreme for Jesus)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Extreme Encounters = Supreme!	The author of this book takes a uniquely different approach to putting together a collection of daily biblical devotions.  This is an excellent book for young adults because it speaks to them from the extreme point that many find themselves in and then provides a scripture reference.  The book is outlined for daily reading, but offers an alphabetical subject index for those who can't commit to daily reading.	2002-10-06
US	40240039	R1NLYFK7MTX7YH	0743246926	769740696	God's Gift to Women: A Novel	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Baisden Does It Again!!	Author extraordinaire has done it again.  His new book \\"God's Gift To Women\\" takes one night of passion and pushes the envelope OFF the table...beyond \\"Fatal Attraction\\".  This suspenseful tale introduces the reader to Julian Payne - an up and coming Radio Host who gets his big break at a Houston radio station.  His ratings are through the roof due to his profound advice on relationships.  He is also a reformed womanizer and single parent.  You will never forget Olivia - a sexy, hazel eyed woman with a dark side.  If you have ever met a Player...you will relate to Eddie - a bold womanizer with a live-in girlfriend.  Terri - A Good Woman.  Most people can relate to Denise - A Good Woman dating a No Good Man.  There are some other characters that help to propel this drama along.<br />This page turner will have you in suspense as one night of passion turns into Julian's worst nightmare.  You think you know...but you have to read this because you are in for a bigger thrill than you know.  The nightmare includes murder, poetry, kidnapping and a lot of relationship wisdom.  Who is willing to pay the price for their sins?  Which woman will realize that time is the most valuable thing and should not be wasted on players?  Will the men who think they are God's Gift To Women take heed from this book?	2002-10-01
US	40240039	R3QGN007XZ2A40	0399148833	499092823	God's Leading Lady	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Spiritual Inspiration &amp; Motivation	Ladies from all walks of life will be blessed from reading this book.  As always T.D. Jakes knows exactly how to deliver a blessing on a level that reaches the soul.  Ladies will put this book down and pick up rejuvenation, motivation, inspiration, wisdom, discernment and may even discover a spiritual gift that has laid dormant for years.  You owe it to yourself to read this book and then share it with another &quot;Leading Lady&quot;.	2002-10-01
US	40240039	R3DG9GLM9O63IT	059523366X	330759501	Elusive Ink Rx Poetry	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Positive Message In The Poetry.	A seasoned reader of poetry will appreciate the simplistic skill that Rx Poetry uses to illustrate the poems. The Haiku section will be confusing to someone who is not familiar with the definition of haiku or has never taken creative writing coures. A seasoned reader should realize that everything an Author brings to a book is not all about themselves. Authors present literture from various crafted angles as to protect privacy or shed light on an issue by selected means deemed applicable to the style of work. Sometimes fact is presented as fiction...sometimes fiction seems like fact, but it's real life and a form of entertainment. Overall this book is inspirational and a quick read.	2002-09-12
US	40240039	RCZEDYX204FLP	059523366X	330759501	Elusive Ink Rx Poetry	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Positive Message In The Poetry.	A seasoned reader of poetry will appreciate the simplistic skill that Rx Poetry uses to illustrate the poems.  The Haiku section will be confusing to someone who is not familiar with the definition of haiku or has never taken creative writing coures.  A seasoned reader should realize that everything an Author brings to a book is not all about themselves.  Authors present literture from various crafted angles as to protect privacy or shed light on an issue by selected means deemed applicable to the style of work.  Sometimes fact is presented as fiction...sometimes fiction seems like fact, but it's real life and a form of entertainment.  Overall this book is inspirational and a quick read.  Player-haters who must be jealous of the Author should get a life.	2002-09-12
US	40240039	RTSZGKO1FQMN1	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Excellent Story...Suspenseful Read.	...one of the most unforgettable books I have ever read.  Tim LaHaye conceived the idea of fictionalizing an account of the Rapture and the Tribulation.  It is a must read for both christian believers and non-believers.<br />In this book, the reader is introduced to Rayford Steele who has lost his family in the twinkle of an eye.  Millions around the world disappear.  He is on a mission to find out what happened to his family and eventually the truth as stated in the bible.<br />Believers will applaud this book in a time such as this.  With Sept. 11th and other world crisis...it seems as if prophecy is coming to pass.  Non-believers may see this as science fiction instead of christian fiction, but should appreciate a well written novel.  It may also help them re-think their beliefs.<br />There are over ten novels in this series and also a teen series for kids.  You will not want to put this book down and will be rushing to read the entire series.	2002-09-01
US	40240039	R262V2MO5CBC28	1583142541	811118172	The Prodigal Husband (New Spirit)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Plot Thickens...	The Prodigal Husband is a must read.  The Author combines romance and christian beliefs to create one well written book.  I might add that the television advertisement was a great move.<br />The title of the book is perfect.  Jake is the Prodigal Husband who strays from his wife Tori.  Sheila is the conniving business partner who succeeds in tempting Jake to commit adultery.  I was in shock at how devious Sheila was and how no act was beneath her...if it would break up Jake's marriage.  A tradgedy of the worst kind also weighs heavily on Jake and Tori's marriage survival.  The plot thickens to enhance this well crafted novel with a long kept secret as to why Aunt Kate does not care for the Madison men; Nicholas...the handsome writer who carries a torch for Tori and Charlene's strained relationship with Jake's brother.	2002-09-01
US	40240039	R18IOW6C9EDZPJ	1888018208	539016991	One Dead Preacher	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Must Read!	I usually don't gravitate toward mystery novels...but this one reeled me in like a fish on a hook.  The Author really knows how to write.  His way of telling a story had me captivated from the beginning to end.  Now, usually when I watch a mystery movie...I pride myself on putting the pieces together before the end of the movie...not true with this book.<br />By now you are probably saying, \\"She has not given a synopsis of the book yet!\\" and that is intentional, because I don't want to spoil this great mystery storyline by revealing any pertinent details.  ...I attended a book signing party in Austin, TX and had the pleasure of meeting Tony Lindsay.  He told me that it took him two years to complete this book and that he got inspiration from Walter Mosely, Robert Green and other mystery books.  He stated, \\"I wanted to write a mystery that was sexy, social and very black.\\" Well he accomplished his goal and it is a MUST READ.	2002-09-01
US	40240039	R32179K48Z25ST	0375507477	141548990	A Song Flung Up to Heaven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pleasurable Conversation With Maya...	\\"A Song Flung Up To Heaven\\" was one of my book club selections.  As much as I admire and respect Maya Angelou, I may not have read this, had it not been a book club selection.  I thought I already knew enough about her life...I saw the Oprah interview (smile).  But that is another positive reason to join a book club.  It pushes you to expand your reading selection horizons.<br />The author writes well and illustrates her points well.  Since this book is autobiographical in nature...character development was automatic.  I felt as if I was up close and personal with Maya Angelou.  Just two sister friends chatting about her life's journey and lessons.  It was also a history lesson in the chapters of her life that crossed paths with Malcolm X, Martin Luther King, Ruby Dee, Ossie Davis, Beah Richards, President Clinton and other recognizable names.<br />I was able to view her more as an ordinary woman instead of this larger than life awesome woman that has made her indelible mark in this world. I say this partly because she was taught some lessons in life that we all have to learn.  Her mother spoke words of wisdom like most...such as \\"Look to the hills from whence cometh your help.\\"  \\"You can tell a person by the company he keeps.\\" and \\"Never let your right hand know what your left hand is doing.\\"<br />Just as Maya visited the Audubon Ballroom for peace after Malcolm X's death, Upon visiting New York some years ago,I too needed to see where the Audubon Ballroom once was located.  I needed to envision in my own mind his last earthly chosen destination, for my own sense of peace or closure for the man that I admired for his great contribution.  So even though Maya's journey has been opposite mine, we all have common wants, needs and desires (no matter how great or small).<br />In reference to relatinships and meeting the other woman in her man's life, she stated, \\"...we were both rendered speechless by laughter.  We were both intelligent women who had been had by the sameman.  In more ways than one.\\"  As you flow from chapter to chapter...nearer to the end...you will smile because she still lives and will write again.	2002-08-16
US	40240039	R3IUMWTU1R7XHH	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Must Read...	This is the second book in the series.  It is just as awesome as the first.  Rayford Steele joins with Buck Williams, Bruce Barnes and Chloe Steele to form the Tribulation Force.  He now knows why and how his family disappeared with millions around the world.  The Tribulation Force is ready to fight the enemies of God.  Both Believers and Non-Believers will be on the edge of your seat as this page turner draws you into one of the greatest stories written.  This is a must read!	2002-08-10
US	40240039	R1QR28CU7VPWGC	0595204295	81826579	In-Law Drama	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Realistic DRAMA Burns The Pages Up!	In-Law Drama is told from Traci's point of view.  She has married into the Jenkins family and they are the in-laws from the deep, dark, pits of hell.  Her husband Paul is blind to the facts.  He is a happy-go-lucky sort of guy who appears to see the glass as full at all times.<br />The reader will rip with laughter from the humorous, yet realistic drama.  The Jenkins clan consist of Elvira the matriach minus the wicked broom, Junebug the patriach, Bertha the perfect sister who loves drama/mess, Mamie the sister who must be the center of attention at all times and Paul.  The flawed character traits within these in-laws makes for a lively and entertaining story.<br />This book had to be conceived from up close, first hand knowledge of people with these character traits.  Many women and men will be able to relate to the many incidents in in-law drama.  Even though the book is 103 pages, the author delivers a story of substance with NO holds barred.  She cuts to the chase.  Of course there was enough issues and characters, that if the author wanted...this could have been a 300 page book.  Personally, I like the fact that she cut out all the extra fluff of long drawn out descriptions and made it short and sweet.<br />This is the first novel from the author.  I look forward to her future publications.  Pass the word about this book.  It makes for a lively book club discussion.  It also ends with some positive insight into one's self...which shows that we can always take lemons and make lemonade, we can learn from any situation if we are open minded and personal growth comes when we least expect it.  It's a real page turner!	2002-06-04
US	40240039	R3GLUQZYB5LVVQ	0525946217	133527841	Near Perfect: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Warmhearted Romance With A Twist	\\"Near Perfect\\", a 325 page novel, is a good read.  I read it because it was my book club selection of the month and really enjoyed it.  I have been told that it is a follow-up to \\"Nothing But The Rent\\" which I have not read.  I did not get the impression while reading it, that it was a sequel.  It ended with a strong possibility for a follow up book...probably titled \\"The Other Side of Perfect\\".<br />\\"Near Perfect\\" finds Roxanne and Jamal happily married for 5 years.  The only thing missing is a bouncing bundle of joy...which they are having trouble conceiving.  Jamal does not have the usual characteristics of most NFL stars.  After one night out at a strip club, Jamal combines alcohol, medication and fatique...which are ingredients for disaster.  I was hanging on the edge of my seat as the story unfolded.  Did Jamal actually have sex with the stripper, Honey Brown?  Did he father a child from a questionable one night stand?  Did the stress from his deadly secret lead to his untimely death?  Do we women really teach men how to treat us without realizing it?<br />As the story did unfold, Roxanne needed all the support she could get.  Her dysfunctional family fall short, but her girlfriends pick up the slack.  Eventually the story takes a suprising twist as Roxanne's best friend Linc (also her husband's best friend) has to decide what to do about his strong attraction and desire for her.  Can best friends become lovers and grow together?  Well, if there is a follow-up...that would be the central issue and why I previously stated it could be titled \\"The Other Side of Perfect.\\"	2002-05-30
US	40240039	R2J25M7TU5A3B9	0345444957	605284938	Growing Up X	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Intimate, Up Close and Personal...Must Read!	In 235 pages, Ms. Shabazz takes the reader on a compelling and intimate journey that has not been revealed prior to this book.  She shares her personal coming of age story.  Some of the details released were extremely sensitive, yet I imagine a &quot;healing&quot; came from revealing them.<br />She humbly discusses the priviledged life that she and her sisters had.  This consisted of attending predominately white private schools, socializing with Hollywood stars, dating professional athletes, membership in Links, Jack and Jill of America, various housekeepers etc.  Her life has been the total opposite of what I would have imagined it to be.<br />In reference to her father (Malcolm X) she does not repeat his autobiography.  Instead, she uses this area wisely to clear up some myths and misconceptions about him and his parents (The Littles).  For example, Rev. Earl Little was a Baptist minister who helped organize the Marcus Garvey United Negro Improvement Association.  Louise Norton Little spoke five languages, taught her children to sing the alphabet in French and was the recording secretary for the association that her husband helped organize.  This information helped prove that Malcolm X was insightful, disciplined and educated by his parents and NOT Elijah Muhammad and The Nation.  She says that Mr. Muhammad helped Malcolm X grow by clearing away some the negative seeds of discouragement planted by white school teachers in his youth which led to his petty crimes etc.  She shares other insightful information that gives the reader more insight into the articulate and charming Malcolm from his youth.  I was shocked to learn how old Ilyasah Shabazz was when she first visited her father's grave.  Find out about Malcolm X's siblings that were a part of the Nation too.<br />In reference to her mother (Dr. Betty Shabazz) this story shows how much she admired her mother.  It is a moving tribute to both parents.  Any struggling female single parent that reads this, can't help but gain inspiration and motivation to better themselves.  Dr. Betty Shabazz's life shows determintaion to advance in education, rear well rounded children and be the keeper of her husband's legacy.<br />I attended her Houston Book Signing.  She was very humble.  It was obvious that this book was a must for several reasons.  She needed to shatter the myths and notions of what people assume a daughter of Malcolm X to be.  As she read warmly from page 95...I glanced around the room and saw many smiling faces.  She touched on a radio caller from earlier in the morning who all but demanded that she lend her name to support a racial situation that was brewing in a section of Houston.  She firmly reiterated that she needs to fulfill her purpose in this life...not her father's.  She promised that the book would clear up all the media myths surrounding her nephew that set the fire, which eventually claimed the life of Dr. Betty Shabazz. The book fell short of answering my questions about her nephew, but I can understand why she probably opted to approach that topic in her selected manner.  At any rate, this book is a must read.  Do some high school grads a favor and give them this book, along with The Autobiography of Malcolm X.  Not only will they get a valuable history lesson, but they will walk away with the deep message that education is important...the key to financial security, independence etc...and unlike fame, favor, wealth...once acquired, it can't be taken away.  Find out what Ms. Shabazz feels was her father's greatest gift to African Americans.  Discover Malcolm X as a loving father who read poetry to his girls and a husband.  See 16 pages of never seen before black and white photos from her personal collection.  Take a peek into what is was actually like to grow up &quot;X&quot;.t help but gain inspiration and motivation to better themselves.  Dr. Betty Shabazz's life shows determintaion to advance in education, rear well rounded children and be the keeper of her husband's legacy.    <br />I attended her Houston Book Signing.  She was very humble.  It was obvious that this book was a must for several reasons.  She needed to shatter the myths and notions of what people assume a daughter of Malcolm X to be.  As she read warmly from page 95...I glanced around the room and saw many smiling faces.  She touched on a radio caller from earlier in the morning who all but demanded that she lend her name to support a racial situation that was brewing in a section of Houston.  She firmly reiterated that she needs to fulfill her purpose in this life...not her father's.   She promised that the book would clear up all the media myths surrounding her nephew that set the fire, which eventually claimed the life of Dr. Betty Shabazz. The book fell short of answering my questions about her nephew, but I can understand why she probably opted to approach that topic in her selected manner.  At any rate, this book is a must read.  Do some high school grads a favor and give them this book, along with The Autobiography of Malcolm X.  Not only will they get a valuable history lesson, but they will walk away with the deep message that education is important...the key to financial security, independence etc...and unlike fame, favor, wealth...once acquired, it can't be taken away.  Find out what Ms. Shabazz feels was her father's greatest gift to African Americans.  Discover Malcolm X as a loving father who read poetry to his girls and a husband.  See 16 pages of never seen before black and white photos from her personal collection.  Take a peek into what is was actually like to grow up &quot;X&quot;.	2002-05-29
US	40240039	RO8O01PNS3G1M	0967460182	762963312	The Sex Chronicles : Shattering the Myth	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Did You Say Kama Sutra?	Yes, I said Kama Sutra!  That is the first word that came to my mind after reading this book.  The Sex Chronicles:  Shattering The Myth is a 287 page book that I put in a class all itself...those longtime fans will call this genre Erotica.<br />This was my first encounter with this type of literature, but I am open minded enough and adventuous enough to read another of Zane's books.  I had heard all the hype about Zane...Zane...Zane.  But I was not prepared for her boldness, creative imagination, sexual fantasies and the new use for mouhwash (I must be getting old...I still think about whip cream).<br />This book consist of forty short stories or sexual escapades that will captivate, entertain and maybe even stimulate the reader.  Book sales for this author are through the roof.  Readers have proven that there IS A MARKET for african american erotica.<br />The book also contains excerpts from other books by Zane such as \\"Addicted\\", \\"The Heat Seekers\\" and \\"Shame On It All\\".  Comments from readers are also included which I though was a good idea.  I enjoy hearing what others are saying about a book.  If you are into erotica...this book will definitely be an asset to your collection.  If you are a first timer like myself...put on your seat belt and throw caution to the wind!	2002-05-13
US	40240039	R1K8Y56YU4XVFJ	1583142347	157252150	A Chocolate Affair	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Entertaining Journey...Sisterhood.	A Chocolate Affair, paperback, 232 pages...eye catching book cover design.  I was told that this book was a sequel to Chocolate Star and that it was best to read Chocolate Star first...NOT TRUE.  I have not read Chocolate Star and I don't feel that it diminished the effect of a Chocolate Affair at all.  Overall I enjoyed the book.  There were a few areas that consisted of idle, meaningless conversation which I assumed were fillers for the Author attempting to reach a certain word count.  But the four female characters' glamourously dramatic lives kept me turning those pages.  It somewhat reminded me of Waiting To Exhale...with ingredients like friendship, strength, support, love, sisterhood and fine men.<br />The title of the book was a bit deceiving, but ever so appropriate.  I won't spoil the reader's journey by revealing any more on the title.  The Author has developed some quality characters who definitely come to life on the pages and in the readers' mind.  The characters are all rich, exciting and very attractive.<br />So get this book and meet:<br />KEISHA- Husband plays for the NBA.  Will he cheat on her?  She says she is not perfect...just forgiven.  She puts the pieces together to a major top secret puzzle which must be leading to the Author's third novel.<br />TOPAZ- Singer living in L.A.  Drinks so much Cristal that she not only should own stock in it, but should put a nipple on the bottle and forget the glass.  Had several failed relationships before realizing that the first one should have been the keeper.  Will she win him back?<br />NINA- Aspiring writer.  Received engagement ring from man that she doesn't love.  Will she marry him anyway?  Will she get a book deal?  This girl's life is full of suprises.<br />JADE- Artist and wife of a great NBA player.  Gorgeous, but dealing with some serious issues such as low self-esteem.  Will she sabotage her perfect life and marriage?	2002-04-10
US	40240039	R344BWBA6BWQ94	0964367580	657596427	Never Satisfied: How & Why Men Cheat	Books	5	5	5	N	N	In Your Face...TRUTH!	I applaud Michael Baisden for putting the real deal in print from a male perspective.  Never Satisfied is a book which contains in your face truth (in an entertaining and sometimes humorous manner).  I purchased this book when it was first released, but over the years have consistently pulled it off my book shelf to share with other female friends.<br />The chapters are titled very appropriately:  1)Tricks of the Trade 2)Creating A Monster 3)Three To Tango.  Most of the &quot;player&quot; games mentioned are not new or even a secret to most...but any woman who has ever been cheated on (or vice versa) will appreciate the validation of the various tricks.  Most men will never own up to committing these tricks; instead the average cheating man tries to make the woman think she is crazy, too jealous or possess an over active imagination (when she suspects his cheating).  Thanks to the author of Never Satisfied...every man and woman can read this book and identify themselves and the games/role each played.  It's common sense for most, but for those naive women who don't own a copy of this book...PURCHASE NOW!<br />For those of you who have never heard of Michael Baisden, he is a serious brother.  Serious about his craft of writing and helping the readers to better understand realtionships.  He has appeared on BET's Oh Drama and several other television talk shows.  In Houston he briefly had a weekly call-in/talk radio show on KMJQ (102 FM) with Funky Larry Jones.  The radio show ended when he had to devote more time to his own television show &quot;Talk or Walk&quot;.	2002-02-05
US	40240039	R3OYRH9T2CEU9E	0446527998	734163607	Church Folk	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Delightful!	Church Folk follows the rise of a young black up and coming Rev. Theophilus Simmons at Greater Hope.  The story begins in 1960 and travels through to 1963.  The story gets off to a slow start, but by midpoint the reader is locked into some \\"real\\" church mess.  The author sprinkles in a little here and there about Martin Luther King Jr. and the Civil Right Movement to set the tone for the time period in the 1960s, but the primary focus is on church folk and scandalous behavior.<br />As holds true today, some church folk are full of the devil.  Some Ministers don't practice what they preach.  You will laugh and get angry with the church folk.  The story has betrayal, power struggle, infidelity, adultery, revenge, true love, Pastor rivalry and a few Pastors running a Prostitute service from a funeral home.<br />The author introduces the reader to some colorful characters.  A few are Glodean Benson, Uncle Booker, Lee Allie, Essie, Mr. & Mrs. Jarvis, Sister Willie Clayton, Mrs. Coral Thomas, Mr. Pompey, Bishop Caruthers, Rev. Marcel Brown and Cleotis Clay.<br />The young and handsome Rev. Simmons has made mistakes, but is determined to do God's will.  He is serious about not getting caught up by the temptation that comes with being a prominent pastor (liquor, money, politicking and women).  He wants to make sure that church positions go to the most qualified members instead of those who gave the most money.  He has to put his full armor on to fend off \\"temple prostitutes\\" and \\"sanctified tramps\\" or women who would do ANYTHING to become the First Lady.  This was one of the selected readings for my book club and I recommend it for other book clubs.  It is delightful and you will enjoy all 352 pages.	2002-01-30
US	40240039	R15VLSEF7FHRGT	0884194345	203378691	Daddy Loves His Girls	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Much Needed Spiritual Food!	As always T.D. Jakes delivers a powerful and blessed message.  In &quot;Daddy Loves His Girls&quot;, he speaks to the mind, heart, soul and spirit of women from all walks of life.  If you are a woman or father of a daughter...THIS BOOK IS A MUST READ!  As you read each page, you will grow a little more.  By the end of this book you have a perscription for WHOLENESS in life.<br />T.D. Jakes also provides examples from his own family life, which gives the reader an up close and personal feeling.  Some readers need those applicable real life situations in order to interpret the message to the fullest.  For those who could do without the life's application...he has also provided Bible Scripture Quotations.  I highly recommend this spiritual food...it will be a blessing.	2002-01-30
US	40240039	R2KDZDZVIWYDEZ	0743214331	528703759	Satin Doll: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent....A Great Book Club Selection!	WOW! This book made my unforgettable list.  Any woman who has experienced TRUE friendship with her homegirls...you know a true sistah-friend who has seen you with your mask off will absolutely ENJOY this book.  I feel a true friend is one who has seen your good, bad and ugly...but still accepts you unconditionally as their friend.  I don't want to leave the men out because you all will be able to relate to the brothers involved too.<br />Not only does the author explore some very emotional and sensitive areas of friendship, but she also dives deep into class distinctions and relationships.  The reader is guaranteed to be able to identify with some of the situations.  You will not want to put this book down as you experience the personal issues of Regina, Yvonne, Tamika and Puddin' who all come from Harlem.<br />Why did Regina want to hide her past from Charles?  Can one really forgive the envious, backstabbing, betrayal of a life-long friend?  Can &quot;old money&quot; upper-class people accept someone who has not been in their social circle since birth?  Does a person who pulled themselves out of poverty and became successful really &quot;belong&quot; the same as everyone else?  Have you ever longed for something only to find out it was highly over-rated?  Find the answers to these questions and more as you laugh, cry and admire the unforgettable characters in this excellent novel.  The author deserves an award for her magnificent way of developing characters, scenes, drama and allowing the reader to really feel what is happening.	2002-01-14
US	40240039	R12XVMO3CXI053	0446530522	77058110	Cane River (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Move Over Roots!	This is another labor of love that connects the dots for future generations.  It is dejavu for some and a history lesson for others.  Lalita Tademy is to be commended for this great novel that is based upon her ancestors.  After reading it, I certainly see why it was one of Oprah's book club selections.<br />Lalita Tademy's family tree has been traced back seven generations.  The story is set in Louisiana.  Without overkill the Author depicts slavery, Civil War,  plantation life, class struggles between White/French/Creole/Mulatto/Quadroon/Black, race mixing, the different bonds between slaves &amp; slave owners and FREEDOM.<br />The primary focus is on four generations of women...Elisabeth born 1799, Suzette born 1825, Philomene born 1841 and Emily born 1861.<br />I took away with me respect for each woman's tough decisions in life.  Each generation had it's can of worms to deal with, but through the kaleidoscope of hope, youth, family, pain, hurt, suffering, humiliation, inferior treatment, servitude, love, lost love, sex on demand for slave owners, money, power, land, education, murder, obsession with &quot;good hair&quot;, being &quot;color struck&quot;, catholic religion, selling away of family members...the following was steadfast for each generation:  strength, determination, sacrifice, family and dreams for a better life for their children.<br />Photographs of family members, actual documents such as tax receipts, supreme court records, newspaper articles, census data, actual handwritten letters and excerpts from Cousin Gurtie Fredieu validate and help breathe life into Cane River.<br />Do you know what it feels like to be considered better than dark skinned, but not good enough for white skinned?  How a son can be aware of his beloved father's murder plot, but helpless to save his life?  How a woman feels to have psychic visions and see them all come to pass?  Have youthful hopes budding, but have them cut off before they bloom?  Can you imagine the feel of outsmarting what is suppose to be superior over you?  How far would you go to help better your family?  Can you imagine having been told that your baby is dead and twenty plus years later being told that it was an outright lie?  Well experience the answers to these questions and MUCH MORE when you read Cane River.<br />This is an excellent book club selection.  I would personally love to see this made into a TV Movie like &quot;Roots&quot;.outsmarting what is suppose to be superior over you?  How far would you go to help better your family?  Can you imagine having been told that your baby is dead and twenty plus years later being told that it was an outright lie?  Well experience the answers to these questions and MUCH MORE when you read Cane River.  <br />This is an excellent book club selection.  I would personally love to see this made into a TV Movie like &quot;Roots&quot;.	2002-01-11
US	40240039	R34KHO9E3KCMNT	0533092655	144066501	A Guide to the Scriptures	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must for such a time as this!	This book was a labor of love.  I enjoyed it and keep it handy for Godly counsel with other individuals.  It is excellent for a quick reference to frequently needed bible scriptures.  It also contains a few topics that most books in this category do not contain...so it is a MUST have for that person who is on &quot;that Christian Journey&quot; in life.  It is a quick read, 59 pages and the table of contents leads you to the exact topic of your choice.  This book is a hard back and makes an excellent gift also.  All biblical quotes are from the King James Version.  Buy it today and be blessed!	2001-12-12
US	40240039	RIGP1LCRU8CHB	1575669102	297854080	The Upper Room	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pure suspense and drama with a lot of humor blended in.	I had never heard of this author or the book.  I read it based only on the recommendation of a fellow avid reader who said, &quot; It's good...you must read it&quot; and she did not reveal the synopsis.<br />Well I must confirm that it is a great story.  I don't want to give away any of the story...all I will say is that it has action, drama, suspense, murder, humor, memorable characters, mysticism and the author knows how to paint a very vivid picture of necessary details.<br />This page turner will have you chuckling out loud and makes an excellent selection for book clubs to discuss.	2001-12-12
US	40240039	R2JA7IQPUSN75B	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Motivational/ Reference Tool	If you want a motivational tool to assist you in overcoming financial illiteracy, advice on what to do with money once you make it, how to keep people from taking money from you, how to make your money work for you and see how highly educated professionals get locked into the rat race...this book is for you.<br />I saw Robert T. Kiyosaki on Oprah discussing this book.  I purchased the book days after the interview.  This is a book that you want to purchase extra copies for your friends and loved ones that do not have six figure incomes.  You will not want to loan your copy out and you may want to have a highlighter handy once you begin reading it.<br />If you are a person that makes a six figure salary...this book is NOT for you (you should already know the basic financial principles, have a financial planner and accountant) unless you just want to add it to your resource library and write it off on your taxes.	2001-12-09
US	40240039	R1ZSVFDZE9YEOY	0312978839	908403901	A Family Reunion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	True Passion And Romance!	Brenda Jackson must dream in color.  This book is a must read.  I simply did not want to put it down.  It is in paperback and the price is low, but the quality of her story telling skills is priceless.  I was transported to a time in my own life by being able to relate to her very vivid way of setting the stage.  Ms. Jackson has an excellent eye for details and illustrations.  I felt as if I were there with the Bennett family.<br />I personally enjoy a book with characters that I can relate to.  I think most readers will be able to put himself in the shoes of either Taye, Michael, Alexia, Raejean, Idella or Poppa Ethan...OR know someone else who fits their shoes.  Ms. Jackson really knows how to turn up the heat on the steamy love scenes.  She knows TRUE PASSION and ROMANCE.<br />Can you imagine a family reunion where the relatives have not all been together in fifteen years?  Well that within itself makes for a lot of adventure.  All families have secrets, rivalries, love/hate relationships, success, failure, tears, laughter, faith and hope.  The Bennetts are no different as you will see once you purchase this awesome book.  It is an easy read.  You will laugh and cry.  But most of all you will never forget this incredible family.  This book also makes for some lively book club discussion.	2001-12-01
US	40240039	R3UGF7HG2KVFN	0966232879	652154431	How to Self-Publish & Market Your Own Book: A Simple Guide for Aspiring Writers Includes Special Section for Women & Minority Writers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A must read for aspiring writers who will self publish.	This book contains a vast wealth of crucial information for the self publisher.  Mack and Sara have done an excellent job of outlining the steps and providing additional reference information.  A few of the the topics covered are the publishing industry, starting a business, ISBN &amp; copyright info, book cover designs, publicity campaign, media release, budget, advice, tools of the trade and literary organizations.<br />Mack and Sara conduct regular free workshops at local Houston bookstores.  I highly recommend this book for all aspiring literary entrepreneurs.  Add it to your resource library prior to embarking on the publishing journey and it will help you avoid mistakes.  If you have already begun the journey, it is still a must read for future references.<br />I am speaking from experience.  I am included in the large number of self published literary entrepreneurs.  This book provided me with expert advice, motivation and encouragement.	2001-12-01
US	40240039	RC72182970UE7	0684862883	165139288	This Side of Eternity	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Triumph over Tragedy	If you are looking for a carbon copy of her sister Terry McMillan...this is not the book for you.  Rosalyn definitely has her own style and voice in her literary works.  A lot of historical facts were researched to set the stage for Anne Russell's story to come alive in Memphis during the 1960s.<br />I enjoyed this book although it was a slow read.  However I can appreciate it being a slow read due to the intense details of the past, the complicated lives of the characters and the thick plot.  My heart was breaking as I read about more tragedy than any one family should have to bear, but at the end I was able to breathe a sigh of relief and close the book at peace because it ended on a positive...somewhat triumphant note.<br />This book also creates a lot of detailed discussion for Book Club members.  Also, don't miss this author's book signings.  As I stated earlier she has her own style in more ways than one.  I enjoyed the promotional chewing gum packs and t-shirts that she gave away in support of this book.	2001-12-01
US	40240039	R1SXE96Q8XK097	1888018232	763974380	Kupenda: Love Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Kupenda is a &quot;must add&quot; to your book collection!	This poetry book was a real page turner.  I enjoyed the poetic thoughts of a black man glowing from the kiss of love.  Kupenda's ingredients had a touch of romance, wit, urban, hip flavor that I feel all poetry/spokenword lovers will enjoy.	2001-11-30
