US	40325486	R2QFFSTKYOXFTY	0553803840	336212629	Diabesity: The Obesity-Diabetes Epidemic That Threatens America--And What We Must Do to Stop It	Books	5	27	28	N	N	It will scare the French fries right out of you...	Two months ago I was told by my doc that a recent blood test showed me to be on the edge of diabetes. He suggested that I give up red meat, egg yolks, fried foods and dairy products, and eat more fruits, vegetables and salads, using soy milk for protein, etc. I did so, and last week my test results showed a retreat from the danger zone for blood sugar, and a loss of eight pounds. So I've been told to stay the course with the new eating and add some exercise. I am 60, only five-foot-seven, and weighed 240 pounds when the bad blood was sucked from my arm on June 28th. Although I am in no danger of needing insulin injections soon, as an obese white male of a certain age and sedentary habits, I am at high risk for this terrible disease of diabetes. So I got this book. It is frightening, but well-written, and well-documented, by an M.D. who really knows her stuff. After reading it, I am more afraid for my wife, adult children, and teenage daughter than for myself. If you want a book that might really push you into better eating and more activity by explaining the realities of living with diabetes, get this one.	2005-09-21
US	40325486	R103QAGRM46CJO	034545345X	457341957	Killing Time: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Mystery with a sci-fi twist is light fun...	This is my second Linda Howard book, and I enjoyed both of them. She seems to either enthrall or disappoint her fans, with not many reviews inbetween the raves and the pans. I liked the characters, found the plot good enough, and was satisfied with the ending. Of course, my copy came from the library, so I wasn't out any cash. If you enjoy detective novels, time-travel trouble tales, and light romances featuring men and women who develop lust and love for each other while they are in danger, give this a try.	2005-09-12
US	40325486	R2MC7Y6UXHGU6G	0440241359	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Atmospheric, but not quite enough action...	I enjoyed the Princeton University tour which is a prominent part of this intellectual mystery novel. I grew up near the campus and in high school and college (mine was five miles down the road from P.U.), I did a lot of homework in Firestone Library. This was 40 years ago, and anyone could come and browse the open stacks, some containing books printed 300 years earlier. Apparently, these were not considered rare enough by this affluent university to merit being housed in the \\"rare\\" books room, which did have restricted access. I recall envying P.U. students and their study carrels along the walls of the Gothic and gorgeous library building.  <br /> <br />So, the Princeton scenes resonated with me almost as much as they will with true alumni. However, the actual story is overlong, digressive, a bit dull in spots. When \\"action\\" finally appears, much of it seems overdone, which is also true of the more famous \\"DaVinci Code.\\" However, the latter title holds one's interest much more firmly than \\"The Rule of Four.\\" Its authors, however, do show great promise, and I hope they have another project in the works. This one is almost too intellectual, but it is also clever and intriguing in parts.	2005-07-18
US	40325486	R30P1PQY7GNFWK	0312306261	643244690	Eleven on Top	Books	4	0	1	N	N	I'm not tired of Stephanie Plum yet...	and this, the 11th entry in the comic/thriller series, ranks probably in the middle of the pack for laughs. Janet's novels even make me miss Trenton a little, where I spent the first 27 years of my life. Some of her streets are fictional, some real, and when Stephanie drives down an avenue I used to travel, I get nostalgic. I even taught school for a year in the real Chambersburg section, probably only blocks from the home of Stephanie's parents. Janet herself does not have my depth of actual living experience in Trenton, but she sure captures the ethnic and comic and criminal characters who inhabit the city accurately. Each Plum book starts up not long after the last one, so it takes \\"years\\" for the fans to follow her and her loves and losses and accidental victories in the bail bond business, while Steph and her family and friends are living only through \\"months.\\" In this outing, the Stiva Funeral Home, Grandma Mazur's favorite hangout, becomes a major player, as does Steph's woeful sister, Valerie, whose life after high school has been a downhill run. The romantic triangle of Steph, Joe and Ranger continues, with Bob the dog getting in a lick or two as well. \\"Eleven on Top\\" is a strained title, and may refer to something sexual, but the book as a whole is typical Evanovich. That makes it worth reading. This one starts out a bit slower than most, but has a strong middle before wrapping up in a lesser finish. Although mystery legend Dick Francis is a very different kind of author than Janet, I used to buy his books on the first day of issue and have them read within 24 hours. Same with Evanovich. Once you begin, you tend to stick it out and get the 300 pages digested as quickly as possible.  <br />	2005-07-06
US	40325486	RVHJ6I0VBX1IP	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	2	5	N	N	As good as, maybe even better, than "DaVinci Code"...	That's my opinion. Neither book is a masterpiece of thriller literature, but each is good enough for a week's entertainment. Neither work is the least bit credible in terms of its villains and why they do what they do, but no one can deny the sheer fun of secret society assassins. In this book they attack the Catholic power center in Rome. The weakest part of this \\"action movie between hard covers\\" is the climax, featuring a rogue priest, a conclave needing to elect a pope,a clergyman helicopter pilot, and seemingly miraculous rescues and deaths. Don't take it seriously, and you can have a good time. The same can be said about \\"DaVinci Code\\" which is a sequel to this one, featuring the same hero. That book makes one think the Vatican is the villain through most of the story, because of its need to cover up an alleged \\"married with children\\" lifestyle for Jesus. Ignore the fictional history of early Christianity and just enjoy the thrill of the mystery itself. Mr. Brown has earned a busload of bucks for \\"Code\\" and its fans then went back and grabbed \\"Angels and Demons.\\" If you enjoy unrealistic suspense novels with mini-lessons in history and art and religion, these books will please.	2005-06-26
US	40325486	ROVZZWIINMOXB	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unevenly composed, but ultimately worthwhile tale...	Author Lawrence McAuliffe doesn't hit his stride until this novel is halfway done. The first half comes off as awkward to me, as it introduces the main characters, first in Vietnam in 1968 and then through the next 30 years back home in the USA. The second part, a journey back to 'Nam to try to solve the mystery of a missing soldier that neither of the two main characters knew well, yet neither ever forgot, is much richer and makes the reader's own journey satisfying. Only part of the mystery is resolved, and that is a lot like life, isn't it? <br /> <br />There are more than 40 reviews already posted here, and those readers all seemed to like the book, even more than I did. This is a spiritual quest, but subtle, and there are so many ways this novel might have been shaped that one can quibble with McAuliffe's choices while still admiring his basic plot. Read about ten of the other reviews and you will find plenty of details about the characters and why they are brought together.  <br /> <br />A few of the other critics think this could make a good film. I agree, but it would take a special screenwriter to reshape the novel into a successful movie narrative. McAuliffe has laid down the elements of a powerful experience: young soldier suffers traumatic wounds, commits a heinous act, and apparently runs off to make amends, but may have died before he ever got the chance. A cynical reluctant officer, and a steady career sergeant, having encountered the troubled boy before his disappearance, come home from the war and get on with their lives. They meet sporadically over the decades, always with the boy's fate an uncertain and uncomfortable bond between them. Finally the opportunity comes to go back to Southeast Asia and track down rumors that a man fitting his description may have survived for 30 years in the mountains and Buddhist monasteries. How the search turns out is the heart of the story. <br /> <br />McAuliffe has talent, and certainly can build on this book tocreate even better ones. As with a lot of writers who are just starting the commercial journey, his insecurity shows not only in the rough beginning, but in his choice of subtitles: \\"Purple Sun\\" is a fine name for the book, referring to one of the monasteries. But \\"An epic tale of war and redemption\\" is overstated...it is a tale of war, but only briefly, and of redemption, but in an ambiguous way. The word \\"epic\\" is inaccurate. This is actually a small, quiet book, aimed at thoughtful readers. The other subtitle, \\"leading from the mountains of Vietnam to the mountains of Wyoming\\" is not needed, and its presence detracts from the worth of the contents. (By the way, the cover illustration is lovely.) <br /> <br />I read this novel because McAuliffe, after coming across some of my Amazon reviews and a brief biography of me, thought I might like it. Perhaps I have not liked it as much as he hoped, but I do not mean to discourage him. There is indeed much food for thought here, and the author is obviously a deep man with a good mind. I was flattered to have been chosen, and since I spent one month in Da Nang in 1968, the same place and year his main characters met, of course I was interested. <br /> <br />Actually, the main problem in the book is that the characters are seen too briefly in Vietnam, especially in '68, a very tough year there, and two of them are followed too extensively in the states in the decades after the war. The civilian lives of Isaiah and Patric could have been condensed quite a bit, and their experiences \\"In Country\\" expanded, both to the benefit of \\"Purple Sun.\\" <br /> <br />	2005-06-26
US	40325486	R36KLALNSZAIA8	0785263705	407388798	Blue Like Jazz: Nonreligious Thoughts on Christian Spirituality	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Flawed yet compelling saga of a faith journey...	Many of the prior reviewers hated this book, and many loved it. I am an inbetweener. It was not always fascinating or profound, but I wanted to finish it. This is a look at Don Miller's faith journey over the past few years. He is in his mid-30's, single, kind of liberal socially and politically but more conservative in his religious beliefs. He struggles to love people different from himself, and to love himself as well. He struggles to make a living without having a 9-5 office or classroom job. He struggles to find a Christian congregation which can look beyond political labels and conformity and do good in his community of Portland, Oregon. Miller hangs out at Reed College, neither student nor instructor, which he portrays as a fortress of secular humanism peopled by lovely folks. Because this is a personal memoir of what parts of organized Christianity work for him, and which parts fail, he will offend some readers, bore others, and enthrall the rest of us. I'm glad I read it, and I think Mr. Miller has a good mind and a nice talent for writing. I look forward to deeper and richer works in the future. <br />	2005-06-14
US	40325486	R1K0CV3UWCABQ0	0743223551	716197705	The Kills	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Disappointing, compared to others in the series...	I'd guess that this is the fourth Fairstein novel I've read, and it is the least compelling. (\\"The Bone Vault\\" was much better.) This time around, the plot is too full of coincidence and cliche and complications and CIA clones and coin collections. All those \\"C\\" words...hmmm...guess that's why I'd grade this one a \\"C\\". Fairstein knows the law and trial work and sex crimes from her pre-writing life, and in this book she tries to get away from what she knows best and show off her broader education. But the attempt is not really successful. Her heroine, Alex Cooper, is less likeable in this effort. I found her pretentious and whiny this time around, and in the earlier novels I liked her more.	2005-06-14
US	40325486	R1N59GV5N0LGVL	0399152407	412179057	Cold Service (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Tired series, fades at the end, and it's a shame...	Spenser, Susan and Hawk have been pals of mine for more than 20 years, but after so many books, there is nothing new to have them do. In this one, Hawk gets seriously wounded, and once he recovers, he takes awhile to get his revenge. I got this off the library shelf and read it in only a couple of hours, which I don't mind, but the promising start gives way to a disappointing finish. I think Mr. Parker is doing better with Sunny Randall and Jesse Stone, and might just leave Spenser to a safe retirement now. Parker has also published several \\"stand alone\\" books in the last few years, most of them worthwhile. I have loved him, and his style, and his characters, but I also loved Dick Francis for decades. Francis retired several years ago, and it was time. If you have read at least seven or eight Spenser novels, you know enough about the recurring characters to practically write this entry yourself.	2005-06-08
US	40325486	R2NBRIMQYJWENW	0060742887	382907390	Devil's Corner	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another winning effort by  Scottoline, the Philly Filly...	As is true for several other early reviewers of this new suspense novel, I got my copy free from the publisher, no strings attached. Unlike some of the other critics, I have read several other books by Scottoline, and enjoyed each of them. She specializes in spunky single female lawyers in Philadelphia, who have job troubles, relationship deficits, weird family issues, and self-esteem gaps. In other words, she writes about real people, caught up in situations which become more dangerous than expected. Her new heroine, Vicki Allegretti, is an assistant U.S. attorney, pretty much a rookie, who gets in way over her head in the opening chapter. How she survives entanglement with killer drug dealers on the meanest of streets is the core of the tale. I was hooked early and stayed interested all the way through. If you like crime thrillers with likeable protagonists, this one's sure to suit you. <br />	2005-06-02
US	40325486	RRG4NAVT1MPAB	0765311658	196534542	Denial: A Lew Fonesca Mystery (Lew Fonesca Novels)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quite a satisfying effort from the prolific Kaminsky...	This new release is the fourth novel in the \\"Lew Fonesca\\" series, and it holds up to the quality of its predecessors. I suggest that mystery fans read the four in order, starting with Vengeance, then Retribution, and third, Midnight Pass. Fonesca is a Florida-based process server and finder of missing people. He is struggling to cope with the tragic loss of his wife, and subsequent loss of interest in life itself. Slowly, through the four novels, which cover about two years of his life, Lew acquires a new family of friends and a host of interesting acquaintences. In \\"Denial\\" he tracks the unknown driver who ran down a 14-year-old boy, and solves a puzzling murder in an assisted living facility. He makes progress in his not-yet-intimate relationship with a social worker, and starts a \\"Big Brother\\" relationship with a needy teenage boy. Finally, there is a nice surprise at the end, when Lew makes a decision which might make the next book in the series the best yet. Highly recommended for fans of Robert B. Parker and Lawrence Block, or mysteries in general.	2005-05-30
US	40325486	R2FVULB0D8XE0U	0765304627	487940759	Midnight Pass: A Lew Fonesca Mystery	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When one book leads you to read three other books...	surely it is worth five stars, is it not? This was the third novel in a series featuring Lew Fonesca, a grieving widower who relocates from Chicago to Florida and nearly gives up on life. It was the first of the series that I read, but now I've added book one, Vengeance, and book two, Retribution, and am about to start on the newest, Denial. Fonesca fascinates me. Through the four books, which probably cover less than two years in his life, he slowly builds a new network of family and friends and even a love interest. He solves mysteries, taking jobs as a finder of missing persons and as a process server. He gets into danger. He does not commit acts of violence. He lives simply, but thinks deeply. He believes he does not \\"feel\\" deeply anymore, due to the tragic loss of his wife, but his actions prove that he does. Kaminsky writes a ton of books, with five different series heroes, and all of them are worth checking out.	2005-05-28
US	40325486	R3N646OQ86VABC	0312869274	710542546	Vengeance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	First entry in a series, and a fine debut it is...	As I write this, there are now four novels featuring Lew Fonseca, professional process server and people finder. Lew left Chicago after his wife died and ended up down in Sarasota, on the seedy side of town, depressed and aimless. The series reveals, via Lew's acquisition of friends, clients, enemies and casual acqaintences, his return to a meaningful life. He finds a way to make his expenses, a woman to date, an affordable shrink, and a means of combatting his depression and grief. He takes cases that turn into murder mysteries and he triumphs over evil. I like this fella quite a bit. I have now read the first three novels in the series and will start the fourth, \\"Denial\\", in a day or two. If you like author Kaminsky's other series, or you enjoy Robert B. Parker or Lawrence Block, you should get a kick out of Lew Fonesca and his world.	2005-05-28
US	40325486	RHWLH12WKN9H5	0380725347	399784443	Even the Wicked (Matthew Scudder)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Least violent, most cheerful of the Scudder series...	Larry Block has published so many novels over the past 35 years or so that you cannot expect all of them to be masterpieces. He does have a few in that category. While this effort is not one of those, it is enjoyable enough. His aging, alcoholic-in-recovery private snoop Matt Scudder is 55, married and stable in this outing. A mysterious killer knocks off a few nasty guys in NYC, and Scudder ends up solving the case. Unfortunately the reader gets to the right conclusion at the same time as the private eye, which robs the saga of its punch. However, the show is not over, because a copycat takes the stage and creates a second case for our hero to resolve, at the same time that he is puzzling out still another, unrelated killing. While Scudder is never in any personal danger in this book, a situation most earlier reviewers lament, I still liked it. He's a complicated but nice guy, with a nice wife and a semi-adopted son who adds sizzle to his life. If you like your mysteries to avoid gristly murder details and personal danger for the lead character, this book will please you. Be warned: other entries in the Scudder series are much more graphic and have more tension, so if that's what you prefer, start with \\"A Walk Among the Tombstones\\" or one of the other, earlier novels.	2005-05-25
US	40325486	RQ5EOX4CU6L8G	0812540360	871471826	Retribution: A Lew Fonesca Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lew Fonesca is a different kind of hero...	This was the second in a series featuring Fonesca, a guy who has thrown away his old, successful life in Chicago as an investigator for a district attorney. His wife dies in a car crash, and the childless Lew ends up in Sarasota, living simply in skid-row conditions. He wants to grieve, to be left alone, but he is unable to choose suicide, so \\"life\\" keeps knocking on his door. He makes a meager living serving papers for a law firm and although he never was a cop or a private detective, keeps getting sucked into crime-solving situations. Actually, he is ever so slowly creating a new family of friends, a mixture of down-and-out types, lawyers, a psychologist, a social worker, small business owners, and a local cop. There are about four Fonesca novels now, and I've read two of them, with plans to get the others soon. I like Lew and his crew and his situation. Kaminsky is prolific producer of short mysteries in four different series, and I've sampled each of his continuing characters. All of them are worth a look if you like murder mysteries.	2005-05-21
US	40325486	R2LHVWSMI02XNM	0060198311	609892895	All the Flowers Are Dying (Matthew Scudder Mysteries)	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Another enjoyable outing from Mr. Block...	I've read most of Larry Block's novels over the past three decades. The only one I ever hated was the recent \\"Small Town\\" disaster. This one brings back aging and semi-retired detective Matthew Scudder and pairs him with a super-evil sadistic but brilliant murderer. I get my Blocks at the library, so I don't have to balance my opinion against the purchase price. For a free read, it was worth the time invested. Some of the earlier reviewers are right, however...Block in recent years has taken a walk on the darker side, in terms of graphic but ugly sex in \\"Small Town\\" and graphic, ugly deaths in this book. Newcomers to this generally excellent author might want to start with his \\"Burglar\\" series instead, or the great short-story collection \\"Enough Rope.\\"	2005-05-19
US	40325486	R3RXUE5PWE75MM	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Nice diversion, a "feel good" tale of second-chance love...	This is no masterpiece you will need to own or to read a second time, but it is worth reading once if you are a romantic at heart, or are curious about what a cross-country train trip is like these days. Tom and Eleanor are the main characters, lovers who broke up several years before the book opens, and who are reunited (to the astonishment of each) on an Amtrak adventure. There are fascinating details about how the passenger train crews do their jobs, and how train travel, usually safe, can have its perils. Many of the secondary characters are delightful. The novel ends with a couple of surprises I did not see coming, which is always nice.	2005-05-19
US	40325486	R1CUECP4N0OSNN	1401300871	334407495	Whiskey Sour (Jack Daniels Mysteries)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not too bad for a debut character...	Female detective \\"Jack\\" Daniels has growth potential, even though she is 46, divorced, and a veteran of 20 years in law enforcement. The Chicago setting offers plenty of atmosphere for future installments in the series. This first outing, however, offers murders too gruesome, other cops and private detectives too stereotyped, and an ending that is not very believable. I found it worth reading despite the flaws, and I probably will check out the next effort as well. I hope to see more imagination put into the secondary characters: surely not all private eyes are seedy, and not all FBI agents are automatons, and not all partners are binge eaters.	2005-05-17
US	40325486	RZWI815Z4EKL9	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Fans might want to pick this up at the library...	rather than purchase it. It is not the best of the Scarpetta novels by far, but I found it worth reading (for free.) Most of the prior reviewers seemed to hate this effort, and many of their criticisms are valid. But if you have read all the others in the series, you won't want to skip this one. She's back in Richmond, temporarily, and has to cope with bad memories and bad people and a vicious killer who has a personal grudge against Lucy. Kay and Lucy are still having relationship troubles, with each other and with their romantic partners. I think the series is about out of steam, frankly. Maybe one more effort, letting Kay and Benton Wesley get together permanently at last, and settling Lucy down, and bringing a good woman into Marino's life, would be a nice way to bid goodbye to the world's best medical examiner.	2005-05-14
US	40325486	R2UEMXS9XMQM8C	0743250516	318494215	Saving Cascadia: A Novel	Books	2	5	9	N	N	One of the rare novels I gave up on...	The book is 352 pages. Before I reached page 100, I gave up on this one. It seemed padded, awkward, unrealistic in dialogue and characters. I had grabbed it off the library shelf after reading a rave review in a newspaper. I should have checked Amazon first, because the negative (or at least unenthusiastic) critiques here seem to be the truth. I have not read any of the prior books by Nance, but those seemed to be liked better by the reviewers. I'm disappointed, but glad I did not buy the book. Better luck next time, Mr. Nance.	2005-05-07
US	40325486	R1YANMK1VSCI4D	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Heck, I found it well-worth reading...	A lot of prior reviewers seem disappointed in this book, but I found it interesting. Maybe it is because I spent 15 years as a newspaper editor and the past 21 years as a domestic violence counselor. Perhaps I have more experience with \\"snap judgments\\" and with \\"social science research\\" than many readers. Author Gladwell contrasts the two ways of making decisions, and attempts to explain why the quick, instinctive opinion often works out better. The book has a little too much repetition, and jumps from one situation to another without always connecting the former with the latter effectively----but those are small flaws. Consider this short work an introduction to the topic of instinctive responses, not the final word, and you should be content. His section on traumatic, temporary autism as an explanation for things such as police officers shooting suspects who turn out not to have been threats will be controversial, but makes sense to me. So does his contention that \\"contempt\\" between spouses is the best predictor of divorce. I'm glad I read it. If you are cautious due to the reviews which are not as positive as mine, just go fetch your copy at the library, as I did. Then, if it does not hold your interest, you are only out a little time, but no dough.	2005-05-03
US	40325486	RIG1ENB9DHS7D	0141302038	124576044	Dancing on the Edge	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Second half is riveting, after a slow and weird start...	I am a 60-year old man with a 13-year-old daughter. She recommended this \\"young adult\\" novel to me. I just finished it, and I agree with the prior reviewer who said it is best for older teens and adults. The heroine, Miracle McCloy, tells us about her life, mostly from age ten to 14. Her mother is dead, her father is a burned-out literary prodigy, her grandma is a lying, fake psychic who is totally around the bend with her arrogant occult snobbery. Miracle is a lonely misfit who sees herself as a total loser. In her misery, she suffers accidental (?) burns and ends up in an adolescent treatment center for psychological problems. With the help of a caring psychiatrist,  Miracle  faces the unpleasant truths about her history and her relatives, and also manages to bring out the best in her disorganized Aunt. The psychic stuff is really heavy in the first half of the book, but as a former medium and spiritualist myself (briefly and many years ago) I can testify that I met a few people who were as nuts as Miracle's grandma Gigi. It may be unpleasant for many readers who are more traditional in their approach to religious questions, but it is not presented unrealistically. In the second half, when Miracle is \\"saved\\" it is not by a return to mainstream churches,  but rather by the techniques of psychiatry and therapy. That in itself may also displease some readers, but again, it is presented realistically (I've been a domestic violence social worker for 20 years, so I have a bit of knowledge of that side of life as well.) I hope my daughter learned from reading this novel, which she liked, that her own family is not so terrible after all. The main character, poor Miracle, like many troubled kids, blames herself for all the bad in her life. That idea encompasses two errors which often have tragic results: on the one hand, it falsely attributes way too much power to children, and on the other, because everything is her fault, it leaves Miracle feeling \\"power-less, rather than power-ful.\\" She becomes afraid to try to change things, because all the changes so far in her life were bad. I recommend it for kids 13 and older, especially those who feel like isolated outcasts with few talents, but the teen should also have a trusted adult read the book so they can discuss it later. My daughter closed the covers with a strong wish that the author would write a sequel, demonstrating how Miracle fares through her high school years. I had the same wish by the time I finished it.	2005-03-26
US	40325486	R20CSZKMI7LYQX	0525204970	376817458	Sleeping Dogs Lie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Slow starting, but a frenzied finish of food for thought....	A friend supplied this 1980's novel to me recently, perhaps because of my career as a domestic violence counselor. I found it tedious for the first 70 pages, but the next 240 grabbed me and would not let go. It is a murder mystery, a psychological puzzle, a study of arrogance, smugness, guilt, gossip, shame, blame and misunderstandings. A college student enters therapy because he cannot bring himself to use a stone staircase at his dormitory. That \\"presenting problem\\" leads the psychiatrist, Hugh Welchman, the ostensible hero of the book, to try to unravel the truth behind the \\"accidental\\" death of the boy's mother 14 years earlier. There are half-a-dozen people who might have pushed the woman down the home staircase. By the time the book ends, nearly each one has accused someone else and also confessed to the deed him or her self. In fact, after a couple of tragic events, as the book comes to a sad close, we, the readers, are not really sure we know the full truth. Has anyone survived the detective work in better shape than he or she was at the start? Is the final explanation for who killed whom, and who tried to kill whom, and why the latter plan was foiled, really the solution, brilliant as it seems? If you like novels with an excess of British atmosphere, this is for you...the fogs and drizzles of Dr. Welchman's college town are presented with great force, almost characters themselves. Have patience with this one. I'm glad I did. The story stays with you long after you are done, but don't expect a cheerful ending.	2005-03-24
US	40325486	R36XQN2IZNFSC1	0345453433	317138666	Kiss Me While I Sleep (Howard, Linda)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Sexy, suspenseful, not predictable and fun to read...	There are 75 prior reviews posted on this book. Most are from fans of the author who seem disappointed in this effort. This is my first Linda Howard novel, however, and I liked it. I had sympathy for the hero and heroine, found the \\"avian flu virus threat\\" which is at the heart of the book to be believable, and discovered a couple of plot twists which surprised me. At 60 years old, I've read a great many thrillers in my life, and I'm glad I took a chance on this one. Of course, I got my copy from the library. Had I spent $20 on it, perhaps I would have been less impressed. But if you like \\"CIA/organized crime/paid assassin/who can you trust?\\" fantasies, this one should please you.	2005-03-10
US	40325486	R57DUIZ6JQKHH	6307856157	693773417	Streets of Sin	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful 48 minutes from West Texas Joe...	Hard to believe I am the first reviewer for this late 2003 release. It has a dozen very likeable songs, mostly mid-tempo...not hard rockers, not twangy country, not depressing or whiny \\"folk-singer/songwriter\\" material that is so common lately from other artists. Joe did write ten of these tracks, and Butch Hancock, one of his best friends, penned the other two. If you like Joe already, you need this CD. If you are new to Joe, this is a great choice. In its own way, it is as good as \\"Letter to Laredo\\" or his early release \\"Honky Tonk Masquerade.\\" I have not been lucky enough to see Joe live, although I live near Lubbock and he appears there regularly. I've been told that his concerts are superior to his studio albums, and I can believe it. But this studio product is worth repeated listening and can't fail to please the listener who enjoys that unique niche between rock, folk, blues, country and poetry that so many Texas artists seem to find.	2005-03-05
US	40325486	RZF31WXYDTLF0	0758206186	969395440	Sullivan's Law (Rosenberg, Nancy Taylor)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Flawed mystery, but I still enjoyed it...	This is at least the third novel I've read by this author, and perhaps because I get them from the library instead of shelling out dollars, I've enjoyed each one. This one requires a huge suspension of disbelief because of convenient coincidences and other plot twists. The four reviews posted prior to mine are each reasonable, although they differ in opinions as to the book's overall success or which flaws are worst. If you like crime and suspense novels with spunky females  who are full-fledged adults, carrying the baggage of failed relationships, overwork, over-worry, sexual frustrations, parenting problems, etc., you will like Carolyn Sullivan, author Rosenberg's probation officer heroine. Her villains are thoroughly nasty, with no redeeming qualities. One character, Daniel, a schizophrenic who was unjustly imprisoned for 23 years, turns out to be a scientific genius. That's a bit hard to believe, yet he is a likeable guy. Had I spent $20 on the book, I might have given it three stars instead of four. But for free, it was worth the few hours it took to spend a couple of weeks in Ms. Sullivan's world, our famous and quite imperfect corrections system. This is Rosenberg's ninth novel, and while I liked the other two I've read a bit better than this one, she knows her territory: cops, judges, probation officers, jails, lawyers...all the stuff that is done so well on the multitude of \\"Law and Order\\" episodes on television. Her writing is not as crisp as those formula TV scripts, but one would not expect it to be.\\"Sullivan's Law\\" is what it is: a three-to-four star crime novel, depending on one's particular view of the genre. She isn't as good as Patricia Cornwell or Lawrence Block, but she is better than many others who have works on the shelves.	2005-02-26
US	40325486	R8EPIDA8KC661	0765303353	937644449	Irish Cream: A Nuala Anne McGrail Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Despite predictable formula, the characters win you over...	This is indeed the eighth novel in a series, detailing the love affair and marriage of Dermot and Nuala. He is a good-hearted lug who \\"accidentally\\" made a couple of million in a Chicago Board of Trade deal, allowing him to quit and devote his time to writing novels and poems. In the first book, he meets Nuala in Dublin. She is a college student, multi-talented but insecure, with walls around her heart. In each book, their love story tangles with a modern crime which needs solving, and also with 18th, 19th, or early 20th century murder mysteries involving folks in Ireland or Chicago. I really like these people, although they require a huge suspension of disbelief on the part of the reader. If you can, start with the first one and read them in order. You can knock off each book in 3 or 4 hours. If that is impossible, grab this one but make plans to get the first seven somehow so you know the back stories of all the continuing characters. They are all a bit sad, a bit funny, and a bit sexy, and the religion/philosophy part of the contents always makes sense, at least to me.	2005-02-21
US	40325486	R2QYLSBSLI5IRL	0944435408	514823957	Great Forgers and Famous Fakes: The Manuscript Forgers of America and How They Duped the Experts	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Fascinating, but discouraging at the same time...	I've always been interested in old documents and autographs, real or faked, so I probably would have gotten around to reading Charles Hamilton's book anyway. I'm surprised that I missed it back in 1980 when it first was published. However, I made a point of getting a copy last week because this work was mentioned in another book about literary forgery I was reading. That one, \\"The Poet and the Murderer\\" by Simon Worrall, is also worth reading. In his chapter on the history of forgery, Worrall mentions Hamilton's book and one of the many forgers described in it, Thomas McNamara, a New England poet and college teacher who was nabbed in 1977 for selling fake Robert Frost manuscripts. Well, I got a bad feeling in my stomach when I read that brief reference. Back in 1962-63, my college freshman English teacher was Thomas Edward Francis McNamara, who was brilliant in the classroom, and became my friend outside of it until he was let go by Rider College (now University) in New Jersey. MY Tom McNamara was a poet with a special interest in Robert Frost. He went back to New England in 1964 and I lost track of him, but I always wondered what became of him. I had to get the Hamilton book to find out if the felonious McNamara was my long-lost friend. Sadly, he is, or was, and is covered in Chapter 14 of Hamilton's book. His own poetry was published under his first three names, and I have a vanity press volume from 1961 he inscribed to me. According to Hamilton, my friend Tom was a fraud, who claimed a phony master's degree from Wayne State University to get college jobs, and who was indeed popular with students but seldom kept a job for long. He ended up entering a guilty plea in federal court in 1978 and was sentenced to a year in the federal pen, (which sounds like a pun when describing a forger.) How sad. I wonder what became of him after? I would like to know if he was an undiagnosed bi-polar or schizophrenic, or just plain evil? He made Frost and other American poets come alive for me. Why wasn't he content just to be a good instructor? Hamilton's book does not answer any of these questions, since the McNamara case was fresh when it was published. The rest of the book details forgers going back nearly two centuries. While Hamilton is not the most skilled writer, he obviously knows his autographs, and the book is full of tips on how to spot faked Lincoln, Washington, Ben Franklin and other letters. It is fascinating that forgery has such a long history and that there have been so many brilliant practitioners. The discouraging aspect is that it makes the hobby of collecting autographs and letters a risky one, indeed. Clearly, there are more fake items on the market than real ones, for the more famous historical figures. I have a modest collection myself, mostly obtained by my sister in the '50's and myself in the '60's and 70's, of actors, race car drivers, and baseball players. I can vouch for all but the ballplayers, which I purchased from strangers via the mail. If there was a person of Charles Hamilton's talents in my area, I'd pay him to take a look at the signatures for which I can't vouch personally. I hope my Ted Williams, for instance, is the real thing, but I'll bet there are fakes out there now. Since mine was purchased 40 years ago, I think it is likely authentic. Hamilton's book, however, will definitely make a skeptic out of the casual collector. For that reason alone, it is a book worth owning.	2005-01-19
US	40325486	R3E47WA36PG9KX	0873581482	931619935	Ten Thousand Goddam Cattle: A History of the American Cowboy in Song, Story and Verse	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Well, maybe it is four stars for musicologists...	Katie Lee knows a lot about her subject, the traditional cowboy song, but less about compelling writing or sensible organizing of a book-length manuscript. First published in 1976, this partial history of dozens of cowboy songs was reissued in 2001 by the University of New Mexico Press. Ms. Lee, who was a professional folksinger as early as the '40's and who knew Woody Guthrie, Cisco Houston, Burl Ives and others who were major contributors to the preservation and popularization of these kind of songs (more folk than \\"country\\" is one way I'd describe them, distinctively \\"western\\" in setting) isn't writing autobiography here. She instead wants to show how one might research the origins of an old beloved song, and even find the site of the events written about when the buildings and people have long departed. Along the way, in her quest to find a vanished townsite south of Santa Fe, she comments on the probable origins of dozens of western ballads, more of them the lesser-known ones. She quotes extensively, in heavy dialect and bad grammar, many aging cowboys she knew. Rather than being a charming look at a lost vocabulary, however, her quotes become a bit tedious. Better editing would have been a blessing, for Ms. Lee, while obviously knowing and loving her subject, is not a compelling writer. Casual readers will probably find more than they want to know about her, and her friends, and the songs. However, in terms of preserving one version of the probable origins of many cowboy ballads from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, this is a valuable book, despite its flaws of organization. Ms. Lee lives in Arizona, and most of the book involves that state, with Santa Fe's environs being a strong supporting player in the tale. She laments the loss of a way of life, a way of song-writing, a way of singing, and a way of looking at the world and one's place in it. If you feel the same about the vanished old west, this book's likely to interest you.	2005-01-17
US	40325486	R3ETZN76IS074T	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	This one is good fun, not great literature: lighten up!	In the three years I've had a home computer and have been reading and writing reviews of music and books, I have been amazed at the extremes I've encountered. Some fans think anything their favorite writer or singer puts out is great, and some people seem impossible to please and condemn products for minor imperfections. The rarest reviews are those submitted by thoughtful \\"moderates\\" who can point out the weaknesses but also find the redeeming qualities. Many of the reviews for \\"Metro Girl\\" are harsh and bitter. I've been a fan of Janet's for a decade now, and I have read about 15 of her novels. I have not loved them all, but I've liked most of them. Some are worth the hardcover price, and some are worth only the paperback price a year later, and some are only worth getting from the library. None of them were created to be unforgettable masterpieces, treasured even 200 years from now. Evanovich has her virtues, but she ain't Jane Austen. I agree that a few of her novels seem to be lazily done, and rushed to market. But for three or four hours of escapist reading, with laughs, some suspense, and a touch of sensuality, she is one of the best out there. \\"Metro Girl\\" is not as good as the best five of the ten Stephanie Plum novels, but it is better than Janet's earlier romance efforts, including the recent reissues. Of course, there are moments when one has to suspend disbelief, and accept contrived plot twists. And she is better at dialogue than description, and ought to move closer to Robert B. Parker's style than to O.Henry's. Gosh, people, she writes \\"light\\" thrillers with heavy comic undercurrents and hints of sexiness. These are novels to help one find relief from the tragedies of tsunamis or fatal mudslides in California. And on that level, she is welcome in my home and in my brain and my wife and I both thought \\"Metro Girl' was worth the hardcover price. I am pretty stingy with my dough, and will hit the library for most new books instead of the store, but Janet has made us laugh for a decade, and that's worth rewarding with a little loyalty. If you like most of the Plum series, you ought to like \\"Metro Girl.\\" If you hated the Plums, skip this effort, too. There are dozens of mystery writers putting out product continuously, and none of them please all of us, all the time. If you think doing comic caper books is easy, just try writing one yourself. Even Dave Barry bombed at that chore, so novel writing is a hell of a lot harder than it looks.	2005-01-13
US	40325486	RRW7VVA7TNBIL	0452284023	510565103	The Poet and the Murderer	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Emily's just a teaser for the Hofmann forgery/bombing tale	I liked this book more than most of the 42 earlier reviewers, although most of them did like it. I'm kind of the perfect reader for Simon Worrall, for two reasons: first, I've spent the past 25 years, part-time, researching all things Dickinson because in the 80's I wrote a play about the surviving kin who brought her poetry to the world amid adultery and feuds and greed and envy. Second, I've read three books about the astonishing and evil career of forger/murderer Mark Hofmann. So not everything in the book was new to me, although the information which was new was fascinating. It is not a perfectly written book, nor a perfectly organized one, nor a perfectly edited one. It would have benefitted from lots more photos of Hofmann's forged documents and of the victims of his bombs and deceit. Prior reviewers all make those points. However, it still is a worthwhile read, and the more so if you do not know as much as I do about Emily or about Hofmann's criminal activities. I won't rehash here the history of the Mormon Church, which is an essential ingredient in the tale and has nothing to do with Emily but everything to do with Mark Hofmann and why he became a killer. Some of the other reviewers chose to comment on that aspect in detail. Likewise, Mr. Worrall takes a few liberties with Emily which do not really belong in this story, such as relating a dream of taking a walk with her, and later trying to solve the mystery of the famous \\"master\\" letters---items which Hofmann did not forge, and which might relate to one of  three men Emily probably had crushes on during her life (some think a woman might have been the object of these sad love letters.) Worrall tells us his pick, but there is no better evidence for it than for any of the other candidates, although I would also pick the same guy. Those few pages are unneeded in this tale, and should have been saved for some future magazine piece about Emily's life. Those criticisms aside, this remains a good read. One of the\\"heroes\\" is former special collections curator Dan Lombardo, then of the Jones Library in Amherst, Mass., Emily's hometown. I never met him, but during the creation of my play, which took a couple years of research and a couple more to put in final form, he and I corresponded. He was quite helpful to me, a total nobody, and I have always been grateful. It was nice to find out that during a huge crisis in his professional career, he behaved with honor and courage. (Yes, even librarians can have situations which can mean life or death to their reputations, jobs or institutions!) Mark Hofmann tried to pass off one of his own poems as an Emily Dickinson manuscript in order to make money and to make fools of the experts, and he almost succeeded. That's part of what the book is about. The rest of it details his anti-Mormon forgeries and a few other of the hundreds of fake items he sold in the late '70's and early '80's, before he killed two people to try to stave off financial ruin and exposure for himself. It is, then, at heart, a true crime story. Hofmann has been the subject of a bunch of other books, but none in which the Dickinson forgery is the starting point. If you like Emily, or true crime tales, this one is worth reading. I also recommend \\"The Mormon Murders.\\" And for more on Emily, there is nothing as good as Richard Sewell's \\"The Life of Emily Dickinson\\" which will take months to read, but is wonderful.	2005-01-11
US	40325486	R2AQIOLYP3YKT0	0399152180	237402282	Melancholy Baby (A Sunny Randall Novel)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Better than some recent Parker efforts...	Parker is what he is. He writes in dialogue, his books can be read in three hours or less, one would not need to read any of them twice. Sunny Randall is a young female version of his famous P.I. \\"Spenser\\", and she works in the same city, has some of the same connections, and in this episode she encounters more directly a character from Spenser's world. I agree with the prior reviewer who notes that paying $25 for such a quickly read entertainment seems steep. I get mine from the library (and I take them back!) so money is not an issue. All that said, I enjoyed this installment quite a bit. I did guess who the villain was pretty early, yet still liked it. If you like Robert B. Parker's writing style, you'll like this. If you are new to his world, it isn't a bad choice, but I'd advise you to read the Sunny Randalls and the Jesse Stone novels in the order in which they have been published instead. As for the \\"Spenser\\" series, there are probably too many out there to find them in the order of publication, so just plunge in and go backwards. I've read at least half of Parker's 40-plus published books, and enjoyed all but one or two. He does tough guy or gal quite well, understated humor well, and beloved dogs even better. The mystical bond between seemingly mismatched couples is also a specialty of his. And quirky sidekicks, too, are handled well. \\"Melancholy Baby\\" may not be a noir masterpiece, but it is nothing to be ashamed of, either.	2004-11-16
US	40325486	R7K7CG9IONVPN	1400041473	326288893	The Heartbreaker (Howatch, Susan)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Gay sex may be a tad too much for some tastes...	but this book gains power and becomes quite moving by the time it ends. A hetero male, of course damaged in his childhood, makes his living servicing rich gay men. Circumstances bring him into the circle of St. Benet's Healing Centre, and eventually change many lives. Gavin, our hero, is not likeable at first, but he does grow on the reader as he struggles to understand his past trauma and present delusions. The female attorney heroine of \\"The High Flyer\\", the previous novel in this series, is also a major character, along with the ever-present clergymen Nick Darrow and Lewis Miles. If you liked \\"Wonder Worker\\" and \\"High Flyer\\" you'll like this one, too. If you are a stranger to the other novels by Howatch, I strongly suggest you read those two first. Her books feature continuing characters, who often grow and change in surprising ways from book to book. As good as the three novels in this current series are, I still don't think they are quite as great as the six books in her \\"Starbridge Series.\\" Look up \\"Glittering Images\\" and \\"Glamorous Powers\\" and the four others in that bunch. I recommend this project to any reader of intelligence and taste and an interest in religion, psychology, and human behavior. It might take a few months to find and consume these half-dozen full-length stories, but the effort was well-worth it to me. Howatch is pretty darn good at bringing quite flawed people to life, letting their weaknesses almost destroy them, allowing Grace and their strengths to save them, and then in a later book showing them to be heroic in saving others from sin and despair. If such a plot description attracts you, start on her Starbridge novels at once. Save \\"The Heartbreaker\\" for next year!	2004-09-10
US	40325486	R2UB56P17P4WIG	0399151885	102390096	Double Play	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Mainly for Parker fans, and for Robinson buffs...	I like Parker's style in general, and it is displayed in this newest non-recurring-character novel in abundance: brief on description, story told in terse dialogue, action includes sex and death and threatening situations, relieved by a bit of humor. I agree with an earlier reviewer that the hero, Burke, is a Spencer forerunner. That's not so bad, because Spencer has always been a cool guy. Once I got past page 99 (a third of the book) and reached the appearance of Jackie Robinson, this became nearly impossible for me to put down. But that first third doesn't always sing. I am almost 60, nearly as old as Parker, so the interludes in which he waxes nostalgic about his own childhood and Dodger fan experiences resonate with me in a way that might bore younger readers. I also didn't think the love interest to be worthy of Burke...she is a spoiled, wealthy, alcoholic slut with arrogant low self-esteem (which sounds like a contradiction but is actually quite common.) The main problem, however, is that the book is packaged and marketed as the fictional tale of Robinson's bodyguard in 1947, the first year of integrated major league baseball. Yet the reader has to wait nearly a hundred pages to get into THAT part. Far be it from me to tell the master how to make a book, but I can say that if it started with a long scene between Burke and Jackie, and used flashbacks instead of chronological story-telling, it might have that fifth star I withheld.	2004-07-24
US	40325486	R1V0EM27U2H1A9	0517164469	599805840	Case Closed	Books	5	16	32	N	Y	The only book you need to own about JFK's death...	Oddly enough, I think those of us who were 19 when JFK was murdered in Dallas, and who were open to the possibility of a wide conspiracy in the killing throughout the rest of the '60's, are now more ready to agree with Gerald Posner that Lee Oswald did it all by himself. Yes, he was a personality-disordered loser who had failed at everything in his life until that moment. Yes, he pulled off the murder of the century with almost no advance planning. Yes, he used a rifle that didn't cost much (although the $12.78 he paid for it was a full day's pay for him.) Yes, somehow fate brought the most powerful man in the world driving down the street right beneath Oswald's work window at less than 5 mph right at lunchtime, when all his co-workers were on other floors. Fate also brought an unseasonably warm and dry day, so the car would be open. Oswald had time for three shots and hit his target with two of them. Pretty darn hard to believe.<br />The trouble is, after 40 years of voluminous researching and studying, no other explanation is more credible than the one above. Posner's book explains why, and to me appears to be the closest thing to a final word we will get. No CIA or FBI or LBJ or Mafia or KGB or Castro or right-wing plotters were needed. No second gunmen in crowded Dealey Plaza were required. One jerk did indeed change the world, because he seized the opportunity, and the shot wasn't that difficult, and he was, in the end, willing to give up his life when his feeble getaway attempt went wrong and cost a police officer his life, too. <br />Those who were 19 when the Oliver Stone movie &quot;JFK&quot; came out in 1991, two years before Posner's book, will have a harder time accepting the single sociopath explanation for Kennedy's death. That movie, nearly brilliant as a piece of FICTIONAL film-making, proposed conspiracy theories which have long been discredited, and made a hero out of New Orleans district attorney Jim Garrison, who in truth, was a villain deservingof disbarment. <br />If another sociopath, Jack Ruby, had not impulsively and pretty much by chance killed Lee Oswald two days later, none of the conspiracy theories would have had any legs. Oswald would have been executed, most likely within a couple of years after conviction. If given life, he would be a prison nobody, much like RFK's assassin and MLK's assassin. But Ruby, emotionally unhinged by the death of his favorite president in his home city, did get close enough to Oswald to shoot him during a transfer from one jail to another. And so shocked were we all, that believing two such deaths could be just lone acts became all but impossible. <br />Posner has put in one volume the compelling argument that no matter how many rich, famous, influential or criminal people might have desired  someone to shoot JFK in 1963, none of them did it, planned it, or paid for it. Lee Oswald struck a blow for his version of socialism and for his own negative fame on Friday. Jack Ruby struck a blow for his own warped version of justice on Sunday. Case closed.	2004-04-21
US	40325486	R154YK3QIMXUWX	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Has its faults, but important nevertheless...	I read about 20 of the earlier reviews of &quot;Flyboys&quot; as I struggled through the book this past week. Some of the negative comments are deserved, such as referring to the late Gen. Curtis LeMay as &quot;Curtis&quot; in half or more of the references to him. This is bizarre and distracting. Whether a result of careless editing or author-torial stubborness, it does not work. Also, I agree that the term &quot;Flyboys&quot; as a collective description of pilots, gunners and radiomen is over-used. I also agree that the book perhaps tries to cover too much history and abandons its cover story for too many pages at a time. Some condensing and reorganization would have  enhanced its power. That said, many of the other negative comments seem to be unfair. Yes, Mr. Bradley dwells on America's mistreatment of Indians and Filipinos at length, including prisoners of war. Yes, he gives disgusting details of how our napalm drops on Japanese cities destroyed civilians indiscriminately. But he is not making up those facts. And to emphasize how easily combat and its stresses can make soldiers willing to do horrible deeds is not exactly the same thing as excusing the acts. I have read my share of WW II books, as I near 60 years of age, and &quot;Flyboys&quot; is the first one which sensibly explains how the Japanese fighter rationalized not only his willingness to die in already-lost battles, but his contempt for those  from other cultures who chose to be prisoners of war instead. To explain the Japanese viewpoint, again, is not to excuse the acts. Nor is it unpatriotic.<br />&quot;Flyboys&quot; describes disgusting acts of brutality and cannibalism, and is ultimately a very sad tale. It is not a work that should be tackled by readers who are emotionally fragile. As most people reading this review will already know, Mr. Bradley's dad was one of the Iwo Jima flag-raisers, wounded physically by Japanese soldiers in that fight, and wounded in some ways psychologically by the whole of his wartime service. The fact that his son went off to study in Japan, and developed much respect for the residents there, must have been painful and puzzling for the father. But I don't think any intelligent reader of Bradley's earlier book, &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; or of &quot;Flyboys&quot; can question the younger Bradley's respect for our troops or our country. One of our strengths as a representative democracy is that we can love our nation for having humane ideals even if we are imperfect in living up to them every minute. And we can learn from injustices committed in our names by our government or military agents, and change our ways.<br />I stuck with &quot;Flyboys&quot; right to the end, flaws and all, and I'm glad I did. It gets more powerful as it goes on, and it does finish the story of the eight Chichi Jima American POW's as much as it could be completed, so long after their 1945 deaths. We live in a time when we may be facing 30 years or more of sporadic war with terrorists and the countries which fund and hide them. To read a book which makes war and its (initially) unintended horrors seem like a step to be accepted only with the greatest caution is not a bad thing right now. While Mr. Bradley is not the smoothest historian/writer on the block, he shows promise. In some ways this book is better than &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; despite its problems of style, language and organization. For sure, it is more important than the previous book, because the Iwo Jima battle story had already been well-covered in earlier works. Former President George Bush came close to being a prisoner on Chichi Jima, and plays a small part in this book. If he cooperated, and if he thinks Jim Bradley has done a service to the country with his research into the horrors of war in the Pacific from both sides, I won't argue with him. He was there, I was not. I'm glad I read &quot;Flyboys&quot; but unlike &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; which I've read three times since it was first published, I won't be reading it twice. Its medicine is too strong for a second dose.	2004-01-05
US	40325486	R2V4N702Z45PZ4	1879941147	248537869	Night Rider (Southern Classics Series)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Flawed first novel, but hints of the better work to come...	Penn Warren ended up with a fine reputation, largely based on &quot;All the King's Men&quot; and  poetry and  literary criticism and his standing as a &quot;modern&quot; Southerner in the mid-20th century who could explain some of the past sins and virtues of his ancestors and neighbors. This first novel displays promise, but is not a compelling read page-by-page. It improves with each chapter after getting off to a slow start. For my taste, there is excessive Kentucky backwoods dialogue, some uninteresting digressions, and some failure to develop the major characters in ways that make one care deeply about their fates. Percy, the lawyer and main figure, idealistically but with some vanity, jumps into a tobacco growers union which plans to fight the big corporate buyers in order to get a fairer price for the crop. However, little-by-little, the association members begin to become coercive, and then to terrorize, those who won't join. A moral cause has become an immoral enterprise by the end of the book. Lives are taken or ruined, and the acts &quot;justified&quot; because the cause has to be saved due to the energies already invested in it. Meanwhile, Percy commits an act against justice to get a client free of a murder charge, an act against his innocent wife which destroys his marriage, and an act of murder to preserve his cause. He does not seem to know just how he sunk that low, or how to recover. He has an affair after his wife leaves him that seems loveless and even lust-less, yet it leads to tragedy for the father of the girl with whom he sleeps. In some ways the book is a replaying of the lost Confederate cause of the Civil War. I've stated some of its weaknesses, but I must say that I did want to stick it through. I came to care about Percy and wanted to find out how it ended, even though Percy is not fully likeable. There is one earlier review posted on this site, and that writer dissects the novel more skillfully than I can. I agree with his assessment. Worth reading if you have a special interest in Penn Warren, or in Kentucky, or tobacco history, or in how organizations with high-minded goals can be corrupted by forceful leaders or strained circumstances.	2003-12-21
US	40325486	R3OXFO5JG6ER1E	0670032468	896851657	Love Me	Books	3	8	11	N	N	No, this one just falls short of satisfying...	There are a few big laughs, the best coming at the expense of us liberals, in fact, but overall, &quot;Love Me&quot; is NOT a funny novel. It is instead quite sad. The hero is not likeable, the in-jokes about New Yorker magazine history (which I understood, yet didn't like) are too frequent and too strained, there is too much adultery and drunkeness and self-pity. I am a fan of GK, but I don't quite understand what audience this one was aimed at, or what point it was supposed to have. Hero Larry Wyler gets lucky with a first novel, and leaves a pretty good wife behind in St. Paul while he tries to sustain the big time in Manhattan. He fails as a New Yorker writer, fails with novel number two, and fails with the ladies he cheats with. The book offers an uncomfortable mixture of realism and fantasy (The New Yorker run by Mafia, famous authors hanging out all day at the offices, a killing at the end which comes off as stupid rather than scary or comic or tragic.) I began this with high hopes, but it took me three weeks to finish, because as each chapter ended, I began to care less about how the lead character resolved his situation. Exactly the opposite reaction to what GK intended, I'm sure. I stuck it out, but frankly, like some movie previews, all the best stuff was packed in the first seven minutes, so-to-speak. I think a novel based on the best adventures of comic detective Guy Noir from &quot;Prairie Home Companion&quot; would have rewarded GK's time and labor in much greater measure. I LIKE Guy Noir, but I ended up with no respect for Larry Wyler of &quot;Love Me.&quot; A tragic twist at the end was a surprise, but it didn't help. Better luck next time, GK.	2003-09-13
US	40325486	R3Q5LE25DPP22C	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Possibly the best of the bunch...	I know I am biased because I've been a Janet/Stephanie fan since book two, and I spent the first 27 years of my life in Trenton. Janet got the people right, the place right, and by now her characters are real to me. The first two books of the series, and the past two before this one, had some weak spots, but not fatal ones. This effort is really, really funny, especially Lula's efforts to master the Atkins diet. If you are already a fan, this one is worth buying in hardcover rather than waiting for your turn on the library list. If you are a beginner, I think you ought to get the whole series in paperback and then buy this one. You can read a Plum novel in one night if you have a few hours to spare, and easily in a week even if you are a \\"busy person.\\" They are comic, suspenseful, sexy and just plain nuts by turns. Steph has pluck, attitude, street smarts and a good heart, but seldom has good luck. Two cool men lust for her, a dog adores her, and somehow she always survives but never thrives. One novel follows the previous one with very little time passed inbetween. Through nine books, probably only a year or so has gone by in the lives of the characters. Yet there is growth and change visible among many of her friends and family. This is not deathless \\"literature\\"---these short books are just great fun. Worth the money, worth the time.	2003-08-08
US	40325486	R3GQK16H3N2F7P	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Possibly the best of the bunch...	I know I am biased because I've been a Janet/Stephanie fan since book two, and I spent the first 27 years of my life in Trenton. Janet got the people right, the place right, and by now her characters are real to me. The first two books of the series, and the past two before this one, had some weak spots, but not fatal ones. This effort is really, really funny, especially Lula's efforts to master the Atkins diet. If you are already a fan, this one is worth buying in hardcover rather than waiting for your turn on the library list. If you are a beginner, I think you ought to get the whole series in paperback and then buy this one. You can read a Plum novel in one night if you have a few hours to spare, and easily in a week even if you are a \\"busy person.\\" They are comic, suspenseful, sexy and just plain nuts by turns. Steph has pluck, attitude, street smarts and a good heart, but seldom has good luck. Two cool men lust for her, a dog adores her, and somehow she always survives but never thrives. One novel follows the previous one with very little time passed inbetween. Through nine books, probably only a year or so has gone by in the lives of the characters. Yet there is growth and change visible among many of her friends and family. This is not deathless \\"literature\\"---these short books are just great fun. Worth the money, worth the time.	2003-08-08
US	40325486	RSWKAMMICK2ST	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hey, I liked this one...	I think &quot;Back Story&quot; is a cut above its predecessor, and definitely worth reading if you are already a fan. If you are new to Parker, go find the older Spenser titles first, so you can grow along with the characters. This one is a quick read, of course, with the 95 percent dialogue style Parker is famous for. <BR>The twist here is that another of his series characters, police chief Jesse Stone,  makes a cameo appearance. Now there are 30 books in the Spenser series, and I do expect an end soon, perhaps by retirement. Still, Hawk and Susan and the dogs and Vinnie are annual companions for me of long-standing and much affection, and I felt this entry was a worthy one.	2003-07-22
US	40325486	R2GG3G3MZ7ZNLY	0743204735	660154931	Bush at War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Makes one appreciate how hard it is to run the country...	I didn't vote for this administration, and I'm not sure I'd vote for them if there is a next chance, but this account of how the Bush team handled the first 100 days after the 9/11 attacks is fascinating. Whether one agrees with the way the war in Afghanistan was handled or not, this explanation for what happened is essential to understanding why the Iraq war has happened and what might come next. Woodward reports, but does not opine, and that is the right tone to take. As for this moderate Democrat, the book does support my own gut feeling that the Administration members are neither dumb nor reckless and are not operating out of impulse or base motives. They faced a grim task in figuring out how best to prevent another 9/11 disaster. The jury is still out on whether their solutions will do the trick or not. I'm glad I read it, and I did develop increased respect for this group. Even if Al Gore had won, the U.S. might<BR>have had to handle the terrorism/Iraq problems in pretty much the same way.I think every adult citizen ought to read this before either condemning the Administration or blindly supporting every proposal that comes from it.	2003-03-21
US	40325486	R26Y10GR0JB4EJ	0892966300	172838177	A Fatal Glass of Beer	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Affectionate tribute to the great Fields...	This is only the second &quot;Toby Peters&quot; novel I've read. I started last month with the one that actually follows this effort...the Cary Grant thriller &quot;To Catch a Spy.&quot; That's good but this is better. W.C. Fields comes off as irascible as those who know him from his great film comedies would expect, but he holds his liquor well and exhibits bravery and a good heart to boot. Toby and his buddies Gunther and Jeremy and his girlfriend Anita are present, along with nutty and incompetent dentist Shelly and the lovely secretary Violet. Toby and W.C. and Gunther go on a cross-country journey to save Fields' famous small-town savings accounts from a thief. Comedy and tragedy and danger are well-balanced here, against a backdrop of 1943 WWII headlines and name-dropping from Hollywood's Golden Era. I recommend this highly to those who like quick-reading mixtures of fun and suspense. I'll be cleansing my small town's library shelves of its stock of the &quot;Toby&quot; series, then looking to buy the missing ones. Kaminsky has a winner in this character and his adventures. I have also read two of his &quot;Abe Leiberman&quot; police procedurals, but the Peters' books are more impressive.	2003-03-09
US	40325486	R5YIXXW3J6RW9	0345427564	22929845	The Glorious Cause: A Novel of the American Revolution	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fine one-volume overview of  Revolution's people and places	I doubt if anyone could describe the 1776-83 War for Independence in one volume and do it justice, whether the work be fiction or non-fiction. Too many years, too many fascinating personalities, too much need to bounce from the colonies to England to France and back again. Jeff Shaara's book is a worthy try, however, and anyone whose knowledge of the founding fights of our county is sketchy would be rewarded for reading this novel. I grew up halfway between the battlefields of Trenton and Princeton, and halfway between New York and Philadelphia. I have visited the battlefield at Monmouth and the Continental camp at Morristown and the home at Kingston, NJ where the original &quot;George Dubya&quot; bid farewell to his troops. I have stood at the edge of the Delaware River which saw the famous Crossing. I have seen the grave of the U.S. spy John Honeyman, and the site of his home. These are places touched upon in this book. Now I have not lived in that countryside for 32 years, but this book brought all those spots back to life for me. Yes, it has gaps, and one could debate Jeff's choices as to which characters to spend time with and which to mention only in passing. On the whole, however, he did a great job and many readers will be motivated to read other works, and to study other parts of the Revolution in more depth. I enjoyed it and recommend it to all. If you think you can create a better version of the battle  to establish America, go right (or write) ahead!	2003-03-03
US	40325486	R1TWC3ULDA85EX	0786708964	723656217	Beasts	Books	2	1	4	N	N	What was the famous author thinking?	If you want to read a short novel about sexual obsession with a tragic ending, during which the reader actually does come to care about the characters and understand them, even if \\"liking\\" them is difficult, read \\"Damage\\" by Josephine Hart (or at least see the movie version, although the book is more powerful.) Don't spend hard-earned cash on \\"Beasts\\" by Professor Oates. Her characters are cartoonish and shallow and have nothing to say or do that is interesting. Her heroine is mousy and unlikeable, and her villains are bores, not credible as a married couple that a naive college girl (or many such) would become fascinated by. This is an \\"idea\\" for a novel instead of a realized one. If the writer was a 30-year-old unknown making her debut, perhaps one could say nice things about the effort. But Ms. Oates is by gosh famous and respected, and marketing this tiny, tedious tome should embarrass her. She has released a story which features moral danger and even murder, yet has no suspense or thrills; one which revolves around bisexual, multi-partnered sexual awakening and degradation, yet has no actual sexual scenes written; one which declares that her heroine is a person we should care for and worry about, but fails to compel us to do so. It's the kind of effort that would discourage a beginner from picking up Ms. Oate's other works.	2003-01-09
US	40325486	R3C6FGWVXXHFJJ	0786708964	723656217	Beasts	Books	2	1	4	N	N	What was the famous author thinking?	If you want to read a short novel about sexual obsession with a tragic ending, during which the reader actually does come to care about the characters and understand them, even if \\"liking\\" them is difficult, read \\"Damage\\" by Josephine Hart (or at least see the movie version, although the book is more powerful.) Don't spend hard-earned cash on \\"Beasts\\" by Professor Oates. Her characters are cartoonish and shallow and have nothing to say or do that is interesting. Her heroine is mousy and unlikeable, and her villains are bores, not credible as a married couple that a naive college girl (or many such) would become fascinated by. This is an \\"idea\\" for a novel instead of a realized one. If the writer was a 30-year-old unknown making her debut, perhaps one could say nice things about the effort. But Ms. Oates is by gosh famous and respected, and marketing this tiny, tedious tale should embarrass her. She has released a story which features moral danger and even murder, yet has no suspense or thrills; one which revolves around bisexual, multi-partnered sexual awakening and degradation, yet has no actual sexual scenes written; one which declares that her heroine is a person we should care for and worry about, but fails to compel us to do so. It's the kind of effort that would discourage a beginner from picking up Ms. Oate's other works.	2003-01-09
US	40325486	RSSM2RB9J6HCQ	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Sunny Randall is a winning heroine...	I enjoyed this third installment of Parker's \\"Sunny Randall\\" series. She is a good successor to aging P.I. Spenser. The change of gender and the substitution of a gay protector, Spike, in place of Hawk, offer interesting variants on the \\"Spenser\\" world that Parker's fans have loved for 29 novels featuring that character. Of course, there is a romantic entanglement with complications here, like Spenser and his Susan, and of course, of course, a beloved dog. I withheld a \\"five star\\" rating only because the bad guys in this one were a little less credible than in the other books. Perhaps I enjoyed this more than some other reviewers because I do a kind of counseling/therapy in my own work life, and a large part of this novel involves psychotherapy. I think Sunny and her ex-husband Richie are great characters who could have a long run, if Parker doesn't decide to retire anytime soon. If you have not yet read any of the Sunny Randall thrillers, start with the first and catch up!	2002-12-21
US	40325486	RETHKSHQLBLBJ	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not the best in the series, but I enjoyed it anyway...	My copy of this Spenser novel was borrowed, not purchased. Therefore, the fact that it isn't quite as good as most of the others I've read didn't bother me too much. If you read a dozen or so of the many other reviews posted here, you will get a pretty good idea of what's weak in \\"Widow's Walk.\\" After so many years, those of us who have read most or all in the series can just about predict the dialogue from Spenser, Susan and Hawk. And Robert B. Parker's books are almost all dialogue. He never wastes much time on needless description. That's a trait I happen to like, but others may disagree. It's a quick read, and it did keep my interest enough to make me postpone a little housework to spend time finishing. I like all the characters so much, but I would enjoy another Sunny Randle outing soon, and maybe a book in which Hawk takes center stage at long last. Spenser and Susan have had a great run, but both are truly darn close to retirement age. Had I purchased this in hardcover,  I would have felt less than satisfied. Perhaps in the next one, Spenser could sell his private eye biz to a protege and just be teaching him or her the ropes? Pearl the wonder dog seems close to death in this episode. I have loved Mr. Parker's books for 20 years. I don't think he needs to retire totally, as has Dick Francis, but it seems time to let Spenser recede.	2002-12-09
US	40325486	R21IOXD84R2C78	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Good idea, but needs more laughs per page...	Love Janet. Love all the Plum novels. This one is better in the concept than it is between the covers, however. It's ultimately silly, but it did keep my interest. I found it too short on belly laughs, and without Ranger or Bob the Golden Gourmet dog, it seemed a bit hollow. People will perhaps accuse Janet of being too greedy and taking advantage of Plum-addicted fans. I hope that's not true. To those of us who are hooked, a year is a long time to wait for a book we'll devour within 24 hours of purchase or snatching it from the library shelf. I went through that cycle with Dick Francis for 20 years or so, and it hurts. An \\"interim novella\\" at year's end that makes a good Christmas present is a fine idea, as long as the quality truly holds up. This initial try is just a tad weak. Better luck next year, Janet. I bought this in hardcover as an early holiday present for my wife, who got the Stephanie Plum habit from me, an old Trenton kid. She enjoyed \\"Visions\\" more than I did, so the gift was a success. Both of us are eagerly awaiting number nine in the full-length saga. And this time, don't skimp on the really funny stuff!	2002-12-09
US	40325486	R3EIK0MWOGJ8O3	9999418562	61888966	Escape from Skepticism: Liberal Education As If Truth Mattered	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Thoughtful argument about true "liberal education"...	(My review is for the original 1977 edition...the 112-page paperback. It is possible the 2001 edition, which seems to have 39 more pages, may be a wiser purchase.) In this challenging, well-written and always interesting essay, Catholic philosopher and educator Derrick presented his critique of several trends prevalent in 1976 America: philosophy taught as if the freedom to believe anything or nothing, or that all beliefs have equal value, was the point; \\"liberal arts\\" college educations in which the 18-to-21- year-old students were treated as if they were already wise enough to pick their own subjects to study; \\"Catholic\\" colleges which do not conform to traditional Catholic teaching or let that doctrine inform ALL subjects, and many more observations  worthy of consideration, even if, as I have, the reader ultimately disagrees with Christopher. I wish I had been loaned the updated version by the friend who sent this to me for comment, because life in college and in the Church and in the world seems quite a bit different than it was 25 years ago. When Mr. Derrick created his book, there were far fewer \\"non-traditional\\" students seeking bachelor's degrees than we find today. One wonders if he would change some of his analysis based on their needs and gifts and life experiences. Also, the position of the Roman Catholic Church in American life has sustained some hard blows, especially from the sex abuse scandals (which were beginning to be publicized 20 years ago, not just in the past two years as many non-Catholics might think.) While Derrick takes pains to separate his belief in the Catholic Church as the One True Faith from \\"current\\" beliefs and actions of fallible priests, bishops and theologians, he was writing before John Paul II became Pope and before the cover-ups and excusing of active gay and sex-offending clergy became an issue. As an Englishman, Derrick notes that his personal life experience of growing up Catholic differs greatly from the experiences of Catholic immigrants to America, and he explains that difference cogently. If you have a professional or personal interest in Catholicism, in \\"Catholic\\" colleges, in philosophy and how it is taught as an academic subject, or in \\"liberal arts education\\" as a concept, this book is valuable. You certainly do not have to convert 100 percent to Derrick-ism to find many of his ideas meritorious. I attended a non-religious college, but converted to Catholicism at 20 and stayed more or less in the fold until past 40. I am neither an academic nor an intellectual, but I recognized myself in many spots within Mr. Derrick's book,usually in unflattering descriptions, from his viewpoint. He would most likely not respect my  philosophy, if I can be said to have one at nearly 58 years of age, or my new religious choice, or think my  education very useful. While he did not persuade me to his  point of view entirely, he challenged my  beliefs on every other page, which is why it took me three weeks to read this short book. Often, the 30 seconds it took to read a sentence or two made me put the book down and think about whether he was right or not for hours, or even days. An author who can do that to an opinionated geezer is pretty skilled indeed.	2002-11-10
US	40325486	R24E2X309BGPN4	0553802518	943340840	The Survivors Club	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Killer thriller novel gets better by the page...	This was my first Gardner book, but it won't be my last. The villain is brilliant and oh-so-sick; the heroes are brave, troubled, and worth rooting for. The plot twists are unpredictable and clever. As a man, I found the depictions of three rape survivors to be educational as well as moving. The Rhode Island setting is not something you can find routinely in suspense novels, either. This tale presents us with about 18 characters, good, bad, and inbetween, who come off as people with depth. That's not easy to do in a 300-page formula suspense tale. It would make a nice four-hour television mini-series, if those were being churned out anymore. To shorten it to two hours or less might do the book a disservice. It is a Lifetime Cable kind of story, since women battling obstacles is the core of the book, but the chief male character needs his screen time, too, and deserves it. If you like crime novels in general, don't skip this one...it is one of the best in recent years.	2002-10-18
US	40325486	R3BQRYCZ5B44FH	0060188901	827417473	Enough Rope	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Bargain price, bundle of brilliant stories...	I discovered Lawrence Block when he was writing a monthly column for \\"Writer's Digest\\" magazine back in the late 70's. His contribution was always the highlight of each issue, so I began reading his novels and short stories. Now almost all of his shorter pieces, over a 40-year career, are in this volume...885 pages worth. For the price, you can't get another book that will give you as much enjoyment as this one, and teach you about well-crafted writing to boot. All his tales have a twist, and he wastes no words. Block is as good in his own way as Dick Francis and Robert B. Parker are in theirs. I had read many of these older stories in the 80's, but forgot the details until encountering them again in this volume. He'll occasionally make you laugh, more often give you a shiver, but always, his people resonate, even the darkest characters. If you know Block's work from his mystery/detective/humor series, you already know that you want to own this. If you haven't started the LB habit yet, this is \\"Enough Rope\\" to tie you up in him for years.	2002-10-06
US	40325486	RUT5SBRCSMSIV	0684811618	918524732	Print the Legend: The Life and Times of John Ford	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Comprehensive almost to a fault...	Unless you are old like me and remember many John Ford movies from their original 50's release dates, or you have a semi-professional interest in film directing, this book offers more than one needs to know about a complex, often unlikeable, sometimes generous, routinely selfish genius. It isn't just a bio of John Ford, respected director with a 40-year career...it also functions as a partial history of movie-making itself, since Ford began before 1920, when films were silent, and ended up in the mid-60's, when wide screens, technicolor,  blatant sex and violence and changes in how movies were financed stranded him in a very different professional atmosphere. To a person with a more casual interest in Ford and his films, like me, the book had many surprises. Ford was cruel on the set to many actors whom he befriended away from the cameras, John Wayne and Hank Fonda included. Ford was a binge drinker, and kept his sprees separate from his duties until the mid-1950's, rather late in his progressive alcoholism. Ford was capable of great kindness, generosity and loyalty, but also held grudges for decades. He was not only personally brave in World War II while filming the real battle of Midway, he was tuned in enough to have joined the Navy and prepared for documenting the war on film a full year before Pearl Harbor. He also showed courage in standing up to the Communist witch-hunts in the early 50's. He was sometimes a liberal Democrat, sometimes a conservative Republican. His final decade was full of illness and idleness and loneliness and undoubtedly some bitterness. If you are a lover of \\"American\\" movies, John Ford's story will be essential for you. I'm glad I read it, but I don't think I'll ever need to read it a second time, or keep the book in my personal collection.	2002-08-22
US	40325486	RQ9LKB2Y9VQ02	0312868731	336749750	The Bishop in the West Wing: A Bishop Blackie Ryan Novel	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Blackie has fun tweaking the self-righteous...	I enjoyed this Blackie Ryan entry, but the reviewers who thought Fr. Greeley slams the GOP a little too often do have a point. I am myself a fairly liberal Democrat, so it didn't turn me off. In fact, it is a nice counter to having arrogant know-it-alls like Ann Coulter on top of the best-seller list for slamming liberals as if we are all direct helpers of Satan. Don't take the politics of the book seriously... it is meant to be a rather light-hearted mystery that is a quick read, an enjoyable few hours, a peek inside the workings of the White House, and an informal education into poltergeist phenomena. On that level the book delivers. I also liked his previous entry, &quot;Beggar Girl of St. Germain&quot; quite a lot, maybe better than this one. I was not impressed with the one before that, &quot;Missing L Train.&quot; That was truly weaker than we expect from the prolific priest. I've read dozens of Greeley books, and always learned something useful about life, love, Catholicism, Chicago, the Irish, and writing itself. Accept his fiction as being meant for fun, while appreciating the optimistic life philosophy he sneaks in every few pages. Greeley's books are good medicine, but not strong medicine. Take two a week and you'll feel better for years!	2002-08-22
US	40325486	R2ULUJQTSKPGAQ	0312871880	757746362	Irish Stew!	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Not ashamed to admit I love this series...	If you are going to read any of the \\"Nuala and Dermot\\" books, start with the first one and do them in order. If you hate the first, it's OK to quit. I like them all, but then I like nearly 90 percent of Fr. Greeley's output, and over the decades I've probably read about 90 percent of his total. I am only an eighth Irish, have only been to the airport in Chicago, and no longer consider myself Catholic, but I still am hooked. This group of novels are just plain fun. There are two mysteries, one from the past, one in the present, to solve, plus a progressive love story and cameo appearances by many of Greeley's stock characters in the Ryan-Kane-Murphy-Casey extended families. To enjoy these books, one has to suspend a lot of disbelief...Nuala Anne McGrail Coyne, our sexy, feisty, low self-esteem Irish peasant heroine, achieves a world class singing career rather too easily, for instance, and her husband, Dermot, may be too rich too easily, and too multi-talented to be credible. However, both are so darn likeable you won't give a flip about the unreality. If you like any of Greeley, I cannot imagine not liking this series. Each book has sex, humor, suspense, a bit of danger, a lot of history, an explication of how modern-day yuppies can still be practicing and sincere Catholics. the \\"Irish\\" series may not earn respect from the academic literati, but the plots are not dull, and the feeling when you are done is that all can be (mostly) right with the world if you do your part to play by the rules. For a celibate priest, Andy Greeley sure knows how to write about the healthy parts of lust and love and desire and the mysterious compulsion that brings men and women together despite their being different creatures altogether.	2002-08-22
US	40325486	R3P414KE6KUOM5	0825671868	196889577	Irving Berlin: A Life in Song (The Companion Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinatin' look at songwriter's life and craft...	An excellent short bio of the wondrously talented songwriter who had little musical education yet produced hundreds of great popular songs between 1908 and the end of the century (He died at 101.) As a non-musician, I didn't always understand the author's explanations of why a particular standard broke new lyrical or musical ground, but I found the information riveting anyway. Berlin, the immigrant, became a symbol of the American Dream and deservedly so. Anyone who cherishes American music should read this.	2002-05-31
US	40325486	R3UVYUS3C9M2OE	034537231X	501739597	Reefsong	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unique blending of fantasy, South Seas thrills, and sci-fi	The early paperback originals by Carol are out of print now, but for fantasy lovers they are worth searching out and buying used. A Peace Corps veteran who served in Micronesia, a resident of the Big Island of Hawaii who worked there as a journalist, Carol knows her South Pacific mythology and how to spin a suspenseful story as well. \\"Reefsong\\" and \\"Sorcerous Sea\\" and \\"Demon Drums\\" feature courageous females, bloody battles, mystical religions, deep ocean wonders, and the occasional love interest. Hard to describe, hard to put down after a few chapters. I knew the author briefly, many years ago, before she became a novelist. I can proudly say I am jealous of her achievements. If you want a few hours of escape from your normal, land-locked, fully-human environment, try these books if you can find them.  Her work is really different, and not just for women: \\"Demon Drums\\" has some tension over torture that was hard for me to stomach. The other titles are less bloody.	2002-04-18
US	40325486	R3NUY8GIOS8NK8	1590710010	215179731	Henry's List of Wrongs	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Neat idea, good execution, worthwhile read...	This writer is based in Kansas City and this is his first novel. If he had waited 20 years to explore the same idea, I probably would give it five stars instead of four, because the concept he explores is so profound, I think it takes a heap of life experience to do it full justice. Still, it's a fine achievement Mr. Shepherd has produced. His hero, Henry Chase, is 27. As a teen, his life was difficult and he suffered a psychic wound to his heart and ego which led him to become a callous S.O.B., but a financially successful one. He cheats and lies and intimidates and seduces and dumps people to get ahead, and it works great for his first six years out of college. Then he has a moral crisis, and with the help of a mysterious, seemingly wise woman, Henry decides the only way out is to borrow  one of AA's 12 steps and try to make amends. He and Sophie, the mentor/shrink/antagonist/love object who spoke up just in time for Henry to decide to live, journey from Wichita to Philly to NYC and back again. Henry seeks forgiveness, sometimes gets it, sometimes gets punched. Sophie has surprising secrets of her own, and in the end, needs the new Henry to try to save her. I needed 60 pages before I knew I would stay to the finish, but I am glad I did. Not every encounter with Henry's victims is credible in all aspects, but the heart of his efforts has a resonance. There is some humor, and some sensual moments as well, but this is a tale of self-redemption with a little help from a friend. And a tale of some false information and false assumptions and how each leads to both good and not-so-good ends. Call it a coed buddy novel, a road novel, a psychological comedy...there are elements of all those things inside. A love story, too. But if you ever had a parent who drank too much, a friend who betrayed you, a road not taken that turned out for the best, a teen love who spurned you, a parent who died too young, a road taken that turned out for the worst...you will find moments withwhich to identify in this excellent first fiction from a guy to keep an eye on. John Scott Shepherd could become quite a writer as he journeys on.	2002-04-02
US	40325486	R1GBMQWVGXM9TF	0836218051	591496462	The Essential Calvin and Hobbes: a Calvin and Hobbes Treasury	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Still funny after all these years...	The newspaper strip has been gone for quite a few years now, but our boy Calvin and his stuffed (yet sometimes alive) tiger Hobbes have not lost their edge. I recently re-read this book for the first time in four or five years, and it holds up very well. Laughter is great medicine for body and soul, and an hour or two inside the covers of this one makes a person feel much, much better. A nice gift book for someone recuperating from surgery or an illness. Thanks, Bill Watterson...you have brought joy to so many who can't thank you in person!	2002-03-28
US	40325486	RVWYSFZW6RMFS	0684848597	621724421	People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Provocative, debate-stirring, and important...	Twenty years ago, Scott Peck wrote this follow-up to his mega-selling \\"The Road Less Traveled\\". Both are worth reading, not because any one reader will agree with all of Scott's opinions, but because he found a style and vocabulary that helps ordinary folk better understand human behavior, those who study it, and those who try to help people change their own. This one takes a look at some attitudes and behaviors Peck chooses to label as \\"evil\\"...now overused, perhaps, by President Bush in response to the terror attacks on America, but back in 1983 a word that was used much more cautiously. I have owned the book since about 1985 and I've read it about four times. I work as a domestic violence prevention counselor, so it helps me professionally to dip into it at regular intervals. Even if your own career has little to do with therapy, you'll be encountering some folks like the ones Peck describes. There are lazy, narcissistic, deceptive personalities in all walks of life, and a thoughtful reading of this book will help you recognize the type before you get hurt by one. I don't agree with all of Peck's beliefs about evil, or his conclusions...but most of them are reasonable, and all of them worth discussing.	2002-03-28
US	40325486	R13NOFWDKH0SPT	0394171225	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Life-changing book...should forever be in print...	I was shocked when I looked up this book on Amazon and found it not in print, and with only three reviews posted. Then I clicked on the paperback version and found 117 reviews...that's more like it. The book made Malcolm X nationally famous, but not in time to save him from assassination by fellow \\"Black Muslims\\" who resented Malcolm's disenchantment with Elijah Muhammad, founder of the movement. It also made Alex Haley, the \\"as told to\\" writer, renown. What it did for me was to make me much less of a racist than I was before I read it...This book, along with \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" by Harper Lee and \\"Stride Toward Freedom\\" by MLK, were vital steps in my move away from mindless racism. I also credit the singing of Paul Robeson and Harry Belafonte, and the tv news accounts of the civil rights protests in Alabama and Mississippi from 1962-64. But this book is special. I've read it three times. Spike Lee did a good job on the movie, but it doesn't replace the book. If you care about the history of the civil rights struggle, you must read it. Even if you don't, Malcolm's life journey is fascinating and inspiring. He made sense, and his presence scared us whiteys into giving Martin the victories he needed. Without Malcolm X, the \\"non-violent\\" wing of the movement would have had a much harder time.	2002-02-20
US	40325486	R3L3YS81BUDR62	0061311324	465064978	When Prophecy Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of A Modern Group that Predicted the Destruction of the World	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Data nearly 50 years old, but still seems valid...	This work first saw print in 1956. It is the story of a UFO cult in a large city in the Midwest...how it developed, how the leaders recruited followers, how predictions about the coming end of the world started flowing from the psychic members who allegedly channeled messages from the spacemen/pilots. The cult members were told they would be saved, picked up by saucers on an appointed date. The members quit jobs, sold possessions, and gathered, only to be disappointed. Did they all quit in a huff? No way. The first failure only made them more determined they were right, more anxious to be ready for the next announced departure date. Then a second failure. A few members fell away, a few suffered doubts, a few challenged for leadership themselves. The point of this book is that it takes \\"three disconfirmations\\" to kill a movement of true believers, and even then, some still hang on to the discredited \\"theology\\" by grasping at excuses. I found this book by accident about 30 years ago, and have read it at least four times. I find it fascinating. In the 1970's I knew two women in Albuquerque who were amateur psychics. They started bringing forth \\"space brethren messages\\" and eventually, although they failed to attract a following, they went up into the nearby mountains one night sure they would be lifted off before the coming unspecified disaster. They waited, but no ship appeared. I think people inclined toward UFO beliefs haven't changed much since this book was published. The basic data shown in this study can apply to religious or political groups as well. I am sorry it is out of print, but if you have an interest in this field, get a used copy...the prices are reasonable and the book will not disappoint!	2002-02-20
US	40325486	R1NMC1VUQBAKAV	0786709421	371420800	Bleeders: A "Nameless Detective" Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	And the last shall be first...	I have read a couple of other books by Pronzini, but none in the &quot;Nameless Dectective&quot; series. This new one, &quot;Bleeders&quot;, is apparently going to be the final effort in this group. It is a quick, interesting read, done by a veteran who knows how to hook us. Now I will have to go back and catch up on the earlier life of the main character. If you like Robert B. Parker or Lawrence Block, you will also like Pronzini.	2002-02-16
US	40325486	RXMZ7WVKTMQ1R	0809493586	457653994	A Private Disgrace: Lizzie Borden by Daylight (Chronicles of Crime)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	For my money, the best of them all about Lizzie...	I have been interested in Lizzie Borden for 40 years, and have read at least a dozen books on the case. I think this is the best of the lot. If you can find a copy, hard or paper, new or used, you can't go wrong. Read it for entertainment, or for scholarship. Mrs. Lincoln really did this one right.	2002-02-03
US	40325486	RINK3YQ0A1V5G	0312917406	607041484	001: How Did They Die? Vol. 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great achievement, deserves reprinting...	I own a hardcover copy of what I suppose would now be called \\"volume one\\" of \\"How Did They Die?\\" Its subtitle is \\"The last days, words, afflictions and resting places of over 300 notables throughout history.\\" Since all of us will die, but few will ever be noted in a book like this, the book is surprisingly compelling. Each entry is short, and it is hard to stop reading once you begin. The Donaldsons did good work in putting this together. Those who want a copy in 2002 may have to settle for used, but it will be worth it. From John Adams to Brigham Young, this book has covered most of the best-known folks.	2002-02-03
US	40325486	R32121JTSDX4UA	0828100926	173375110	Faces from the past	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Poignant portrait photos, excellent essays...	Richard Ketchum's book came out in 1970, and those who want a copy in 2002 will have to settle for a used volume. Still, it is worthwhile if you are interested in American history and culture or early American photography. There are only 33 &quot;Faces from the Past&quot; shown and described here, but there is a nice variety, from John Brown the abolitionist to Winslow Homer the artist. Dolley Madison is here, in quite an early photo, and you will also find Stonewall Jackson, Booker T. Washington, Andrew Jackson, and Robert E. Lee. I enjoyed the lesser-known entries even more, such as Ned Buntline, Maria Mitchell, Evelyn Nesbit, Donald McKay, and especially John Livingston, a veteran of the Revolutionary War. He is considered to be the earliest-born American of whom a photograph exists. Mathew Brady took his photo in 1844. The man was born in 1755. His brother was a signer of the Declaration of Independence. John fought in the Battle of Princeton, and probably had earlier seen action at the Battle of Trenton. Since I was born and raised halfway between those neighboring war sites, I found this tidbit quite moving. It is a fine book, and deserves a reprint.	2002-02-03
US	40325486	R2Z8MBSR5LJKYW	0801534259	580074834	Here lies America: A collection of notable graves	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sounds morbid, but it is fascinating instead...	Before the internet came along and brought us the  &quot;Findagrave&quot; website, there was this book. It contains photos of the gravesites of more than 80 notable Americans, with a one-page essay about the person and the resting place. I've owned my copy since l978, and I wouldn't part with it. I fancy myself an amateur historian of American culture, and this book delighted me. Among my favorite entries are Herman Melville, Horatio Alger Jr., Emily Dickinson, Robert Frost, Lewis and Clark, Chang and Eng Bunker (The Original Siamese Twins)Currier and Ives, Lizzie Borden, Henry David Thoreau, Pierre Charles L'Enfant, Harry Houdini, George M. Cohan, Babe Ruth, Casey Jones, Mathew Brady, John Philip Sousa, Cole Porter, George Gershwin. That's only one-fourth of the listings. This is a fine start, but there is room for many sequels. Buy the book, if you can find it, and go out and create newer volumes.	2002-02-03
US	40325486	R3022794701W3C	0385333854	710547068	Woody Guthrie: A Life	Books	5	13	15	N	N	So long, it's been good to know ya...	I concur with the majority of reviews of this book. I have owned my hardcover copy for many years, and I've read it three times. Joe Klein did a good job. For most people, there is more here about Woody, his times, his friends and his foes and his sorrows than they will want or need to know. However, I must also advise true fans to consider buying another book, &quot;Woody, Cisco and Me&quot; by Jim Longhi. That one depicts only the WW II adventures when Woody and his friends took jobs feeding the crew and troops on merchant ships crossing the Atlantic in l943. It shows a side of Woody that Joe Klein's work does not, and both books should be read or owned by people with a serious interest in this wiry, weird genius.	2002-02-02
US	40325486	R28HPX70HCGCP6	0394742885	400767263	Iwo Jima: Legacy of Valor	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Wonderful book depicting unspeakable slaughter...	With all the attention given James Bradley's &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot; over the past couple of years, I have been afraid that Bill Ross might be neglected. This earlier work on Iwo Jima is really different than &quot;Flags&quot; and for a full understanding of that battle, both should be read. &quot;Legacy&quot; is a fuller and better-written depiction of the difficulties and horrors of the fight, and of the political decisions that led to it and shaped its progress, or lack of it. &quot;Flags&quot; is excellent in its own way, but is more the tale of the accidentally famous flag-raisers after the island was won, and before they enlisted. This is a grim and gripping story, and it is unlikely anyone else will come along and do a better job telling the tale of Iwo.	2002-01-26
US	40325486	R24OY5PQQ0TGF7	0750921676	264509191	The Battle for Iwo Jima,1945	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another look at bloody Iwo...	Derrick Wright lives in England, and so his way of viewing the Iwo Jima fight has a slightly different tone than the two best books by Americans, Bill Ross's \\"Legacy of Valor\\" and James Bradley's \\"Flags of Our Fathers.\\" I don't feel comfortable saying that I \\"enjoyed\\" any of these three books on the battle...the fight was too costly in American lives, and too horrifying, to use the word \\"enjoy.\\" My former father-in-law was there, and is quoted in Wright's book briefly. This is a worthy effort, and surprisingly, although I read all three of the books I mentioned in the same year, each is different enough from the others so that I did not feel I was reading the same book three times at all. The current price on this book seems a little high to me, however, and I would suggest buying \\"Legacy\\" or \\"Flags\\" first. In all the Iwo books, the dominant impressions one is left with are of courage, grace under fire, stress, fear, tension, endurance, and the ugliness of violent death on both sides. If you want to begin to understand U.S. Marines, and to value them, start with the books on Iwo Jima. Imagine yourself, at l8 or 20 years old, having to face what these guys faced when hitting the beaches. Don't be surprised if you have nightmares after reading.	2002-01-26
US	40325486	R3GBH8JAMZF6SF	156584288X	787553495	Paul Robeson	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Probably the best book on Paul we'll ever get...	Martin Duberman presents an exhaustive, objective examination of the awesomely talented, psychologically complex, and perhaps politically naive  Robeson. I am white, and grew up in a racist family, but from the moment I heard Paul Robeson's recording of &quot;Get On Board, Little Children&quot; I was hooked. I was only 14, but that song, less than 90 seconds long, launched me on a journey away from bigotry that is still proceding, 43 years later. I fell in thrall to the voice, ended up owning 11 vinyl albums and reading everything by and about him I could. His defense of Stalin-era Communism is stubborn and troubling, but there is no disputing his importance as a fighter for civil rights before it was fashionable. I am not sure how those of us who were not yet adults in the '40's and '50's can fairly judge the politics of the man...especially those of us who are not Afro-American. I prefer to let his controversial politics take a backseat to his pioneer acting and singing. This was a real MAN, who could hold a stage with only his voice and his charisma and his talent, making white, affluent audiences listen to negro spirituals, union songs, Chinese and Russian and German songs, and like it. Robeson was glorious and tragic, brilliant and flawed, courageous but sometimes selfish, furious often and yet capable of the most tender lullabies. One of the most fascinating American lives of the 20th Century. Professor Duberman has done great work with this book. If Robeson interests you, buy it and read it. I'm glad I did.	2002-01-19
US	40325486	RJWT9AO674V5X	0306807157	693131635	Remembering Buddy: The Definitive Biography Of Buddy Holly	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The best biography of Buddy...and best balanced...	I've been a fan of Buddy's since he was still alive. This is the best biography available. The authors do not deal in sensationalism and wacko explorations of Buddy's sex life or possible contributions to the crash of the plane. He died at 22, and was only famous for two years, and never was wealthy. He can be expected to have had moments of immaturity, and to have made mistakes in judgement. But the overwhelming evidence is that he was a nice, normal young adult with abnormal talent for singing, songwriting, guitar-playing and record-producing. He's been gone for more than 40 years, and he left about 80 recordings behind. Those performances are still wonderful, and this book tells you a lot about how they were created and captured and preserved. Who needs anything else?	2001-12-31
US	40325486	R3EL6QJOVLJ40R	0252067002	473130467	WOODY CISCO & ME: Seamen Three in the Merchant Marine (Music in American Life)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful look at Woody and Cisco at sea...	If you are a fan of Woody, or Cisco, or both, buy this book before it goes out of print. Jim Longhi served with them on several U.S. Merchant Marine voyages during WWII, and he shows us just how much courage it took to help the war effort in that manner.This may be the closest thing to a real biography of Cisco Houston that fans will ever get. The Woody Guthrie you meet in these pages is a guy who had already achieved some fame due to his record &quot;Dust Bowl Ballads&quot; which came out in l940. Here, in l943, he is still ten years away from being disabled by Huntington's Disease. These three left-wing unionizers (Jim is an interesting man in his own right, though not a real musician) were mostly broke, but patriotic and brave and great morale-boosters for the common soldiers who often traveled on merchant ships across the Atlantic, where u-boat attacks were a continual threat. Torpedoed once and once hitting a mine, the &quot;Seamen Three&quot; were indeed in life-threatening combat situations.This is not just insightful, or worshipful towards Woody. It is often hilarious as well. The depiction of a maritime character called Courtroom Kelly is only a chapter in the middle, but it is worth the purchase price all by itself. Thanks, Jim, for doing this project. Anyone who has read, or who owns, Woody's own &quot;Bound for Glory&quot; or Joe Klein's &quot;Woody Guthrie: A Life&quot; needs to have this book in the collection as well.	2001-12-28
US	40325486	R1M8G35P7X1VFX	0674530802	991127990	The Life of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	21	23	N	N	We'll never have a better biography of Emily...	Professor Sewall spent about 20 years getting this massive and beautifully presented biography put together, and his scholarship, devotion, persistence and talent shine in every chapter. He used original source material, much of it for the first time anywhere. He describes the lives of many Dickinsons, ancestors and descendants, of the mysterious poet...and getting to know these people helps us comprehend her art and her life. This book came out about l974, and was the first to reveal the now-famous adultery of Emily's brother Austin and Mable Loomis Todd, wife of the Amherst College astronomy professor. This doomed and illicit love lasted 13 years and was a key factor in how and when Emily's poems got published. We didn't get ALL of them until 69 years after the writer died, and Sewall's book tells us why. Professor Sewall hews to common sense in examining Emily's love life, her reclusiveness, and her probable  sexual orientation. While he admits that abuse in childhood is possible as a factor in Emily's later choices or limitations, he clearly shows that it is also improbable. I have depended on this work in my own E.D.  researches over a 20-year period, and corresponded with the author on and off for about ten years, although I never met him. In my opinion, any study of Emily BEGINS with this book if one wants to do it right. Buy it before it finally goes out of print or you will be sorry. It is a complex and magnificent achievement.	2001-12-13
US	40325486	R3Q8PSFFZE8F7M	0393316564	59739137	The World of Emily Dickinson	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautiful book by one of the best ED scholars...	You can never go wrong buying a book by Polly Longsworth. Especially if it is about enigmatic,obstinate Emily Dickinson. Ms. Longsworth knows her subject as well as, or better than, any other active ED author. She has a common-sense approach to the famous ED obscurities and mysteries, born of decades of study and the influence of Richard Benson Sewall, Yale professor and creator of the Pulitzer-prize winning \\"Life of Emily Dickinson\\" in l974. That's the best biography of the poet we have or are ever likely to have. Polly writes well and this book shows off the Amherst of ED's era in ways that nicely complement the text and the poetry. She's also a nice person, kind to other ED researchers, both professional and amateur. Not everyone in that specialty qualifies for such a compliment. As a person who has written a play about Emily's survivors and how they struggled to get her poems published, I have had reason to correspond with lots of Dickinson buffs over a 20-year period. Polly and Sewall and William Luce, author of the play \\"Belle of Amherst\\" made room in their lives for letters from an unknown. Many others did not. This book is inexpensive, fortunately, but it is a grand addition to the library of any fan of Emily's. The fact that its creator is also a decent sort is just frosting on the cake.	2001-12-12
US	40325486	R1UA0TVRQPLFNH	1558492151	982481250	Austin and Mabel: The Amherst Affair and Love Letters of Austin Dickinson and Mabel Loomis Todd	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Steamy story behind the publication of Emily's poetry...	Emily Dickinson is often a religious poet, and more often than many think, an erotic one. She is famous for her mysteries and contradictions and elusiveness. She died and left more than l700 poems, many almost indecipherable, and a number of them \\"uncertainly finished.\\" Her sister Vinnie wanted the works to see print, but could not persuade her brother Austin's wife Sue to get the job done, so she turned to Austin's mistress, Mabel,  who was also married. This is the lovers' story, told through 13 years of self-justifying letters and diary entries. More importantly, it is the story of how Mabel took on the job of copying and editing the poems to please her lover, and perhaps to irritate her enemy, Sue. Emily became famous about five years after she died due to Mabel's efforts. Polly Longsworth did a fine job condensing love letters and diary entries to give us a picture of these tormented souls, whose relationships all ended badly. The actual love letters between Austin and Mabel clearly show that neither had Emily's literary talent, but both had her passion. Where Emily apparently suppressed carnality, her brother and his \\"other woman\\" reveled in it. If you are as fascinated by Emily's life as you are by her poetry, this part of the tale, while largely occurring after she died, is essential to know. A very worthwhile addition to the saga of Emily Dickinson.	2001-12-08
