US	40359330	R1OAKTFUKPVATK	074353686X	797524495	Albanian: Learn to Speak and Understand Albanian with Pimsleur Language Programs	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very good introduction	Having completed nearly a dozen of the Pimsleur \\"compact\\" series of 10 lessons, I can say the Albanian program is as good as the best. Far from thorough, the purpose of these \\"compact\\" courses is to get the ball rolling, to learn simple sentences, interact with natives, get a feel for hearing and pronounciation, and gaining confidence to engage in further study. <br /> <br />I am very confused by the reviewer who gave it 2 stars. The Albanian spoken in Kosovo (Serbia) is quite different from the native Albanian spoken in the country. While mutually intelligible the differences are pronounced. He/she also dismisses the booklet, which isn't a \\"vocab\\" builder but a guide that goes with the program in basic reading lessons. The words in the booklet are meant as a guide to pronounciation of written Albanian - nothing more. <br /> <br />After this program you will definitely have a feel for the sound and unique nature of this language, be able to make some small talk, and be more prepared to continue your studies.	2005-09-05
US	40359330	R2KN8D5FUBOJ7F	0975599518	192748477	Natural Cures "They" Don't Want You to Know about	Books	1	21	28	N	N	Gives Snake Oil a Bad Name	Do you notice that on the cover of this book that is barely a month old, it says very clearly \\"Updated Edition.\\" How clever, no matter WHEN you buy the book, rest assured, you have the \\"updated\\" version. Those in the market for this book will no doubt be somewhat familiar with the VAST literature currently available on alternative cures and medicines, and to keep them from thinking perhaps this is just another tome on the matter, we have the \\"updated\\" marketing gimmick. And that is all Kevin is, a marketing machine who repackages the latest fads or oldest fads and sells them as only Kevin can. <br /> <br />Years ago it was speed reading, then it was mega-memory, and now Dr. Kevin is going to make all our ills go away. Why would anyone trust this guy or pay him a cent with the assumption he has ANYTHING of value to offer? Read the reviews here, or note he was BANNED by the FTC for selling any product (except a book - thanks 1st Amendment) in an informercial format. You don't get banned by the FTC for being a good guy, or an honest businessman. Please don't make this guy any richer, it saddens me deeply that this repackaged combination of common sense & hysterical nonsense has sold so much already. Geez, you can't even get past the cover of the book without being scammed.	2005-08-26
US	40359330	R3DDJSCAU87G3B	1560255897	892815489	The I Hate George W. Bush Reader: Why Dubya Is Wrong About Absolutely Everything (The ""I Hate"" Series)	Books	1	21	103	N	N	Let's all have a good cry	I wish I could understand liberals, I really do. One reviewer here complains about how Bush can't technically be tagged a liar because of his use of generalities. Isn't saying that Bush is \\"WRONG ABOUT ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING\\" a generality? I mean, really -- he was wrong to even pardon the Turkey before Thanksgiving? For those without a sense of humor (or your average NPR listener) that was a witticism, what Americans call jokes.  <br /> <br />Gosh you get mad when people point out you \\"hate\\" America, but isn't this book a testament to that fact? Just to save you some time, I understand that you are now thinking that I am both a nazi who believes \\"W\\" is synonymous with \\"America\\" and I'm also a McCarthyite who smears anyone who doesn't agree with my \\"America, right or wrong\\" mentality. So with that out of the way, only an insane person would believe that Bush isn't desperately concerned with protecting America and defeating REAL religious fanatics that want to do terrible things to YOU before cutting your head off. Whether you agree with his methods is a different story, but if you don't agree with his sentiment than you identify with the enemies of America and therefore can't possibly be patriotic. You are agreeing that it is more important to write a book about hating our president rather than the crazy, WMD-sucking madmen who killed over 3,000 Americans in mere seconds, and would be more than happy to continue doing so.  <br /> <br />If you DO agree that Bush is sincere in his desire to protect America than he can't be wrong about everything, and you have somewhat of a social duty to not totally crap on the man most responsible for keeping us free and safe (until Hillary wins in 2008, of course). <br /> <br />If you think the war is a pretext to take over the world, and that Bush has confused national security with world conquest - well, then you have either the option of a pill to cure you, or a cult to embrace you. But even to the girls who earn hard cash a dollarat a time adjacent to a greasy pole you would be considered quite dumb. Let me ask you -- if we were after oil, then why didn't we take it in 1990 with the 1st Gulf War? Isn't that what you said at the time was our reason for going to war then (oh I know it is -- I was in DC at the time and saw the protests on the mall regularly). And if we liberated Iraq to conquer it, why did they have elections with no one named \\"Smith\\" or \\"Johnson\\" on the ballot? And finally, WHY IS OIL TO DAMN EXPENSIVE TODAY???  Jeez, I WISH we had gone to war for oil, at least I wouldn't have to buy cheaper cigars just so I can keep my SUV topped-off! <br /> <br />All in all, having perused these books, let me just remind you that \\"HATE\\" is not a family value, and also that Canada is a lovely, lovely place to live.	2005-04-18
US	40359330	R2M03RUU18P3HC	0974537632	879577318	A Deficit of Decency	Books	5	220	300	N	N	Life is more important than politics	Zell Miller is a living embodiment of the good things we all strive for, honesty, integrity, and a humble apprecation for the benefits of hard work that lead to a life worth living. I don't think many people today can be happy with the level of discourse in politics or our culture; it is narcissistic and decadent that rewards people with no talent or gift beyond self-promotion and smearing the values of the people who unwittingly made them millioniaires. As the product of a southern culture some years back that rewarded virtue and sincerity, Zell is an impeccable candidate to chronicle the current woes of our cultural discourse. While some may see this as a cranky old man complaining \\" 'bout the way things USED to be \\" - it is nothing of the sort. It is a firm but loving letter from a patriot who knows life in America will be far improved for all when the garbage is taken to the curb, and away from our eardrums.  <br /> <br />Open any newspaper or turn on your televion today, and you'll see ink and airwaves telling us all about people like Madonna, Eminem, and other assorted dim-wits who crave attention. These people and their kind add nothing to the quality of life or values of America, yet the media follows their every move.  <br /> <br />Watch cable tv and you'll see Hollywood movie stars that didn't finish high school lecturing George Bush and Donald Rumsfeld on foreign policy, using insults, slander and perjoratives without fail. The more insulting and \\"outrageous\\" they are, the more coverage they recieve. It is they who spew hatred and vitriol into our lives, it is Zell who argues for courtesy and manners. <br /> <br />Watch the evening news and you'll see Democrats nightly attack George Bush as worse than Saddam Hussein (Sen. Kennedy), throw tantrums when the President seeks to fulfill his duty to fill the judiciary and threaten filibusters when the MINORITY is kept from controlling appointments (Daschle, Boxer, Reid, etc.) or make ridiculous lies that the President should be impeached (Rangel, Frank, McDermott).  <br /> <br />To top it off, the major broadcast media serve as a mouthpiece for every piece of leftwing propaganda (Dan Rather, 60 Minutes) and regardless of how little the facts comport with the fictious claims of the left, the anti-Bush and anti-conservative demagogues never seem to have trouble having their grievances aired (fraudulent voting machines in Ohio, covered by the network news).  <br /> <br />All this contributes to a culture of vitriol, hate and self-promotion that poisons discourse in America and cheapens our culture. Bravo to Zell, a man with the courage to tell the truth and not be bullied by those who fear he speaks the truth about them.	2005-04-16
US	40359330	R6XDDGIX3554V	0805075607	821236697	The Grammar Bible: Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Grammar but Didn't Know Whom to Ask	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Complete and Very Useable	Our local library had a copy I checked out a few times until I finally bought my own. It's well worth it, though I also enjoy using \\"The only grammar book you'll ever need,\\" the \\"Bible\\" offers more depth and also retains a high level of readability. I recommend both of these books, this volume for its utter depth and clarity, and the one mentioned above for its succinctness. The authors did a great job and you should be very satisfied with this purchase.	2005-04-16
US	40359330	R1IIOPA5LL0TVJ	0895261391	468254470	Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Solid and Concise	Laughably, Charen's central theme in this book is fortified by some of the very reviews appearing right here. Notice how the U.S. is always the oppressor? Regardless of the stated goal and eventual outcome of U.S. intervention in the world, some people (an uncomfortable percentage of liberals) will see the U.S. as the enemy of the good.  <br /> <br />This book needed to be written, as a concise review of the American-hating left and their reckless and self-satisfied international policies. Communism and socialism were always A-Ok, it was capitalism they despised. They still do, of course, but now they are much more careful in how they express themselves. Notice that when the U.S. became the inarguable winner in the Cold-war, and the Soviet quest was discredited once and for all, liberals were all of a sudden cold-warriors all along, and dang if that Soviet Union didn't need a good lickin'! <br /> <br />Better late than never? Hardly, these were people exposed for being on the wrong side of history and the wrong side of humanity. The same people that damned Reagan and did everything they could to demonize and stop him during the 80s, were suddenly \\"reminding\\" us how horrible they thought the U.S.S.R was. Of course Gorby gets all the credit, Reagan is still just a moron actor.	2005-03-29
US	40359330	RSH4LQQA3KZUU	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	2	12	15	N	N	Self-absorbed soullessness	I approached this book with great anticipation. As both a Catholic and avid consumer of the genre of comedy that Hendra helped inspire, I hoped this book would be enlightening and inspiring. Instead I found a memoir of a hedonist who knowingly lives a decadent and spiritless life. Father Joe is merely the \\"giving tree\\" who unconditionally and unjudgementally is \\"there\\" for poor Tony whenever his life is in a mess. Fame and riches lead to self-loathing, which leads to Father Joe. This is a shampoo memoir; rinse and repeat, this pathetic cycle endures throughout his adult life until he finally settles down to have brilliant children, who Tony brings to see Father Joe before the old monk finally expires. Those looking for a soul saving moment can save their money, there isn't one. Nor in all of Tony's earnest pleadings to join the monastary any suggestion he wants to lead a life of purity in order to love God, or serve his fellow man. It is all an escape for him, a place that gives HIM peace, yet which Father Joe wisely forbids him from joining.  <br /> <br />Tony Hendra is a brilliant man and a sublime writer. You will be entranced by his words, his thoughts, and his breadth of knowledge about this world and the next. Yet you won't find a man smart enough or caring enough to serve anyone but himself. I withheld judgment until the end, hoping there would be some salvation for Tony and for me, and was ultimately disappointed. Father Joe sounds like a beautiful man, a true man of God that gave Tony what he wanted by witholding judgement of his actions in a crazy, godless world. I wish I could be as generous in my appraisal of this book, which left me as cold as the heart Hendra exposed in his misspent life.	2005-02-28
US	40359330	R395Q527QYDVWP	0764535412	734502518	Master VISUALLY Photoshop 6	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Perfect for beginner or experienced user	This is a great book whether you're a beginning user or you've been around the block a few times with the program. It is very clearly organized around the various program functions which, makes it great for reading straight through or picking out the functions as you need them. I borrowed the book for options on cropping and removing backgrounds and wound-up purchasing my own copy for its versatility and ease of use. It comes with an accompanying CD that has demo versions of some useful programs, as well as sample artwork and a full copy of the book you can search through on your computer. This book is superior to the \\"Teach Yourself Visually\\" series also from Maran, which tends to really hold your hand through the most basic functions. It is also much clearer than the text-oriented books which have more words than examples. A nice balance overall that all but the most advanced users will appreciate.	2004-09-29
US	40359330	R1213E3ZW3VQOQ	078671378X	376587747	The Politics of Truth: Inside the Lies that Led to War and Betrayed My Wife's CIA Identity: A Diplomat's Memoir	Books	1	19	79	N	N	Proven Traitor	Everyone who blindly supported this traitor and his detailed conspiracy of lies should be banned from political discourse unless/until they apologize for being so stupid. This man made a most serious charge, championed by all liberals including Johny Kerry since, that Bush deliberately lied to the American people about our rationale for war. Now both British and bi-partisan U.S. commissions have reported he flat-out lied.<br /><br /> Those who concoct lies for the purpose of calling others untruthful and the WORST kind of liars and hypocrites. This book will rank up there with &quot;October Surprise&quot; as prized cut-out bin fodder for gullible and angry liberals. At what point does shame ever set in?	2004-07-22
US	40359330	RTYC4BZGFQGRD	0060562544	570610919	American Evita: Hillary Clinton's Path to Power	Books	5	98	126	N	N	Eye-opening	Honest people have never trusted the Clintons by their public persona alone. After all, this is a woman who claimed she was named for Sir Edmond Hillary, despite the fact his famous trek didn't occur until she was 5 years old. <br />Those who ask why we should be afraid of Hillary ask a question that is easy to answer. Better yet, why not ask the staff of the Travel Office she had fired so she could give the lucrative business to her old pals. Worse, she set the FBI after these people on trumped up charges that took a jury less than an hour to dismiss. Is this putting people first, or honoring those who \\"work hard and play by the rules?\\" Hardly, it is crooked and highly hateful. <br />Ask the NY city police officer her limo ran over at the airport, who was hospitalized for two months. He didn't receive an apology, but he and his wife DID receive threats from Hillary's staff to keep quiet about the incident. Is this compassion? Ask Buzz Patterson or members of the Joint Chiefs' staff who were ordered by Hillary NOT to wear their military uniforms in the West Wing. This is patriotism?  <br />Ask the dozens of think tanks and private organizations who opposed the Clintons who just happened to receive IRS audits. IRS audits are actually quite rare, yet somehow on her meager income Paula Jones received one.<br />Hillary has always appeared power-hungry and phony, yet this book tells a lot more about her climb to the top and her future ambitions. Rules are not something Hillary cares much for, unless they apply to everyone else. Many have been on the receiving end of her tirades and ashtray throwing. Ask Dick Morris about her racial slurs or the White House helicopter pilots who were verbally abused by Hillary because they would not alter flight plans for security purposes.<br />Absolutly disturbing that this woman is discussed as a future president, and this book does a tremendous job in keeping the REAL Hillary within public view.	2004-07-09
US	40359330	RI7UOT2A8MQH4	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	1	83	140	N	N	He should have plead the 5th	Clinton is the Warren Harding of the late 20th Century. Harding had a great presidency; peace, prosperity, a roaring economy and oversaw a massive industrial manufacturing boom that made America the dominant nation in the world. Of course, Harding had very little to do with any of these accomplishments and is remembered as perhaps our worst president. His term was filled with scandal, and the prosperity was short-lived.<br />The parallels to Clinton are uncanny. Clinton entered office as a recession came to its cyclical end, and enjoyed the peace dividend of our victory in the Cold War. The end of the S&L bailout (remember that?) that taxed our yearly deficit coupled with an internet boom set the stage for a REPUBLICAN Congress to balance the budget and assert fiscal discipline in Washington (Clinton NEVER proposed a balanced budget with a Democrat Congress, in fact his Labor Secretary, the self-appointed economic guru Robert Reisch stated the administration did not have balanced budgets as a goal in 1993). The economy roared, the stocket market rocketed, and by the time he left office our nation was in recession and suffering from his neglect of corporate corruption and unchecked terrorist activity. <br />Clinton cannot, and has not, pointed to anything specific he did to create the economic success of the 90s, it of course was accomplished by the hard work of the American people. His book attributes deep meaning and importance to his nearly every waking act since kindergarten. As the chief guardian of our constitution and nation's laws, he of course broke them then committed perjury to hide his crime. He was disbarred and impeached, yet Clinton calls this a badge of honor. Anyone who has the time and patience to wade through this unsettling testament to a true sociopath has essentially forfeited the right to complain about anything. Is it possible to admire this man, who solicited campaign donations from the Red Chinese through a conduit he installed in the Commerce Dept., and call yourself a patriot?<br />Clinton embodies the greedy immoral ethos of his generation that shames the honor of the great men who died and fought to make this country free. People who admire Clinton scorn a good man like Clarence Thomas despite the fact Clinton's known offenses of women make Thomas look celibate by comparison. While Clinton gets rich peddling his book and making corporate speeches, Bush is left to revitalize the bust economy and defeat the emboldened terrorists that Clinton willed to him. <br />It is hard to find any act of Clinton that is not self-serving, and this book continues the trend. He demands admiration and/or understanding for everything he has done, like a small insecure child demanding validation. One difference between Clinton and Harding is that Harding admitted he should never have been President. A truly honest book from Clinton would have come to the same conclusion.	2004-07-09
US	40359330	R3BES2T5QCQK9E	1400053781	925238834	Weapons of Mass Distortion: The Coming Meltdown of the Liberal Media	Books	5	153	190	N	N	Authoritative &amp; Essential	Senator Ben Nighthorse Campbell - the Harley riding iconoclastic Native American from Colorado - chuckled about the way the media coverage of him changed. Early in his career he was brash, bold, unconventional and exciting. Later he was called difficult, out-of-touch and lacking sympathy for ordinary people. The change? Campbell switched parties, going from Democrat to Republican. Though his voting record didn't vary, the media account of him did. This singular event, thoughtfully examined tells you everything you need to know about today's modern media. Thankfully, we have LOTS more examples due to the fine work of Brent Bozell and his Media Research Center. They are the authority on analyzing and categorizing the leftist tilt of the national news media. In the last 15 years both the Congress and Presidency have been held by each major party, yet the way the media attributes credit or blame to each somehow varies. When there was a budget impasse in 1990 it was Bush's fault, when again in 1995 it was Newt Gingrich and the GOP Congress' fault. <br />Of course much more than Congress is covered here. Nearly every social and cultural issue that can be politicized is examined. One of the most damning studies involves media labeling. Did you know you can be a Republican with a view on abortion shared by 51% of Americans and be labeled &quot;extreme right&quot;? Not coincidentally, your liberal counterpart can hold truly extreme positions advocating government funded abortion on demand and be labeled a &quot;moderate.&quot; In fact if you had a nickel for every time the national media used a term like &quot;extreme left&quot; you might, with a little luck, one day own a nickel. <br />Economic studies are also devastating. The U.S. economy has not been recession for 2 years, and for nearly a year our economy has been growing at the hottest pace in 20 years. Despite this, the people whom the media inform still think the economy is IN recession. If you were a journalist, should you not be ashamed that people are so uninformed about such a vital fact? Not our national media, who don't mind misleading Americans about the state of our nation so long as it hurts Bush.<br />Bozell names names and tells it like it is in reporter's own words and exhaustive media studies. The 2004 race will be nasty, and the media has their job cut out for them in getting a democrat into the White House. Kerry doesn't have Clinton's charm and blarney so the press will be in turbo-mode to attack Bush and push Kerry. The media inform the public and characterize the state of the world -- such as with the state of our economy -- and are thus far more important to the state of society than ANY elected official. Read this book. Understand how those who control and disseminate information affect the nation and our future. This year it is as important as ever.	2004-07-08
US	40359330	RNRRHT8JTG954	0521838347	892710035	America Alone: The Neo-Conservatives and the Global Order	Books	1	43	232	N	N	Don't Bother...	Any book that starts with the premise that the cold war was won by a diplomacy set in bi-partisanship has absolutely no credibility. While there were some democrats like Scoop Jackson, Les Aspin, Sam Nunn, etc. who did take the Soviet threat seriously, the VAST majority of congressional democrats post-Vietnam pushed appeasement and worked to undermine Republican administrations' efforts to contain the Soviets in both Europe and in the Western Hemisphere. This is especially true of House Democrat leaders who at times offered comfort and reassurance to our enemies. Read &quot;Witness&quot; by Whitaker Chambers or &quot;Useful Idiots&quot; by Mona Charen for more explication, but the very premise of THIS book that the Bush Administration abandoned a consensus diplomatic model due to a neo-con coup is just a riduculous lie.	2004-07-08
US	40359330	R1U9LA33HA5Z7H	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Can You Spell H-Y-P-O-C-R-I-T-E?	A book long overdue. I remember when Michael Moore first came on the scene with &quot;Roger &amp; Me&quot; because I started out as a fan. Roger Smith was running GM - a once proud company that embodied American engenuity and strength - into the ground with shoddy products and arrogant marketing. The fact that this plump, dirty underdog was hounding this man I thought was ultimately an act of patriotism, holding Smith accountable for the shipwreck GM had become. The populism of the movie was a little contrived, afterall it is not a company's responsibility to build factories solely to prop up a local community's economy, but there was a lot Roger Smith had to answer for. The more I learned, however, the more I found that Moore took liberties with the truth that were too large to look beyond. Many scenes of the movie were shot out of sequence to create misleading cause-and-effect scenarios. Other people were cast in unfavorable light by a recounting of the facts that was incomplete at best. I was disappointed, I truly wanted this Moore guy to succeed because I thought there was a need for him. <br />Now over a decade later an overtly leftist Moore is still at it, and the act is beyond tired. Moore is a real menace to America and public discourse in general, and this book points out why. Most of it relates to Moore's skill for lies, deception and hypocrisy. Here is a man who dresses as a scruffy working man, toting an 'aw shucks' attitude, but is anything BUT modest and common. He hates capitalism but owns several homes and cars, and gets to make a living doing what only capitalism itself would permit him to do. He makes &quot;documentaries&quot; pretending to uncover truths that are superficially false and transparent propaganda. He slanders people with irresponsible accusations and carefully crafted smears, then hires a team of lawyers to threaten critics with libel.<br />The real Moore is an overfed Marxist who hates Americans, their society and culture. He visitsforeign audiences to proclaim that Americans are &quot;stupid&quot; and have grins on their faces because their heads are so empty. He calls capitalism &quot;evil&quot; and calls our President an AWOL criminal. In Moore's view, the U.S. should not even have gone to war with the Taliban in Afghanistan, despite the fact they sponsored the 9/11 terrorists. <br />In his latest movie Bush is both an idiot and a cunning criminal mastermind, yet Moore neglects any mention of our enemies from 9/11 that motivate our actions. Of course he never expresses these views in his movies, it would kill all marketing if he were seen as the nutty, hateful leftist that he is instead of the 'regular guy' he pretends to be in public. <br />For those seeking true enlightenment on this subject, hop on the web and seek out reviews of &quot;Fahrenheit 9/11&quot; from Christopher Hitchens (look on slate.com) or Newsweek's Michael Isikoff. Neither could ever be confused for a conservative, and far better than I ever could they give the movie a thorough examination for truth, and both give it a failing grade. <br />I always thought liberals were supposed to be the group that promotes understanding, kindness, peace and not judge people. Remember the &quot;mean people suck&quot; and &quot;hate is not a family value&quot; bumper stickers? The title of this book of course is a combination of two hate-filled tomes from liberals, who seem to eat up hate when it is dished from their own ladles. Moore is &quot;exhibit A&quot; of the name-calling and meanspirited heroes of the left and the media. Yet unlike the books from the liberal hate-mongers, this book is a lucid and compelling read. It exposes Moore the liar, hypocrite and manipulator, in irrefutable clarity. Moore is not a kind man, not a bright man, and not an honest man. Until the movie &quot;Michael Moore Hates Ameirca&quot; debuts this summer, this will fit the bill for uncovering the REAL Michael Moore, whom the truth surely wouldn't recognize if they were to meet.	2004-07-07
US	40359330	R25KXLF78S8ZZK	0812082362	110076237	Contatti: 1st Course in Italian (English and Italian Edition)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Solid, useful package	I used this course after Barron's &quot;Italian the fast and fun Way&quot; and &quot;Teach Yourself Italian&quot; as a kind of review before tackling Barron's &quot;Mastering Italian.&quot; I think it served the bill. My advice is try a simpler course first (such as Barron's &quot;fast, fun way&quot; or &quot;teach yourself beginner's Italian&quot;) and you will get more out of this course without worrying about some of the grammar shortcomings. I agree with the &quot;4 star&quot; reviewer who likens this to a college type language course. The book is full of color pictures and illustrations, and helpful culture notes. It really is a departure from the many 'teach yourself' type books and other learn by yourself courses that lack colorful diversions. Overall the course is quite helpful, especially since it was not new to me. The dialogs are easy to follow and the book provides a lot of vocabulary and puts in you typical traveller-type situations. Again, grammar explanations were rare, you kind of have to pick it up on your own, but this won't be as critical if used as a supplement. Nothing extraordinary here, but a solid book that will greatly improve your speaking and listening skills if used at least 1/2 hour 5 times a week.	2004-06-30
US	40359330	R2L8HQQHL7BX0P	0785261486	222922319	Brainwashed: How Universities Indoctrinate America's Youth	Books	5	236	305	N	N	Mr. Nail, meet Mr. Hammer	Some of the reviews here are absolutely ridiculous, clearly the liberals who trash this book have never read it. To compare an \\"anarchist\\" who is marginalized on a college campus to disenfranchised conservative activists is a bad joke. News flash: conservatism is a mainstream political ideology embraced by tens of millions, as currently demonstrated by a Republican Congress and President. If the point of going to college is to become educated then surely in the great buffet of ideas available on campus there should be a place at the table for conservatism. There is an atmosphere of hostility toward campus conseratives, or any unwilling recruit to radical dictums, that quickly brands them as racist, homophobic, or whatever mainstream smear will stick. Notice you can be as socialist as hell in college, and side with Castro or Marx - despite the freedoms these men crushed and the misery they created - and never be labeled a damn thing. No, on college campuses, any opinion nestled between Howard Dean and Mao is commendable, and shows how enlightened you are. This is not higher education, and Mr. Shaprio - without aligning himself with ANY point of view - calls a spade a spade with the hope of encouraging more academic freedom. I read many of the stories and anecdotes in this book, and though I finished college over 10 years ago, my experiences were quite similar. That speech codes and liberal/socialist orthodoxies prevail in today's \\"universities\\" of higher learning is a poorly-kept secret. Liberal administrators and tenured professors put associate professors through the ringer to publish in liberal/socialist academic journals in order to win tenure, where these sheltered and insecure leaches on our economy then ladel out their personal opinions and philosophies to a young, uneducated and captive audience. This atmosphere is absolutely suffocating to alternative points of view, especially points of view that veer right of center. My department Dean - whose classes I actually enjoyed, would assume I was liberal and spend long minutes offering leftist viewpoints during office visits. When I good-naturedly informed him I was conservative, he grew visibly uncomfortable and eyed me like I had dynamite strapped to my chest. An English professor once spent 2 classroom lectures lauding the liberalism (or non-materialism) of Thoreau while castigating Ben Franklin because he believed earning money was a virtue. I used to wonder how it would affect HIS lifestyle if most of the parents of the kids to whom he was lecturing adopted Thoreau's lifestyle, and opted out of spending $25K a year for the privilege of attending his lecture. As with many leftist professors, disagreement with him was scorned and agreement with his thesis was praised. So it went at my college whenever politics arose in the classroom. Never did I actually meet an overtly conservative professor in 4 years, I don't recall a professor actually encouraging open debate and discussion. In one year we had visits to campus from both Mario Cuomo and Ronald Reagan. Super Mario's speech was respected and he was unmolested by protests. The liberals, on the other hand, kicked and screamed at Reagan's appearance, first hoping to cancel the speech, then took to blocking the entrance. So much for promoting free speech and the open exchange of ideas. Mr. Shapiro is dang fine writer with a bright future. This book is a funny, readable and meaty text that continues in the fine tradition of academic indictments begun by such books as Alan Bloom's \\"Closing of the American Mind\\" and Dinesh D'Souza's \\"Illiberal Education.\\" To the liberals who will continue to leave 1 star reviews without reading this book, please understand conservatives go heavy into debt to finance their college education, and just want to have their opinions expressed freely and openly on campus without being smeared and attacked, and without fear of grade degradation by college professors who think Johny Kerry is a right-winger. It is great news for all that Mr. Shapiro's book is a best-seller. It is required reading for matriculating college students and all involved in political debate on campus. Perhaps with a little luck, conservatives will have the same freedom to express their opinions as enjoyed by your average anti-American anarchist.	2004-06-12
US	40359330	R2XNSVY7AXO3GX	0735525501	930160754	Secured Transactions, Examples & Explanations Series, Second Edition	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Ex &amp; Ex is EXCELLENT	Unlike the other reviewer, I will review THIS book, and not criminal procedure... Early into commercial law I gave up on my befuddling casebook and esoteric class lectures. I committed myself to thoroughly covering 10 pages of this book a day, and completed the book in a month and a half. I knew the material cold and got an &quot;A&quot; - it was my last law school exam and thanks to this book I went out on top! Seriously, this book is a winner and U.C.C. classes can be very tedious, especially when you take it as a 3L and are struggling to maintain your focus with graduation so close. I also used the Gilbert's Sec. Trans. outline, which was very slender and right to the point at a little over 100 pages. Of course 100 pages of U.C.C. is like 300 pages of torts or property, but that is beside the point. I usually avoided Gilbert's in favor of Emanuel's, but on this subject AND Negotiable Instruments, I found Gilbert's MUCH better. My recommendation is to get the Gilbert's for U.C.C. and the Examples &amp; Explanations, and work through a little every day. It is the best one-two punch aids out there for law students in my opinion, unfortunately Emanuel's dropped the ball with their dated Sec. Trans. outline and confusing Professor Series on Negotiable Instruments. If you have a commute and $40 to spare on tapes, then get the Gilbert's tapes as well from Spak, but that is icing on the cake - everything he covers is covered much more in-depth in the books.	2004-06-12
US	40359330	R33N9PHIAE1TGR	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Classic	There is very little I can offer to the many heartfelt reviews of this classic, moving book. One thing I can suggest is that if you have children, encourage them to read it by their early teens. While they may not know it at the time, the experience of this novel will be a watermark in their adolescence that will stay with them through life. This book is magic, and subtle enough in its power to reach into our lives many years past the reading.	2004-06-06
US	40359330	R5HZT5KB5SQ5T	1583225366	967029653	Media Control, Second Edition: The Spectacular Achievements of Propaganda (Open Media Series)	Books	1	22	118	N	N	Trite, Tiresome Treacle	This review could easily apply to any of Chumpsky's books on the globo-political hegemonic terror manifested by the existence of the United States, but this one offers less pain than typical due to its comparative brevity and dearth of tautological scribbling, so here we are. The irony of Chump's admirable intellect focused so intently on the evils of America is that he personifies the anti-intellectual underpinnings of so many modern day slaughter-states. Witness Pol Pot, who had everyone in Cambodia with eyeglasses offed because of the threat they posed, or the muderous revolutions in China, Russia and Nazi Germany which lined people up against a wall, smarties first. Freedom is always a threat to those so much smarter than we wee people, because who will listen to brilliant men like Chumpsky when there is Fox news on 24 hours a day? The very fact that two democracies have not been to war against each other is underscored by the dynamic that popularly elected governments can never wage war without the informed will of the people. So Chumpsky undermines this safety-valve on rampant militarism by saying that people are stupid and uniformed, and thereby willing to wage the war in the interest of their superiors, e.g. elected officials. Such bunk. The U.S. is far from perfect, it is not hard to document the stomach turning atrocities of any nation, but to maintain that on the big scoreboard of warmongering the U.S. is not overwhelmingly on the side of preserving peace, freedom and inidividual dignity is the height of stupidity. Roughly 50 years ago Europe embroiled the world in the 2nd monsterously pointless war in 30 years, precisely because there was no dominant nation with large enough interests to maintain the peace. That conflict is traceable today to the festering in the Middle East, yet somehow America is to blame. To say that the U.S. should not assert its might in the world is to say the policy should not assert a presence on the streets. To lay blame for this on the media is to hold the belief that everyone is a total moron and subsequently unworthy of the freedom to make decisions and form beliefs by all available information. Some of the reviews here echo this scary sentiment, mindlessly kissing King Chump's ring as they too conclude it is the U.S. that is to blame for the world's problems afterall.	2004-05-29
US	40359330	R31A6LTD6NHA59	0962734802	544341645	And That's the Way It Isn't: A Reference Guide to Media Bias	Books	5	9	13	N	N	The Bible of Media Bias	I had to laugh at the one star review below, it is obvious this person didn't even read the book. The very point made in the book is that there needs to be balance in media viewpoints, NOT that journalists must not show any bias. In fact the book is quite explicit that it is impossible for human beings - filled as we are with personal biases - to write and report in an unbiased manner. The point of this book is that of those who shape and inform opinion in this country, the vast majority of them, nearly 90%, vote Democrat and support liberal, statist viewpoints. Journalists openly praise liberals like Jesse Jackson and denounce Republicans with predictable frequency. This is not even debateable, just watch Bryant Gumble for a year on the Today Show and just take a wild guess what his views are. Amazingly, in an interview with an activist trying to create awareness about flammable pajamas, Gumble laid the blame at the feet at Ronald Reagan! Now THAT is fair reporting! The book is loaded with such examples and anlysis, and is a great intro into the world of media studies from a political point of view, even though it was written 10 years ago before the internet and Fox News changed the landscape. Books such as Bernard Goldberg's are certainly more contemporary and a fine primer on turn-of-the-milennium bias. Just bear in mind that people will always have bias, and most journalists go into the profession to &quot;change the world&quot; - not be automatic, clinical relayers of information. That's ok, what this book argues for is that &quot;diversity&quot; (Aaaaach, a liberal word!) reach into newsrooms, and embrace people with viewpoints other than those at home in Jane Fonda's kitchen. How odd that network reporters can do stories about how much Castro has done for his people, then report on how terrible Ronald Reagan is. When viewpoints like this prevail in the major broadcast network newsrooms it is a wake-up call for things to change. Thankfully, in the 10+ years since this book was originally published, much has.	2004-04-26
US	40359330	R2BI0Q8E822PF7	0962734837	462349754	Pattern of Deception: The Media's Role in the Clinton Presidency	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Steal This Democrat Playbook!	Highly recommended and thorough job by Mr. Graham and company. The facts and examples are numerous and thoroughly persuasive, though I was already one of the converted upon reading this book. It is quite readable and the arguments are well-strung together, making for an easy read. I suspect that one looking on this page already has a strong opinion of Clinton and/or the media in this country, so there isn't really a need to try to argue one side or the other. Just note how CBS gave the biggest audience to Bill &amp; Hillary after the '92 Superbowl to respond to the Gennifer Flowers controversy that threatened to sink him. We now know it was an orchestrated event by friends of Bill to rescue him. Can you imagine if Steve Kroft had followed-up Clinton's &quot;I acknowledge I have caused pain&quot; comment with, &quot;so, it's all out of your system? If we elect you President American can count on a focused, determined leader whose illicit daliances are behind him?&quot; I'd pay a MILLION DOLLARS to see Clinton's reaction to THAT question! Notice Clinton never even apologized, just &quot;acknowledged&quot; that he caused &quot;pain.&quot; Don't people who cause pain apologize? Not if you're Bill, and not if you're the media powers that propped him up for 8 long, terribly painful years.	2004-04-26
US	40359330	RTK1TQXTR2K8K	0312324723	706279848	Bush Country: How Dubya Became a Great President While Driving Liberals Insane	Books	5	17	32	N	N	Hell of a Ride	Before I get to the meat of the matter, I'd like to respond to a curious part of the title that has been questioned by liberal reviewers. How, they ask, can Mr. Bush claim to be a uniter yet delight in &quot;driving liberals insane.&quot; A good question on the surface, but let's be honest. Mr. Bush reached out to liberals and dems numerous times in his administration, including allowing Ted Kennedy wide latitude in writing the eduction bill, assisting cash-hungry members of Congress from both parties to feed at the trough, and liberalizing immigration laws and government entitlements. Until 911 the take on W was that he was &quot;dumb&quot; and didn't win the election. Yet his attempts to win love from across the aisle proved as fruitless as his father's when he forgot to read is own lips and raised taxes. Democrats are going &quot;insane&quot; as Mr. Podhoretz suggests (and reviewers should know if they had READ the book instead of just leaving 1 star reviews) because of Mr. Bush's success in restarting the economy and fighting terrorism. No matter what the NY Times or Tom Daschle say, he is doing both. Daschle, of course, is the man who claimed Bush didn't share the Aug. 2001 memo on Bin Laden's intentions to attack America with Congress, when it is public record that he did (Bob Graham of FL admitted as much). Howard Dean and Wes Clark have made ample public statements to secure their status as &quot;insane&quot; -- including whispering conspiracies that Bush knew about 911 before it happened. I guess though that giving Mr. Bush credit for driving libs insane is a little presumptuous; to paraphrase Svetlana from the Sopranos, &quot;they drive themselves.&quot;<br />About the book: Not since JP's &quot;Hell of a Ride&quot; have I enjoyed his writing so much. As political propaganda goes, its subject matter suggests a predictable direction in the salvo between GWB's defenders and detractors. Face it, we haven't heard anything new in a long while. Despite this, JPdefends Bush in more than adequate fashion, while cheerfully destroying the arguments of his detractors. Bush-hating is its own industry, just look at the reviews of this book alone. Many 1 star reviews just say, &quot;I hate bush&quot; or &quot;he has destroyed this country&quot; - showing that if these are the people we are debating the argument is easy to win indeed. But elections aren't about debates, they are about numbers of voteres. We shall all see in November, if the economy is cooking still and Iraq is moving toward its eventual place as a stable U.S. ally in the Middle East, then all the Ed Asners in the world can't stop Bush's reelection, and isn't that what all the fuss is about? Propaganda has to have people to propagandize, and only a slender portion of the electorate hasn't made up its mind yet about Mr. Bush. This will all be clear soon enough, in the meanwhile, whether his legacy is 4 or 8 years, Mr. Podhoretz demonstrates himself an exceptionally able writer from whom I eagerly look forward to reading about Mr. Bush's legacy.	2004-04-12
US	40359330	R3VWZP1ACQXCQF	0465036279	200229621	Everything You Think You Know About Politics...and Why You're Wrong	Books	1	15	57	N	N	Academically Challenged	Given the book is from Kathleen Jamieson I was a tad dubious the book would offer objective information. I've seen her commentary on PBS multipe times and she is a reliable spokesman for the Democrats. I thought perhaps the written word may provide her more latitude to provide alternate viewpoints, or at least express a more thorough examination of political issues than is possible in her tv clips. I could not have been more mistaken. The reviews on this page accurately describe most essays as dull, which they are. Anyone who is even remotely in touch with news sources outside of the Today Show is aware of the &quot;sound bite&quot; culture we live in, and the consistent disparity between public pronouncements of our elected officials and the telling details. Ho hum - we really don't need a dozen essays to tell us this. More telling would be a thorough examination of WHY this phenomenon persists, which requires more analysis of the news media which drive our political culture. Face it, most of what politicians do is performed with one finger in the wind, and that wind is largely blown from the network news studios. If they approve, then there is no problem; if they criticize and question, then our friend the politician has a problem. Preening on tv is the coin of the real for most politicians today, not the art of statecraft. The homogenous make-up of the news opinion leaders is proven left-leaning. Exhibit &quot;A&quot; is Walter Cronkite, once the most &quot;trusted man in America&quot; and now an outspoken liberal, who is also known for once saying in order to be a good journalist one HAD to be liberal. Have a look at the cumulative public and private pronouncements of Tom Brokaw, Jane Pauley (married to Gary Trudeau), Dan Rather, Judy Woodruff (married to the liberal Al Hunt), Peter Jennings, Barbara Walters, Diane Sawyer, Connie Chung, etc., etc., etc. They are all Democrat-friendly and critical of Republicans. When was the last time  you heard ANY network anchor express admiration for Ronald Reagan? Of course you have not, because it hasn't happened. This is why the book is a yawner, it is mostly liberal academics decrying the state of political discourse in this nation, but they can't point the finger at the culprits of chronic misinformation because they are, in fact, their liberal brethren in the main-stream news media. Why, I may ask, is the nation over 2 years removed from economic recession, yet nearly 50% of the country still believes we are in recession? Putting aside your feelings on the economy, the empirical fact is we are NOT in recession. This is an indictment of the news media, that the people are so terribly misinformed about something so important as the economic state of their country. They should be ashamed at their terrible reporting, but dont' bet a lobster on it. They are certainly proud, as they have somehow saddled a Republican president with the image of a bad economy in an election year. Clinton's economic numbers were not much better than Bush's, yet the media consistently trumpeted his handling of the economy (which was in strong growth when he came into office, and was in negative growth when he left). For a truly informative book on understanding the underpinnings of American political discourse, ignore this book and pick up &quot;Amusing Ourselves to Death&quot; by Neil Postman. It is neither liberal nor conservative, but the watershed work on how our basic cultural values limit what we are capable (collectively, not individually) of understanding about politics and the nation in general. Good times come and go, but stupid is forever. The title of Ms. Jamieon's book is as misleading as its contents, and the perfect embodiment of the empty-headed academic pseudo-insights we'd all benefit by avoiding.	2004-04-11
US	40359330	R2K79N59RH77TB	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	1	14	54	N	N	The Worst Economics Book Since the Depression	One has to wonder where Democrats like Begala get their moxy. When they ran against Bush I it was the \\"worst economy since the Great Depression\\" and now running against Bush II it is \\"the worst record on jobs since the Great Depression.\\" Boy I bet Herbert Hoover can't wait until they don't have HIM to kick around any more. I skimmed this little farce in the bookstore, and while I read at least one sentence from every paragraph in the book, I can't even claim to have found any NEW distortions from the liberals. Guess they are as adamant about recycling as they claim. <br />Let's start with a few immutable facts before wiping the gum off our shoe with this book and tossing it in its proper place. Bill Clinton inherited an economy growing at a roaring pace of over 4% when he entered office, and he left it with negative growth. The most recent recession started either in Clinton's last quarter in office, or the one right after. My friends, this is etched in stone. No Democrat, no matter how many talking points faxed directly to the Washington Post and NY Times editorial board, can make this untidy point go away. <br />More facts - Clinton benefitted from a peace dividend from a Cold War we were no longer fighting, and from the reduced deficit spending of the S&L bailout which ended in the early 90s. He had his eye on spending this windfall and then some, but a Republican Congress put up an electric fence. In the end it didn't matter, as an economic boom driven by the internet industry filled government coffers so EVERYONE (republican and democrat alike) could overspend, and still have enough left over. Was this the doing of a brilliant economic vision of Billy from Arkansas or dumb luck? The cornerstone of his economic agenda was a massive tax & spending hike he himslf referred to as a \\"turkey\\" in an honest moment. If turkeys can't fly, they certainly can't instigate massive growth in a private sector economy.<br />Returning to today, the paltry economic growth inherited by Bush II is showing historic signs of strength, this despite the fact our economic activity was devastated by an attack on our shores and a war overseas. That is hardly a record to condemn our President and his economic policies. More Americans are working now than at any other time in history, and unemployment is at the statistical equivalent of 1996, when Bill Clinton was re-elected in large part due to the economy's performance. Interest rates and inflation are exceptionally low, and the markets have rebounded. Finally, this recovery is nascent; more is yet to come. I suppose this will be most germane in November when voters decide, but as a conservative I am not the least worried about the performance of the economy under Mr. Bush, and nothing in this book approaches a persuasive argument otherwise. <br />Let's look at some of the specific accusations of Begala's book: Deficits are up, (always a concern), but this is unrelated to the economy; interest rates have yet to budge, nor has inflation ticked up. The effect on actual people is nugatory. What interests me is how Democrats that NEVER cared about deficits are suddenly such guardians of the public purse, when it took a GOP Congress to balance the budget in the 90s. If one cares to look at the record, Robert Reich, among just one of Clinton's economic gurus, publicly stated many times that balancing budgets was not a goal of the administration, but investing in America's infrastructure was. This is public record folks. <br />Which brings us to his point that Bush is not investing in America. Now that Bush and the Congress are happily spending on infrastructure like highways, education and assorted other projects (most of which I can assure you is excessive) Democrats decry deficits. Well welcome to the party. All of the things Begala says Bush is neglecting, like job training and education have seen 30% increase in actual dollars in Bush's tenure.<br />Begala of course makes the obligatory Democrat argument that Bush offered a huge giveaway to the rich in the form of taxcuts, not mentioning that now as opposed to Clinton's last year, the top 1%, the top 10% and the top 50% of taxpayers are paying more of the tax burden then under Clinton. The top 1% now pay 35% of all taxes in this country, a fact that Al Sharpton, a man who thinks enough of himself to seek the job of President, didn't himself know. I suspect many other liberals don't know it either, as it certainly isn't in Begala's book. Either way, the terrible tax cuts have spurred economic growth which will create an overall increase in revenue to the government. Since Mr. Begala is so fond of spening money, you would think having more money to spend would be a good thing. It is, but crediting a Republican for anythingis a bad thing, so let's call him stupid and make a few coins off a book.<br />I am sure Paul Begala will happily trumpet the candidacy of Mr. Kerry, who by his own public declarations is offering hundreds of billions of dollars more in spending proposals than Bush. To Mr. Begala and his kind, deficits won't be important, but \\"investing in Americans\\" with such proposals will be. As the economy slows under the weight of Mr. Kerry's tax & spend proposals, all those goverment pork projects will be good for people. It will be the most active \\"make-work\\" Administration since the Great Depression. Rest in peace, Mr. Hoover.	2004-04-11
US	40359330	R6OLJTJH8GZAR	1400020271	515269136	Russian Complete Course: Basic-Intermediate, Compact Disc Edition (LL(R) Complete Basic Courses)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Other Review GROSSLY in ERROR - Fine Set!	The first review of this product is incorrectly intended for the &quot;Ultimate&quot; series by Living Language, which has 4 cassettes (or CDs) to accompany the text, and 4 to &quot;learn on the go.&quot; The product on this page is the very basic, intro course into Russian and it is quite good. 40 simple, digestable lessons to get you up and running, and to move on to intermediate or other beginner books to reinforce what you learn. Here you get a full review of the Russian alphabet, lots of vocabulary, sentence structure, and listening practice with the tapes. For under $20.00, I found this to be a great deal, and the next Living Language series a good next step. For beginner's, Barron's &quot;Listen and Learn the Fun Way&quot; is comparable, though more expensive with 4 cassettes and lots of pictures. The review also laments that lack of good Russian tapes aside from Penton to learn in the car, has he/she heard of Pimsleur or Instant Immersion? The former is good enough to take a trip to Russia, the latter MUCH better than Penton, the phrases are grouped in more sensible style. That having been said, I give it 5 stars for the value and general solid footing it offers for a beginner learning the language. After this I recommend the Ultimate Beginner-Intermediate, then the Advanced, while simultaneously doing the full Pimsleur 48 CDs (available at most libraries). If you make it this far, go for the full deal at audio-forum, and at this point YOU'LL be teaching Russian!	2004-03-08
US	40359330	RBDM1Y9ULNU84	065802163X	589633180	Teach Yourself Beginner's Latin (With Audio)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	The Best Language Book EVER!	I must rave about this book. It does what many haughty titles in this category fail to do, and that is teach Latin clearly and effectively. So deftly does this book lubricate the brain to gently accept this grand language, that I hardly noticed how much it assisted me in learning OTHER languages completely unrelated to Latin. By describing grammar in terms of anticipation - i.e., that our brains anticipate language and whether what we hear makes sense is directly related to our process of anticipation - Sharpley breaks the mold for language teachers. How else to help an english speaker understand the many noun/verb/adjective tense agreements that are so common to world languages, but non-existent in english to any great extent. His pithy insight not only had me understanding Latin from the first pages, but also what to expect in my journey to learn Latin. There are no tricks, and there are no easy answers. However as teachers go, I agree with the vast majority or reviewers here who appreciate the sheer talent of the author to bring Latin to life, one bite at a time. I never felt like this language was difficult or complex, but that is was logical and quite understandable. You cannot go wrong with this book, and once the basics are under your belt (and this book offers more than basics with a quite extensive explanation of grammar and a hefty vocabulary) other books such as Wheelock's will be much easier to conquer.	2004-03-05
US	40359330	R3HE0B4Q9LRBZM	0781802997	710381188	Beginner's Polish (Beginner's Guides)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good supplement	The other review has some valid observations, but this set does come with audio tapes to assist with pronounciation, which is important in learning a consonant-dense language such as Polish. A book alone can't help you speak, there is just nothing to replace the human ear. If you can get the tapes, do it. If not, get the tapes for another course as the &quot;Colloquial&quot; or &quot;Teach Yourself&quot; series offer. Otherwise this is a solid if unspectacular book. You get a solid footing with most important vocabulary, and key points of grammer and construction. As with any language there are subtleties to colloquial use and slang that take time to master. The other reviewer takes issue with the translation of &quot;tak&quot; as an english &quot;yes&quot; - but context is important. Someone in english could say &quot;yes&quot; and it contextually mean &quot;correct&quot; - or if that person were excited could mean &quot;alright!&quot; - again all this is contextual, but the basic meaning is the same. This book is structured much like a traveller's phrase book, but with more depth. It's a good supplement to a live course or self-study. Honestly, to study a foreign language you should surround yourself with several texts and dictionaries and not rely on just one to get you to your destination, this is just my opinion however. I'd get this book, the Pimsleur tapes and the Teach Yourself series. When you're ready to move on, buy the Schenker book and also give the Colloquial series a look. If you can find audio-forum, do it, as there are 8 tapes and a thorough text. The only hindrance is the thick, uptight accent of the British speakers. The Polish is fine, however. In sum, get this book with audio and you'll have a fine starting point. Otherwise, start with Pimsleur and Teach Yourself and later just get this book as a grammar reference.	2003-12-29
US	40359330	R65WKQTHA7DOW	0884327388	541909966	Learning Practical Tibetan (Book/Cassette Course)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Best Tibetan Book Out There	Unless you get the audio forum set that has over 2 dozen tapes &amp; several books, this book is the best thing to get you up to speed with Tibetan pronunciation and vocab. Very useful and user friendly, with lots of vocab and clear instruction, as the other reviewers have mentioned. With casual effort, you can make good use of the book, however the more time you put in with it, the more you will be rewarded in learning Tibetan.	2003-03-27
