US	40354595	R138OBCRXV99RB	1596321318	771642358	Rebel Angels 1: Born of the Shadows	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Absolutely terrific tale of darkness and the light	I first read this in ebook form (from [...]) last year and I simply adored it.  So glad to see her stuff coming to Amazon.  This is the first book in the Rebel Angels Series (2nd is ECHOES AND EMBERS and the third just came out in ebook form titled SPLENDOR AND DARKNESS).      Gideon is an almost-fallen angel who was good friends with Lucifer before The Fall.  He and several other angels have \\"issues\\" with God and his right-hand man Michael (as in the archangel).  Gideon feels that God has shown preferential treatment to his new \\"pets\\" the humans.  For his bloodlust he has been \\"punished\\" by God and is cursed to walk the earth in the darkness as a vampire.  Gideon has decided to pay a visit to his estranged brother Gabriel in a monastery in (12th century) Palestine.  There he meets the lovely Naomi who was orphaned as a child and raised by Gabriel in the monastery.  Oh, won't she make a nice tool of revenge against Gabriel . . .    Naomi adores Brother Gabriel as he is the only family she has ever known.  She secretly illuminates manuscripts and is hard at work on one when a very handsome man appears.  She feels immediately attracted and drawn to him, yet she is also a little afraid of him.  She also sees the tension between Gabriel and Gideon and suspects that Gideon has come with a dark purpose.  She is very afraid that this dark purpose may just include her . . .    Of course it does!  Though Gideon still retains some measure of his goodness, he also carries a heavy dose of darkness.  He begins with the intention of playing with and seducing Naomi knowing how it will affect Gabriel.  But as he gets to know her Naomi touches the goodness and light in him and it brings him up short.  Suddenly he finds himself wanting, needing to protect her from, not only himself, but forces far darker than he.  For the time has come for Gideon to choose between the darkness and the light; between good and evil.  Will he be redeemed or will he Fall?    Oh, this is a really great book and I've read it about three times since I bought it last year.  Gideon is a deeply compelling character struggling with his own inner demons (not to mention real ones!).  Naomi is naive yet spirited and independent.  She's the perfect balm for what ails Gideon.  With it's lush, dark atmosphere and biblical references it's an original and unusual read.  It's also very steamy, sensual and ultimately romantic.  Highly recommended!	2005-09-24
US	40354595	RDYQXGI44PF2C	0743496108	357668604	One Little Sin	Books	5	31	33	N	N	I just love Liz's books!  Great start to a new trilogy	I am a huge fan of Liz Carlyle's books and this latest is no exception.  It's the first in a trilogy of stories about three friends - two rakes (Alasdair MacLachlan & Quin Hewett first seen in THE DEVIL TO PAY) and one semi-recluse Alasdair's brother Merrick.  Our story opens with the three in the tent of a gypsy fortune teller who makes dire predictions for all three about \\"making things right\\" and \\"redeeming past misdeeds\\".  Though momentarily uneasy, our three friends quickly shake off their unease and make for home.   <br /> <br />Sir Alasdair MacLachlan, at thirty-six is a known scoundrel who spends most of his time drinking, skirt-chasing and gaming.  He's got a very good head for numbers and so usually wins big at cards.  He's perfectly happy with his live-in-the-moment lifestyle - what else could a fellow want?  And that gypsy and her \\"atoning for sins\\" rot.  Which sin - there are so many to choose from?  After passing out on the sofa after returning home he is awakened by banging on his door.  Good Lord, it's midnight in the middle of a raging thunderstorm, who could it possibly be?  My, my has one of his sins come home to roost? <br /> <br />The person at his door turns out to be Miss Esmee Hamilton, newly arrived from Scotland.  She looks like a drowned wren, very young and vulnerable.  But when she tells him that the little bundle in her basket is his daughter and that she is leaving the child with him to be raised in his home Alasdair is shocked and in denial.  His little wren turns out to have a fiery side as she tells him in very tart language that little Sorcha is the product of a tryst with her mother two years past.  When her mother died two months ago, her stepfather kicked both Esmee and Sorcha out of his home and now they have nowhere else to go.  Alasdair has no memory of her mother, only the vaguest feeling that it could really be true.  When he learns that Esmee has accepted a post as a governess and intends to leave the child in his most uncapable hands, he panics and tries to convince her to stay and act as Sorcha's governess instead.  Though she knows it is wrong and that her reputation will likely be ruined, she agrees as leaving Sorcha would break her heart.  And so, the MacLachlan household is in for some major changes. <br /> <br />Of course Alasdair and Esmee fall for one another but there are many twists and obstacles in the way.  Both are appealing characters.  Alasdair is charming and sexy with a suprisingly strong sense of responsibility.  His growing relationship, not to mention patience with \\"terrible twos\\" Sorcha is very sweet to watch.  Esmee is naive yet also smart and doesn't allow him to get away with too much.  The only issue I had with the book was that, after the first rousing chapters, the pace seemed to get a bit klunky and uneven midway through.  There are some amusing scenes, some surprising twists and the wonderful dialog that is standard in Ms Carlyle's books.  I can't wait to read Quin's and Merrick's stories!  Highly recommended.	2005-09-24
US	40354595	R2XFG9EML4ZPF7	0821778145	214599397	Seduction of Sarah (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	I really wanted to like it and did to some degree but . . .	. . . there were just too many flaws to recommend.  I love discovering new/debut authors and I was very keen to read this one but ultimately it's a disappointment.   <br /> <br />Sarah Wellsley is a widow who has accompanied her spoiled, self-centered cousin Caroline to meet Caroline's prospective husband.  Sarah's marriage was an unhappy one and she has no desire ever to marry again and give up her independence to a man.  Since arriving at Caldern several weeks past, she has enjoyed a morning swim in a secluded pond on the estate.   But one morning her solitude is interrupted by the appearance of a handsome stranger.  They share a steamy kiss, neither realizing who the other is.  When Sarah learns that the man who caught her naked and kissed her so thoroughly is, in fact, Caroline's intended, she tries to blend into the woodwork.  Unfortunately, he has other ideas and refuses to let her. <br /> <br />He is Alex Norward, Marquess of Caldern who is recently returned from abroad to take up his duties, one of which is to marry and produce an heir.  Unfortunately, it is not Caroline who warms his blood, but her unassuming cousin, Sarah.  He is very attracted to her and she to him, but she is determined to resist him.  He tries to back off and adhere to her wishes, but the more he is around her the more he wants her.  He is certainly not going to marry the self-absorbed Caroline, but how to convince Sarah to take another chance on marriage - with him?  But strange accidents begin to happen to Alex and he ultimately must face the fact that someone wants him dead - but who? <br /> <br />While I enjoyed aspects of the story and I liked Sarah and Alex, I found much of this a bit of a muddle.  Alex is inconsistent in his actions alternately vowing to leave her alone and trying to seduce her.  He initially singles her out for so much attention, in front of his entire family, guests and household, it would have surely been considered scandalous at the time.  At one point he decides that she would be a good match for one of his stepbrothers but becomes furious when they speak together.  His moods swing from brooding to mischievous and back again often.  Caroline's character was so completely without merit that it seems inconceivable that anyone would want to marry her and given his apparent dislike of his step-mother, it seems unlikely that he would have left the choice of his future wife in her hands. <br /> <br />The mystery of who was trying to kill Alex was interesting (the culprit was a surprise) but could have been better executed.  And I found there to be a few too many secondary characters - his step-siblings, his friend David, and his two (yes two!) bastard step-brothers - leaving the impression that, at least the last three were simply there to introduce future heroes for future books. <br /> <br />This author shows some promise but this attempt just fell a bit short of the mark.  The cover art was very attractive, though - except they should lose the orange lipstick!  It looks as though she has a book in the works for step-brother Nathan Carter and perhaps I'll give that a try, but first I'll wait to read reviews :)	2005-09-02
US	40354595	R1216CKD0A1VXX	042520152X	439268619	Total Rush (New York Blades)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	It was okay . . .	I'd had this book since it came out in March, but could not get up the enthusiasm to read it until now.  It's gotten mediocre reviews (except here) so I was in no hurry to read it.  But I'd hit a bit of a dry spell and so pulled it off of my TBR.  Call me a stick-in-the-mud but I just can't identify with a woman over thirty being a \\"witch\\".  A kick-*ss \\"Charmed One\\" I'm on board with!  But a fluffy witch giving tarot lessons and casting love spells?  Count me out.  It just seemed so immature and silly to me (I didn't care for it in London's MISS FORTUNE from last year either).  I really enjoyed the author's first book, BODY CHECK and I also liked FAIR PLAY to a degree, but this one just didn't do it for me.  I think the author might do better to transition to chick-lit.  Her last two stories are more about the heroine/hero's various issues and dealings with family, co-workers, etc than romance IMO. <br /> <br />Gemma Dante is an outcast in her own family because she has turned her back on her Italian Catholic roots to devote herself to alternative healing, new age philosophies and withcraft.  She goes her own way and makes no apology for her beliefs and if that means taking guff from her family, especially her nasty and dismissive mother, so be it.  Sean Kenneally is a firefighter who lives in the same building as Gemma.  Her smelly incense bugs him and so he recruits two of his fellow firefighters to show up at her place and pretend that they've gotten a call from neighbors.  Of course they are attracted and very quickly wind up in bed.  Sean just as quickly regrets it as she is so kooky and off-beat that he decides that she'll never fit in with his life and he'll never hear the end of the razzing from his co-workers.  Then he does another 360 when he decides that he is still attracted to her and admires her free-spirited ways even as he is likely to be embarassed by them.  And so they give this relationship a try but as the days pass, she has difficulty dealing with her fears for his safety while he makes a potentially life-threatening mistake on the job that he cannot seem to deal with and refuses to discuss with her.  Things finally come to a head and Sean basically ends their relationship.  <br /> <br />Gemma is heartbroken but moves on with her life.  Unfortunately, her life is about to hit an even rougher patch when her beloved Nonna is diagnosed with Alzheimer's.  She pushes herself to the limit running her new age shop and doing her shift taking care of Nonna but she finds herself depressed and exhausted.  Meanwhile Sean is trying to come to terms with his issues by seeking counciling.  Though they both still care for one another, are they just too different to ever make this thing work? <br /> <br />While I liked both Sean's and Gemma's characters they both seemed a little immature to me.  Sean is so desperate to \\"fit in\\" and be \\"normal\\" that he lets his (obnoxious IMO) fellow firefighters dictate whom he will and will not date!  And while one can admire Gemma's steadfast dedication to her beliefs, they are also often the source of her problems.  A little compromise is what's needed here but are either of them capable?  I'm not so sure that their HEA is permanent.  And I must say that the author's depiction of both large fractious Italian families and \\"firefighter culture\\" are not exactly flattering.  This is the last time that I will auto-buy one of Ms Martin's books without reading reviews first.  Lesson learned.	2005-08-12
US	40354595	R19WZZT4GEQ6KB	0758207948	526429835	The River Devil	Books	4	13	13	N	N	4 1/2 stars Great riverboat erotic romance	I first discovered Ms Whiteside with her prior book, THE IRISH DEVIL which I enjoyed to a degree.  THE RIVER DEVIL shows her growth as a writer and I enjoyed it very much.  It's better than THE IRISH DEVIL IMO. <br /> <br />The first indication that Hal Lindsay's life is about to change comes when he rescues a stray dog from being beaten by some riverbank bullies.  He intends to give the dog away, but the dog becomes so attached to him that he allows him to stay.  Hal is not a man interested in emotional attachments, canine or human - they just wind up causing pain.  Hal has had enough pain in his life, especially his difficult childhood and his relationship with his emotionally distant parents.  While attending a poker game he becomes intrigued by fellow poker player Frank Carstairs.  He looks familiar to Hal and the more he looks at Carstairs, the more he begins to suspect that he is actually a she.  Long, elegant fingers, delicate features and not even a hint of a beard.  And quite possibly this she is missing railroad heiress Rosalind Schuyler!  Hmmm he may just need to get a closer look at \\"Carstairs\\" and find out for sure. <br /> <br />Rosalind Schuyler is on the run and hiding from Nicholas Lennox who is determined to marry her for her substantial fortune.  She's seen first hand how cruel, violent and dangerous he can be and she is determined to hide from him until she comes into her fortune.  But that's not until her 25th birthday some 15 months away!  How can she keep hiding when he has Pinkerton detectives looking all over for her?  First, she's dressed as man as she used to do with her brothers and father who taught her how to move like a man, play poker and shoot (unforunately they're all dead now).  Second, she will avoid the railroads where Lennox will surely look for her.  Instead she decides to travel by riverboat eventhough she has a very real fear of water (her mother and brothers drowned in a boating accident).   Up to this point, no one has seenthrough her disguise - not until Hal Lindsay that is.  Will this golden god of a man keep her secrets? <br /> <br />Hal agrees to hide her after they spend a steamy night getting acquainted so to speak!  He hires her/Frank Carstairs on as his cub pilot and arranges for her/him to share his cabin (a cot is set up for her but quickly becomes his dog, Cicero's resting place!).  Hal's sister Viola and her husband William Donovan (from TID) have joined Hal on this trip and it is nice to catch up with them.  Unfortunately for Hal, his parents also show up unannounced.  This makes things uncomfortable for all as Hal has a strained relationship with his parents and Viola is completely estranged.  Those who read TID know that their mother Desdemona was a southern sympathizer who committed some treasonous acts of which neither Hal nor his father are aware (though Viola is).  Well, we discover that's not all she's done and this book details her many transgressions and character flaws.  We also find out that Hal was cruelly beaten by his father as a child resulting in his vow never to have children and pass that legacy along.  But most importantly, we watch as Hal and Rosalind come together, first sexually, then professionally as she begins to learn the basics of piloting a riverboat and lastly emotionally as bonds, no matter how unwanted begin to form between them.  Hal is impressed with her intelligence, her resourcefulness and her sensuality.  Rosalind is smitten almost from the start admiring Hal's inherent goodness, fairness, smarts and obvious sex appeal.  But what will happen at the end of this trip upriver?  Will they part forever?  Will Rosalind successfully elude Lennox? <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this book and I liked both Hal and Rosalind.  The plot of this book had more depth and less emphasis on sex as her last book, though don't get me wrong, there's still plenty of steamy sex scenes to satisfy.  The only things keeping this from 5 stars for me come down to personal taste.  My eyes glazed over at times as the author details the navigation and workings of riverboats.  I also found myself skimming the poker games which I found boring because I do not know how to play the game.  But both those aspects also provide an authentic period atmosphere and the author's obvious love of the riverboat period and poker really comes through.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book and look forward to Donovan friend and partner Morgan Evans' story THE SOUTHERN DEVIL due in 2006.	2005-07-27
US	40354595	R3OVQML9XHB258	0425203972	542443651	Passion	Books	4	147	157	N	N	4 1/2 stars - impressive, erotic & romantic debut!	I must admit I was a bit wary of this book.  The cover art was so \\"Cheryl Holt\\", I was worried that the book would be a series of sex scenes with little or no story.  While the sex is both frequent and explicit, it is also very erotic (though this is always a matter of taste).  This book also contains explicit language with a very liberal use of the F-word (among others) so those offended by such language should take note.  It's the story of two strangers who form an immediate, electric, sexual bond and all the complications that follow. <br /> <br />Passion Elizabeth Dare Redington (I know, her name made me cringe in the beginning) is a widow of two years.  She has come to London from her home in the country to spend time with her aunt and cousin in her first forays into Society as she comes out of mourning.  Her marriage was not a happy one as her husband did not love her (nor she him) and treated her with total indifference.  Passion has been numb for years allowing herself to be lead by duty and obligation.  But when she is pulled from the path of a falling palm tree at the Crystal Palace by a handsome stranger, Passion's numbness takes flight.  When this man looks at her, he actually sees her and he awakens in her all the need she has suppressed for years.  She is drawn to him in a way that she has never experienced before and they play a sort of cat and mouse game as he follows her from exhibit to exhibit.  They share glances, touches and conversation until they are desperate for one another and find themselves behind a screen where they give in to their mutual lust.  Though she knows that it is wrong, she agrees to see him again though they only exchange first names. <br /> <br />Mark Randolph Hawkmore, earl of Langley was supposed to be meeting the woman his mother expects him to marry at the Crystal Palace. But instead he meets the most sensual, intriguing and alluring woman he's seen in a long time and he just cannot resist having her.  Mark does not likewomen much and one could hardly blame him after meeting his loathesome mother.  She made her first born son miserable just because he was his father's son - a man she never wanted to marry in the first place.  She takes out her resentment of her husband on his son and man, is she hateful!  She adores her second son, her beloved Matthew, but she also has a secret.  One that leads to a blackmail scheme requiring Mark to marry the daughter of her former friend, now her sworn enemy.  Mark has no intention of marrying after watching the disaster of his own parents' marriage, but if he cannot find another way out, his brother and best friend Matthew will be harmed and Mark can't have that.  Besides all Mark wants is to spend as much time with Passion as he possibly can until she leaves London to return to the country. <br /> <br />Of course at first it's just sex, but the more time they spend together, the more attached they become to one another.  Unfortunately, circumstances are forcing Mark to do something he does not want to do and, unbeknownst to either one of them, they are more entangled in one another's lives than either can know.  For once they discover each other's identities heartbreak is sure to follow.  And it does.  Will Mark and Passion be forced to part forever because of two mean and cruel women?   <br /> <br />I must say that the last quarter of the book was quite emotional, poignant and romantic which I did not entirely expect.  I even shed a few tears!  I liked Passion's character all the way through and I was glad to the see the growth in Mark's character.  Though he is essentially a selfish man (except where his brother is concerned) with little regard or respect for women, his experience with Passion shows him that he is capable of much more than just sex when it comes to women.  At least with one very special woman.  This is a highly sensual read with a couple you will want to see together in the end.   <br /> <br />There will be stories for Passion's two dear sisters, Patience and Primrose as well as one for cousin Charlotte in the future.  Matthew will also feature in one as well as John Crossman who is seen in this book.  So, we've got a Matthew, Mark and John - can this mean that Prim's hero will be named Luke?  ;-)  Looking forward to reading more from Ms Valdez.	2005-07-26
US	40354595	R3502WAH7AVHQG	0778322009	505530849	Skintight (MIRA)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	May not be one of her best, but still enjoyable for me.	I must come to Ms Andersen's defense on this one!  It may not be perfect, but it's not two stars bad either!  I agree that it has some flaws but I liked this one more than her last book (HOT AND BOTHERED). <br /> <br />Jackson Gallagher McCall is professional poker player Jax Gallagher who, in a moment of weakness, made a rookie mistake.  He threw a 1927 World Series baseball into the pot in a game with a slippery Russian - and lost.  Only problem is that the ball technically does not belong to him but to his estranged father who recently died.  So Jax finds himself in Las Vegas scoping out his father's widow with plans to get the baseball from her.  She's a gorgeous red-haired showgirl and Jax just knows that she's a manipulative gold-digger who married his old man for his money.  Well, at least this way he can romance her, steal the baseball and feel no guilt at all.  What's that saying about \\"best laid plans\\"?  Because Treena McCall turns out to be nothing like he thought. <br /> <br />Treena McCall is a dancer/showgirl in a review for a Vegas hotel.  She's thirty-five - old for a dancer - and she's very worried she won't pass the auditions in order to stay in the show another year.  She'd rather be teaching dance in her own studio, but that dream, along with her life-savings is now gone.  Caring for Big Jim in his last years drained both his and her finances and now she really needs her job.  She still has that baseball and she knows it's worth a lot of money.  But she can't bring herself to sell it as Big Jim always intended it to go to his worthless (in Treena's opinion) son Jackson who didn't even bother to attend his father's funeral.  If she ever meets up with him, he's going to get a real piece of her mind! <br /> <br />Of course they do meet just as Jax plans, but Treena does not know that Jax Gallagher is Jackson McCall.  All she knows is that a really cute, sexy guy has just asked her out.  And so Jax's pursuit begins and as he spends more and more timewith Treena, he has to face the fact that she's not the woman he thought.  She's sweet, funny, kind and sexy as hell.  She also tells him things about his father that he'd rather not hear or that he refuses to believe.  So now what does he do?  Can he really steal the baseball from her now?  Epecially since it looks like she needs it almost as much as he.  But if he doesn't he's going to have real trouble with a certain Russian and his goons.  And he knows that Treena will hate him when she finds out who he is.  Oh man is he screwed! <br /> <br />No, this isn't a great book.  I think the problem is that the author made Treena and Jax both too nice and too right for one another too soon so that, by the middle of the book it kind of runs out of steam for a while.  But since she couldn't end the book there, she trots out a secondary romance between two older, parental figures who live in Treena's condo complex.  It was okay, but I wasn't really all that interested in it.  She also seemed to be setting up (possibly) her next book about Treena's best friend and fellow dancer Carly which also just seemed to be filler. <br /> <br />But even with flaws I liked it.  It has some really nice dialog, some snappy banter between Jax and Treena and their romance is really fun and very sweet.  I liked these two people and wanted to see them together.  Sometimes I'm more willing to overlook things than others and this is one of those times.	2005-07-03
US	40354595	R24OKTQNRGVK1G	0312998538	678007905	The Companion (The Companion Series)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Compelling Vampire tale	This is my first book by Susan Squires and I enjoyed it very much.  But I have to say that, though it is catagorized as a \\"romance\\", I think the little red sticker on the cover of my copy is more accurate and it reads \\"A Regency Vampire Novel\\".  Yes there is a romance in the book but this is first and foremost a vampire novel, so those looking primarily for romance may be disappointed. <br /> <br />Ian Rufford was traveling to North Africa to take up his new diplomatic post when the ship he was traveling on was attacked by pirates.  He was sold into slavery and has spent the last two years in a living hell.  He escaped his captors and has determined never again to be enslaved that way and to return to England.  But something happened to Ian in the desert that he does not fully understand.  His eyes and skin are extremely sensitive to sunlight and he, most shamefully, craves human blood.  He hopes an English doctor will be able to cure him and help him return to a normal life.  While sailing home he encounters a very unconventional young woman whose curiosity and intelligence attracts him.  But he cannot let her close to him for fear that she will discover his true nature - and be sickened by it. <br /> <br />Elizabeth Rochewell is, unfortunately, returning to England upon the death of her father.  She dreads returning as she has never fit in there.  She inherited her long dead Egyptian mother's coloring and, after ten years spent with her father on archeological expeditions, she's nowhere near refined.  All she wants is to remain in her beloved Africa to continue her father's work - epecially his search for the lost city of Kivala.  On the journey home she meets Ian a gentleman who seems to be full of pain and secrets.  She is determined to understand her \\"mystery\\" and engages him in conversation and nightly games of chess.  As their acquaintance deepens she discovers his secret.  That he is a vampire and, most intriguingly that he knows something of Kivala that herefuses to share with her.  What happened to him in the desert to leave such deep scars - both physical and emotional? <br /> <br />What happened to Ian is told through flashback and is not for the faint of heart.  He was used most cruelly by a very strong female vampire named Asharti.  Ian is ashamed of what she did to him, what she made him do and, perhaps most of all, ashamed of his lingering fear of her.  His emotional turmoil is strong and deeply touching.  Beth shocks him with her acceptance of what he is and her longing to help him but he keeps her at arm's length, reluctant to taint her with his ugliness.  But when Asharti begins to cause both vampires and humans real concern with her violent actions, Ian must enlist Beth's help to try and put this evil to rest for good.  You'll hope that they succeed! <br /> <br />This is most definitely a dark read with passages that some may find disturbing - again I say, not for the faint of heart.  If you cannot bear to have the hero having (rather graphic) sex with someone other than the heroine, even in flashbacks, this is likely not for you.  This is also a quite violent book as well.  Her spin on the vampire legend is also quite fascinating in more than one aspect.  I found the pace a little on the slow side, especially as the flashback passages grew longer.  And as previously stated, while there is definitely affection, friendship and fascination for one another, the romance was quite understated.  This book is primarily Ian's story with Beth a bit more of a supporting player in my view.  Still, all in all, this is a very good read if you like vampire tales.  And it looks as though we may not have seen the last of Asharti as there will be a follow-up book about fellow vampire Beatrix Lisse, The Hunger, coming in October 2005.	2005-06-29
US	40354595	R1BA4S9BSM0LKV	0778321711	589367214	Black Ice	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Not always realistic, but a wild, enjoyable ride!	This is my first book by Anne Stuart and I keep wondering what took me so long to discover her!  I'm a sucker for bad boys and it seems Ms Stuart is the queen of bad boy anti-heroes.  Yes, there is much here that seems unrealistic but if you're willing to suspend belief on some things, there is also a really enjoyable story here. <br /> <br />Chloe is a young, fairly naive translator living in Paris to escape her wealthy family and their expectations back home in North Carolina.  When her ditzy, gold digging roommate arranges for Chloe to take her place translating for a business conference, she finds herself in an isolated, fortified chateau wondering what the heck she's gotten herself into.  Then she meets a mysterious and very sexy man and just knows that she is in serious danger.  And she is. <br /> <br />Bastien Toussaint is a covert agent for a shadowy organization trying to infiltrate an illegal arms dealing cartel.  Supposedly he works for the good guys but lately he's been wondering about that.  Bastien is not exactly a nice guy and he does whatever it takes to complete his mission.  If that means killing someone, so be it.  If it takes sleeping with a woman to get info, no problem.  When he meets Chloe he wonders if she is truly what she seems or something more dangerous.  She's either really good at what she does or pathetically inept!  He decides to get close to her to find out and so they have an encounter that shakes them both.  He decides she truly is what she appears - an innocent young woman in the wrong place, at the wrong time.  Normally he'd leave her to her fate, but there is something about Chloe and he finds himself her self-appointed bodyguard as they go on the run from the cartel.  Now if he can just get her back to the States and out of his life they'll both be better off. <br /> <br />Okay, yes at 23 she is a bit young and yes I agree no criminal cartel would let an outsider translate for them.  Matter of fact, once she got there they seemed to have little need of her anyway, so that aspect was pretty thin and unbelievable. And she fights Bastien a bit too much given that he's trying to protect her.  Also, be aware that there is quite a bit of violence here with a pretty high body count.  But my biggest peeve is that it ended too abruptly - I really needed and wanted an epilogue!  <br /> <br />I know that I'm being generous with 5 stars but all I can say in my defense is that, when I finished it, I just wanted to read it all over again!  Looking forward to reading more from Ms Stuart!	2005-06-16
US	40354595	R1354D9SRZPWH1	0758210418	221239839	Murder In The Hamptons	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice debut from a promising new author	Maggie Harding is a rather uptight young woman who craves control and likes rules and boundaries.  She rarely does anything crazy or spontaneous but she did so in a big way five years ago.  She spent a wild weekend in a Key West hotel room with a gorgeous and very sexy man.  They did not exchange last names and she snuck out like the coward she is while he was sleeping.  Fun as it was, thank God she'll never see him again!  And she's determined to never lose control like that again.  Now she has agreed to accompany a girlfriend to a weekend houseparty in the Hamptons.  The occasion is the launch of a former teen idol's comeback after a stint in rehab.  The house is full of \\"beautiful people\\" who are really quite ugly.  Jealous co-stars, nasty producers, agents and so-called friends.  And one tall, dark and gorgeous man that is all too familiar.  Oh no!  It's him!  <br /> <br />Tyler Brody did a double-take when he saw her.  He never forgot that wonderful weekend in the Keys with that beautiful, fun-loving woman.  And now here she was being introduced to him by their hostess.  Unfortunately, she seems nothing like the woman he remembers.  She seems uptight, nervous - what happened to her?  He was extremely disappointed when he woke up alone five years ago, sorry that there was no way for him to find her.  But Tyler is a live-for-the-moment kind of guy.  He's spontaneous, free spirited and he does what he wants, when he wants.  And right now he wants to rekindle the romance with Maggie. <br /> <br />The weekend is off to a bumpy start with Tyler pursuing Maggie and Maggie trying to avoid Tyler.  Not to mention the tension of the assembled company.  So much sniping and drinking making the atmosphere extremely uncomfortable, especially for outsiders like Maggie and Tyler (who's reason for being invited I never really got).  Maggie's resolve begins to crumble fast under Tyler's dogged pursuit and her own attraction to him.  Soon they are lovers again though Maggie stillhas her concerns about the kind of man Tyler is.  But there's little time to worry about that when one of the guests is found dead on the lawn and the police place them all under house arrest until the crime is solved.  Great.  So much for avoiding him or even leaving early!  Maggie decides she needs to find the murderer soon before she loses her heart to a man who's likely to take off again as soon as the mood strikes him.  So Maggie begins doing some amateur sleuthing and, because he wants to be near her, Tyler tags along and together they set out to find out which of the guests is a murderer.   <br /> <br />I loved Tyler.  What a terrific guy!  I couldn't understand why she fought her attraction to him so hard and that's my biggest problem with the book.  The lady doth protest too much that he was somehow wrong for her.  As for the murder mystery, I found that on a certain level I didn't care who done it.  There were a few too many suspects and they were all so unlikable that I really didn't care about any of them.  And I was really bummed that she killed off a fairly nice character when there were so many hateful people who deserved it more!  The only other thing that I didn't like was the slightly chick lit feel to the book - I don't care for chick lit. <br /> <br />My issues aside, I think this is a promising debut and I would read more from this author.	2005-06-10
US	40354595	R13RLJK6LIW3LX	082177770X	515986005	Come Up And See Me Sometime	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Neither as good nor as bad as some reviews state IMO	I first discovered Ms Monroe with The Real Deal.  I really liked that book and thought I had found another author to glom.  Unfortunately the two books of hers that I've read since have left me disappointed.  Her heroes are total alphas, which I usually like but they're also, in my opinion, pretty self-involved.  It's all about them and what they want.  Oh they're handsome and sexy alright, but I'm not sure I like them very much.  Simon from TRD seems to be an aberration as I found him much more likeable and vulnerable than the ones I've read since.   <br /> <br />Alex Trahern is looking to ruin the man he holds responsible for his father's death.  He's brokering a deal for a hostile take-over of John Harrison's company knowing it will break the man.  He's done his homework and investigated every aspect of his target's life, including his daughter, Isabel.  He's got a picture of her in his file on Harrison and he's a little obssessed with it.  She's beautiful, but the daughter of his enemy.  When he learns that she has contacted his right hand man, Marcus Danvers to try and recruit him, he wonders if she is working as a spy for her father.  Well, he'll just pay her a little visit and find out. <br /> <br />Isabel Harrison is a headhunter and is given Marcus' name to recruit for a client.  Alex couldn't be more wrong about her working for her father as she and he are completely estranged.  He's a cold workaholic who left her to be raised by a series of nannies after her mother died.  This leaves Isabel unnaturally desperate to have children and a family - the family she never had.  She's made a list of the qualities the perfect man would have but so far she's not met Mr Right.  When Alex walks into her office and bullies her to reveal the name of her client, she holds her ground but can't help the attraction she feels for him.  Days later out of the blue he invites her to dinner and the date is a disaster.  He's rude and nasty to her and by then end of the evening she's seething.  But then something happens within him and the next thing you know, they're sharing some steamy kisses.   <br /> <br />From there on out, he pursues her doggedly but she's not quite sure why.  And when he finds her list of qualities for the perfect husband he uses it to convince her to marry him.  But is this all for real or does he have some ulterior motive?   <br /> <br />This was a steamy read and on some level I enjoyed it, but like I said, Alex was a bit much for me.  I didn't understand his sudden obsession with her.  It didn't feel like love so much as irrational posessiveness to me.  And she pretty much just goes along for the ride to me.  Whatever he wants she lets him take, at least for the most part.  I would have enjoyed this story more if he were more likeable and she were a bit stronger but if you like pushy, overbearing alphas, you may like this one more than I did.  <br /> <br />BTW there will be sequel to this one about Marcus and former secretary Veronica that is due out in December, I think.	2005-06-09
US	40354595	R21JP4UZBYE47H	0345480090	111700648	One Night of Sin: A Novel	Books	4	91	94	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Can a rake be not just redeemed but become a hero?	I've read and enjoyed (to one degree or another) every book Ms Foley has ever written.  I love her heroes in particular - smart, sexy, brave, often tortured and usually with a sense of humor.  Readers of this series are very familiar with Lord Alec Knight.  He's a rakehell to be sure and has done some pretty unsavory things.  He whores, he gambles, he drinks to excess and he's arrogant and proud as hell.  His worst crime of course, was breaking his sister's best friend Lizzie Carlisle's heart (in Lady of Desire).  But second to that is the year he spent \\"servicing\\" wealthy, wicked widow Lady Campion in exchange for her paying off his gambling debts.   <br /> <br />Ever since losing Lizzie to one of his friends (Strathmore in Devil Takes a Bride), Alec has been in a sort of funk.  Things he used to enjoy he now finds tiresome.  His faith in humankind is about nil as, in his experience, no one is innocent.  One evening he and his friends discover a young woman asleep on a stoop and, of course, take her for a whore.  They wake her, but she doesn't look or act like a whore (at least not a practiced one) to Alec and he warns his friends to back off to no avail.  After some well-placed kicks and punches, she takes off running.  Alec pursues her to ensure that she is alright, and because it's the most interesting thing that's happened to him lately.  He catches up with her and determines that there is an air of innocence about her regardless of her profession and he decides to take her home with him.  It's been months since he's had a woman and he wants her.  She decides to go with him for reasons of her own . . . <br /> <br />She is Rebecca Ward and she is in some serious trouble.  She's come to London from her country home in Yorkshire to report a crime.  With the death of her grandfather, her cousin, Russian Prince Mikhail Kurkov has become her guardian.  He and his band of Cossacks have taken over her home and surrounding village terrorizing all who live there.  Mikhail has made it clear that she is under his control, she will do as he says and that he has lecherous intentions toward her.  She also witnesses him and his men murdering a man.  The local magistrate is the Duke of Westland who is currently at his London residence and so Becky flees to report the crime to the duke.  But after days on the run she is cold, wet, exhausted and she doesn't know her way around or have any friends to turn to.  Alec Knight may be a rake, but she senses that he is also inherently kind with a certain honor.  She allows him to take her home mainly to elude the Cossacks following her, but also because she's very attracted to Alec. <br /> <br />OF course they share One Night of Sin, and the next day several revelations come to light causing Alec to vow to help her.  He devises a plan to win enough money at the gaming tables to first, buy back her home from Kurkov and then get him arrested for murder.  But in the meantime, Becky must remain hidden and so she and Alec remove for the summer to the Knight family villa in Brighton where the big stakes games will be found.  Will his good luck return and allow him to save Becky?  And, in a way, himself? <br /> <br />This is a redeemed rake story and I felt that it was pretty well done.  Alec has to face many of his past misdeeds and admit to them once he discovers he has real feelings for Becky.  Becky has a no-secrets, total-honesty policy and she doesn't make it easy for Alec to win her.  It's going to take more than charm this time to get what he wants.  I enjoyed watching Alec grow up and, by the end, actually attain hero status.  Becky was a strong, pragmatic heroine but her no nonsense attitudes at times seemed a tiny bit shrewish.  But I think she was just what Alec needed.  <br /> <br />These Knight boys have some serious issues with their long-dead mother that affect their relationships with women.  I almost shudder to think of second son and blacksheep Jack's demons!  But I can't wait for his story which is, finally, next!	2005-06-06
US	40354595	R1G8JHJBNOZFL6	0743485025	5303793	One Way Out	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enjoyable "best enemies" romantic adventure	I'm fairly new to Ms Albert/Jerrot's books having only read the terrific OFF LIMITS prior to this one (and I've got GETTING HER MAN on my TBR).  I like the way she writes realistic characters whose actions and motivations make sense.  Sometimes they're not always the nicest people around, but they feel real.  In OWO, we find two people each with a chip on their shoulder for very different reasons who must work together on a very important find.  <br /> <br />Cassie Ashton is a \\"fossil hunter\\" running her own excavating business with members of her family.  The paleontology establishment looks down on her as a shameless profiteer and scoffs at most of her discoveries.  After all she doesn't have those 3 important letters attached to her name - Ph.D - due to a family tragedy.  But Cassie's team has just found \\"the find of the century\\", the intact skeleton of a baby T-rex.  In order to have her find authenticated she must, very reluctantly, approach her nemesis, Dr Alex Martinelli (Ph.D.!) who works for the local university.  She and Alex have a long and tumultuous history (he almost had her arrested once) and she is not looking forward to meeting with him.  But the knowledge that she has found something so extraordinary, something the likes of which Alex has never found, gives her the confidence she needs for this confrontation. <br /> <br />Alex Martinelli may have a Ph.D., but he's led a far from charmed life.  He's not good at relationships - he's divorced with a teenaged daughter that he hardly knows and is legendary for his between the sheets exploits.  Matter of fact, one of his graduate students is currently sharing his bed, but nothing more, which she quickly discovers.  He's even become disheartened by his lack of significant finds and the hit his professional reputation has been taking of late.  He sometimes feels constrained by the rules the university set out and, though he'd never admit it, often envies a renegade like Ashton her freedom to dig where andwhen she chooses. <br /> <br />When Cassie approaches Alex and tells him of her find, it really hits him hard, though he tries not to let her see it.  He agrees to take a look at the skeleton (named Trixie by Cassie's teenaged son Travis) and from that point on, wild horses couldn't drag him away.  Though he's technically \\"in enemy territory\\" among Cassie's team, he and Cassie decide to work together to clean Trixie up and study her.  This time spent working so closely affords these two the opportunity to really get to know one another and they each begin to like what they see.  But is it genuine affection or are they using one another to get what they want?  When Trixie is stolen, Cassie and Alex must hit the road to track her down before she is taken out of the country. <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this story and, though neither is perfect, I also really liked both Alex and Cassie.  They felt like real people to me with real issues and they had a nice chemistry.  The romance was not quite front and center and much of the book focuses on their disagreements, job and life-choice issues/regrets and the race to find Trixie, but I also enjoyed that part.  Not a great book, but a good one and I do recommend it.	2005-05-28
US	40354595	R1JUU0IU9Q8IYF	0446615153	718210381	Mission: Irresistible (Warner Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	More "madcap" adventure than romance IMO	I had high hopes for this book after having read and enjoyed her prior two books Charmed and Dangerous (the prequel to this book) and License to Thrill, but I didn't care for this one so much.  For me, the adventure overshadowed the romance pushing it almost into the background. <br /> <br />Cassie Cooper is the (slightly ditzy) PR rep for a museum about to launch a new Egyptian exhibit reuniting the mummies of two legendary lovers and their matching amulets.  She has been working with the two very different archeologists who made these discoveries:  Dr Harrison Standish and Dr Adam Grayfield.  Though she's dealt with Adam only over the phone, he's her kind of guy - fun and flirty and she's looking forward to meeting him at the launch.  He's already late and when the lights go out and one of the amulets is stolen, she must turn to nerdy, unpleasant Harrison (or as she refers to him Standoffish!) for help. <br /> <br />Harrison is not a party kind of guy and he figures Cassie is a ditzy, fluffy woman without much substance.  So why does he rush to her defense when her boss is about to fire her over this theft?  He buys some time by implying that this is all part of a mystery party game and that the guests will compete to find out who stole the amulet over the next few days.  Meanwhile he and Cassie will look for Adam and try to find out why he never showed up and what happened to his mummy and the amulet. <br /> <br />Obviously, we have an opposites attract romance here with flighty fashionista Cassie and color-blind fashion victim nerd Harrison, neither of whom really is what they seem of course.  I found the story a bit silly at times, the humor forced.  At other times I was a bit incredulous at Cassie's behavior (when forced to spend the night on his couch, she just happens to bring along her vibrator - and uses it?!).  I don't know I just found the timeframe of this adventure too short, the stuff that happens unrealistic and the romance pretty much uninspired.  Though I did like Cassie and especially Harrison, this one just didn't do if me, unfortunately.  But if you like a wild, escapist adventure, you just might like it. <br />	2005-05-24
US	40354595	R3N1DPSOQDI9DA	037376636X	646160952	Out of Uniform (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Another enjoyable military romance from Amy J Fetzer!	Rick Wyatt is a Marine dedicated to the Corps.  When he is wounded in combat and returns home to recuperate, he is annoyed to find that his commanding officer has engaged a nurse to stay with him until he's recovered.  Having a nursemaid is bad enough, but when she's your estranged wife, it's almost unbearable.  Kate moved out a year ago and all the feelings Rick has been suppressing for the past twelve months have all come surging back to the surface.  God, how he's missed her, but she's the one who left, so he'll be damned if he lets her know it.  Will he ever understand why she left or maybe find a way to convince her to stay?<br /><br />Kate never stopped loving Rick and didn't want to leave, but she couldn't continue to live with a man who couldn't or wouldn't confide in her.  She knows he feels things deeply - just not with her.  He never really needed her and now he only needs her around until he recovers.  But can she really walk away from him a second time?<br /><br />This was a poignant and sexy read about how tough it must be to keep a marriage together in the military - especially when all those tough guys think they shouldn't feel anything!  And if they do, they sure as heck shouldn't share them with the women they love.  Would sharing those feelings and experiences cause those women to see them in a different, negative light?  How silly men can be . . .	2005-05-24
US	40354595	RHAZW7QIVHKTE	0425199975	913829942	Derik's Bane (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Not nearly as good as prior Wyndham Werewolf stories	Could my three year love affair with MJD's books be on the skids?  Well, it needs some counciling or therapy at the very least.  I was really disappointed in this book, which I had been looking forward to for over a year.  It's plot is thin and silly and though Derik is totally lovable, Sara is the same cookie cutter heroine that has become standard in MJD's books.  Yes, it's full of her trademark snarky humour and pop culture references (especially Food Network's annoyingly perky and extremely over-exposed Rachael Ray), but those alone can't carry a book.  After the terrific first Wyndham Werewolves story, Love's Prisoner from Secrets Volume 6 as well as others including Jared's Wolf from Secrets 8, I had expected the same mix of werewolf lore, steamy sex and suspense.  I found little of any of that in this book, however. <br /> <br />The basic storyline is that Derik Gardner, who had grown up within the Wyndham werewolf pack, has begun to show signs of turning alpha, picking fights with his packleader and best friend Michael Wyndham for no good reason.  Derik does not want to fight or challenge Michael for leadership of the pack and so he jumps at a mission to kill one Sara Gunn who is supposedly the reincarnation of Morgan Le Fay and whose presence signals that the end of the world is coming - and soon. <br /> <br />Derik sets out for California to complete his mission, but when he meets Sara he cannot bring himself to kill her.  She's just too pretty and she smells too good!  Together they decide to confront the evil that plans to use Sara for it's own ends and to save the world.  Along the way Sara and Derik share snarky banter and a little steamy sex and eventually fall in love.  But can they save the world? <br /> <br />I don't get this latest trend that has King Arthur, his knights and Camelot as some paranormal plot device (I didn't particularly care for it in Angela Knight's Master of the Night either).  Here we get some convoluted story of Arthur's followers trying to bring him back to life or some such thing and I just found it a bit silly is all.  Usually I grab MJD's books and devour them immediately, but after this one, I find that I'm not doing that.  As a matter of fact I still haven't read Hello, Gorgeous! and I've had that for over a month.  Not a good sign for me.  I can only hope that this is a temporary slump and that forthcoming MJD books will be up to the standard of books like Undead and Unwed, Thief of Hearts, Love Lies, etc. <br /> <br />I especially look forward to her three story anthology Really Unusual Bad Boys (10/05) which includes a reissue of short story Canis Royal: Bridefight and two more shorts about shapeshifters in a place called the Sandlands. <br />	2005-04-21
US	40354595	R1BZA4FL0EUL18	0758208081	51461897	Tell It To The Marines	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Action, adventure, sex & Marines - what more could you want?	I don't think I've ever given an anthology 5 stars but this one was just so much fun to read that I'm rounding up from 4 1/2!  I had only ever associated Amy J Fetzer with Irish medievals and did not realize that she even wrote military contemporaries.  Since I'd never read ANY of her books, I decided to start with this collection of three short stories to get a feel for her style and to see if I'd enjoy it.  Well, I certainly did!  She seems to know her stuff when it comes to the military and the three Gunnery Sergeants she has created here are really yummy heroes! <br /> <br />Hot Conflict is the story of DJ McAllister and longtime friend Mary Grace Heyward.  They met as teens, DJ the bad boy from the wrong side of the tracks and Mary Grace, daughter of wealth and privilege.  DJ has loved her for years but feels he's not good enough for her.  Now she's been abducted while attending an event for her sister and her husband (the ambassador to Panama) and it's up to DJ and his team to save her.  Will their time on the run through the Panamanian jungle reveal how they really feel about one another?  4 stars. <br /> <br />Hot Landing Zone has loner Jake Mackenzie and his team dropping into the lair of Al-Qaeda terrorist Kali in SE Asia to extract scientist Dr Katherine Collier who was abducted in Hong Kong and brought to this island to create a chemical weapon.  Unfortunately, a major storm strikes during the rescue and Jake and Katherine are swept to a deserted island and must await rescue.  During this forced time alone together she reveals the loneliness and isolation she has always felt being a child prodigy and now an \\"egghead\\" scientist who has difficulty relating to others.  And Jake reveals his loneliness resulting from being orphaned as a child and never really belonging anywhere.  Are they two kindred spirits who belong together?  Oh, yeah!  4 1/2 stars. <br /> <br />My fave of the three was Hot Target - oh Rick!!!!  I just really liked both Rick and Sam's characters!  Rick Cahill and his team have their orders to extract Peace Corp volunteer Sam Previn from the Amazon.  What Rick discovers when he arrives, is that Sam is actually a very pretty Samantha!  But their chopper is fired on by drug lords/rebels/whatever (down there, take your pick!) forcing it to take off without Rick and Sam.  And so they must trudge through the jungle to reach the alternate rendevous point.  All the while becoming more and more attracted to each other.  But Sam has a pretty big secret that she's keeping from Rick.  Will it tear them apart once they return to the real world?  5 stars! <br /> <br />I really only read this to see if I'd like her style, as I've heard really good things about her most recent release OUT OF UNIFORM and thought about reading it.  Well, with this fun collection, I've made up my mind that she's an author I'd like to read more from and I will definitely be ordering OOU. <br /> <br />Highly recommended if you love stories about men in uniform (and who doesn't)!	2005-03-29
US	40354595	R1P48DK2G1EXMP	0758205627	897507821	Out Of Control (The McCloud Brothers, Book 3)	Books	4	145	149	N	N	4 1/2 stars.  Another sexy suspense story from Ms McKenna!	I just love the little \\"club\\" of friends and family that Shannon McKenna has created with the Mackey/McCloud/FBI crowd.  But you better really love rough, tough, alpha males with occasional jerk tendencies or you'll likely not enjoy her books.  This one is about eldest McCloud brother Davy, stoic, cool and deadly, former military, martial arts expert and private investigator. <br /> <br />Davy had to grow up quick when his mother died when he was only ten and his already unstable Vietnam vet, survivalist father then declined into full-out paranoid mental illness by the time he was 14.  Add to that three younger brothers to raise and you get a man who needs to be in control and is reluctant to show weakness or emotion - to anyone.  But ever since he spotted Margo Vetter teaching aerobics in the gym next door to his dojo, he has been practically obsessed with her.  She's gorgeous, sexy and not what she's pretending to be.  Being a PI, his first instinct was to do a background check on her and what he found made him more than suspicious.  Why is she using a fake name and dying her hair?  Though he tries to avoid and forget about her, he can't stop noticing her.  And his brother Sean is no help when he intentionally sends Margo to Davy for advice on how to deal with a stalker.  Davy can't not help her - it's just not in him to leave a woman in trouble hanging no matter how many questions he has about her. <br /> <br />Margot Vetter's life has taken a major slide downhill in the past 8 months.  Framed for a murder she did not commit, she's now forced to assume a fake identity, dye her hair and leave her comfortable California home, webdesign business and life behind.  She's barely scraping by, working three jobs, living in a dump.  The last thing she needs is a stalker!  First her porch is covered in rose petals, then a dead dog, then splattered with blood - not to mention the burglary.  When she approaches the \\"scarily gorgeous\\" Davy, he initially makes it clear he wants nothing to do with her.  But the more they talk the more his inherent rescuing tendencies come to the surface and he decides to help her. <br /> <br />But given all she's gone through, Margo is willing to trust Davy only so far and with only so much of her story.  Add to that Davy's cool, quiet and stoic nature and you've got two people who are a bit communication challenged.  This leads to lots of heated arguments that tend to lead to really steamy sex.  Margo is comfortable sharing and showing her emotions  and can't stand that he isn't.  She pushes and goads him into showing emotions; but he'd rather bury them with meditiation, Kung Fu and the like.  While this emotional melodrama plays out when they're alone, they work to discover who is stalking her and why.  And they more they learn, the more danger they are both in! <br /> <br />Shannon McKenna does a great job with really creepy psycho villains and this time, she may have gone a bit over the top.  Creepy, scary, psychotic - I would never want to fall into their hands!  And the body count of hapless, unsuspecting bystanders can be troubling.  Her emotionally angst-filled sex can also get a little bit old but it's always steamy!  Once again we meet up with younger, lighthearted brother Sean, old friend and security expert Seth Mackey, their protege Miles as well as appearances from Nick Ward, middle brother Connor's FBI associate and the mysterious and dangerous Tamara who once again provides a crucial assist.  I hope Ms McKenna can figure out a way to make her a heroine some day, but she's done some seriously bad stuff in her life!  My only issues were a predicatably TSTL moment on Margo's part and, given Davy's emotional paralysis, I didn't \\"feel the love\\" from him like I have from past McKenna heroes like Seth and Connor.  But even with those flaws, still a fast paced, page-turner that kept me glued and up way too late into the wee hours reading!	2005-03-27
US	40354595	R3LMS25JBBYJ1T	075820843X	859045061	Mouth To Mouth	Books	5	74	77	N	N	Yep, another five star review for Mouth to Mouth!	I just loved this book!  I'm a huge fan of Ms McCarthy's books and I think this is her best yet!  Russ is tough but sweet - just a real nice guy.  Laurel is strong and determined and just plain hugable.   <br /> <br />Russ Evans is a cop trying to bust con man Trevor Dean who specializes in \\"romancing\\" plain women then stealing their money.  But there is something off about his latest mark.  She's certainly NOT plain and it bothers Russ that Dean would change tactics with her.  He decides to get a closer look and is shocked to discover that this woman knows his name!  What the heck is going on here? <br /> <br />Laurel Wilkins has decided to finally break out of her shell and live a little and she's decided to start with a man she met online named Russ Evans.  But she quickly learns that the man she has been chatting with online is NOT Russ, but a con man posing as Russ!  The real Russ is a cop who is on Dean's trail but he refuses to let Laurel help to bust him much as she wants to.  Especially when he figures out that she is deaf (she's a really good lip-reader).  The more he talks to her, the more clear Dean's motives become.  She lives in a wealthy neighborhood, a big, expensive house and has a trust fund.  Add to that the vulnerability of being deaf and she's a great mark.  All of which really makes Laurel mad.  Just because she's deaf does not mean that she's stupid.  She knows that she has brought out all of Russ' protective instincts but she doesn't want that.  She wants him - to have a sexual relationship with him.  After years of living with her mother, staying in her safety zone, she is determined to break out and live a little - especially since her mom is out of town!  And so she and Russ enter into what they expect to be a casual sexual relationship.   <br /> <br />Which is fine by Russ as he has enough on his plate with his teenaged brother Sean to look after since the death of their parents.   Sean is really having a hard time adjusting to Russ selling their parent's home, to changing schools and to living with Russ.  Adding a serious romance into the mix would just tip his life totally off kilter.  But there is something about Laurel that he just finds irresistible.  She's so sweet and nice and cute and sexy - he just can't stay away from her.  And as the investigation continues and they become more and more intertwined in each other's lives, what happened to that casual sexual relationship?  And will they ever have enough evidence to bust Dean?  Is he still a threat to Laurel? <br /> <br />What an enjoyable read!  Russ and Laurel are a really great couple who bring out the best in one another.  Their sexual relationship is really steamy.  Though I'm not one for cute nicknames, I loved how he called her \\"Bunny\\".  I know it sounds kind of nauseating but is was really sweet.  And he tries really hard to step back and let Laurel do what she wants and live her life without hovering which she really appreciates.  And I really enjoyed the romance between Russ's partner Jerry and Laurel's co-worker Cat - talk about opposites attracting!  Another great read from Ms McCarthy!	2005-02-25
US	40354595	R2KQKODX8NQK47	0758205848	329009487	Turn Left At Sanity	Books	3	6	9	N	N	More silly than whimsical - Not her best effort	I have read most all of Ms Warren's books and, with a few exceptions, have enjoyed them.  So it pains me to give this book a pretty mediocre review.  I found the humor heavy handed and often silly; the plot and situations fraught with cliches.  This didn't even feel like a Nancy Warren read (I kept thinking I was reading Robin Wells or something!).  Her stories usually have a more sophisticated sense of humor and more inspired romance.  Though there is definitely sexual chemistry, the romance aspect seemed pretty flat. <br /> <br />Emmylou Sargent is the great-grandaughter of a health (mental, physical, sexual) pioneer who ran what we would today call an alternative treatment facility where health and sexual difficulties were studied and treated with rather unorthodox methods.  Today Emmylou has turned the brothel her great-grandmother started to house the facility's \\"intimate healers\\" into a (mostly empty) B&B.  She lives in sleepy Beaverton, Idaho, a town filled with eccentrics (some former inmates at the sanitarium) and she has become accustomed to and fond of the residents and their eccentricities (a guy who thinks he's Napoleon, a sweet kleptomaniac, a woman who affects a French accent though she's not French, etc).  It's a town where everyone accepts and looks out for everyone else.  The pace of life is slow, steady and a little bit dull.  So when a handsome, sexy, high powered NYC mover and shaker comes to town \\"on business\\" Emmylou is more than intrigued. <br /> <br />Joe Montcrief is a no-nonsense workaholic who has come to town to turn the old sanitarium into a factory.  He wonders if he's landed on another planet when he meets the weird and wacky residents of this crazy town.  The only sane person seems to be luscious B&B proprietor Emmylou.  Though he's attracted to her, he's only planning to be in town a day or two to check out the property then he's off to NYC to seal the deal.  But the townsfolk discover his plans and scheme to strand him in town until they can come up with a plan of their own to block the factory.  And of course who better to distract him than the lovely Emmylou who has already captured his attention?  And so Emmylou confiscates his cell, laptop and palm pilot and proceeds to try and show him the wonders of Beaverton, the joys of small town life and how to \\"stop and smell the roses\\".  Will she be able to prove to Joe that his factory will ruin the town?  Will they be able to keep their hands off each other in the process? <br /> <br />Okay, yes there were some cute moments but, call me a cynic, the message was a bit trite - all work and no play makes Joe an incomplete person.  Well, yeah, we all get that.  But Joe and Em are a bit one-dimensional - she's the standard homey, baking, gardening, nuturing type who tries to make the unaware, workaholic robot see that there's more to life than money.  While we all need more balance in our lives, the execution here just seem a bit heavy handed.  On the plus side, both Joe and Em are likable people and their sexual relationship was steamy.  But I'm not sure I bought into the HEA for them.  I felt that the author did a much better job of portraying small town life in prior Brava release DRIVE ME CRAZY where the residents seems more realistic and less stereotypical.  Disappointing for me but those who enjoy a silly, wacky type of tale may just enjoy it.	2005-02-23
US	40354595	R2ZLUUUJOS85VV	0821778315	4149739	The Naked Duke (Zebra Debut)	Books	3	82	84	N	N	Don't expect a lighthearted romp!  Pretty good debut	In some ways this book seems to be a throwback to the 70's/80's bodice ripper-type books.  Extremely naive virgin, sleazy, psycho villain and rape, so you are forewarned.  But the book also has some nice humour, some charming moments between the h/h and the hero is not an overbearing alpha male, so it's a bit of a mixed bag.  <br /> <br />Sarah Hamilton is an American who has traveled to England on the death of her father.  She is to locate her uncle, the earl of Westbrooke, but she has gone quite as far as she can this day and is desperate for a room at an inn before continuing on to her uncle's home.  She is directed to a room by a rather drunk gentleman (who he turns out to be is rather funny) but she's grateful to sink into a bed and sleep.  She wakes to find herself in bed with a man - both of them naked - and soon, with an audience!  The gentleman, who turns out to be the duke of Alvord, tells her that she has been thoroughly compromised and now must marry him!  Coming from America where she did not really mix with society, she can't see why such drastic action is necessary.  Nothing happened afterall!  But everyone around her seems to agree and so she agrees to consider marriage to James, the naked (very handsome and charming!) duke. <br /> <br />James has been considering marriage lately as he feels some pressure to get himself an heir.  Lately there have been one too many strange \\"accidents\\" leading James to conclude that his cousin Richard is trying to kill him in order to grab the dukedom for himself.  James cannot let that happen for Richard is unstable, selfish and cruel.  He will not let his lands and his people fall into Richard's hands.  And now this beautiful young American has just fallen into his lap, so to speak.  He has the perfect excuse to marry her quickly, but she is reluctant.  They agree to get to know one another, to let him court her until/unless the story of what happened at the inn gets out.  If that happens marriage is definite. <br /> <br />And so, Sarah is launched into society (along with James' younger sister Lizzie) and he does his best to charm her and convince her to marry him, though he knows that this may put her in danger.  For Richard is desperate that James not marry and certainly does not want him to have an heir.  As Richard gets more desperate, James becomes more worried and more determined to keep Sarah safe.  But who is in more danger - Sarah or James?  Can Richard be stopped before someone gets killed? <br /> <br />This is a mix of charming romance, culture clash and dark suspense.  Though I liked Sarah's character overall and admired her more republican attitudes toward the aristocracy, I don't think I've come across a more clueless virgin in years!  She's the daughter of a physician but has no clue where babies come from!  If that type of virgin drives you crazy you may have a hard time with her.  Richard is without doubt a very dark character who does some very evil things.  And I haven't read a book in years that contained multiple rape/attempted rape/near rape scenes, so again, if that type of thing creeps you out you are forewarned.  But James is entirely yummy!  He's very charming, sweet, good natured, witty and warm.  He's the real star of this book IMO. <br /> <br />Bottom line, this is a pretty good debut that shows promise for this author in future.  I can just feel books coming for James' friends Major Charles Draysmith and Robbie Hamilton, who also happens to be Sarah's cousin and the new earl of Westbrooke.	2005-02-16
US	40354595	R3M2QSEL34VM9B	0373124384	550216558	The Billionaire's Pregnant Mistress: Mistress to a Millionaire	Books	3	33	37	N	N	Could have been better but he was hard to like IMO	Like many readers, I'd never even heard of this author until The Real Deal came out and everyone gushed over it.  So I read TRD and I really enjoyed that book and thought I'd check out some of her other books.  This one sounded intriguing so I started here.  It could have been a good book, but I just never really warmed up to the \\"hero\\". <br /> <br />He is Greek tycoon Dimitri Petronides and he has been living with fashion model Xandra Fortune for the past year.  They have a very steady but superficial relationship in which the emphasis is on living in the moment, sharing steamy sex and some level of affection.  But not sharing each other's deepest thoughts, hopes, dreams or even discussion of respective families, etc.  One day Dimitri's ailing grandfather imposes an ultimatum:  he will not have life-saving heart surgery until Dimitri agrees to marry Phoebe Leonides the nice Greek girl he has been expected to marry.  And so he must end things with Xandra to save his beloved grandfather.  He figures she won't be devastated, afterall she's totally focused on her career and often put it ahead of him.  No, she'll be just fine - that's what he tells himself, anyway. <br /> <br />But Xandra Fortune is not what or whom he assumes.  She's got good reasons for working so hard but she's never shared them with Dimitri.  But things change when one day she discovers that she is pregnant.  She is in the midst of debating herself over how to tell him when he abruptly (and not too kindly) tells her it's over.  That he's getting married and that there is no longer a place in his life for her.  Contrary to Dimitri's expectations she is devastated.  He walks out before guilt can overwhelm him and leaves her to her tears.  Days later they meet again and she tells him about the baby.  He freaks out and refuses to believe that the baby is his.  The next thing she knows, she's being evicted from their shared apartment, thrown out like so much garbage.   <br /> <br />So Xandra, whose realname is Alexandra Dupree quits her job, closes all her accounts and goes home to America leaving no trace of Xandra Fortune behind.  Alexandra winds up in NYC living with her sister and brother-in-law.  Meanwhile, Dimitri has had second thoughts and is now desperate to find her.  But there is no trace of Xandra Fortune - it's like she's dropped off the face of the earth.  Will he ever find her and if he does can he ever win her back? <br /> <br />Okay, IMO Dimitri would have been hard to like under any circumstance, but his character really suffers because so little of the story is told from his perspective.  We get pages and pages of Alexandra's feelings and thoughts but little of his.  The result is that the reader has the impression of an extremely selfish, overbearing, almost cold man determined to have his own way no matter what Alexandra wants.   And that's a shame because I think he could have been yummy with a bit more development.  I like Alexandra's character, though she did let him push her around a bit more than I would have liked.  But she was realistic about the kind of man he was and her feelings for him and she definitely had her pride.  If you like pushy alpha's maybe you will like Dimitri's character more than I, but if not, this likely is not the book for you. <br />	2005-02-16
US	40354595	R1XBM6FHAVUQGV	0743464486	576845629	My Demon's Kiss (Bound in Darkness) (No. 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Terrific read!	There's not much more that I can add that hasn't already been said by prior reviewers.  I'm not a huge fan of vampire stories, but for some reason have read several this past year and I have to say that this book and Cyndi Friberg's terrific Born of the Shadows are the best and most interesting I've yet read. <br /> <br />Simon is a knight who is turned into a vampire while on Crusade.  He hates what he is and when he learns that there may be a way for him to become human again, he can't help but hope and believe.  He and his wizard sidekick Orlando have been on their quest for ten years when they finally arrive at Charmot, a castle in England built on the ruins of an old Druid stone circle.  Legend holds that a chalice that could \\"cure\\" Simon can be found there and so Simon and Orlando present themselves to the Lady of Charmot. <br /> <br />That lady is Isabel and since the death of her father she has been responsible for her castle and her people.  She has successfully held would-be husbands and marauders at bay with the help of her father's (unfortunately aging) good friend and a little deception.  She worries that their luck will run out if they are set upon again, and fears for the safety of her castle.  But Simon presents himself (okay, he lies!) as her distant cousin who is cursed and who was led to Charmot by a vision from her father.  He and Orlando explain that somewhere within the castle they will find a cure for Simon's curse.  Isabel is not sure she believes them, but lets them stay for two reasons:  1. She gets him to agree to protect her castle against any attack and 2.  She finds herself very much attracted to the angelic-looking yet slightly dangerous Simon. <br /> <br />Though Simon tries to stay away from her, he is helplessly attracted to her and feels a strong need to protect her (even from himself).  Isabel is wary of Simon's true motives, but she also needs his sword arm to protect her people and she finds herself falling for this kind, handsome enigma.  They become lovers and Simon's quest continues but will an evil that has followed him from the Holy Land crush all their hopes? <br /> <br />Simon is adorable, sexy, kind and just a really good man who refuses to abandon his humanity and his faith after he is turned.  Isabel is smart, pragmatic and independent - a heroine that readers can like and respect.  The villain is really evil and vile and scary!  The author's descriptions and tone are vivid, dark, mystical pulling reader into her story's time and place.  This is the first in a series and there will be more vampires and adventures to come.  I for one will be reading them.	2005-01-15
US	40354595	R2SRDYMXUGUXCB	1843609053	969907468	Dangerous Desires	Books	4	21	23	N	N	4 1/2 stars - perhaps not entirely plausible, but I liked it	This is my first book by Julia Templeton and I was interested to read it as it is an erotic Regency and I wanted to see how she did with it.  I think pretty well!  Apparently, this is a reissue of her first book, originally titled TO LOVE AND HONOR, which came out in 1999.  The setting is 1810 England (okay, the Regency period did not strictly begin until 1811!) and Arlie Whitman has traveled from her home in a small Welsh village to Rochford Manor just outside London.  On the death of her father, seventeen year old Arlie will now be under the protection of Dominic Santrell, the earl of Rochford who has been named her guardian.  Arlie is not so provincial that she has not heard of the scandalous Rochford and she truly does not know what to expect.  She is a curious and lively girl who yearns to experience the diversions of London and city life and wonders what sort of experiences await her. <br /> <br />Dominic is, indeed, a rake and a rogue and he has no intention of ever marrying.  For him, love (if one would even call it that!) lasts as long as an evening's pleasure.  He is unhappy about his new status as guardian and plans to marry her off as soon as may be.  And when he meets his lovely ward, the need to marry her off becomes imperative, for he cannot live long with such a beautiful creature under his roof, but off limits! <br /> <br />After lessons in deportment, etiquette, French, etc., she is ready to be launched into Society.  Of course, she is a rousing success and soon Dominic must put up with dozens of suitors all eager for the hand of his lovely ward.  Though he knows that marriage is the only option for her, for them both, he is increasingly jealous of the men competing for her hand.  He wants her for himself, but he refuses to ever marry and she is too sweet and young to become his mistress.  What a mess his life has become! <br /> <br />As for Arlie, she is a bit overwhelmed by her success and all the men she has attracted.  Especially since she wants the attention of only one man - her handsome and sexy guardian.  While attending a house party at the home of, what she eventually learns is Dominic's married mistress, Arlie is both hurt and disgusted by Dominic's behavior.  She leaves the party on her own and returns home.  Once he discovers she has gone, Dominic races after her and they share a very passionate encounter.  Soon they have become lovers and, though she continues to see her suitors and contemplate marriage, both are torn.  He's not so sure he can part with her and she only wants Dominic, but knows he will not marry her.  And so, what to do?  Will Arlie follow her heart and stay with Dominic knowing she will ruin herself?  Or will Dominic let her go, let her marry and keep her respectability?   <br /> <br />I really enjoyed this story.  Arlie was a sweet, nice and passionate girl who only wanted to be with the man she loved.  Dominic was a man who had loved once and lost, unwilling to give his heart a second time.  I enjoyed their relationship, their passion and appreciated their difficulties, though most of them were of Dominic's making.  There were some nice secondary characters as well, Dominic's friend Langley and Dominic's mother who finally forces her hand (and Dominic's) to resolved the situation.  I really enjoyed this book and I think I will check out KIERAN THE BLACK next (though I'm not a huge fan of time travel stories, this looks like fun!).  Another new author for me to discover!	2004-12-06
US	40354595	R1X4D4LPQQFKMJ	0345456947	559514085	Flashpoint (Troubleshooters, Book 7)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	I really enjoyed it!  Fast paced and action packed!	OK, I'm not a Suz superfan, I have only a vague idea who Sam and Alyssa are and I have only read five of her books, all from the TDD Seal Team Ten series (PRINCE JOE, FOREVER BLUE, FRISCO'S KID, EVERYDAY, AVERAGE JONES and NIGHTWATCH).  I have THE UNSUNG HERO on my TBR shelf, but this is my first Troubleshooters book.  And, personally, I really enjoyed it.  I am really surprised that this book is getting two and even one star reviews.  It may have flaws, but it's hardly a terrible book!  Let's keep some perspective here!  And all the nitpicking over minutae like the \\"gun stuff\\" as one reviewer called it seems overkill - call me blissfully ignorant, but I just didn't care.  I mean if you want that level of detail read Tom Clancy or something!  Anyway, I liked it and had fun reading it (though I would NEVER have paid for it in hardcover as hardcover romance novels are a pet peeve!). <br /> <br />Agent Diego \\"Jimmy\\" Nash is a hunky, sexy, love-em-and-leave-em type with a \\"serious 007 complex\\" and Tess Baily is a support specialist who has it bad for him.  But Tess is smart enough not to let it show or act on it as that would be incredibly stupid!  Tess is the nice girl-next-door type and everybody likes her.  Jimmy likes her but he doesn't do nice girls.  Jimmy's partner Lawrence Decker likes her but never mixes business with pleasure, plus he knows that she has a thing for Nash - they always do.  She hopes to become a field agent and when she comes across a threat to Decker, she contacts Jimmy and together they come to Decker's rescue - after which Tess and Jimmy have a one night stand that both regret. <br /> <br />A month later, Tess discovers two things:  one, that Jimmy and Deck have quit the agency without a word and two, that Tess is never going to get that promotion to field agent.  She quits her dead-end job and accepts a position with Troubleshooters, Inc where she again runs into Jimmy and Deck.  They are assigned to locate a laptop belonging to a top Al-Qaeda leader who was killed in an earthquake in Kazbekistan (think Afghanistan under the Taliban).  K-stan has been closed to the West since the fundamentalist regime took power but the earthquake has opened up the borders to western relief workers.  The team will pose as relief workers (with Tess and Jimmy posing as husband and wife) to locate and retrieve the missing laptop.  While there team leader Decker encounters the mysterious Sophia who had been held by warlord Padsha Bashir until she escaped in the mayhem and confusion of the earthquake.  He does not know whether or not to trust her, but she may know something about a former CIA contact that Deck needs to locate as a secondary mission.  Their interactions are intriguing and Deck finds himself very ambivalent about her while she is desperate to get out of the country and sees Deck as her best last chance.  Her presence complicates things a lot but she also has knowledge they don't.  She's lived in K-stan for many years and knows her way around Bashir's palace.  But will she prove herself trustworthy?  Add into the mix a pesky American journalist who dogs their heels and the chance of discovery by warlord Bashir and everyone on is edge.  Will they ever get out of this country, or shall I say \\"pit\\" alive? <br /> <br />OK there were some things that I wished were done better.  The romance was definitely not the main event here as the story is dominated by the political and suspense aspects.  Jimmy has serious jerk tendencies and is a very selfish person, but you know deep down he's a good guy, though he thinks he's not.  Some things stretched believability, especially toward the end of the book.  But on the whole, I liked it and I liked the characters - Jimmy, Tess, Deck, Sophia - and I hope to see them again in future books (especially Deck and Sophia!).	2004-12-04
US	40354595	R3DK7FU3ZFRJ1M	1843607042	328843743	Kiss of Heat (Feline Breed)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Kane and Sherra's story sizzles!  Another great Breed read!	This is the third in Lora Leigh's Feline Breed Series (first was TEMPTING THE BEAST; second was THE MAN WITHIN)  and it is another terrific, steamy read which advances the story of the Breeds and their quest for acceptance by society.  This one overlaps with her last Wolf Breed story, ELIZABETH'S WOLF, and I think it helps to read that book before this one as some of the characters from that book (Dash, Elizabeth and Cassie) appear in this book and references to them (especially Cassie) may be a bit unclear to those who haven't read EW.  Plus, EW is a great book and you should read it anyway! <br /> <br />Kane Tyler is former military and had infiltrated the secret labs of The Genetics Council eight years ago before the public knew of the experiments that took place there.  Humans with animal DNA were being created to be super soldiers, but treated like little more than animals for experimentation.  There he met Sherra, a beautiful blonde with snow leopard DNA.  In his undercover role as a guard he is recruited to mate with Sherra in order to see if she will be able to breed.  After being with her, he is determined to get her out of this hell, but is thwarted in his attempt.  When explosions rock the labs Kane accepts that all inside, including Sherra, have perished.  Kane has carried his bitter grief for the loss of Sherra for the last eight years fueling his desire to bring The Council down. <br /> <br />Unbeknownst to Kane, Sherra survived the explosions believing that Kane had lied to her about getting her out and simply left her behind to her living hell.  Now, years later, she plans to avenge herself when she finally meets Kane again.  Kane's sister Merinus is married to Sherra's fellow Breed Callan (their story is TEMPTING THE BEAST) and he has joined forces with the Breeds to protect them from the \\"blood supremacists\\" whose goal is to annihilate all Breeds.  He is stunned to see Sherra alive and well, and what follows are several steamy, tension-filled encounters wherein each begins to learn just what has happened to the other over the past eight years.  There is much heartache here, especially for Sherra, and Kane's pain and frustration that he was not able to be there for her is palpable.   And their sexual relationship is steaming!  The Breed males in this series are as uber alpha as you can get, and Kane fits right in!  He loves to give orders and expects them to be obeyed.  Too bad Sherra is a strong person in her own right and is not easily cowed by the domineering Kane.  Not that Kane is totally one-dimensional - he's capable of great tenderness and his love for Sherra is obvious behind his bluster. <br /> <br />Another terrific, fast-paced, action-packed and sexy read from Ms Leigh!  I just love her Breeds Series and I just finished SOUL DEEP, her newest release and the first book about a Coyote breed (it's also great BTW and Dash, Elizabeth and Cassie feature in this one as well!).  Very highly recommended!!   <br /> <br />	2004-12-04
US	40354595	RP55OZDBVG4NC	0425199177	333409951	Miss Fortune (Lear Family Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	A real disapointment - NOT "unputdownable" for me	I LOVED the first two books in the series, MATERIAL GIRL and BEAUTY QUEEN, and I was really looking forward to MISS FORTUNE but this one just didn't do it for me.  I really had to struggle to finish it and my gut tells me to give it two stars, but I didn't hate it, I did enjoy the last hundred pages or so, and I like the author thus three stars. <br /> <br />Rachel is the youngest of the spoiled Lear sisters and far from the free-spirited, flaky hippie chick I had expected, I found her more under-achieving, incredibly insecure, lacking-in-common-sense doormat!  She's thirty-one years old but acts like she's 21.  She's been in school for ten years, generally floating through life directionless and wonders why her dad gives her grief!  Her father is dying and all she wants to do is avoid him because he might yell at her!  I found her character both annoying and amazing at the same time.  Unfortunately, rather than empathize or identify with her I kept yelling at her to grow up and gain a spine!  And to kick Myron to the curb for pity's sake!  I'm sorry, but she was such a cliche, whereas Robin and Rebecca were sympathetic and believable to me, Rachel just wasn't. <br /> <br />And if you're expecting a lot of romance, forget it.  It takes forever for Rachel and Flynn to get together and even then, I never bought into the romance, nor did I feel much chemistry between them.  You can figure out what's going to happen almost from the very beginning and as a result, I found myself just generally bored up until about page 300. <br /> <br />And Flynn just didn't do it for me at all.  He seemed perhaps not cold, but remote and I never believed he had real feelings for her - except that the author told me so!  Very little of the story is told from his perspective and I didn't ever have a strong sense of what he was thinking or feeling.  I guess she did this to keep mystery and suspense around his character, but I had figured out who he was and what he was up to from very earlyon.  And I think she went a bit far with the Brit slang/terminology. <br /> <br />So what did I like?  The continuation of the Bonnie/Aaron storyline was really satisfying.  And just when Dagne was getting on my last nerve, she becomes lots of fun in the last hundred pages.   <br /> <br />Overall, disappointing but I will look forward to future books and consider this a fluke.	2004-11-06
US	40354595	RBR1XEOOM7DAY	0843953721	907826148	Devil's Bargain	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Didn't find it particularly erotic or romantic either	This book had some buzz and so I thought I'd read it to see if Katherine Greyle's Jade Lee erotic stories would be something to watch.  For me, the answer is - maybe.  The premise, while improbable, sounded intriguing but the execution fell a bit short of the mark. <br /> <br />On the death of her parson father, Lynette Jameson does not want to be a penniless drain on her relations and so, on the advice of a family friend, writes to Baroness Huntley who will assist her in finding a wealthy husband.  When she arrives in London, however, it is not only the baroness, but her handsome, brooding nephew, Viscount Marlock who will participate in her instruction.  For not only will she learn comportment, manners, fashion and how to move in Society, she will also learn how to entice and please a man.  The \\"Marlock brides\\" are, for lack a a better word, marketed to a select group of older, often sickly gentlemen who want to be pleasured and taken care of in their dotage.  Marlock's sales pitch to the destitute girls who come to him is that in five, ten, fifteen years the old boy will kick off and then the women are free to carry on and do as they please as wealthy widows.  While Lynette struggles with \\"selling herself\\" and often has misgivings, she feels this is the best course open to her and resigns herself to her fate.  She suffers indignities, insecurities and a blossoming sensuality that Adrian awakens in her that both thrills and frightens her. <br /> <br />Adrian takes no satisfaction in what he has been reduced to in order to save his crumbling family estate.  He feels anger at his family (especially his aunt), his fate, shame for his actions and sadness for these women who become such a large part of his life and then leave him to his loneliness.  He wonders if he is helping them to a better life or selling them into slavery with the hope of a distant payoff years down the road.  But from day one Lynette is different.  She is much more sensible, curious, intelligent,and innately sensual than any of his prior \\"girls\\".  He admires her and does not look forward to the day when she walks down the aisle - eventhough his part of her marriage portion will finally allow him to quit this wretched business and begin to set his estate to rights. <br /> <br />Of course they fall for one another and now have a dilemma:  he needs her to marry to ensure his financial future and she needs the security of a rich husband.  What to do? <br /> <br />While I enjoyed aspects of this story, I found it surprisingly slow, lifeless, and flat.  I liked the characters on an intellectual level but they never really touched me on an emotional level.  And I had expected much more of a sustained erotic undercurrent between Adrian and Lynette from the moment she entered the house, but there really wasn't much - only during the admittedly steamy scenes in the last quarter of the book, which was very disappointing.  Surprisingly the only character that I truly felt empathy for was the baroness, Aunt Agatha whose guilty over Adrian's fate and the fate of all those girls drives her to the bottle - until Lynette challenges her to take another stab at life.  While enjoyable on some levels, it's just not a book that I would heartily recommend to others.  I will keep an open mind, however, as her next books will be set in China and delve into the Dragon/Tigress sect.  If she can infuse a little more life and emotion into her characters, she'll be a force to be reckoned with. <br /> <br />	2004-10-19
US	40354595	R1Z7KBA14B8ED9	0821775030	572340782	He Said Never (Gentleman's Club, Book 4)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another sensual and enjoyable read from Ms Waddell	Sadly the last in this series about titled gentlemen in Victorian England and their exploits in love.  I've only just discovered Ms Waddell and this is the fourth of her books that I've read this year - and I've enjoyed every one!  She writes very sweet, witty and sensual romances with heroes you could fall for and heroines you can respect. <br /> <br />As readers of the series know Benjamin Exeter, Viscount Rathbone is the wildest of the friends and the last one expected to marry.  He has no intention of doing so but he finds himself fascinated by the ward of the powerful Duke of Worley, Prudence Tamhill.  She is lauded for her beauty and virtue and is also the heiress to a shipping fortune.  Rathbone finds himself amused by her image and has the feeling that their is much more to the serene Miss Tamhill than meets the eye. <br /> <br />He's right, of course!  Prudence has been putting off marriage and the suitors her guardian keeps shoving into her path as long as possible so that she can come into her inheritance and be an independent woman.  She also has a more secret quest that she undertakes to discover if the man who raised her upon her mother's death and until his own was really her true father.  She is intent on this quest when Rathbone comes upon her in Green Park - at dusk and without chaperon!  At first he cannot believe his eyes, but eventually maneuvers her into his carriage and escorts her home.  At the garden gate they share several sweet and sensual kisses and both walk away from the encounter a bit dazed.   <br /> <br />Over the next weeks, as they continue to meet again socially their attraction continues to sizzle.  Meanwhile, Rathbone is challenged to a wager by one of his gambling acquaintances to obtain a ring from Miss Tamhill and produce it within one week.  As he is about to attend a weekend houseparty which she will also be attending, he thinks it will be a piece of cake.  How wrong he is and by the end of the weekend he is desperate enough to break into her room while she sleeps to snatch the ring.  What follows is a very funny and sexy turn of events that results in discovery and ultimately marriage. <br /> <br />Though marriage was the last thing on his mind, Rathbone finds himself not only resigned, but almost content with his fate.  He likes Prudence and thinks they will get on well together.  Prudence feels the same, but feels strongly that she must resolve the issue of her paternity one way or another.  She is shocked to find that Rathbone is willing to support and assist her in her quest.  He finds he wants her undivided attention and knows he will never get it until she puts this issue to rest.  And so they work together to discover the truth all the while, falling in love. <br /> <br />Her quest, however does get a bit old and I felt it was drawn out way too long toward the end of the story and that's my biggest complaint.  But the payoff in the end is amusing and readers of the series will chuckle at Rathbone's realization of who his father-in-law turns out to be!  I don't know what's next for this author but I'll be interested to find out.  Though this is a series, it's not that important to read them in sequence as each stands on it's own.  A recommended story and author.	2004-10-16
US	40354595	R30M69IAZB5869	0843953098	474360377	The Spare (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	4 1/2 stars - Lord Ruin 2 it this isn't!  Creative & unusual	I very much enjoyed this author's last book LORD RUIN, but do not expect the same type of story or tone here.  THE SPARE is a bit more Gothic with a touch of the paranormal and I found myself enjoying it much more than I had anticipated.  Actually I think I prefer it to LR!  As another reviewer said, it's original and unusual and THE SPARE is an apt title. <br /> <br />Sebastian Alexander was a third son (a spare) who never thought to see the earldom and had settled on a career in the Royal Navy that he has pursued with gusto.  He would be on the deck of his ship now if he could, but two events have impacted his life, one most unexpectedly.  First, he was wounded in battle and is still recovering from his injuries.  Second, he is now the earl of Tiern-Cope after the mysterious death of his only remaining brother and his wife.  There are many lurid rumours of a ghost who haunts Pennhyll, but only one witness to the crime - Miss Olivia Willow who was present the night of the murder and was almost killed herself.  Only problem is, she claims to remember nothing from that night or the days surrounding the crime.  Sebastian is suspicious of her to say the least, and is determined to uncover all she knows.  The fact that she is a lively, attractive but pitifully poor redhead will not sway him from his purpose. <br /> <br />To entertain Sebastian during his recuperation (and to help find him a wife to begin his nursery), his friend James assembles a house party and Olivia is invited to even the numbers (another spare!).  This serves Sebastian's purposes in that he intends to interrogate her to discover what happened the night his brother died and what her involvement was.  Olivia is gentry but poor and has suffered many injustices but always carries herself with grace and dignity and I admired her character very much.  She is uncomfortable with Society and prefers to blend into the woodwork but Sebastian will not let her.  They begin as adversaries, progress to wary alliesand ultimately fall in love in a slow but natural and believable manner.  Will Olivia ever remember what happened that night?  Does he or she really want to know the truth?  The use of the ghost of the Black Earl was very effective - especially the erotic episodes both Sebastian and Olivia experience.  Are they dreams, hallucinations or did they really happen?  Whichever, they are steamy and romantic!  <br /> <br />Kudos to Ms Jewel for taking some risks!  Ghosts are always a risk as is creating an unrepentantly, uncharming leading man and allowing the reader to discover over time that he is actually a loyal, decent, intelligent and sexy man!  Paired with the delightful Olivia and some nicely drawn secondary characters it's a story I heartily recommend (though I really didn't care for the cover)!  <br />	2004-10-15
US	40354595	R3DK4ADY2DPLRY	0843954523	820524286	Blood Moon Over Bengal	Books	4	12	13	N	N	British Colonial India comes to life!	Ever since watching the Masterpiece Theater dramatization of Paul Scott's Raj Quartet AKA The Jewel in the Crown, I've been interested in British Colonial India.  So when I stumbled onto this book which takes place in the waning years of the British Raj (specifically 1932 Calcutta) I wouldn't have missed it!  Murder mystery, imperialism, prejudice and forbidden love all combine for an enjoyable and interesting debut for this new author.  Those who loved Scott's romance between English-educated Indian Hari Kumar and British born and raised Daphne Manners may also enjoy this story. <br /> <br />\\"Modern girl\\" Elizabeth Mainwarring has just recently inherited millions in addition to a sheep station in New Zealand on the death of her beloved mother.  Elizabeth was born in India but her mother left her controlling, dictatorial, military man father when she was a child using malaria as her public reason for returning to England with her daughter.  Now on her way to her inherited property in New Zealand, Elizabeth drops in (quite literally!) on her father's military compound in India to attempt reconciliation. <br /> <br />Major Nigel Covington-Singh is what is unkindly referred to in Brit circles, a \\"cheechee\\" or \\"blacky-white\\" meaning he is half Indian and half English.  And even though his father is the Maharaja of Kashmir and his grandfather was the English Duke of Avesbury, he cannot escape the prejudice of the British with whom he works and lives among.  When several Brahmin (Indian upper-class) women are savagely murdered Nigel is given the task of investigating the murders. <br /> <br />When his commanding officer's estranged daughter shows up quite unexpectedly, it shakes Nigel's world as he is very attracted to her.  Unfortunately, there are two very good reasons that he cannot pursue her:  one, she is the daughter of his boss; two, an English woman would be ruined if she consorted with an Indian man - no matter how exalted his family tree.  It just is not done.But Elizabeth cannot understand such prejudice and Nigel cannot resist her and so a discreet (and steamy) romance begins.  Things escalate when English women begin numbering among the killer's victims - especially women who have \\"consorted\\" with Indian men.  Which makes it all the more imperative to keep their relationship under wraps and could put Elizabeth in danger.  Can Nigel find the killer before another Englishwoman dies? <br /> <br />This is really more historical murder mystery than romance novel but I still enjoyed it as I love the setting and period in which the story takes place.  If you are looking primarily for a romance, there may not be enough here for you.  The murder mystery was well done as the author set up several plausible suspects and it took me a good while to figure out whodunit.  And the author really brings India and the period to life for the reader.  But I must say that toward the end she throws in a few unnecessary complications and sometimes she went on too long in describing fairly minor characters or situations and I found myself skimming.  But I did enjoy this story and will likely check out her next book which will be set in WWII London.  A promising new author. <br />	2004-10-15
US	40354595	RAND7OKWM7KOD	0758208863	601572023	Merry Christmas, Baby	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Pretty mediocre collection of extremely short stories	Okay, six stories by six authors in a book that totals 307 pages.  You do the math and figure out how strong these stories are.  I think publishers are really going overboard when they try to cram this many stories in a book this short - the average length of each story is about 43 pages!  And this is very disappointing for me since this book includes stories from some of my favourite authors, particularly Davidson, Warren and McCarthy.  If you just want a quick taste of each, I guess this is worth your effort, but if you want more than that, don't bother. <br /> <br />Ms Kauffman closes out her Morgan Brothers series with Burke's story.  Preparing to set out on his maiden voyage as captain of his own pleasure cruise business, his partner drops the bomb on him that he's taken a job Down Under.  He placates Burke by assuring him that his granddaughter is just as good a cook as he is.  When he meets Kam, she sure looks good, but she's also seasick.  You can imagine how he cures her of it.  Really not much to this one at all.  The most satisfying part was the epilogue which wrapped up the series. <br /> <br />Ms Warren has perky weather girl Marisa and her survivalist cameraman Rob stranded in a blizzard.  Rob thinks she's a superficial twinkie but is attracted to her anyway, much to his disgust.  Marisa thinks he's surly and superior.  Their forced time together brings them to the conclusion that neither is what the other seemed.  One of the better of the bunch, but do they still have perky weather girls?  I thought these days you had to be a meterologist to do TV weather! <br /> <br />Erin McCarthy's story felt a lot like a Lori Foster short - you decide if that's good or bad!  It was a cute story of cartoonist Josh who has finally decided to tell his best friend Cassidy that he wants to be more than friends.  He does it through his cartoon strip, but she misunderstands what it means.  This one was cute and enjoyable. <br /> <br />MaryJanice disappointed me (and sheis one of my VERY fave authors!).  Her story was so reminiscent of an earlier short story for another Xmas anthology, Santa Claws from the Naughty or Nice collection from a few years back.  Except in this story, the sidewalk Santa is cop Corrine undercover to catch a purse snatcher and her love interest is wealthy Brit business man Grant instead of a wealthy Scottish werewolf.  While I always love MJD's stories and this one had it's wonderfully quirky and crazy moments, I felt like I had read it before.  But if you haven't read Santa Claws, you just may love it. <br /> <br />Ms Monroe's story of a virgin lingerie model (!) and a Texas rancher was sweet but just seemed so unrealistic to me.  But I must say Jake was a hunk and a half - very sexy! <br /> <br />I think Susanna Carr's story was my favourite and that surprised me as I'd never read her before.  A group of old friends reunite in their small hometown for the holidays and get trapped together during a snowstorm.  A power outtage, a mistaken bedroom, an incredible sexual encounter and the realization in the morning light that Karen did not enter the bedroom she thought!  Can Tyler convince her that it was the right one afterall?  Sexy and sweet. <br /> <br />Personally I think publishers are putting out too many of these anthologies - it seems there are two or three out every month or so.  I'd much rather see longer stories featuring fewer authors a lot less often - for what it's worth!	2004-10-15
US	40354595	R1Y36SH46ZL0R2	0758207921	743588418	The Irish Devil	Books	4	23	28	N	N	Interesting story & super hot!  Not for the faint of heart!	Ms Whiteside is a new author for me and when I read about this book I was intrigued.  I don't read Americana or Westerns as a general rule but the fact that it was an erotic western with an Irish hero piqued my interest.  It's the story of two people from opposite ends of the social spectrum whose fortunes in life are radically changed. <br /> <br />Recently widowed Viola Ross, the daughter of a genteel, wealthy Cincinnati family, was disowned by them after she married a man of whom they disapproved.  After realizing that her family had, indeed cut her off, he drags Viola all over the Western Territories in search of the gold that will make him rich.  Unfortunately in Arizona he met his demise and Viola is left virtually penniless in the mining backwater of Rios Piedras.  She is being relentlessly pursued by Paul Lennox who is desperate to marry her.  After her experience with her husband she is determined not to marry again, but she needs money to sustain herself.  She decides to approach the only other man in town with as much wealth as Lennox for help - Irishman William Donovan.  He's a gorgeous man with a reputation for fairness (and for his skill in bed according to the local doxies). <br /> <br />William has come a long way from his poor beginnings in County Cork, Ireland.  He's overcome poverty, starvation, the loss of his entire family and the \\"no Irish need apply\\" attitudes he encountered along the way.  He's now the wealthy owner of a freight company with a government contract to haul supplies to the forts in Arizona being built to protect against the Apaches.  He's acutely aware of Viola Ross and regularly fantasizes about her - she's his perfect faerie queen - but he's sure she'd consider him beneath her.  So when she approaches him with a proposition to become his mistress, he is momentarily shocked, but he'll take any chance to have her, if only for three months.   <br /> <br />And oh what heat these two generate!  William wastes no time in initiatingViola in the ways of erotic pleasure and soon she's a willing partner in these activities.  But is there more than just sexual attraction between them?  And a few of the questions you'll wonder about are:  Why did Viola marry her husband in the first place?  Why does Paul Lennox pursue her to the point of obsession?    <br /> <br />While I enjoyed the story, I'm not sure I bought into the erotic \\"education\\" he received back in (repressed, Catholic, Victorian!) Ireland, but I suppose it's not out of the realm of possibility.  And I'm not fond of, shall we say \\"equestrian\\" metaphors for sex so every time he referred to \\"riding\\" or called her his \\"filly\\" I cringed a bit.  Those looking for an obvious building of affection may feel that their relationship was primary based on sex.  I also agree with another reviewer that \\"sweetheart\\" was way over used, though I loved that they used some Gaelic endearments (mo mhuirnin and mo cridhe) at the end.  Still, the woman can write some seriously erotic sex scenes that really are hot, hot, hot!  If you can take the heat and enjoy erotica with a capital E this story is for you!   <br /> <br />I think there may have been some subtle hints that stories about William's friend and business partner Morgan Evans and Viola's brother Hal Lindsay may be in the cards.  If so, I'll be in line to read them! <br /> <br />	2004-09-08
US	40354595	R1Y55L9J058XO7	0060575336	15349349	The Damsel in This Dress	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A cute story and a strong debut!	I came across this book on the Romance Reviews Today website (I've discovered quite a few good books there BTW) where they rated it a Perfect 10.  While I wouldn't go quite that far in praise of this book it is still an impressive debut.   <br /> <br />Betsy Tremaine is the editor of a small town newspaper in sleepy Port Henry, Washington.  She also occasionally writes book reviews for the paper and those she writes for the books by (what she figures to be old and crotchety) Seattle cop J. Soldier McKennitt are absolutely scathing.  Betsy is a smart, independent, nice woman with an hourglass figure who is reduced to feeling insignificant, overweight and unattractive in the present of her gorgeous, fashion-conscious, highly critical and insensitive mother.  Her father was diagnosed with schizophrenia and has been institutionalized for the past ten years.  And now it looks as if she is being stalked!  Late night hang-ups and now a nasty, threatening note have Betsy on edge.  Perhaps her trip to Seattle for a crime writers' conference will help her to relax.  Unfortunately for Betsy, it is not to be! <br /> <br />Jackson Soldier McKennitt has already decided that Elizabeth Tremaine is a dried up old spinster who wouldn't know a good book if it bit her!  His book sales and reviews from every other front prove that Ms Tremaine is in the minority, but her words still rankle.  His good mood is restored when he meets a luscious blonde at a writers' conference.  Man, is she ever gorgeous - all woman in all the right places!  But when he gets a look at her name tag he decides to have a little fun with his nemesis in a writing seminar and the resulting story they compose together is quite funny.  Soldier decides to put his annoyance at her reviews on the back burner when it becomes clear from several incidents that she is being stalked.  He goes into full detective mode, working to protect Betsy, find her stalker and somehow keep his hands off her!  He's vowed never to marry,especially after the death of his partner (over which he feels serious guilt).  He's witnessed the devastation the families of fallen cops go through and he will not put anyone through that. <br /> <br />So, it comes down to determining who is stalking Betsy, can Betsy overcome her self-esteem issues and can Soldier get past his unwillingness to involve himself in a serious relationship? On the plus side, I really liked both Betsy and Soldier and I thought the author presented several plausible possible candidates for the stalker until about the last quarter of the book when it started to become more obvious.  I think she's got a bright future in the light, suspense romance genre.  On the not-so-positive side, at times I found the humor a bit forced and some of the dialog on the silly, corny side.  She also introduced Soldier's also cop brother Taylor and Betsy's doctor best friend Claire and it looks like they will get a story - but if her website is correct, not until 2006!!!  That stinks, as Claire and Taylor had a nice chemistry in the scenes they had together.  Anyway, a solid debut effort and a book that I thoroughly enjoyed reading.	2004-09-06
US	40354595	R20OX1LYEE3K8U	0425196844	300331712	Jane's Warlord (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Very good read even with some flaws.	I didn't expect to love this book when I initially read about it.  I'm not a fan of time travel stories as a rule and come on - a talking timber wolf from the future?  But I was pleasantly, delightedly surprised to find myself not only enjoying the story and the steamy romance between Jane and Baran, but the character of Freika as well (he was quite funny!).  This is my first book by Angela Knight, but it won't be my last.  I've got THE FOREVER KISS (also getting great reviews!) on my TBR shelf and MASTER OF THE NIGHT in my shopping cart for October. <br /> <br />Baran Arvid is a genetically engineered warrior from 300 years in the future.  He and his partner, Freika, have been sent back in time to protect a reporter named Jane Colby from Druas, a serial killer from Baran's time who has been jumping through time committing horrendous, gruesome murders - and Jane is next on his list.  Until Druas makes his move, Baran vows to stick to Jane like glue.  Failure is not an option for Baran (he's got issues) and nothing short of Jane's survival and Druas' death will do.  All this up-close-and-personal time naturally prompts them to act on the serious sexual attraction between them.  And, wow is it ever hot!  Baran is absolutely deeelish! <br /> <br />I won't go into the plot any further, but suffice it to say that this is a steamy, action-packed, sometimes scary and often funny story that I really enjoyed.  Not being a huge sci-fi fan, I thought that I would be rolling my eyes at some stuff, but the author made it all work for me.  The time jumping, the ability of these future-ites to communicate telepathically, the internal computers that allowed Baran and Freika to reference data about life on earth in the 21st century was all pretty cool to me.  But it does have its flaws as other reviews have pointed out.  The question of why Jane is targeted by Druas is never really answered.  There's also Jane's speculation about what became of her mother who disappeared years ago which is never resolved.  And maybe it was just me, but I got a bit confused about the why of Druas' crimes and how they didn't cause paradoxes.  If it weren't for those issues this would be a solid 5 star read.  Even with flaws, a highly recommended read! <br />	2004-09-06
US	40354595	R3O4JHW7FRQVWH	184360888X	824493228	A Grand Passion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A new author to glom!  Sexy and sweet!	I first discovered this author when I was checking out the new ebook publisher loose-id.com and read the excerpt for her latest ICE MAN (which I wound up buying and which was terrific BTW) and it got me digging up other stories she's written.  I found A GRAND PASSION in paperback here at Amazon and snapped it up.  I really enjoyed this story! <br /> <br />Casey Hatter is a widow of two years who has moved to Italy (Turin) to study art and to start her life anew.  She cherishes her husband's memory and meeting a man is the last thing on her mind, but when her former boss, editor of a women's magazine, asks a favour she is hard-pressed to refuse.  The favour is to interview an Italian soccer star for a profile on international athletes.  Though she knows nothing about soccer and has never even seen a game, she agrees.  But when she meets Alessandro Sottini unexpected sparks fly (he's got gorgeous raven curls and mesmerizing amber eyes) and she finds herself agreeing to have dinner with him.  Little does she know what's in store for her as she has no idea how famous and popular he is in Turin! <br /> <br />Alessandro is immediately attracted to the blond-haired brown-eyed out-of-a-Botticelli-painting Casey.  In complete contrast to the various actresses and models his publicist usually sets him up with she's genuine and sweet and just plain nice.  A woman he wants to get to know and spend time with.  But it's easier said than done when Alessandro can barely go out in public without being mobbed by his fans and the papparazzi.  While he loves his fame and the lifestyle it affords him it's also lonely, isolating and at times superficial.  All of which makes Casey even more desirable and he is determined to have her in his life.  But Casey is not comfortable with life in a fishbowl or with the reaction of his fans to their relationship and when her former in-laws visit, even more complications arise.  But you'll root for this terrific couple to overcome all of there obstacles and have the happily ever after they deserve! <br /> <br />My only issue with the story was with Alessandro's passive attitude toward the actions of his fans and the press, but I guess there really is only so much one can do in that situation.  Anyway, I loved it and recommend it highly!	2004-09-05
US	40354595	R292KAPTCHH7C7	0373770014	178928466	Hot Stuff (Hot Zone, Book 1)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	An enjoyable read and a likeable couple	THE HEARTBREAKER is the only other book I had read by this author and while it was OK, I couldn't understand all the hype and hoo-ha that this author has received (though honestly, Kelly Ripa's endorsement would NEVER encourage me to buy anything - nor Oprah's for that matter!).  I could not believe that it (and several of her other books) came out in hardcover first - these books are not hardcover material!  Hardcovers are for the Stephen Ambroses, and Dickenses and Brontes of the world for Heaven's sake!  OK, now that my rant against hardcover romances is over, I will say that I enjoyed this book very much (much more than THE HEARTBREAKER). <br /> <br />This book is the first in a new trilogy centered on the Jordan sisters all of whom work for their uncle's sports agency/PR firm The Hot Zone.  The sisters are all on the PR side of the business and are very good at what they do.  They were orphaned as kids and were raised by their bachelor uncle Yank with a lot of help from his devoted office manager Lola (who's also in unrequited love with him).  One of Yank's former clients, an ex football star opening a lodge upstate, needs PR representation and wants to engage Yank's firm.  When her sisters all claim to be overloaded it falls to oldest Annabelle to take on this new client.  Annabelle knows that he is exactly the kind of guy who is dangerous to her.  He's a built, sexy jock and that type is always her downfall.  But she's also a professional and so she takes the job determined to guard her heart and keep her distance. <br /> <br />Brandon Vaughn's football career ended with a knee injury and while he was drugged up his (now ex) wife decided to dump The Hot Zone unbeknownst to Vaughn.  Now he is back in the office of the man whom he respects and admires more than his own father.  Yank was more than his agent, he was his friend, father-figure and the man who helped him overcome the biggest obstacle of his life - dyslexia.  But when he learns that Annabelle will beworking with him, he almost changes his mind.  She's stacked and sexy and he's not sure he'll be able to resist her, which is the last thing he wants.  He's just reconciled with Yank and he doesn't want to dishonor the man by jumping his niece's bones!  But work together they must especially since someone seems to be sabotaging the construction of the lodge and Vaughn needs to minimize the damage to hang onto the bookings he's received so far.  The lodge means more to Vaughn than money, as during the off-season, he intends to use it as a camp for kids with learning disabilities.  His altruism is not something he wants to broadcast - especially not the personal angle of his own struggles. <br /> <br />Of course Vaughn and Annabelle clash over how to handle the PR, they fight their growing strong attraction to one another and they are desperate to discover the source of the sabotage so that the lodge can open on time.  And along the way, they both discover that there is so much more to each of them than the other ever realized.  I liked both Annabelle and Vaughn and also enjoyed the rest of her family.  As with the author's Chandler brothers books, the secondary relationship of an older couple (Yank and Lola) will stretch across all three books and is enjoyable to watch.  An enjoyable story and I will likely check out the other two books in the series about sisters Sophie and Mickey when they come out.	2004-09-05
US	40354595	R3HFJ15J30WPZ5	0743466500	931268881	The Price of Pleasure	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Engaging adventure with a sensual and conflicted couple	I enjoyed the author's first book CAPTAIN OF ALL PLEASURES and looked forward to reading this story.  For some reason her hero, Grant Sutherland kept bringing to mind Damien Knight (without the shell-shock) from Gaelen Foley's LORD OF ICE (one of my fave books) in that both were stiff, formal men ruled by a strict code of honor.  Honor that is sorely tested by an unconventional, high spirited young woman - in this case castaway Victoria Dearbourne.<br />Second son Grant Sutherland has been a sea captain as well as acting as a stand-in for his elder brother Derek, the Earl of Stanhope, managing his estates for four years until his brother took up his responsibilities.  That experience has made Grant yearn for lands of his own, so when the elderly and heir-less Earl of Belmont offers his estate in payment for Grant leading an expedition to locate his long lost granddaughter, Grant accepts his offer.  Victoria, her parents and governess Camellia Scott were lost eight years ago in a shipwreck in the South Pacific.  Grant is determined to find her and bring her home and claim his reward in due time.  When he finally finds her, she is determined not to be caught (she doesn't know his true motives, now does she?) and, until she can figure it out, she leads him on a merry chase across the island eluding and frustrating him.  <br />Tori and her companion Cammie have survived by their wits for years and they do not trust this invasion of men into their isolated world.  Men have come to the island before after all, and not with the most honorable intentions.  While trying to decide whether to trust these newcomers or not, Tori sends them on a wild goose chase all over the island until Sutherland finally finds her and convinces her to come home with him.  On the journey home, Grant fights his attraction to her in the face of her determination to woo him!  But he's not made of stone and so he eventually gives in to his attraction to her considerable charms.  But Tori is having some difficulty adjusting to the restrictive life of a proper young Englishwoman and soon learns that she is not the biddable, proper kind of woman that Grant plans to take to wife.  She feels utterly betrayed and decides to move on with her life without Grant.  And eventhough all his friends and family think he is an idiot, he sticks to his conviction that Tori is not right for him.  But when the truth finally sinks in, can he win her back?<br />A nice story of opposites attracting and of a hero who has to finally set aside some long-held beliefs for love.  And Cammie has her own story line that will satisfy readers after all her suffering and adjustment to a proper life in England.  Nicole and Derek from COAP return in supporting roles here and wayward cousin Ian Traywick is introduced and will surely star in the author's next story.  An enjoyable read that I recommend to those looking for a good adventure story and for a couple that really has to work to be together.  Can't wait for Ian's story!	2004-07-18
US	40354595	R9Z9C6G63JSSA	0446613673	986628192	Charmed and Dangerous (Warner Forever)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A charming, wild and crazy adventure - perfect summer read!	I very much enjoyed Lori Wilde's prior Warner release LICENSE TO THRILL (I also recommend her Blaze story PACKED WITH PLEASURE), and while I enjoyed this one, it wasn't quite as terrific as LTT.  I found the first few chapters on the slow side, and it took me some time to warm up to Maddie and David (was this a sly wink to the old TV show MOONLIGHTING about bickering but attracted PI's with the same names?).  But after about the third or fourth chapter the pace picked up, the chemistry started to build and the adventure took off.<br />Maddie Cooper has always felt responsible for her twin sister Cassie - especially since a childhood incident nearly left Cassie dead.  Maddie has always seen herself as the responsible, levelheaded twin who needs to look out for her flighty, spontaneous twin - much to Cassie's annoyance!  In order to prove herself to her overprotective twin, Cassie agrees to assist FBI agent David Marshall in his investigation of her new boyfriend, who, David informs her, is an art thief that David has been after for years.  Her job at a museum and relationship with Peyton Shriver will allow David to set him up and finally put him behind bars.<br />David is driven to catch his thief and will do anything to win - even involve a civilian against his superior's orders.  Hey, whatever guilt he may feel will be absolved once Shriver is in prison, right?  But when Cassie and Shriver disappear, David is confronted by a furious Maddie who demands to be included in all aspects of the investigation over his strenuous objections and to his extreme annoyance.  When it is discovered that their prey have traveled to the Grand Caymans, Maddie insists on accompanying David and so begins a whirlwind, crazy adventure that takes them to Paris, Madrid, Monaco and Venice.<br />Along the way, Maddie and David bicker, thwart each other and eventually begin to fall for one another.  Finally Maddie and David become lovers and partners in this chase with David determined to gethis man and Maddie determined to prove her sister's innocence in any of this (innocence she knows David doubts).  Is Cassie an innocent hostage or is she a partner in crime?  Can two people at such cross-purposes find happiness together - if they survive their adventures?<br />A fun, light, perfect for summer read.  Though it did have a slow start, once the action picked up I enjoyed watching Maddie and David try to outwit each other and try to fight their mutual attraction.  Their romance is tumultuous, sexy and in the end, very romantic.  If you like a story that may not be totally realistic, but will take you on a wild and crazy ride, this may be for you!  I highly recommend it!  And BTW, we haven't heard the last of Cassie as she will be getting her own story, surely another wild adventure!	2004-07-16
US	40354595	R2INJS7RDYW5A7	0758205872	272508150	Catch Me If You Can	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Disappointingly lackluster	Having read the two prior novellas introducing the Morgan brothers I was looking forward to reading about eldest Tag who's reluctantly inherited everything when their abusive father dies.  As those who've read Jace's and Austin's stories know, the four Morgan brothers had a difficult time growing up and all left home as soon as they could, never looking back.  But eldest Tag has been given the task of settling the estate, though all he really wants to do is get back to the dig in Mexico on which he is an anthropologist.  But he discovers something he never expected in that his father had, in his last few years, purchased property in Scotland and had carried on a long distance correspondence with the property manager, one Maura Sinclair.   Tag reads the letters and becomes intrigued with this Maura and her obvious admiration and respect for his father (is this the same man he grew up with?).  He's fascinated by her and so the next thing he knows he's traveled to the Highlands in the dead of winter intent on meeting Maura and checking out the property.<br />Maura was born and raised in Ballantrae castle and, though it's practically falling down around her ears, she's determined to stay and refurbish it.  But her American partner, Taggart Morgan has died and his steady stream of cash has dried up.  She's tried bank loans and been turned down and now must face contacting Morgan's heirs to plead for their help.  But first she must survive being stranded in a snowstorm with an American stranger on a snowy Highland mountain road.  They engage in an uncharacteristic, no names exchanged, passionate one night stand that neither can forget.  What a shock when the next day her stranger arrives at Ballantrae claiming to be the new owner! <br />But from there the story sort of lost me a bit.  I have to agree with Janine Allen's review in that from here on out it's just a steady stream of inner thoughts and reflections, sexual encounters and not a whole lot else.  There's no realaction or serious conflict here nor is there much growth in either of these two people.   Ok maybe Tag learns to lighten up a bit, but that's about all.  And I'm not sure I bought into their immediate connection after one night of hot sex.  Especially when she was on the rebound from just catching her boyfriend in her bed with her best friend!  And maybe I missed it, but I don't think there was ever any real understanding of why his father bought the place to begin with, why he seemed to be a different man in his last few years, nor did it seem that Tag finally made peace with him in the end.  Anyway an okay, if a bit lackluster story with an angst-ridden hero, a likable heroine and some really nice sex scenes.	2004-07-15
US	40354595	R2V3MJ0W2BPFJL	0060514086	359862399	And the Bride Wore Plaid (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	2	13	16	N	N	Enjoyable on some levels, but not enough to recommend	For me Karen Hawkins is a consistently 3 star author and her stories are always light, amusing, sensual romps with pretty yummy heroes.  But I have to say I had a hard time liking Devon.  Here's a guy who stumbles onto our heroine (he thinks she's a maid) and pulls her into his bed intent on seduction.  But when he learns that she is, in fact, the sister of his host and supposed good friend, it doesn't stop him from continuing to pursue her for a strictly sexual and entirely temporary liaison!  Some friend.  Bad enough he's the type to tup the help, but the sister of a friend as well?  I guess the fact that she is the illegitimate half-sister of his friend makes her fair game?!<br />Anyway, this story just didn't work for me.  Devon, predictably fleeing from the curse of the Talisman Ring, travels to Scotland to visit his friend Viscount Strathmore but of course on the way discovers the ring in his carriage.  So in order to avoid the curse (legend says the bearer will meet his true love) he decides to avoid any and all women he is usually attracted to.  Kat MacDonald, Strathmore's half-sister lives and works (on her stained glass?!) in her house in the woods with her seven \\"giants\\" (a lame play on the Snow White theme).  She's not his usual type (delicate, elegant, fashionable) in that she is lush, buxom, independent and she's also been around the block with men like Devon.  So he decides she's perfect and he will beat the curse by seducing her.   Nice guy, huh?  Honestly, though he's charming and sexy, I also found him incredibly selfish and shallow!<br />Kat has met the likes of Devon St John before and it only brought her humiliation and heartbreak and her family scandal when she fell for a rake whose intentions were never honorable (hmmm, sounds a lot like Devon!).  She has no intention of doing so again, but, of course, Devon is dogged in his pursuit and she all too quickly succumbs.  How disappointing - I had higher hopes for Kat.  And while her brother prettymuch knows what's going on, he just lets it - what's up with that?  I'm glad that there's only one more book to this series as I think it's getting pretty tired.  The secondary storyline about Strathmore's marital problems didn't engage me at all and I really didn't see the point of her \\"seven giants\\", as they added nothing to the story.  Anyway I would only recommend this for hardcore fans and those, like me, who feel compelled to read all the books in the series (though I sometimes wonder why!).	2004-07-14
US	40354595	RGN0RICRGHTT3	0385338112	961067040	Slightly Dangerous (Balogh, Mary)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Slightly Disappointing but still enjoyable	It's interesting the difference in reviews for this book.  The \\"professional\\" review sites love it: Romantic Times 4  stars, All About Romance gave it an A (Desert Island Keeper), A Romance Review 5 stars, Romance Reviews Today Perfect 10 and The Romance Reader 5 stars.  But the actual reader reviews are split between \\"love it\\" and \\"disappointed\\".  I'm struggling with how I felt about the book myself.  I wasn't disappointed or let down per se, but I wasn't blown away or completely delighted by it either (like I really wanted to be!).  I enjoyed it, but it really was pretty much PRIDE AND PREJUDICE revisited as many of the reviews state.  Cold, aloof aristocratic gentleman meets unconventional, free-spirited, poor country gentry lass - and is appalled by her!  Like most of the readers of this series I've been a bit in love with, and certainly fascinated by Wulfric Bedwyn from his first appearance in A SUMMER TO REMEMBER and all through the \\"Slightly\\" series and wondered what kind of woman would thaw his seemingly cold heart. <br />As the story opens, Wulfric Bedwyn, Duke of Bewcastle finds himself uncharacteristically accepting an invitation to a two-week long house party in the country.  Having seen all his siblings happily married and settled in life he finds himself adrift and lonely since the death of his mistress several months past.  His intuition tells him that this party is a mistake and once he meets unrefined widow Mrs. Christine Derrick, his suspicions are confirmed.  She is forever getting herself into unladylike and embarrassing situations and he finds himself constantly coming to her rescue to save her from herself.  After each encounter he reminds himself that \\"Mrs. Derrick simply does not know how to behave\\" but he finds himself increasingly and reluctantly fascinated by her.  They have an uncharacteristic, passionate yet at the same time strangely cold encounter during a ball after which, Wulf asks her to become his mistress.  Of course she refusesand their already strained and tumultuous relationship becomes even more so.    They part and return to their separate lives but both find it hard forgetting the other.<br />Wulf finally cracks and invites her family to come to spend the Easter holiday at his family seat, Lindsey Hall - much to his sibling's shock and amusement!  There he attempts to get to know her better and for her to get to know him.  To see if there is really something strong and lasting between them or if this is simply a bizarre, passing fascination.  So, will these opposites find that they have more in common than they thought?<br />Bottom line, I enjoyed the story, but it did feel familiar.  My biggest criticism is that I didn't feel that I knew Wulf all that much better by the end of the story.  And I did find some of Christine's antics as embarrassing as Wulf did.  I also did not find as much chemistry between Wulf and Christine as I would have liked.  But it did do a nice job of wrapping up the series as we again visit with the full Bedwyn clan along with their various spouses and offspring.  This is not a great book, especially given the hype (not to mention the cynical and greedy issuing of this in hardcover first!), but it was enjoyable for me and I still recommend it, though looking back, I wish I'd waited for the paperback.	2004-07-12
US	40354595	R3FVBCVSO44L4U	0553584243	548159070	Moon in the Water	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Tender, poignant and terrific!	I'd never read anything by this author before, but the excellent reviews this book kept getting (both here at Amazon and on other review sites) made me want to read it.  And I'm glad I did!  Though I don't usually read Americana/Western stories, the setting is post-civil war St Louis.<br />Chase Hardesty is a riverboat pilot who dreams of one day becoming captain of his own boat.  It looks like his dream is about to come true when his employer offers him a deal: the captaincy of his newest, top of the line riverboat if Chase will marry his stepdaughter, Ann.  Chase is stunned, confused and very tempted to accept.  He agrees to meet Ann and discovers that she is obviously pregnant.  She begs Chase not to agree to her stepfather's plan and Chase agrees.  But later he has a change of heart and so Ann and Chase marry (much to Ann's displeasure).  <br />Ann has been betrayed by men before (including her stepfather and his malevolent son), but had thought that Chase was different.  Now married to him, she is reluctant to trust him or confide in him.  Given the circumstances, Chase cannot blame her, but feels deep down that he made the right decision for both of them.  He is determined to take care of Ann and raise her child as his own (he himself was adopted and raised in a large and loving family).  He feels that he cannot yet ask Ann about her pregnancy or who the father is, and on a certain level he feels that it is irrelevant.  She's his wife and the child she is carrying will be his.  Rather than stay in St Louis under her hated stepfather's roof, she stows away on his boat on a trip upriver.  Chase initially intends to send her back to St Louis ASAP, but as the trip progresses, they begin to open up to one another and a tender friendship begins to grow between them.  <br />But on the trip, Chase notices some suspicious behavior on the part of some of his crew and ultimately discovers that someone is using his boat to run guns to the Indians.  And while Chase struggles to find out who is responsible, he finds himself implicated and tangled in a web he could not foresee.  But Ann has come to know (and love) Chase and staunchly defends her husband.  Will Chase and Ann be able to prove Chase's innocence (and who is really behind it all)?  Can they live happily ever after once Ann's secrets are revealed?  You'll hope so!<br />I do have a few very minor criticisms.  Chase is not the sharpest guy around, but in a way, this is realistic as he was raised on the frontier without a formal education (though he works hard to read and educate himself).  And the reader will likely figure out who is the father of Ann's child fairly early on, but it takes Chase almost the entire book (though in fairness, as I mentioned, I don't think it really mattered to him).  And it may take some time to warm up to Ann in the beginning, though one can certainly sympathize with her plight.  I had no such problem with Chase.  He's sweet, kind and earnest, if a bit naive, and I really liked him a lot.  An enjoyable read and highly recommended.	2004-07-12
US	40354595	R2UJ4G32GZTXD6	0821775022	781557169	He Said Now (Gentleman's Club, Book 3)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Another nice addition to the series	This is my second book by this author, my first being the enjoyable HE SAID NO which came out in February.  This is actually the fourth in the Gentleman's Club series which started with short story LOVE LETTERS (from anthology CUPID CALLING), then continued in HE SAID YES and concluding with HE SAID NEVER coming this fall.   The series follows five titled friends in 1860's England and their various adventures in love.<br />William Fitch Minstead, the Earl of Ackerman has just received some shocking news.  He apparently fathered a child he never knew about, the result of an affair 10 years before when he was a young military man about to ship out to the Crimea.  The feisty yet alluring Miss Hilary Compton who has been acting as the child's guardian since the death of her mother delivers the news.  Fitch decides to meet and see this little girl for himself and travels to Miss Compton's home in Nottingham to see her for himself.  One look at little Lizzie confirms his parentage, as she is the image of his late mother.  Fitch is determined to be a part of his daughter's life and proposes a surprising arrangement: that he and Miss Compton marry so that Fitch can then adopt Lizzie as his daughter.  But Fitch makes it clear he wants more than the usual marriage of convenience.  He expects her to be his wife in every way, including providing him with an heir.<br />When Hilary undertook her mission to inform the earl of his child, she had fully expected him to be a rake and a scoundrel uninterested in his child.  Instead, she finds him to be kind, warm, witty and all too willing to have Lizzie in his life.  She has noted the attraction that swirls between them and wonders if a real marriage is possible.    She agrees to his proposal and soon finds herself in London, the new countess of Ackerman!  But as the days and weeks pass, her early optimism for a happy marriage begins to dim as Fitch persists in keeping a part of himself from her.  She knows his withdrawal has something to do with his war experiences, but he adamantly refuses to discuss it with her.  Her attempts to get closer to him just seem to make things worse until she begins to wonder if he wanted a real wife afterall.  Or did he just marry her to get his daughter and the rest was all talk?  As for Fitch, he wonders why Hilary can't just leave well enough alone.  She's got his protection, his name and his daughter - what more can she possibly want from him?<br />I really enjoyed this story and I liked Fitch a lot!  His relationship with his daughter was very cute and sweet and his relationship with Hilary was sensual and poignant.  I liked Hilary, but felt she pushed Fitch too hard too fast to share things with her he felt he could not.  But all in all a nice story that I recommend to others.  I'm looking forward to the next book which will be the rascally Viscount Rathbone's story.	2004-06-18
US	40354595	R14EU8GLON0VNG	0312992327	742859519	Public Displays of Affection	Books	4	19	19	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Not as great as her first two, but still good!	OK, there are some pretty unbelievable aspects to this book, but if you can get past those, you'll find a really enjoyable read.  Not as LOL funny as her prior books KNOCK ME OFF MY FEET and TAKE A CHANCE ON ME, this is really more sweet and poignant and I enjoyed it quite a bit.<br />Charlotte Tasker is a widow of eighteen months trying to keep her little family together without their much-loved dad.  Her two children, Matt and Henrietta (\\"Hank\\") are dealing with their dad's death in very different ways.  Charlotte loved her husband, but their sex life was never \\"all that\\".  Charlotte has never forgotten the man she had an anonymous tryst with 13 years ago before marrying and it was the best sex of her life.  In her loneliness, she still fantasizes about her dark stranger all these years later.  <br />Joe Bellacera never forgot the sweet and passionate redhead he foolishly let walk away from him 13 years ago.  He searched for her in vain and life moved on.  Now he is a DEA agent with a price on his head.  Until he can testify against a dangerous drug lord who has offered one million dollars for Joe's head, he will have to lay low in middle America under an assumed name and pretending to be a mystery writer.    He finds himself in suburban Minton, Ohio but when he gets a good look at the woman living right next door he is stunned to see \\"the one that got away\\"!  <br />Joe tries desperately to stay away from her and her kids fearing that getting involved with them will endanger them - he's still haunted by the murders of his partner and his partner's wife and young son.  But staying away is easier said than done and Joe is unable resist seeking out Charlotte and enjoying spending time with her kids.  They're everything he wants in his life and he decides to take a chance and grab for happiness.  But will they be safe with Joe in their life?<br />I just adored Joe!  He was so sweet and funny and kind.  Ms Donovan really has a flair for creating characters that are believable and that you can imagine coming across in real life.  The kids were also terrific characters, especially the adorably irrepressible Hank.  The only thing I did not care for was her \\"erotic poetry\\" - I found it awful, cringe inducing and after the first one or two I stopped reading them - ugh!  But Charlotte and Joe are a really great couple and, add in the kids and you get a really sweet family.  Another recommended read from Susan Donovan.  Can't wait for the next one!	2004-06-18
US	40354595	R8BZ933B9XDVU	0352338970	750376818	Cooking up a Storm	Books	3	26	32	N	N	Cooking up a nympho more like!	Ms Holly has recently been reissuing several of her earlier erotic stories, beginning with the terrific PERSONAL ASSETS.  I decided to check out this story as well, but I must say that I did not enjoy this one nearly as much as I did PA.  I'm no puritan, but I think casual sex can be taken too far!  One of the things I liked best about PERSONAL ASSETS was the relationship within each of the couples and the fact that there were feelings involved along with the sex.  But here I found next to no romance - just lots of gratuitous, incredibly casual sex under the guise of a woman \\"exploring her sexuality\\".<br />The book started out great!  Jaded Storm Dupre is a hot, sexy LA-based chef looking for a fresh start and new challenges.  A help-wanted ad for a chef to work in a small Cape Cod inn grabs his attention and soon he has uprooted his life and moved across the country intent on eventually buying out the inn's owner.  She is Abby Coates who is hanging onto the inn by a thread.  She hopes that the additional business a hotshot new chef will bring in will allow her to get the inn back on firm financial footing.  Abby has just ended her relationship with a longtime boyfriend with whom she had a less than satisfactory sex life.  Of course she and Storm are immediately attracted and she finds that sex with Storm has opened her eyes to lots of possibilities.  Unfortunately, from there things went downhill for me, as Abby proceeds to have sex with just about everyone in town!  Meanwhile the love-em-and-leave-em Storm begins to fall hard for her.  <br />But I have to say that toward the end I really disliked Abby (...)!  On the flip side, I began to like Storm more and more.  I would have liked this book much more if it had concentrated on Abby and Storm as a couple rather than Abby's sexual exploits.  And in the end, I have to say that I had no faith that their relationship would survive.  But that's just me.  For those who like erotica for it's own sake, this story may work.  It didn't for me.	2004-06-17
US	40354595	R241CKHZUYIND8	082177591X	548536256	Courting Trouble (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Another fun read from Ms St George	I guess I'm in the minority when I say that I think I liked this book better than the author's highly touted first THE IDEAL BRIDE.  And I think what I liked best about it was what many others didn't - our hero, August Warburton, Duke of St Fell.  I found him to be intelligent, witty, sly, irreverent, arrogant, sarcastic and mischievous and I thoroughly understood why Arabella was in love with him (`cause I was, too!).  Oh yes, he is totally full of himself, supremely self-confident and often aggravating, but I couldn't seem to stop liking him - the same problem Arabella has!<br />Arabella Swann is the daughter of a filthy rich merchant who wants to choose her own husband and marry for love; St Fell is an impoverish duke who needs to marry a fortune.  Unbeknownst to Arabella, St Fell and her father have made a deal for St Fell and Arabella to wed, but St Fell knows that Arabella must at least think it is her choice - and naturally, she'll choose him!  He's handsome, he's witty, he's a duke - what more could the girl want?  And when they meet, he is sure that she is smitten and just needs time to get used to the idea (he's not unaffected himself, but he'd never admit it!).  All goes well until St Fell unexpectedly finds himself with a rival for her hand, war hero and poet Lord Stonecroft.  Will all his machinations finally win her in the end?<br />OK, there were some unrealistic aspects to the story, but I still found it fun.  And, though it may not have come across as well as it should have, I felt that St Fell was playing his games not only for his own amusement, but because he really did care for her.  Afterall, she came to London for adventure and excitement, balls and parties and stolen kisses in \\"dark corners\\".  How could she be expected to just settle for the first man her father threw at her?  He wanted to make sure she had choices (though he's infuriatingly sure she'll eventually choose him!) and that she won't some day regret her choice.  Though he takes abit too long to declare his true feelings, I still preferred him to Gabriel Carr from TIB.  While Gabriel was a bit of a lovable dunderhead, St Fell was sophisticated, sexy and charming.  Arabella was a fun heroine who wanted to experience all that London life had to offer.  Though she tries hard to meet other eligible young men, she can't seem to ignore her reluctant, strong attraction to St Fell.  They are really two of a kind and very well suited for one another and St Fell seemed to realize this almost from the start.  If you don't like arrogant and cocky leading men, this is likely not a story you'll enjoy, but I did.  Not as LOL silly as TIB, nor is it without flaws, but still lots of fun!	2004-06-11
US	40354595	R18HXNIT357XXE	0060565411	391323981	A Dark Champion (Brotherhood of the Sword, Book 1)	Books	3	33	38	N	N	3 1/2 Stars - Nice romance, if you don't mind medieval-lite	These days I find myself not enjoying Ms MacGregor's books like I used to.  I found her last book, TAMING THE SCOTSMAN lacking in plot and characterization and though I liked this one a bit better, I still felt it lacked something.  As always comes up in reviews for most all of her books, her dialog is always too contemporary and, frankly if it weren't for references to jousting, castles, Saracens and Outremer, one would have no feel for the time period in which this story is set.  I also concur that there were a few too many subplots and secondary characters to try and keep track of.  I know that the author has done this to introduce characters that will populate future books, but it's a bit distracting and takes away from the basic story of Stryder and Rowena.  <br />Lady Rowena admires gentle, peace-loving troubadours who sing about love and abhors war-mongering knights.  Lord Stryder is one of those hated knights who happens to disdain anything to do with music.  Unfortunately for them, King Henry and Queen Eleanor want them to marry and have hatched a (kind of goofy) plot to bring these two together.  They start as adversaries but eventually they begin to see that neither is what the other believed.  The developing friendship and recognition that each was wrong about the other was enjoyable to watch and felt natural and believable.  Stryder is sexy and sweet and honorable and, in typical Kinley style, Rowena is spunky, forthright and beautiful.  The pair is likeable and their romance is sweet and enjoyable to watch, but all the background stuff does tend to get in the way.<br />Some other issues: journeys from the Middle East to England seem to take no time at all but we all know that given the time period, this would not be true.  And Rowena seemed to have way too much freedom for a woman of her day and would likely not be consorting with troubadours, much less plan to open a school for them (huh?!), in any medieval reality.  And I find it very unlikely that she would be able to read and speak Arabic!  But I did like that Stryder could not read as it exposed one of his vulnerabilities and afforded some sweet moments between the two.  On the other hand, the way that all of the women (except Rowena, of course) react to super-hunk Stryder like love starved teens, chasing him around a la The Beatles in A HARD DAY'S NIGHT was a tad ridiculous!<br />I know that Ms MacGregor has very loyal fans who will disagree with me when I say that this is just an OK read - enjoyable (if one can overlook the anachronistic aspects) but not a story I will remember for weeks to come.  This author has and can do better.  If you're a stickler for historical accuracy and context, this author is not for you.  If you are looking for a nice romance with medieval wallpaper this may suit.  My recommendation for a really great medieval is Kathleen E Woodiwiss' THE WOLF AND THE DOVE a story that will truly transport you to post-Hastings England with a heroine you can admire and a hero you'll grow to love - just as the heroine does!	2004-05-19
US	40354595	R1ANDJOMYIT4UX	0843952806	303161563	The Pirate Hunter	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Intense story of revenge and second chances at love	My first book by this author was prior book THE PIRATE NEXT DOOR (which I very much enjoyed) where we first met brooding pirate hunter James Ardmore.  James is a driven pirate hunter who has also angered the British Royal Navy by attacking their ships and setting free pressed American sailors.  He is considered an outlaw in England and a hero in his native America (Charleston, SC to be specific) but he will not rest until he has killed pirate Black Jack Mallory, the man who killed James' brother and his family.  While extricating an American spy from an English house party the previous year, he stumbled onto Lady Diana Worthing whose father knows Black Jack.  James abducts her thinking she may know something of value about where Jack is but during their stormy two-day encounter he determines that 1.) She knows nothing about Black Jack, 2.) She's a spitfire who is not easily cowed and 3.) He's extremely attracted to her and senses the feeling is mutual (they share one steamy kiss!).  After asking her to come away with him (she refuses) he lets her return to her husband and her life.<br />Unfortunately, Diana's life is miserable, trapped in a marriage to a man who detests her, thinks she cheats on him and who is ashamed of his own daughter who is deaf.  She is also carrying guilt for her daughter Isabeau's hearing loss as a result of a childhood illness.  If not for Isabeau, Diana may well have run away with James, but she could not leave her daughter behind to the mercy of an indifferent father.  Now, a year later, she is a widow and living with her father on a private island off the English coast when she and Isabeau discover James Ardmore washed up on the beach!<br />James and Diana quickly discover that they are no less attracted to one another than they were last year, but neither is particularly happy about it.  James is determined to have his revenge on Black Jack - even if it means Diana and her father are caught in the cross-fire - and Diana is just as determined to keep her father's secrets and her daughter safe.  Their relationship is stormy and tumultuous with sparks both verbal and sexual igniting regularly.  Diana is a woman who loved once when she was young and stupid who is now smarter and a little embittered at what life as thrown her way.  James is emotionally dead inside since the death of his brother and his estrangement from his sister, Honoria.  The only thing keeping him going is revenge.  But when these two begin to fall for one another, it changes everything.  Will James decide that love is sweeter than revenge?  Will Diana find that the right man can restore her faith in love?  I must say that this is one intense couple!  No lighthearted romance for these two.  But I enjoyed James' character very much - intense, introspective, self-contained but with a sardonic sense of humour - though he was a touch too proud and uncommunicative sometimes.  Though I admired Diana's backbone and dedication to Isabeau, at times I found her a touch waspish, though given her experiences with her husband, I suppose allowances should be made.  <br />If you read THE PIRATE NEXT DOOR, do not expect the same tone here.  Whereas Grayson (from TPND) was easy-going and witty and the tone of that story relatively light, I found this story more serious and brooding (not exactly \\"yo ho ho\\" as another review states), reflecting both James and Diana's characters (though it's not without some humour).  I enjoyed both stories and look forward to Honoria's coming in early 2005.	2004-05-19
US	40354595	RV4W0L4PDL5IM	0758208022	485004309	The Royal Treatment (Alaskan Royal Family, Book 1)	Books	4	45	49	N	N	4 1/2 *s  a LOL funny, sassy (...) read!	I love MJD's stories and I enjoyed this one as well, but I am a bit concerned that her heroines are becoming a bit of caricature.  As with UNDEAD & UNWED, we have another smart aleck, foul-mouthed sarcastic heroine as Christina is very similar to Betsy (from U&U).  Though I enjoy these spirited, tough chicks, they're best in small doses and having Betsy and Christina's stories follow so closely to one another, I was sort of on sassy chick overload by the time I finished this book.  Don't get me wrong, I liked Christina and did recognize that deep down, WAY deep down inside her she had a heart of gold, it was just that her surface was so sharp and brittle.  I would have liked to see a bit more softness in her and less of the sharp elbows (or should I say tongue!).  But that said, this story was still a hoot!<br />Wiseguy Christina fits in perfectly with the off-kilter, wacky and unconventional Alaskan Royals!  King Alexander is known to sport an \\"I'M THE KING - WHO THE HELL ARE YOU?\\" t-shirt, recline in a lazy-boy in his office and captain a fishing boat incognito (but he's frustrated that he is almost always recognized!).  On one such fishing excursion, he meets Christina who's just lost her job as a cook on a cruise ship.  With no money and no where to go, \\"Al\\" offers to let her stay at his place (she doesn't realize who he is at first).  She takes him up on his offer only to discover that he's matchmaking for his reserved, penguin-obsessed son, Crown Prince David.  David is about the only calm, sane member of the family and Al thinks Christina is just what he needs.  She's cute, smart and will make a tough, no-nonsense queen that David can depend on when the time comes.  David, being a prince, has never had to work hard to be with women - they usually throw themselves at him - and he shows no interest in who he marries figuring any woman will do as long as she's healthy enough to give him an heir.  But Christina is different and lets him know that he's a little deficient in the romance department.   He finds he likes her very much and tries to woo her (he's real cute) eventually winning her over.  And so the orphaned American commoner Christina (the \\"e\\" is silent!) Krabbe agrees to marry Crown Prince David!<br />From there we watch in amusement as they make royal wedding plans, meet for pre-marital counseling, deal with an ex-boyfriend of Christina's, a family feud over youngest Prince Nicholas, attempted abductions and a life and death struggle for a member of the family.  All the while Christina and David grow closer and the staff become used to her unique style.  There are some great secondary characters - the whole royal family, the king's right hand man Edmund, Christina's ex Kurt, therapist Dr Pohl and PR rep Jenny.  There's enough raw material here for more stories about the Alaskan royals, though I have no idea if that's the plan.  If you're looking for a fun, fast read and don't mind swearing and snarkiness, you'll probably like this book as much as I did!	2004-05-06
US	40354595	R1CZIPFZQW88Y0	1586970771	806932760	Love Lies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Perhaps not for everyone, but I loved it.  Touching, Funny	MaryJanice Davidson is one of my favourite authors - I just love her creative stories, her quirky characters and sense of humour.  LOVE LIES is an unusual mix of funny and heartbreaking and I enjoyed it very much.  Victor Lawrence is a wealthy lawyer who meets quirky Ashley Lorentz while visiting a psychiatric hospital that he endows.   He initially thinks that she is a patient but finds himself attracted to her anyway.  She's sassy, funny and quick and she is entirely unimpressed by Victor and his millions - he's never met anyone quite like her before.  Victor is divorced from his cold, witch of a first wife who never really loved Victor and certainly never wanted kids (Victor desperately does).  Ashley is the exact opposite of Crystal - warm, funny and looking forward to children someday (she never knew her own parents, growing up in foster care). Though she doesn't show it outwardly, Ashley is indeed impressed with Victor - he's gorgeous, witty, urbane - could he possibly be interested in a nobody like her? Once Victor determines that Ashley is not a patient, but a journalist who visits her friend Jeannie at the hospital, they begin seeing each other meeting for lunches and dinners and quickly falling hard for one another (they're so cute together!).  <br />While working out with his Aikido partner Derik, Victor receives a blow to the head and a concussion.  Ashley offers to stay the night with him to take care of him and ensure that his condition doesn't worsen.  During the night, Victor initiates sex with Ashley and she is slightly willing (though they had not yet gotten that far in their relationship) until she realizes that he is feverish and calling her by his ex-wife's name.  Unfortunately he is so out of it she cannot get him to stop.  Ashley is devastated; Victor remembers nothing.  But he knows something is wrong when Ashley suddenly disappears from his life.  Once Victor realizes what happened that fateful night, he is as desperate to get Ashley back asshe is to avoid him.  But when he discovers that she is pregnant he bluffs (some might say bullies or blackmails) her into marrying him so that he can keep her close while he tries to win her back.  He tries everything to regain her love and trust but Ashley is still emotionally (and physically) wary of him and keeps him at a distance.  She still loves and desires him but feels that she shouldn't after what happened (she should hate him - right?).  Meanwhile, they prepare for the birth of their child (which both are thrilled about) and adjust to sharing a home and being married.  Can Victor win her back?  Can Ashley forgive him and put the past behind her?<br />Though other reviews have used the \\"R\\" word (rape) to describe what happened, I can't call it that.  He was, afterall out of his head at the time.  There was no desire to hurt her on his part and his remorse and guilt afterwards were strong.  But at the same time, one can sympathize with Ashley's confusion and emotional turmoil.  I think I would have forgiven Victor sooner  than Ashley (he's just so sweet - almost too good to be true!)- she hangs onto her resentment just a touch too long for me given what happened.  The relationship between Victor and Ashley is really enjoyable to watch as he tries to give her everything (even things she doesn't want!) to win her while she tries valiantly not to take them.  And I loved their word play back and forth - very snappy and funny (it cracked me up when Ashley decided to hyphenate her last name making her Ashley Lorentz-Lawrence!).  A very sweet and poignant and funny read and very highly recommended!	2004-05-05
US	40354595	R1EOSQMNINLAW0	0821775901	98876462	The Ideal Bride (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	4 1/2 *s  A great first book full of fun and wit	I had heard so many good things about this first book by Nonnie St George that I just had to read it - especially with her second book COURTING TROUBLE just out.  What a fun book!  It's a traditional regency with a screwball comedy twist.  I could just picture Cary Grant as Gabriel and Katherine Hepburn as Nola a la BRINGING UP BABY (a 1930's screwball comedy).  Such fun - and Gabriel's mother was an absolute hoot!<br />Handsome, precise, fastidious Gabriel Carr has decided that he will marry before his thirtieth birthday and so has created a list of criteria for the ideal bride.  While his family and friends all scoff at the notion of his list, Gabriel feels that it is perfectly sound and reasonable to know what you want when making such a momentous decision.  At the top of his list is the requirement that her family be from the merchant class so that she will understand his preoccupation with business and necessity to stay in London (no foolish aristocratic Miss for him!).<br />But he meets instead Lady Nola Grenvale, daughter of an earl, and it seems every time he is in her company, some disaster befalls him or he loses his cool.  She is doggedly pursuing him, not for himself, but for his warehouse, which she proposes to turn into a bazaar from which war widows can sell their wares to better support themselves.  Now, Gabriel is known as one of the most handsome men in London with his dark hair and blue eyes and chiseled features.  He plays down his looks purposely, but is still annoyed that Lady Nola seems to be impervious to his charms.  Or so he thinks!  Lady Nola is all too aware of his handsome face and muscular build but she's determined he'll never know it!  He's so pig-headed that he refuses to see that the bazaar could be a sound and profitable venture.  But Nola (along with his naughty mother!) is not about to give up and when he injures his ankle and must rely on Nola to assist him in taking care of business, new respect as well as a strong attraction,begin to take root on both sides.  But what about that list?  Lady Nola doesn't exactly fit his criteria, after all . . .<br />A very enjoyable read and a new author to keep an eye on!  I would have rated this 5 stars, but I felt Gabriel's desire to salvage his pride about the validity of his list was a bit too much and a bit annoying.  But I loved the running joke of Gabriel asking various friends and acquaintances \\"you know Lady Nola?\\"  which was invariably answered with \\"Of course!  Everyone does - she helps the helpless widows!\\"  Too funny!	2004-05-04
US	40354595	R31Y37TNFZ1H5W	0060560789	244897573	Your Wicked Ways (Duchess in Love)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	If you don't mind a not so likable leading man . . .	The last of the DUCHESS IN LOVE sequels is the story of Helene and her estranged husband Rees, Earl of Godwin.  Helene desperately wants a child but given the fact that she and her husband have lived apart for years, she has no hope of conceiving one.  She decides to brave scandal and ask Rees for a divorce - which he flatly refuses to give her.  She then decides that she'll just take a lover and get her child that way - serve Rees right!  She basically gets a makeover, cutting her hair and dressing more fashionably and daringly the better to lure a potential lover.  And attract men she does - most particularly the Earl of Mayne who becomes infatuated with the new Helene.  But Rees discovers what she's up to and thwarts her plans by stating that if she wants a child, she'll have to have it with him.  They agree to a secret one-month reunion in order to make a baby.  What an eventful month it is!<br />We also meet Rees' estranged brother Tom (notice how Rees is estranged from everyone in his life?) who happens to be a vicar, and Rees' mistress Lina, an opera singer whose only real remaining appeal for opera composer Rees is her voice (they stopped being lovers months ago).  Lina is not a \\"fallen woman\\" per se.  She truly fell in love with Rees (he fell in love with her voice) but has become disenchanted with him and now has nowhere else to go.  Besides, Rees has promised her the lead in his new opera so she continues to live in his house.  But we can see the budding attraction between Tom and Lina.  While Tom and Lina are sweet and likable characters, I have to say that Rees just may be the most selfish leading man I have ever read!  What's weird is that I found myself liking him a bit anyway - just as everyone in his life does!  He occasionally displayed that \\"little boy lost\\" quality, though I think the author could have made him a bit more likeable.  He's a lousy lover who has never learned how to give a woman pleasure in bed (the reason that his marriage to Helene fell apart).  But when he and Helene reunite for baby-making purposes he does try to make it good for her to avoid the mistakes of their first times together - and he does improve as the story progresses!  But I can imagine that many readers will find no redeeming qualities in Rees and that's a shame and a big fault with this story.  He never really acknowledges the changes in Helene, though I suppose you are supposed to get that he has loved her for herself all along?  Anyway, I think you get the gist of how this ends but not until the epilogue do we finally see the kinder, gentler, less self-involved Rees.  Though not a great book, I enjoyed it despite the failings of Rees' character.  One question, though: What happened to Carola?  I thought all four of the friends would make an appearance in this last DIL sequel and was a bit surprised that she was not even mentioned.   <br />I have a feeling that we will be seeing the Earl of Mayne (one of Helene's suitors) in a story of his own someday.  His character received quite a bit of development for a secondary player.  If so, I look forward to it because he was really sexy!	2004-05-04
US	40354595	R3589PCAX8ULRO	1843607247	785689212	Tempting the Beast (Feline Breeds, Book 1)	Books	5	108	114	N	N	Not gonna break the 5 star roll!  Hot and exciting!	I'm not what you'd call a huge fan of paranormal stories - I don't go out of my way for vampires, shapeshifters, Carpathians or immortals - but every once in a while I indulge (mainly MaryJanice Davidson's wacky, sexy vamps and werewolves).  If I gotta read this sort of story I prefer it to have some relationship to a possible reality.  I always liked the show DARK ANGEL before it got canceled about genetically engineered soldiers created in secret labs in the not so distant future.  Well Lora Leigh's \\"Breed\\" series are very much in that vein (but much more erotic!!).  In Ms. Leigh's stories, a shadowy, ruthless, degenerate group called \\"The Council\\" operates secret labs where they do genetic experiments with the mission of creating ruthless and disposable soldiers.  Their creations are part human and part animal due to the animal DNA used to create them for specific purposes.  There are two \\"Breed\\" series (so far): one with feline DNA and one with wolf DNA.  TEMPTING THE BEAST is the first book in the Feline Breeds series and it's a great read.  BTW, her Wolf Breed stories are all ebooks (no pb releases so far) and are not available at Amazon (...)and so far I've read short story WOLF'S HOPE (the first in the series) and her most recent, ELIZABETH'S WOLF (which was awesome!).<br />Reporter Merinus Tyler wants to expose the Council for the disgrace they are, feeling that if the American public knew what they were doing, they would be outraged and take the \\"Breeds\\" to their hearts.  Callan Lyons, one of the few breeds ever to escape the Council is not so sure.  He's survived by his cunning and animal instincts and the last thing he wants is a reporter snooping around and exposing him (and his pride) to danger.  But he is unusually attracted to the spunky Merinus and though he tries to stay away from her, he eventually gives in to his attraction and kisses her.  That kiss starts a \\"mating frenzy\\" that neither can fight and Callan must face the fact that Merinus is hismate.  But how is he to keep her (and his pride) safe from the assassins that the Council regularly sends to kill him?  If Merinus should fall into their hands (especially if she were pregnant), she would become no more than another experiment to them, her life no longer worth living.  How can he keep them all safe?  Is Merinus right - is the best thing to come into the glare of the public spotlight and try to live as close to a normal life as possible?  Merinus's father, seven brothers and senator uncle are all willing to help, so has the time arrived to \\"hide in plain sight\\"?  Will they ever really be safe from the Council?<br />Lora Leigh writes several different types of erotica, some of which I'm not particularly interested in (3-ways, bondage, etc), but I do enjoy these Breed Series stories.  The males are uber alpha with their animal instincts, heightened senses and hot looks.  Her heroines have to be strong with lots of backbone to keep from being totally dominated by these males.  And the sex is hot with the animal DNA adding some really interesting aspects into the mix!  Definitely not for the faint of heart, but for those who enjoy this type of story highly recommended!<br />Second in the Feline Breeds series is THE MAN WITHIN about fellow breed Tabor and forthcoming will be KISS OF HEAT about Merinus' brother Kane and Callan's breed \\"sister\\" Sherra (there's a history between these two and a sexual tension you can't ignore - can't wait for that one!).  And I can't say enough about how great ELIZABETH'S WOLF was (since I can't review it here!) but check it out!!	2004-05-04
US	40354595	R1OTE4LOAXM7QL	0312983492	973796554	Don't Tempt Me (Pearl Island Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Have to concur - weakest of the trilogy	I've enjoyed all of Ms Ortolon's books and was really looking forward to this one, but I find myself disappointed.  If you read the first two books, FALLING FOR YOU and LEAD ME ON, you're familiar with the St Claire siblings and their (haunted) Pearl Island Inn.  Oldest Adrian is the chef at the inn and Jackie Taylor captains her own ship for pleasure cruises.  Adrian and his sisters approach Jackie about doing a monthly cruise to their inn - both would profit from such a partnership.  But Jackie is initially reluctant because of her past and her father who was a swindler, a ciminal and plunderer of sunken ships.  She's especially reluctant when they tell her they want to excavate the shipwreck in their cove to locate an artifact based on a letter Jackie inherited (she's descended from Captain Jack).  Jackie is worried that her tainted past will again resurface and that the taint will spread to the St Claires thus threatening their budding partnership.  And she can't afford that on two fronts:  she needs the money desperately and she has come to really adore the St Claire family.  She longs for a family to love and support her but her doubts hold her back.  Even when Adrian makes it clear that he's interested in her - and not in a business sort of way!<br />But I have to say, I was never quite sure what attracted Adrian to Jackie in the first place or why he put up with so much emotional angst from her.  I found it difficult to like Jackie very much eventhough I understood her remorse for her past life with her irresponsible father and absent mother and her pessimism that life was bound to always throw her hard knocks, but come on, Adrian offered her the best of life and time and again, she rejected it!  And I could have done with a little less time spent on the ghosts of Marguerite and Jack and the excavation of Jack's ship - I found myself doing a lot of skimming around those sections.  <br />So what did I like?  Adrian is sweet and sexy and I enjoyed his character.  I also liked the celebrity that unexpectedly comes his way and the complications that created.  And of course, there's that nice St Claire family dynamic that worked so well in all three of these stories.  I'm not sure, though that this one stands on it's own.  It may be best to read all three to fully follow some of the Marguerite/Jack stuff.  But then again, she did spend a lot of time rehashing their story which, again, I skimmed over.  Anyway, an okay read with a few problems and a really sexy leading man.  She's starting a new trilogy of stories that will debut in Summer 2005.	2004-04-20
US	40354595	R2MUXE6SEXFAU3	0743470036	899097231	A Deal With the Devil	Books	4	21	22	N	N	4 1/2 Stars - Another enjoyable Carlyle read	Giles Lorimer, Earl of Walrafen, lives for politics and London life.  He's avoided his childhood home, Cardow Castle, for years because of the sad memories it holds.  His disabled, war hero Uncle Elias lives at Cardow and three years ago hired a housekeeper, Mrs. Montford, who plagues Giles with updates, questions, requests and harangues on the running of the estate.  Letters Giles never answers, but that he strangely both dreads and looks forward to.  On the one hand, he wants nothing to do with Cardow - it could crumb to the ground for all he cares - so the letters induce a measure of guilt in him for his benign neglect of the estate and his tenants about which she regularly berates him.  On the other hand, her letters are also a source of amusement and Giles takes a strange kind of pleasure in her missives.  She's obviously competent, efficient, intelligent and witty and he finds himself wondering about her.  Well, he will finally meet her when word comes that Uncle Elias has been murdered and Giles must return to Cardow.<br />Aubrey Montford is, of course, not what she seems.  But she has gratefully embraced her role as housekeeper in the remote castle.  She and little five-year-old Iain have lived happily at Cardow, but Aubrey knows that with Elias' death everything has changed.  Her place at Cardow is not so certain now and she frets for her and Iain's futures.  Unfortunately, the arrival of the neglectful earl only prompts her temper and sharp tongue, which she can't seem to keep in check.  Due to his neglect an unstable tower she had written to Giles about repeatedly collapsed resulting in several injuries - including to Iain.  Between this and all the other letters he never bothered to answer or issues he never addressed, she has little respect for the lord of the manor.  But that doesn't mean that she hasn't noticed how handsome his is with his dark hair and silver-gray eyes.<br />While Giles reprimands her for her impertinence he cannot fault her for feelings that are, on the whole, justified.  He sees all the improvements and positive changes that Aubrey has made at Cardow and he is impressed to say the least.  He is also incredibly, surprisingly attracted to the confident, poised, green-eyed, auburn haired beauty hiding behind the plain housekeeper garb.  Yes, there is definitely more here than meets the eye!  But when the circumstances surrounding Elias' death seem to point to Aubrey, Giles doesn't believe it and calls in his old friends Max DeRohan and George Kemble to investigate - both the crime and Aubrey.  Meanwhile an attraction between Giles and Aubrey begins to grow.  Aubrey begins to see another side to Giles that contradicts her original opinion of him.  He's kind, gentle, sweet and, though she can't afford to become involved with him, Giles finally breaks through Aubrey's defenses.  But given his suspicions and questions about the person Aubrey really is and the fact that she is suspected of murder, can there be a future for these two?<br />I really enjoyed this story, but have to agree it's not quite as good as some of Ms Carlyle's other works.  The mysteries of Elias' death as well as the truth about Aubrey and Iain's backgrounds are well done and keep one turning the pages.  Giles is a bit different from most of the author's other heroes.  He's more sensitive, less intense and rogue-ish but he is definitely used to getting what he wants.  I also felt, as other reviewers did, that his initial pushing Aubrey to sleep with him when she was obviously reluctant was a tiny bit troubling.     But Giles and Aubrey ultimately made a sweet couple, his relationship with little Iain was cute and it was fun to catch up with old friends like David and Cecilia (from A WOMAN OF VIRTUE) as well as Max (AWOV &amp; NO TRUE GENTLEMAN) and Kem (he's seen in almost all of her books!).  Highly recommended!	2004-03-15
US	40354595	R1PUG3VEV4HR59	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	5	77	83	N	N	Ms Davidson does it again!  Another creative and fun read!	I first discovered MaryJanice Davison last year when I read and really enjoyed BY ANY ANOTHER NAME.  I then was on the lookout for any and all stories by this talented author and read THIEF OF HEARTS and short story collection UNDER COVER all fun and sexy contemporary romances.  She's incredibly creative and has also written shapeshifter romantica (CANIS ROYAL) and even young adult stuff (TEEN FURIES).  UNDEAD AND UNWED (first released as an ebook in 6/02) is a fun and creative spin on the vampire sub-genre and is really almost parody.<br />What would happen if, say Cher from CLUELESS woke to find herself a vampire?  Elizabeth \\"Betsy\\" Taylor is a fashion (especially shoe) obsessed former model who just got laid off from her thankless secretarial job and then is hit by a car and killed - all on her birthday!  She wakes in a funeral home and it doesn't take much to figure out that she's not alive but not quite dead either.  Being a zombie is NOT and option, but when her several attempts to finish herself off fail, and a weird thirst for blood (eeww!) asserts itself, she has to face it - she's a vampire!<br />Its just hysterical watching Betsy adjust to her new vampire lifestyle and powers.  But there are some ways in which the usual vampire rules don't apply to Betsy.  She can still enter churches, crosses and holy water don't bother her and sunlight is not fatal.  What's up with that?  Her unique abilities bring her before head vamp Nostro who's determined to bring her under his control.  And when sexy \\"tall, dark and sinister\\" Eric Sinclair offers to become her vamp mentor are his motives good or evil?  Betsy is not sure, nor is she interested in getting involved in \\"vamp politics\\", she just wants to be left alone.  Sinclair is frustrated by her too human compassion, her self absorption and her immaturity, all of which just highlights her need for guidance from the right quarter - he's also very attracted to her.  When she's told that she's the prophesied \\"vampire queen\\" it's way too much!  She's only been a vampire for a week for heaven's sake!  Things become more dangerous when Sinclair asks her to join forces with him against Nostro.  She resists until he makes an offer she cannot refuse: her support for designer shoes!  The vampire world is in for some changes, baby!<br />Ms Davidson will continue with these characters when UNDEAD AND UNEMPLOYED comes out 8/04.  Betsy still needs to find job and also figure out her new place in the vampire world.  Sinclair still has a ways to go in proving himself to Betsy.  And then there's detective Nick Barry - did he really forget his vampiric experiences?   A really fun read that is very highly recommended!!  Also look for THE ROYAL TREATMENT an alternative reality erotic romance coming 5/04.	2004-03-10
US	40354595	R31ZX8QFZB8BK7	042519406X	580166595	The Wicked Lover	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Lush, sensuous and wonderful!	She's not for everyone, but I just love Julia Ross' books!  This is a sensual, complex, beautifully written story of revenge, intrigue and romance with two likable and compelling lead characters.  Most particularly Robert Sinclair Dovenby who made his first appearance in Ms Ross' wonderful prior book THE SEDUCTION.  <br />Known as \\"The Dove\\" in London Society, Robert is by no means an aristocrat and has only become the darling of society through his well-liked and powerful mistress Lady Grenham and his association with the late Lord Edward Vane (from THE SEDUCTION), brother of the powerful Duke of Yveshire.  \\"Dove\\" is highly intelligent, handsome, charming and wickedly sensual.  But when he arrives home one day to find his mistress very publicly dropping him and then a young woman with her manservant tied up in his bedroom, Dove knows with certain dread that trouble is afoot.  The young man explains that he and the young lady were simply attempting to steal one of his cravats to win a wager when Lady Grenham discovered them and jumped to the conclusion that Dove was cheating on her.  Dove knows instinctively that there is more to this story - and more to this young man who calls himself George White.  In order to get to the bottom of things he compels George to work for him as his secretary confident that he will soon discover who George really is and what he was doing poking around Dove's home.<br />George White is actually Sylvie Georgiana, the Countess of Montevrain, who has worked for the Duke of Yveshire for years as a spy in France.  She has now returned to her homeland of England in order to uncover Dove's (possibly illegal) covert activities and hopefully ruin him.   For the Duke of Yveshire is convinced that Dove ruined his younger brother Edward and as a result is responsible for his death.  Becoming Dove's secretary is the perfect cover for Sylvie as she will be privy to his papers, finances and movements.  What she does not count on is her almost immediate attraction to him.  She's spied on many men, even slept with some when necessary, but none has ever affected her like Dove.  His every word and movement seems to drip with sensuality, charm and intelligence and try as she might, Sylvie is hard pressed to resist him.  Only her disguise as a man is protecting her from his seduction.<br />But what poor Sylvie does not realize is that Dove has been on to her from the very beginning!  He's known that she is really a woman from day one and he is purposely seducing her in a way the she does not even realize.  As George, she is able to experience the freedom of being a man - sleigh races, ice skating on the Thames, coffeehouses and pubs.  She almost wishes she could remain George White forever, but it is not to be.  For the seduction has not all been one-sided and, uncomfortable with the notion that he may have fallen for an enemy, Dove finally admits that he knows her secret and demands to know for whom she is working and why.  The moment of truth has come - what will Sylvie do?  The duke is not only her employer, he's her friend; and now she cannot reconcile the duke's claims about Dove with the kind, gentle man she has come to know - and love.  What really is the truth?<br />Such a wonderful tale with an unmistakable undercurrent of eroticism that makes such things as Dove teaching her how to bow properly, take snuff and throw like a man exercises in seduction.  He's absolutely yummy and you see how a seasoned pro like Sylvie could fall under his spell!  But the eroticism is subtle and stylish, so if you're a fan of Stephanie Laurens and her ilk for example, this book is probably not for you!  And the weather of a London winter is almost a character here with the author making use of snow, slush, cold rain and fog beautifully.  I've read all of Ms Ross' books and a couple that she wrote under Jean Ross-Ewing and have enjoyed every one.  For me, she just never disappoints (though it would have been nice to have had some mention of Alden and Juliet from THE SEDUCTION as they were also involved with Lord Edward Vane!).  Very highly recommended!	2004-03-05
US	40354595	R1F4OF439ROPN5	0425194574	188673615	Fair Play (New York Blades)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Michael is adorable  . . .  Theresa, not so much!	Whether or not you will like this book will largely depend on how you feel about the lead female character Theresa Falconetti.  Many will dislike her (and many did judging by some of the reviews) and wonder what Michael sees in her.  Though I did not dislike her, I'm not sure I can say I liked her either.  I did understand her, however.  She's a woman who wants more out of life than what she perceives other women of her background have or strive to have.  I've known people like her who on some level are ashamed of and/or don't fully appreciate their family and look at life on a very superficial level.  Basically, these people just need to grow up and discover what's really important.  This book is Theresa's often-painful journey to that discovery, which sometimes overshadows the romance.<br />Theresa grew up Italian in Brooklyn.  She hates all the stereotypical aspects of this life and longs to be a part of the more cosmopolitan, cultured world of Manhattan.  She dreams of marrying a rich WASP professional - not an Italian, alpha male \\"goomba\\" from the old neighborhood.  And that's how she (wrongly) sees NY Blades hometown boy Michael Dante.  The second strike against Michael is that he is a hockey player.  Those who read the author's first book, BODY CHECK, know that the then flirty and open Theresa went out with a Russian hockey player who attempted date rape.  Theresa survived intact, but is left shaken, changed and more determined than ever to pick the \\"right\\" kind of man.  But she is frustrated that her family and best friend and business partner, Janna are always championing Michael.  And now, it looks like she'll have to work with him as his family's restaurant has hired Janna &amp; Theresa's PR firm to spruce up their image and expand their clientele.<br />Michael first met Theresa two years ago, before the Lubov incident, when she was a feisty, flirty, fun girl who loved to tease and curse at him in Italian.  He was instantly smitten.  When he meets with her at the restaurant to discuss business, he can't get over the change in her.  She now dresses more conservatively, wears her hair pulled severely back and has taken to hiding behind heavy, dark framed glasses that Michael suspects she does not need.  Despite his best efforts, she refuses to succumb to his considerable charms, though on one or two occasions she relaxes and lets her \\"roots show\\" with him.  He believes that Theresa is The One and refuses to give up on her, even going so far as to consult his cousin Gemma who dabbles in tarot and witchcraft!  And not only is he having problems with Theresa, but his volatile older brother Anthony is fighting all the changes in the restaurant and to top it all off, Mike is not playing his best hockey and his coach, Ty is all too aware.  Man, he just can't catch a break!  And when Theresa begins to date a rich, yuppie attorney, Mike justs cut his losses and lets her go, though he never stops thinking about her or giving up hope.<br />Of course we all know from the get-go that Reese Banister is not what Theresa believes.  Janna warns her that she doesn't trust Reese, but Theresa refuses to doubt him.  She wants to believe that he is her WASP prince charming eventhough her family and friends take an instant dislike to him.  And then there's always Michael there in the background who, much to Theresa's annoyance, always seems to come out on top when she compares him with Reese.  Unfortunately, it takes a crisis for Theresa to finally see that she has been placing value on the wrong things and to realize that Michael is a man who will be there in good times and bad offering unconditional support to those he loves.  But has she pushed him so far away that she can never get him back?<br />Though I wasn't wild about Theresa, I did adore Michael.  He's sweet, kind, gentle and funny.  With him at her side grounding her, Theresa can't help but become a better person eventually.  Michael's evolving relationship with Anthony is alsosatisfying as the brothers face off over the future of the restaurant.  Looks like the next book will be about free-spirited cousin Gemma, though whether she will become involved with one of Michael's teammates or not, we'll just have to wait and see.  Though flawed in some ways, I still enjoyed this story.  I like the author's sense of humour and her way of bringing life in the Big Apple alive for those of us who don't live there.  I'll look forward to Gemma's story!	2004-03-05
US	40354595	R2WBMNC2XBEVE4	006000925X	604164454	Daisy's Back in Town	Books	3	36	43	N	N	Reluctantly, I have to agree - disappointing   :  (	Ive never rated a Rachel Gibson book less than 4 stars (most of them I consider 5 star reads) but this one does disappoint.  If youve read all of Ms Gibsons books this story may sound familiar.  Its a bit TRULY MADLY YOURS with a touch of SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE thrown in.  <br />Daisy, Steven and Jack were inseparable as children doing everything together.  But by high school Daisy had blossomed into a beauty that both Steven and Jack wanted, so in order to preserve their friendship, they agree that Daisy is off limits.  Daisy adores them both, but she has stronger feelings for reckless bad boy Jack (dont we always!) so when Daisy makes it clear that she wants Jack, their agreement is forgotten as Jack and Daisy meet secretly.  But just after graduation the world falls apart  Jacks parents die in a car wreck leaving him responsible for his younger brother Billy and the family business.  And at this same time Daisy discovers that she is pregnant.  Daisy is frantic about what to do.  When she attempts to tell Jack about the baby, he is not in a place where he can even listen and tells her that he needs some time to deal with the sudden changes in his life.  Daisy hears its over and decides (with influence from Steven and her mom who never approved of Jack) that the best thing for all concerned is for Daisy to take Steven up on his offer to marry her and take her away.  Jack already has too much to deal with and doesnt need to be burdened further.  And so Jack is left to believe that after all they had meant to each other, that his two best friends have betrayed him and left him all alone when he needed them most.  <br />Fifteen years later, Daisy has returned to her small hometown, a widow on a mission.  Steven has died and she now must honor Stevens last wishes to personally deliver a letter from Steven to Jack and to tell him that he has a son, Nathan, that he never knew existed.  Daisy knows that Jack will not take this well and is not looking forward to this confrontation, but it has to be done and she wont chicken out.  You can imagine his reaction to seeing her again and then hearing her news.  Hes understandably pissed and unpleasant.  Jacks challenge is to conquer his anger, get to know his son and somehow try to forgive Daisy and Steven.  Its a choice between being alone, bitter and stuck in the past or reuniting with the woman he has always loved and finally being a father to his son.  <br />But the characters here are simply not up to the authors usual standards.  Though we've all made mistakes in life, this one's a whopper and as a result Daisy is not a very sympathetic character.  Her inability to fully appreciate that she REALLY hurt Jack and that keeping his son from him for most of his life was REALLY WRONG frustrates.  Yes, you cant change the past and whats done is done, but for crying out loud, Jack deserved and needed the time to work out his anger and his sense of betrayal and she should have better understood that.  And though I fully sympathized with Jack, he was not all that likeable or sexy or appealing  certainly not to the standard of other Gibson leading men like Nick from TRULY MADLY YOURS or Luc from SEE JANE SCORE or Dylan from TRUE CONFESSIONS.  His feelings for Daisy seemed more of the lust variety than deep emotion and his forgiveness of Daisy happens so quickly and abruptly that it may just give you whiplash!  And some of the secondary characters seemed to exist only to drive the plot  her sister Lily for one whose sole purpose seemed to be to give Daisy an excuse to stay longer than expected and to bring Nathan to town.  And I found her mothers rambling as annoying as the rest of the characters did (if I want to experience that I can talk to my own mother!).  But I did enjoy Nathan and Jacks brother Billy  the best and most realistic characters in the book!  Not Ms Gibsons finest hour, but I'm not giving up on this author.  Im hoping the next one meets the standard of prior, better books.	2004-02-20
US	40354595	R1AI9BAX0XBR88	075820583X	279672128	Drive Me Crazy	Books	5	22	25	N	N	A fun read complete with art, sex, trust and love	Nancy Warren has become one of my favourite authors in this past year and I think that this is her best book yet!  Duncan Forbes is sexy, supremely self-confident, smart and handsome.  Alex Forrest is independent, smart, extremely comfortable with her sexuality and beautiful.  He?s a break-the-rules-when-it-suits-him kind of guy and she?s a gal who needs order and structure in her life.  Alex is the librarian in sleepy Swiftcurrent, Oregon and one day looks down from replacing a book on an upper shelf to find a very sexy man looking up her skirt!  He claims to be an Art History professor researching a book but Alex isn?t so sure she believes him.  His sleepy sexuality, cocky grin and rumpled appearance do not exactly scream ?academic?.  Why would he be doing research in her tiny library in this small town when a big city or university library would better suit his needs?  When she discovers a dead body in her library the next morning she is more suspicious than ever.  What is Duncan Forbes really doing in town and, more important, why is she attracted to him?<br />Duncan is what he claims, but he?s also known as ?the Indiana Jones of the art world? for his efforts in tracking down stolen works of art.  He has come to Swiftcurrent because of a lead on a Van Gogh painting secreted out of France before the Nazi invasion.  His information is that a Franklin Forrest was the last person to possess the painting and, though unfortunately the old man has recently died, it looks like Duncan has just stumbled onto his granddaughter.  So he doesn?t reveal his true reason for being in town and sticks to Alex like glue for three reasons:  1) she may know where the painting is  2) she may be in danger given the dead body found in her library and  3) she?s drop dead gorgeous, fun to be with and incredibly sexy!  Alex tries to resist him, heck she doesn?t really even trust him, but he?s the hottest and most fun guy she?s met in a long time and so she succumbs to his considerable charms.  <br />Police Chief Tom Perkins is also suspicious of Duncan, who arrived in town at almost the same time as a man was murdered.  But he?s thorough and looks into all possible leads and that includes Alex?s unstable cousin Gillian.  Tom has had a thing for Gillian since high school, but she left town years ago then returned with a husband Tom never did like and a drug problem.  Could the dead guy be some sort of drug contact of Gillian?s?  He doesn?t really believe that and Gillian adamantly professes her innocence.  Gillian is going through a tough time as she has just divorced her husband and is trying to stand on her own for the first time in her life.  Everyone in town (including Alex) thinks she?s a drugged out screw-up and her slightly neurotic behaviour only fuels the gossip.  Has Gill finally lost it?  Tom refuses to believe it and comes to her rescue at her lowest moment.  Then things begin to get more dangerous when both Duncan and Alex each have life-threatening experiences.  Who is behind them and why?  And whatever did happen to that painting?<br />This was a really enjoyable book with a fast pace and lots of chemistry between both Alex & Duncan and Tom & Gillian.  The mystery of the painting was not deep and the villain of the piece was fairly obvious, but it was fun to play detective along with Duncan and, when he admits the truth to her, Alex.  Tom and Gillian?s romance was very sweet and satisfying as Gillian pulls her life together and gets to experience a pure love for the first time in her life.  And Duncan's larcenous family background was also good for a few giggles!  A very highly recommended read!	2004-02-20
US	40354595	R1Y7L917TUS0XO	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	4	18	25	N	N	Not Kleypas's best but not terrible either	If you're in the mood for an angsty, weepy read about forbidden love, this story may be for you.  Aline is the oldest daughter of the Earl of Westcliff.  McKenna is a stable boy who came to the estate as an eight-year-old bastard.  Aline's cold and distant parents pay little attention to her (or her two siblings) and so she and McKenna become childhood friends.  They play together, she teaches him to read and they ease each other's loneliness.  But with adolescence come sexual attraction, temptation and ultimately frustration and reluctant resignation for they can never be together no matter how much they love each other.  Though Aline longs for kisses and intimacy, McKenna initially refuses knowing where it will lead.  But he's not made of stone and eventually he gives in to his need to be with her.  They meet for romantic trysts but one day they are seen and her father is informed.  He tells Aline that she is to make sure that McKenna leaves and never returns, and so Aline lets him believe the worst of her knowing he will hate her forever.  Aline watches him go in grief and despair knowing she will never see him again.<br />Twelve years pass and a party of Americans has come to stay at Stony Cross Park at the invitation of Aline's brother Marcus, now the Earl of Westcliff.  One of the Americans looks familiar and Aline is stunned to discover that it is McKenna!  He's become a wealthy man in America but he's changed, become harder and it is obvious to her that he has come back bent on seduction and revenge.  And little does he know he can hurt her all too easily.  McKenna is surprised to find the beautiful Aline still unmarried and wonders why.  He quickly decides that Aline is hiding something and is determined to unearth her secrets.  And she is just as determined to keep them hidden for there are things she cannot bear for him to find out.<br />Meanwhile McKenna's business partner, Gideon Shaw stumbles upon Aline's younger sister Olivia who lives as a semi-recluse after a tragedy and a scandal two years before.  Gideon is instantly enchanted and so is Livia and she slowly, to the delight and surprise of her siblings, begins to emerge from her self-imposed exile.  But Marcus is not happy that Gideon Shaw is the catalyst for this change.  He's a known rake and a heavy drinker known to closet himself in his rooms with a bottle for days at a time.  Certainly not the kind of man Livia should be involved with.  Livia has no illusions about the kind of man Gideon is or how he lives his life, but she has glimpsed a side of him that the others have not and she likes what she's seen.  He's kind, sensitive, amusing and self-deprecating.  But he's not exactly the type of man a woman wants to tie her future or her heart to.  So what can they ever be to one another?<br />Personally, I was more interested in Gideon and Livia's story than the leads.  They were a delightful pair with a real difficult issue between them.  I didn't feel as emotionally invested in McKenna and Aline as I would have expected.  McKenna was not quite as likeable or charming as many of the author's other leading men (they all can't be Derek Craven, girls!).  I had expected him to be more complex and both he and Aline to be a little less one-dimensional.  If he really knew and loved Aline he never would have believed her lie to make him leave and hate her.  He knew what her father was like, understood their situation and supposedly knew her, so their conflict really was a stretch for me.  But this is still an enjoyable read and, if you buy into the leads and their star-crossed love, a real weeper.<br />I just knew when I read WORTH ANY PRICE that the author had plans for Marcus (he was Lottie's employer, if you'll recall) and we meet him again here.  He will also be seen in the author's next book A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S KISS (Fall 2004 - the first in her new Wallflowers series) and will get his own story, AUTUMN VELVET (2005), which I look forward to : - )	2004-02-20
US	40354595	R2ACWQQ5D531I6	0553586335	909904007	Gone to the Dogs	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Cute, funny, sweet and just plain fun!	Par for the course - I've once again discovered a new author by reading the last of a trilogy!  This is the third book by Emily Carmichael featuring the incorrigible Welsh corgi Miss Piggy, AKA the late Lydia Keane who, on her death, was sent back to earth in the body of a dog to atone for her sins.  Prior Piggy books are FINDING MR RIGHT and DIAMOND IN THE RUFF.<br />In this adventure, Piggy finds herself in Arizona living with freelance journalist Nell Jordan.  Nell is a kind soul who has turned Piggy into a therapy dog (if you can believe it!), visiting hospitals, nursing homes and the like.  When one of their patients dies (the gruff, curmudgeonly Frank Cramer) both Piggy and Nell are stunned to discover that Frank left his 12 million-dollar fortune to Piggy! (with Nell as her guardian).  While Piggy is thrilled, Nell is stunned and now must be wary of leeches and hangers-on interested only in the money.   But is her new love interest, photographer Dan Travis one of them?  Piggy for one is very suspicious of \\"Studly Dan\\"!<br />And perhaps Piggy has reason to be suspicious, for Dan is not really a photographer he's a former LA cop, now a private detective hired by Frank's daughter.   She is convinced Nell is a conniving bimbo who charmed Frank out of his millions. While he's got a job to do, Dan finds himself captivated by the sweet and sexy Nell.  Dan has other secrets he's keeping that I won't reveal here and Piggy decides to make it her mission to sabotage his romantic efforts with Nell (her efforts are hysterical!).  As the days pass, it looks like Nell is definitely falling for the \\"studmuffin\\" so it looks like Piggy's going to have to kick it up a notch.  She uncovers Dan's most damning secret and brings it to Nell's attention (ever seen a dog type?!) and it finally looks like Piggy's matchbusting (matchmaking in reverse) is finally working when a tearful Nell kicks him out of her life.  Problem is Dan has come to have very real feelings for Nell.  He has always doubted that Nell is capable of deception, but he does uncover a secret from her past that makes him wonder.  Will they ever clear the air and be able to trust one another?<br />This was a really fun book that had me chuckling with regularity.  It may be too cute for some, but I got a kick out of Piggy, her ingenuity and her disdain for just about all of the humans she comes into contact with (she has some of the best lines in the book!).  But she does have a heart and she proves it more than once.   I haven't enjoyed getting into the mind of a dog so much since meeting Hairy from Susan Donovan's TAKE A CHANCE ON ME!.  I think I will have to investigate Piggy's first two adventures and will likely also read two upcoming books surrounding Nell's friends and fellow therapy volunteers Mckenna and her cat Nefertiti (in THE CAT'S MEOW, Fall '04), and Jane with her border collie Idaho (TBD).<br />This author also writes historicals set in the American West in the mid to late 1800's that may also be worth checking out.  Highly recommended.	2004-02-06
US	40354595	R39VZS92174A99	006009348X	765096685	Do Not Disturb	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Sexy, witty and so much more than a romp!	What an appropriate title for a story of people who have been existing in a safe sort of half-life that they do not want disrupted but that must be if they are to ever live a full life.  And the death of artist Stephen Whitney not only disturbs their equilibrium; it turns their lives upside down.  Stephen Whitney was an enigmatic, magnetic, self-absorbed and popular Norman Rockwell-esque artist known for his family and traditions oriented paintings.  Well Angel Buchanan, the daughter he abandoned at the age of four, knows a hypocrite when she sees one and on his death she decides to expose the Artist of the Heart for what he really was.  Shes a writer for West Coast magazine and she sets out for the family compound in Big Sur to interview family and friends.  But shes not prepared for what she finds there - Stephens second family: his widow Lainey, her sister Beth, their extremely protective and suspicious (not to mention hot!) brother Cooper and most disturbing of all a half-sister, teenaged Katie.  Cooper is not wild about the idea of a reporter poking around but Stephen did not leave the family in great financial shape and they all decide (all except Beth) that a little good publicity would help keep the artist and his work hot.  As Angel gets to know these people she is shocked to find herself liking them and losing some of her fire, not to mention objectivity.  Theres the devastated but hopeful Lainey, the mysterious Beth and the fragile Katie whom Angel feels an unwanted kinship with.  But her biggest problem is the handsome, sexy and too smart Cooper who (unlike most men) sees right through her innocent baby blues and angelic blond curls.  She just cant seem to resist him though she knows she can never let him get close.  Her father taught her never to depend on a man and she never, ever will.  Besides, Cooper is not Mr. Right, hes simply Mr. Right Now  right?<br />Cooper Jones has essentially been hiding out in Big Sur since havinga health crisis two years before.  He had been a hotshot attorney in San Francisco living hard and fast fueled by caffeine and nicotine and work.  But now he helps to run the family retreat Tranquility House with family friend Judd Sterling.  He had thought that living this slower, scaled-down life would help him find peace, but fears hes really just marking time.  When he meets Angel with her vibrant determination, her city-girl clothes, shoes and scent he begins to miss his old life in SF.  But he can never go back to that life.  Though he cannot keep his hands off the luscious Angel, neither can he offer her anything more than a brief affair, for shes headed back to the city and his life is in the Sur.  <br />Then theres Judd and his silent devotion to Beth.  This secondary romance had me in tears more than once as we watch Judds struggle to maintain his hard won inner calm in the face of his feelings for Beth and her seeming inability to deal with Stephens death.  All the meditation and eastern religions he's studied cannot calm his churning emotions or give him the answers he seeks on how to deal with Beth.  If Angel knew the secrets this family holds what a story she could tell!  And what will she do, what story will she tell, now that this family has come to mean something to her?<br />I really loved this book.  Its witty, sexy, poignant, sweet and fun.  Angel is smart, sassy and determined and Cooper is sexy, sweet, caring and generally adorable.  This is my first book by this author and if its any indication of her other works, it wont be my last.  Fans of Rachel Gibson will likely also enjoy Ms Ridgway as both excel at mixing sexy fun with emotional turmoil.  Very highly recommended!	2004-01-29
US	40354595	R3OPOZUBXR3PYP	0373835841	662792835	Windfall (2 Novels in 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	4 1/2 *s   A Windfall of great story telling!	This is a duet of stories (one old and one new) about two women rediscovering what they want out of life.<br />JoAnn Ross's WITHOUT PRECEDENT was originally published in 1986 and it holds up well as we meet harried, divorced single mom Jessica O'Neill who started her life over after her divorce.  She depends on no one and is determined NEVER to marry again.  She's experienced that trap once and will never give up her independence or identity for a man.  She's determined to raise her three daughters and build her fledgling law career all on her own.<br />Quinn Masterson, on the other hand, has spent his whole adult life focused on building his law career and making partner by age forty.  Well he just turned forty last month and has achieved all his career goals.  Now he is ready to focus on his personal life.  And as if on cue, into his life walks the lovely Jessica O'Neill, opposing counsel on a divorce case that Quinn is handling for a friend.  It's love at first sight for Quinn and he proceeds to sweep her off to dinner (if not off her feet) and charms his way into her consciousness.  He very quickly also charms his way into her family, winning over her three daughters and her mother in short order.  How come charming the prickly Jess is so difficult?  She is perfectly happy to have an affair with Quinn but no more.  Problem is Quinn wants more - he wants it all - marriage, a home, kids you name it.  Can he ever convince gun-shy Jessica that she can be married without losing her hard won independence?  Personally I thought Jess was a bit unreasonable as well as selfish, especially since it was clear that Quinn was nothing like her ex.  He is sweet, considerate, fun to be with and supportive of her plans and dreams.  He was romantic, spontaneous, sexy and just plain adorable!  Will Jess finally see the light and discover that she is one lucky woman?<BR>Though Jess had her moments where she made me (and Quinn!) crazy, this is still an enjoyable story.<br />I had never heard of Isabel Sharpe until I visited Shannon McKenna's (one of my fave authors) website and clicked on her link to Ms Sharpe's site.  There I read the excerpt for WITHOUT A NET and decided this was a story I wanted to read.  It's a charming, sweet and poignant story of shy, repressed Amanda Marcus and spontaneous, free-spirited Arch Williams.<br />Amanda has lived her life quietly and, for the most part, for other people.  She is intimidated and overshadowed by her flamboyant, appearance-conscious and overbearing mother to the extent that she is not sure who she really is and what she really wants.  She's also been unlucky in love having been left, not only at the altar by her first love, but also eighteen and pregnant.  She's spent the last seven years working as a seamstress, raising her daughter and avoiding her mother.  But when the whirlwind of Arch Williams and his three nephews enters Amanda and Clarissa's quiet life things will never be the same.<br />Arch Williams writes children's books and seems to be a child at heart himself.  He has just bought the house in which Amanda rents an apartment and has also become temporary guardian for his three nephews.  When they invade Amanda's apartment so that Arch can meet his new tenant, the two females seem timid and small when contrasted to Arch and his high-spirited nephews.  At first all Arch sees is a painfully shy and repressed woman - not at all his type.  But soon Arch begins to believe that there is more to this shy butterfly than he first thought and he is determined to bring her out of her shell.  <br />Amanda and Arch begin a romance, which is fun and sweet with Arch challenging her to assert herself and Amanda teasing him about his overgrown kid ways.  But as things get more serious these differences begin to cause conflicts that may just tear them apart - along with other external factors that force Amanda to make some serious decisions about her future.  Meanwhile, in a charming and deftly drawn subplot Amanda's high society mother Maude is reluctantly attracted to Arch's working class dad Sonny.  What a cute romance and metamorphosis for Maude!  It seems that Amanda wasn't the only one who was afraid to break out and live the life she really wanted!  A charming, sweet story - I'll look forward to reading more from Ms Sharpe.<br />Two enjoyable stories and a highly recommended read!	2004-01-23
US	40354595	R34J7BLC6IUVQ7	0425193713	95118327	Personal Assets	Books	4	38	41	N	N	4 1/2  *s  Passion, Sex and even Love!  Classic Holly	Now this is Emma Holly!  I enjoyed her historicals (BEYOND INNOCENCE & SEDUCTION) however; I did not care for her paranormal CATCHING MIDNIGHT (I didn't even bother with HUNTING MIDNIGHT).  But this book is my favourite by this author so far (I may just have to check out COOKING UP A STORM).  Sure I expected the steamy erotica, but what I didn't expect was that I would care so much about these characters!  The story surrounds four people all with some connection to exclusive Parisian boutique Meilleurs Amis (Best Friends).<br />Beatrix Clouet is the estranged daughter of the boutique's founder, Eve, who has recently passed away.  Philip Carmichael is Eve's much younger husband and CEO of the chain of shops.  Parisian society has long believed (with some justification) that Philip was nothing more than Eve's boy toy.  But now that she's gone, Philip is determined to prove that he's more than a pretty face - that he is a CEO to be reckoned with and that he can successfully run the company without Eve.  Beatrix has been in love with Philip since she first saw him (he's only five years her senior after all) but Philip has always treated her with the kindly attention of a doting stepfather.  Now, with her mother gone Bea can no longer hold her feelings back and she and Philip share several steamy encounters that, though he enjoys them, he feels are wrong.  Though he obviously has feelings for Bea, the fact that she is his stepdaughter holds him back.  Can Bea convince him that a relationship between them is not wrong and that they belong together?  <br />Meanwhile, Bea's American best friend Lela Turner puts herself forward to be manager of the New York shop, though she has no experience.  She gains a one-month trial from Philip and off she goes.  Lela is confident that she can succeed in managing the shop, but a month to learn the ropes may not be enough time.  One day a dark haired businessman enters the shop and an electric connection is palpable between them.  Turnsout he's Simon Graves, CEO of Graves Department Stores who, unbeknownst to Lela, is planning to buy out Meilleurs Amis!  Their obvious mutual attraction leads to a seemingly cold deal: he teaches her about management and finance and she becomes his mistress.  But it quickly becomes apparent that there is more here than just sex.  Lela's blithe and streetwise exterior hides a vulnerable desire to belong, to have the family she was denied growing up.  And Simon turns out to be a kindred spirit, but a lucky one in that a wealthy but warm couple adopted him, saving him from his unhappy life in an orphanage.  Will each finally find the contentment they seek in the other?  <br />Of course the fate of Meilleurs Amis, Philip's future as CEO and Lela's as manager of the New York store must be sorted out but will these two couples survive the upheaval?  Obviously, there is plenty of sex here, including two threesomes, so if edgy sex offends you, you probably should not be reading Emma Holly in the first place.  I enjoyed this story of sex and love and hopes and dreams and I highly recommend it for those who like this type of story.  Bon appetit!	2004-01-21
US	40354595	R2NX8HQW9Q0AOY	0060007230	78169548	Someone Like Him	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Can cultural opposites make a go of it?	This is the first book by Karen Kendall that I have ever read and I enjoyed this story.  Transplanted from rural Kansas to Manhattan, Vinne Hart is entirely out of her element.  She's blown several interviews but desperately needs a job in order to supplement the scholarship her young brother has won to a prestigious private school.  Desperate she answers an ad for a dog sitter - how picky can they be and how could she blow this?<br />Up and coming architect Nicholas Wright is totally focused on his career and achieving goals - mainly partner in his architectural firm.  But when he inherits a high maintenance dog from his eccentric late aunt (think Auntie Mame!) he needs serious help.  He advertises for a dog sitter who turns out to be a sexy blond who exudes a farm girl type of charm.  <br />Vinnie moves into Nick's penthouse and the differences in their upbringing and lifestyles is vast.  He's boarding school, prep school, Ivy League and designer chic.  She's high school grad, minimum wage and K-Mart.  Moving to New York has been a difficult adjustment for both Vinnie and her little brother Adam.  Vinnie's issues are more cultural and economically driven.  But Adam was used to being the smartest kid in his class back in Kansas.  Now, he is just one of lots of smart kids in this exclusive school and his difficulties fitting in break Vinnie's heart.  Nick can identify with the kid's problems, but figures the experience will \\"build character\\" and toughen him up.  He thinks Vinnie is too soft-hearted with Adam - and with everyone.  Vinnie is horrified that Nick could be so callous but then she learns about his childhood, his cold and distant parents and she comes to understand his succeed-at-any-cost attitude.  But she begins to see that he his, underneath it all, not fulfilled by designing boring box-like office buildings and the like.  She knows deep down, he'd rather be using his talents for more creative pursuits, but that's not where success lies.  And he needs success, praise, one more achievement that might just make his parents proud - show them how he made something of himself without them.<br />Meanwhile, he is becoming increasingly attracted to Vinnie and she to him.  Their late night architectural tours of Manhattan are particularly charming but both are trying hard not to let this relationship turn sexual.  Of course they fail (their first sexual encounter was a bit wild for their first!) and then they must begin to deal with where their relationship can ever go.  And when Adam is bullied in school and moves in for a few weeks, a weird sort of family vibe takes hold.  Nick begins to like Adam and together they design and build a home for Adam's pet frog.  But can two people from such different worlds really make it in the long term?  You'll hope so!<br />Though at times the humour seemed forced, silly and often unneccesary, I could overlook it in light of the wonderful way the author shows Vinnie's perceived shortcomings and lack of cultural flash and Nick's deep seated but long denied need for love and acceptance.  A recommended read.	2004-01-17
US	40354595	R30MSSZD8KVZVT	0380820560	192288870	Off Limits	Books	4	7	7	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Serious, yet fun and enjoyable romance	I've seen this in another review and I must concur - whoever chose the cover art for this book should be shot!  This is no light romantic romp or silly comedy as the cover might imply.  This is a fairly serious look at the downside of being a cop and the problems they face from the bad guys, from other cops and sometimes from inside their own heads.<br />By-the-book cop Emma Frey has just transferred from LA to New Orleans after she testified against some corrupt cops.  She's hoping for a new start, but word travels fast in the world of law enforcement and so Emma is unsure about her welcome.  She knows she's either seen as goody-two-shoes or traitor depending on one's perspective.  When she is partnered with loose cannon and lady-killer Bobby Halloran, she's extremely unhappy and uncomfortable with it.  The last two things she wants are a rogue cop for a partner and the rest of the precinct placing bets on how long it will take Bobby to get her into bed!<br />Bobby is on the verge of serious job burnout.  He's a cop who cares and is in serious jeopardy of doing himself or any potential perps harm (not to mention breaking lots of rules in the book).  Being partnered with \\"Earnest Emma\\" is the last thing he needs - she'll just cramp his style.  But work together they must on a burglary case in which the victim has disappeared.  And when it is revealed that the victim is Chloe Mitsumi, sister of an infamous mob boss - and one of Bobby's former lovers - things become a bit complicated.  Chloe is determined not to be found much to Emma's frustration and so she and Bobby must hit the bar and club circuit of New Orleans in search of her.  On one such stakeout they finally locate Chloe, but Bobby suddenly pulls Emma into a steamy embrace in order not to be recognized by one of Jacob Mitsumi's goons who is speaking to Chloe.  Both are stunned by their mutual response to this close contact but duty calls and unfortunately in the resulting scuffle, the elusive Chloe once again disappears into the night.<br />Bobby and Emma must face their mutual attraction and their differing views on what a cop should and shouldn't do.  Emma cannot resist Bobby any longer and so a relationship begins.  But Emma worries that Bobby is a disaster waiting to happen and tries to make him face his problems.  Bobby doesn't want to hear it - therapy, is she kidding?  Meanwhile they finally catch up to Chloe and discover a mystery surrounding Japanese statues, missing money and possibly corrupt cops.  And just when they close the Mitsumi case and are ready to celebrate, the disaster does happen.  Will Bobby survive to face and overcome his depression?  Will he and Emma have a happily ever after?<br />This is my first book by this author and, though a little light on love scenes, I still enjoyed the building relationship between Emma and Bobby.  She's tough and independent and he's protective, gentlemanly and a real sweetheart.  A highly recommended read!	2004-01-17
US	40354595	R1PLFTE7GAEDF	082177509X	914721451	My Favorite Husband	Books	4	24	27	N	N	4 1/2 *s  What happens when your dead husband reappears?	This book is an homage to the 1930's \\"screwball comedy\\" MY FAVORITE WIFE starring Cary Grant and Irene Dunne, which was remade in the late 50's as MOVE OVER DARLING (one of my fave movies) with Doris Day and James Garner.  It was in the process of being filmed a third time as SOMETHING'S GOT TO GIVE starring Marilyn Monroe and Dean Martin when Marilyn was fired from the film and then died (along with the film) in 1963.  It's the story of a man whose declared dead wife reappears on the day of his marriage to his second wife and the complications that follow.<br />Indiana Jones-like Chaz Vincent disappeared five years ago while on an expedition in the Amazon jungle.  Though Kelly has searched and refused to give up hope, she is finally persuaded that Chaz is not coming back.  She has him declared legally dead and moves on with her life.  She has decided to marry her longtime friend and co-worker Spencer Preston, though she has never stopped loving Chaz.  In a bizarre twist of fate or timing, the memorial service for Chaz is scheduled for the same day as her wedding to Spencer!  And so the former Kelly Vincent, now Preston, just hours after her wedding, attends the funeral for her first husband.  But when a familiar-looking bearded, deeply tanned man dressed in khaki shorts (!) appears at the memorial service Kelly is stunned to discover that Chaz is not dead but standing right in front of her!  What a perfect time to faint!<br />At first Chaz is chagrined that his sudden reappearance has come as such a shock to Kelly, followed by sheer joy at being with her again, but when he discovers that she has just remarried, feelings of betrayal rise to the surface.  How could she do this when memories of her were all that kept him going for all those years in captivity?  But on the other hand, how was she to know that he had been held captive by a tribe of pygmies?  Now they must figure out what this means for the future.  Is Kelly legally married to Spencer or to Chaz or not at all?  And more importantly, to whom does she WANT to be married - the steady, dependable but sometimes dull Spencer or the wild, spontaneous but often absent and in danger Chaz?  Laughs abound when Kelly, Chaz, Spencer and Kelly's brother Scott - along with several other players who further complicate things - all wind up at the resort where Kelly and Spencer were to honeymoon.  Chaz and Spencer engage in some serious competition to win Kelly and she really is torn.  Who will she choose?  And will that resort ever be the same after their wild stay?<br />This would have been a 5 star story, but toward the end I felt that the antics got a bit tedious and silly and I just wanted her to choose already.  And I concur with the other reviewers here that a book on Kelly's brother Scott would definitely be welcome!  A really fun, enjoyable read and highly recommended!	2004-01-10
US	40354595	RL7BCNV0S85H0	0440241065	475697120	Slightly Tempted (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Familiar territory but still enjoyable and well written	How many times can Mary Balogh use the sham marriage/engagement theme and still get away with it?  I guess as many as she wants as long as her story telling and character development is so brilliant.  The basic plots of all but one of the Bedwyn stories so far - A SUMMER TO REMEMBER, SLIGHTLY MARRIED, SLIGHTLY SCANDALOUS and now SLIGHTLY TEMPTED are all variations on the same theme.  Only SLIGHTLY WICKED, ironically my least favourite of the series so far, strays from this plotline.  And the first half of this book (which deals more with war, friendship, disillusionment and loss) is the best part and saves it from being just mediocre.<br />Youngest Bedwyn Morgan, a beautiful, intelligent and mature eighteen, has suffered through her come-out and is in the midst of her first Season.  She finds it all a crashing bore until she is invited to accompany the family of one of her suitors to Belgium on the eve of the Battle of Waterloo.  She is keen to experience the excitement of witnessing such an historic event but is disappointed to find life in Brussels much the same as in London.  Balls, assemblies, picnics, and officers who tell the young ladies not to \\"worry their pretty little heads\\" about the coming conflict.  Such condescension infuriates Morgan, a woman with an intellect and curiosity beyond most young ladies of the ton.  And so, it made sense for Ms Balogh to pair her with a more mature man just a few years younger than her oldest brother (and parental figure) Wulfric.<br />Gervase Ashford, Earl of Rosthorn, has been in exile on the Continent after a scandal involving Gervase,  Wulfric Bedwyn, Duke of Bewcastle, a young lady and a stolen jewel.  Unfortunately, Gervase was determined to be the guilty party in the mess and his beloved father kicked him out of his loved family home.  He has aimlessly drifted these last nine years until he ascended to the title on his father's death just last year.  His bitterness over his unfair exile resurfaces full force when Morgan Bedwyn is pointed out to him across a Brussels ballroom.  He sees an opportunity to revenge himself on Wulf through his baby sister and obtains an introduction to her.  He proceeds to woo her and in the course of things begins to expose her to gossip and scandal he hopes will make its way to London - and Wulf's ears.  But when the Battle begins and the ugliness of war is brought home all seduction comes to an end especially when Morgan's brother Alleyne, on his first assignment for the Diplomatic Service, comes up missing.  When her host family plans to leave for London, Morgan refuses to go without definitive word about Alleyne.  And so she stays on without chaperon or maid with only the support of the Earl of Rosthorn who offers to find out what he can about Alleyne's fate.  During those weeks in Brussels, Gervase and Morgan become friends, sharing worries, hopes, dreams and enjoying each other's company.  But they are also careless, seen walking alone together, hand in hand and even in one case embracing.  All of which eventually finds it's way to the London gossip mill.  And when word comes that Alleyne is presumed dead, Morgan can only reach out to her best friend, Gervase for comfort - and more!<br />They return to London, to scandal and to Wulf's stern disapproval.  Though marriage is the one thing that will put the scandal to rest, Wulf refuses Gervase and then, upon learning of his deceptions in Brussels, so does Morgan.  Until she decides to get back at him by accepting his offer for as long as she chooses with the intent of making him fall in love with her only to leave him heartbroken.  This is where the sham engagement dj vu kicks in and when the story starts to lose some of its sparkle.  It begins to sound oh so familiar and predictable and you can guess how it ends.  Though Morgan is well developed and likeable, I felt that the reader never fully knew Gervase or the depths of his feelings about Morgan and about returning to his family after being away so long and missing so much.<br />Though the second half of the book was not to the level of the first, I still recommend it for Bedwyn junkies and Balogh fans.  Even with a well-worn theme, Ms Balogh still pens and enjoyable tale.	2004-01-09
US	40354595	R34ZDYUBWSLZJD	0743442733	447191563	The Pleasure Seekers	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Not the best title for a story with so much heartache	Ok, I thought that we had done away with silly, unlikely heroine names like Raven, Parris, Skye and now Bliss?  UGH!  But Melanie George (along with Nicole Jordan) writes very much in the tradition of those late 70's early 80's bodice rippers, so I suppose we should not be surprised.  We're all familiar with stories of women who, through circumstances beyond their control, wind up with nothing, forced to either become governess or mistress.  Well here's a twist in that in this story, it's a man who's lost all.<br />Caine Ballinger has lost everything but his useless title as Earl of Hartland due to his father's debts - especially to the Earl of Exmoor.  He's been reduced to \\"pleasuring\\" the current lady of the manor, the malevolent Olivia Hamilton who bought Northcote on the old earl's death.  Caine hates Olivia (and himself) but with no money and no prospects, he is left with little choice but to do her bidding (sexually) in order to remain in his family home.  During a house party, Caine becomes intrigued by one of Olivia's guests - Bliss Ashton who just happens to be the daughter of the man he blames for all his troubles, the Earl of Exmoor.  Caine resolves to hate Bliss because of her father, whose intractability over Caine's father's debts to him contributed to his death.  But there is something besides hate in his eyes when he looks at the lovely Bliss and it does not go unnoticed by Olivia.  Not keen on having a rival for Caine's attention, she challenges him to seduce and ruin Bliss with his reward being the return of his family home, not to mention revenge on the Earl of Exmoor.  Though unwilling to go along with any of Olivia's machinations, he agrees knowing it is just one more black mark on his already dark soul.  But he's desperate to get his home, not to mention some small measure of his self-respect, back and to get Olivia out of his life forever.  Any guilt he feels about using Bliss is blunted by his need for revenge against her father.  And so hispursuit begins.<br />Of course he succeeds in seducing her, they fall for one another and she discovers his true motivations.  She flees to Paris to forget Caine and move on with her life.  Easier said than done - especially when Caine shows up in Paris determined to win her back.  Can she trust him with heart?  Can he truly love her?  And, given the unsavory things he's done and the fact that he has little to offer her, can he make himself worthy of her?<br />If you like your heroes tortured, Caine will perfectly fit the bill.  He's a man on the brink of despair, especially once he realizes his feelings for Bliss.  But a couple of issues:  Olivia's character was pretty much one-dimensional in that she did cruel things because she enjoyed it and because she could.  And if Caine had no money, how does he pay for travel and lodging when he follows her to Paris?  And toward the end there seemed to be more than necessary complications, revelations and some too easily resolved conflicts.  But I must say that Caine's despair and self-loathing were very well depicted.  When Olivia reveals Caine's ugliest secrets to Bliss his despair is palpable and his reaction borders on pathetic.  You just wanted to pull him into your arms, squeeze him tight and tell him it would be all right.  Though not perfect, this is a highly sensual story of a man who's done many ugly things and the woman who might just be his salvation.	2004-01-09
US	40354595	R2IY2GG34Y5IOV	0373691475	648230905	Pure Indulgence   Heat	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A wonderful, sexy and sweet indulgence!	Another steamy, sexy, yummy tale from Janelle Denison!  Kayla Thomas owns her own bakeshop and is experimenting with a new line of chocolates - but not just any chocolates - these are laced with an aphrodisiac!  She just needs the perfect test subject to try them out on.  Will they really stimulate a sexual response?  And how much fun will it be testing it out with the right guy?!<br />Jack Tremaine is the owner of one of the most popular restaurants in town and is in the process of opening a second.  He has been so wrapped up in ensuring the success of his restaurant, and now launching the new one that he has spent little time dating - at least not seriously.  And as one of the most eligible bachelors in town, he tends to attract shallow, vapid model-types that quite frankly bore him - like his date for the evening.  He spots a gorgeous, voluptuous blond serving desserts at a Chamber of Commerce dinner and discovers that her shop catered the desserts for the event.  She's a breath of fresh air - warm, sweet and curvy - and they flirt and have some serious chemistry.  He suggests that he may want to hire her to revamp his dessert menu in his restaurant - a real coup for her and her business.  <br />When he shows up at the bakeshop to taste-test one of her dessert suggestions, she decides to also have him taste some of her aphrodisiac candies!  He's a gorgeous, dark haired, blue-eyed hunk who is way out of her league (she's got serious body image issues ingrained by her mother and an ex-boyfriend), but if the candies have the desired effect, she may be able to have a little fantasy time with him!  Well, if the steamy kiss they share in her shop is any indication, it looks like the candy works REALLY well!  <br />They begin an affair with Kayla always bringing a new flavour of candy for him to try each time that they are together.  But is Jack's response driven by the aphrodisiac or by a real attraction to Kayla?  And what happens when he discovers that she's been using him as a guinea pig?  Was the whole thing the real thing or all an illusion?<br />I loved this story, could identify with Kayla and her insecurities and found Jack to be a really sweet, sexy and nice guy.  I wonder if a story will be coming to feature Kayla's former model sister Jillian and Jack's business partner Rich <g> !  Very highly recommended!	2004-01-09
US	40354595	R2EXWML90RQWSA	0446613665	19299467	License to Thrill	Books	4	13	16	N	N	4 1/2 Stars - A road trip to remember!	My first book by Lori Wilde was the terrific PACKED WITH PLEASURE and I so enjoyed it that I went in search of other books by this talented author.  And LICENSE TO THRILL was not a disappointment.  Two likable, believable characters, some nice chemistry and some crazy antics along the way make for an enjoyable escape from the daily grind!<br />Investment banker Mason Gentry has been sent to Las Vegas to search for his grandfather who took off with a half million dollars in Gentry company funds.  Mason comes from a wealthy, socially prominent family and as the dutiful younger son, always winds up doing the grunt work.  He's a straight arrow who always follows the rules, but he's also tall, dark and handsome . . .<br />. . . and the last thing PI Charlee Champagne wants to see waltzing into her office and her life.  Guys like Mason Gentry are truly dangerous to Charlee and she's got good reason for her fear.  Charlee grew up mostly on the road with her restless grandmother Maybelline after her mother died.  Her father is a good-for-nothing petty criminal who contributes to her distrust of men.  Charlee has a bit of a chip on her shoulder about her upbringing and the \\"trailer trash\\" label she's tried to shed, so when Mason comes along, she's all cool attitude.<br />When it becomes apparent that Charlee's grandmother has disappeared with Mason's grandfather, the unlikely duo embarks on a road trip to Arizona and ultimately to LA in pursuit.  During the trip, buttoned-down, live-by-the-rules Mason and rebellious, live-by-my-own-rules Charlee clash, but they also are attracted.  Charlee is a beguiling mix of toughness and vulnerability that Mason has trouble resisting.  Mason is honest, steady, dependable and the kind of man that she has had all too little experience with.   They are both finding it increasingly difficult to keep their hands off each other and their minds on the problem at hand.  Where are Maybelline and Nolan and what secrets lie in their shared past?  Well, it's lots of fun finding out, though I will say toward the end, the antics and obstacles were getting kind of silly and I was ready to wrap it up - my only complaint with this book.<br />Lots of fun story, great characters and wild and crazy adventures make this a nice escape from reality.  The author's treatment of the grandparents was also well done.  They're real and believable - not stereotypes of silly, clueless seniors.  They also rekindle their own romance from years ago.  Lori Wilde is fast becoming a favourite in the vein of Nancy Warren - another of my fave authors.  Highly recommended!	2003-12-10
US	40354595	RNFE5FMXQCKA5	0312983123	361218286	The Heartbreaker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Can a rake really changes his ways?	James Lindford, Viscount Farley has lived his life to the fullest with little regard for consequences until his half-sister Olivia's bastard half-brother appeared out of nowhere bitter and looking for revenge on the father who had abandoned him and his mother (the story is told in THE TROUBLEMAKER).   Shaken, James seeks out his own illegitimate offspring determined not to make the same mistake.  He locates two of three on his return from India and continues his search for the third.  James has ambitions in the Foreign Office and to that end, becomes engaged to a woman whose father will be able to assist his career.  But when she learns that he intends to raise his bastard children, under his own roof no less (including the half-Indian infant!), she breaks the betrothal and the scandal drives James to his country estate.  But taking care of an squalling infant and a foul-mouthed 10 year-old used to running wild through the streets of London proves more difficult than James bargained for.  And when his neighbor, Phoebe Churchill informs him that his oldest daughter Clarissa (Izzy) is stealing from her, he's reached then end of his tether.<br />Phoebe Churchill lives quietly in her own little cottage (since the death of her parents) raising her (illegitimate) niece Helen whose mother abandoned her for a life in London.  They barely make ends meet as it is, so when things begin to go missing Phoebe is determined to catch the thief.  When she discovers the thief is no less than the Viscount's daughter, she marches her to Farley Park to confront him.  The man she meets is devastatingly handsome and for the first time in her life, she feels the lust her mother always warned her against (and that her sister gave in to bringing scandal to the family).  After several more encounters and observing Phoebe's winning ways with both baby Leya and troublemaker Izzy, James asks her to become governess to his girls.  He's also developed a strong attraction to Phoebe that he doesn'ttry to hide.  And Phoebe is falling for him for more than purely physical reasons.  James is truly kind to his girls and is trying very hard to be a good father.  He is also intelligent, witty, warm and gentle and Phoebe finds she can't resist him.  As a result, Phoebe is unwilling to accept his offer because she knows where their mutual attraction will likely lead - to her downfall and ruin!  She needs the money, but ultimately it is another reason, which I won't give away here, that drives her to accept.<br />Now, here's where others felt the story broke down.  James has few qualms about making Phoebe his mistress, or about her possibly giving him even more illegitimate children - he wants her that badly.  Other reviewers felt that this did not make sense or that he should have \\"learned his lesson\\".  And perhaps he should have.  But there is a difference between taking responsibility for past misdeeds (fairly easy) and changing your ways (much more difficult!).  The real question is, is he simply using Phoebe for sex like all his other women or is this something different, something more meaningful?  Something that will cause him to change the patterns of his past life.  For me, the answer was Yes.  His attraction to Phoebe is not merely physical.  He loves her intelligence, her independence, her kind and gentle spirit and her genuine affection for his children regardless of their birth or background.  But old habits and expectations die-hard and when his former betrothed arrives wanting him back, he is tempted for the sake of his much-wanted career.  Will he marry his fiance thinking Phoebe will simply accept and remain his mistress?  Yes, you'll likely want to smack James upside the head around this point.  But give James the benefit of the doubt(or enough rope to hang himself) and see what he does.<br />I enjoyed this story.  The relationship between James and his daughters was sweet and at times challenging, the friendship and affection that grows between the wild, fearless Izzy and the sheltered, sensitive Helen was poignant and fun and the love that develops between James and Phoebe was passionate, tumultuous and ultimately perfect.  I recommend this for anyone looking for something a bit different - as long as you have an open mind.	2003-12-10
US	40354595	RRR1FGTB3OSQE	0060502185	73675837	To Tempt a Bride	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I dont get the title . . . he's the one needed &quot;tempting&quot;	Like other reviewers I found this story rather tepid, less than riveting and the secondary characters more intriguing than the leads.  This is my second book by this author (predecessor TO WED A STRANGER being my first) and I've decided that Edith Layton is simply not an author that I will seek out again.  <br />Camille Croft is a hearty, sturdy yet pretty-in-her-own-way country girl who is enjoying her first Season in London.  While she's become moderately popular among London's young men, she has eyes for only one.  Eric Ford, one of her brother Miles' best friends.  A former soldier, he's so handsome and masculine and Camille adores him but tries (often unsuccessfully) not to show it.   She feels she is no match for all the true beauties in Society and that Eric could have his pick of any one of them.  Why would he want her?  But his steadfast and warm friendship gives her hope for more. <br />For his part, Eric is quite taken with Camille, but his continuing bouts with malaria and his being ten years her senior keep him from acting on his attraction (though men married much younger women routinely in those days, so I don't get the big deal on that issue).  And when stranger Nell Baynes is added to the mix things become even more confused.<br />Is Nell the damsel in distress that she appears?  Against her family's wishes, the kind hearted Camille takes Nell under her wing, but soon wonders if it is to her own detriment when it seems Nell may have her eye on Eric.  And since Nell is so beautiful, how could he resist?  Has Camille unknowingly sabotaged her own happiness in being kind to a stranger - one who may well not be what she seems?<br />This was an okay story and Camille and Eric are appealing characters, but the romance between them seemed more fond friendship than passionate attachment.  As others have pointed out, the secondary characters (Nell and her cousin Mr. Bartlett) were often more intriguing that then leads and the pace was on the slow side.  Manyreviews have used the word \\"tepid\\" to describe this story and that sounds about right to me.	2003-12-09
US	40354595	R3R68U9HOBPWK3	0060514051	738680133	How to Treat a Lady (Talisman Ring)	Books	3	18	19	N	N	3 1/2 Stars - Another amusing Hawkins tale	I always wonder what her titles are supposed to mean - so often they seem to have little to do with the actual story (or maybe I just don't get it!).  Anyway, this is a nice story with a touch of mistaken identity farce and a nice relationship between Chase and Harriet.  But I found it slow and lacking in sustained passionate attraction.  Though I liked the development of their relationship from wary opponents to comrades to lovers, it happens quite slowly and no real hot stuff occurs until about 200 pages in.<br />Chase St John has decided to leave London before he can shame his family with his recent dissolute behaviour under the influence of his so-called friend Harry Annesley.  One incident in particular haunts Chase and is a source of tremendous shame and guilt of which he cannot absolve himself (causing another's death is unforgivable, afterall).  On the road to Dover and a ship waiting to take him to Italy, he is set upon by footpads and left for dead.  He is discovered by Miss Harriet Ward and her sisters and awakes in their home with a wound to his head.  Not wanting his identity known, Chase pretends amnesia, which Harriet doubts.  He seems awfully content for a man who remembers nothing!<br />Harriet and family have one last payment to make on the mortgage and Garrett Park will truly be theirs.  But to keep the bank at bay until the sheep are sheared and the wool sold, Harriet's mother invented a fianc for Harriet - a dark haired, blue eyed sea captain who is due to return any day with a hold full of booty and lots of money.  So far this stall tactic has worked, but there is one banker who is not buying the story and wants to force payment.  When Mr. Gower shows up, Mrs. Ward strikes again, telling the dark haired, blue eyed Chase that he is the fictitious Capt. Frakenham come to save the day!  Chase decides to play along much to Harriet's discomfort!<br />From there we watch with amusement as Harriet tries to trip up Chase into revealing who he reallyis and Chase tries to get Harriet to admit that Capt. Frakenham doesn't exist.  When they expect Chase to assist in the sheep shearing this masquerade has gone way too far - he's a St John for heaven's sake!  But in order to stay in character he pulls his own weight, works harder than he has in all his life and comes to admire the Ward family.  Harriet helps him to see that maybe running away is not the right thing to do, but has he the strength to face his family with his misdeeds?  And he and Harriet are becoming very attracted to each other.  He longs to take her burdens off her shoulders and give her all the things she needs and deserves.  But what can London rogue Chase St John offer a country girl like Harriet Ward except trouble and heartache?<br />Then there are the blackmail and murder attempts, villains to expose and, of course, the set-up for Devon's story THE BRIDE WORE PLAID coming May '04.  All in all an okay story just lacking some of the sizzle of some of her other stories.	2003-12-09
US	40354595	R281J7RL0P5BAF	1843605732	690668256	Thief of Hearts	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Sexy, Funny, Creative and Different - check it out!	Dr Jared Dean is spending yet another night on the ER graveyard shift when the sound of a scuffle attracts his attention.  He comes upon a fight and is shocked to see a petite blonde woman kicking the butt of a huge thug-looking man.  As she makes her escape he follows, not to apprehend her, but to her astonishment, to ask if she is all right!  What a surprising man.  But as security closes in she takes off leaving him to wonder who she is. <br />Jared cannot get the beautiful blonde off his mind and wonders if he'll ever see her again.  Little does he know that he made quite an impression on her, too.  Once able to think about what occurred the night before, Kara realizes that Dr Dean's life is in danger from the low-life scum she fought with, but who got away.  He'll need protection until the cops bust the guy, so she appoints herself his bodyguard in the interim.  When Kara reappears at the hospital the next night and tells him the situation and her plans to protect him, he's not sure he believes her, but any excuse to keep her close is OK with Jared.  He's immediately infatuated with her and does little to conceal it, much to her disquiet.  If he really knew her and the things she's done, he wouldn't want anything to do with her.  But Jared is undaunted and in the days that follow does his best to understand Kara and get her to open up to him.  <br />He discovers that Kara is the urban legend Avenging Angel (A. A.) and that she spends her time stealing from the scumbags and crime lords and giving to the poor.  The way she sets up a child pornographer for arrest was quite clever!  She begins to trust Jared and reveals her childhood in foster care and then on the streets.  Time spent with Jared makes her long for things she can never have (like a normal life) and she suddenly feels weary of running.  But with all she's done, the D. A. would love to get his hands on her and lock her up for a good long time.  Jared is determined that will never happen and she will stay with him, in his life - he just adores her (he's so sweet and cute!).<br />I just loved this book, this story, and these characters.  Kara was so streetwise and tough yet kind and vulnerable with her own strong sense of right and wrong.  And Jared was just a sweetheart - tender, funny, yet tough and protective when he needed to be.  His ready acceptance of Kara was almost too much for her, since she didn't think she deserved it.  Jared reminded me a bit of Chandler Bing from FRIENDS.  Before that turns you off, a less dorky, more confident and much more sexy and hunky version!  A former class clown and slacker who found his true calling in healing others - like he heals Kara.  <br />Another terrific read from MaryJanice Davidson.  If you're looking for interesting, different and creative stories, check her out.  But one thing to note - this is definitely an NC-17 book as some of the sex is a bit edgy and may be too much for some.	2003-12-09
US	40354595	R3M2M6SD79Y3NE	0758205511	989613496	Bad Boys To Go (Watson Brothers)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Nancy Warren shines in an otherwise mediocre collection	Bad Boys?  I must have missed something, cause I didn't find one in this book.  We have a nice guy, normally Mr. Responsible who let himself go crazy once and now has to face the consequences.  Then we have a supposedly \\"wild(e)\\" extreme sports enthusiast and lady's man who is actually scarred and wounded beneath the surface.  Lastly we have a nice guy whistleblower that's in way over his head.  If you're looking for real Bad Boys, you might want to read something else. <br />Foster's story is of Gil Watson who discovers he has a two-year-old daughter when the child's mother dies.  He is reluctantly drawn to the seemingly wild woman who has been raising his daughter.  Anabel arrives at Gil's office with baby Nicole in tow.  First she proposes that they get married so that Nicole will have two parents and some continuity.  Then, in desperation, she decides that using sex to convince Gil to let her stay in the baby's life is a good idea (!) and throws herself at him (\\"I'll do anything, Gil.  Any time you want, any way you want.\\").  She then proceeds to grab his privates while his daughter sleeps on the office couch just a few feet away!  UGH!  Kinda in poor taste, I think.  But she goes on to prove that she is a good mother and he decides he can't live without her, yadda, yadda, a family is born.  Ms Foster has written a few stories I've enjoyed, but this was not one of them.  2 1/2 stars<br />Janelle Denison's  story of Adrian Wilde was hot (as usual) but pretty predictable.  Chayse wants Adrian to pose for a beefcake calendar for charity, but convincing him proves difficult.  Until she shows up at his cabin in the woods and lots of one-on-one extreme sports heats up the wilderness.  We find out why he's so reluctant to bear his body and to trust women and why she's afraid of love and abandonment - all in a long weekend.  Though the two have a nice chemistry, it's not Ms. Denison's best either.  3 stars<br />Ms. Warren's story, on the other hand, was a fun ride!  Funny, sexy, crazy - the only reason to buy this book!  PI Gretchen thinks she's been hired to bust cheating husband Adam.  But all is not what it seems when it turns out that for one thing, he's not even married and second, that he's a whistleblower on the run.  Now they are both in danger and need to get out of town quick.  How they wind up on a bus full of seniors and on their way to Vegas with said seniors planning their \\"Elvis\\" wedding is just a really fun, wild ride and I enjoyed it immensely!  Gretchen and Adam make a sweet and likeable couple.  Ms. Warren has yet to disappoint me.  5 stars!	2003-11-24
US	40354595	R2G0X3SYSYTD0Z	0743482263	937986660	Big Guns Out of Uniform	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable anthology	I bought this book mainly to see what Liz Carlyle's first contemporary would be like (terrific!) and also to check out Sherrilyn Kenyon's new BAD/Sex Camp series.  I was not disappointed in either story.  Both were fun and sexy and enjoyable.  But I have to confess that I did not really read Nicole Camden's story, I skimmed it.  The title turned me off, the sex was a bit coarse for my taste and it was told in the first person, which I rarely enjoy.  Perhaps I'm being unfair to Ms Camden (whom I'd never read nor heard of before), but though her premise was easily the most creative of the three (a photographer that loses her ability to recognize faces), it just wasn't my cup of tea.<br />Personally I enjoyed Ms. Kenyon's story, though other reviewers did not and that may be because I've not read any of Ms Kenyon's other books and so had no particular expectations.  I've read all of her books under Kinley MacGregor and have enjoyed them.  BAD TO THE BONE kicks off her BAD (Bureau of American Defense)/Sex Camp series and, though at times you may find yourself rolling your eyes and saying \\"puh-leeze!\\" you'll likely be giggling while you do it!  This one is pure \\"Fantasy Island\\", so check reality at the door.  Mild mannered high school teacher Marianne has come to Sex Camp to participate in a fantasy acting out one of her favourite romance/suspense author's stories.  But when she stumbles onto BAD agent Kyle who is on a forced leave from his job as a covert government agent, he decides that if she's going to have a fantasy, he's the one she's going to have it with!  He kidnaps her and together they have their own little weeklong steamy fantasy.  But what happens when it's time to return to reality?  I loved Kyle's character - a sexy and sweet nice guy.  And Marianne is the proverbial \\"everywoman\\" - average to everyone but Kyle!  Fun, sexy and sweet.<br />Liz Carlyle's LET'S TALK ABOUT SEX was witty, sexy and fun.  Dr Delia knows all about sex in the clinical sense and shares her knowledge with the listeners to her radio show.  But her real life sexual experience is more limited than one would think and since her divorce, she's bordering on uptight.  But when she meets her hunky, sexy neighbor Nick, a cop on forced administrative leave, she is shocked to discover her interest in a fling with a total stranger!  What is it about this guy that leaves her willing to do things she'd never even consider before?  He's a heartbreaker for sure, so she'll need to be careful not to fall for the guy.  But given their mutual passion can either come out of this steamy relationship unscathed?  I loved this story and as another reviewer pointed out, it's much lighter in tone than her historicals.  Her style reminded me a bit of Susan Donovan who happens to be one of my faves.  I look forward to more contemporaries by Ms Carlyle!	2003-11-24
US	40354595	R1TYJUEPB3V17X	0373691157	251100238	Hot Off the Press	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sizzling, sassy fun!	Tess Elliot and Mike Grundel are movie reviewers for rival newspapers and from opposite ends of the socio-economic spectrum.  Tess is from a wealthy, socially prominent family but she's trying hard to make it on her own.  She's living on her humble journalist's salary and paying her dues in the hopes that one day she'll be covering hard news.  Mike comes from the wrong side of the tracks and grew up poor, raised by his alcoholic father.  He used to cover hard news, but when a source choked on him on a story involving local corruption, he was bumped down to movie reviews.  He's lucky he didn't lose his job altogether since he seriously pissed off a very powerful local businessman.  Mike still dreams of nailing Ty Cadman and he continues secretly working the story on his own time.  Once he's exposed Cadman and restored his professional reputation, he's out of this small backwater town for good.<br />In the meantime, he loves to tease Tess, to whom he is extremely attracted but refuses to act on his attraction to her.  She's like Grace Kelly to him, cool, beautiful and unattainable, and to her annoyance he's always calling her \\"Princess\\".  Why won't he take her seriously? They trade barbs back and forth like Tracey and Hepburn and their rivalry is fun to watch.  When they both stumble onto some new information about Ty Cadman's latest business venture, they wind up working together to pool sources and connections.  He's got the street connections and she's got access to the same social circles Cadman travels in and that Mike could never get.  All this time spent together makes it increasingly hard to suppress their strong mutual attraction.  They begin an affair and since they already liked one another, feelings are not far behind.  But once the story is done, will the relationship remain?<br />Another terrific read from Ms Warren - she has yet to disappoint me.  Mike and Tess are both likeable characters and their romance is steamy and fun to watch.  Highly recommended!	2003-11-18
US	40354595	R16N7MQKIM2F52	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	194	205	N	N	A classic!  The utlimate reformed rake!	It's a rare book that can sustain an average 5 star rating over 56 reviews (at least as of this writing)!  This is one of those books that I'd heard about for years and seen in lots of favourites and Desert Island Keepers lists.  It had been on my TBR shelf for several months and now I'm wondering what took me so long to read it - I loved it!  <br />This really is the ultimate rake reformed story.  Though I did not enjoy reading about Sebastian's unhappy childhood and torturous years at Eton, it had to be endured for the reader to understand the man he became.  Seemingly without conscience, a man who uses people, considers women either bothersome (ladies) or sex objects (prostitutes), drinker, gambler and uncaring bad influence on younger, impressionable and less wealthy hangers-on.  And one such hanger-on is Jessica Trent's idiot of a younger brother Bertie who is quickly going through the family's money in an effort to fit in and keep up with the infamous Marquess of Dain.  Jessica and her grandmother have traveled to Paris determined to reclaim Bertie from Dain's destructive influence.  But when Jessica actually meets Dain, she is frustrated and annoyed to discover that she is extremely attracted to the devil.  What a bother!  But she is still determined to extricate Bertie and forces a confrontation that he cannot ignore!<br />Upon meeting the delectable Miss Trent, Dain is no less attracted to Jessica and no more pleased about it.  He's avoided society ladies for most of his adult life (ever since one tried to lure him into marriage for his money) and the only women he spends time with are prostitutes.  But Jessica has quickly gotten under his skin and when they have several very public encounters that can only be described as scandalously inappropriate he is determined not to be brought to the altar.  But he underestimates Jessica's need for justice and eventually gives in.  If it's marriage to Lord Beelzebub she wants, so be it!<br />Of course neither expectsmuch from this marriage, but both are pleasantly surprised.  Jessica seems unflappable handling everything Dain throws her way with calm efficiency and confidence.  Dain can't help but be impressed.  And Dain slowly reveals himself to be quite human after all.  So how can Jessica help but fall for him?  But does this mean smooth sailing for this couple?  Not likely!<br />I really enjoyed reading this book.  I did not care for Dain at the start, but by the end I really liked him a lot.  Especially in his dealings with his illegitimate son.  Conversely I really like Jessica throughout.  She's tough as nails, determined, witty and nothing gets her down.  Actually, as others have pointed out, she may border on too perfect!  A highly recommended read!	2003-11-12
US	40354595	R383HC5NTC14WF	0380814390	855303202	Lola Carlyle Reveals All	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Max could &quot;commandeer&quot; my boat anytime!	You know, I almost didn't read this book because, from many of the reviews, you get the impression that Lola is some sort of moronic, one-dimensional bimbo.  Well, she's not!  She's a woman who is put into some very scary situations and, ok maybe she does one or two stupid things, but who's to say how any of us might react if we believe our lives are in danger?  And so what if she gave her dog a stupid name - lots of people are guilty of that.  Give her a break!  She's a recovering bulimic former model who's ex has been making a fortune off of naked pictures she had allowed him to take of her because she (stupidly as it turned out) trusted him.  She's trying to get away from it all on a vacation to the Bahamas when the yacht she is on is \\"commandeered\\" by a scary looking, beaten and bruised, very large man.  Why is this happening to her and how much more can she take? <br />Max Zamora is a former Navy SEAL, now a government operative who works covertly on very special assignments where the government needs plausible deniability.  This assignment has gone as wrong as it can get!  First drug lords capture him, then he is brutally beaten, and in order to escape must kill the drug lord's son and now, on the run, he's commandeered a yacht with a former lingerie model and her annoying little dog on board.  He can barely see straight and is still bleeding when she threatens him with a flare gun and winds up setting the engine on fire!  Now they are adrift in the Atlantic.  Can this get any worse?<br />They wind up bickering and fighting their growing mutual attraction while waiting to be rescued.  Lola starts to trust Max, who begins to show her some kindness and even her dog seems to grow on him.  He feels responsible for her and the predicament they find themselves in and promises Lola he will get her home safe.  But will bad storms and drug dealers allow Max to keep his promise?  And if so, what happens when they get back on dry land - will they ever see one another again?<br />I just adored Max - he was absolutely yummy!!  Lola was likable and I was sympathetic to her continuing issues with her weight and body image and her fear in relation to her experiences adrift at sea with Max.  I did not sympathize, however, with her naked pictures issue.  Anyone (especially someone in the public eye) in this day and age stupid enough to allow such pictures to be taken just has to deal with the consequences!  But she does get her revenge in the end - thanks to Max!<br />OK, perhaps not Ms. Gibson's best, but still an enjoyable and recommended read.	2003-11-12
US	40354595	R1SHH69H3N72H8	0060519711	726041225	Beloved Highlander	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Enjoyable Highland Romance	Gregor Grant is a pushover when it comes to women in distress.  But his most recent experience blew up in his face (not to mention the wound to his arm) and he's reluctant to stick his neck out for a woman again.  What an unfortunate moment for Meg Mackintosh to march into his life looking for his help!  He is not at all what Meg expected.  First of all, he's drunk, second of all he is much more hardened and fierce (and of course handsome!) than the sensitive boy she had understood him to be.  His family lost their lands twelve years ago after backing the Stuarts' claim to the English throne in the failed 1715 Rebellion.  Gregor never thought to see his home again and has spent the past twelve years a soldier in the English army and trying to forget that he is, or at least should be, the laird of Glen Dhui.  Which is precisely why Meg has sought him, but what, exactly does this fiery redhead want from him?<br />Margaret Mackintosh is the daughter of an English general who bought Glen Dhui after it was confiscated from the Grants.  He met the eighteen-year-old Gregor when he was imprisoned after the rebellion, took a liking to the lad and lobbied for his freedom, for which Gregor is grateful. He has now been deceived into betrothing Meg to their neighbor the Duke of Abercauldy a man, he later learns, suspected of murdering his first wife.  Knowing that he is too old to fight off Abercauldy, he sends Meg to bring back Gregor Grant who he thinks is the only man who can save them all.  Just how Meg does not know, but she'll do anything for her father, and if he thinks Grant can help them, so be it.<br />But what he has in mind will change their lives forever.  Is Gregor willing to resume his rightful place as laird - even if it means marrying the brave and fiery Meg?  And will Meg agree to marry the golden haired, fierce warrior Gregor?  And is there more to it than a marriage for their mutual benefit?<br />I loved Gregor's character and Meg's as well.  He's sweet, strong, warm and honorable and she's strong, competent, pragmatic and passionate.  An enjoyable romance even if the Abercauldy aspect of the story was a bit weak.	2003-11-11
US	40354595	R1F3NGRKUX6116	0373791100	136732237	Packed With Pleasure	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Packed With Pleasure  So True!	I'd never heard of nor read anything by this author before and was a bit apprehensive about this book, but some good reviews convinced me to give it a chance - and I'm so glad I did!  This book could give the impression of being all sex all the time without purpose, but it's so much more.  I felt such empathy for Eden and her insecurities and rooted for her to overcome them.  And if you've gotta get a guy involved, then surely you couldn't pick a better man than sexy, confident Alec Ramsey!<br />Eden Montgomery needs to jump-start her creative juices when she hits a slump and starts repeating herself in her one-of-a-kind erotic gift basket business.  What she needs is some really awesome, hot, creative, no strings sex to get her ideas churning again.  But she's gun-shy after her last attempt when scars she received in a fire turned off the guy and he cruelly walked out on her leaving her feeling undesirable and rejected.  She hasn't had the nerve to attempt it since.  But when she meets Alec Ramsey, simply the most handsome and sexy man she's ever seen she decides to go for it.  If any man can make her feel desirable again she's sure it's Alec!<br />Alec is the editor of Single Guy magazine and the epitome of the word playboy.  He's rich, handsome, successful and could have any woman in the world.  But when he meets Eden, he is immediately attracted and comes on to her in a major way (over a sexually charged lunch date!).  Eden is almost swept away but keeps her wits about her long enough to put some parameters around what must be a strictly sexual relationship.  She can't afford to fall for this guy - he's a guaranteed heartbreaker!  They agree to a one-month affair, no talking about personal stuff, no meeting friends or family and only seeing each other once a week.  <br />Things work out great for about the first two weeks, but what they don't know is that they've been set up by two matchmakers who are hoping for more than a sexual relationship to develop betweenthese two.  Their interference begins to cause Eden and Alec to break their own rules.  They begin to like each other on a personal level (always dangerous) and when one of them starts to push to extend their time together, things have really gotten out of hand.  What the heck happened to their simple, impersonal, strictly sexual relationship?  Did they ever have one or have they been fooling themselves all along?<br />I loved this book - period.  Eden was a heroine I could identify with and Alec was the sexiest \\"nice guy\\" I've read in a while.  Highly recommended!	2003-11-11
US	40354595	RJXTJJXKTZ2OC	0373691432	534984386	Fringe Benefits: Heat	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another enjoyable, fun and sexy Warren read!	After putting up with repeated sexual harassment from a colleague, Jane Stafford finally takes aggressive action.  But when she winds up having to leave her job instead of her harasser, she's determined that it will not happen again!  She decides that, before she applies for a new job, she will acquire a husband.  Her fake wedding band should keep would-be creeps at bay.  But she doesn't count on being extremely attracted to her new boss, Spencer Tate.  Now here's a development she did not anticipate!<br />Spence is attracted to Jane from the interview on and as he works with her, finds it increasingly difficult to suppress the attraction he feels to a married woman.  He feels like a creep, but he also feels that there is something \\"off\\" about Jane's marriage.  Especially after he meets her \\"husband\\" - a man who does not seem to suit Jane and who also seems to be interested in another woman!  Spence decides that something stinks in this marriage and becomes determined to learn the truth.  But now the charade has gone too far and Jane does not know how to tell the truth without Spence thinking she's a liar or a nut.  And the rest of the staff will think she's sleeping with the boss to advance in the company.  What to do?  <br />I must say, I found the feminist sensibility that pervades this book a bit passe.  If this were the 70's or 80's then maybe I could buy it, but not in these oh so PC times.  I doubt the sexual harassment would have played out as it did in the book in this day and age in any responsible (or at least litigious-conscious!) company.  Still, though not one of her best, an enjoyable read from an author who has become a favourite.	2003-11-08
US	40354595	R314QIUBF04XFD	0759900639	711361305	By Any Other Name	Books	4	43	43	N	N	4 1/2 stars - Creative, funny, poignant and sexy!	This is my first book by this author and if you like a story that keeps you on your toes this one's for you.  It's a roller coaster ride of ups and downs when Stephanie learns that she is not the orphan she always believed, but that her father is alive and well.  And then she learns that Erik, the man she has developed a very reluctant attraction to, is the one man who can take her to meet her father.  Their relationship is stormy to say the least, but an undeniable attraction lurks just below the surface.  <br />Erik is rude, arrogant, bitter and ruthless but he's also incredibly handsome and sexy.  Stephanie is no wimp and she's not intimidated by him in the least.  But she also discovers that he has a keen sense of humour and is capable of an unexpected kindness that begins to grow on her.  For Erik's part, he has become a bit protective of the optimistic, lively and open Stephanie, for he knows only too well how cold her father can be.  His protective instincts surprise him and he discovers that he will do anything to keep her from being hurt.  But he also knows that she needs to know the awful truth.  At least he can be there for her when she confronts it!<br />But all is not what it seems, and there are twists in this story that you likely won't anticipate.  Erik certainly doesn't, as he confronts her father with the declaration that he has come to care for \\"... one of the characters in this little psycho-drama you've created and we're both tired of the lies.\\"  But can they handle the truth?  I won't spoil it by saying more, but suffice it to say that this is one convoluted and sad situation!  Can anything good come from it?  YES!<br />MaryJanice Davidson is an author that I will definitely be keeping my eye on and look forward to reading more from!  A recommended read!	2003-11-08
US	40354595	R15ILA2D0JXCVI	0821774689	280036777	An Unmistakable Rogue	Books	4	22	23	N	N	I hate to break the 5 star roll . . .	. . . but though I enjoyed this book, I can't give it 5 stars.  This third in the author's \\"Rogues Club\\" series follows the pattern of her prior two stories (UNDENIABLE & UNFORGETTABLE) which are really more about the coming together of a family than any wild roguish adventures.<br />Reed Gilbride has always known that the people who raised him were not truly his parents, so when he receives an anonymous letter telling him that he is the lost heir to the earl of Barrington, he's determined to find out once and for all who he really is.  And if that means a title and an estate in the bargain, well so much the better!<br />Chastity Somers was briefly married to another recipient of an identical letter, and though William Somers died on the trip from France, Chastity is determined to complete his mission.  She wants to turn the Barrington estate into a children's home - especially after meeting William's four young orphaned cousins who she takes into her care.  And if no other legitimate heir comes forward by the 20th anniversary of the old earl's death, the house will belong to her.  So when Reed shows up, she's more than wary.  He's handsome, masculine, loathes children and has a similar claim that threatens her plans.  But the house needs repairs and she'll need help providing for the children so she agrees to let him say on as a caretaker.<br />And he certainly does take care of them, teaching them to plant crops, milk the cow, cook and generally take care of themselves (he grew up the oldest child on a farm) and somewhere along the way, they all bond with children and adults becoming dangerously attached.  But there is someone behind the scenes that threatens their tranquility and their lives in the name of revenge.  And what happens if Reed finds the proof he needs to back up his claim?  Will Chastity and the children simply move on somewhere else?  And if he doesn't find proof, will he simply walk away and leave them - will they let him?<br />There were some very sweet, funny, scary and sexy moments in this book, but there were also places where it dragged or went off course (the balloon episode seemed particularly pointless) and I found my attention wandering.  And the whole \\"I love you but we can never be together\\" thing got a bit old.  But the children were charming and the romance between Chastity and Reed was sweet and hot!  Reed was a particularly likeable hero, funny, sardonic, sexy and strong.  Chastity was kindhearted, sweet and nave to the point of sometimes coming off as a ditz.<br />On the whole an enjoyable read with a nice family dynamic - something this author does particularly well.  I just think the rest of the story could have been a bit better, tighter.  But fans will likely disagree and love it anyway.	2003-10-18
US	40354595	RZDAAX8FF0FO3	0505525356	738725503	Wild About You	Books	4	1	2	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Wild One meets Mr Control!	Another enjoyable tale of \\"opposites attract\\" from Robin Wells.  This is the second book by this author that I have read - my first was the terrific BABY, OH BABY! - and though at times the author's sense of humour had me rolling my eyes (some things were just too silly), I still enjoyed this book.<br />It's the story of logical, orderly, always in control Rand and free-spirited dreamer and firm believer in Destiny Celeste.  They become neighbors when Celeste inherits the farm next to Rand's horse ranch.  Rand had planned to buy the property that Celeste has just inherited to expand his business, but now this wacky chick has moved in and plans to open a children's petting zoo of all things (she also inherited a variety of former circus animals)!  Rand figures she's bound to fail at this ridiculous venture and when she does, he'll be there to make an offer for her property and get what he wants.  He'll just bide his time.  But he doesn't count on Celeste's relentless energy and optimism or on his own surprising lack of interest in seeing her fail.  Her open, sweet spirit has begun to attract him (not to mention her physical attributes), and in spite of the intolerable chaos that seems to follow her around and despite his best efforts to resist her, she eventually gets under his skin.  <br />As with BABY, OH BABY, the author also deftly interweaves a secondary love story surrounding a slightly older couple.  Sara has come back to town for the first time in 18 years when her dad has a stroke.  Her return is uncomfortable and unwelcome - especially for her former fianc, George whom she left at the altar.  George was left to face the humiliation and gossip alone while Sara went off to college and a life as an interior designer in Chicago.  Her arrival back in town has dredged up all those old feelings of anger, humiliation and regret and though Sara wants to explain and apologize, George just wants to ignore her until she leaves town again.  But perhaps Sara would rather stay in Cypress Grove - if she felt she had something, someone to stay for.  Will George give her a second chance?<br />Two very sweet love stories that I found very enjoyable.  The characters were well develop and likeable and you cared what happened to them.  You come to understand why Rand is such a control freak when his childhood is explained and you also see that Celeste brings that lightness and spontaneity that he lacks.  While some of Rand's orderliness and business savvy save the day for Celeste.  A case of two people who balance each other out perfectly.  A recommended read!	2003-10-17
US	40354595	R36WDN8830F3AO	0758205694	794176312	Jingle Bell Rock	Books	4	32	34	N	N	4 1/2 *'s   Fun Christmas Anthology!	I'm not big on anthologies (they're usually so uneven) but this one is pretty good.  I'll be honest, I really only bought it for Susan Donovan (one of my faves) and Janelle Denison (her stuff is so hot!), but wound up enjoying (to one degree or another) all but one of these stories.  <br />First up is the ubiquitous Lori Foster.  I'm not a big fan of her full-length novels, but I've enjoyed several of her short stories, this one is no exception.  It's the story of neighbors who become friends all the while becoming more and more attracted to one another.  And when Booker's girlfriend essentially dumps him by hitting on his brother, he's now free to pursue his long suppressed attraction to Frannie.  Cute and sweet.  4 stars<br />Janelle Denison's entry brings to mind Cinderella or Pretty Woman (without the hooker).  Elementary school teacher Faith decides to come on to pediatric surgeon (and reputed playboy) Matthew and suggests a steamy one-night stand.  Matthew has pursued her for months without success, but now he'll take full advantage of her request.  She's been burned by his type before - a rich professional from a socially prominent family - so she's got her eyes wide open this time.  But can Matthew convince her that he's not like her ex and that he wants more than just one night?  He sure convinced me!  4 stars<br />Susan Donovan's contribution is by far the most inventive of the bunch.  At first I was a bit uneasy until it occurred to me what was probably going on (I won't spoil it by telling!).  Poor Valerie is stood up on Christmas Eve, in her sexy new dress and shoes, the dinner she prepared getting cold - along with herself!  Her furnace has gone on the fritz and she's just waiting for the furnace repairman.  What a pathetic way to spend Christmas Eve!  But when repairman Earl shows up, her self-pity is put on ice while the heat definitely turns up!  Funny, sexy with a twist!  4  stars<br />Donna Kauffman and Alison Kent both do the high school sweethearts who reunite after ten years very differently.  Ms Kauffman's story is more emotional and sweet but a little too angst-filled.  Suzanna is filled with guilt and remorse for dumping Jace just months after graduation after promising to stay close.  When they meet again, will Jace still care?  This story suffered from a little too much history and background and not enough of the here and now, though the heat and longing between the couple was palpable.  3  stars<br />I did not care for Ms Kent's story.  I found this couple lacking any real emotional connection (especially her) and I found their sexual relationship on the coarse side.  Blue was sexy, stoic and likable (if a little bitter) and deserved better than the selfish Jessie.  Her whole reason for coming back is based on sex and how it's only ever been good with Blue.  I didn't feel much love, affection or mutual respect between these two characters.  I'd never read anything by this author before nor will this story induce me to do so.  2  stars<br />Nancy Warren's story of office co-workers who constantly butt heads and who wind up Secret Santa partners was really fun, sexy and enjoyable.  I was deliciously impressed with Tara's creative boldness when she dares nemesis Daniel (whom she overheard saying she needed to \\"get laid\\") to be the man for the job!  Some really steamy love scenes and hot chemistry.  Ms Warren is a new author for me and a pleasant discovery.  4  *'s.	2003-10-14
US	40354595	RBB65GIWR9FOC	038081918X	65675664	Getting Lucky (Marine, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Surly Marine meets voluptuous girly-girl who's so much more	This is my first Susan Andersen book and I did enjoy it.  I especially liked Lily's character.  She's a firecracker!  Zach was handsome and sexy but a bit too surly for a bit too long to make his romantic interest in Lily entirely believable (the main complaint with this book).<br />Zach Taylor has come home on leave to find blonde bombshell Lily Morrisette living in his house - sleeping in his bedroom!  He immediately assumes she's yet another leach hanging around with his baby sister Glynnis to sponge off of her and her money.  He is rude and nasty to Lily demanding to know where his sister has gone and with whom.  Well an attitude like that will get you nowhere with Lily!  <br />Lily has been renting a room from Glynnis and the two women have become friends.  Glynnis has just become engaged to David and they've taken a trip to Washington to meet his family.  Lily likes David and feels the two of them deserve to be happy without GI Joe storming after them to ruin it all, so when Zach is determined to follow, she's just as determined to come along!<br />The ensuing road trip is a wild ride with Zach and Lily bickering and covertly checking each other out (with growing interest) by turns.  By the time they get to their destination, they are definitely softening toward each other.  But what they find there is not good - it seems Glynnie and David have been kidnapped!  And what Lily and Zach don't know is that they've been followed the whole trip by a Colombian national with a grudge against Zach.    <br />While many will dislike Zach, I was okay with him (bark worse than bite kind of thing).  And Lily brings him to his knees eventually anyway (literally).  I thought I was going to hate Lily, but she was a hoot - no dumb blonde pushover here!  The kidnapping and Colombian subplots are more light suspense than anything that will have you on the edge of your seat and I think that's intentional.  Not a great book, but a fun way to pass the time and some steamy chemistrybetween Zach and Lily.  Recommended.	2003-10-14
US	40354595	R1Q7E25LD8RFVZ	1551666804	962070285	Forever Blue (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	4 1/2 *s   Another Brockmann winner!  Blue & Lucy are sweet!	Everyone in sleepy Hatboro Creek, SC is anticipating the wedding of Gerry McCoy and Jenny Lee Beaumont.  They're all eagerly awaiting the return of Gerry's stepbrother US Navy SEAL Carter \\"Blue\\" McCoy.  Everyone expects fireworks since Blue and Jenny Lee had been high school sweethearts until Jenny dumped Blue for Gerry.  <br />Lucy Tait is also anticipating Blue's return but for reasons of her own.  She had a serious crush on Blue in high school and she's still infatuated after all these years.  He's her hero and because of him, she's learned all she can about Navy SEALs.  When he returns to town, she discovers that her feelings for him have resurfaced full force.  The teenaged loner has become a handsome, powerful, confident, but still largely solitary man.<br />But Lucy is not the scrawny, Yankee kid that Blue remembers rescuing from more than one scrape in high school.  She's now a lovely, self-possessed woman - and a cop!  When Blue invites Lucy to the rehearsal dinner after-party she is stunned and thrilled.  Blue McCoy asked her out on a date!!<br />Unfortunately the evening turns into a fiasco when Gerry and Blue wind up in a fight.  Blue leaves the party planning to leave on the first bus out of town.  So much for Lucy's big date with Blue McCoy.  But when Gerry turns up dead and Blue is the prime suspect, Lucy finds herself in charge of the investigation - her, a rookie cop!  And Blue has no one to turn to to prove his innocence except Lucy since the whole town seems to already believe he's guilty.  Was he set up (and why?) or was Blue really jealous of Gerry and still in love Jenny Lee?  Can Lucy be fair and impartial when it comes to a man she's adored for years or will she be seduced by his charm and her long suppressed feelings?<br />Oh, it's another yummy Brockmann TDD read and I enjoyed it immensely!  Blue is the strong, silent sexy type and Lucy was a great heroine who knew her own heart and had the strength of her own convictions.  She's probably one of Brockmann's more developed, fully dimensional heroines.  My only complaint was with her obsession with Blue and his feelings for Jenny Lee - get over it!  And, maybe a first for the author, I found myself wanting to know more about the hero.  Usually it is the heroines that Brockmann short-changes, but here I wanted to know Blue better and felt I never got the full picture.  But still a highly recommended!	2003-10-04
US	40354595	RA8JNHPNW2BVL	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	5	197	207	N	N	Lives up to it's reputation and then some!  Excellent!	You know a book has a lot to live up to when you read things like \\"One of the world's most cherished love stories!\\" and \\"Probably the best historical romance ever published\\" and \\"One of the greatest love stories of all time\\" not to mention \\"A watershed in romance fiction\\".  This book and this author (whom I've never read) seem to be much revered by readers and authors alike, so when this book was re-issued in June, I was glad of the chance to read it and see for myself what all the fuss was about.  And let me tell you I was not only blown away, but I'll be searching out Ms Kinsale's other books for sure!  A great book, compelling characters and a story to make you smile and weep and worry and hope that all will be well in the end!<br />When first we meet Christian Langland, Duke of Jervaulx, he is too handsome and charming for his own good, dissolute, completely reckless and full of hubris.  He also happens to be a mathematical genius.  He is working on a paper detailing a new mathematical theory with an unlikely partner - blind Quaker John Timms whose daughter Archimedea (Maddy) is his eyes and caregiver.  Maddy is both fascinated and repulsed by the duke and his wild, worldly ways (he actually flirts with her!).  When word comes that he has perished in a duel, both the news and her reaction to it shock her, as she weeps for this man she thought she did not even like!<br />Months later, Maddy and her father find themselves at Blythedale Hall, an insane asylum for the well to do where Maddy will assist her Cousin Edward who runs the place.  On rounds to meet the patients, she is stunned to discover a disheveled, wild-eyed Jervaulx among the inmates!  Before the duel could even commence, Christian was struck down by a stroke and is left unable to communicate, with damage to his motor skills and memory.  In his frustration, he lashes out like an animal but when he recognizes Maddy, he calms.  She is allowed to be his daytime caregiver and he latches onto her like a lifeline.  His fear and frustration were nothing short of heartbreaking and the treatment and humiliation he endures from his \\"attendants\\" borders on cruel and masochistic - simply horrifying.<br />Maddy devotes herself to easing his fears, helping him to communicate and, when she learns that he must face a competency hearing (instigated by his greedy brothers-in-law) or lose his title and his freedom for good, she resolves to do what she can to prepare him.  But all sorts of misadventures, manipulations and deceptions follow with Christian keeping a death-grip on Maddy while Maddy is torn between helping Christian and keeping to her father and her faith.  <br />I won't say more about the plot, but the characters are so well written that they will make you laugh, cry, and bite your nails with anxiety for them.  This book must have been exhausting to write!  The author deftly conveys Christian's frustration, broken language and motor skills as well as his needy attachment to Maddy as it grows to love.  And Maddy is so devoted to Christian that time and time again, she tests the bounds of her faith against what she feels is right.  This is a truly moving, wonderful story that I highly recommend to those looking for more than just sex and light romance.   This book is an investment in time and emotions - not a quick, easy read.  If you like more complex books and authors like the Bronte sisters, George Elliot, Julia Ross/Jean Ross Ewing, Mary Balogh early Woodiwiss and maybe even Liz Carlyle or Gaelen Foley, I think you will like this book.  Very highly recommended!!	2003-10-04
US	40354595	R2R0WBEF1DPVCA	0380801213	267805194	Truly Madly Yours	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Fantastic!  Oh man, Nick is soooo sexy!	Nick Allegrezza has got to be one of the sexiest guys I've ever read!  He's drop-dead gorgeous (I've never come across a Basque hero before), incredibly sexy, and thoroughly infuriating.  But more than just handsome and sexy, he's complicated too.  He was the bane of Delaney's childhood, throwing snowballs at her and teasing her unmercifully, but did he flatten the tires on her bike to be mean or so that he could walk her home?  Hmmm, true feelings and motivations can be so murky!<br />Delaney Shaw left Truly, Idaho at 18 and never looked back.  She's been a nomad moving from place to place and job to job until she's forced to return to attend her controlling stepfather's funeral.  In a last power play, his will stipulates that in order to claim her inheritance of three million dollars, she must stay in Truly for a full year!  There go her plans to leave ASAP.  Now if she can just avoid her nemesis, Nick for the next twelve months . . .  Nick, who was Henry Shaw's unacknowledged illegitimate son, also has a stipulation to his inheritance.  He will lose the lucrative property Henry left him if he becomes sexually involved with Delaney within that same year!  Shouldn't be a problem, right?  He's not interested in Delaney - is he?<br />But avoiding each other in a small town like Truly, especially when Delaney's best friend Lisa is engaged to Nick's brother Louie, and when the hair salon she opens in town is just doors away from the offices of Allegrezza Construction proves quite difficult.  And as they have more and more steamy encounters we learn more about their tangled, complicated past - especially their night at Angel Beach when they were caught by Henry in a compromising situation.  The repercussions from that night drove Delaney to leave town and continue to haunt both of them.  Did Nick take advantage of her just to get back at Henry for not acknowledging Nick as his son?  And did Delaney live the life of the pampered, pretty princess as Nick thought or did she pay a price for being Henry Shaw's stepdaughter?<br />I am a huge fan of Rachel Gibson's books and this and SEE JANE SCORE are definitely my faves!  Nick and Delaney are so great together and Nick is the kind of complicated guy that you enjoy trying to figure out.  A very highly recommended read!	2003-09-24
US	40354595	RYABWTG68O1X2	0380808072	230937958	First Lady (Wynette, Texas)	Books	3	19	20	N	N	3 1/2 *s    A little light on romance, but a nice story	Not so much a romance as an homage to family (the non-traditional variety) and to those decent folks willing to subject themselves to the scrutiny and ugliness that can accompany a life in politics.  <br />First Lady Cornelia \\"Nealy\\" Case is burned out.  She's been in the public eye all her life first as the daughter of the Vice President (now the party chairman) and most recently as First Lady.  But the death of her President husband presents her with her first thoughts of freedom - until the new President, a widower, asks her to stay on and act as his First Lady.  She very reluctantly agrees, but after six miserable months she plots her escape!<br />Journalist Mat Jorik is in career crisis.  He's looking to regain his journalistic integrity after an ill-advised foray into tabloid TV.  All he needs is that Big Story that will put him back on top again.  But in the meantime, he's got other, bigger problems.  He's become responsible for the two daughters of his ex-wife who has recently died.  The last thing he wants is to care for two kids that aren't even his (especially after practically raising his six younger sisters!), and so he packs them into a Winnebago and embarks on a trip from Pennsylvania to their grandmother's in Iowa.<br />These unlikely travelers meet up at a truck stop when Nealy's car and money are stolen.  Nealy, disguised as a pregnant woman down on her luck, is not recognized and Mat offers to let her travel with them if she will take care of the children and she agrees.  And so begins this strange odyssey of a man who doesn't want a family, a woman who's getting her first taste of a normal life and two kids who desperately need a family.  My heart went out to fourteen-year-old Lucy, sullen and cynical on the outside yet vulnerable and hopeful on the inside, she's desperate to get Mat and Nealy together so that she and her baby sister are not separated and put into foster care.  As the days pass they begin to bond, but will Mat's reluctance for family life mean the girls' future is in jeopardy?  And what happens when Nealy's true identity becomes known, not to mention when she discovers Mat is not the steelworker she assumes he is - that he's that sworn enemy of anyone in political life, a journalist?  Is Nealy his Big Story?  Would he betray her and all they shared to re-establish his journalism career?<br />A very enjoyable story with characters you will care about.  However, as with other reviewers I do have a couple of issues.  Given how much she enjoyed her freedom, Nealy's choice to go back to life in the public eye (and subjecting the girls to it) seemed odd.  And I would have like to have seen more romance between Mat and Nealy, though their close proximity to the girls made intimacy difficult.  The kids (Lucy in particular) were almost more interesting than the adults and the epilogue was a little too cute and idealistic.  A flawed but still enjoyable read.	2003-09-23
US	40354595	R2WQL9ELCJZB7K	0380817918	83875654	Taming the Scotsman (The MacAllisters)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A flawed but still OK read	Is it just me or is this series going downhill?  I truly enjoyed CLAIMING THE HIGHLANDER.  BORN IN SIN was also enjoyable despite its heavy-handed use of the \\"tortured hero\\" (I mean really, could a person have had such a pathetic life?).  And now we have another pathetic but lovable hero in Ewan who refuses to absolve himself of his guilt over the death of his brother Kieran.  His self-flagellation got real old real fast.<br />The thing that salvages this story is our heroine Nora.  She's the typical MacGregor heroine - spunky, smart, sassy and beautiful.  Nora has come to Ewan to ask for his escort to England to escape a marriage she does not want - a situation eerily similar to what led to Kieran's suicide and an ugly clan war.  Ewan reluctantly helps Nora and in the course of things falls for her knowing that he does not deserve her or any happiness (urgh!).  So there you have the basic premise.  Nora loves Ewan, he loves her but feels he cannot have her, blah, blah, blah.<br />I notice that Ms MacGregor/Kenyon has felt the need to defend this book as well as her historical accuracy and credentials (see her review).  I must say that I've also always found her dialog and overall tone to be more contemporary than reflective of whatever time period she's writing about.  I'm not taking issue with historical accuracy, but with the lack of subtlety and depth in Ewan's character and in the rather thin plotting of this story.  I've always thought of the author's books as kind of the comics of historical romance (fun but not to be taken too seriously) but lately I think she's trying too hard for the tortured hero (with all the subtlety of a sledgehammer).  She does much better with lighter, less overtly tortured, sexy heroes like Braden from CLAIMING THE HIGHLANDER, Draven and Simon from MASTER OF DESIRE and her pirates Jack (MASTER OF SEDUCTION) and Morgan (A PIRATE OF HER OWN).   Or perhaps she's simply spreading herself too thin and losing her focus what with the new Brotherhood of the Sword medieval series and the Sex Camp series of contemporaries, not to mention her other works under Sherrilyn Kenyon.  <br />I'm in agreement with Kate Garrabrant - an OK read with a nice, steamy romance that will frustrate the more finicky, but if you're a diehard fan, you'll likely love it.  I will likely continue reading the rest in the MacAllister series and may even check out the Brotherhood books (at least Stryder's story) hoping that Ms MacGregor will return to the easier, breezier style of her earlier books.  She does humour so much better than angst!  Flawed but enjoyable.	2003-09-21
US	40354595	R1PC3S0OPMBRA0	0060508116	734187538	Fool for Love (Duchess in Love)	Books	3	22	22	N	N	3 1/2 Stars  Could have been better . . .	A sequel of sorts to DUCHESS IN LOVE, in that we follow Lady Esme Rawlings to the country where she is staying for the duration of her pregnancy.  For those who read DiL, you'll recall that Esme wanted to have a child and coaxed her estranged husband into spending the night with her to achieve it.  But not before an unexpected but much longed for sexual encounter with Sebastian, Marquis Bonnington the night before.  What Esme did not know was that her husband had a weak heart resulting in his death that night and now a guilt-ridden Esme is not sure who is the father of her child.  She has to believe that it's her husband's for inheritance sake but her heart may yearn for something else.<br />But one person who is suspicious is her nephew by marriage (and her late husband's heir) Simon Darby.  Simon has two young stepsisters to provide for and has always fully expected to inherit.  Now he is resolved to visit his aunt to see what's what.  While there he meets the intriguing Lady Henrietta Maclellan who just happens to be a beautiful, intelligent and wealthy heiress.  Hmmm, perhaps he should look for a wealthy wife in case Esme's child is a son!<br />Henrietta was born with the same lame hip as her mother who died in childbirth.  As a result, she has been advised never to marry and certain never to attempt to have children as it could kill her as it did her mother.  But she longs for children and when she meets Simon Darby and his two motherless sisters, she sees the family she's always wanted.  Simon and Henrietta are attracted to one another and decide to marry only to have her mother tell Simon about Henrietta's condition and that marital relations are out of the question.  A disappointed Simon withdraws his offer and plans to return to London.  But Esme is not so easily daunted by Henrietta's situation (there are ways to prevent pregnancy afterall) and together they scheme to trap Simon into marriage.  She'll get the husband and children she wants and he'll get the fortune he'll need.  What could be better?  Well, it turns out that Simon does not really need her fortune, but agrees to marry her anyway.  Does this mean that he has feelings for her - and she for him?  It seems a distinct possibility!<br />But that's where problems come into the story.  In the beginning, we are lead to believe that Simon needs her money, but we find out that he's actually quite wealthy.  And why would she not want to consult a London physician about her condition when her longing for a family is so strong?  And if Simon had wanted to marry her so badly, why did he not think of using sheaths before he is trapped into marrying her?  And the Esme/Sebastian storyline is not exactly resolved; leading me to wonder if they will be seen in yet another book that may just reunited estranged Helene and Rees, Lord and Lady Godwin.<br />While I enjoyed the relationship between Simon and Henrietta, Esme and Sebastian's reunion and the wit the author is famous for, there are also flaws that keep me from a higher rating.  Fans of the series, however, may well overlook such inconsistencies and wait eagerly for the next installment.  A flawed but still enjoyable read.	2003-09-14
US	40354595	R2HVQ9DWRIQVIF	082177512X	552953250	Say No to Joe? (Visitation, Book 1)	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Say what?  I think I've read my last Foster	I think I've finally come to accept that Lori Foster is simply not one of my favourite authors.  I've read six of her books and only two (TOO MUCH TEMPTATION and THE WINSTON BROTHERS) did I really think were better than average reads.  I've always felt that if you've read one, you've read them all, but had hoped that maybe with the obnoxiously over-confident, danger-loving, risk-taking Joe Winston, we'd see some stretch in the author's range.  Unfortunately, it was not to be . . .<br />We first met Joe Winston & Luna Clark in the less than stellar WILD where I found them more interesting than the lead couple.  After which I said I'd swear off Foster unless/until Joe's story came out (which I have).  Well here it is and I have to say that, though I enjoyed it on some levels, it was not what I had hoped for.  Unfortunately, it doesn't stray much from typical Foster fare:  boy meets girl, boy lusts after girl, boy and girl have sex, fall in love and get married.  Add two kids (Willow and Austin) that Luna has become responsible for and you get instant family.<br />My disappointment comes from the fact that, based on the characters we met in WILD, these are the last two people you would expect to \\"settle down\\" and yet they do so easily, quickly and happily.  At the start, Joe's a confirmed bachelor, former cop, former bounty hunter, PI, you name it who wants to get into Luna's pants bad.  Hardly dad material, right?  But within like a week he's acting like a husband and father.  And Luna, the spunky, carefree, quirky former psychic's assistant becomes June Cleaver all too easily.  The only difficulties they encounter are from outsiders in the small town where they live - and from one in particular who hopes to drive them away (for a pretty flimsy reason if you ask me).<br />OK, so what did I like about this book?  Joe.  He's so infuriatingly cocky and undeniably sexy and it was nice to see the \\"bad boy\\" try to prove himself worthy.  He's also smart and sweetly protective of Luna and the kids proving that he really will make a good husband and father.  And Luna is very likeable - smart, surprisingly nurturing and very attracted to Joe, but she wants more from him than just sex.  Who knew she'd get it?  And the teen romance between Willow and Clay Owen was real cute and sweet.  And I wonder if the sort of spooky, enigmatic Jamie Creed and will be seen again. An enjoyable read if you just want a sweet love story with a happy ending but it will likely be the last Lori Foster book I read.	2003-09-13
US	40354595	R78RX431479UA	0373273134	901031354	Night Watch (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 11)	Books	4	65	66	N	N	A more accurate title would have been ALL ABOUT WES!	Girls, if you're the saving type - you know, stray kittens, kicked puppies, men with low self-esteem so afraid of their emotions that they choose not to feel them - then Wes Skelly is the hero for you!  He's so emotionally closed down that he only allows himself to feel much of anything when he's drunk (not a pretty sight!).  This guy's going to need the mother of all savers!<br />And Brittany Evans is a saver if ever there was one!  A woman who adopted a thirteen-year-old \\"juvie\\" to save him from foster care (he's now nineteen and a baseball prodigy) she's also a nurse and a very nurturing sort.  But she's not nauseatingly sweet or annoyingly good.  She's smart, sassy and on occasion a smart aleck and I liked her a lot.  She fully recognizes her weakness for guys like Wes and so she tries to keep things light and casual when they are set up on a blind date.  A sweet friendship results and it is clear that these are two people that truly like each other.  All's well until she tries to help this intense emotional cripple to see the good and the positive in himself.  Well she's really got her work cut out for her as we hear all about (she's a \\"talk it out\\" kinda gal) every issue Wes has:  low self-esteem, height sensitivity, the death of a sibling, a cold, distant father, his possible drinking problem and his unrequited love for the wife of a friend.  Phew!  This guy either needs some serious therapy or an abundance of friendship and support from the most patient, understanding woman in the world!  Lucky for him he meets Britt.  <br />Don't get me wrong, I did like this story.  But if you've got little patience for this particular brand of tortured hero, consider yourself warned.  I'm a bit of a sucker for them myself on occasion, even though at times his problems seemed over the top.  But Wes is a very likeable guy and worth the effort, though it seems Britt is doomed to a life of reassuring him (it seems she wouldn't have it any other way).  And though I like Britt's character, we find out little about her other than what I've described above, that she's a great mom, that she's divorced from a guy who cheated on her and that she's jealous of Lana, Wes's unrequited love.  Contrasted with the mountain of stuff we learn about Wes, she seems a bit short-changed (a chronic problem of almost all Brockmann heroines).  But their friendship is sweet and their passion is hot!  The background story of Lana's TV star sister's stalker, mainly serves to provide the expected, exciting SEAL Team Ten climax of the story.<br />If you are a fan of the Tall Dark & Dangerous series, I think you'll like this book.  It's a quick and enjoyable read and it pretty much wraps up all the guys from Alpha Squad, though we are briefly introduced to \\"the new guy\\" Rio Rosetti.  Could book 12 be in the works?  A recommended read!	2003-09-13
US	40354595	R1S4VV4QU2IDI8	155166948X	34594744	Prince Joe (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 1)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	4 1/2 *s - Can a sailor be turned into a prince in 3 days?	FRISCO'S KID was the first Brockmann book I had read and now I am hooked on the TDD series.  The first three books in this series have recently been re-issued (with MUCH better covers than their original releases - what were they thinking with those hokey covers?).  First was PRINCE JOE, second FOREVER BLUE and third FRISCO.  Looking forward to the re-issues of EVERYDAY AVERAGE JONES in spring 2004 and HARVARD'S EDUCATION coming July 2004.  I hope all of the books in the series are re-issued and soon or I may have to look for them used.<br />Navy SEAL Joe Catalanotto is enjoying his leave fishing with friends when a chopper approaches their rented boat, drops a ladder and over the loudspeaker a voice announces \\"Lieutenant Joseph P Catalanotto, your shore leave is over\\".  And just like that Joe finds himself whisked off to Washington, DC with no idea of why or what his mission might be.  He finds himself face to face with media consultant Veronica St John who breaks the bad news:  because of his uncanny resemblance to Prince Tedric of Ustanzia, he is to impersonate the prince on his US tour.  The prince has been the target of an assassination attempt and they need Joe to act as the Prince until the terrorists are caught.  Joe balks at first since he hates Tedric - because of Tedric, one of Joe's guys (Frisco) was seriously wounded when they rescued him from Baghdad years before.  But Joe ultimately agrees to the plan.<br />Veronica St John certainly has her work cut out for her!  She has to turn this rough, Jersey-accented sailor into a suave European prince in three days!  While Joe is confident and cocky that he can play this part, Veronica is not so sure.  He's more interested in the strategy and security aspect of his mission than getting down Tedric's mannerisms, accent and background - much to Veronica's frustration.  She thinks he's not taking her seriously, but boy is she wrong.  Joe takes her very seriously and he's starting to become attracted to her.  Butuncharacteristically, he's unsure - she's a rich, classy, professional who spends time in the company of royalty.  While he hates this feeling of inadequacy, he starts to wonder if maybe she's out of his league.  But he's a SEAL, the best of the best for God's sake!  And anyway, he thinks he sees interest in her eyes, so why not go for it?<br />Oh, she's interested all right, but she's also wary of getting involved with a Navy SEAL who risks his life everyday - and enjoys it!  It would be very difficult to watch him leave on a mission not knowing if he will come back.  But being together so much with this undercurrent of attraction is bound to lead to something - and so it does.  And as the tour moves on with Joe impersonating the prince, making himself a target each day, her feelings intensify as well as her fears.  She's not sure she can live like this, always worrying for him.  For Joe, things couldn't be better.  The job's a cakewalk and he's got a girl he's crazy about.  But when the terrorists are caught and the job is over will their relationship remain?<br />Joe is a great character, just so cute and cocky and sweet and tough.  But a couple of issues: the end seems a bit rushed with the resolution to their conflict a little too easy, and I've heard this before about this author, while Joe's character is pretty well developed Ronnie could have used a bit more depth and dimension.  But I still love and recommend this book highly!	2003-09-05
US	40354595	R36QLOMKR45GXZ	0312983743	368981056	Knock Me Off My Feet	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another terrific, funny, thoroughly enjoyable Donovan read	When writing about Irish-American families (and I am of Irish descent) there's a thin line between pride in one's heritage and ridiculous cliches and stereotyping (one reason I hated the movie The Brothers McMullen - oh yes, we always wear Aran sweaters, Guinness T-shirts and carry our shillelaghs!).  With the Quinn family the author walks to the edge, but doesn't cross the line - well maybe a toe or two over.  Police detective Stacey Quinn is from a large rambunctious Irish family very free with the laughs, hugs and tears.  Autumn \\"Audie\\" Adams is from a wealthy, cold and dysfunctional WASP family, which has had the unconscious effect of sabotaging her relationships with men.<br />Audie's mother was Chicago's version of Martha Stewart, Homey Helen, and since her death the year before, Audie has reluctantly stepped into the role.  She'd rather go back to her teaching and soccer coaching, but she made a deathbed promise to her mom to carry on with Helen.  But when she begins to receive death threats and sick gifts, it looks as though someone does not like the new Helen.  Audie is finally persuaded to involve the police, so enter detective Quinn. <br />Quinn and his partner have been assigned to her case, and Quinn is attracted from the word GO!  She's his fantasy come true - a combination of Martha Stewart and Carmen Electra - or so he thinks.  But the more he gets to know her, the less she fulfills that fantasy.  Oh, she's beautiful and sexy, but she's no Martha.  She can't cook or keep house, she's a bit of a slob and has definite klutz tendencies (she refers to herself as \\"kind of a spaz\\").  So why does his attraction keep getting stronger?<br />Audie is no less attracted to Quinn, but to her chagrin, part of his investigation includes digging into her (failed) past romantic relationships in case one of her ex-boyfriends is the stalker.  How humiliating, now he'll find out exactly how much of a spaz she really is!  But to her surprise, his interest has not waned and after a few dinners and a sail on Lake Michigan she finds herself meeting his family.  What a revelation that is!  These people are warm, gregarious, feisty and fun - nothing like her sterile, cold unemotional family.  It's almost too much for Audie - that feeling of belonging, warmth and joy.  Is it possible for her to be a part of that?  Is she capable of loving someone and being a part of a family?  Her doubts cause all sorts of problems.  And there is still a stalker to be caught, and since one of the suspects, one of her ex's, is also a guy Quinn has hated since childhood, is he able to be objective or are there other suspects that make more sense?  Who would gain the most if Audie quit being Homey Helen?  Read this book and find out!<br />Susan Donovan is fast becoming a favourite author for me.  I also loved her second book Take a Chance on Me.  I enjoy her sassy sense of humour and her warm, often quirky way with characters.  I look forward to reading her 3rd book, Public Displays of Affection, when it comes out.  Highly recommended!	2003-09-05
US	40354595	R1Z74K7IBPTUTZ	1551667592	664899351	Frisco's Kid (Tall, Dark & Dangerous, Book 3)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	When a SEAL can't be a SEAL anymore, what's left?	I should never have read this book.  With all the books on my TBR shelf, the last thing I needed was to discover this author and her Tall Dark and Dangerous series about sexy, charming and brave Navy SEALs.  Sure I had heard of Suzanne Brockmann, but I had never read any of her books.  Now I am hooked on the TDD series and have already read (and enjoyed) PRINCE JOE and FOREVER BLUE.  This one's a serious story about a man on the edge of despair and the little girl and the woman who help him see that his life is not over just because he can no longer be an active-duty SEAL.<br />Alan \\"Frisco\\" Francisco was wounded in Baghdad while trying to extricate a prince (Tedric from PRINCE JOE) from behind enemy lines.  His knee is shot and now, so is his career making him feel like a useless nobody.  He returns to his condo in San Felipe and wallows in self-pity, drinking himself to sleep at night.  When he meets his beautiful neighbor, teacher Mia Summerton, he's not exactly at his best and she decides to keep away from her rude, drunk neighbor.  <br />But when Frisco's always-in-trouble alcoholic sister shows up with her daughter and asks him to take care of the little girl while she goes into detox, Frisco has to think about someone other than himself.  He's not exactly in the right condition to handle a five-year-old girl, but he's doing the best he can.  Mia has noticed this and re-evaluates her original opinion of him.  She begins to offer subtle support to Frisco and in his first steps toward healing he begins to accept her help.  A friendship grows between them (along with an attraction), but Mia is wary of getting involved with a man with so many issues to resolve.  But the more she is with him, she sees that he's kind, intelligent, brave and he clearly loves little Natasha.  It's getting harder and harder to keep her distance!<br />Frisco is also becoming more attracted and attached to Mia, but what can he offer her?  He's a disabled nobody and she deserves so much more.  And when a thug that his sister lived with (and stole from) shows up looking for his money and threatening Natasha and Mia, all his frustration and feelings of helplessness re-emerge full force.  Will he ask for help from his SEAL team members or will he try to deal with it by himself and be injured or killed in the process?<br />I loved this story.  Frisco is so sadly sweet, proud and brave and Mia is so understanding and supportive.  And then there's Natasha whose presence is the catalyst for Frisco's return to the land of the living.  For a man who defined himself through being a SEAL, accepting his limitations while acknowledging all the things he still can do was painful and poignant.  You felt his humiliation and frustration, but you never pitied him.  You knew he'd find his way through - with the help of a good woman, an irrepressible little girl and a few SEALs from Alpha Squad.  Highly recommended!	2003-09-05
US	40354595	R1T0CSZG5QGO3K	0553585843	764179298	Fountain of Secrets (Akora)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another enjoyable story of Akora	Gavin Hawkforte, heir presumptive to the English earl of Hawkforte is also half Akoran through his mother, the Princess Kassandra (from the author's 5th book \\"Kingdom of Moonlight\\").  Though his destiny is in England, his heart has always been in Akora.  Being of a logical and scientific bent of mind, he has been spending many months making geological surveys of the various islands that make up Akora.  He, along with the Vanax Atreus, ruler of Akora (and Gavin's uncle) have become concerned that the volcano that nearly decimated Akora centuries ago has again reawakened.  While taking measurements on the uninhabited island of Deimos, he encounters a young woman who has been living their alone (since the death of her mother) and who has also observed the changes in the island's geology - much to Gavin's surprise.  What is this intelligent, independent (not to mention beautiful) young woman doing living on this desolate island all alone?  She presents a mystery that Gavin is determined to solve.<br />Persephone has never seen such a handsome warrior.  Not that she has lived in total isolation, as she has traveled to the other islands of Akora as well as to the capital city of Illius to the great library in the palace.  She had intended to go to Illius to share her geological observations with the Vanax and his council, but this prince of Akora has come to her.  And now, he asks her to return with him to Illius to help convince the council that action must be taken to evacuate Akora in the event of an imminent eruption.  While she will do all she can to save Akora, she is reluctant to share anything about herself with Gavin.  What if he should find out about her disgrace?  Would he stop looking at her with such warmth in his eyes?<br />As they work together to convince the council, as well as the Akoran people, they fall for one another.  But is their love doomed by the imminent threat or by the diverse destinies each believes awaits them? Though a little light on plot,the lead couple are engaging and likable - which was a relief from me, as I have never particularly warmed-up to the Hawkforte men.  Gavin's father Royce (KoM) and their distant ancestor Hawk from 2nd book \\"Believe in Me\\" were both a bit too humorless, authoritarian and autocratic for me (Hawk less so than Royce).  But luckily, the same cannot be said of Gavin.  He's smart, logical, warm and even has a sense of humor!  Another enjoyable story of Akora from Ms. Litton.  I look forward to cousin Clio's story Fountain of Fire, the last in this trilogy.	2003-09-02
US	40354595	R1743UZH2VTS61	0505524279	592885667	Baby, Oh Baby! (Time of Your Life)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	4 1/2 stars - poignant, sweet, unusual	Not sure how I stumbled onto this book - must have seen it on someone's Listmania list.  Anyway, the reviews were positive and the story sounded intriguing and unusual.  A man who lost his wife in a car accident discovers two years after her death that the fertility clinic they were using to have a baby had allowed his sperm to be used as a \\"donor\\" for another woman!<br />Attorney Jake Chastaine has not been handling his wife's death well.  He's become short-tempered, sarcastic and surly but that just masks the loneliness and sense of loss he feels.  Imagine his outrage, not to mention his feeling of being cheated, when he discovers that his sperm was used to impregnate a woman he's never met - resulting in a little girl he never knew existed!  Well that's going to change - and soon!<br />Annie Hollister is a single mom (by choice) living a quiet life on her alpaca ranch and reading tea leaves for friends.  When a gorgeous man shows up on her doorstep she assumes he's the nephew of friend here for a reading.  Boy is she ever wrong.  When he tells her that he is the father of baby Madeline, she is shocked to the core and the very real fear of losing her daughter or even having to share her with this stranger looms large and threatening.  Their encounter shakes them both, with Jake throwing around threats of legal action and Annie simply panicking and contemplating fleeing the state.<br />Once emotions, distrust and antagonisms lessen, they decide to try to compromise for the baby's sake, and in order to give Madeline an easier start in life (without having to explain her complicated conception all her life) they agree to marry for six months and then divorce.  This way Madeline will have a more normal family background.  But when feelings develop, what then?  Annie feels she can't compete with the seeming perfection of his first wife's memory.  While Jake is surprised to find himself attracted to Annie who is so different from practical, logical Rachel - and from himself.  This could never work in the long-term - could it?<br />This is the sweet story of quirky, free-spirited Annie and logical, buttoned-down Jake and how surprisingly right they just might be for one another.  There's also the poignant secondary story of how Jake's in-laws, Tom and Susanna cope with their marital difficulties stemming from their still raw grief over the loss of their daughter, compounded by the news about baby Madeline and their very different reactions to that news.  <br />The author's sense of humor is a bit on the cornball, goofy, hokey side for my taste and at times seems forced (the billboards, the twinkies, his initial, stereotypical incompetence in caring for the baby) and kinda got on my nerves.  But I found the story so interesting, and felt invested in the two relationships here - Jake & Annie and Tom & Susanna - that I didn't mind too much.  A recommended read.	2003-09-02
US	40354595	RTC2HTFNHQIJ5	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Funny, poignant, sweet, and enjoyable	I discovered this book through my Amazon.com friend Janlouise's review and decided to check it out - and I'm glad I did!  My only prior SEP book was BREATHING ROOM, but now I think I'm going to have to read all the books in the Bonner Brothers/Chicago Stars series.  BUT I must say that you have to suspend belief a bit in the beginning.  For a woman supposedly so smart, some of her ideas and the way she goes about getting pregnant are kind of ridiculous (since when are only smart guys sperm donors?!).<br />Brilliant physicist Dr Jane Darlington wants a child desperately, but there's no man in her life and she has some specific requirements for a potential father, so she decides a dumb jock like Chicago Stars quarterback Cal Bonner will perfectly suit her needs.  See Jane had a very sad and lonely childhood isolated from the other kids who thought she was some sort of brainiac freak (she was in college at 16).  She figures that his lack of smarts will balance out her abundance of them (?!) and her kid will have a better life than she did.  So she poses as a hooker and allows herself to be Cal's birthday gift from his teammates.  Soon she is ecstatically pregnant but her ecstasy doesn't last long.  Unfortunately for Jane, Cal finds out and he's NOT happy about it (nor is he as dumb as she assumed he was - summa cum laude not dumb - how did her plan go so wrong?!).  His strong sense of family drives him to marry Jane with every intention of divorcing her once the baby is born.  But the press won?t leave them alone, so he takes her to his hometown of Salvation, NC to hide out for a bit.  <br />Slowly their mutual anger and dislike for each other starts to fade, but Cal doesn't want his family to get too attached to Jane and asks her to be cold and unpleasant around them.  She reluctantly does so, though it hurts because his family is so nice.  But time spent together starts to change things between them (there's certainly a strong sexual attraction) and as they get to know one another will they stay together or is there just too much between them to make this marriage work?<br />I liked Cal's character a lot (some disliked him in the beginning, but I felt he was totally justified in his anger toward Jane) and I laughed out loud at Jane's tampering with his Lucky Charms!  Then there's his attempt to give her the make-out session at the drive-in that she never had as a teenager.  That was sweet - and, okay, self-serving!  And I loved how he would put on his \\"hillbilly-from-the-sticks-dumb-jock\\" act on for people he disliked or disrespected.  I also found Cal's family enjoyable to read about:  his brother Ethan (who gets his story in Dream a Little Dream), his sassy grandmother Annie and his parents who are in the midst of a mid-life marriage crisis.  A really enjoyable book and I will definitely be checking out the rest in the series.  A recommended read!	2003-08-29
US	40354595	R1N8Z5BM419JQF	0758204531	86146164	Standing in the Shadows (The McCloud Brothers, Book 2)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Another intense, compelling, sexy McKenna read!	Connor McCloud is a former FBI agent who was almost killed when an investigation went bad.  He spent two months in a coma and still suffers from the burns and a leg injury he sustained in the explosion.  Since leaving the FBI six months ago, he's been wallowing in depression and self-pity until he learns that the man responsible for his injuries and the death of his partner - his nemesis, Kurt Novak - has escaped from prison.  Though his former FBI co-workers assure him that Novak is in France, Connor cannot shake the feeling that Novak is closer to home and a threat to Erin Riggs, the daughter of Connor's former FBI boss.  Ed Riggs, unbeknownst to his family or co-workers had been corrupt for years and his corruption contributed to the death of Jesse and wounding of Connor.  He was also blackmailed (with the threat of Erin's abduction) into working for Novak, but failed in his task contributing to Novak's incarceration.  Connor is sure Novak will want revenge and decides that if the authorities will not protect Erin, he will.  After all, he's been silently in love with her for years.  But since it was his testimony that put her father in prison and brought her family ruin, will she even accept protection from him?  Man, she must hate him!<br />Erin Rigg's life could not get much worse.  After all the mess with her father, she lost the job she loved in the Celtic antiquities section of a museum, her sister has begun to run wild, basically dropping out of college and she fears that her mom is losing her mind.  If it weren't for the couple of freelance jobs authenticating Celtic artifacts for millionaire philanthropist Claude Mueller, she'd have no income at all.  She's finally going to meet the reclusive Mueller in person on a job out of state, so maybe things are finally looking up.  But when Connor McCloud shows up at her place, the ground shifts under her feet.  She's adored Connor since she was 17, never showing it or acting on it and especially not after learning of her dad's corruption and involvement in Connor's near-death.  Man, he must hate her!  <br />The ground shakes again when Connor tells her that Novak is again on the loose and that he has appointed himself her bodyguard.  Of course she balks at this, especially since she's set to meet Mueller at a resort for her latest job.  Connor smells a rat and shows up at the airport to meet her flight and refuses to let her out of his sight.  Spending so much time in close proximity unleashes their deep, passionate feelings and they finally become lovers after all those years.  But as days pass, Erin is persuaded to think that Connor is obsessed with Novak and that he sees threats that are not really there.  Especially when it comes to Mueller who has now offered Erin the job of a lifetime that will put her family and life back together - and Connor questions why.  Is Connor's obsession making him a little crazy or is he the only one who recognizes the true threat?<br />This sequel to Behind Closed Doors is more of the same dark, complex and compelling storytelling with a really creepy, psycho villain and a really steamy love story.  We get a bit more background on the McCloud brothers and their unorthodox upbringing by their unstable, Vietnam vet, survivalist dad and I would bet that stories will be forthcoming for Davy and Sean and I look forward to them!  And I have to wonder about Connor's former FBI co-worker Nick Ward - is he a good guy or a bad guy?  I still can't decide.  Ms McKenna really knows how to write believable male characters who are as flawed as they are smart and sexy.  She's an author to keep your eye on!  Highly recommended.	2003-08-08
US	40354595	RHBHNA1XYWHWU	0758203187	112368527	Behind Closed Doors (The McCloud Brothers, Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Intense, suspenseful, erotic & riveting.  Great new author!	Definitely R-rated (maybe even NC-17!) for adult content, adult language, sex and violence.  A darkly intense story that started out a bit slow, but then drew me in to the point that many, many things I should have done did not get done because I could not tear myself away from this book!  <br />If you prefer sensitive, sweet obvious heroes don't even bother with this book, 'cause there are none to be found within these pages!  Bruised, battered, hard, tough, yet inherently good guys, yes - but no softies here.  Seth Mackey and his friends the McCloud brothers (Connor, Sean & Davy) are looking for some serious revenge against the men responsible for the death of their friend Jesse (Seth's brother and Connor's FBI partner).  They've set the trap for their two victims and have surveillance equipment everywhere - including the townhouse of Victor Lazar's mistress, which is currently occupied by the luscious Raine Cameron.<br />Victor Lazar is a wealthy man who is easily bored and so occasionally flirts with the illegal and the darkside.  He amuses himself by manipulating others and his latest subject is psycho thug, murderer and sometime co-conspirator Kurt Novak (the man who killed Jesse).  His own niece, Raine is not even immune from his machinations when he purposely throws her into the path of the sexy, predatory Seth just to see what she's made of.  Little does she know that Seth has become obsessed with her after weeks of watching her via the surveillance video.  <br />He assumes she is Victor's latest mistress (he figures she's a sex toy so he doesn't have to treat her real nice), and she thinks he is a security consultant working for Victor (a partial truth/cover to get into Lazar's offices to plant bugs, etc) and the kind of bad boy she's never had the nerve to go after - until now.  When they meet, it's combustible!  And while a sexual relationship begins, they're both keeping secrets about who they are and what they're working toward.  He's dedicated to bringing Lazar and Novak down to avenge Jesse.  She's trying to find evidence that Victor, her own uncle, murdered her father.  Of course they're all on a collision course toward disaster when things slip out of Victor's control and into Novak's.  Several factors come into play including blackmail, murder attempts, the corruption of Connor's FBI boss and Raine's memories and the ripples her \\"investigation\\" into her father's death create.  And then there's the romance that develops from the initially rocky sexual relationship between Raine and Seth - two people who've experienced little affection or security in their lives.  It was great to see Raine evolve from polite doormat to a woman who could stand up to both the surly, overbearing Seth and the enigmatic and manipulative Victor.  And in the process she touches the deeply hidden and wounded heart of Seth who reluctantly begins to trust her just knowing it's probably a mistake.  Is he right?<br />I loved this book, but be warned, the language is rough and so is the sex on occasion.  I also loved Seth though many may not, as he is capable of being a real Jerk with a capital J.  And Victor's character is not your cookie-cutter bad guy - he's interesting and complicated (though Novak is definitely creepy!).  And the McCloud brothers are lots of fun secondary characters that we'll see more of in future books.  Sequel STANDING IN THE SHADOWS is Connor's story (also a great read!).  Definitely dark, intense and complex with compelling characters - this author is one to watch!  Highly recommended!	2003-08-08
US	40354595	R37B375LDJZ3Y1	0312983751	70656303	Take a Chance on Me	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Warm, funny, tender, sweet  - a wonderfully enjoyable read!	I had so much fun reading this book! Susan Donovan is a new author for me and this is my first book by her (though it's actually her second - Knock Me Off My Feet is her first). She has a great sense of humour and a nice way with characters - I laughed out loud often reading this book!<br />Thomas Tobin works on a Maryland State Police task force and poses as a hitman for hire. Given his line of work (not to mention his personal experiences), he's got little faith in human nature and figures everyone has a dark side. He discovers his best informant dead and his weird little dog nearby. He takes the dog, \\"Hairy\\", home with him only to discover that he has some serious behavioral problems and soon finds himself in the office of vet/animal behaviorist Dr Emma Jenkins. He finds Emma very attractive in an open, fresh farm-girl way, but he fights it since he's vowed never to get involved with another woman after his last disastrous relationship. But he can't help his attraction and winds up sending out some serious mixed signals!<br />Emma has recently divorced a husband who was unfaithful, reckless with money and who never really appreciated her. She's working hard to keep her practice afloat and she's also become guardian to 12 year old Leelee, the daughter of her wild, reckless, and now deceased best friend. And now the most gorgeous man she's ever seen has waltzed into her life, but he leaves her so confused, she's not sure he's worth the effort (is he a moron, a nut or Mr Right?). But when he tells her he believes that Hairy may have witnessed the murder, and asks her to help him look for clues, she can't resist. And while working on the case, they fall for one another but will old patterns repeat or is this finally the real thing?<br />Being born and raised in suburban Maryland and currently living in Baltimore City, I thoroughly enjoyed having the state and city featured as the setting for this book and knowing the areas she references I could picture the action. The disco references at the beginning of each chapter were very cute and well used (especially when you find out about Hairy's special talent!) and any book that details a dog's inner dialog is bound to be a hit with me! Hairy is a terrific character - just as important to the story as his two-legged counterparts! Thomas and Emma are appealing characters and a great couple. Leelee is both street smart and vulnerable as she tries to figure out her place in Emma's life and whether Thomas is a threat to her new found family. An author to watch and a book that is highly recommended! I'm off to read Knock Me Off My Feet next!	2003-08-08
US	40354595	RXPS8YRUC8A1E	0804119805	396185159	The Prince of Pleasure (Notorious)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	4 1/2 *s - Lush, sexy, angst-ridden story of lost love found	Who would ever believe that Jeremy Adair \\"Dare\\" North, Marquess of Wolverton, the handsome, sexy self-indulgent member of the infamous Hellfire League actually suffers from a broken heart?!  And now the woman responsible has just re-entered his life after seven long years.  She is Julienne Laurent, the current darling of the London stage.  <br />Julienne is a very sympathetic character, though I doubt I would have made the sacrifices she did!  She and her mother fled Revolutionary France when Julienne was four years old and made a living in their millinery shop in Kent - a far cry from their aristocratic background as wife and daughter of the guillotined Comte de Folmont. During one of Dare's rare visits to the family pile that extended to the entire summer, he and Julienne fell in love and planned to marry, much to Dare's grandfather's displeasure.  To keep Dare from being disinherited, and to protect herself from trumped-up treason charges, she feels she has no choice but to succumb to his grandfather's manipulations and lets Dare believe the worst of her knowing she will lose him forever.   But she swallowed her pain and ugly memories and clawed her way out of scandal and poverty to become Drury Lane's most renowned actress.<br />As a favor to his friend Lucian, the earl of Wycliff, Dare is hunting infamous traitor Lord Caliban and suspects that he may be one of Julienne's many suitors, so in order to better observe his quarry, he very publicly joins the candidates vying to become her protector.  Julienne can think of only one reason why Dare would pursue her - revenge.  As they spend time in each other's company, both Dare and Julienne try desperately to hide their deep vulnerability to one another.  Though Dare repeatedly bemoans how she wronged him (it got a bit old), we discover that it is Julienne who has truly suffered and born her pain with quiet dignity (women really are the stronger sex!).  When Julienne agrees to work with Dare to unmask Caliban, the old feelings rise to the surface to ensnare both in a passion that really never died.  But can past hurts be forgiven or forgotten so easily?  Is the love they found seven years ago still alive? <br />A few minor issues: personally, I found the pace a little on the slow side, though the intrigue was well executed - there were several possibilities as to who Caliban was, so it kept the reader guessing.  And it bothered me that Dare was so willing to believe the worst of Julienne (then and now) when he supposedly loved her so (luckily he sheds much of his childish self-centeredness by the end).  And then the author left Gray hanging at the end - he disappeared from Lucian's Highland castle, but we are left in the dark as to what becomes of him (perhaps he will appear in a future book - I know she is planning a new trilogy.).<br />But in true Jordan style, there are plenty of spicy sexual encounters and ultimately, a love that survives the most arduous of tests!  Recommended!	2003-07-27
US	40354595	R2JDIYVIT2KLXD	0515134899	385176147	Body Check (New York Blades)	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Can girl convince jock that the game isn't everything?	You may have heard this one described as a \\"hockey book\\" but it's really not.  For me, hockey was background for the story and since I'm not a fan and know little about the game, I don't share some of the complaints other readers had about the minutia of the sport.<br />All handsome, driven team captain Ty Gallagher wants is to win another Stanley Cup.  He has no intention of cooperating in the image makeover the owners want to impose in the form of pretty, sexy new publicist Janna MacNeil.  His repeated refusals (Lord, was he stubborn!) to participate in the various charity and other feel-good events Janna organizes result in some fiery exchanges.  And eventually the sexual sparks between them turn into a \\"casual\\" sexual relationship.  But when crunchtime comes with the approach of the playoffs will Ty choose hockey over his relationship with Janna?  Was it really just \\"casual sex\\" or was it something more?<br />I enjoyed this story, but I thought there were some things that could have been better.  There needed to be a bit more sexual chemistry between Janna and Ty.  As others have pointed out, much of their together time is told in remembrance and would have been better seen first person (i.e., more sex, please!).  And the evolution of Ty's feelings for Janna was not well drawn, making his decisions and actions at the end seem slightly out of character and abrupt.<br />And I know I shouldn't compare, but this book is much more on the cute, warm, charming side than Rachel Gibson's two hockey stories Simply Irresistible and See Jane Score which I found a bit edgier and thus more realistic.  But her boss Lou was too cute and kid brother Wills adorable.  And I look forward to Janna's roommate Theresa's story Fair Play.  The excerpt was fun and it looks like fellow hockey jock Michael will need all of his good humor and perseverance in the face of rejection to crack that nut! <br />An enjoyable read and a good first novel!	2003-07-19
US	40354595	R1LEVDFITY4MX1	0425190927	622422263	The Wife Test	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Ms Krahn has done it again!	Terrific characters, subtle wit and well-researched period authenticity.  Those who read and enjoyed The Husband Test will be delighted to once again experience the wily intelligence of the abbess of the Convent of the Brides of Virtue and her charges.  When English King Edward holds a French duke for ransom, he contrives to send his daughters as brides to the king in lieu of a ransom - never mind the fact that he has no daughters!  He asks the abbess to send four of her charges, which he will adopt as his illegitimate offspring.  And so the king sends trusted knight Sir Hugh of Sennet to escort the maidens to England.<br />Chloe de Guibray was left as an infant on the steps of the convent and has little knowledge of her parentage.  Now she has risked everything to travel to England where she believes the answers lie.  She's passed herself off as one of the \\"brides\\" and winds up as their leader of sorts and a thorn in Sir Hugh's side.   She's not afraid to stand up to him even while worrying that he finds her \\"objectionable\\".  As the days pass, she wistfully contemplates how much she and the grumpy (but handsome) Hugh have in common, but his rigid beliefs preclude friendship of any sort - or anything else for that matter.  What a shame . . .<br />The dutiful, brave, intense and gruff Hugh resents his mission and is rather unpleasant to the ladies in his care.  It surely seems to the maidens that the testy Sir Hugh hates women, but that's really not the case.  Hugh was raised in a monastery and in typical old church style, was taught that women are responsible for the lust that men feel and thus, should be avoided at all costs if one is not to be corrupted.  Well, Hugh's thoughts of Chloe are certainly of a corruptible nature and have him confessing his impure thoughts as soon as they arrive at Windsor (his confession was hysterical in its detail and enumeration!)  Still, it was nice to see a man with a strong moral compass (perhaps too strong!) for a change.  But will Hugh let his dedication to the church eclipse his growing feelings for Chloe?  And, much to Hugh's frustration, the King seems to keep throwing he and Chloe together commanding that they jointly determine which maids will marry which nobles.  But is someone trying to keep the marriages from happening - to the point of endangering the \\"brides\\"?<BR> <BR>On the negative side, I felt the pace was a bit on the slow side and you'll likely find yourself wanting to strangle Hugh - you've never seen a man fight his attraction so hard!  A big positive is Chloe.  She's a really terrific heroine - smart, open-minded, plucky, kind and patient (Lord is she patient!).  <br />A thoroughly enjoyable and recommend read!	2003-07-19
US	40354595	R2K9U2K7B9A62K	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Holy Moly!  This one will have you hot & bothered!	Janelle Denison, a master of sensual stories, introduces us to a couple that explore all manner of sexual fantasies from phone sex, to light restraint, to using food products as sexual stimuli (sorry but that one was just not for me - I couldn't stand to get all sticky like that!).  But the hunter and quarry game they played through Steve's house was really hot!  Needless to say, if you can't take lots of explicit sex scenes (or a man that really likes to dominate in bed) this book is not for you!<br />But don't let all the sexual content lead you to believe that that's all there is.  Steve and Liz are both likeable characters who meet at just the right time in each other's lives.  Both have had failed marriages that are now several years behind them and, though neither quite recognizes it at the start of their affair, both are ready for the right person to come along.<br />Unbeknownst to one another, they both have been having erotic fantasies about each other for the past month.  But not until Liz Adams hires PI Steve Wilde to find her wayward cousin do they act on their strong mutual attraction.  In order to find her cousin Valerie, who seems to have disappeared with one of her phone sex clients, Liz takes a job at the same place where Val worked while Steve calls in acting as a client.  Of course this verbal foreplay just adds fuel to their already smoldering fire and convinces Liz's listening boss that she's hooked a client that will spend lots of money on the company's various services.  As they were hoping, they gain access to the \\"playboy mansion\\" of sorts and uncover information that brings them closer to finding Valerie.  Meanwhile, real emotions have started to emerge, and when it's no longer just sex, are they prepared for something more or will their relationship end once Valerie is found?  Ms Denison has created a sweet couple that the reader hopes will find happiness together.  A recommended read.<br />By the way, it is completely obvious that the love/hate relationship between Steve's \\"Wilde child\\" cousin Mia and his business partner and friend Cameron will be it's own sexy, stormy story sometime soon!  Looking forward to it!	2003-07-11
US	40354595	R3RZFG4WL2ZBC8	0312978715	925483129	Dear Cupid	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cute story of love at first sight - at least for one of them	With this book, I've now read all of Ms Ortolon's books to-date and she is a consistently enjoyable read.  <br />Mike Cameron is a computer/sci-fi geek (he reminded me a bit of my brother-in-law!) and works as a computer animations/special effects expert in the movie biz.  A handsome, sweet, good natured, often boyish, genuinely nice guy who falls hard when he meets Kate Bradshaw while waiting for a flight.  He's just come from his 20th high school reunion and has been re-evaluating his life.  While he loves his job (maybe a little too much), he realizes that there is a hole in his life that needs to be filled - with a wife and maybe a kid or two.  And just as this realization dawns, a woman drops her purse right at his feet.  After helping her collect her belongings, he looks up into her green eyes and his mind turns to mush.<br />Kate writes romance advice column \\"Dear Cupid\\" but lately her advice has been cynical and caustic (especially toward men) and if she doesn't get some romance back into her attitude, her column will be canceled.  Kate is a divorced, single mom to 7-year-old Dylan with an ex who was (and still is) more interested in his career than his family.  No wonder she's bitter!  Her editor's threat prompts Kate to see if she still has it in her to flirt shamelessly with a man, and the next thing you know, she's dropping her purse at a very attractive man's feet!<br />After flirting openly with him, she practically runs away, but Mike finds a business card that fell out of her purse that will lead him to Kate.  Sensing that she's a bit prickly, instead of asking her out directly, he asks her to turn him into \\"marriage material\\" and to help find him a wife.  He just doesn't tell her that she's the wife he has in mind!  <br />While Mike was completely lovable, Kate unfortunately comes across a bit of a shrew at times.  Her \\"all men are alike\\" attitude made no sense when anyone could see that Mike was nothing like her ex.  And I understood her concern for her son, but her over-protectiveness of asthmatic Dylan often had the effect of humiliating him in front of others.  Luckily Mike was more laid back (a nice counter-balance to Kate) and Dylan discovers he has more in common with him than with his own father.  But Kate worries about her son becoming too attached to a man who may not stick around for the long haul.  Well, if she thinks that, she's doesn't know Mike very well!<br />One thing I didn't get was why a guy who was born and raised in Santa Monica, CA and who works in the movie business would move from LA to Austin, TX!  Seemed strange to me.  Anyway a very enjoyable read!	2003-07-10
US	40354595	R2ZWB88Z9P0G5G	0553585835	544649541	Fountain of Dreams (Akora)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great start to a new Akoran trilogy	And now for the Akora Trilogy - the Next Generation!  Having read all of Ms. Litton's books about the thousand years of history interconnecting the families of Akora, Hawkforte and their Viking ancestors, this new generation again brings that history alive.  Niels Wolfson is an American descended from Viking Wolf Harkonson from Ms Litton's first book \\"Dream of Me\\".  Amelia Darcourt is the daughter of half-English, half-Akoran Alex Darcourt, Marquess of Boswick AKA Prince Alexandros of Akora and Lady Joanna Hawkforte from her 4th book \\"Dream Island\\".  <br />Niels is a man on a mission and that mission is to determine if the Akorans (specifically Amelia's cousin Prince Andreas) were behind an attack on an American sailing vessel that was about to leave Baltimore for a reconnaissance mission to Akora.  In order to insinuate and ingratiate himself into the Akorans' circle, he creates a fake kidnapping of the Princess Amelia from which he \\"rescues\\" her.  Grateful, they extend their friendship to Niels and as he spends more and more time with these warm and close knit people, he begins to wonder if they could really be involved in the explosion of the Defiant.  But if they're not responsible, who is?  He also finds himself extremely attracted to the lively and unpredictable Amelia, but any attraction to her is doomed and outright foolish if the Akorans are guilty. <br />Amelia is no less attracted to the enigmatic Niels.  As with many women of her family she has a \\"gift\\" in that she can read what is in a person's heart.  But in Niels' heart, she reads regret - but for what?  When she discovers the truth of why Niels is here and what he suspects she is appalled.  And when his brother is attacked by an unknown assailant using an Akoran knife, how can she prove to him that her family, her people would never be involved in something so dastardly?  Is their fragile attraction truly doomed?<br />A great story driven by two great characters.  Niels is cunning, determined, loyaland deliberate, focused on finding the truth.  He's also a handsome, sexy, strong, self-made man who has done many things he's not proud of.  And Amelia is one of the most appealing heroines to come along in a while.  She's smart with lots of moxie, no guile or artifice and she's rational (unusual for a romance heroine!).  She's also passionate, unpredictable and keeps the normally rock-solid Niels slightly off-balance.  A highly recommended read and I look forward to the next two installments in the series about Amelia's cousins Gavin (Fountain of Secrets) and Clio (Fountain of Fire).	2003-07-09
US	40354595	R1FONNR3W74BDJ	0380807157	26838172	It Must Be Love	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Is it really love?	Though Rachel Gibson has written some great books, she's not perfect.  It Must Be Love had a cute premise, but the execution wasn't as good as I had expected.  Gabrielle Breedlove is a new-age chick who believes in karma and aromatherapy but not fate.  Together with her partner Kevin, she owns an antiques/curio shop.  But during her morning jogs, she's noticed a guy - a handsome, sexy guy - who seems to be following her and, coming to the conclusion he's a stalker, confronts him with a can of hairspray and an unloaded gun.  Well he turns out to be police detective Joe Shanahan who takes her into custody for assaulting a police officer!  But once at the station, she discovers that she and her partner are under suspicion of having stolen a painting and that they want her to turn informant or else she will be prosecuted as an accessory.  Without much choice, she agrees to the scheme wherein Joe will pretend to be her handyman boyfriend in order to be in the store and collect evidence against Kevin.<br />Gabrielle is a very trusting (some might say nave) largely solitary and introspective woman who wants to believe the best of people - except for Joe who she considers an unenlightened Neanderthal.  Joe is your typical Irish-Catholic only son in a large, rambunctious family.  He avoids his mom and sisters attempts to marry him off, but inside he has considered it, especially after being shot in the line of duty the year before.  But if he gets married it will be on his own terms in his own time.<br />While the relationship starts out OK with a reluctant opposites attract thing going on, as things heated up between them, sure there was lust, but I did not feel true affection - especially not on his part since he was still flirting and making dates with other women!  He's completely written her off as relationship material, thinks she's \\"kooky\\" and seems to have little respect for her or her beliefs.  Meanwhile she's falling madly in love with him!  Once the case is closed and it looks like each will go their separate ways, he finally comes to his senses about what he really wants.  But I hate to say I had my doubts about this couple lasting for the long haul.  Oh, me of little faith!  Still, I did enjoy this book even with my doubts.  Joe was sexy and sweet in his own gruff way and though her new-aginess got on my nerves at times, Gabrielle was a truly kind and caring person.<br />Not flawless, but still a good read.	2003-07-09
US	40354595	RWXH9E4BIIBBU	0743410548	329454519	Beauty Like The Night (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	28	28	N	N	4 1/2 *s   Full of emotion, angst and family secrets	This book introduced the Rutledge siblings Camden, Earl of Treyhern, his sister Catherine (No True Gentleman) and youngest brother Bentley (The Devil You Know).  I read (and enjoyed) Catherine's story first, then read (and adored) Bentley's so I thought I should go back and read Cam's.  Ms Carlyle has a definite knack for creating an overall tone that reflects her characters.  Cam is pensive, circumspect and deliberate and, as with the man, this book had me a bit impatient waiting for things to happen.  Therein lies my only complaint with this book.  Because much of the story is told in flashback, at times it felt slow, like nothing was happening.<br />Their father, the dissolute and lecherous Randolph \\"Randy\\" Rutledge is a notorious libertine who is quickly running his estate and family into ruin.  When Cam was young, his father took a mistress whose daughter Helene became Cam's best friend.  But as they grew to teenage, they became something more and Cam wound up compromising Helene.  Helene's mother whisked her off to the Continent never to be heard from again breaking both teens' hearts.<br />It falls to Cam to drag the family back from the brink of financial ruin and he does so by marrying the malevolent, but wealthy Cassandra.  The marriage is torture but ends several years later with Cassandra's death and leaves Cam with a daughter who cannot or will not speak.  After his father dies (while debauching the governess) Cam hires a new governess - who turns out to be his long lost Helene!  The shock of seeing one another again after all these years turns them both inside out and both realize that the attraction they felt so long ago is still very much alive.  But what to do about it?  He's an earl and she's a mere governess.  Not to mention that Cam has made a verbal agreement to marry his cousin, Joan.<br />Meanwhile Helene is making good progress with Ariane and determines that there is nothing physically wrong with her - that the child has suffered some sort of trauma that has caused her to keep silent.  During her years on the Continent Helene studied the controversial subject of psychological disorders and feels confident that she can reach Ariane.  But perhaps someone does not want Ariane to speak for fear of what she might reveal!<br />There's lots of emotional angst here, between Cam and Helene, between Cam and Bentley (that boy is such a lost soul!).  There are also secrets to be revealed about Cam's late wife Cassandra, a shocking trip to Gretna for an unexpected couple and of course, will Ariane ever speak?  A recommended read.	2003-07-05
US	40354595	R18LN848KU0BCX	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Love in a small town - with the proper cowboy!	Rachel Gibson is now pretty much an auto-buy for me.  I've enjoyed the three books I've read so far and look forward to \\"Truly, Madly Yours\\" and \\"It Must be Love\\".  Heck I'll probably even read \\"Lola Carlyle\\" though it doesn't look as good and hasn't gotten as positive reviews as her other books.<br />Single dad, town sheriff and sought after hunk Dylan Taber figures trouble has arrived in tiny Gospel, Idaho when a gorgeous woman driving a porsche with \\"MZBHAVN\\" California vanity plates pulls into town.  What's a sophisticated city girl like her doing out here in the wilderness?  Though suspicious of her, he's also intrigued and attracted.  But he's got his son to consider and seriously guards his privacy.   But is it because news travels so fast in a small town or is there something more to it?<br />Hope Spencer writes (i.e., makes up) stories of alien abductions and bigfoot sightings for a tabloid.  After some unpleasantness with one of the few subjects she based on a real person results in stalking and a restraining order, her boss sends her to the boonies to lay low for six months.  She's not really interested in mixing with the locals (and keeps her occupation to herself), but several encounters with the sexy sheriff Taber bring her out of her self-imposed exile.  <br />As Hope and Dylan flirt, she also opens up enough to befriend her neighbor Shelly - her first female friend in a long time.  And Dylan's son Adam is also surprisingly enjoyable to be around.  As things heat up between them, Hope wonders if she could ever make a life here in a town with no movie theater or even a 7-11.  But it also seems like Dylan is ashamed of their relationship, not wanting anyone to find out about them.  Hope's not going to be anyone's dirty little secret, but when a famous TV actress Hope once crossed paths with in LA also seems to be mixed up in Dylan's life, both will have a lot of `splaining to do!<br />Hope and Dylan are a fun and sexy couple with lots of chemistry.  Dylan is especially appealing if you like the confident, sexy cowboy type.  A recommended read!	2003-06-24
US	40354595	R1TYT1FI9UMJBU	0060502177	152570605	To Wed a Stranger (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	OK marriage of convenience with a twist	Lady Annabelle Wylde is touted to be the most beautiful woman in London.  So why is she still single well into her twenties?  Because beautiful as she is, every man she has ever seriously pursued wound up loving someone else - despite all her machinations. She's tried unsuccessfully to find love, but neither will she be pitied by the ton and wind up a spinster.  So when her father proposes an arranged marriage to stranger Miles Croft, she agrees.  He's handsome and wealthy and amiable enough, so why not?<br />Miles Croft, Viscount Pelham, is taken with her beauty, grace and moxie.  He needs to reestablish his family in society after his mother's disastrous second marriage nearly ruined them all.  Oh yes, Lady Annabelle will do just perfectly - grace, beauty, charm and sterling family name - not to mention that he wants her as well.<br />Well, the best laid plans . . . unfortunately, Annabelle becomes seriously ill on the honeymoon and emerges a shadow of her former self.  Though Miles is at her side every step of the way during her long convalescence, she wonders if it's just pity or the polite concern any kind man would show his wife.  And when Annabelle finally heals and makes her triumphant return to society Miles wonders with sadness if she no longer needs him.  But why should either care?  Wasn't this a marriage of convenience?<br />Since this is my first Edith Layton book, I obviously was not familiar with Annabelle's character.  She's apparently played key roles in prior books as something of a manipulative flirt.  As a result, I found I had very little emotional investment in her until a third of the way into this book.  Same with Miles - he's the ultimate nice guy and thoroughly likeable, but I wasn't mad for him.  Their relationship lacked that emotional spark coming across as more friendship than passionate romance to me.  And I found the blackmail subplot tedious.  I did, however, feel for her after losing her looks, dealing with a difficult and slow convalescence and the humiliation of appearing in public again while not looking her best.  She definitely had strength and courage and Miles was sweetly supportive.  Rather than the blackmail bit, I'd rather have seen more time spent on building the relationship of the leads and even would have liked to see more of Miles' sister Camille and Eric Ford (but perhaps they're getting their own story).  This story had potential, but ultimately is just an OK read.	2003-06-24
US	40354595	R8TE9N6QJE12H	0060527048	585986262	To Marry the Duke	Books	5	29	34	N	N	Sensuous, lush and interesting	If you've read Edith Wharton's \\"The Buccaneers\\" or seen the TV version on Masterpiece Theater this story will be familiar territory. During the late Victorian era the aristocracy was in danger of decline from lack of cash. The traditional estate farming system no longer profitable and investing and making money being vile and common, marrying for money (somehow not vile and common) was the preferred way to keep up their estates and lifestyles. Into this world came many American heiresses whose families were nouveau riche having made boatloads of money (before there was such a thing as income taxes!) investing and in manufacturing, making the most of the Industrial Age. Winston Churchill's mother was one such heiress from Virginia. Marrying a title was a way of gaining acceptance from the older American money and gaining the regard of the likes of the famed Mrs. Astor.<br />Sophia Wilson's father is a self-made man and incredibly wealthy, but her grandparents were entirely common. A titled husband of the British aristocracy would elevate the family in New York society, but Sophia longs to marry for love. When she meets James Langdon, the Duke of Wentworth, she wonders if she can have both. He's handsome and charming but also has an aura of danger about him that makes Sophia wary. She knows that word of her hefty dowry has gotten out and worries about James' motives. But he must be sincere - the way he looks at her and kisses her surely must be for real, yes it must be love!<br />James had no immediate interest in marrying, but Sophia is truly beautiful and unique and has many admirers clamoring for her attention (if not for her money). It won't be long before someone snatches her up and, being a duke, he surely would jump to the top of her list - if he was interested that is. But he finds to his surprise that he is, indeed interested, and the money would come in handy as there are many repairs needed on his Yorkshire estate. He decides to pursue her and marry her asa strictly business arrangement - he'll get his much-needed infusion of cash and she'll get her title. But he'll have to charm and woo her first, which causes him some measure of unease, for he has no intention of loving her and unleashing the strong passions and reckless emotions he inherited from his abusive father. He's worked too long and hard to control that aspect of his nature. But he finds himself extremely attracted to her and wants her so badly he can barely wait for the wedding night. What's gotten into him? It wasn't supposed to be like this - this was to be strictly business!<br />And so they marry and share a wonderful honeymoon in Italy, but once home in Yorkshire, James turns as chilly as the weather. And his mother is no help at all having never approved of the marriage. These people seem so cold and emotionless, so unlike her own warm, and close family that she is missing dreadfully. Sophia feels completely out of her element and must face the awful truth - is her marriage a sham? Did James marry her for her money? But no, she couldn't have been so wrong about him, couldn't have made the biggest mistake of her life. Though heartbroken, she refuses to be beaten down and is determined to be a duchess he can be proud of and, just maybe, in the process thaw that cold heart and get back the man she fell in love with!<br />I found James' character believable in that cool, repressed British way, but some might find Sophia a little too perfect. And Ms MacLean creates a very palpable sensual chemistry between them. Pet peeve - the color of James' eyes goes from green on page 6 \\"His green eyes were catlike . . .\\" to blue on page 335 \\"His piercing, blue-eyed gaze met hers. . .\\" Hey, pick a color and go with it! That aside this is an enjoyable and recommended read!	2003-06-19
US	40354595	R13S125TTTPQOC	0060519703	165387113	Once He Loves	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What happens when you seduce the wrong man?	This third post-Norman invasion medieval from Sara Bennett follows \\"The Lily and the Sword\\" and \\"The Rose and the Shield\\".  Briar Kenton has vowed revenge against Lord Radulf, known as the \\"King's Sword\\".  She blames Radulf for her stepmother's death and her father's downfall (he was declared a traitor) and subsequent death.  She also blames him for the life she and her sisters have been forced to live since - outcasts forced to serve and sing to survive.  Lord Radulf is widely known to be desperately in love and completely devoted to his wife, the Lady Lily, so Briar decides to seduce Radulf, thus ruining his relationship with his Lily - see how he feels when his whole world crashes in around him!<br />And so, she lures him to her bed and, to her shock, it is not at all they way she imagined.  He's sweet, gentle and the experience is the most wonderful and passionate of her life.  This was not supposed to happen!  And things go from bad to worse when she discovers that this is not Radulf in her bed, but one of his men, disgraced knight Ivo de Vessey!  Good Lord, what has she done?!<br />Ivo de Vessey is also shaken by the passion they shared and eventhough she thought he was someone else, it can't erase her response - to him.  And on the most primal level, he decides that this woman is now his.  But Briar is so emotionally unglued at the moment, leaving her to her own thoughts is probably for the best.  And anyway he is called away by his lord to help put down a skirmish in the north.  But he vows to return to her.<br />Though Ivo is certain that they can make a future together, Briar is not so easily convinced.  What will the future hold for a disgraced knight and the daughter of a traitor?  And before we can have a happy ending, Ivo must face his malevolent brother Miles and put his past to rest.  While Briar has to face some unhappy truths about what really happened to her stepmother.  And in the background, we see the sweet, surprising romance that blossoms between Briar's innocent younger sister Mary and Ivo's worldly fellow mercenary Sweyn.  These two are adorable together!<br />An enjoyable and recommended read.	2003-06-15
US	40354595	R1U6A8RCKCMEOW	0380820803	706042167	Confessions of a Scoundrel	Books	3	21	22	N	N	3 1/2 stars - Who's the scoundrel here -  Verena?	At the close of An Affair to Remember an unhappy Brandon St John discovers the dreaded Talisman ring in his piece of wedding cake nearly breaking a tooth!  The holder of the ring is destined to meet his true love, but Brandon doesn't believe in such legends.  All the same, he'll palm it off on one of his brothers if the opportunity presents itself!  It seems like bad luck is all the ring has brought him when his brothers give him the unpleasant task of buying off Chase's latest paramour, worried the gold-digger will trap Chase into marriage.  Family head Marcus warns Brandon that \\"Lady Westforth is not a milquetoast female . . . I advise you to approach her carefully\\".  Truer words were never spoken!<br />Widowed Lady Verena Westforth has been relegated to the very fringe of society by her vengeful father-in-law.  He never approved of her - her parents are charlatans for heaven's sake! - believes her responsible for his son's death and has done his best to ruin her reputation in polite society.  And so, she exists in the demimonde supporting herself by some low-key card sharping in gaming hells.  But she's no man's mistress and, unbeknownst to Brandon, has already let Chase down easy and sent him on his way.  But that does not stop her from having a little fun at the overbearing Brandon's expense.  Soon all of society is giggling behind his back - intolerable!  And when Verena's brother is blackmailed, Brandon's friend's freedom is threatened and the solution to both is finding a list of British agents abroad, are Verena and Brandon adversaries or allies?  One thing is certainly clear - they are extremely attracted to one another!<br />So why only 3 1/2 stars?  SEMI-SPOILERS!  Well, first, why would Brandon stick his neck out for a school chum who sounded more like an acquaintance?  And while there's plenty of lust and even camaraderie between Brandon and Verena, I didn't feel like they were in love.  No love is declared until the last chapter when he is suddenly, out of the blue, planning a wedding!  And lastly, the whole blackmail scheme seemed ridiculously convoluted to me.  I guess I'm being picky, but I gave An Affair to Remember 4 stars and, though I enjoyed this book, it's not as good as that one in my opinion and I just could not rate them the same.  Still, all in all, an enjoyable read.	2003-06-14
US	40354595	RVGCEJDJXG4QD	0373765185	854124116	Sleeping With The Playboy	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Romantic, passionate, funny and sweet!	Just a wonderfully enjoyable story that had me smiling often!  Julianne MacLean is a newly discovered author for me and this is her first contemporary romance.  She's written four historicals (none of which I've read yet), her most recent \\"To Marry the Duke\\" has garnered some very good reviews and I look forward to reading it next!<br />Dr Donovan Knight, wealthy, handsome, sexy heart surgeon has been getting death threats and now someone has broken into his penthouse and attacked him, but got away.  His worried partner has had enough and has hired a bodyguard to protect Donovan until this stalker is caught.  But he never expected his bodyguard to be a beautiful dark haired, dark eyed, tough as nails woman!<br />Jocelyn MacKenzie, former Secret Service agent, isn't so sure she should accept this assignment.  She's got issues with men who live for status, wealth and material things and this guy looks like yet another one.  She's also concerned about the way she can't stop thinking about how handsome and built he is - how unprofessional is that?  But she needs the money if she wants to help her sister attend Julliard, so she accepts and moves in to provide 24-hour protection.<br />Donovan immediately senses that she has little or no respect for him and thinks him shallow and status conscious.  He's determined to find out what makes her tick, but she's just as determined to keep him at arm's length and discourages any personal interaction of any kind.  But Donovan can't resist the challenge of dragging out the woman hiding behind that professional facade.  Her resistance starts to weaken - how could it not?  But there's still a stalker out there and she can't afford to lose her focus or someone could get hurt, maybe killed.  And not only is there the physical threat, but what about the threat to her heart - especially when she figures out that her first impressions of him were so wrong?<br />A fast, fun and romantic read and I highly recommend it!  I look forward to more stories by Ms. MacLean!	2003-06-11
US	40354595	RFG3TUG9YO2BZ	0440241111	729777684	Slightly Scandalous	Books	5	27	27	N	N	The best of the Bedwyn series so far!	I really disliked Lady Freyja Bedwyn when she was first introduced in the wonderful \\"A Summer to Remember\\".  She was haughty, disdainful, spoiled and downright nasty!  But Slightly Scandalous takes us into the heart and mind of this feisty, proud and complex woman and by the end of this book, I admired the woman she became once she let herself love and be loved by the unconventional and decidedly unstuffy Josh.<br />Freyja had been engaged to Kit Butler, her neighbor, childhood friend and, for one summer, her first love.  But Kit had other plans, bringing home his own bride (lovely and perfect Lauren) whom Freyja chooses to despise.  Now their first child is due any day and Freyja cannot bear to be around to witness their happiness.  And so she makes for Bath to stay with friends until after the birth and ensuing festivities.  While staying the night at an inn, a man bursts into her room asking her to hide him then steals a kiss and earns a punch in the nose for his efforts before being forced out the window.<br />Once in Bath, routine and tedium take hold until Freyja meets up again with her midnight visitor from the inn.  He is Joshua Moore, Marquess of Hallmere.  He constantly has an amused, mischievous twinkle in his eye and he loves to push Freyja's buttons.  He may be infuriating, but she quickly realizes that he is the most interesting and enjoyable company she's had since coming to Bath.  Together they become the talk of the town and when a plot is discovered to marry Josh off against his will, he asks Freyja to enter into a fake betrothal to thwart his aunt.  She agrees thinking it will be a fun and temporary lark.<br />How wrong they both are and soon things have gone way too far when Freyja's brother, the Duke of Bewcastle arrives in Bath demanding to know what is going on.  Each time they try to end the betrothal something comes up that causes them to keep up the charade.  And the more time they spend together, the worse it gets, for they are slowly becoming quite attached to one another.  Freyja starts to see that Josh is more than just a shallow, handsome, enjoyable companion.  He's kind, generous, down-to-earth and seems willing to take on his responsibilties to his estate and his female cousins.  And Josh more than admires Freyja's spirit, intelligence, and new-found open mindedness and wonders why they must part at all.  But will Freyja be willing to risk giving her heart a second time?  Can she trust Josh with it?<br />An enjoyable couple who brought out the best in one another and were truly friends as well as lovers.  A highly recommended read!	2003-06-11
US	40354595	R2YUX3G3W0STWS	0515135305	702796064	Catching Midnight	Books	2	21	28	N	N	If this is the direction Ms Holly will be taking . . .	. . . then this may be the last of her books I read. I'm surprised at all the 5 star reviews. I'm with \\"shereads\\"  and CBDB and others - this book was a bit boring and to be truthful, I haven't even finished it yet. I've gotten three quarters of the way through and I'm stalled. I don't know if I'm even interested enough in finding out what will happen to finish it!<br />In the interest of full disclosure, I'm not a reader of paranormal romances. Frankly, shapeshifting blood suckers are not normally my cup of tea, but the number of 5 star reviews (particularly from reviewers I usually agree with) and the fact that I enjoyed both Beyond Innocence and Beyond Seduction, convinced me to give this book a chance. <br />It's not a bad book, it just didn't hold my interest. You expect immortals to be fascinating, alluring and enigmatic, but the immortals here seemed all too human. Gillian was ok, but seemed awfully bland for a vampire/upyr. Aimery seemed like a nice guy but again, nothing special. Their relationship was a strange almost naive sort of childish love and fascination for each other, albeit a sexual one. Nim Wei had possibilities as an evil presence, but seemed under utilized - her relationship with Aimery's brother Edmund was more intriguing than that between Gillian and Aimery just because it was so unlikely. I guess I had expected more intrigue, danger, manipulation and tension than this book offered. It's not even particularly dark or gothic in tone. I wonder what a real fan of paranormals would think of this book as it seems a bit tame to me. I also expected a bit more sexual tension but the hottest scene for me was in the very first chapter between wolfpack leader Ulric and Gillian - some serious pheromones there!  The very scene Ms Holly excerpted on her website to entice readers to buy this book - tells you something doesn't it!<br />Unfortunately for those of us hoping this is a temporary dip in the paranormal pool, I believe the title of her next book is \\"Hunting Midnight\\" so it would appear that more \\"children of the night\\" are forthcoming. I'll just save my money.	2003-06-03
US	40354595	R1JD65IVM7KPY5	0061032093	602976816	Breathing Room	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Tuscany is just the place to find a little "Breathing Room"!	... readers seem to either love or hate this book. I fall somewhere in the middle, finding more to like than dislike in this overall enjoyable, often funny story of two very different people who turn out to be surprisingly right for each other. This is my first book by this author who seems to be so revered, and I was not disappointed, but neither was I overly impressed. <br />Psychologist and self-help guru Dr. Isabel Favor's life is a mess. Her accountant took off with her money and left her with big trouble with the IRS, a disgruntled former employee has given an unflattering tell-all interview, and to top it all off, her fiance has just dumped her for another woman. Can things get any worse? Yes, they can! Decamping for two months to a rustic farmhouse in Tuscany sounds like the way to get back on track. But first stop is Florence where she engages in an uncharacteristic, fiasco of a one night stand with what she thinks is an Italian gigolo. And when she reaches the farmhouse it's no better since the locals seem to want drive her out. Demanding to speak with the owner, she barges into his villa and comes face to face with her \\"gigolo\\" - who turns out to be a movie star!<br />Lorenzo \\"Ren\\" Gage is Hollywood's favourite psycho killer on the screen, and a self-indulgent, self-loathing cynic offscreen. He's taking some time off at his villa before shooting begins on his next film. But when Isabel storms into his life, the sparks definitely start to fly! They challenge, antagonize and annoy one another, but they are also extremely attracted. She convinces Ren that something is up with the locals and they play amateur sleuth to find out what's going on. And then Ren's ex-wife shows up with her children and emotional drama.  It gives Isabel a chance to get back to the basics of her vocation and Ren the opportunity to see her in action and in the process she earns his admiration and respect. Though they've begun an affair, Ren knows she's just too good for a rotten guylike him. But can Isabel convince him otherwise - that there's a good man deep down inside him?<br />I loved Ren!  Not only was he handsome and sexy, he had a great sense of humour and his disguises to avoid being recognized were a hoot! Though Isabel is at first annoying and rigid, spouting her Oprah-esque psycho babble, once she started to loosen up, I started to like her. But I found the climax of the story a bit melodramatic, the conspiracy of the villagers a bit silly and, though I understood the purpose of their presence, I felt too much time was spent on the marital problems of his ex-wife and her husband. I wanted more of Ren and Isabel!<br />Anyway, a flawed, but still recommended read.	2003-05-27
US	40354595	R2GOLBARNFFFJW	038082079X	161550759	An Affair to Remember (Talisman Ring)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Funny & romantic story of love and a family in the making	I should have realized when I read \\"The Seduction of Sara\\" (my first Hawkins book) that I was being drawn into yet another of these family series where you feel compelled to read all the books just because! The fact that she had 5 brothers should have tipped me off. While I enjoyed \\"Sara\\", I found some of the secondary characters more interesting than Nick and Sara - primarily St John family head Marcus (whose story will likely be last as he seems to be the most interesting of them all). And I was very happy to find that overbearing half brother Anthony's story would match him with his nemesis, Sara's unconventional best friend Anna Thraxton. I was not disappointed - I liked it better than \\"Sara\\".<br />Anthony Elliot, Earl of Greyley has \\"inherited\\" custody of the five unruly and mischievous children of one of his Elliot cousins. As head of the Elliot family, he takes all of his responsibilities seriously and they're no different. But dealing with them is more than he bargained for and several governesses later, things are out of control - a state of affairs Greyley cannot abide. And so in desperation he seeks out Anna Thraxton who has the reputation of being the best governess in London. If only there were some other alternative since he and Thraxton cannot stand one another. He finds her impertinent, disrespectful, opinionated, irritating and stubborn. Too bad he needs her!<br />Anna Thraxton was not always a governess and she misses her life in society very much - the clothes, the balls, her best friend Sara. But she and grandfather must eat, and so she must work. When Greyley approaches Anna about working for him, she initially refuses. She's always found him overbearing, heavy handed, arrogant, irritating and stubborn. Too bad he's offering to pay her more money than she could make in a year for three month's work!<br />And so, Anna and grandfather move into Greyley House where Anna begins to bring order to the nursery - and disorder to Greyley's peace of mind.Their often heated disagreements somehow end as passionate kisses. He's helplessly attracted to her eventhough he has agreed to marry another. And Anna is just as hopelessly drawn to him, but knows there is nothing but heartache down that road for he's an earl and she's a mere governess - and certainly no man's mistress! So it may just take the mischievous children, together with Anna's equally naughty grandfather to bring this situation to the end they choose - whether Anthony and Anna like it or not!<br />A really fun and recommended read.	2003-05-24
US	40354595	R37KM6OUOVVE2H	0440241057	429766150	Slightly Wicked (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Forbidden passion and concealed identities	This second in the Bedwyn series finds third son Rannulf on his way to his grandmother's estate which he stands to inherit. Looks like yet another plot to marry him off, but he'll indulge his grandmama's wishes only so far. As third-born, he was meant for the church, but Rannulf refused that living and would be his own man - no matter what family head Bewcastle has to say about it! But on his way to Grandmaison, he encounters an overturned stagecoach and one lovely passenger that he just cannot resist.<br />Judith Law is on her way to a fate worse than death - that of an unwanted, impoverished female relative. Her family is in dire financial straits and Judith is to go to her aunt's to serve as companion to her grandmother. But on the stagecoach, she fantasizes about a cheery, mocking highwayman that will take her away from the mundane and depressing life that surely awaits her. When the stagecoach overturns in muddy roads, it is not a highwayman, but a roguish gentleman who comes to her rescue riding off with her to the next town and a secluded inn. Knowing what emptiness lies before her, she adopts the persona of \\"actress Claire Campbell\\" and enters into a scandalous affair with \\"Ralph Bedard\\", thinking this interlude will be something she can look back on with pleasure when she's a lonely, lowly companion. They spend two lovely days together before she decides she must move on. She arrives at Harewood Grange to assume her duties just as her pretty, vivacious cousin Julianne is set to begin a house party to welcome Lord Rannulf Bedwyn to the neighborhood (his grandmother is supporting a match between her grandson Rannulf and Julianne).<br />Rannulf arrives at Grandmaison to find his grandmama a bit more frail than usual. He is willing to indulge her to the extent that he will consider marrying Julianne to please her. But when he discovers \\"Claire\\", or rather Judith, in the same household, he does the expected and offers marriage, which she refuses. As the days pass, he realizes that he cannot marry the pretty but vacuous Julianne - that he wants the lovely but lowly Judith.  It was nice to see Rannulf mature, not only in his feelings for Judith, but for his grandmama and in his new-found interest in managing the estate that will one day be his.  But when someone has it in for Judith and accuses her of stealing, Rannulf has a good idea who and sets out to prove her innocence. Along the way, his elder brother Wulf, Duke of Bewcastle becomes involved - is there no end to Wulf's patience, indulgence and devotion to assuring his siblings' happiness? And when will he worry about his own happiness the reader will wonder - right around book six, I bet!<br />Another enjoyable, recommended read, though surely not the best of the series. I expect Wulf's story to be the stand-out of the series (I wonder what type of woman will win his seemingly cold heart!), though sister Freyja's story is next and should be quite a page-turner!	2003-05-24
US	40354595	RK5HF3NUQJSM1	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	4	1	1	N	N	4 1/2 *s  Yes, a marriage of convenience but so well told!	Looks like I've been suckered into another family saga!  Gaelen Foley continues to thoroughly entrench me in her Knight Family series and now I believe Mary Balogh has hooked me into the Bedwyn family chronicles (this series technically begins with the wonderful, not-to-be-missed &quot;A Summer to Remember&quot;).<br />Dark and stoic second son Colonel Lord Aidan Bedwyn has pursued a military career only because he felt it was his duty to do so.  Now a deathbed promise made to one of his officers leads Aidan to dutifully offer to marry Eve Morris, the officer's sister, in order to save her home and her household of misfits!  A marriage of convenience is agreed to and once accomplished, Aidan returns to his family's home never revealing his marriage to anyone and never expecting to see Eve again.  But his plans are upended when his elder brother, Wulfric, the Duke of Bewcastle, learns of the marriage and confronts Aidan with the knowledge.  Aidan steadfastly refuses to involve Eve in his family though they have been invited to Carlton House by the Prince Regent.  Bewcastle, however, is not one to take no for an answer!<br />Eve Morris is trying to resume her quiet country life - but no, she's no longer Eve Morris.  She's now Lady Aidan Bedwyn for what that's worth since, sadly, she will never see her husband again.  But when she receives an entirely unexpected visit from the Duke of Bewcastle, he convinces her (for Aidan's sake) to accompany him to London to be presented to the Queen!  And so, Eve, the daughter of a Welsh coal miner, is introduced into the world of the arrogant, overbearing, haughty Bedwyn family and the haute ton.  This is everything Aidan had hoped to avoid and he is extremely unhappy about Bewcastle's interference.  But is it because he wanted to spare Eve or because he is ashamed of her humble origins?  And can Eve stand up to his family, not to mention the pressure of being presented?  Is a real marriage in the cards or just a sweet, unattainable dream?  Read it and find out for yourself!<br />I must confess that I disliked those Bedwyns (Wulf, Freyja, Morgan and Ranulf) introduced in &quot;Summer&quot;.  They were so haughtly, arrogant and disdainful - yet also fascinating.  These books will explore what lies behind those cool, haughty exteriors and I think I can safely say that the most interesting of the six stories (thus likely to be the last) will be Wulf's.  He's entirely fascinating and enigmatic.  I look forward to reading more about this family.  A recommended read!e dream?  Read it and find out for yourself!<br />I must confess that I disliked those Bedwyns (Wulf, Freyja, Morgan and Ranulf) introduced in &quot;Summer&quot;.  They were so haughtly, arrogant and disdainful - yet also fascinating.  These books will explore what lies behind those cool, haughty exteriors and I think I can safely say that the most interesting of the six stories (thus likely to be the last) will be Wulf's.  He's entirely fascinating and enigmatic.  I look forward to reading more about this family.  A recommended read!	2003-05-23
US	40354595	R1IPDLXGOY96FM	0373691270	10323582	Once Upon A Mattress  (The Wrong Bed)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	3 1/2 *s  Enjoyable story of two people trying to start over	This second contemporary from Ms O'Reilly is not quite as good as her first, \\"Just Kiss Me\\".  The characters could have been a bit better developed, as they came across a bit one-dimensional, but all in all, this is still a pretty good read.<br />Hilary Sinclair has recently moved to Dallas and a new job at McAllister Beds desperately needing a fresh start.  She left Atlanta and her old life behind when her fiance of 7 years dumps her leaving her hurt, confused and wondering if she was really that stupid or that needy.  But her new life is not exactly off to a great start when the roof of her fixer-up-er cracks and leaks during a rainstorm.  Needing a place to sleep until she can get her roof fixed, she decides on the mattress test center at work - it's full of beds and who'll ever know?<br />Ben McAllister has spent the last several years working his way through his \\"list of things to do before I die\\".  He's been a ski instructor in the Alps, spent a summer working construction in the Carribean even been to the Galapagos.  Next is a stint on a ranch in Colorado to play cowboy for awhile.  But for now, he's come back home to Dallas and the family business to help out.  His parents are divorcing and Ben figures they must need him, but when his father gives him the token job as Director of Security, he's disappointed to say the least.  Determined to prove himself useful, he sets out to discover who has been sleeping in the test center.  He decides to spend the night himself and catch the culprit in the act.<br />Morning finds still half-asleep Hilary and Ben in the same bed and engaged in some fuzzy close contact.  Though they seem ill-suited, there is a definite attraction.  Ben offers to fix her roof if she will teach him about the mattress biz in exchange.  Friendship grows and they begin to share personal histories.  Much as he is attracted to her, Ben unhappily decides that, with all her recent heartache, he's not the guy for her.  He's not Mr. Reliable and theyboth know it.  Besides, he's off to Colorado in a few months anyway - isn't he?  But then Ben's dad drops a bombshell that will affect all of their lives and Ben has some serious thinking to do about what really should be on that list of his and what's really important to him.  And when the going gets tough will Hilary stay and fight for what she wants or just run away again?<br />An enjoyable read.	2003-05-19
US	40354595	R3ESKJWHEG494H	0385335350	230297888	A Summer to Remember	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One Lovely Summer!	As a long time reader of historical romances, I'm embarassed to admit that this is my first book by Mary Balogh! And it won't be my last. An absolutely lovely, warm and poignant story and a highly recommended read! <br />Stubborn and reckless Christopher \\"Kit\\" Butler, Viscount Ravensberg, refuses to succumb to his father's plans for him to marry the fiancee of his deceased older brother now that he is the heir. Determined to do things his own way, he plans to return to the family seat with a bride of his own choosing - one that is beyond reproach. But where to find such a creature? And more importantly, how to woo and win her (especially with his wild reputation)? When his friends suggest a candidate, and a wager is made, Kit is off and in hot pursuit of his quarry.<br />Being left behind by those she loves has been Lauren Edgeworth's greatest sadness and continuing fear. At the age of three, her mother left her and just the year before, she was left at the altar. She's always been proper, dutiful and perfectly behaved so that no one will ever want to leave her again. Her self-esteem has taken a devastating hit leaving her feeling unattractive and unwanted. So when rogue Kit Butler begins to energetically and enthusiastically pursue her, she knows that something is up and calls him on it.<br />A contrite Kit confesses his plans to Lauren, apologizes for using her, and moves to leave when she does the unexpected. She agrees to become engaged to Kit in exchange for a summer of adventure. Once the summer is over, Lauren will then break the engagement and retire to a quiet life alone in Bath leaving Kit the option to marry where he chooses. But the reality of what they've agreed to is much more complicated than either had planned and both wonder what they've gotten themselves into. Feelings start to develop and not just between Kit and Lauren.  Kit's family comes to love Lauren and she them, making the charade even more painful. And while Lauren is resolved to help Kitreconcile with his family before she leaves, Kit is equally determined to give Lauren the most wonderful summer of her life in the hope that he can convince her to become his wife for real!  Just a wonderful book!<br />This book introduces the Bedwyn siblings (Freyja Bedwyn was the woman Kit was supposed to marry) who will star in 6 upcoming books. They are arrogant, proud and sound like fascinating subjects to follow and I look forward to their stories.	2003-05-12
US	40354595	R2N4KY2HL1CBIW	0373259891	199534247	Just Kiss Me	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Funny, sexy and poignant story of an unlikely couple	My first introduction to Ms O'Reilly's work was her (so far only) historical \\"Touched by Fire\\" which I absolutely adored!  The author has a knack for creating likeable leads that you really care about and displays a lot of humour in her stories.<br />Dr Avery Barrington III simply takes it for granted that he and lawyer Amanda Sedgewick belong together and will marry someday - much to Amanda's consternation!  Fond as she is of Avery, he's just not what she's looking for.  Though they're both well-educated, successful professionals, she yearns to break out of her proper, dull world.  And when all attempts to let Avery down easy fail (he just doesn't get it!) she resorts to deception.  She ropes Avery's younger brother Joe into a \\"pretend\\" relationship - all the while hoping it will become all too real since Joe is really hot and a fling with him could be lots of fun!<br />Joseph Matthias Barrington has always felt like second-best next to Avery.  He never got into the posh private schools or worked toward a professional career.  Instead he's gone his own way and is now an airline mechanic.  He always figured Amanda and Avery made the perfect couple, with so much in common.  So when Amanda recruits him for her plan, he initially balks.  Not until he is convinced that Amanda is sincere and Avery really is oblivious does he reluctantly agree to participate.  The forced intimacy of pretending to date starts to awaken confused feelings and a strong sexual attraction between Joe and Amanda.  But Joe feels Amanda is way out of his league - she's on the fast track to a partnership.  He figures he'll never measure up, so why try?  His feelings of inadequacy will touch your heart.  But should Amanda feel guilty about being successful?  Is there anyway for these two make it work?<br />An enjoyable, often funny and poignant story of a couple struggling with career, income and lifestyle issues that could tear any couple apart.  I know Ms O'Reilly has more contemporaries on the way, which I welcome, but I also hope that there are also more historicals in her future - which seems awfully bright!	2003-05-11
US	40354595	R3UV0JTAUOMIAR	0446610534	989798183	The Destiny	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Another terrific historical romance from Ms. Givens	I was first introduced to this author in \\"The Legend\\", the wonderful predecessor to this book and I'm glad I discovered her.  \\"The Legend\\" introduced twin brothers James and Neil MacCurrie and the prophecies involving their lives, loves, war, peace and the future of their clan.<br />\\"The Destiny\\" is laird Neil's story and opens with Neil returning from a meeting with exiled King James in France.  Posing as a French Huguenot, he arrives at what he has been told is a safehouse and there he meets Eileen Ronley.  She has been asked to translate French to English so that it can be determined who he is and why he has come.  During the exchange, Eileen comes to doubt that he is, indeed French, since he seems to know of her Scots mother.  Neil is stunned to discover that Eileen is the long lost cousin of his own cousin Duncan.  They begin to feel an attraction to one another immediately.  When Neil is imprisoned, Eileen helps him to escape and he leaves her with a kiss and the words \\"I will see you again\\".<br />Eileen is the granddaughter of King Charles II.  Her father was the king's illegitimate son, but there are rumours that Charles did, in fact marry Jane Ronley.  If that could be proven, Eileen would then be the rightful queen.  This makes life quite dangerous for Eileen (which worries Neil even more than Eileen) and creates most of the intrigue and conflict in this story.  Will Neil return to London and find her?  Will Eileen pursue her claim to the throne?  Are Neil and Eileen each other's destiny?<br />If you need to have hero and heroine constantly together and having sex, you likely won't enjoy this book.  Neil and Eileen are seperated often, but there are enough sweet, romantic encounters along the way that turn your heart to mush and keep the romance alive for Neil, Eileen and the reader.  Though I liked \\"The Legend\\" better, this is still recommended and I hope that Duncan will get his story next. :)	2003-05-04
US	40354595	R1W293YIQUBPUB	0373259883	348496450	A Shameless Seduction  (Heat)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A shamelessly enjoyable, sexy read	Cole Sommers is the responsible, honorable straight-arrow who raised his two younger siblings (their dad died when he was 21) and provided them employment by opening his own private investigations firm.  Melodie Turner is his secretary/office manager.  He's known her since she was 16 and has always looked out for her as a favor to her dad, whom Cole respects as a second father.  But lately he's been having fantasies about her - erotic ones!  He's a bit ashamed and confused about these thoughts since Melodie is the sweet girl-next-door type, not to mention that he feels this is a betrayal of her dad, Richard's trust.  And since raising his siblings he's not looking for a relationship with the two kids and a dog-type, which is what he thinks Melodie represents.<br />Melodie is sick and tired of being called \\"sweet\\".  She's now 29 and wants Cole to see her as a woman, not just as his secretary or as Richard's daughter.  She's adored him for years, and now the right opportunity has come along to open his eyes.  Cole needs a sexy, confident woman to accompany him to a charity auction for a case he's working on and she plans to be that woman!  And so she sets about changing her image and shamelessly seducing Cole, not only into letting her work the case, but also to see her as the woman for him!  Poor Cole.  Though he fights her allure valiantly, he never really had a chance!  You go Melodie!<br />I adored Cole's younger brother Noah's story \\"The Ultimate Seduction\\", but have yet to read younger sister Joelle's story (I think it's out of print).  An enjoyable and recommended read.	2003-05-03
US	40354595	R1CK7YOVJ7AAKX	0060092130	43840938	Dance of Seduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 4)	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Mildly disappointing sequel to After the Abduction	My first and only other book by this author was After the Abduction which I thoroughly enjoyed. So when I found out that this one was about Morgan, Sebastian's intriguing twin brother, I was really looking forward to reading this one. Unfortunately, I found this story to be pretty predictable and very slow until about mid-way through. Though Morgan and Clara are both likable characters and their romance very sweet, I didn't find the sustained, crackling sexual chemistry of the prior book (ATA). Oh, there are definitely glimpses of the witty, snappy dialog this author is capable of and some very entertaining seduction scenes, but overall this book is just OK - not a stand-out or a must-read.<br />Lady Clara Stanbourne is a crusading reformer trying to move pickpockets off the streets and into better lives. But when mysterious Captain Morgan Pryce opens a shop nearby Clara worries that he is a threat to her young impressionable charges (not to mention her own peace of mind, for he is devilishly handsome!). She quickly suspects that he is a \\"fence\\" - a dealer in stolen goods - and tries everything she can think of to get him out of the neighborhood and away from her kids. Morgan is both amused and attracted by this beautiful avenging angel trying to save the world. If only she could save him, but that seems unlikely given what he's done in his life. But when she learns who he really is and what he's actually doing in Spitalfields, well that changes everything. Especially the sensual undercurrent of their turbulent relationship, which up to now, both have tried to suppress. And as they give in to their attraction, what will the future hold?<br />I felt too much time was spent on her home for pickpockets, the kids therein, and the villain, the Specter, who was really not very threatening or scary. Maybe my expectations were just too high, but I wouldn't recommend this book unless you're really a fan of this author or you really want to read Morgan's story.  And what's with the cover art?  The book describes Clara's hair as \\"chestnut\\" not blonde and it is hardly in character to have a naked, sheet-draped Lady Clara stretched out provocatively on a chaise longue!  I hate these overblown covers that seem to have little to do with the story inside!	2003-04-28
US	40354595	R3BLR5AMEX1779	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	4	31	33	N	N	A story of two flawed people working their way toward love	I've read two Rachel Gibson books - first her most recent \\"See Jane Score\\" (loved it!) and now her very first book \\"Simply Irresitible\\" - both stories of hockey jocks tamed by the right woman. The reviews for this book are definitely mixed, so you have to understand from the start that neither John nor Georgie are perfect and there will be times you will dislike both of them. This was not a problem for me as I found it realistic, but I have to agree that how the love develops between these two is not well drawn.<br />Georgeanne Howard is a girly girl (ugh!) whose childhood leaves her feeling that her only assets are her looks, charm and cooking skills in that order. She was set to marry a man old enough to be her grandfather for financial security, but bails at the last minute. She begs a ride from John Kowalsky who she discovers is a hockey star who plays for the team her former fiance owns. When John discovers who she is, he wants nothing to do with her as it could ruin his career, but hormones and jocks and girly girls with self-esteem issues being what they are, they wind up in bed. John then displays his ability to be a tremendous jerk by unceremoniously dumping her at the airport the next morning, driving away without a backward glance. Crushed, Georgie finally has to face facts, grow up and take charge of her life and so she does.<br />Seven years later, she is a partner in a successful catering business and runs into John at an event she is working. Stunned, scared and desperate to get away from him, she drops her checkbook on her way out the door. When he shows up at her house to drop it off, he discovers to his shock that their night together resulted in an adorable, incorrigible, irrepressible six year old girl! The last thing Georgie wants is John Kowalsky back in her life, but he is determined to be a part of his daughter's and so it seems she has no choice. Time spent together, while John gets to know Lexie, draws them back toward each other.  Their mutual sexual attraction reignites, but is something more lasting possible?<br />If you have no tolerance for jocks (you know - huge egos, short on sensitivity) then you likely won't care for John.  But I'm usually amused by the type (though any guy that called me \\"baby doll\\", especially in public, would get a swift kick!).  It was John's relationship with Lexie - especially the first time she called him \\"daddy\\" which was sweet and funny (he was such a [pushover]!) - that salvaged his character for me. The romance between John's pal goalie Hugh and Georgie's partner Mae was also a kick. But I wish more time had been spent on John and Georgie's relationship, I mean they really didn't know much about one another to start with and it would have helped if you knew better what made John, in particular, tick. Not without flaws, but still recommended!	2003-04-23
US	40354595	R1YIR6A5Z5Q39N	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Absolutely wonderful! Another vote for the year's best!	I can't tell you how much I loved this book! This is only my second Liz Carlyle book - my first was \\"No True Gentleman\\" and that's where I first met thoroughly lovable scoundrel Bentley Rutledge. Now I'll have to go back and read all of Ms Carlyle's books to read the stories of the various wonderful secondary characters.<br />Bentley is a complete rogue who spends next to no time in polite society. But it seems he's always been a part of Frederica \\"Freddie\\" d'Avillez's life, as he's her cousin's best friend. When Freddie is thrown over by the man she thought to marry, Bentley is there to console her (he's always had a soft spot for her). But one thing leads to another, and before either realizes it, Freddie's been ruined. Next morning Bentley writes a very pretty proposal letter that, unbeknownst to him, Freddie never receives. From her perspective, he's just taken off, no good-bye, typical Bentley. Though it hurts that he's just walked away, she does not hate him, for she threw herself at him and must also take some of the blame. When consequences from their night together develop, Freddie plans to leave for the continent to marry a non-existent husband, but when Bentley finds out, he's outraged (and hurt) that she's rejected his proposal to marry a stranger! How could she?!<br />Eventually, Bentley convinces Freddie to marry him, then takes her home to meet his family. It is immediately clear to Freddie that there is bad blood between Bentley and his older brother Cam, but why? And Bentley seems different here - preoccupied, tense, unable to sleep - not the carefree Bentley she always thought she knew. As the days pass she knows that something is seriously wrong, but he refuses to discuss it with her. So how is she to help this husband she has come to love so desperately?<br />Bentley is just so sweet and lovable - I just adored him. And he's carrying some heavy guilt and serious resentment over events from his childhood and early teen years. You just ache for himto resolve his difficult relationship with Cam, and you yearn for him to allow Freddie into his heart. He's a good man, if only he could believe it. And Freddie is a strong heroine, determined to help her husband anyway she can and keep her marriage together.<br />It's rare that a book can have you laughing one moment and in tears the next, but this one definitely does! So well written, such wonderful characters, it's simply marvelous. Highly recommended!	2003-04-21
US	40354595	R231W4RR5M7IQY	0446611298	227179454	Seduced	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A Really Entertaining Read!!	My first Pamela Britton book and I thoroughly enjoyed it! The author definitely displays a flair for the absurd and the result is a funny, fresh, yet emotional read - you'll laugh and cry!<br />Lucien St Aubyn, true to his unsavory reputation, has just compromised cool, unattainable Lady Elizabeth Montclair. Lucien's reputation is not only as an unrepentant rake, he's also known as the \\"Duke of Death\\" because so many of the people closest to him have died - including his elder brother. Lucien's seemingly blithe misbehaviour has prompted the ugly rumour that he even killed his brother for the title.<br />Elizabeth's position in Society is extremely fragile and she has always been conscious never to put a foot wrong. Now utterly ruined by a despicable rake with no scruples, she fully expects him to simply walk away - why should a Duke feel the need to do the honorable thing by the grandaughter of a common cobbler?<br />But Lucien hands Elizabeth the first of many surprises when he shows up roses in hand, on bended knee to propose. She really does not want to wed him, but has no other choice. After the wedding, they travel to his castle on the coast of northern Wales where they will spend the first few months of their married life, after which they can go their separate ways.  But in the days and weeks that follow, their mutual dislike and verbal sniping starts to turn into something else. Somewhere along the way, they begin to like each other. Lucien finds his way past her cool, aloof exterior and Elizabeth sees past his reputation and glimpses the man he truly is. But when Lucien faces some serious legal trouble, a worried Elizabeth wonders with dread just how hard Lucien will fight the charges.  Has she come to love him only to lose him to his own misguided guilt?<br />OK, much as I enjoyed it, I do have a complaint. Often there are people and events referred to that are never fully explained, but you get the impression that you are supposed to know all about them -very frustrating! I saw this same complaint made in one of the reviews for her first book, \\"My Fallen Angel\\" so maybe the author and her editor can work on that. But all in all, highly recommended!	2003-04-17
US	40354595	RCT714ZO5Z1NE	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Block out your day - you won't want to put this one down!!	This is my first Rachel Gibson book and I just loved it! Fast, funny, realistic and full of chemistry.<br />Aspiring journalist Jane Alcott is game to take on just about any job to gain experience and fill out her resume. She writes a \\"Single Girl in the City\\" column and she also secretly writes a steamy serial for a men's magazine. Now, she's been given the opportunity to add sports reporter to her repertoire when she's assigned to cover the Seattle Chinooks hockey team. The guys are less than enthusiastic about having her travel with the team and, boys being boys, you can imagine the hazing she has to endure! I must have laughed \\"Poor Jane\\" out loud hundreds of times! But winning over the guys is just one problem when you're a sports reporter carrying \\"Hockey for Dummies\\"!<br />Hunky goalie Luc Martineau initally ignores her, since he famously doesn't do interviews anyway, but he finds that he enjoys annoying and sparring with her. She may be short, but she's spunky, tough and can talk trash with the best of them! Luc's had a checkered past that he'd like to forget and he is trying very hard to put his \\"bad boy\\" image behind him. And now he has become responsible for a 16 year old sister he barely knows.  The last thing he needs is some reporter snooping around.<br />The verbal sparks soon turn to a sexual attraction that neither really wants. His life is so crazy with career pressure, his awkward, difficult relationship with his sister, not to mention that Jane is hardly his type - short, small chested and smart are not usually qualities he looks for, and yes, he knows what that says \\"aboot\\" him! And Jane's bad boy radar is working over time. The last thing she wants is to be seduced then dumped or worse have her heart broken by a jock who normally dates empty-headed Barbie Dolls. Hormones being what they are, though these two wind up together.<br />I won't go into more, but suffice it to say that complications arise and Luc's trust in Jane is threatened. Personally, I think Luc let her off a little too easily, but that's how love is, I suppose. <br />A terrific read, highly recommended! Rachel Gibson along with Julie Ortolon are contemporary authors converting this formerly historicals-only reader!	2003-04-16
US	40354595	R2ENYLTW1LL2EY	0440236185	93651929	Drive Me Wild	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sometimes it's just meant to be . . .	A first novel that really delivers!  My first book by this author was &quot;Lead Me On&quot;, then I read &quot;Falling for You&quot;.  I'm looking forward to reading &quot;Dear Cupid&quot; to bring me current (and can't wait for &quot;Don't Tempt Me&quot; due early in 2004).  Ms Ortolon's obvious love of Texas and her feel for small town life add to the charm of her stories.<br />Brent Michaels has really made it.  Handsome, wealthy Houston news anchor, he's come a long way from the abusive, wrong-side-of-the-tracks, poverty of his broken childhood.  No one in the small town of Beason's Ferry ever thought he'd amount to much, so he left and never looked back.  But a charity &quot;Dating Game&quot; event organized by the only friend he ever had brings him reluctantly back to his hated home town - on the condition that she is one of the contestants!<br />Laura Morgan, dutiful daughter of the town doctor, has never left Beason's Ferry.  She lives a sedate, conservative life organizing charity events and occassionally dating the town pharmacist.  She never misses the evening news watching Brent with pride, longing and a bit of envy, for she'd love to move to Houston and make her own life, but she's always felt a duty to stay with her father.<br />And so, when the former Brent Michael Zartlich selects Laura to be his date, they see each other again for the first time in years.  There is obvious attraction on both sides, but Brent tries hard not to act on it.  Laura's the white-picket-fence, two kids and a dog type and that life is definitely not for Brent.  With the childhood he had, he's convinced he'd make a lousy husband and father and has no intention of ever trying.  Laura assures him she's not looking for those things, and decides to move to Houston for the summer, get a job and pursue a relationship with Brent.  Things go well until they get serious, of course and I think I'll stop there.  You'll have to read it yourself to find out what happens!<br />Brent and Laura are both likeable characters, especially Brent - so smooth and confident on the outside, yet a bundle of insecurities inside, particularaly when dealing with the people from his past.  A recommended read!	2003-04-16
US	40354595	R124BPH30COLNJ	0380815265	625565407	The Seduction of Sara	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Another OK story with this over-done plot	There are so many of these rake-teaches-heroine-about-seduction stories, all done with varying degrees of success. This one was OK. Nothing fresh or new here, but I did find the lead characters, Sara and especially Nick (mmm, very sexy!) very likeable.<br />Nicholas Montrose, Earl of Bridgeton is newly arrived back home after years of wandering on the Continent. He left in disgrace (all of which was a bit unclear to me, not having read \\"The Abduction of Julia\\") and now, having won an estate in a card game, he has returned to re-establish himself in \\"respectable\\" society. His severe, debilitating headaches lead him to believe that his time on earth is limited, so he wants to put his house in order, find a luscious mistress and enjoy whatever time he has left.<br />Sara Lawrence, Lady Carrington, is a widow whose first husband humiliated her with his cheating. Sara has a wild streak and enjoys pushing the envelope of propriety, which has led her five over-protective older brothers to threaten to choose a husband for her - one that will keep her in line. Well, Sara will have none of that! So, while exiled to Bath, she looks in earnest for a husband she can control, not vice versa.<br />Nick and Sara meet and are instantly attracted, but both realize that neither is what the other is looking for. So Nick offers to help Sara find and seduce a husband all the while still hoping to make her his mistress instead. But fighting their attraction is more than either bargain for - can they do it, and if they can't what happens next?<br />There are some fine secondary characters - Sara's overbearing half-brother Anthony, Earl of Greyley and his hate-hate (or is it love-hate?) relationship with Sara's friend Anna Thraxton (\\"An Affair to Remember\\" is their story). Then there's Sara's cute Aunt Delphi and Nick's roguish friend Henri, the Comte du Lac. But my favourite character was Sara's second oldest brother, the enigmatic, charismatic, keenly intelligent Marcus, Marquis of Treymount - now his story I look forward to!	2003-04-07
US	40354595	RU6T9R14S9WDN	0373790651	183654163	The Ultimate Seduction (Harlequin Blaze, No 61)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sweet & Sexy Love Story	A great couple and a great story. I've always thought that contemporary romances were thin and lightweight compared to historical romances (which I still prefer), but authors like Janelle Denison, Julie Ortolon and Rachel Gibson might just make me re-think that opinion.<br />Noah Sommers, hunky, sexy PI and all around nice guy, has been quietly, doggedly pursuing waitress/student Natalie Hastings for seven long months. Unfortunately, Natalie's response continues to be an annoyingly familiar \\"No\\". She steadfastly refuses all Noah's attempts to take her out, though he thinks he sees suppressed interest in her eyes. What's her story and why won't she go out with him? He's about to find out when she finally agrees to let him walk her to her car one night.<br />Natalie Hastings is living a solitary, lonely life out of habit as well as necessity. Her early life in foster care prepared her well to survive on her own, but Noah Sommers personifies everything she longs for. He's handsome, sexy, sweet, considerate and protective and much as she'd love to have him in her life, she can't. It would endanger herself as well as him, for she is being stalked. She moved to Oakland from Reno to escape the guy, but fears she will never be safe. And as Noah walks her out, she sees her stalker following them, panics and runs - into the path of an oncoming car. <br />In order to stay near her at the hospital, Noah tells the staff he's her fiance - a lie that will domino into so many more when it is revealed that Natalie has suffered retrograde amnesia! While Noah hates the lies he feels compelled to tell, he's doing it all in order to keep her safe. And while Natalie may not be sure of much else in her mixed-up mind, she knows for certain that being with Noah is right and where she belongs. But Noah dreads the day when her memory returns - will she hate him for his deception? And can he catch her stalker before he can hurt Natalie again?<br />A terrific, fast-paced, sexy love story that I'm sure I'll read again! I'm going to check out the stories about Noah's brother Cole and sister Joelle as well. Recommended!	2003-04-07
US	40354595	R377US34QQQPUB	0312978723	564743304	Falling for You	Books	4	2	3	N	N	4 1/2 *s - Mr Slow and Steady meets Ms Full Speed Ahead!	Oliver \\"Chance\\" Chancellor is a good son of the country club set with his life and career mapped out. It is simply understood that he'll marry Paige, the daughter of his parents' best friends and will someday be the president of the bank his family founded. His nickname is almost a joke, since he's rarely taken a \\"chance\\" in his life!<br />But when free spirited, alluring, enthusiastic whirlwind Aurora St Claire re-enters his life, he's thrown for a loop. She comes upon him putting up a foreclosure sign on Pearl Island and immediately expresses an interest in buying it. She wants to turn the house into a B&B, but the skeptical Chance asks about her business plan, finances and other realities and sees her enthusiasm dim - but just a bit! Dazzled, he finds himself offering to help her pull together a business plan to submit for a bank loan. Chance had been in lust with Rory back in high school and is still fascinated and attracted, though she's totally wrong for him. While they work together on the plans, an attraction builds culminating in a frenzied sexual encounter that he immediately regrets, but she cherishes. He fully intends to go back to his carefully planned, comfortable life, and this reality soon smacks her in the face.<br />As Aurora and her siblings move forward with their plans for the inn, Chance watches from a distance, feeling a bit wistful, envious, left out and admiring of their willingness to take such risks to make their dream come true. In time, he is desperate to be a part of it all and offers to buy into the venture as a partner. Can he and Rory work in such close proximity without acting on the attraction that still exists between them? And why can't Chance feel this heady attraction with Paige?<br />Ultimately, Chance must face his feelings for both Rory and Paige and make some life changing choices. Meanwhile Rory begins to contemplate the consequences of her impulsive actions and fears that she has up-ended not only her life, but Chance's,Paige's and her siblings'. <br />An enjoyable story, endearing characters and a recommended read. I loved sister Allison's story \\"Lead Me On\\" and I look forward to brother Adrian's story \\"Don't Tempt Me\\" due in early \\"04.	2003-03-29
US	40354595	R37NN8TFV4CIK	0821772783	559837700	A Bicycle Built for Two: Meet Me at the Fair (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful, poignant story of opposites attract!	Alice Duncan superbly recreates the 1890's in this terrific tale of two people from completely different worlds who find what they didn't know they were looking for in each other.<br />Alex English is a fastidious, stuffy, proper gentleman farmer who is extremely proud of his participation in the World's Columbian Exposition being held in Chicago.  For him, the Expo showcases all that is good about America and should be an educational and uplifting experience for all who attend - and he will not allow anything to taint it.  But when a young woman who works at the Expo is attacked (and by her own father!), Alex is outraged and decides she has to go - can't have this sort of unpleasantness spoiling the Expo!<br />For Kate Finney, the Expo is just an opportunity to make a bit more money to support herself and her mother.  She's working two jobs, one at a fortune-telling booth and the other as an \\"Egyptian\\" dancer.  But her worthless drunk of a father has not only threatened her life, but now her livelihood - for when Alex English shows up, she knows with dread exactly why he's come.  But she's not going without a fight, darn it!  Alex is completely unprepared for her outrage and her fighting spirit!  He's never met anyone like Kate Finney!<br />Once Alex gets over the shock of his initial meeting with Kate, he becomes curious about her and learns of her desperate family circumstances.  Kate is waging a one-woman battle against poverty, an abusive, dangerous father and the tuberculosis ravaging her beloved mother.  When Alex takes steps to make what may be her mother's last weeks or months as comfortable as possible, Kate is initially suspicious and resentful.  But over time, she realizes that Alex is genuinely a nice guy with only pure motives.  Gee, it would be real nice to have a man like that in her life, but he's not for the likes of her - poor Kate Finney from the slums of Chicago.  As for Alex, he's come to admire Kate - she's smart, strong and beautiful and he longs to knock that chip off her shoulder and make her life better.  Would she even let him?<br />In a genre full of sometimes tawdry and empty stories with characters who manipulate and deceive one another, this was a breath of fresh air!  Well developed characters that you really care about and a terrific story.  Highly recommended!	2003-03-25
US	40354595	R3MZKD8KMULYQ3	0312983484	298863673	Lead Me On	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Warm, Funny Story of Unexpected Romance	Well, here's another 5 stars for Julie Ortolon's terrific \\"Lead Me On\\"!  I loved this story and these characters.  This is my first book by this author and it will definitely not be my last.  Matter of fact, I'm going to investigate her other books immediately!<br />This is the second in a trilogy of stories about the St Claire siblings.  Youngest sister Aurora's story started the series in \\"Falling for You\\", oldest brother Adrian will star in the upcoming \\"Don't Tempt Me\\".  \\"Lead Me On\\" is middle sister Allison's story and a very sweet, funny story it is!<br />Allison and her siblings run the Pearl Island Inn, a B&B they own on a private Island in Galveston.  Allison is thrilled when famed writer Scott Lawrence checks in for a month.  Scott has come to the supposedly haunted inn to try and cure his writer's block and maybe indulge in a little recreational sex.  Though Allison is petite and lovely, she screams \\"nice girl\\" and so Scott rules her off limits.  Alli, tired of having men overlook her, propositions Scott, much to his surprise!  They agree to a very adult, no strings attached, purely sexual one night fling.  Yeah, right.  Sure. After a wonderful night of passion it'll be simple to ignore each other for the remaining three weeks of his stay - NOT!<br />Though neither want feelngs to emerge, it seems to be inevitable.  And then things get very complicated.  For not only is Scott unwilling to open up about his life, he's been holding out on Allison about who he really is.  And Allison's desperation to keep her heart from being broken (again) make trust and a deeper relationship difficult.  It's a rocky road for these two, but you root for them every step of the way!<br />I loved the warmth and camaraderie of the St Claire family & friends.  And the sweet, warm relationship between Scott and his niece Chloe revealed that underneath his cool, aloof and often gruff exterior, was a really nice guy.  A highly recommended read!	2003-03-20
US	40354595	R2F5G7N2HBVQTU	0425164470	646929521	Illusion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bewitching, Emotional, Complex, Beautifully Written!	Jean Ross Ewing AKA Julia Ross just never disappoints. But be warned - her books are not light reading! Patience and attention are required, as the story unfolds with extreme subtlety. At times you may wonder (right along with Frances) what the heck is going on, but as layer upon layer of intrigue is revealed, things make sense eventually.<br />Illusion is the perfect title for this story for nothing and no one are what they seem! Nigel Arundham, Marquess of Rivaulx - peer, spy, codebreaker, soldier and rake is definitely the star of the book. Everyone - male and female - seems to be in love with the darkly handsome and complex Nigel. And then there is Frances Woodard, raised in England but a on trip to India with her botanist father, tragedy struck and she wound up in a Zenana - a Maharaja's harem - trained to be a Ganika (courtesan). Her arrival back in England provokes much speculation and she is brought to Nigel's attention when she is offered the protection of Lord Donnington, whom Nigel believes is a traitor. He plans to use Frances' notoriety and a gambling debt owed to him by Donnington to gain access to Donnington's home in order to find the evidence he needs to arrest him. Things take a tragic turn and the ensuing \\"orgy\\" is a disaster when Nigel is poisoned and Donnington turns up dead. Frances is overwhelmed and alarmed by Nigel and all the upheaval he has brought into her life. It's like she's once again in the harem with plots and danger everywhere. She is not happy when Nigel claims her as his mistress (though it's in name only). She had hoped for a quiet life with a older, kindly protector who would allow her some freedom but it is not to be.<br />As the action moves to Paris, we meet several other characters all with differing and multiple loyalties. Poor Frances cannot figure out what is happening or who to trust in this world of deep intrigue. But she thinks she glimpses moments of genuineness, kindness, true charm and humour in Nigel and she is helplessly drawn to him despite her fears. Nigel, on the otherhand, is fascinated by Frances. She may know all about the Kama Sutra and the mechanics of seduction, but exudes such purity and innocence that he is captivated. If they get out of Paris alive, will they trust each other enough to shed their outer layers and show their true selves? Is love possible for two people who've seen such ugliness?<br />I will admit and agree with another reviewer that there were a bit too many \\"dear God\\"s and \\"good God\\"s and that Nigel's quoting of poetry, literature and song was a bit over the top - after a while, I just stopped reading his quotes. But there was so much more to enjoy, that I could overlook those minor irritants. As for Frances being a \\"drip\\" (as one reviewer complained), Ms Ross Ewing's heroines are usually a bit subdued - quiet, well-mannered English girls with a lot of inner strength. It is her heroes who usually shine - either brightly like Alden in The Seduction, or darkly like Nicholas in My Dark Prince and Nigel here. <br />These books are not for everyone, but I certainly have enjoyed entering the bewitching worlds that Ms Ross Ewing creates. Highly recommended!	2003-03-17
US	40354595	R1LNRMB3IV3XQR	0821773844	692930895	AN Unforgettable Rogue (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Another war-wounded peer who needs love and healing	Alexandra has loved Bryce all her life.  To Bryce, she was his childhood shadow always following him around and getting him into trouble.  In a last (and futile) effort to gain his father's approval and respect, Bryce honors his father's deathbed request to go and fight Napoleon.  But before he leaves, he decides to marry Alex so that she can take care of his family (two nieces and uncle) while he is gone.  He leaves immediately after the vows are exchanged without a wedding night or staying for the reading of his father's will.  He should have stayed for that one, since the will stated that if Bryce married Alex (his father disliked and disapproved of her), he would lose everything but his title.<br />Alex does all she can to care for the family, tossed out by the new heir when Bryce is reported killed in action.  They move into Alex's run-down family manor but need money.  After grieving for a year, Alex agrees to marry Viscount Chesterfield for financial security.  But the ceremony is halted by a disheveled, limping, bearded Bryce seemingly back from the dead.<br />Yes, he's back but for how long?  Though he claims her from Chesterfield (his nemesis) he plans to annull their marriage and set Alex free to marry a man she can love.  She deserves better than a dispirited, broken man like him.  As he discovers what she's had to deal with in his absence he becomes increasingly ashamed of himself.  He's returned, but has nothing to offer her - no money, no estates only his loser self.<br />If only he knew that she has never stopped loving him.  But she won't show him that because she is still smarting from the fact that he waited a year to tell her that he was alive.  She decides to teach him a lesson by seducing him and then walking away.  See how he likes being left!  Alex slowly learns, however, that Bryce's war experiences have left him damaged not only physically, but spiritually and she longs to help him heal.  Will he let her?<br />I liked the family dynamic.  Love and concern for family is ultimately what keeps them together.  I found the soon-to-come-out Claudia and her relentless pursuit of Chesterfield amusing (\\"he's my destiny!\\") and six year old eavesdropper Beatrix (\\"Bumble Bea\\") just adorable.  It was also refreshing that Bryce (along with Alex) has to start over and build a new future instead inheriting one.  A good read, if a bit on the slow side.	2003-03-15
US	40354595	R1D67SZAXQJLF3	0380802309	753418941	Someone to Watch Over Me (Bow Street, Book 1)	Books	4	42	43	N	N	First of the terrific Bow Street Trilogy but not the best	Grant Morgan is a gruff, jaded but effective Bow Street Runner called to the docks to investigate a body pulled from the Thames.  It's a woman who's obviously been violently attacked - strangled and left to drown.  But Grant recognizes the woman as infamous demimondaine Vivien Duvall, a woman Grant has no liking for since she started untrue rumours that he was desperate to have her and she refused him.  On closer inspection he finds that she's not dead and, on impulse, takes her to his home to recuperate.<br />When she regains consciousness, it's clear that she's got amnesia.  Grant decides to take some petty, childish revenge by using Vivien while she's vulnerable then dumping her.  But he does not count on the effects of the amnesia on her.  She's so different from the woman he and the rest of Society know.  She's sweet, unassuming, kind and he reluctantly finds himself growing more and more attracted to her - and not just sexually.  Meanwhile, she is completely incredulous when Grant tells her of the depraved life she leads, but with no memory she has no choice but to believe him.  And now she must allow herself to be used as bait to catch the person who so obviously wanted her dead.  What a frightening prospect for a woman who has no memory of anyone she meets!  Her attempted killer could be anyone!<br />Though I enjoyed the story, I did feel that the lead characters were a bit one-dimensional and could have been better developed.  And Grant's petty anger over a fairly innocuous bit of gossip from a courtesan was a bit irrational.  But I did like Grant's gruff protectiveness and felt compassion for her unenviable confusion and fear.  <br />I really enjoyed this trilogy - this was followed by Lady Sophia's Lover and then Worth Any Price.  I was fascinated by the workings of Bow Street, the political opposition to it and the power (and the way he did not abuse it) of the yummy, dreamy, sexy Sir Ross Cannon.  Recommended.	2003-03-11
US	40354595	R3RDSKMLASHQKZ	0553576194	954184822	Sweet Talking Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Connor Sullivan Barrow was certainly a charmer!	This is my fifth book by Ms Krahn and yet another confirmation of her talent.  She tells such terrific stories with lots of humour, sensuous romance and an examination of the major issues of the period.  This time, it's 1892 New York, the Tammany Hall political machine and the Women's Suffrage movement.<br />Beatrice Von Furstenburg is a hard-nosed business woman who was given the reins of Consolidated Industries on the death of her elderly husband much to the dismay of it's otherwise male board of directors.  She's also guardian for her niece, 16 year old Priscilla, who is madly in love and wants to marry her 18 year old beau.  Beatrice claims not to have a romantic bone in her body and repeated tells them they're too young and stupid to marry.  Frustrated, they hatch a hairbrained scheme intended to change Beatrice's low opinion of Jeffrey but the scheme goes terribly wrong and the teens must look to Jeffrey's estranged cousin to get them all out of this mess!<br />Connor Sullivan Barrow is focused on running for Congress and wants nothing to do with \\"precious Jeffrey\\" or his problems.  But he winds up involved and once he meets Beatrice, he's helplessly intrigued.  \\"I was always taught to beware a touch of red in a woman's hair.  It bespeaks a strong will.  But, speakin' personally, I like a strong bit of will in a woman.  Always a site more enjoyable than a strong bit of won't\\".  And so starts the charm offensive!  On the outside, she's unmoved, but on the inside, she must admit that his \\"smile was pure alchemy\\" and she starts to slowly fall.<br />But the road to romance is quite rocky for these two.  She pushes him to endorse the suffrage movement, his bosses in Tammany Hall tell him never to see her again.  She has to contend with a mutiny in her board of directors and he has to choose between her and his political future.  And then there is his hostile estranged WASP grandfather who never forgave Connor for marrying a \\"shanty Irish\\" girl so far beneath him (she ultimately died) and for turning his back on the family and it's banking interests.  And almost every problem in their relationship seems to be splashed in the headlines of the newspapers, compounding the problems these two face.<br />I really had fun reading this story, as with all the author's other stories.  The lead couple was smart, sexy, conflicted and utlimately perfect for each other.  You hoped Beatrice would lighten up and you adored Connor all the while hoping, along with Beatrice, that his \\"sweet talk\\" was sincere!<br />Another enjoyable, fun and romantic read from Betina Krahn!	2003-03-10
US	40354595	R3U0F546LOAC4B	0515134902	685745132	Master of Castle Glen (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great story, really likable hero and heroine you can respect	Ana Seymour has left behind Elizabethan Ireland and the Riordan clan of her last four books and moved to 1885 Scotland. Fiona MacLennan, widowed four months, is dreading the arrival of the new laird of Castle Glen. The new laird should be her stepson, 14 year old Robby, but a 150 year old will has stipulated that after 5 generations the title will go to the next direct heir of Fergus Campbell. Duncan Campbell has never set foot in Scotland. He's a wealthy and successful New York businessman whose estranged, now dead father never got the auld sod out of his blood. He's not sure what to expect or even why he's come but he suspects it has something to do with the fact that nothing Duncan achieved was ever good enough in his father's eyes. Now the son is making the triumphant return the father never did.<br />Fiona expects a loud, obnoxious, poorly dressed and ill-mannered clod to step off the train but to her surprise, he's tall, dark and handsome, well dressed and polite. Robby takes an instant liking to the observant, confident newcomer, but Fiona is determined to dislike him. She's found what she thinks is a way to overturn the courts' decision and return Castle Glen to it's rightful heir, Robby, but until she hears from the lawyers she just has to make the best of things.<br />As the two take each other's measure, each begins to grudgingly like the other. Duncan is impressed with Fiona's loyalty to Robby and her handling of the estate in Alasdair's declining year. Fiona sees immediately that this man is very, very smart, enjoys a challenge and makes every effort to fit into this new world so different from the drawing rooms of New York Society (his determination to learn to ride a horse is adorable and funny). Eventually, he wins over Robby, the household staff and even the reluctant Fiona. But when he starts to modernize and look for ways to make the estate profitable again, he runs afoul of many in Glencolly, not least Fiona. Can he make them see that the only way to save Castle Glen is to bring it (albeit slowly) into the Industrial Age?  And what if the courts determine that Robby is, in fact the rightful laird, can Duncan just walk away - and does Fiona really want him to?<br />I loved this story. The romance between Duncan and Fiona was sweet and believable. The relationship between Duncan and Robby was everything Duncan had wished he'd had with his own father. And Fiona's realization that her beloved late husband was really more father figure and a bit of a coward when it came to facing unpleasant problems (the opposite of the bold, take-charge Duncan) was bittersweet. Then there's the ghost of Jaime MacLennan lurking about causing mischief - or is he making things right? And is he real or some Highland madness?<br />A highly recommended read!	2003-03-03
US	40354595	R2CSDST8BZCX2A	0515132543	571876005	Rose in the Mist (Irish Eyes)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another winner from Ana Seymour	This second in the Riordan brothers trilogy is about youngest brother Niall. He has accompanied compatriot and family friend Dr John Black to the court of Queen Elizabeth to broker a peace treaty on behalf of The O'Neill, the Irish rebel leader. Niall is certainly no diplomat being young and impetuous and he is quickly frustated by Lord Wolverton's rudeness and refusal to meet with them. Niall confronts him in the dining hall one night accompaning his beautiful young ward to dinner. Catriona Sherwood looks bored with it all on the outside, but is keenly observing the two newcomers and their mission. For Cat is not what she seems. She's a rebel spy for the Cleary's who are opposed to peace and will not rest until the English are finally and completely driven out of Ireland. She vividly recalls the day English soldiers raided her home, killed her father and seized the O'Malley lands that were her inheritance. Lord Wolverton took her in and raised her in his household, but she has carried her hatred of the English inside ever since.<br />Cat and her friend Bobby are determined to thwart John and Niall's efforts for peace and they hatch a treacherous plan that results in Niall being charged with a crime he did not commit and both Niall and John are imprisoned in the Tower. Their lawyer, fellow Irishman and friend, the flamboyant and sly Truly Fitzpatrick reveals to John and Niall that Cat is not only a deceitful liar, she's also a rebel spy and the daughter of Lorcan O'Malley and that all they have to do to free themselves is to expose this spy to the Queen. Surprisingly both Niall and John object to endangering Cat but for very different reasons. Niall's is obvious - he's infatuated with the lovely Cat. But John shows more of a fatherly interest where Cat is concerned and all wonder why. But Truly ignores his clients wishes and soon John and Niall are released and Cat is now the one imprisoned. What none count on is the unpredictable Queen herself, whose fondness for Cat leads her to a decision. Cat and Niall will marry, return to Ireland and thus, Cat will become Niall Riordan's problem. <br />And so, Cat O'Malley and Niall Riordan are married by royal decree, but will the initial attraction they had felt be able to over come the lies, deceit and treachery of Cat's actions? Can he ever trust her again, and will she choose love over vengence? And where has John Black gone off to, what's this \\"investigation\\" he is conducting and what is his connection to Cat O'Malley?<br />I must say, I was not particularly sympathetic to Cat for a good part of the book. Niall was so sweet, kind and lovable that it made her deceit that much worse. I could see why Niall's brothers refused to trust her and fully understood Niall's reserve and confusion. I wanted more remorse from Cat and that's why I could not rate this at 5 stars. But still another good read from a consistently good author.	2003-03-01
US	40354595	R284P34IL1GDZ9	051513385X	529635740	Irish Gypsy (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Warm and wonderful story of love and understanding	This is the last in a trilogy about the wonderful Riordan brothers (leave it to me to start at the end!). Actually, I was first introduced to Ana Seymour with \\"Maid of Killarney\\", a book about Riordan family friend John Black (loved it!). Both are terrific, well written stories with really lovable characters and I look forward to more books by this author.<br />Maura was raised in her father's gypsy camp never really knowing her Gajo (Irish, non-gypsy) mother. But when her father dies and the malevolent Pietro takes over, she knows she must flee. In her desperation to escape Pietro's unwanted attentions, she steals a horse from a nobleman, hitting him on the head with a rock to ensure her escape. Seven years later, she comes across a familiar-looking man tied to a tree by his rambunctious nephews. Amused, she unties him but soon recognizes the man whose horse she stole years before!  She abruptly and quickly walks away before he can recognize and stop her.<br />Eamon Riordan belatedly recognizes her as well, but this was not the scrawny teen he remembers, but a beautiful young woman with wild red hair and incredible blue eyes!  With no hope of finding her again, he departs to visit relatives in the north. In his absence, Maura finds herself hired as tutor to Cormac and Claire Riordan's three high spirited children not knowing that this is Eamon's family. But when Eamon returns, she fears her days are numbered - especially when he discovers that this \\"teacher\\" cannot even read! Because the children adore her (and maybe for other reasons as well!) he keeps her secrets from his brother and offers to help her teach the children. While he knows that she cannot read and that she stole his horse, he does not know of her gypsy past and Maura plans to keep it that way, rightly or wrongly. Maura and Eamon fall for one another, but her gypsy past intrudes and upheaval follows. Will Maura trust Eamon with ALL of the truths about her past and will their love survive it?<br />Loved this story, Eamon and Maura, and the whole Riordan clan. Ms Seymour creates warm and likable characters you enjoy spending time with. My only complaint is with Maura's lack of trust in Eamon, who had surely proven himself one of the most understanding and kind men ever born!<br />A recommended read.	2003-02-26
US	40354595	RBW415YIFXU3S	0843951354	441281383	Lord Ruin	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Sensuous arranged marriage story with some surprises	\\"Never, ever, has it mattered what I want.  Not to anyone\\".  So says Anne Sinclair to her brand new husband.  She is extremely unhappy to have been forced to marry Ruan Bettancourt, Lord Cynssyr - AKA \\"Lord Ruin\\", \\"Insincere Cynssyr\\".  She had hoped to stop the rake from courting her sister, Emily, but not this way!  Unfortunately, she and Ruan were caught in a scandalous position that she barely remembers (she was in a laudanum-induced stupor at the time). <br />Anne is considered a spinster at 25 and though pretty, can't compete with her beautiful sisters.  Most men overlooked her, but not Devon Carlisle who, beyond Anne's wildest dreams, had intended to marry her.  Now all that has changed.  \\"I am very good at making the best of things\\" Anne says with resignation.  Soon she is pregnant and any remaining hopes of annullment or divorce are squelched.<br />Ruan, on the other hand, is surprised to find himself almost content with his situation.  Rather than rant, rave and take it all out on Anne by making her life miserable (though it was all his fault to begin with), Ruan decides to make the best of it and hopes Anne will too.  Inexplicably, he is drawn to his wife with a passion that shocks him.  Not only does he desire her desperately, he finds himself liking her, respecting her and comes to value her opinion.  <br />Though the sex is great, he's making little progress in tearing down the wall Anne has built around herself to keep him out.  And Anne is desperate to keep him out.  She knows his reputation for breaking hearts and knows she is vulnerable to his charms.  When she asks to go to his estates in Cornwall until the baby comes, he looks for an excuse to keep her in town.  On impulse he asks her to assist in his investigation of a series of assaults on women of the ton.  Though he knows this is likely a mistake, he just can't let her leave - because he's falling in love with her.<br />And so Ruan must try to prove his love to his disbelieving wife, solve themystery of the assaults, and both must overcome their jealousy - Ruan of Devon and Anne of Ruan's mistress Katie.<br />I enjoyed this story and I liked the lead characters.  Ruan was a bit of a surprise in his actions and I liked that.  Anne exasperated me bit with her disbelief in her husband, but I admired her strength of character and backbone.  I understand their are possible sequels involving Devon, Emily, Lucy and Lord Thrale and I look forward to continuing to read about this circle of family and friends.	2003-02-25
US	40354595	R20KAESRUYCY4R	0451207726	59813245	Valentine's Change of Heart (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Moving story of loss, regret, redemption and love - 4 1/2 *s	As others have suggested, I also recommend reading \\"Captain Cupid Calls the Shots\\" before you dive into this one. Matter of fact, the only reason I read that one was because I wanted to read this one so bad! The references to Valentine's past are all rooted in that story and may not be satisfactorily explained here.<br />Valentine Wharton is a former soldier and recovering alcoholic with an illegitimate daughter and lots of demons to exorcise. He lost the woman he loved to his best friend and, unable to cope with a child and his own problems, packed her off to boarding school. Now Felicity is 9 years old and Val is ready to try and build a relationship with his daughter, having conquered most of his demons. He plans a holiday to Wales and when he arrives at her school, he meets and is intrigued by Miss Elaine Deering, the teacher Felicity writes so warmly of in her letters. He hopes to have Miss Deering come along as governess, but his reputation has preceded him and she is reluctant to agree. She has worked for a man who could not keep his hands to himself before and will not do so again. But that man, Lord Palmer, has just caused her to lose her position, telling the headmistress unsavory lies about Elaine. And so, it looks like Wales for \\"dear Miss Deering\\"!<br />The trip to Wales is a revelation for Elaine. This man, whose reputation is of a drunken womanizer, is nothing but kind, considerate and gentlemanly toward her. His efforts to get to know his daughter are bittersweet and not always easy. But Val is determined and patient and Elaine offers subtle support to both father and daughter. She is also relieved to see that this former drunkard now drinks tea exclusively. Elaine watches him waging daily battle against his past with growing admiration.  He seems to be winning with one exception - is he still in love with Penny Foster (Shelbourne)?  Though she has no right to, she fervently hopes not, for she's fallen for her handsome employer.<br />While Valentinestill thinks of Penny with longing and regret, he finds himself thinking of Elaine with increasing frequency. He is attracted to her dark hair and eyes, her sweet lips, her calm, cool delicacy. But he must not scare her away by coming off as Palmer did. And so he woos her slowly, subtly, but to what purpose? What does he want from \\"dear Deering\\", his daughter's governess? Is he no better than Palmer?<br />This is a very moving story of a flawed soul striving to be a better man - to earn his daughter's affection and respect and a second chance at love. A highly recommended read!	2003-02-22
US	40354595	R1Y4CAI40FPV3	0451201981	734492971	Captain Cupid Calls the Shots (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very emotional story with compelling characters	Don't let the title put you off - this is not some silly romp (not by a long shot!).  I'm not normally a reader of the more traditional (i.e., chaste) Regencies, but I came across the write-up and review for the sequel to this book \\"Valentine's Change of Heart\\" and I was hooked.  I wanted to read that one so bad, but took the advice of reviewers that I should read \\"Cupid\\" first.  And so I have.  And I agree with that advice.<br />Three friends returning from war to the home of one, Valentine Wharton.  His companions, Oscar and Alexander (known as \\"Cupid\\" for his marksmanship in battle - straight for the heart) are putting off their own homecomings, their feelings mixed and confused after years of war.  What to do next?  What else are they good for but war?  How do they go back to living a normal life?  Oscar copes by spending his time fishing, Alexander prefers to walk the desolate fells alone (in the hopes of meeting a certain young lady), and Valentine drinks - heavily and destructively.<br />During the visit, Alexander meets Penny Foster and is instantly attracted by her fair curls, amethyst eyes and sweet but wary disposition.  He is also confused by Valentine's nasty remarks and innuendo about her virtue as well as the way the rest of the village treats her.  When he discovers the young child in her care, he wonders if this child is hers and could the father be his friend Valentine?  Did Valentine once love Penny and is this why he treats her so badly?  Has she earned the gossip and speculation that seems to follow her about?  Alexander is determined to find out, all the while falling deeper.  <br />Penny has sacrificed much for little Felicity and seeing Val again brings back so many memories and fears.  How he has changed - it's hard to imagine she ever loved him now.  But she is certainly taken with Alexander.  He's kind, open-minded and she looks forward to spending time with him.  Can he see past the assumptions everyone has about her and see the truth ofthe woman she is?<br />This is a highly emotional read, so keep the tissues nearby.  The author's style is not for everyone, very literary with in-depth descriptions of the surrounding countryside that really brings home the feel of the era and the area.  I'm currently reading \\"Valentine's Change of Heart\\" and so far that one is a winner as well.  I highly recommend these books!	2003-02-19
US	40354595	R3OH21DF8TLKOS	0759550344	75235556	Incognito	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Great, witty story - a very promising new author!	The manuscript for this story was initially submitted to iPublish.com and the positive feedback from readers there resulted in the publication of this (short - 163 pages) story.  I heartily encourage fans of Austen, Wilde and Shakespeare's comedies to give this book a read and encourage this author in future endeavors!<br />The book is billed as \\"A Regency romp of matchmaking and mistaken identity\\" and this description is right on the mark.  The author has a good feel for the language and proprieties of Regency England and will remind one of Austen and Wilde - another reviewer likened it to \\"The Importance of Being Earnest\\" and that is quite close.  <br />After the death of their father, the Smithfield daughters have only one hope - to marry well.  How fortuitous that the Duke of Alford has decided that it is time for his son to settle down and marry and who better than the eldest daughter of his late wife's friend, Miss Lydia Smithfield.  But, unbeknownst to anyone else, Lydia's heart is engage elsewhere and her younger sister Emily is willing to \\"sacrifice\\" and marry Lord Wesleigh in her sister's place.  Emily is bored with country life and longs for London, travel and excitement.  <br />Meanwhile, Lord Wesleigh vows to determine his intended's true character by arriving incognito as a curate.  He meets both Smithfield sisters, but is attracted to the dark, gypsy-like younger sister Emily.  And he knows that his friend, vicar Sedgewick carries a (very subdued) torch for Miss Lydia.  Can he and Emily encourage a romance between Lydia and Sedgewick?  And What about their own attraction to each other?  Can Emily truly be happy with a penniless curate?  And things are further complicated when Wesleigh's friend, Sir Marcus Redding arrives in Stonehurst masquerading as Lord Wesleigh!  Stonehurst is in for some unaccustomed excitement!<br />I highly recommend this book and look forward to future stories told by this author!	2003-02-17
US	40354595	R131QEQ44RLZIS	0060002700	716096268	The Rose and the Shield	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good leads and story, but too slow to start, too abrupt end	3 1/2 stars.  I have to disgree with other reviews in that I did not find this a fast paced read.  I found the beginning quite slow and was tempted to skip ahead - something I rarely do.<br />While Gunnar (oooh, yum!) and Rose are both engaging and likable characters, I was frustrated by how long it took for them to even have a one-on-one private conversation, let alone anything more romantic!  Once they do get together passion swirls and the pace picks up, but then the end seems too quick and abrupt for my taste.  It seemed like we went from distrust to love in, like two pages!<br />The story itself is good, if familiar (see Lady of Valor by Tina St John).  Widow and Lady of the Manor trying to keep what's hers hires mercenaries not realizing that they come from her overlord, Radulf, who suspects her of treason.  Rose does not go to her overlord for help because she is afraid of appearing weak.  Responsibility and duty weight heavily on Rose and in those solitary moments at her solar window, she longs for someone to share her burdens. <br />Gunnar Olafson is the son of Radulf's armourer and is tired of the mercenary life.  He wants land and a home he can call his own, and if Rose is found to be a traitor, Radulf will reward him with Somerford Manor.  And so, these two have to decide whether they can trust one another, all the while they are attracted to each other.  While sharing a bed, they refuse to share their innermost thoughts and certainly not their hearts.  But when the true threat to Somerford is revealed, they have no choice but to trust one another to survive.<br />This is the second book from this author and while I enjoyed both, I prefer \\"Lily and the Sword\\" to this one.  Looks like Ms Bennett has another book due out soon (she certainly cranks them out quick) and I will likely also check that one (Once He Loves) out as well.	2003-02-14
US	40354595	R3PMUZBWTGCUPS	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	4	25	27	N	N	More bittersweet than the usual Kinley read	Typically, this author's stories are fast and funny, but this book is more bittersweet, sad and a bit slower paced. That's not to say that there is no humor here - Sin displays his trademark sarcasm and then there's Simon who's perpetually cheerful and mischievous. But this is a story of a man who has lead a tragic life bereft of love, companionship, compassion and exposed to cruelty, pain and death - and often death has occurred by his own hand. He is not proud of the things he's done, but he did them in order to survive. And until he met Caledonia MacNeely, he never really cared what anyone thought of him. But she's different. First, she's not afraid of him, but more importantly, she's not repelled by him and seems to almost like him as incredulous as that seems to Sin MacAllister.<br />Which is a good thing since King Henry wants them to marry in order to bring her clan under his control. Though neither is thrilled about the marriage, both see no way out. Sin figures on bringing the rebels in her clan to justice then annulling the marriage - for surely she will not want to stay married to a man like him. Though he finds himself wishing he could be the kind of man she deserves. She's so warm and sweet and determined to look past his reputation and deeds and see him as no one else does. Too bad she won't accept that he has no heart, no soul.<br />Meanwhile, Callie sees the marriage as her fate and the way to bring peace to her people. And staying married to him seems less of a sacrifice the more she gets to know him. Not only is he handsome (as, well . . . sin!) he is ever kind and considerate of her and he has a warm and playful side that no one else ever sees. She is aware of his plan to leave, but is determined to prove to him that he is capable and worthy of love. That she loves him and that maybe he could love her, too - if he would let himself. She's in for a frustrating fight, but she's more than up to the challenge!<br />A good read, but at times I found Sin's pathetic life almost too sad, too much. It's amazing that he never just slit his wrists and ended his misery. But thankfully, he didn't and we get to see him and his adorable brothers in this second installment of the series. Fans will worry for Ewan, however, (who will be the subject of the next book) who seems to spend all his time drowning in ale and his own guilt over brother Kieran's death.  Another lost soul to be redeemed!	2003-02-10
US	40354595	R1RPN0ZQ8Y5OMN	0380811073	751978069	Worth Any Price (Bow Street, Book 3)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Nice follow-up to "Lady Sophia's Lover"	We first met Nick Gentry in \\"Lady Sophia's Lover\\" when he was a famous/infamous crimelord/thief-taker.  His capture meant hanging - except that his sister happened to be married to the Chief Magistrate.  Since accepting his brother-in-law, Sir Ross Cannon's proposition to \\"go straight\\" and become a Bow Street Runner, Nick is now a success and the best runner there is.  He has taken on a private commission to find the runaway fiance of Lord Radnor and he finds her working as a companion to dowager Lady Westcliff.  Up to now, Charlotte \\"Lottie\\" Howard has evaded Lord Radnor for two years and Nick is impressed and attracted by her.  She's spirited, but wary and tends to live for the moment, enjoying long walks, dragonflies, wishing wells and May Day celebrations.  He is reluctantly charmed and knows that he cannot turn her over to Lord Radnor only to be crushed into submission.  Besides, he wants her for himself.  So he offers to marry her to take her out of Radnor's reach.  She agrees and so begins the bittersweet journey toward trust, friendship, sexual fulfillment and ultimately love for this couple.  Nick and Lottie are well suited and sweet together, both working hard to understand and support each other even while they hold part of themselves back.  But trust and love do come as they realize their need for each other.<br />Though this story lacks some of the sparkle of \\"Lady Sophia's Lover\\", it's still an enjoyable and recommended read. It was great to see characters from LSL again - Ross is still dreamy, Grant is still wry and Sophia is still her sweet, perceptive and supportive self.  We see Nick's resentment of Ross's interference in his life turn finally to gratitude and even respect.  Nick may have lost his father years ago, but between Ross and Grant, he has two men looking out for him and in the long run he recognizes this.<br />I have to agree with another reviewer that the blurb on the back of the book is quite misleading and overblown.  While he may be a skillful lover, it was not always so and is certainly not commonly known as the prologue clearly demonstrates.  Such hyperbole is really unnecessary.<br />I'm wondering if we'll see a story about Lord Westcliff.  It seemed more time was spent introducing him than is usual for a fairly minor character.  And I still think Dr. Linley (LSL) would be fun to investigate as well - I like his sense of humor!e a skillful lover, it was not always so and is certainly not commonly known as the prologue clearly demonstrates.  Such hyperbole is really unnecessary.<br />I'm wondering if we'll see a story about Lord Westcliff.  It seemed more time was spent introducing him than is usual for a fairly minor character.  And I still think Dr. Linley (LSL) would be fun to investigate as well - I like his sense of humor!	2003-02-05
US	40354595	R2LQ06MW4DQPCD	0060002697	224634936	The Lily and the Sword	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Passionate Medieval	Lady Wilfreda, English noblewoman, grandaughter of Norse King Harold Haardrada is being hunted by the Normans - namely by Radulf known as \\"the King's Sword\\".  Radulf's fierce and frightening reputation has preceded him into Northumbria and Lady Wilfreda has fled.  It is Radulf's mission to find her and bring her before King William who will either marry her off to one of his nobles or kill her.  Radulf has no sympathy for a treacherous woman - he's had one in his life already and has no intention of repeating his past mistake of trusting a woman. <br />The Lady Wilfreda, called Lily by those who love her, has been used by men.  Her father was murdered and she was forced to wed his murderer - renegade Norman Vorgen.  She endured a dreadful life with him full of abuse.  Then when Vorgen was killed, her kinsman, Hew took up arms in her name.  All Lily wants is peace and prosperity for her people - she's no rebel.  But she knows that neither William nor his Sword will believe she is innocent.  When Radulf encounters her she lies and tells him her name is Lily and that she is the daughter of a loyal vassal.  Radulf is not sure he believes her, but takes her to his camp.  He'll find out what's true eventually, but in the meantime, he is attracted to her in a way he has never felt before.  And if he is not mistaken, she feels a similar pull toward him.  And so begins a very passionate relationship founded on lies, fear and suspicion, but with the potential to be the real thing.  For both want each other despite their doubts and wariness.  Even finding out the truth about Lily does not dim his need to have her and so to save her from his king, her marries her.  But there are still lots of obstacles to overcome and trust to be won on both sides.  <br />I liked both Radulf's and Lily's characters and their romance was full of passion and longing.  The story moved along well and had lots of action to augment the romance.  But I do have a pet peeve:  the cover is one of those gross Fabio-esque deals with the hero sporting long flowing hair.  But to quote the book \\"His hair was very dark and cut short over his skull, shorter even than the Norman fashion\\".  A little more accuracy and class in the cover would be welcome - sleeveless chain mail with nothing under it but heaving chest and bulging biceps - UGH!.	2003-02-04
US	40354595	R1B1PW2BLT5Q9J	0515131555	472899476	Night Shadow	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great story full of action, passion and conflict	This trilogy started with &quot;My Lord Pirate&quot; which introduced the Drake brothers - former English aristocracy wrongly accused of treason.  &quot;Night Shadow&quot; continues and expands on the story and focuses on Marcus Drake, the second son who blames himself for much of what has befallen his family.  But also to blame are his former friend Harrison Kendrick (who actually betrayed him) and the man they were turned over to: El Condor, AKA Gabriel de Espinosa y Ramirez, Almirante of the Spanish fleet and ruthless pirate hunter.  Marcus and his brother Talon spent years in a Spanish dungeon thanks to El Condor.  Needless to say, they hate his guts!<br />But Marcus has a more immediate problem just now.  Having wound up in Spanish hands again, he is asked to captain the ship when most of it's crew are swept overboard in a savage storm.  He reluctantly agrees, but only if he and his fellow prisoners are given their freedom.  The young Spanish noblewoman agrees - anything to save the ship, especially her niece Christina who is also on board.  But she cannot let Marcus find out that she is Maria Liandra Espinosa y Ramirez, sister of El Condor, nor that Christina is his daughter!  What revenge might he visit upon them?<br />Marcus finds out almost immediately, but keeps the knowledge to himself.  As the days pass, Liandra is amazed to discover that Marcus Drake is a good guy - kind, smart, tough and self-deprecating, not to mention very handsome!  And Marcus is equally fascinated by this unlikely dona.  She seems to have no fashion sense, no awareness of her appeal and none of the haughtiness he would have expected.  She's earthy and compassionate and brave.  When they finally act on their mutual attraction, their timing could not be worse - for they have been pursued and caught by El Condor himself!  And when Gabriel discovers their relationship, he forces them to wed - knowing that Liandra will soon be a widow anyway.  <br />As the action moves to Puerto Bello,events bring the two together again.  As they try to figure out if they have a future, they must face their pasts and the harsh realities of their present.  Can they forge a future when their families and countries are bitter enemies?  <br />The last (and best) story of the trilogy is &quot;Heart of the Condor&quot; and you can guess who it's about (I just love that book!).  This is a great trilogy from a great author.  Laura Renken writes keepers!	2003-01-26
US	40354595	R154KDSY0HVN2W	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Nice balance of romance and mystery - great leads	My first book by this author was a very enjoyable read - 4 1/2 stars.  Great mystery and lead characters in Catherine and Max.  I liked her a lot - country widow newly arrived in London for that change of scenery she needs to start living again.  She's curious, spunky  and just slightly more polished and conventional than Max, though he refuses to see it.  For she is a lady and he, well . . .<br />Maximilian De Rohan is of Italian, Spanish and Alsace blood and came to England as a 16 year old refugee from the Napoleonic wars.  His home destroyed, his father murdered and suffering survivor's guilt, he makes a life for himself in London as a runner and then a river policeman and now as a magistrate for the Home Office.  While working a police corruption case, he covertly observes Catherine on her morning ride in Hyde Park and admires her from afar.  But when she unwittingly gets too close to his quarry, he pulls her into a kiss so that neither will be identified.  And with that kiss, a romance is begun that she is all too willing to pursue, but that he fights.  The last thing he wants is to be used to warm some rich widow's bed - he's been down that road before.  But a murder investigation involving mutual friends brings them together and though Max is wary of Catherine and her motives, he is also falling fast under her spell.<br />When his meddling, tarot card-reading grandmother meets Catherine, she is sure that she is \\"the one\\", but Max bluntly tells her to butt out (and of course she ignores him!).  While Catherine is uncomfortable and a bit disturbed by what the cards revealed, she is determine to prove to Max that she cares for him and that his station in life means little to her.  As Max slowly lets his guard down and starts to trust Catherine, she becomes more involved in the investigation and ultimately stumbles onto a key piece of evidence and into serious danger.  Can Max save her?  Will they have a future together?  Read this book and find out!<br />Lots of great secondary characters - Constable Sisk, the fastidious and witty George Kemble, Max's grandmother, Catherine's aunt, street urchin Nate (not to mention Max's dog Lucifer) all added to the story.  They all serve to show Max that a man who engenders such loyalty from such disparate people could also deserve the love of a wonderful woman - no matter what anyone else thinks!	2003-01-24
US	40354595	R1HFM5U79U4LV4	0553584898	3755952	Almost a Princess	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting intrigue;  subdued but sweet romance	My first novel by this author was an interesting story of the now familiar spy/war hero/earl changed by his war experiences and the one woman who inexplicably worms her way into his heart and mind.<br />I liked Case's character.  As one other reviewer pointed out, he enjoys his life, his position, his friends but below the surface you know that he recognizes that there is more to life.  He doesn't wear his heart on his sleeve in the least and the affect of his war experience is subtle and kept to himself.  He is involved in a murder investigation that links back to his activities during the war in Spain and knows that a final cat and mouse game to the death is now afoot between himself and his nemesis, Gideon Piers.<br />He needs to speak to Piers' sister but to find her he must go through a Miss Jane Mayberry, a bluestocking crusader for women's rights who seems inordinately worried about protecting not only the privacy of her friend, but also herself.  She exudes distrust and dislike for men and he wonders why.  And in a 24 hour period, he sees her as bluestocking, then as lovely debutante at the opera with friends, and then she disappears!  His interest is definitely piqued and when they meet again, they become entangled in a romance that reveals her past and the endgame for Case and our villain.<br />For me, the romance was almost secondary, subdued but I did not really mind too much.  The rest of the story was very well developed and even the bad guy had some interesting motivations and characteristics.  Sure, he uses the heroine to taunt our hero, but not in the usual hero-saves-her-life-in-the-last-ten-pages fashion.  Almost the opposite.  Sure things are tidied-up conveniently at the end, but not in an altogether unbelievable way.<br />I liked this story and some of the secondary characters were great as well - her dog Lance was lovable, Harper was gruffly sweet, Ruggles was a surprise and then there's the charismatic and enigmatic Waldo who looks to be thehero of her next novel.  Likable characters and an enjoyable read.	2003-01-23
US	40354595	R3FY5IIHFHR30H	0553565222	646699619	The Last Bachelor	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful, witty look at Victorian gender roles and values	Yet another terrific story from Ms. Krahn.  This is the fourth of her books that I've read and enjoyed and this and \\"The Mermaid\\" are my favourites so far.  A Victorian battle of the sexes that leads to some very witty and sweet moments.  Two lead characters that you just adore and root for eventhough they are at cross purposes - at least in the beginning!<br />Remington Carr, Earl of Landon is a proponent of women's rights and an opponent of marriage.  He suggests that marriage should be abolished and both men and women should earn their own way.  No more kept women sitting around eating bon-bons!  Antonia Paxton is appalled and disgusted by these views.  Being a widow, she knows first hand that marriage is the only place where a woman can feel safe, protected and provided for.  She has taken several widows with no where else to go into her home and has helped marry off several more.  When she and Remington meet 1. sparks fly and 2. she challenges him to a wager.  He does \\"women's work\\" for two weeks and if he changes his opinion he must publicly retract his past statements; if he does not, she will then do two weeks of \\"men's work\\".  Needless to say, these role reversals offer lots of very funny moments and both think they're so slick!  And by the end of the wager both find themselves very far from their original positions and desperately in love!<br />Ms. Krahn writes some great dialog - wry and sardonic - and creates a very authentic Victorian atmosphere.  Queen Victoria makes an appearance and the scurrilous Fleet Street tabloids also play a big part in the story.  But the heart of the story are the roles of men and women and the value of marriage.  And the stars are Remington and Antonia - with a terrific supporting cast including Antonia's \\"ladies\\" and Remington's uncle Paddington.<br />Read and enjoy!	2003-01-17
US	40354595	RC91TNVQRG5I9	0553565230	429048865	The Perfect Mistress	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another warm, witty romance from Betina Krahn	So far I've read four of Ms Krahn's books (The Husband Test, The Mermaid, The Last Bachelor and this one) and I loved them all and look forward to reading more. I love her style, her sense of humour and of the absurd. She creates great characters with fun and interesting stories to tell. This one centers on Victorian views on morality, the role of wives vs mistresses, and the politics of Conservatives vs Liberals.<br />Pierce St James has heard it all, but is still surprised when Gabrielle LeCoeur proposes that he pretend to be her lover. She wants him to pretend in order to keep her mother at bay so that Gabrielle can look for a husband! You see her mother is a famed courtesan who believes that true love and passion cannot be found in the drudgery of marriage. But Gabrielle does not want to be a mistress - she claims not to have the \\"juices\\" i.e. passionate nature necessary for such a life. She simply wants a respectable husband and a respectable life.<br />Pierce, who always appreciates the perverse and absurd, agrees to this little charade thinking eventually he will seduce Gabrielle anyway. Besides, he plans to use Gabrielle to his political advantage against Prime Minister Gladstone, whose interest in prostitutes is cause for speculation among the political opposition.<br />But neither plans on the friendship, camaraderie and sheer enjoyment they get from spending time together. Eventually Pierce proves to Gabrielle that she does, in fact, have the \\"juices\\", and when things get serious, they also get very complicated. As Pierce pulls away from Gabrielle, she turns to her \\"advisory committee\\" which includes his mother, her own and some of her mother's courtesan friends, to find a way to pull him back. When nothing seems to work and things go from bad to worse, Gabrielle reminds Pierce that they were friends first and that she will be either his mistress or his wife - he only needs to choose.<br />The only reason that I didn't give this five stars is that I thought Pierce took too long to come around and that he was a bit unreasonable, stubborn, and ultimately hypocritical - the thing he claims to despise most! But she calls him on it and he finally wonders why he has to choose at all.  Can't he have her as wife, mistress and friend?  A radical notion for Victorian England!<br />Great read. Ms. Krahn is an author I recommend you investigate!	2003-01-16
US	40354595	R1GN7MRE01QHCV	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	58	60	N	N	Page-turner crackling with sexual chemistry	I resisted this book for months because it seemed like it was everywhere - supermarket, bookstores and all over amazon.  I usually avoid things with mass appeal and, not having read anything from this author before, I was worried it would be in the vein of Stephanie Laurens (whose style I just don't care for).  But my trepidation was without merit - I really enjoyed this book!<br />I found this a story fast-paced, well developed and teeming with sexual tension from the first page!  Sir Ross Cannon, seemingly so cool and aloof, but smolderingly sexy just below the surface.   He's a good guy who works too hard and holds himself to impossibly high standards.  He is also very lonely.  Since his wife died five years ago he has immersed himself in his work as Chief Magistrate at Bow Street becoming one of the most powerful men in London.  But as they say \\"all work and no play . . .\\"<br />Enter Sophia Sydney.  Daughter of a viscount who's fallen on hard times she comes looking for a job.  But she has an ulterior motive - to seduce and disgrace the man known as the \\"monk of Bow Street\\" for the virutal death sentence he imposed on her brother years before.  She expects Sir Ross to be a portly old man but he is far from it.  So much the easier for the seducing - then again maybe not.  For she is as attracted to him as he is to her.  Could become a problem . . .<br />Well of course it does resulting in some really steamy encounters along the way.  And when Ross is wounded, her scheme is completely abandoned when she realizes that she wants nothing more than to care for him.  She's come to see what a kind, intelligent, well-intentioned man he is.<br />Ross knows that Sophia has secrets and he patiently waits for her to reveal them, but her last one is a whopper and it will threaten the very foundations of their relationship.  The road is not easy for these two, but time and again, they prove their love and respect for one another when the going gets tough.<br />Great secondarycharacters as well - Ross's grandfather (naughty old fella!), mother, his staff/friends (ooh Dr Lynley needs his own story!) and not least Nick Gentry the well written, multi-dimensional villain of the piece.  Read this when you've got lots of time, 'cause if you're like me you won't be able to put it down!	2003-01-10
US	40354595	R27CRUZXXE092Y	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Another wonderful and touching Foley read!	After meeting Billy Blade in \\"Lord of Ice\\", I was so looking forward to this book that I was a bit worried that it would not live up to my expectations.  I worried for nothing.  I loved this book.  As others have pointed out, contrary to the title, this is really Billy's story and if Billy doesn't touch your heart either you don't have one or it's made of stone!<br />After fleeing his abusive father at 13, Billy eventually winds up a gang leader in London's slums.  He may be a criminal, but he's got principles, taking responsibility for his people and also covertly assisting the government on occasion - that's how he knows Jacinda's spy brother Lucien.  And Lucien is the only person who knows his true identity - second son of the Marquess of Truro and St Austell!  That Lucien sure can keep secrets!<br />Lady Jacinda is the spoiled baby sister of the Knight clan.  Her protective older brothers are practically smothering her and when they arrange a marriage to Ian, Lord Griffith, it's more than she can bear.  Though she adores Ian, he's more like another brother to her and so she decides to flee to Paris.  At a coaching inn she's pickpocketed and pursues the thief into an alley - and into the middle of a turf battle between two of London's toughest gangs.  She is discovered by Billy and taken back to his headquarters refusing to tell him who she is or why she's out alone in the streets.<br />Over the next few hours they talk, with Jacinda sharing more than she intends about her hopes, plans and her infamous mother, while both notice a budding attraction. Jacinda is amazed to find that he actually listens to her - something no one else does.  I fell in love with Billy when he says to himself in astonishment \\"she likes me\\"!  How cute.  But when Billy discovers who she is, he returns her to her family much to her displeasure.<br />Events force Billy to reunite with his father and reclaim his title, Earl of Rackford, and so Billy and Jacinda meet again.  He pursues her, she tries to elude him for she has her own plans.  But a relationship develops and it's very sweet and fun to watch.  He evolves from street tough to gentleman while she matures after seeing Lizzie's heartbreak at the hands of her rogue brother Alec as well as learning more about Billy and his difficult past.  Their mutual affection and respect make you root for this great couple!<br />As always, I look forward to the next installment.  It's Lizzie's so we'll see if Alec can redeem himself!  And once again we are teased with mention of black sheep Jack whose story I am just dying for!  I love this family - reading these books is like spending time with old friends.  Keep 'em coming Gaelen!	2003-01-09
US	40354595	R2886X1QFGEH0Y	0515134155	176221499	Maid of Kilarney (Irish Eyes)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful story and endearing characters	Wonderful story of two people who thought that love was not meant for them.  John Black, Irish rebel soldier, has no real home.  He left behind his former life as a doctor when he was unable to save a woman he loved (but who married another) that began hemorraging in childbirth.  After Rhea's death, he swore never to practice again.  He's been fighting for years now, and on the advice of friends is taking a break to try and find some peace and quiet.  And so he finds himself in his childhood home of Killarney to stay with friends Niall and Cat Riordan.<br />But before he arrives there, he comes across a young girl who has been tossed into a pond by three young boys.  He saves her, takes her home and meets her mother.  Lily and her daughter are reluctant to have him in their home or to share any information with him about why this may have happened.  They seem to just want him to go on his way and leave them alone.  He does so and discovers from his friends that she and her daughter are thought of as witches due to the way they live alone in the woods and also because of Daphne's disfigured foot.<br />Lily was also in love once.  As a young woman she fell for a visiting Englishman who neglected to tell her he was already betrothed to another.  After he returned to England, Lily discovered she was pregnant and her family threw her out of her home.  She and Daphne have had just each other ever since, living in isolation in Whistler's Wood.<br />But John Black is about to change all that.  He refuses to stay away, offers to help correct Daphne's foot problem and generally offers these two lonely souls his support and friendship.  And they'll need it, for these are turbulent times with tensions heating up between Irish and English as well as Daphne's growing independence and need for more social contact other than just her mother.  John's steadfast support and Lily's appreciation of it slowly turn to affection and love.  But when Daphne's father returns, will everythingLily had worked so hard to build be destroyed?  <br />A really terrific story and great characters.  John was sweet and strong, Lily was strong yet vulnerable and Daphne, her preteen daughter is eternally optimistic and adorably wise beyond her years.  A highly recommended read!	2003-01-07
US	40354595	R3TKNEXPASL9OL	0515133396	373071700	My Lord Jack (Highland Fling Romance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting, unusual and poignant romance	What an interesting couple - he's an executioner; she's a refugee from the guillotine and revolutionary France.<br />Jack never intended to get involved with this woman or her problems but found himself speaking up for her when she is caught stealing a horse. Even worse, she is remanded to his custody for six months labor. Now he has to share his home and spend most everyday in her company. And this sentence also puts a crimp in Claudia's plans to find the father she never knew - a Scottish earl that may or may not know of her existence.<br />Claudia goes from pampered courtesan to working in a tavern. From fearing and loathing Jack and his profession to respecting and liking Jack the man. He surprises her in that he is actually very kind and gentle, an animal lover, a vegetarian and most unbelievably a virgin. He has vowed that he would never take a woman because of what happened to his mother - seduced and left to bear a child out of wedlock. But Claudia is quite a temptation for him.  She's beautiful and resilient and he finds himself wanting her badly.<br />Though she had been the mistress of a guillotined French aristocrat for seven years, she knows little of love and tenderness - especially not from a man. But Jack's kind and gentle nature and handsome looks attract her as her former lover never did.  They fall in love and then must face the villainous actions of Jack's half brother, his stepfather, not to mention Claudia's nefarious father. But love conquers all and Jack and Claudia are finally free to begin their lives anew. <br />A very sweet love story.	2003-01-06
US	40354595	R33B6CO23G2ZUB	0060508108	371901411	Duchess in Love	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Enjoyable and witty	Childhood friends forced into marriage way too young. A groom who flees the wedding within minutes of taking his vows and who winds up a sculptor in Greece. But far from hating him, Gina stays in touch with him, writing him letters that keep him abreast of events back home. And now she has asked him to come home and give her an annullment so that she can marry a Marquess, have a real marriage and family and move on with her life.<br />But when they meet again after 12 years, not only is their easy friendship renewed, but a strong attraction is begun. Cam is the opposite of Gina's fiancee. He's charming, carefree, informal, flouts convention and society's rules and he's also darkly handsome. Though he can be selfish and infuriating, he's also irresistable. Will Gina choose to go through with the annullment and marry her responsible, stable, starchy Marquess or will she stay married to her wayward, sometimes irresponsible husband?<br />While Cam and Gina are the central couple, this is also the story of three of her friends, also estranged from their husbands. Carola wants her's back, the little seen Helene does not and then there is Esme who is unwillingly attracted to Gina's upright, uptight fiancee. Esme is a tragic figure and my heart went out to her. She's a woman of her time, trapped in a marriage she doesn't want and attracted to a man she cannot and should not have. <br />By the end of the book, I was wondering if possibly Helene will be seen in a story of her own - maybe with Cam's cousin Stephen? They might make a nice couple :)!<br />A fun, enjoyable and recommended read.	2003-01-06
US	40354595	R2L7SFK4UZLVC2	0373834691	106832275	Caught In The Act (Men to Rescue)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	OK read - typical Foster fare	I think this may be my last Lori Foster book and my last contemporary for a while (I prefer historicals anyway).  After reading a couple, they all start to sound the same, indistinguishable one from another - except for the terrific Too Much Temptation which I thought was great.  Admittedly, I did not read any of the prior books containing any of the secondary characters - Angel & Dane, Alec & Celia, Zack and Josh - so to me they just seemed like a crowd of extras that were hard to keep straight.<br />As for the romance, well in typical Foster style, the couple, who know virtually nothing about each other, wind up in love and married within like a month of meeting!  This was sort of acceptable in the short stories of The Winston Brothers, but in every novel it borders on silly.  Though Mick was a nice guy, he didn't really do that much for me.  Nor was I particularly fond of Del.  Bottom line, I didn't care that much about this couple or their relationship - the kiss of death for a romance novel!<br />If you are a Foster fan, you will probably like this book.  If you are new to her, I recommend Too Much Temptation or The Winston Brothers instead.  As for my opening statement, I might have to reconsider if Joe Winston gets his own story.  He sounded intriguing.	2002-12-30
US	40354595	RM7JGWOD1GH4V	0451198735	659705854	The Irish Rogue (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Witty, well written and a fun romance	I very much enjoyed this story of reluctant romance.  Ailis O'Neill is a proud Irishwoman who thinks that Lord Clane is a snobby, dandified English Lord.  Since his recent arrival in Dublin, she has done nothing but be rude to him leaving him in no doubt of her opinion of him.  He's the exact opposite of her hero &quot;An Cu&quot; - &quot;The Hound&quot; - a Robin Hood-like highwayman that Ailis romanticizes as the ideal man.<br />Christor Moore, Earl of Clane cannot understand what he has done to elicit such a negative reaction from the very attractive and interesting Miss O'Neill.  But he is far from discouraged and looks for opportunities to spend time with her to try to win her over.  But he is also on a mission.  Someone is impersonating An Cu and Christor wants to know who and why.  How does he know?  Because Christor is the real An Cu and he suspects that the impostor could be Ailis' brother Eammon.<br />As Christor works to prove to Ailis that he's just as Irish as she is (he &quot;has the tongue&quot; - speaks Gaelic and plays the bodhran) she begins to see An Cu with Christor's features in her imaginings.  He is very handsome with his dark hair, sea-blue Irish eyes and broad shoulders.  How very vexing, since she does not want to like him!  And Christor finds himself ever more drawn to Ailis and her mahogony curls and warm amber eyes.  He also finds himself jealous of - himself!  Well, of her romantic notions about An Cu.  But this was not supposed to happen, neither had planned to fall in love!<br />Now, I'm no Gaelic scholar, but I would have thought that her name would have been pronounced A-leesh, not Ay-lish.  It was my understanding that an i with an accent over it (as in the second syllable of Ailis) was pronounced as a long e.  But I defer to the author since I understand her husband is Irish himself.  Just had to get that off my chest!<br />A fun couple, great story - a very enjoyable read!	2002-12-24
US	40354595	R1234JZZ5NJG6S	0515132756	828870951	Danger's Promise (Seduction Romance)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	4 1/2 stars - a really great hero!	I must say that I have been impressed with the Jove Seduction line of books that I've read so far.  Marliss Moon is a new author to look out for (another is Kathleen O'Reilly).<br />Christian De La Croix AKA The Slayer is a feared warlord who needs a wet nurse for his newborn son.  There are rampant, lurid rumours about his various violent misdeeds, the most recent being that he killed his wife in childbirth.  The servants in his own household are terrified of him so finding a wet nurse will prove difficult.<br />But stranger Clare Crucis (whose real name is Clarise DuBoise) volunteers for the job.  She has an ulterior motive - to get close to The Slayer in order to poison him or her evil stepfather will kill her mother and sisters.  But after only days in The Slayer's company, Clarise decides that the rumours about him are greatly exaggerated, that there is more to this man than his reputation and that she cannot kill him.  Though he has earned his reputation on the battlefield and is truly a man to be feared, Clarise sees in him a sadness, a longing and a kindness that she had not expected.  The more she learns about the circumstances of his birth, his childhood and his years training to be a warrior, she is struck by the conflicting influences in his life.  Clarise comes to care for Christian and his son Simon and now stuggles with how to save her mother and sisters.  After all her lies, can she ask Christian to help her?  And is there someone in Christian's household trying to kill Simon?<br />As Christian spends more time with Clarise, he begins to hope that she has been sent by God to help him change his life.  To help him to recapture the good in him that his mother instilled, but that his father tried to destroy.  He longs for a tender and fulfilling relationship with a woman instead of the cold, emptiness of his first marriage.  But how to make himself worthy of her?<br />I really enjoyed this story and found Christian an endearing and sexy hero; Clarise astrong, independent, if impulsive heroine.  A recommended read!	2002-12-19
US	40354595	R258UMHPIHJKA6	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A terrific, fun and very sexy read!	I had such fun reading this book!  Grace was so adorable!  She's the proverbial \\"everywoman\\".  Who hasn't felt insecure about their looks or fantasized about being with that one guy that you figure is just too perfect and unattainable?  And as another reviewer pointed out, because this is fiction, Grace gets her man.  And what a man!  Noah was so sexy, seemingly insatiable and just a bit dangerous.  I loved the scene where Noah tries to beat up a guy who hit on Grace with Grace hanging around his neck trying to stop him - only to have Grace end up punching the guy in the nose!  <br />Grace was so terrific.  She had a strength of character that was admirable.  Though there were plenty of times she could have cried or wallowed in self-pity, instead she was strong and resilient and I really respected her.  Noah was so protective of her it was really cute.  He acted like she would break, but time after time she proved how strong she was.  Her only weakness was Noah.  She was willing to take anything she could get from him and if that meant only sex, well that would be enough.  It does not occur to her to want or expect more.  But when Noah does, the hardest part is convincing Grace!<br />A really great couple and story.  Fun!	2002-12-16
US	40354595	R2W9Y0YM9UHVUK	0758200862	989218541	Never Too Much	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good, but Too Much Temptation was better	After meeting Ben in Too Much Temptation, I was looking forward to his story. He was so much fun! And, unfortunately, it is his fun-loving, mischievous nature that had me a bit disappointed in him.  I had thought he was smarter than he appears at the start of this book.  Ben's relentless pursuit of Sierra, regardless of her wants or needs, his treating her like she's some sort of game to him, made me dislike Ben for a time. Until her ex-husband shows up and Duh! he finally figures out that Sierra has real, grown-up problems and she (if not he) has been trying to act like an adult, trying to protect those she cares about from her powerful and nasty ex. But once he starts thinking with his brain instead of his you-know-what and his protective instincts kick in, Ben redeemed himself and I found myself liking him again.<br />But actually, the hotter (though mostly unseen) relationship is the one between Sierra's friend Kent and Ben's prim and proper mother, Brooke. Man, the heat those two generated - especially Kent's naughty mouth (the things he said to her!) you wanted to see more of them together.<br />And Ben finally resolves his rocky relationship with his difficult grandmother who was determined to make him accept that he is, indeed a part of her family.	2002-12-16
US	40354595	R3FSEKLJH114DT	0515132292	832702369	Wild	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not really so "Wild", but an OK read	In the interest of full disclosure, I'm not a big fan of contemporary romances (though I'm in a phase where I've read a couple) - historicals offer much more in the way of plot opportunities and I just prefer them.  However, I did very much enjoy \\"The Winston Brothers\\", the book of three short stories introducing these four charming, sweet and sexy brothers.  The short story format worked well for me in telling these pretty straightforward boy-meets-girl stories.  What I don't get is why the author thought that Zane's story merited a full novel.  There's not really much plot here and she should have made this a short story to add to the other three.<br />To start with, I found neither of these characters particularly \\"wild\\".  No one does anything particularly shocking or outrageous.  It's what I'm coming to see as standard Foster fare and if you like one of her stories, chances are you'll like them all (or hate them all as may be the case).  I'm currently reading \\"Never Too Much\\" and I'm coming to the conclusion that most of Foster's male characters are pretty much all the same guy - romeo with a heart of gold (not to mention washboard abs and a tight [behind]) that just needs to meet the right woman to settle down.  And the women (usually \\"cute\\" but not gorgeous) - either virgins or women who met the wrong guy the first time around who finally find love and sexual fulfillment with the nice guy hero.  Granted, I haven't read all of her books, but from what I have read, this seems to be the case.<br />I'm hoping that the guy to break the mold could be Joe Winston who is introduced in this book and who seems a bit more promising as a sort of obnoxious, maybe not always so nice guy who might be tamed by a wilder, more experienced woman (Luna?).  I'd like to see Foster try for a hero who's a bit darker, unsettling and a heroine who can stand up to him!  I guess we'll have to wait and see if Joe get's his own story, but given his introduction here, it seems likely he's next.  And I'll hope Ms Foster does him justice!<br />Anyway, if you like Lori Foster's style and characters and are looking for a light read, this book is probably for you.	2002-12-12
US	40354595	R35Z6LKG4DN189	0380812975	523208550	Untie My Heart	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Sultry, sexy, fun	This is my second Judith Ivory (my first was the terrific \\"The Proposition\\") and another enjoyable read.  <br />Stuart was dreamy!  Handsome, moody and slightly dark - maybe a little scary, but definitely desirable and a nice (sometimes odd) sense of humour.  He's trying to untangle his messy financial affairs since recently inheriting his title while also fighting with his uncle over possessions Stuart believes Leonard stole from the Yorkshire estate.  On top of all that, a local woman has been harassing him over a lamb she claims his carriage ran over and killed!  Why must things be so difficult?!<br />Emma was smart, independent, pretty in a sturdy kind of way, and very likable.  I loved her tenacity in pursuing justice for her dead lamb.  She certainly threw herself completely into everything she did and she refuses to let this lordly snob get away without paying for her loss.  She's no typical sheep farmer - she had another life years ago in London running con games with her recently deceased husband.  She's not afraid to take him on - viscount or not!<br />But when she can't get satisfaction through the courts, she reverts to her old ways and scams him for it.  Unfortunately, Stuart is not the easy mark she thought and she is caught by him.  To avoid prosecution, she reluctantly agrees to help him scam Leonard out of a statue and earrings he stole.<br />But as things progress toward London and the scam, Stuart discovers that he cannot stop thinking about Emma and he wants her badly.  Emma tries to resist, but eventually succumbs to his seduction.  She finds him a bit frightening.  He likes power and control - even in bed - and admits \\"I play. I have no shame.  Only imagination.\\"  Wow.  Emma's not sure what to make of all this, but she doesn't want to be just another quick tumble for him.  She knows there's no future for a sheep farmer and a viscount and tries desperately to protect her heart.<br />A fun read with some sweet and some very sexy moments.  Like others, I felt the scam was a bit too easily accomplished, but on the whole I really liked this book.	2002-12-09
US	40354595	R1PWZP1UVAMC5T	0553576178	377834776	The Mermaid	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A thoroughly enjoyable, fun read!	What a great book! This is my 2nd Betina Krahn book (first was the super \\"Husband Test\\") and she is quickly becoming a favourite! This Victorian battle of the sexes was such delicious fun!<br />Celeste Ashton has just published \\"The Secret Life of Dolphins\\" amid much fanfare, and controversy. The (all male) scientific community is torn between denouncing her outright (she's a woman for heaven's sake, not a trained scientist!) and a salacious curiousity to see this woman who claims to sail, swim with dolphins and who boldy writes about the mating habits of the creatures. The fact that the tabloid press has dubbed her \\"The Mermaid\\" has not helped her credibility in this regard.<br />Titus Thorne is a stuffy, pompous, repressed Professor of Ichthyology at Oxford who's made a name for himself by exposing quacks and charlatans. When Celeste is invited to speak to the Zoological and Oceanographic Societies, he is there to challenge her. She then challenges him to come to her seaside home and observe and verify her findings. He hesitates, but ultimately, reluctantly, agrees.<br />From the moment he arrives in Pevensey Bay, Titus's world is turned upside down.  Celeste's approach to her research is so foreign, unorthodox (and frightening) to him.  And her grandmother and her friends from the Atlantean Society surely must be quite mad!  And things are not going well for poor Celeste.  She knows full well that Titus thinks she is a fraud, her Nana is not helping matters with her talk of Atlantis, but worst of all she cannot seem to summon her dolphins!<br />Eventually the dolphins make their appearance, and Titus's world once more tilts.  The fascinating creatures, not to mention the equally fascinating and alluring Celeste, are beginning to have a strong, transforming affect on Titus.  And Celeste is equally smitten - he's so intelligent and handsome and so adorably, easily shocked.  Their romance progresses well until the Atlantean Society sticks it's nose in and unwittingly drives Titus away.  But back in London, Titus sees some of Celeste's dolphins looking sickly and mistreated.  What has happened?  How did they get there?  He must get to Celeste - together they must try to save them.<br />Great story!  Between the old Oxford Dons pushing Titus out of his comfort zone, the Atlantean Society's rituals, even the dolphins themselves, Titus and Celeste don't stand a chance.  They're meant to be!	2002-12-04
US	40354595	R2MWI27KF5FULQ	0380818078	940138604	When It's Perfect (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Perhaps not perfect, but a very enjoyable read!	I enjoyed this book a lot. Contrary to another reviewer, I think this book is much better than \\"Winter Garden\\" (one of the author's prior books). The lead characters are warmer, more engaging - less cool, aloof.  Granted, the mystery wasn't much, and I would have preferred a darker, more gothic atmosphere, but this book concentrates most on the relationship building between the two main characters. <br />Marcus Longfellow, Earl of Renn has come home from Egypt to discover his beloved younger sister Christine has died just months before her wedding. In her letters to Marcus she had confided to him that she \\"feared for her future\\", but was not specific as to why. Worried, he heads home but arrives too late. Christine's letters were also full of one Miss Mary Marsh who had been hired to work on Christine's wedding trousseau. She and Mary became friendly and the mischievous Christine engaged in some long distance matchmaking for her new friend and favourite brother. And so when Marcus decides to investigate Christine's death, he asks Mary to help him. He feels he knows her already from Christine's letters and that he can trust her to help him uncover the truth. Who better to know Christine's state of mind near the end than her new confidant?<br />Mary is from a good, but not aristocratic, family and is very conscious of her station in the Renn household - as a paid employee. Though she and Christine shared much, Mary held back much as well. Guilt, shame and heartache haunt Mary but she keeps all this to herself. As Mary and Marcus spend time together, they are drawn to each other, sweetly sharing bits of what Christine told each of them about the other. Their attraction grows and heats up, but Mary still holds some of herself back knowing that her past and lack of rank make any future between them impossible. But she obviously doesn't know Marcus as well as she thinks!<br />I adored Marcus! How another reviewer could call him \\"aggravating\\" is beyond me! He was handsome,funny, naughty, yet tough and determined as well. And I heartily enjoyed the easy friendship (not to mention the passion!) that they shared. They were a really sweet couple and in the end you (and they) see what Christine saw all along - they were perfect for each other.	2002-11-30
US	40354595	R21ECLBJ625YXF	0312977557	922797759	The Troublemaker	Books	4	2	2	N	N	4 1/2 Stars - great follow-up to "The Matchmaker"	The second book in the \\"Maker\\" series focuses on Sarah Palmer who we met as a precocious 12 year old in \\"The Matchmaker\\".  She is now a 21 year old ingenue who likes to push the envelope of what is proper for a Society miss.  Her latest adventure - a plan to elope with a fortune hunter - was thwarted by her brother and she has been sent to live with her older half-sister Olivia in Scotland to keep her out of trouble for a while.  But she arrives in sleepy Kelso only to discover that her sister's family has just left for Glasgow for a month.  Sarah decides she needs the solitude and stays at Byrde Manor, Olivia's inheritance from her father, Cameron Byrde.  Sarah is determined to prove to her family that she has forsaken her reckless ways for good!<br />Marshall MacDougal has come to Kelso, not to escape trouble, but to bring it!  With the recent death of his beloved mother, he discovers that his father did not die on a ship enroute to join his wife and son in America - he just never followed them.  He sets out for Scotland bent on revenge for the difficult life he and his mother were forced to lead due to his father's treachery.  Unfortunately, he discovers that his father has been dead for 20 years.  Still needing someone to vent his anger on, he discovers that Cameron Byrde had another wife and a daughter here while he and his mother struggled alone.  So he decides he will take the inheritance he should have had - Byrde Manor - from the half-sister he never knew he had.  There is only one problem.  He has no proof that his father actually married his mother, but he is determined to prove it if he has to visit every little kirk in Scotland!<br />Then he meets Sarah and things quickly spiral out of control.  He finds himself drawn to her and in a heated moment reveals his true purpose in Kelso.  She is determined to protect her mother and sister from him and his revenge.  But she is just as attracted to him.  What a mess!  But Sarah is determined to prove to her family and herself that she can be responsible.  But will she sacrifice herself to this dangerous stranger to save her sister's inheritance?<br />I liked the book and Sarah & Marsh were a tempestuous couple, but his anger was almost too much at times.  He was almost too cruel to her, though he always berated himself for his behaviour later.  He was just lucky that Sarah was an understanding woman who could see past his anger and see the honorable and loyal side of him.  To see that deep down, he was a good man - the right man for her!	2002-11-26
US	40354595	R1SKGEQVKBE3RC	0515132403	99179858	Touched by Fire (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Sweet love story and a most unique hero	\\"Blood will tell\\" that's what the old Earl of Haverwood repeatedly tells his heir. But Colin's blood comes from a highwayman father who raped the old Earl's wife resulting in Colin's birth. Though the old Earl publicly claims Colin as his son, privately he makes Colin's life a misery, tormenting the boy by constantly reminding him that he is his father's son - violent, worthless, vile, unfit for Society. He does such a number on the boy that Colin grows into an insecure, nervous young man uncomfortable everywhere - even in his own skin. He hides himself in the army but with Napoleon exiled to Elba, he has returned home to find the old Earl has died. In a parting shot, his will requires that Colin must marry before his 28th birthday if he wants to maintain his control of the St George orphanage. The thought of marriage scares Colin to death! He has never courted a woman.  He can't trust himself not to behave like his father - brutal, violent. But he refuses to give up the orphanage. The one good thing in his life. He decides to marry for convenience some woman he can ignore. Unfortunately, he meets Sarah and he cannot possibly ignore her!<br />Sarah  Banks has lived on the fringe of Society all her life. Her infamous father ran a gaming hell which she has inherited. She has been the target of cruel remarks and indecent proposals all her life and has done her best to ignore it. But when she meets Colin, she feels she has finally met the man who can protect her and make her feel safe. She pursues him relentlessly, but he is just as determined to avoid her. She makes him feel things he's never felt before. He certainly cannot marry her - he desires her too much and will only wind up hurting her. But he cannot deny his strong attraction to her and he fights it mightily. But when some tries to kill her, he changes his mind and decides to marry her if only to protect her. But Sarah is determined to woo him and make him her husband in more than name only. And a Banks neverloses!<br />I loved this book. Colin was such a different kind of hero. Almost child-like with his obsession with dragons and dragonslayers, he was the exact opposite of what he had been brainwashed to believe about himself. Sweet, kind, gentle, naive he's adorable! But don't get me wrong, he's not a wimp.  He's strong and capable of violence when those he loves are threatened.  And Sarah is proud, determined and single-minded. A great couple, great secondary characters (especially Colin's valet/mentor Giles) and a great book!	2002-11-24
US	40354595	R3RRFTO1EOK45D	0743442725	662355506	The Art of Seduction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I agree - a frustrating, yet funny, poignant, enjoyable read	I have to agree with another reviewer that this was a great but frustrating read.  For about the first half of this book I was having a great time watching the antics of Parris and Gwen vs Dominick and Jason.  Truly some laugh out loud moments!  Parris's niece Mary and nephew Phillip brought some nice comic moments as well.  And Dominick was devilishly charming as he schemes to make Parris his again.<br />There were some very sweet moments when Parris and Dominick reminisce about their growing up years, things they shared and did, that brings back to them how much they mean to each other.   How right for each other they always were and always will be.<br />But then things got serious and that's where things fell apart for this couple, and to a lesser extent, for me.  This couple needed to spend more time talking, communicating with each other.  Note to Dominick:  sex, even great sex, doesn't solve everything!  And, unfortunately, the author depends on the old overdone Big Misunderstanding to keep this couple apart.  I especially hate when the heroine believes the lies of the other woman competing with her for the hero's love.  Why would you believe someone who hates you over the man you love?<br />But I did like Parris and Dominick - a great couple.  And like others, I would have liked to see more of Gwen and Jason to see exactly how that rogue was tamed!  A fun, frustrating read!	2002-11-20
US	40354595	REZUBRB8I1HZ8	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Could have done without some of the more outlandish stuff	I'm torn between describing this book as a \\"bodice ripper\\" and considering it something deeper.  While I enjoyed the intensity of the sexual relationship between Kell and Raven, I found other aspects on the roll-your-eyes outlandish side:  aphrodisiacs, sexual fantasies acted out in a brothel, fantasy lovers and even her name all seemed a bit too wacky and 21st century to me.  The story was good enough without these silly plot devices but this being my first Nicole Jordan novel, I assume this is just her style.  If you enjoy those types of things, you'll probably enjoy this book.<br />Having said that, though, I did enjoy the relationship between Kell and Raven.  Kell Lasseter is summoned to his gaming hell one day to discover that his brother Sean has abducted Society beauty Raven Kendrick on her way to her wedding.  Sean wants revenge for Raven's rejection of him, but there is so much more to it.  Sean was seriously damaged by sexual abuse he suffered as a boy and he has never recovered.  In order to protect Sean from prosecution and Raven's reputation, Kell reluctantly offers to marry Raven and she, seeing no alternative, accepts.  But they both agree to a marriage of convenience and while they allow themselves sexual pleasure, neither wants to fall in love.  But ultimately, their attempts to wall themselves off from each other emotionally fail and both now worry for their hearts.  You find yourself hoping that they can finally trust each other with their true feelings, for both Raven and Kell are very lonely and they need each other's love and support to go on.<br />The darker aspects of Kell and Sean's past was very sad.  Though he did some terrible things, I still felt very sad for Sean and sympathetic to Kell's feelings of failure and helplessness in dealing with his disturbed brother.  Sean's actions posed a real challenge to this couple.  Can Raven forgive what Sean did to her?  And can Kell ever forgive himself for failing Sean - for ultimately choosing Raven over his brother?  Is there any chance their fragile relationship can survive all this tumult?<br />I suppose some of the more escapist aspects are meant to balance the darker side of this book, but I could have done without them.  I would probably read more by this author if I were in the mood for an outlandish read.	2002-11-18
US	40354595	R2ZS9XTLDWT52P	0312983115	378607803	The Bridemaker	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Intense and Passionate!	We first met Adrian Hawke as a brooding five year old boy in \\"The Matchmaker\\" and then as a moody, difficult adolescent in \\"The Troublemaker\\". Adrian is the bastard son of Lord Neville Hawke's deceased older brother and as a result has a hard time fitting into \\"proper\\" Society. Eventually embittered and disgusted, he leaves for America to seek his future and fortune where a man earns his way instead of inheriting it. He has returned to London to attend his cousin's wedding but also to flaunt his success and wealth in the faces of those who never accepted him before.<br />Hester Poitevant, dull, drab widow, has carved out a successful niche business of her own. She assists those young ladies of Society that need a little extra polish to find acceptable husbands in the Ton. She has been so successful, she has been dubbed \\"the Bridemaker\\". But Hester is full of secrets - she is not what she appears to be at all. When her favorite student falls for the scandalously inappropriate (as far as her family is concerned) Adrian Hawke, Hester steps in and asks him to back off. Their encounter shocks them both in it's intensity and ferocity - they argue and sparks definitely fly! But why was their encounter so heated? And why did he almost kiss her?<br />Deciding that Hester embodies everything that is wrong with Society he decides to expose her for the prissy snob he thinks she is. But when he runs into Hester in an unguarded moment, he sees that behind her drab widow facade is a beautiful young woman who would outshine her students. He becomes increasingly intrigued and vows to unravel all her secrets. Bit by bit he tears away at her facade (and at her will to resist him!) and discovers that he and Hester have more in common than anyone would think.<br />This story did have a few slow spots, but once the sparks began to fly between Adrian and Hester I couldn't put this book down! Their relationship is intensely passionate and enjoyable to watch. I enjoy Rexanne Becnel's writing style and would recommend this book highly!	2002-11-14
US	40354595	RVJCBL78VLSB3	0515134031	955999026	Wicked Lies (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Action, romance, mystery and refreshing setting	I was so thrilled that the setting for this book was Colonial Virginia - what a refreshing change!  Being from the Mid-Atlantic, early American history is all around us and having just recently visited Williamsburg I could picture much of the action - particularly the ball at the Governor's Palace.  Another keeper from Laura Renken!<br />One fateful night widowed Catherine Bellamy replaces her brother as a courier for the Sons of Liberty.  She is to meet the infamous Merlin, a smuggler and more in support of the Sons' cause.  Unfortunately for both, it is a set-up and they are captured by the British.  But plucky Catherine and determined Merlin escape and spend a week on the run together sharing a wary partnership and an unforgettable moment of passion.  <br />Two months later Catherine approaches the illusive brother-in-law she has never met to ask for his financial assistance to re-open her print shop.  He is Captain Julian Lambert, decorated officer in the Royal Navy.  He has returned to Virginia to discover the truth about how his half-brother died and is suspicious of Catherine (and her family - particularly her brother) since he never even knew that his brother had married. Catherine believes that Julian hired Merlin to find out who killed his brother and thinks to find Merlin again through Julian. But the investigation into Patrick's death evolves into something much bigger when it becomes clear that someone is committing serious crimes in the name of the Sons of Liberty.  Who is behind it all and why?  Who set them up?  Can Catherine and Julian come to trust one another?  Are they even on the same side?  They must hope so, because their attraction is undeniable and they're both falling fast. <br />I found Catherine and Julian an engaging couple torn between their attraction and their family loyalties. My only complaint is in a few loose ends that weren't resolved enough for me but these are minor and ultimately don't detract from a great love story.	2002-11-12
US	40354595	R1I2XQYF4F6CN9	0553583913	812154744	Castles in the Mist (Akora)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Josie's back on track - a romantic, intricate story	A nice end to this trilogy.  Josie had me worried with the second book in the series Kingdom of Moonlight which I found a serious disappointment.  But she's back in form with Castles in the Mist.  Atreus is a stalwart, duty-bound but lovable (and sexy!) hero; Brianna is an intelligent, freethinking and independent heroine.  No shrinking violet, she's more than a match for this man used to command though she does so in a calm and quiet manner.<br />Brianna is English by birth, but was shipwrecked on the shores of Akora then adopted and raised by a family there that she loves deeply.  But she also has fragments of memory of her parents and travels to England to pursue her past (and possibly her future).  She finds an endearing aunt and uncle only too willing to provide family support and entree into London Society.<br />Atreus is all Akoran.  He was selected Vanax (leader) of Akora and takes his responsibilities seriously.  During the ritual of selection, a vision of a woman appeared to him and he understands that this woman is to be his wife.  He finally discovers who she is, but within days she has left for England.  Impatient and a bit worried that she may not return, he follows her to England to pursue, woo and win her.  She succumbs to his charms, but is skeptical of his certainty of their shared destiny, and torn by the possibilities available to her should she decide to stay in England.<br />Ultimately, she agrees to return with him to Akora and think about his proposal.  But \\"what a tangled web we weave\\"!  Does Brianna sympathize with a rebel group on Akora opposed to Atreus' rule?  And what does Atreus know of the truth about the shipwreck that killed her parents?  Can their fragile relationship survive the truth?<br />If you are new to this trilogy, it starts with the wonderful Dream Island, followed by KOM and ending with CITM.  The next trilogy (coming Summer 2003) will be about the second generation of these Akoran/English unions.  I look forward to reading the further adventures of these families!	2002-11-06
US	40354595	R2AA4IKUKH0CV8	0515129844	282620589	My Lord Pirate (Seduction Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good start to (but not the best of) the trilogy	Talon Drake should be living comfortably as the Earl of Sunderland but the treachery of the Welles family has instead destroyed his life. His father hanged unjustly, his mother and sister brutally murdered and his family name disgraced leaving himself and his younger brother Marcus outlaws. They turn to a life of piracy to survive and seek revenge against the Welleses and the thoroughly despicable Harrison Kendrick.<br />Regan Welles is Harrison Kendrick's half sister. After a childhood accident leaves Regan with a badly broken leg that never healed properly resulting in a limp, she is sent to live in a convent on Martinique where her mother's brother is a priest. She is brought to Jamaica for the wedding of her cousin Arabella Welles to Kendrick. Meanwhile, Talon Drake is planning to abduct Arabella to use her to get a pardon from Kendrick. Predictably, he abducts the wrong woman - Regan.<br />Poor Talon! She makes his life a living hell from the moment she enters it. And herein lies my biggest problem with this story. Regan is the type of heroine that I find particularly tedious. While you can admire her courage and loyalty, she is also pathetically clinging to an idea of her family (particularly her half brother) that is a far cry from reality. I think my childish ideals would have been smashed once I realized that my \\"dear\\" half brother had been, unbeknownst to me, slowly addicting me to opium! There were so many times when she should have had her wake-up call but chose not to believe. After about the fifth or sixth failed attempt to thwart Talon I got tired of her. And when someone close to Talon is killed because of her, I about wrote her off and wanted Talon to as well. But she FINALLY sees the truth (almost too late) and redeems herself in the end.<br />MLP is the first in the trilogy followed by Night Shadow (which I'm reading now) and ending with my favourite Renken book \\"Heart of the Condor\\" (best of the series - I just adore it!). While I was exasperatedby Regan, I loved Talon and the story is well developed and action-packed. I recommend My Lord Pirate as a good start to an interesting trilogy.	2002-10-30
US	40354595	RKH0MCVDKC7W2	0804119562	267895434	Moonlit	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Passionate, poignant, romantic	Actually 4 1/2 stars but I'm rounding up based on Trevor alone!  I adored him - the height of arrogance, he's also dangerous, wild, darkly charming, extremely intelligent, brave and oozing sex appeal and passion.  He fairly leapt off the page for me.<br />Counter that with the cool, restrained passion of Nell - restrained until she meets Trevor, that is.  These two are perfect for each other.  Both have experienced deep unhappiness in their lives, and carry with them the scars to prove it - his visible, her's under the surface, but no less painful.  He tries to ignore and suppress his painful past, she is more likely to confront it.  Which makes for some difficulties in the relationship until they learn to truly trust one another.<br />I loved Trevor's character from his introduction in the wonderful Entwined and his outrageous flirting with Isobel.  He's one of those guys that you wish you could dislike, but you just can't help but fall for.  And so does Nell.  I found their romance and relationship believable, poignant and I cared what happened to them.<br />A nice end to an uneven trilogy.  Enwtined was wonderful - the best in the series and one of the best stories I've ever read!  Fallen was a dissappointment.  I wanted to adore Gabriel and Maggie, but they didn't particularly move me at all.  But with Moonlit, the author has bounced back.  Though not to the standard of Enwtined, it still was an entertaining, passionate and poignant read.  I look forward to Ms. Jensen's next effort.  She could continue with some of the secondary characters from these books for future stories.  How about Nathan's brother William or Maggie and Isobel's incorrigible sister Tessa?	2002-10-26
US	40354595	RJC5BDBQ4N89D	0804119554	900455028	Fallen	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Doesn't live up to it's potential or predecessor	I knew before I read this book that it would not compare with Entwined - one of my favourite books (wmr-uk, you were right!).  Entwined was full of passion and longing and determination and I adored both Nathan and Isobel.  Fallen seemed flat to me.  The romance between Gabriel and Maggie was so restrained and uneven.  While Gabriel was handsome and sexy and wry, and Maggie was beautiful and sweet and loyal, I wasn't passionate about either character - matter of fact, my favourite characters were Tessa and old Mr. Beaton!  But the identity of L'Eccossais did stump me. I thought it was someone else almost from the beginning - I won't spoil it for those who haven't read it.<br />I also felt that the ghost stories and especially the folk tales and \\"Scarbro Fair\\" quotes were a bit overdone and bordered on stereotypical - quaint little island folk!  I did however, like that the author uses the Gaelic and that this was a barrier for Gabriel because it truly would have been at the time.  I don't know much Gaelic, just a few words and phrases, but it was fun to see if I could figure out what was being said - usually not!<br />Anyway, I'd probably only give this book 3 1/2 stars but I'm rounding up rather than down.  While this is not a great book, it's still better than a lot of lesser romances and the author does know her stuff when it comes to Scotland, it's history and Highland as well as island culture.  And I'm still going to read Moonlit about St Wulfstan's adventures in romance (and Ireland) so we'll see how that one fares.	2002-10-22
US	40354595	R3NNZ4BXUI4AWH	0553583867	589314413	The Husband Test	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Uniquely entertaining!	What a terrific introduction to an author I'd never even heard of. I will definitely be checking out other stories by Ms Krahn.<br />Eloise is a novice with aspirations of one day becoming an abbess. But at the moment she is an annoying thorn in her abbess's side! She can't seem to mind her own business or stop trying to improve things, master new skills and generally challenging the status quo. When Peril, Earl of Whitmore comes seeking a bride, the abbess immediately realizes that there is more to him than he is letting on. He is obviously short of funds and seems less than enthusiastic about becoming a husband. She eavesdrops on him and discovers that he needs a bride to break a \\"curse\\" that has brought devastation to his lands. And so, rather than turn over one of her maidens to him, she sends him home with a \\"husband judge\\" to determine his suitability for marriage - her nemesis Eloise.<br />The trip is dreadful and does little to recommend Peril - everything goes wrong. And things go from bad to worse once they arrive at his home - it's filthy and neglected. Of course, this spurs Eloise into action and she is soon sticking her nose into all areas of his estate. Poor Peril is embarassed by the state of his hall and his lack of knowledge of running an estate. He'd been a soldier without a home until his father died two years ago and he returned home to claim the decrepit hall. He is in over his head but can't/won't admit it. He is humiliated that this little \\"nun\\" knows more about running his estate than he does, but he must submit to her authority if he wants a bride. Soon the place is starting to come together and the sparks that fly between Eloise and Peril turn into something warmer. Eloise decides that underneath all his bluster is a good and brave man who needs a wife to help him run his home and so she sends her recommendation to the abbess that he is indeed worthy of a wife. But she is shocked when she finds out who that wife will be! Whitmore is in forsome fireworks!<br />I couldn't give this book 5 stars because I couldn't get over what a jerk Peril became once he got married, making rash and stupid decisions rather than taking advice from his wife. But I guess it's tough for a man to realize that his wife is smarter than he is!  His character was a bit one-dimensional, but he really was gruffly sweet deep down and Eloise's determined dedication to save him and his estate proved that she had finally found the place where she belonged.	2002-10-17
US	40354595	R1XRVTQLF03NAE	0312976992	268267931	The Matchmaker	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Some of these reviews are bewildering!!!!	I'm reading some of the other reviews and wondering if they are talking about the same book I just finished reading!!!  And it's actually the love it or hate it aspect of those reviews that drove me to read this book in the first place.  I just had to read it for myself.<br />I liked this book a lot.  It's well written with some nice dialog and good descriptive text.  Like another reviewer, I'm giving it 5 stars to off-set the negative reviews that this book doesn't deserve (though my true rating would be 4).  First off, Olivia was neither a \\"cry baby\\" nor a \\"prude\\" as other reviewers stated.  She cried maybe once and she was no more a prude than any well-mannered lady of the gentry of her time.  She was cautious about men and didn't want to make the mistakes her mother made - multiple times!  Maybe to some she was overly cautious, but hey, she had to live with the guy, not me!<br />Second, I hate the characterization of Neville as a \\"drunk\\" (though I suppose technically it's true).  He used alcohol to deaden his pain and empty his mind of the memories from his war experiences.  He is never drunk during the day or around anyone else (except for the one incident at the inn).  And he doesn't insult Olivia, he teases her - and he could tease me anytime.  He sensed that underneath her stuffy, proper surface was a kindred spirit that he wanted to get to know.  I liked Neville and rooted for him to win Olivia over.  He was handsome, charming, funny and mischievous.  And when he finally figures out that he is in love with Olivia, he realizes he will have to change if he wants to win her.  She brought out the best in him.  Now Olivia was a bit uptight and she fought her attraction to Neville to the bitter end which may be why some found the book a bit too slow.  I will concede at times some exasperation with her and wondered once or twice why Neville bothered, but I also knew that they needed each other.  And hey, if I had a dime for every heroine in a romance novel that exasperated me, I'd be a millionaire!  Believe me, I've read books with far more annoying characters than any in this book.<br />So, if you're interested, give this book a chance.  Borrow it or buy it second hand if you're really on the fence.  Lots of us enjoyed it, so you may too.	2002-10-14
US	40354595	R259BQ8JSZKFGF	051512866X	477226687	Winter Garden	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Poignant love story, intriguing characters and yet . . .	I don't know why, but for some reason I am ambivalent about this book. I really enjoyed reading it, but I would likely never read it again (I'm a re-reader from way back) thus not a 5 star rating.<br />Thomas was so heartbreakingly sweet and vulnerable - yet not! He was also incredibly strong, determined and in command of every situation. Madeleine was supposed to be so worldly and cool - and yet not! Her uncertainty, almost shyness with Thomas at times was surprising. I guess that's what is so intriguing about this story. But don't expect much in the way of plot or secondary characters because they barely exist - or matter. The building relationship between Thomas and Madeleine is the focus of the book as it is for Thomas - the smuggling operation was just a convenient way to spend time wooing Madeleine. As I've seen from some reviews, this could pose a problem for some readers - I think one review said something like \\"400 pages of two people in a room talking\\" and that pretty much nails it. But I found the talking and interaction between them compelling, sensuous and bittersweet. I enjoyed watching this couple grow closer first sexually and then emotionally. It was a nice change of pace for the hero to be the one holding out for love instead of the heroine! And when Thomas comes clean about what's going on, how he's manipulated the situation for his own ends, I felt Maddie's shock, pain, anguish and she was totally justified. But I also understood Thomas's actions, motives and hopes.<br />This is what's called a character study and I found these characters interesting and enjoyable to read about.	2002-10-12
US	40354595	R1D72L3ICYC4W3	0515131733	800958503	The Winston Brothers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fun, Fun, Fun!	I'm not a huge fan of contemporary romance, prefering historicals, but this compilation of three short stories about handsome, sexy, and all-round nice guys the Winston Brothers was a really fun change of pace!<br />Cole and Sophie were so cute and sweet; Chase and Allison were so tempestuous and funny; Mack and Jessica were the unlikely but perfect fit.  I have to agree with another reviewer that Mack and Jessica's was the weakest of the three.  My favorite was Cole and Sophie's story.  Cole could pull me out of my shell anytime!<br />I think the short story format works well for these stories as I don't know that they would hold up to a full novel.  Fourth brother Zane's story is in a full novel - \\"Wild\\" - which I have not read (other than the excerpt at the back of the book).  I have my doubts about there being enough substance for a full novel, but who knows?  Don't know if I'll read that one, but these stories are fun and I anticipate re-reading them often.<br />Too bad more men can't be like these great guys - but then that's why they call it fiction!	2002-10-10
US	40354595	RSU3NYF2AS253	0345416597	832275502	Entwined	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Oh what a wonderful book!!	I don't know how I stumbled onto this book but I'm so glad I did!  After reading the reviews I just had to have it and I had to order it used since it's sadly out of print.  Though some liken it to &quot;Beauty and the Beast&quot; I could never think of Nathan as a beast!  I fell in love with him almost from the start.  He was incredible in his determination to rebuild his life after being wounded in Portugal.  He's learned how to do so much for himself again, but there are still some things he cannot do and he decides that Isobel will do those for him.  Her father had been Nathan's secretary, but when Isobel discovers he has stolen from the Marquis and tries to return the money, she is caught by Nathan and winds up taking her father's place as his secretary.  But that's not all Nathan has in mind!  When he proposes to her she is stunned!<br />But Nathan has &quot;seen&quot; Isobel's loyalty first hand - she is constantly trying to keep her wayward father and brothers out of trouble and loves them deeply no matter how obnoxious they are.  Though he has no illusions that she can love him (but he finds himself hoping!), he knows that he will have at least her loyalty.  And he will need it if he is to re-enter Society and his spy work for the government.<br />Isobel was so great - fiercely loyal, smart and selfconscious about her looks.  She's not afraid of Nathan and soon proves him correct in her loyalty to him.  I loved how his family took to her immediately, much to Nathan's surprise!  And the developing relationship between Nathan and Isobel is so sweet.  I could go on and on, but the bottom line is read this book!  Though the two other books in the series, &quot;Fallen&quot; and &quot;Moonlit&quot; have gotten mixed reviews, I find that I still want to read them for myself.  I know that they can't be as great as this one, but I'm willing to give them a chance.	2002-10-10
US	40354595	R31I6K1QZ9Q162	0446610526	128664589	The Legend	Books	5	14	18	N	N	For lovers of TRUE historical romance!	If you are expecting what, these days, passes for \\"historical\\" romance - dominated by love scenes, too contemporary dialog and a thin plot that barely resembles history - this book is not for you!!  Kathleen Givens takes the reader back in time to 17th century Scotland to the Jacobite war to keep William of Orange from usurping the throne from King James Stuart.  But don't get me wrong.  There is definitely romance - a beautiful, sweet, sensual romance between Highlander James MacCurrie and Lowlander Ellen Graham.<br />I won't go into plot, as the book description above is sufficient.  But do expect the romance to share almost equal time with the uncertainty and unrest in Scotland at this time in history.  But don't imply from this that this story is slow, bogged down in history or dull.  On the contrary, I found the book well written, fast-paced with a strong story.  It reminded me of the Jean Plaidy books I used to read as a very young history loving teenager.  And that's a compliment and a comparison I'd make with few authors today.<br />Jamie was adorably sweet, kind, caring, sexy and almost instantly smitten.  Ellen was smart, independent, loyal and genuinely unaware of her appeal until she meets Jamie and is also smitten!  There is none of the contrived BIG MISUNDERSTANDINGS that are so typical of lesser romance novels.  These people are honest with each other and very like real people and, as other reviews have pointed out, the obstacles that these two face are external socio-political events that they have no control over (like a war!).  There is also the conflict between Jamie and twin brother (and Laird) Neil over Ellen's presence and role in Jamie's life (Neil is jealous of Ellen's claim on Jamie's time and attention).<br />This book will be followed by a companion book - Neil's story due out 3/03 titled \\"The Destiny\\" - and from the excerpt it looks as good as this one.  I'm also hoping that there was a hint that cousin Duncan will also get his own story:) ?<br />If you love TRUE historical romance, this book is a great read!	2002-10-02
US	40354595	R3AWBS4NM779JI	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Terrific characters; sweet love story	A sweet couple that bring out the best in each other.  Edwina, so buttoned-up, self-conscious and chronically worried, needs some of Mick's fun loving, free spirited, spontaneous outlook on life.  Mick needs a bit of Edwina's self control, polish (both verbal and physical) and understanding of the behaviour and habits of the gentry he has heretofore only observed from the outside.  As another reviewer pointed out, it's a bit of a mix of \\"Cinderella\\" and \\"Pygmalion\\".<br />To his surprise Mick finds that his usual charm is apparently having little affect on Winnie (though it has a definite affect on the reader - he's adorable, sweet, sexy).  She's skittish, incredibly insecure and it takes all of Mick's patience and charm to slowly earn her trust and pull her out of her shell.  Winnie does not want to be pulled out of her shell, but she slowly begins to see that there is fun to be had out there and that she wants at least a small bit of it!  There were some terrrific scenes - when Mick negotiates with Winnie to look at her legs and when Mick takes Winnie into his world (a pub in the East End) where Winnie really lets her hair down!  But one complaint I have is that some scenes seemed to go on too long giving a dragging effect.  Some quibble with the oh-so-convenient ending, but hey, it's a spin on a fairy tale - why not have a happy ending!  An enjoyable read.	2002-09-28
US	40354595	R345WAW2P96Z52	0515133655	489968932	Tempting	Books	5	23	24	N	N	If you like conflicted, tortured heros, this is for you!	I had just finished reading Patricia Cabot's wonderful \\"Educating Caroline\\" when I began \\"Tempting\\" - another story about a self-made man from the slums of London. But whereas (Caroline's) Braden's poor upbringing helped to mold his character, Simon's has made him bitter, ruthless, ambitious. But in Simon's defense, he has a lot to be bitter about. He has never recovered from his inability to provide for his family after the death of his father or to protect his sister from being gang-raped before his eyes at the age of 15. When Simon's mother remarries and the family's fortunes improve slightly, he takes off, determined to no longer be that helpless, pathetic boy and sets about becoming a man and accumulating wealth.<br />Years later, now wealthy and hungry for political power, he has taken on the role of Vice Commissioner in Victoria's London. One night he raids a brothel and in the attic, finds a young girl locked in. For some reason, she affects him and rather than toss her in jail, takes her home then enrolls her in a finishing school in order to tranform her into a lady and better her lot in life.<br />Simon took some time to warm up to. He's cool, aloof, self-contained and alone. He is focused on running for a seat in Parliament and needs no distractions or scandal. But Christine's beauty and background threaten just that. The last thing he needs is for it to come out that the girl he is passing off as his cousin was found in a brothel! But Simon can't seem to do without her presence no matter how inapropriate. He needs and wants her around and pulls her out of finishing school to teach her himself (!). She's fresh, open, sweet and she makes him smile. Though he is attracted to her, there can be nothing between them. He needs a biddable, political wife not a free spirit like Christine, unashamed of her humble dairymaid background. And Christine has skeletons of her own and when her past comes back to haunt her, real trouble arises.<br />Simon was so conflicted and, deep down, so full of self-doubt, so unable to recognize his need for love and companionship that you just wanted to cry. And Christine was willing to give him all that he needed if only he would ask. If only he would accept her for herself - who she really is and not what he tries to turn her into. <br />A great read!	2002-09-25
US	40354595	R1FIY36NFM77QC	0743410262	327700345	Educating Caroline (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Wonderful! Delightful! Witty!  Jane Austen with sex!	What a terrific book!  I'd never read Ms Cabot before, but this book is certainly a great incentive to investigate her other books.  I simply adored it.  And eventhough it's a fairly long book for a romance at 400+ pages, it sure doesn't feel like it and I didn't want it to end!  But if you're expecting the typical first hot kiss by page 100; sex by page 150 you may be too impatient for this book.  You just need to go along for the ride on this one - and an ejoyable ride it is!<br />I won't go too much into the plot since the book description above tells you what you need to know.  But I will say that intially I was worried that the \\"heroine asks lothario to teach her about seduction\\" plot would be really hackneyed.  But to my very pleasant surprise, it was well played, witty, sexy and just plain fun.  I'm smiling now just remembering the first \\"lesson\\"!  Both Caroline and Braden learned a little something that day!<br />Braden Granville, nouveau riche gunsmith who worked his way out of the Seven Dials slums and Lady Caroline Linford, daughter of the Earl of Bartlett, have more in common than one would think.  For Caroline's father was the first Earl of Bartlett and was, like Braden, a self-made man.  Though the rest of Society looks down their noses at him (including his gold-digging fiancee) Caroline doesn't - party because of her father and partly because it simply is not in her nature.  She is genuine, sympathetic, warm and kind.  She's also fiery and passionate when it comes to causes near and dear to her heart (fools and animals!).  She's nothing like the other Society women Braden has romanced and she throws him off balance with her logic, her lack of artifice. He finds himself using the flimsiest of excuses to seek her out and though she knows she should run from him, she finds she doesn't want to!<br />I just loved this story, these characters.  Well written, fast paced, sparkling and witty dialog all combine to a book I highly recommend!	2002-09-23
US	40354595	R2PSNOVOOLUQ9I	0061087122	683956970	Master of Seduction (Sea Wolves Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Spunky heroine; sexy, charming hero!	I must say Kinley MacGregor is consistently a fun read.  The books are never too deep or too dark.  Just fun, fast stories that are enjoyable to read.  Don't look for perfect historical accuracy, and often the dialog is too contemporary, but these stories have lots of humor and action to keep things moving.  I've now read all of her books to date (up to Claiming the Highlander) and I haven't read a dud yet.<br />Lorelei was adventurous, fun and spunky; Jack, though a self-contained loner at heart, was sexy, funny and charming.  You understood Jack's desire for revenge once it was revealed - he was cruely mistreated in his early life and he needs someone to pay.  That someone is Lorelei's soon-to-be father-in-law.  <br />Lorelei's fiance' has decided to set a trap for infamous pirate Black Jack Rhys and he asks Lorelei to assist - a mistake!  The trap goes awry and Jack takes her hostage, sailing off with her in order to have his enemy follow to rescue her thus forcing a confrontation to get his revenge once and for all.<br />Predictably during the journey she sees that there is more to this pirate than meets the eye.  He's well read, well mannered, smart and even kind and compassionate in his own way.  Jack is attracted to this small, spunky woman.  He wants her in his bed, but much to Jack's disquiet, he also wants her out of it! He enjoys the verbal sparring that always seems to happen with her.  Though normally a loner, he finds himself seeking her out and enjoying her company.  But he doesn't want to feel anything for her and he doesn't want her to feel anything for him.  It can't lead to anything - they have no future together.  Of course she is determined to make him feel something!  Who will prevail?  Though we have a pretty good idea, it's fun to go along for the ride!	2002-09-19
US	40354595	R14I12FCE76ONZ	067173783X	366170390	The Lion's Lady	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A really unique spin on the regency romance	This is the first Julie Garwood book I've ever read (I just picked it up in the supermarket checkout line) and it was a very enjoyable read.  Both Christina and Lyon are likable, interesting characters and you know from the first that they belong together.  I liked the unique backstory of Christina being raised by Native Americans in the Black Hills.  That made for some interesting cultural clashes that were also often humorous.  You were frustated and confused right along with Lyon!  It also gave Christina some unique character traits for a romance heroine.  She was extremely self-sufficient, but was smart enough not to let it show too much - the warriors need to feel that they alone can protect their women, you know!<br />But I also have to agree with another reviewer that there were some inconsistencies and loose ends that were a bit annoying.  First, I thought the prologue would never end!  All that build up about her being accepted by her new Indian family was a bit tedious and then there is no substantive reference to them again except in explaining Christina's past or behaviour.  I also felt that both characters were a bit too emotional in anger.  He seems unable to control his temper where she is concerned (though he has been a spy for years and should be able to control his emotions better) and she matches him shout for shout, though it seems unlikely that such behaviour would be tolerated in an Indian wife - Christina says it herself at one point that &quot;wives should be submissive to their husbands&quot;.  Ha! - she rarely is!  And I never did get the whole &quot;Brisbane Affair&quot; but that wasn't central to the story so I'll let that go.  And how could her father have been so incredibly, murderously cruel and rotten and no one ever noticed?  Everyone thought he was such a nice guy!<br />But though I had some problems with the book, it is still well written, interesting, funny and eventhough they declare their love fairly early on, there is still sufficient plot to sustain the story.  I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to others.	2002-09-15
US	40354595	RAS4Q0P8FFGRB	0061087114	202371265	Pirate of Her Own, A	Books	4	12	12	N	N	An enjoyable read	Yet another fast, fun read from Kinley MacGregor.  I've read and enjoyed Master of Desire and Claiming the Highlander and now this one.  I still need to read Master of Seduction to complete all of her books to date (and I'm waiting impatiently for Born in Sin, the second in her Highlander series).<br />This is, I understand, the author's first book and I must say, it's not quite as good as some of her more recent efforts (LOVED Claiming the Highlander!), but it's still fun.<br />Morgan was such a nice guy that I had trouble buying that he had been the vicious, ruthless pirate known as the Marauder before changing his ways.  He was funny, warm, sweet and often frustrated and infuriated by Serenity and her wild ideas.  He is attracted to her but can't quite figure out why - she's not his type.  She's not a beauty, nor voluptuous, but still he is fascinated by her.  A dangerous proposition!<br />Serenity was really fun.  Here's a woman considered by most of her friends, neighbors and family to be an on the shelf spinster who is &quot;too old, too drab and far too opinionated&quot; to ever find a husband.  And Serenity, now in her mid-twenties, reluctantly accepts the reality and restrictions of the society she lives in.  She longs for adventure as a writer, but her father keeps trying to hold her back and tied to an editing desk.  But when Morgan seeks her out after one of her stories about the infamous Sea Wolf is actually published, she gets more adventure than she planned on!<br />This, along with most of the author's other books, has the main characters having to face consequences to their actions and the realization that romantic dreams rarely resemble reality.  An enjoyable and recommended read!	2002-09-11
US	40354595	RGIV6KC20J8AL	0449004252	199331886	Lord of Vengeance	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good first effort.	While I enjoyed this book and it's characters, I was left with the feeling that there was something missing.  Maybe it's because I had just finished reading Gaelen Foley's terrific Asencion trilogy - a tough act to follow - and maybe it suffered by comparison.<br />While I liked both Gunnar and Raina's characters and the story was well put together, it lacked some spark.  The romance seemed to develop too slowly (they don't share a real kiss until more than halfway through the book!) and then it seemed suddenly they were in love.  And though I loved the scenes where Gunnar and Raina flirt and move the romance forward, I found myself wanting to skim past scenes without them.  And for a guy who has worked so hard to feel no emotion whatsoever for the past 13 years, he seems to feel them for Raina immediately.  But I guess I quibble.  Overall it was an enjoyable read.  I reserve 5 stars for books that I adore and will read and re-read over again.  It's too soon to tell, but I'm not sure I'd read this one again, though I will read other books by this author.	2002-09-08
US	40354595	RTS4DHCTPCWOV	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Being royal ain't all that!	Having now read all of the books in the Ascencion trilogy, you come away with the feeling that being royal kinda sucks!  You get told what to do, when to do it, how to do it, forced into marriages you don't want and on top of all that there are the abduction and assasination attempts.  Sheesh!  Are the perks worth it?  That's what Rafe might wonder as he struggles to assert himself as Prince in the shadow of his larger than life father, the god-like King Lazar.  Rafe made a serious and careless mistake when he was 19 that haunts him to this day and makes him feel inadequate to succeed his father.  As a tender young lad, he made the mistake of falling for an older, treacherous woman who wound up betraying Ascencion to the French based on information she stole from Rafe.  Ascencion survived (thanks to the scrumptious Darius!) but Rafe has never lived it down or forgiven himself 10 years later.  Now no one takes him seriously, so why even try?  Poor baby - though a spoiled, self indulgent pleasure seeker, you just can't help but love Rafe!  He's sweet, good natured, easy going, funny and a lot smarter than people give him credit for.  You really root for him to finally grow up and get over himself and take control of his life.  <br />Lady Daniela Chiaramonte has lived a completely different kind of life.  The life of former aristocrats who have lost everything.  Her father ruined the family with drink and gambling after losing his wife in childbirth.  Now Dani must find some way to make ends meet, take care of Grandfather and pay the taxes.  So she becomes a highwayman robbing the rich carriages of the prince's idle, useless friends and sets about redistributing the wealth.  But one night, she robs the wrong coach - the Prince's - and narrowly escapes with her life.  But her friends are caught and she must try to rescue them.  She is caught in the attempt and is brought before the Prince who had met and attempted to seduce Lady Daniela before discovering that she is the infamous (and popular) Masked Rider.  He offers her a deal - marry him and she saves herself and her friends and helps the prince to improve his standing with the people of Ascencion.  Dani is stunned by the offer but has no choice but to accept.  Secretly, though, she is attracted to this golden prince who could have any woman in the world.  How can she, an unsophisticated tomboy hold onto a man like that?<br />From there, we deal with trust issues, court intrigue, blossoming romance, possible poisoning and Machiavellian plotting.  Can the fragile feelings building between Rafe and Dani survive it all?<br />I just adore all of Gaelen Foley's books.  Her characters are realistic, flawed, interesting and lovable.  I know some took issue with the parenting of Allegra and Lazar, but I think it was all the more realistic that they were not the perfect parents.  Royal parents rarely are as demonstrated regularly by the royal families of England, Monaco, etc!	2002-09-03
US	40354595	R3K20T12OCDRCH	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My favorite of the trilogy!  Oh, Darius, Darius, Darius!	Though I'm only halfway through Prince Charming, I think I can safely say that Princess is my favorite of this wonderful trilogy.  I've said it before - I don't think Gaelen Foley can write a bad book!<br />I absolutely, positively, unequivocally adored Darius!  He's the ultimate outsider looking in - if this book took place in the 50's he'd ride a motorcycle, carry a switchblade, wear a leather jacket and have his smokes rolled up in the sleeve of his white t-shirt!  God, he was sexy! And tortured.  And, sadly, seriously lacking in self-esteem.  His gritty, do anything to survive street urchin past life will not let go of him and he feels unworthy to act on his feelings for the Princesa he adores.  So he does the only thing he can and does his best to protect her from the evils of the world.  He is, afterall, King Lazar's most trusted man (sadly even more so than his own son and heir, Prince Rafael).  Though he was taken in by the royal family at the age of 14, he insisted on working his way through the ranks - ever loyal to the royal family, yet apart from them.  He adores Serafina quietly from afar, never acting on his attraction to her, though he knows how she feels about him.<br />Serafina has been in love with Darius all her life.  She threw herself at him and declared her love at her debut and he ran.  Though humiliated, she still adores him years later.  She is a spoiled princess and she knows it (though I swear, she is still very likeable!).  She also knows that most of the people around her only attend her because she is a princess.  They do not really care about her.  Only Darius is always there for her when it really matters.  He is always there to save her.  Is there any way that these two can live happily ever after?  Serafina does her best to make it so!<br />I must say, this book contains one of THE most romantic moments I have ever read: the note and gift that Darius leaves for Serafina when he goes off on his \\"mission\\" is so sweet and  so poignantthat I must confess, I sobbed out loud reading it.  What a sweet gesture of love and devotion!<br />Once I finish Prince Charming, I will have read all of Ms. Foley's books to-date (up through Lord of Ice) and I think I have given all of these books 5 stars.  She is an author with a proven track record and her books are a great read!	2002-09-02
US	40354595	R29PAJNCTQ6CSX	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The ultimate tortured hero!	I don't think Gaelen Foley can write a bad book!  I've read all of the Knight family stories so far (The Duke, Lord of Fire and Lord of Ice) and I adore them all.  So now I'm going back to the author's first trilogy about the Mediteranean island of Ascencion and the Di Fiori family.<br />All of Ms. Foley's heroes are tortured in some way, but I think Lazar has them all beat.  What a tragic life he has led!  But he's not been completely beaten down by it.  His response to all his loss is vendetta, revenge.  And so he returns to his island home where he was once crown prince to avenge the murder of his family 15 years ago.<br />The object of his revenge is Ottavio Monteverdi, who betrayed Lazar's father King Alphonse and was complicit in the murders.  Lazar plans to make Monteverdi watch while he murders his only child, Allegra.  Lazar kidnaps her and gets to know her a bit while they schlep across the island waiting for Lazar's men to attack.  Allegra is a reformer who, in contrast to her father, dreams of the restoration of the royal family through the legend of the lost prince - that he in fact survived and still lives and will someday come back to save Ascencion.  He admires her spirit and idealism, not to mention her beauty, and when the moment of truth comes, he cannot do it.  He cannot take her life, but he takes her hostage.  <br />When he tells her who he really is, she laughs.  She refuses to believe that this deadly pirate is the noble prince she has dreamed about (and is naively in love with).  If he were truly the prince, he would not leave his kingdom without a backward glance, would he?  Gradually, she begins to believe him and  badgers him about going back to Ascencion and reclaiming the throne; he just wants to forget that life and settle down on a farm or plantation and live a simple life.  Sometimes Allegra pushed him too far and I hated her for it.  She had no idea what she was putting him through and making him relive.  But in the end it was probably theraputic for Lazar to face his demons and finally put the past to rest.  He actually looks forward to returning to Ascencion and resuming his duty.  But what about Allegra?  You see, Lazar was betrothed to a Hapsburg princess when he was a boy and his country desperately needs her dowry.  So Allegra finally gets what she wants for Lazar and Ascencion, but does that mean she is left with nothing?<br />Now I have to read Princess and Prince Charming about the next generation of Di Fiori royals.  Hope they can follow this one!	2002-08-28
US	40354595	R25HPR1WWQHTKZ	051512883X	494543365	My Dark Prince	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Too well written to be considered "just a romance novel"	OK, I've read the reviews and they are definitely mixed.  Here's the thing:  Julia Ross's books should not be considered \\"romance\\" novels in the 20th or 21st century sense.  They are much more in the tradition of 19th century romantic novels.  Much more akin to the Bronte sisters and others of their ilk - stories like \\"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\\", \\"Jane Eyre\\" (my favorite book of all time) or maybe Trollope's \\"The Way we Live Now\\" or Richardson's \\"Clarissa Harlow\\".  If you are looking for an easy read, a typical or lighthearted romance ala Lindsey, Coulter, Laurens, etc., Ms Ross's books may not be for you.  It can be difficult to adjust to the cadence and language the author uses (I usually struggle a bit with the first chapter or two), but once you do, it is definitely worth it!<br />The Dark Prince, Grand Duke Nicholas is truly quite dark.  There were times I hated him; then there were times I adored him.  Was he Machiavellian manipulator or tortured, but sweet soul trying to do the right thing?  This book was an emotional rollercoaster for me wondering when Nicholas was being sincere and when he was being calculating.<br />Penny was the stalwart, straightforward English girl who dared to talk to this prince as no one ever had.  She even dared to touch the \\"sacred person\\"!  She is bound and determined to bring out the goodness and light in him - to salvage the small, kind, happy boy he had been before he was ripped from his home in the English countryside and taken to the Alpine kingdom of Glarien where he learned about royalty, cruelty, deviancy, manipulation and survival.<br />His cousin Carl Zanich is the evil presence in the book.  And he is evil.  He revels in humiliation, domination and mind games and he wants the crown.  Nicholas must do what ever it takes to ensure that that does not happen - Glarien would be lost in Carl's hands.  That's where Penny comes in.  Her resemblance to Nicholas's fiance the Princess Sophia has brought her into the royal sphere.  She must impersonate the Princess (who has been kidnapped by Carl) at the wedding, speaking Sophia's vows in order to ensure Nicholas' crown and that Glarien is not swallowed up by the other European powers after Napoleon's defeat.<br />Penny and Nicholas play their parts, but what happens when feelings get mixed up in the fantasy they are acting out?  Will they be the same once the pretense is ended or irrevocably changed?<br />I loved this book.  A classic.	2002-08-24
US	40354595	R3SV5TJ0ZERWQO	0312975678	8316662	Marrying Jezebel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun, witty and romantic adventure!	As a history nut and someone fascinated by archeology and ancient Egypt, I thoroughly enjoyed this adventure with Rafe and Jezebel!  It was fast, fun, funny and also heartbreaking.  <br />As the guardian of Jezebel Montclair, Raphael Sunderland, Duke of Ravenhurst can't believe his rotten luck.  Who in their right mind would make him ward to a girl he's never met?  Seems a brief acquaintance with her uncle years ago, and a long forgotten pledge to look after his affairs has gotten him into this mess.  The only thing to do is to marry the girl off as soon as possible.  But first he has to find her - the ship she was supposed to be on from Cairo has arrived, but she was not on it!  And so, the Duke of Ravenhurst who has never left English soil in his life finds himself in Cairo!<br />Thinking something terrible may have happened to his young, defenseless ward, he is shocked to see her in men's clothing, working with other archeologists and doing quite well on her own, thank you very much!  She has no intention of returning to London with Rafe.  She needs to stay in Egypt to prove that her uncle was onto something - a radical new theory for which he was roundly mocked by his colleagues.  But Rafe is just as insistent and she leads him on the proverbial &quot;merry chase&quot; through Giza, the Valley of the Kings and Abu Simbel.  During their travels they fall for one another, but Rafe is bound by his duty as her guardian and tries (in vain) to keep his hands off her.  She doesn't like the way Rafe makes her lose control when he is near.  They crave each other like forbidden fruit.<br />By the time Rafe finally gets Jezebel to London, they are both hopelessly in love but fighting it.  It's now up to the mischievous Lady Allison Mayhew and Lord Damien Marksley to pull a few underhanded stunts to get these two to see reason!<br />My only complaint with the book is that often, in the middle of conversation, there are paragraphs of background or descriptive text that really makes you lose the train of thought that the dialog was on.  I found I had to go back and reread the dialog to remember where it left off.  And the book did drag just a bit at the end.  But on the whole I enjoyed this book a lot.  If you're into British Colonial Egypt and archeology you might also want to try Anne Rice's &quot;The Mummy or Ramses the Damned&quot;.  It's a great story as well with a little romance thrown in.	2002-08-19
US	40354595	R2TBKQ0L5D843Z	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great beginning to a promising series!	Stuffy, proper, powerful and lonely Robert Knight, Duke of Hawkscliffe walks into new world the night he meets Belinda Hamilton the newest rising star in the courtesan orbit.  Ordinarily, Robert wouldn't be caught dead in such disreputable company, but he is on a mission to avenge the death of a lady he adored, but never touched as she was another man's wife.  He plans to use Bel Hamilton to get at Dolph Breckingridge - the man he thinks is responsible for Lucy's death.<br />Nor would Bel, under normal circumstances, be in such company let alone be a courtesan.  She is a gently born young lady who, unfortunately caught the eye of Dolph but refused him.  He becomes obsessed with her to the point of ruining her life, foolishly thinking she will come crawling to him for help.  He has her father thrown into debtors prison, he has her fired from her job at a young ladies academy.  Bel still refuses Dolph even to the point of selling oranges on the street.  She is in dire straits when the utimate horror befalls her.  Determined to pull herself and her life together she decides that the life of a courtesan could be profitable - especially since she now has nothing else to lose.  She could get lucky and choose a protector who will be kind to her and look out for her.<br />And so she meets Hawkscliffe.  He wins a kiss from her in a card game and there is an immediate, electric connection.  She could not hope for a better protector.  His reputation is sterling and when he asks her to help him trap Dolph by pretending to be his mistress it's even better - she can get her revenge and won't have to share his bed.<br />But they are drawn to each other almost immediately and ultimately cannot keep their hands off each other.  Love and trust follow, but what kind of future can the sainted \\"Paragon Duke\\" and scandalous \\"La Belle Hamilton\\" have?<br />Bel displays such inner strength and at the same time vulnerability you want to cry!  When she tells Robert that \\"everyone fails her\\" you just tear up.  But this woman had more strength of will and character than Robert and her father combined.  A true survivor who finds her prince charming.<br />A wonderful read.  I really crave a book about black sheep Lord Jack!  He sounds soooo intriguing.   Loved Damien and Lucien's stories and am eagerly awaiting Jacinda's adventures into Society.  Gaelen Foley is a must-read!	2002-08-14
US	40354595	R2OOPOH5GYMBAM	0515130990	612858686	Beyond Innocence	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A lovely, unconventional story	Edward Burbrooke, Earl of Greystowe has a problem.  His younger brother and best friend Freddie has been caught (again) in a compromising situation with a servant - a male servant.  In order to derail any scandal, Edward decides that Freddie must marry and quickly.  Enter Florence Fairleigh, a country girl and daughter of a vicar who has recently passed away.  Florence's financial situation is not good and so she seeks help from her father's old friend and solicitor to find a fairly well off husband.  Coincidentally he is also the Earl of Greystowe's solicitor and he brings Florence into the world of the Burbrookes under the guise of Edward's Aunt Hypatia's sponsoring Florence's entry into Society.  But she is quickly engineered into a relationship with Freddie.  While she and Freddie are fond of each other, something is missing.  Unfortunately, it is Edward who makes her heart flutter, her palms sweat, her blushes appear.  And Edward is no less affected by Florence.  Secretly he wants Florence for himself, but she is intended for Freddie - she's his salvation.  What to do?<br />I thought this a well written, well paced book and Freddie's sexual orientation was handled with care and sensitivity.  Florence and Edward were an engaging if conflicted couple.  I liked this book a lot, but I enjoyed the author's next book, Beyond Seduction (about Merry Vance who had a severe crush on Edward) even better!  An enjoyable read!	2002-08-12
US	40354595	R6DM7OBS8J0Q5	0821773984	135117319	No Surrender (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	OK, but I would prefer more emotional depth	She is Lady Nicola, a beautiful, wealthy, landed lady trapped in marriage to a dissolute monster.  He is Fawkes de Cressy a lowly squire in her husband's employ.  At her husband's command, she and Fawkes are to sleep together in order to beget the heir her husband cannot.  So begins this tale of sex, betrayal and love.<br />Love?  Personally I saw little evidence of love between these two characters unless you equate love with sex.  After spending two hours in a dark room having sex, he decides he is in love with her (!) and spends the next three years on crusade completely celibate for her and planning to rescue the lady from her husband when he gets home.  He's built her up to be some sort of paragon or goddess and is bound to be disappointed.  And he is.  When he returns to rescue her, he is betrayed by her as she has warned her husband that he is coming.  What Fawkes doesn't know is that she is trying to protect someone and will scheme and plot no end to protect this person.  But Fawkes prevails, they marry and it is nothing like he has dream about for three long years.  There is so much tension, so many lies, so much distrust between them and all can be laid at Nicola's door.  Her scheming is endless and rarely works out the way she hopes.  She seems to just make things worse and worse to the point that Fawkes finally will trust not a word she says.  Very sad since he has loved her from the beginning (or at least he thought he did).  I felt so sorry for Fawkes.  He was a good, kind man mistreated by a woman who refused to trust him - though you can cut her some slack since her first husband was such a pig.<br />This would have been a much better book if there had been any non-sexual relationship between these two characters.  You'd think given the way they started out and that they haven't seen each other in three years, that they would spend some time trying get to know each other.  But they have very litte conversation with each other and spend little time together.  Instead they are immediately estranged and are only brought together in the end when a tragedy nearly takes one of them.  But again, I was so disappointed that they are brought back together by sex - not by honesty, words of love or affection.  What a let down.<br />If you are simply looking for an erotic story, I suppose this book will suit.  But if you want more emotional depth and feeling between the couple this falls short.  Emma Holly blends the erotic and emotional much better (see Beyond Seduction/Innocence).	2002-08-07
US	40354595	RJ698C5JUC1IX	0380817896	542474557	Claiming the Highlander (The MacAllisters)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A fun, sweet, funny read.	I'd really give this 4 1/2 stars.  Kinley McGregor's books are always fast-paced, funny, and enjoyable to read.  No exception here.  With a similar (but better developed) story to Quinn's &quot;Romancing Mr Bridgerton&quot;, it's the story of the plain jane (Maggie) who has loved the handsome charmer (Braden) all her life but has never been noticed by him.  Until now.  Events throw these two together and both are forced to see the other in a new light - with the help of the darkly charming and sarcastic Sin.  I'm sure he will be the subject of the next book and I look forward to it - he's yummy!  And I hope that by the time Lochlan gets his story he will be a stronger laird!  How could he lose control of his clan so easily?  But I digress.<br />Braden and Maggie are fun and likable.  He happily flirts with and charms every woman he meets never interested in anything long term.  He has seen that love can hurt and destroy as evidenced by two of his brothers fighting over a woman with tragic consequences.  He also vows never to take a wife after seeing his mother's rejection of his half brother Sin as a child.<br />Maggie has worshipped Braden since she was a child.  He seemed to always come to her rescue and has always been kind to her but never saw her as anything more than his best friend's kid sister.  But now she is a woman and has taken action that causes Braden to see her as such.  She is no longer the gangly young girl - she has developed a uniquely earthy beauty that Braden notices for the first time.  He is attracted to her, but this is Maggie - a woman he likes and respects - surely had cannot desire her too!  It unnerves him for he can't fall in love - and certainly not with someone he cares about - can he?  And Sin challenges Maggie to see past Braden's looks and reputation.  Does she truly love the man underneath or does she simply want his attentions just as all the other women do?  <br />Two sweet people who belong together.  I enjoyed this book and look forward to the rest of the series.	2002-08-05
US	40354595	R7XDNA1L8V7EP	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Sensual with substance!	Never having read Emma Holly before I was a bit wary of this book.  I didn't want to read about nothing but endless meaningless sexual encounters and hoped there would be more story to it than that.  Wow, was there ever!  I was surprised at the character development and depth of story.  Merry and Nic were both complex, compelling, likeable characters.  You cared what happened to them.  <br />Both Merry and Nic have secrets.  But while they are together, it seems nothing else matters.  Society's rules don't apply.  Merry, the unconventional, independent, open-minded and utterly unfashionable daughter of a Duke is trying to avoid marriage long enough to receive her inheritance and live on her own. But her mother is being blackmailed into marrying Merry to the son of a former lover.  To avoid her fate, Merry poses as a servant in need of a job and agrees to sit for infamous painter and rake Nicolas Craven in order to ruin her reputation so that she won't have to marry.  Nic turned his back on Society and his past long ago to live his own unconventional, wild life as an artist.   But he is racked with guilt and depression over events from his past and an underlying dissatisfaction with his current life.  But the minute Merry enters his life, he is attracted to her vibrancy, independence and courage.  Obviously, sparks fly and over the course of the painting, the two fall for each other.<br />But once the painting is finished and the day of reckoning when the painting is to be unveiled approaches Merry must truly face the consquences of her actions and how they will affect not just herself, but her family, friends and Nic as well.  Nic has his own day of reckoning when his past finally catches up with him, causing him to reexamine his life, his responsibilities, his feelings for Merry and his future.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  Yes, the sex scenes are a bit more than the typical romance, but nothing that caused me to get creeped out.  There was plenty of emotion toensure that the sexual relationship was not empty and cheap.  The pace is fast and I didn't want the story to end.  A great read.	2002-08-05
US	40354595	RHWTNZVFXTKCN	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	9	11	N	N	This book was 200 pages too long!!	I was pretty hard on the sister book \\"On a Wild Night\\" when I reviewed it but I was determined to keep an open mind about this one.  As with \\"On a Wild Night\\" the book starts out promisingly enough, but it doesn't last.  And it is a shame.  Amelia and Luc are appealing characters, but there is no story here.  And who cares who the klepto is that keeps stealing stuff from all the house parties?  There is just not enough story here.<br />The thing that annoyed me most was that this couple seemed obsessed with who was \\"in control\\" of the relationship.  How pathetic to feel the need to be so calculating and manipulative in a relationship with someone you supposedly care about.  If I had to read one more line about who \\"held the reigns\\" in the relationship I'd scream!  I kept asking myself what the point of this book was.  These two seemed to be pretty much in love with each other from the first chapter but we have to plow through 300 more pages before they finally admit it. Why? What's the point?<br />I got so bored that I put this book down three separate times and read three other books in between before I forced myself to finish this one.  Three FAR SUPERIOR books:  Heart of the Condor by Laura Renken (excellent!), The Seduction by Julia Ross (beautiful!) and Master of Seduction by Kinley McGregor (fun!).  <br />Do yourself a favor - read one (or all!) of these other books and skip this one!	2002-08-01
US	40354595	R1MH5XXKRHYSDP	0425184692	235273732	The Seduction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A truly beautiful book!	Wow!  I loved this book!  For some reason... I was so emotionally moved by this book and these characers that I wept several times reading it.  The empty lives that Alden and Juliet are leading are heartbreaking - especially after they meet and start to realize just how empty their lives are!<br />We watch them enjoy their time together, both knowing and accepting that it will come to an end, with bittersweet pleasure but also with foreboding.  For there is evil afoot and these two people are unknowingly being ruthlessly manipulated by Lord Edward Vane.  Poor Juliet is being manipulated on several fronts and it breaks your heart - she's been through so much already and yet displayed such courage and dignity!  It was mostly Juliet's vulnerability that had me in sympathetic tears.  She's a strong woman who has turned her back on Society, living quietly in the country until Alden enters her life reminding her of what she has given up and shattering her well-ordered isolation.<br />The only thing that I didn't like about the book was the foppery of Alden's clothing.  All those detailed descriptions of his silks, ribbons, lace and patches kind of grossed me out, but I suppose that was the fashion of the time.  I liked Alden's character - the quintessential rake.  He brings humor, extravagance, wit and intelligence back into Juliet's austere, lonely life.  Though she wants these things and Alden, dare she let down her guard and enjoy what he offers, if only for a short time?<br />If you are looking for a lighthearted romantic romp, a steamy bodice ripper or a formulaic romance, this book is not for you.  It is complex, deep, compelling.  An emotional investment.<br />I'm really looking forward to reading the author's prior book \\"My Dark Prince\\" next.  It's gotten mixed reviews, but I think I'm going to like it.	2002-07-31
US	40354595	R1FB5R1KEJZDTH	0515133353	806665087	Heart of the Condor (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	I ABSOLUTELY ADORED THIS BOOK !	As seems to always happen with me, I read the last of the trilogy first!  I had never read any of Laura Renken's other books, but I will now!  And it probably helps to read the first two books first (My Lord Pirate and Night Shadow) because there is a lot of history between the Drakes and the Espinosas (though it's not a necessity to follow the story).<br />I have never come across a couple that so belonged together and yet faced so many obstacles!  I really wondered how these two wonderful people could possibly be together in the end.  Don Gabriel Espinosa y Ramirez, hero of Spain and pirate hunter stumbles onto a kidnapping attempt of Lady Sarah Drake from the convent on Martinique where she has lived for the past 11 years.  In the process he is injured and is taken into the convent and sheltered there from the French authorities.  Given their family history, neither trusts the other but they are undeniably drawn to each other.  When a second attempt is made to abduct Sarah, Fr Henri decides that Gabriel must wed Sarah and take her away for her own safety.  Reluctantly they are wed.  Gabriel plans to annul the marriage and return Sarah to her brothers as he has problems of his own.  He is supposed to be on his way to Spain to face a military tribunal after being accused of sedition.  But that will have to wait until Sarah's brothers can be found.<br />The more time Gabriel spends with Sarah, the more attracted he becomes and vice-versa.  Somehow the annulment papers remain sitting in his desk drawer.  His family and friends are appalled that he has married her (even temporarily) - an Inglesa and the sister of notorious English pirates.  Gabriel flirts with the idea of staying married to Sarah, but knows that he does so at the risk of his career and the future of his young daughter.<br />What neither knows is that Sarah is the sole witness to a crime committed years ago that the perpetrator wants to ensure remains unsolved, but if solved could restore her family'sfortune.  See her brothers are only pirates due to the fact that their lands and titles were stripped from them unjustly and Sarah could be the key to their reversal of fortune.<br />But what matters here is the relationship between Sarah and Gabriel.  It's sweet and bittersweet with both showing humor and courage and faith in each other despite what their respective families think.  You'll laugh and you'll definitely cry so keep the kleenex close by.<br />I LOVED THIS BOOK.  A DEFINITE KEEPER AND ONE TO RE-READ OVER AND OVER AGAIN!!	2002-07-26
US	40354595	R8SN3QMV2S50S	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Just a really fun book!	I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.  One of the other reviewers likened it to Woodiwiss's &quot;The Wolf and the Dove&quot; and it is kind of a light-hearted spin on the same story.  The tortured hero who needs no one, keeps everyone at a distance and the flirty, vivacious heroine determined to reach his mind and his heart.  (Though both books are 5 star, I consider &quot;The Wolf and the Dove&quot; the better book.)<br />Another reviewer said &quot;Emily cracked me up&quot; and that is the gist of the book.  She is utterly tireless (and hysterical) in her efforts to get Draven to smile, laugh and in any form pay attention to her.  And he is entirely frustrated in his attempts to ignore her.  She is completely un-ignorable!  And she has help.  Draven's efforts to say away from her are constantly thwarted by his brother Simon and Emily's maid Alys who are on Emily's side in her quest to have Draven for husband.<br />The book is fast paced, fun - an easy and enjoyable read!	2002-07-22
US	40354595	R22155G0TFHP31	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Delightful!  More like 4 1/2 stars!	This is my first Julia Quinn book and it won't be my last.  I really enjoyed this book.  Colin and Penelope were endearing characters - friends that turn into lovers.  <br />Poor Penelope has been the ultimate wallflower for the past ten years.  Her coming out was a disaster and things haven't gotten much better since.  Now she's 28 and an &quot;on the shelf spinster&quot;.  She is reacquainted with Colin, the brother of her best friend and the man she has carried a torch for since she was 16.  She quietly adores him while outwardly carrying on a lighthearted friendship with him.  She is realistic enough to accept that there will never be anything else between them.  For Colin is &quot;the most charming man in London&quot;, not to mention handsome, funny and just plain nice.  As she spends more time with Colin, she is surprised to discover that he feels adrift with no real purpose in life.  He wants to be thought of as something more than just &quot;charming&quot;. <br />Colin starts to see something in Penelope that he never recognized before.  The more he is around her, the more he is surprised by her.  She actually berates him for feeling sorry for himself and tells him to stop complaining and do something to change his life.  She's smart, funny, independent, and no longer the frumpy, clumsy, utterly forgettable girl she used to be.  OK, she is still a little clumsy, but now she's a self-posessed woman who is not afraid to speak her mind.  And, Colin discovers much to his alarm, she's not so forgettable.  He finds himself attracted to her, not just mentally but physically!  Wow!<br />I liked that the romance was pretty realistic given who these two people were.  My only quibble is with Penelope's stubborn actions toward the end of the book.  Why mess with a good thing?  But all in all this was a fun, witty enjoyable read.	2002-07-13
US	40354595	R74FF3QO1DO7H	0380818043	90358606	After the Abduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 3)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Witty, Sexy, Fun!	A CRACKING GOOD READ! I really enjoyed this book!  I can't top Desmond Chan's review - it says it all.  All I can say is that when I start talking back (out loud!)to the characters and giggling and laughing out loud, and chewing on my finger and curling my toes, that sounds like a great book to me!<br />The sexual chemistry between Sebastian and Juliet was incredible!  The dialogue between them is witty, sensual and intelligent.  Some of the seduction scenes are very inventive - particularly when Sebastian sets out to make her \\"heart race and her bones melt\\" (the first of two scenes involving chess), not to mention when Sebastian teaches Juliet to shoot.  But don't get me wrong, there is a story here and a relationship here, not just a series of seduction scenes.<br />Obviously, these two characters have a lot to resolve and it was all resolved satisfactorily in my view.  I was a bit wary about the abduction thing, worried that it would be cliched, but that really is background for the action and is not overdone.  The real story is about Sebastion finally being honest with Juliet and himself about what he has done and what he really wants.  And Juliet is relentless in making him face what he's done and demanding he deal honorably with the consequences of his actions.<br />This is one enjoyable book.  It's the first I've read by this author and I wonder if her others are this good.	2002-07-11
US	40354595	R1370ETJ1O8EQV	0515115843	842173583	Lord of Falcon Ridge	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Yuck - Worst of the Trilogy!	This is definitely the worst of the Viking Trilogy!  Coulter is one of the more prolific writers and also one of the most inconsistent.  The best of the series was the first (Hawkfell), followed by the second (Raven's Peak).  Ms Coulter should have stopped there.  <br />While Chessa was a spunky, likeable heroine, I have no clue what made her so mad so quickly about Cleve.  I found him dull, dull, dull!  His daughter was quite cute, but for the life of me, I couldn't see what Chessa saw in him.<br />And the whole Loch Ness monster thing and the magic stick Cleve's father had - well it was just plain silly.  <br />I'm the sort who will read and re-read over and over books that I like.  This will not be one of them.	2002-07-10
US	40354595	R5PRSSPRRHQLM	0553583905	465844032	Kingdom Of Moonlight	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Disappointing follow-up to Dream Island	Having read (and enjoyed) all of Ms. Litton's other books, I was looking forward to this latest effort. Unfortunately, it's a bit of a disappointment. I loved \\"Dream Island\\" where we first met Alex's sister Kassandra and Joanna's brother Royce but I did not particularly care for Royce's character so I suppose I should have known. If you read \\"Believe in Me\\" you might think of Royce as a less likable version of Hawk - autocratic, authoritarian, with little sense of humor. And though Kassandra had the potential to lighten him up, the circumstances in the book throw her into such serious situations that we see little of the sprite Kassandra may have appeared at the beginning of the book and in \\"Dream Island\\". She is weighed down by an tragic vision of her future that she unswervingly believes is inevitable and inescapable, though when her visions are of others' futures, it is only \\"one possible path of many\\" and so not definite. Heh?<br />And there is little chemistry or passion between these characters. I was not sure what attracted them to one another. I really had to force myself to stick with this book and that's something I have never had to do with any of the author's other books. It almost seemed that this book existed mainly to advance the story of Akora and to set up the story for the next book \\"Castles in the Mist\\" about Alex and Kassandra's half brother Atreus (which, from the exerpt looks more promising than this one). The book concentrates too much on the situation on Akora - the rebels that may or may not be behind the unrest, on Kassandra's stepping in as Vanax (leader of Akora) while Atreus is in a coma after an assasination attempt - to the detriment of the love story between the two main characters.<br />I will, however, continue my faith in the author and look forward to the last book in the trilogy, Atreus' story.	2002-07-08
US	40354595	R3MTAACIXFBNBY	0553581643	140735987	Come Back to Me	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great way to complete the trilogy!	I truly enjoyed this trilogy!  All three stories were great reads and all three couples endearing.  I think I liked &quot;Dream of Me&quot; the best, but &quot;Come Back to Me&quot; is a close second.<br />The Norse Dragon, the man who loves women, was a great character.  Though normally open to any new adventure, he dreads his arranged marriage with a Saxon lady he knows nothing about.  But he is determined to support his brother Wolf's efforts to maintain the shaky peace between Saxon and Norse and is resigned to his fate.  He has come to England to the home of his friend the Hawk who has loaned him his lodge in the woods to spend some alone time before the wedding. <br />He stumbles across a young boy, who turns out to be a woman in disguise, desperately fleeing and hiding something.  Loathe to let a woman wander about alone and curious about her circumstances, he makes a bargain with her to stay with him for a couple of days hoping to find out who she is and what she is running from.  And since she won't tell him who she is, why should he tell her who he is?  Thus they pass a few days companionably and inevitably are attracted to each other.  <br />But the Saxon lady Rycca has had very bad experiences with men, starting with her own brutal father and brothers.  When she meets Dragon, she is completely thrown - he is like no man she has ever met.  Ever kind, funny and at the same time smart and strong. Surely she has stumbled into some strange land!  He can't be for real!  She decides she must move on and takes off in the night only to be caught on the road by said father and brothers.  Once again, she is rescued by the Dragon.<br />Surprise, surprise they discover they are betrothed to each other!  The rest of the book centers on the growing relationship between Dragon and Rycca, their attempts to build trust and understanding and ultimately to discover who is trying to destroy them and thus the Saxon/Norse alliance.<br />Josie Litton is a great author - read all her books!  Her second trilogy is also a must read - so far!	2002-07-02
US	40354595	R3KVR0BRH23R60	0553584367	865755988	2 books in 1: Dream of Me and Believe in Me	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More like 4 1/2 stars - but not quite 5	I read \\"Dream Island\\", the first of the Akoran trilogy, before the Viking/Saxon trilogy and I loved that book.  So I was looking forward to reading these first books of Josie Litton's. <br />Though I liked both \\"Dream of Me\\" and \\"Believe in Me\\" I couldn't rate the combined books at 5 stars.  This is due to \\"Believe\\" being a bit slower paced.  And compared to Wolf and Dragon, the Norse brothers, Hawk is a bit on the dull side.  Actually he reminds me a bit of Royce from \\"Dream Island\\" & the just released \\"Kingdom of Moonlight\\".  A bit too serious and occasionally self-righteous (though still likeable).  <br />But Wolf and Dragon (and Hawk) are terrific, funny, charming, sexy guys.  I must say Josie Litton creates really likeable male characters.  Her female characters are also interesting with each having some sort of \\"gift\\" or maybe curse (!) that they have to handle and live with.  While this could be hokey, the author handles them well and in a fairly low-key fashion.  Both Cymbra and Krysta are likable heroines with Krysta really redeeming the relationship with Hawk with her cute, pixish personality - she lightens him up!  And the gorgeous Cymbra is the perfect mate for the equally gorgeous Wolf.  Their food fight scene was great - funny and sexy!<br />If you are looking for lots of action, these books are not for you.  They really are concentrated on the evolving relationships between the couples in both books.  Don't get me wrong they're not boring, but not action-packed either.<br />Though this trilogy is well written and enjoyable to read, I much more look forward to the Akoran trilogy.  A bit more action, and a bit more background story to go along with the romance and passion!<br />For sure I will look forward to all of Josie Litton's future books.  I think she rates along with Kathleen E Woodiwiss as one of the best writers of historical romance.	2002-07-01
US	40354595	R2MT4HWB81S4EG	051513225X	400114913	Pendragon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Meggie and Thomas are a great couple!	I really would give this book more like 3 3/4 stars, but since I can't I'll round up.  <br />What I liked about this book was the two main characters, Meggie and Thomas.  Though they got together awfully fast (she knew almost nothing about him but marries him on gut instinct) they seemed a sweet couple from the start.  She's completely naive and guiless; he's handsome, charming and sweet.<br />Initially the mystery sounds promising, but it's resolution is a bit on the silly side.  Still, I enjoyed the gothic atmosphere of Pendragon, wondering who had it in for Meggie when attempts are made on her life.  Though you wonder how Thomas turned out so normal living in a house full of such strange characters - particularly his mother!  <br />The whole cat racing thing was a bit much for me.  I just skimmed those parts.  Coulter always has some light device like animals or children in her stories.<br />But I enjoyed it enough to read it twice so far, so that's saying something.	2002-06-27
US	40354595	R38YEP5Y4WCIFB	0380756218	584269167	Night Shadow	Books	4	40	42	N	N	That  Knight Winthrop is one charming guy!	This was DEFINITELY the best of the trilogy.  NightFire was too emotionally draining and NightStorm was too abrupt or something!<br />Anyway, I enjoyed Knight's character.  He's charming, easy going, light hearted and funny.  A confirmed bachelor, no one can believe it when he takes in Lily and her three children.<br />Lily tells Knight that she is the widow of his cousin who was recently killed in Brussels and that she is the mother to Laura Beth and step-mother to Theo and Sam.  Of course, Lily has not told Knight the complete truth and is terrified that he, unused to children, will lose patience and throw them all out into the street.  She is surprised to find him tolerant of the children's antics (the scene with Laura Beth in Knight's study drawing is hysterical!) and he is surprised to find himself not only enjoying the children, but also incredibly attracted to Lily.  Of course what neither of them knows is that Knight's cousin was murdered and that somewhere among Lily and the children's things are hidden jewels that two criminals are looking for thus endangering Lily and the children.  So there's the mystery of the jewels to be solved, and the relationship of Lily and Knight to be resolved with lots of fun along the way.<br />This was a nice, sweet story and Knight and Lily make a cute couple.  An enjoyable read!	2002-06-27
US	40354595	R1GH0PDOE3FA28	0553583360	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Maybe 3.5 or 3.75 stars is more like it, but . . .	This seems to be a love it or hate it kind of book. I was surprised that over-all it only rates 3 stars. While it's not a great book, it is a good one. I enjoyed it - it's so different from the average historical romance and maybe that's the problem others have had with it. No self-centered ingenue, no master seducer of women, just two adults trying to make a better life for themselves and their younger relatives. <br />Neither Lavinia nor Tobias are rich aristocratic types. Nor are they \\"young\\" by the standards of the typical romance. They both have seen their share of the world, both have been married and widowed and they both need to earn money - to make a living. The evolution of their partnership is enjoyable to watch as Tobias is constantly frustrated by the risks Lavinia seems willing to take and is surprised by his own need to protect her from herself. She also surprises him by being quite good at this detective business! They compliment each other in business and their romance develops very slowly with both a bit wary of the other. Again this may be problematic for those looking for a formula romance. Their relationship is adult, complex and both carry baggage from their past. Neither is particularly interested in pursuing a relationship at all, but their attraction is undeniable. Granted, there's not a lot of sex here, so if that's what you're looking for, this book is not for you.  The emphasis here is more on the mystery and the evolving relationships.<br />Then there's the young couple in the making - Lavinia's niece Emmeline and Tobias's young brother-in-law Anthony. Though Lavinia hopes for a more socially advantageous match for Emmeline, it seems that she and Anthony have other ideas. <br />I look forward to the next installment \\"Don't Look Back\\". I want to see where Lavinia and Tobias' relationship and partnership are going to go. And of course, there's also Emmeline and Anthony to watch as well.<br />I hope \\"Don't Look Back\\" is as enjoyable as \\"Slightly Shady\\".	2002-06-25
US	40354595	RI2P946VY9RZF	0380002957	641360874	Devil's Desire	Books	4	49	54	N	N	I liked this book and I even liked Alex!	This is another of those first historical romances that I read when I was a teenager. I recently re-read it to see if it still holds up.  I think it does and is even better than some of what is being written today. <br />OK, Alex is the epitomy of the selfish manipulative rogue.  Everything he does is for a selfish purpose.  But you slowly start to realize that deep down, he does have some redeeming qualities that have just been in hibernation for years.  Spending all his time in \\"the ton\\" with all the useless aristocrats has jaded him to the point that the only person he has any tender feeling for is his younger brother Peter who he has basically raised.  You also learn that he had to take on some serious responsibilities at a very young age with the death of their parents.  Alex sees little to respect in most of the people he meets and so it takes some time for him to see what Elysia can offer him.  He can't believe she's for real and yes, he does use her for his own ends.  <br />Elysia is an orphan.  Her parents are dead and her brother, who is in the Royal Navy, is missing and presumed dead.  She has no one and is living with an evil aunt who makes her work for her keep.  Elysia finally has enough of this abuse and packs up her meager belongings and sets off to London to try and make a better life for herself.  Along the way she stops at an inn and meets up with Alex.  They immediately argue and disagree over life and love and sparks fly.  When they are caught in a \\"scandalous\\" situation created by another guest (who hates and wants revenge on Alex for a past wrong) Alex ruthlessly manipulates Elysia into marrying him as her only option to emerge from the scandal unscathed.  Alex figures on marrying Elysia, taking her to his country estate in Cornwall and basically dumping her there and forgetting about her (except of course, she'll have to provide an heir at some point).<br />But Alex does not immediately return to London and as time passes, he starts to see what she is all about.  She's good, kind, sweet, loyal - things that Alex had thought didn't exist, or not genuinely, anyway.  And he is uncomfortable with the things he is starting to feel for his wife and wonders if she is feeling the same.  He tests her by trying to make her jealous with his former mistress.  He rages when he mistakenly believes that Elysia is having an affair and breaks one of the few keepsakes Elysia had from her late parents (I cried at that scene!).<br />Alex lashes out because Elysia awakens in him feelings he thought himself incapable of and that he believes are not returned.  Feelings that he tries to deny, but ultimately, he has to admit that he loves her, that he's used her unmercifully and has to beg her forgiveness or lose her.  So, OK to some it may seem like I'm letting Alex off too easy, but hey, I liked him even being a jerk!  You just knew instinctively that there was more to him.<br />Then there's the smugglers, spies for Napoleon, and deadly traitors in their midst making things all the more dangerous.<br />I realize this book is likely hard to find, being so old, but give it a try and see what you think.  You might like it as much as I did.	2002-06-24
US	40354595	R3LCH61YLPEJ1A	0380725703	745711270	Love Me Forever	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another of Lindsey's great Scots male characters!	Have you noticed that all of Ms Lindsey's Scots men are her best?  They are all funny, charming, sweet, devil-may-care, unrefined and a bit clueless!  I enjoyed Duncan from \\"The Heir\\", Jamie from \\"A Gentle Feuding\\" and now Lachlan.  <br />I liked how the romance here sort of snuck up on both characters.  Neither was initially interested in the other, yet there was definitely something there.  Something that, as they were thrown together, started to manifest itself to real attraction and then to something more.<br />Kimberly was a walking contradiction in that she was always trying to be so proper, but kept doing things that were highly improper - with Lachlan!  But I must say, he was hard to resist.  He was very charming and persuasive and Kimberly tried desperately not to fall under his spell since she has heard Lachlan proclaim his love for someone else (their hostess, Megan).  While Lachlan continues to claim devotion to Megan, he discovers that he can't get \\"Kimber\\" out of his mind.<br />When Lachlan is wrongfully accused of stealing horses from Megan's husband's stable, Kimberly sets out to prove him innocent.  Kimberly knows he is innocent because she was with Lachlan at the time, but cannot admit that without ruining her reputation.  So she and Megan take on the task of clearing Lachlan's name (without endangering Kimberly's rep).  Little do both Kimberly and Lachlan know, but Megan has been playing matchmaker for them all along, throwing them together and planting seeds in each other.  <br />Well, Megan was right, all ends well with Kimberly and Lachlan marrying and with Kimberly discovering her Scots roots and family she never knew.	2002-06-24
US	40354595	R2JKLLY89PDZW3	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Not much substance here.	This is the first Laurens book I have ever read and it may be the last. There is not much of substance to keep one interested. The characters are not well developed, the relationship is shallow and the murder mystery is [bad].<br />First of all, what did she see in Martin? Admittedly, he seemed promising at their first meeting when he rescues her during an ill-advised card game, but after that?  Almost every facial description of him used the word \\"stony\\" or he was gritting his teeth or barely suppressing anger. Though he's handsome and sexy, what else is he?  He has no sense of humor, does nothing but brood - sounds like fun!  The author was a bit more generous with Amanda, but though she is smart and vivacious, she also comes off as completely calculating and shallow.  Other than sex what was there between these two characters? Not much! Once the thrill of forbidden sex is gone, will these two have anything to say to each other?  I never thought I'd say this but there were so many sex scenes in the book (though they were hot) it became boring! <br />And what's with Amanda carrying on in such a \\"shocking\\" fashion for the times? How is she getting away with this? I hardly think her behavior would have been acceptable nor even possible for an aristocratic young lady of the day. How is she sneaking off with a houseful of family and servants?  Where are her parents? And then when Martin tells her male cousins what has transpired between him and Amanda, they aren't even shocked! They immediately accept him as a part of the family!! It just all seems so unrealistic and even silly.<br />Well, I guess I'll be reading the companion book about Amanda's twin Amelia anyway, since I've already bought it, but if it's anything like this one, it's going to be tough to finish!  But at least Lucien Ashford seems to have more going for him than Martin - more personality, more humor.  At least I hope so!!!	2002-06-20
US	40354595	R5M0HN25CT670	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A great follow-up to Lord of Fire	Wow!  These two books - Lord of Fire and Lord of Ice - have jumped to the top of my fave books list!  These twin brothers, Lucien and Damien pulled me completely into their lives, loves, problems and triumphs!  These are men you can really care about.  Though I give the edge to LOF as the better story, LOI was great as well.  <br />Damien Knight returns from six years fighting Napoleon hailed as a hero and made an earl.  He hardly feels like a hero and suffers from some serious survivor's guilt.  He is tormented by horrifying nightmares and halucinations of his experiences and wonders if he is going mad.  Worried that he will harm others or himself, he isolates himself in his broken-down estate to live like a hermit and try to fix his fractured psyche.<br />But his isolation doesn't last long.  He is forced back into society by the murder of a former officer and friend who has named Damien guardian to his niece.  Damien wants nothing more than to ensure his new ward is settled in life and then return to his monkish existence alone.<br />But he doesn't count on Miranda!  She's vivacous, flirty, fresh, innocent and very lonely.  She's been dumped in a school for girls, forgotten by her family for years. Damien is shocked to discover that his ward is no little girl, but a young woman.  One he is incredibly attracted to.  She's just what he needs - a tonic for his lost soul.  But he pushes her away fearing that he is good for nothing but killing and inflicting pain.<br />But Miranda knows better; sees Damien for who he is - honorable, kind, strong, charming, dangerous, vulnerable and lost.  She's as determined to heal him with her love as he is to push her away.<br />A sweet journey for these two lovable characters.  I love that the author brings back characters from The Duke and LOF in quite natural settings - not just props in the background.  I can just feel future books about Jacinda and \\"Billy Blade\\", Alec and Lizzie, and black sheep Jack and look forward to them eagerly!	2002-06-13
US	40354595	R1G63UTITRG1CQ	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An AWESOME Book!	It's been a long time since I've read a book that so totally consumed me! I've read and re-read \\"Lord of Fire\\" and \\"Lord of Ice\\" and though I love both, LOF is my favourite and it all comes down to Lucien Knight.<br />I was completely charmed and moved by Lucien's character. I think he is perhaps THE most charming male character I've ever come across in ANY novel I've yet read (though Ruark from \\"Shanna\\" by K E Woodiwiss and Alex from \\"Dream Island\\" by J Litton are up there too!). I adored him and rooted for his redemption! <br />He was so tortured; did things he did not necessarily want to do - for his twin brother Damien he joined the Army, for his country he became a spy. No one knows the true extent of Lucien's loneliness, despair and self-loathing because he hides it so well behind his swagger, his mask of total self confidence and debauchery. But he is in reality a very charming, extremely intelligent, funny man who has done damage to his name, reputation and his soul in the name of Duty and Loyalty. And not only is Lucien spiritually damaged by his war experiences he was captured and tortured by an enemy spy.  He had thought Claude Bardou was dead but learns he is quite alive and most likely on his way to England on some deadly mission.  Whatever it takes, Lucien must stop him; kill him.<br />Then Lucien meets Alice, quite by accident under less than pleasant circumstances, and he catches a glimpse of what he has been missing in his life - goodness, sweetness. But Alice was not totally \\"Miss Goody-Two Shoes\\"! She was a \\"good girl\\" but with a passionate and curious nature. I liked Alice. She was smart, sweet, open-minded and loyal.<br />Some of the best scenes in the book are Lucien poring on his considerable charm to coax and persuade Alice to give them a chance to see if their initial mutual attraction is the real thing or just a fluke - even if his methods are not exactly \\"socially acceptable\\". His near desperation to keep Alice with him - for her goodnessto rub off on him and help him to change his life is really sweet and touching.<br />The relationship between Lucien and his twin brother Damien is also explored - their estrangement over Lucien's leaving the army, his less than honorable (at least as far as Damien is concerned) profession as a spy and Lucien's seduction of a woman Damien had planned to marry.  For brothers who had been inseparable just two years before, this breach is heartbreaking.<br />The book also introduces Damien's shellshock from the war and his doubts about his sanity which sets up the storyline for \\"Lord of Ice\\".<br />Both books are awesome!	2002-06-10
US	40354595	R3DRRZV12SL9WR	0380005255	833024518	The Flame and the Flower (The Birmingham Family)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not the best KEW but still good	Along with all of KEW's early books I read this book years ago and have re-read it over the years.  I just finished re-reading it yet again and I still enjoyed it but not as much as &quot;Shanna&quot; or &quot;The Wolf and the Dove&quot;.  I'm not one for political correctness, but I really hated Brandon in the beginning.  Let's be blunt, he pretty much rapes Heather those first times.  I guess that's the reaction you're supposed to have to him - just as Heather does.  And she is a bit wimpy but, as other reviews have pointed out, she's a very naive 18 and he's a wordly 35!<br />But Brandon starts to redeem himself pretty early on displaying some humor and caring to go along with all the anger and impatience and the reader starts to fall for him slowly as does Heather.  But I must say, once they finally get together, I lost interest.  The background story of the murdered women and the man from Heather's past wasn't as strong as the background stories/mysteries in some of KEW's other books.<br />But I did think this one had some great supporting characters.  Brandon's brother Jeff was funny, mischievous and so charming! I would have dumped Brandon for Jeff in a heartbeat!   Hatti was the truth-teller and mother figure for both Heather and Brandon - think &quot;Mammy&quot; from &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot;.<br />Not KEW's best, but still a great read and as others have pointed out, though written in 1972, it still holds up.	2002-06-04
US	40354595	R26QWS1K7J3BDH	0380007789	856556145	The Wolf and the Dove	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Excellent Love Story - On of KEW's Best	Shanna was the first of KEW's books I had ever read and that led me to read all of her others.  The Wolf and the Dove is definitely on my list of fave romances (along with &quot;Shanna&quot;, &quot;Ashes in the Wind&quot;, &quot;Flame &amp; Flower&quot;).<br />Of all of KEW's male characters, Wulfgar is unique.  He is initially domineering, almost cruel and unsympathetic, but that facade, resulting from a hard life, hides a very sweet vulnerable man that has had very little experience with love or any other tender feeling.  He along with Ruark from &quot;Shanna&quot; and Cole from &quot;Ashes&quot; are my fave KEW men.  <br />From the very beginning Wulfgar's relationship with Aislinn is different from any other he's ever had with a woman.  He's a man who claims to hate women, to only use them, to never spend money on them or care for them.  Yet from the first, he treats her differently.  He doesn't demand that she immediately share his bed, he protects her from his men, he buys her material to make a new gown, and eventually even fights for her (against the dastardly Ragnor).  She slowly worms her way into his reluctant heart.<br />Aislinn is also a bit unique for a KEW heroine.  She's not the haughty, spoiled type like a Shanna nor an almost doormat like Heather in &quot;Flame&quot;.  She is very strong, with a sense of responsibility to her people who have been conquered by Wulfgar's forces.  Much of what she fights for is not for herself, but for her people.  She is also perceptive enough to see that Wulfgar is not your typical conquerer.  He's fair minded and wants to bring peace back to Darkenwald.  She falls for him over time after observing that he isn't what he professes to be.<br />I love this book.  I first read it years ago, have read it many times since, and re-read it again just recently.  I still was delighted by it.  See if you don't agree.	2002-05-31
US	40354595	R1S46JBCWA14CK	0380756250	143694847	Once a Princess (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great story and great characters	I read these books backwards not realizing that &quot;You Belong to Me&quot; was actually a sequel to &quot;Once a Princess&quot; so I was introduced to Alex and Vasili before Stefan and Tanya.  I think both stories were fun and both couples enjoyable to read about.  It's a tough call, but I think &quot;Once a Princess&quot; is the better story.  I could really relate to Tanya's character - her disbelief at being a princess, her humor, her determination to control her own life.  And Stefan - YUM! - his looks (raven haired; golden-eyed) were definitely to my liking and the scars just added to his character.  His vulnerability and occasional lack of confidence was endearing as was the total loyalty and love for him displayed by his friends, Vasili, Lazar and Serge.<br />The love story between Tanya and Stefan developed slowly and sweetly with both characters trying to delay the other in discovering their true selves - she with &quot;camoulflage&quot; and he with an identity switch.  Usually I find myself preferring the male characters to the females in these stories (perverse, huh? but the women are usually spoiled or too high maintenance), but here I found myself rooting for both of them.<br />The unsung hero of both books is Lazar.  A keen observer, he's often the comic relief, the truth-teller, the one who makes the lead characters &quot;see the light&quot;.  His character was sweet, funny and smart and a totally enjoyable supporting character.  Every girl hopes her man has a friend like Lazar to bring them down to earth and keep him honest - especially with himself!	2002-05-30
US	40354595	R64ENFBULYLJ4	0380385880	75448761	Shanna	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This REALLY IS the BEST historical romance EVER!	Shanna was the first romance I'd ever read and I've been a fan of KEW's books ever since (though \\"A Season Beyond a Kiss\\" was so bad I never finished it - Jeff Birmingham deserved better!).  I first read it over 15 years ago when I was a teenager and I've re-read it innumerable times since.  <br />Shanna and Ruark are great characters - especially Ruark!  He's so cool!  He adapts to every situation and somehow turns almost every one to his advantage.  Which makes Shanna nuts since all her plans seem to go awry!  Their relationship is entirely tempestuous and lots of fun to watch.  While Shanna is likeable in a spoiled brat kind of way, Ruark is completely loveable!  Smart, sexy and always keeps his sense of humor.  Shanna can't resist his pull though she desperately wants to.<br />There are plenty of mysteries, twists & turns, pirates, murders and suspicions to keep the story interesting as well as several different locales including London, the Carribean and Virginia in the American Colonies.<br />The gist of the story is spoiled rich girl is given one year in London to find a husband before her father chooses one for her.  When said daughter's year is near it's end and no prince charming is found, Shanna comes up with the devious scheme of marrying a due to hang prisoner with an aristocratic-sounding name.  In this way, she gains a \\"husband\\", loses him in a \\"carriage accident\\", returns home to the Carribean a \\"widow\\" and gets her father off her back.  Ruark being said prisoner (convicted of a murder he claims he didn't commit) is offered improved conditions until his death, a decent burial and the thing he wants most - to spend his wedding night with his bride.  Both agree to THE BARGAIN and wed.  However, Shanna has no intention of honoring the wedding night part earning Ruark's rage.  He is returned to jail seething and vowing revenge while Shanna assumes he is hanged and returns home.  What she doesn't plan on is that Ruark did not hang and is in fact travelingto her home on the very same ship unbeknownst to her.  When she discovers him in her father's employ and he demands fulfillment of THE BARGAIN all hell breaks loose.  And that's just the beginning!  Read it for yourself.  You won't regret it!	2002-05-28
US	40354595	R1WEHMBWW1BXYU	0380762587	921465515	You Belong to Me (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A fun read!	When I read this book I didn't realize it was a &quot;sequel&quot; of sorts to &quot;Once a Princess&quot; which I haven't yet read - but will.  I thought this book was lots of fun.  Alex, at 25 quite old for a heroine, is perfectly happy with her life and her horses and is not interested in marriage.  Her father wants her to marry and manufactures a &quot;long forgotten&quot; betrothal to Vasili, the son of his old long dead friend.<br />Vasili is the too-handsome-for-his-own-good cousin to the King of Cardinia.  He's enjoying the bachelor life to the hilt (he's got three mistresses and a live-in slave!) and he seems to always get his way.  Except when his mother tells him he's betrothed to a woman he's never met!<br />Since neither want to marry, they each try desperately to repell the other into breaking the betrothal (neither want to dishonor their fathers by breaking it themselves).  In this Alex does the better job - if I had been Vasili, I would have had to slap her more than once!<br />I LOVED Vasili's character.  For a vain, strutting peacock he had a lot of humor and more patience that I would have had.  Alex on the other hand needed to grow up!  Waiting seven years for some guy from her past was a bit much.  I loved the fact that toward the end, Vasili was willing to accept the less than lady-like habits of Alex anyway not knowing she was doing it all for show.  That was sweet.  All in all a fun read.	2002-05-20
US	40354595	R1SS5FSNVVSOFO	0553583891	732651345	Dream Island (Akora)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I LOVED, LOVED, LOVED THIS BOOK!	This is the best romance novel I've read since Kathleen E Woodiwiss' \\"Shanna\\" (which if you haven't read, you should!). I haven't yet read any of Josie Litton's other books, but I really enjoyed this one. I've read it three times, so far.<br />I was a bit wary initially of a book with a \\"mythic kingdom\\" but the author really brought Akora alive to the reader. The \\"another time, another place\\" aspect was fun and the customs and court intrigue on Akora were interesting.<br />And Alex - half English, half Akoran - Lord Darcourt in England; Prince Alexandros on Akora was absolutely fabulous! I really loved his character. Sweet, charming, arrogant, smart, strong, sexy - mmm, mmm!<br />Lady Joanna Hawkforte was fun and feisty. Stowing away on a ship bound to the foreign land of Akora which doesn't welcome strangers. Her brother went there months before and has yet to return, and Lady Joanna, unable to get any assistance to find her brother from either the British government or from the arrogant Lord Darcourt, sets off to find him herself. <br />She is discovered in the hold of the Akoran ship by Alex and he allows her to remain on board and go on to Akora. He's not convinced that her brother is there, but he doesn't dismiss the idea either. He tells Joanna that he will look into her brother's situation once they arrive in Akora.<br />From there, romance, adventure, intrigue and assasination attempts ensue. The action moves between England and Akora.  We meet Alex's half-brother Atreus, leader of Akora, Alex's sister Kassandra and Joanna's brother Royce setting up the characters for a trilogy of \\"Akora\\" stories.  Lots of fun, a sweet love story, characters that you can care about and wild adventures. What more can you ask for?	2002-05-20
US	40354595	R1T8DMMKHUD4VU	1567407250	271652627	The Heir (Reid Family Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	I REALLY ENJOYED THIS ONE, NOT EXACTLY SURE WHY!	For some reason I really enjoyed this book, but after reading it at least twice, I'm still not sure why.  I have to agree with some of the other reviews on a couple of things:  definitely wanted more of the Rafe Locke character - he was fun!;  the whole \\"scandal\\" thing was a bit lame; and the two aunts I could have done without completely.<br />I guess what I liked was that Sabrina wasn't considered a beauty but she got the guy anyway.  Refreshing for these types of stories.  Usually the women are drop-dead gorgeous.  I also really liked Duncan's character.  Very sweet, sort of clueless, funny, just a nice guy.  Not the seductive charmer or domineering or vengeful \\"master\\"-type usually seen in these books.<br />What surprised me the most was the enjoyment I got from the interactions of the grandfathers competing for the love and loyalty of their grandson.  Archie, who raised Duncan and thinks he knows him so well, but Neville, just getting to know his grandson may ultimately understand him better.  Duncan stuck between them feeling his first loyalty to Archie but also a grudging respect for Neville.  It was kinda sweet.<br />Since I've read it more than once, I must enjoy it - you might too.	2002-05-15
US	40354595	R2ZI0LAFY58TXZ	051512088X	46135796	Rosehaven (Song Series)	Books	4	35	39	N	N	LIGHTEN UP ON THE PC SENSIBILITIES WILL YA!!	THE STORY TAKES PLACE IN 1277 FOR GOD'S SAKE!!  Men were pigs, women were possessions, unwanted sexual advances and physical violence were a daily occurrence!  If this sort of thing makes you uncomfortable, read something more sugary and tame.  I'd rather have a little bit of reality intrude on the fantasy!  I thought this was a cracking good read!  I thought that Severin, the male \\"lead\\" was hysterical (though the whole dressing in all grey thing I could have done without).  He stomps around trying to intimidate and dominate in order to prove he's a man and the master of his newly acquired castle.  He screams, he shouts, he throws things, he pouts - he's a big baby who wants his way ALL THE TIME (you know, a man!).  I laughed out loud at him!  Hastings I'm not sure exactly what I think of her.  She handled him the best way she could and ultimate won in the end (as they always do).  I thought she was sweet in her naivete but not sickly so.  Nor was she a total doormat either.  But I must admit that the whole sex-solves-everything solutions the women come up with was a bit nauseating - but hey it's a sex/romance novel - what else should be expected here!?  The whole marten thing was kinda iffy - the only time I felt that the thing was useful was when there were kids involved but I usually don't go for the cutesy animal thing.<br />Bottom line I found it to be a fun book if you can handle the darker aspects of the time period and overlook some of the too-cute stuff.  I really did laugh a lot reading it (whether this was what the author intended or not) and found it lots of fun!	2002-05-15
