US	40532911	RK33OQS8EX6H9	067492276X	257820683	Beneath the United States: A History of U.S. Policy toward Latin America	Books	5	21	28	N	N	American Ignorance and Attitudes Toward Latin American	In this readable and comprehensive book Schoultz describes the relations between the United States and Latin America. He shows the domestic politics, attitudes and individuals that made Americas relations with Latin America. We see the ignorance and attitude of superiority that was first stated by John Adams, and never totally went away. He demonstrates how England's influence in Latin America effected American relations. Schoultz also shows the ignorance, actions and attitudes of a series of diplomats, and how they made policy.<br />Schoultz describes how slavery effected the domestic politics that helped create the American relations toward Latin America until the Civil War. After the Civil War American began a policy of paternalism and then imperialism. America had two goals in her relations with Latin America, to help Latin America, and to replace European influence in Latin America. Good intentions and ignorance lead to a series of interventions in countries like Cuba and Nicaragua.  Later America developed the policies of Dollar Diplomacy, and then the Good Neighbor policy. Finally we see the attempts to eliminate the influence of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in Latin America. <BR>.<BR>Schoultz concludes that American policy in Latin America was dictated by security, economic interests and domestic politics. Policy was made and executed by people who often tried to help Latin America and failed through ignorance of the local conditions, and then blamed their failures on the Latin Americans, maintaining the superior attitude toward Latin Americans. <br />There is a series of good maps to clarify the test are included. Schoultz uses a wide variety of  primary sources to tell this rarely told story	2002-09-30
US	40532911	R30GYTHDSFVG0Y	0195100980	260767961	Secret and Sanctioned: Covert Operations and the American Presidency	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Covert Operations of the the Founding Fathers	Stephen Knott starts this fast paced book by recounting the myth that covert operations in America began with the Cold War, and searches for the truth or falsity of this belief. Then Knott recounts the history of covert operations in America, beginning during the Revolutionary war with George Washington. Knott points out how the founding fathers understood the value of secrecy and espionage run by the executive branch to maintain secrecy and deniability. <br />Knott explains how Washington created a contingency fund to pay for spies and secret diplomacy. Jefferson bribed Indians to gain territory and started to overthrow the Pasha of the Barbary pirates. Madison planned covert operations to gain Spanish Florida, to gain land, stop Indian attacks, and get Spain out of North America. Then Knott describes the efforts of Joel Poinsett for President Madison in Argentina and Chile where he tried to incite independence from Spain, and cut down the influence of the British. Eventually Poinsett worked in Mexico on behalf of President Monroe. Andrew Jackson sent Robert Anthony to Mexico to try and get Texas, to help protect New Orleans. During the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln supported covert efforts throughout Europe and Canada supporting the Union through propaganda in newspapers.<br />Knott concludes the book by showing how during the nineteen-seventies, congressmen wanted to control covert operations and set up a congressional oversight in the belief that this is what the founding fathers would have wanted. But, as we have seen, the founding fathers believed in covert operations with no congressional oversight, because even then congress could not keep a secret. Knott's book is full of surprising anecdotes detailing the use of covert operations by the founding fathers.	2002-09-26
US	40532911	RCEGU3PXFBEGC	1842120190	163987221	Phoenix: The Byzantine Commonwealth: Eastern Europe 500-1453	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Byzantium and the Barbarians	After the fall of Rome, Byzantium was the greatest, richest, most  prestigious city in the known world. It was the center of the Orthodox  religion and a great center of culture. It was also the target for every barbarian tribe who wanted a piece of the wealth land and culture.<br />Dimitri Obolensky's readable book achieves two purposes. First he describes the relations between the Byzantine empire and her neighbors. Obolensky explains how the Byzantines used one barbarian tribe against another, like the Avars, Slavs, Bulgars, Pechenegs, Russians and Khazars. He also shows how the Byzantines used religion to influence the tribes and gain control over them. Eventually the barbarian tribes worshipped Byzantium, but did not trust it. <br /> Secondly Obolensky describes how the barbarian cultures like the Bulgars and the Russians adopted the culture and civilization of Byzantium. The new comers learned art, literature, law and religion from Byzantium. <br />This book covers the period from 500 AD to the fall of Byzantium in 1453,<BR> starting with a description of the geography, roads and trade routes the Byzantines used, and their strategic importance. Then Obolensky recounts relations in order of region, from the Balkans, then east-central Europe and finally the coast of the black sea.<BR>Obolensky shows how the Byzantines became the source of legitimacy among the states that made up the commonwealth like the Bulgars and the Russians. Finally he recounts how the barbarians learned art, religion, law and literature, and civilization in general from the Byzantines.<br />The book includes many well placed maps and photos that make this complicated subject clearer. Obolensky's book is a must read book for anyone interested in the history of Byzantium or medieval eastern Europe.	2002-09-01
US	40532911	RHRZC48VWHN5B	0713165375	466960510	The Rise of the European Powers, 1679-1793 (Hodder Arnold Publication)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	European Diplomacy From Louis XIV to the French Revolution	Black's book recounts the diplomatic history of Europe from 1679 to 1798. He begins this informative book by describing how the Ottoman Empire declined, as the Hapsburg Empire grew stronger. Then he recounts the imperial career of Louis 14 of France and his many wars. Black describes Russia s relations with her neighbors Sweden, Austria, Poland Turkey and Persia in the early eighteenth century.<br />Black describes how the rising powers of Europe fought wars like the Spanish Succession over party factions, prestige and succession struggles. Black follows the creation and recreation of alliances, but fails to make never-ending dance of re-alignments clear or understandable.<br />Black concludes with an incisive analysis of diplomacy of the period. He explains how dynastic, especially succession claims were important for the aggrandizement of states. Personal prestige was more important than plans or reasons of state. Natural interests and the balance of power were considered important, but few could identify them. Distrust and disagreements fueled conflict. <br />Black describes the use of ambassadors and the part that nationalism, religion, and trade played in international relations. He also describes the problems of diplomats, such as bad communications, and interminable factional politics. But Black also mentions the improvements in the definitions of frontiers and accuracy of maps.<br />Jeremy Black's book is informative but not very readable. Black refers to the rulers of countries only by their first name, making it confusing. There are maps, but they are all at the beginning of the book. There is a bibliography, but it is not annotated. Black has definitely mastered the subject, but is not very clear at writing it.	2002-08-30
US	40532911	R2ZHYALFNVV0SM	0684146835	214564428	Bismarck	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Detailed Biography  of Bismarck	Alan Palmer has written a very readable biography of Otto von Bismarck. He starts with Bismarck's family history and his parents.  He covers Bismarck's early life, education, personal life and religious beliefs. Palmer also includes quotes from Bismarck and parts of his letters to show his thoughts. Palmers wrote this book to study how Bismarck's labyrinthine mind worked, and this book succeeds nicely and clearly.<br /> This book works both on a scholarly level by describing and explaining Bismarck's politics and diplomacy, and on a layman's level by showing Bismarck's relations with his friends and family. Palmer alternates the high points and low points in Bismarck's political career, like the Schleswig Holstein crisis, the Luxemburg situation and the Drei Kaiser Bund with details of Bismarck's health. Palmer displays Bismarck's plans, both those that work and those that didn't in both politics and diplomacy.<BR> <BR>Palmer concludes his book by shrewdly observing that Bismarck's \\" mastery of detail and skill at seizing and making opportunities enabled him, within nine years, to create a greater Prussia and call it Germany. Thereafter, his ability to maintain an intricate system of alliances and alignments imposed the balanced peace which the classical diplomats had sought in vain. Within Germany Bismarck failed in one important respect: he never attempted to build up a secure form of government in the Reich\\".<br /> Palmer has included several maps, a collection of photographs, and an excellent	2002-08-04
US	40532911	R3264FDRLVE3GC	0393004139	907616057	Europe's Classical Balance of Power: A Case History of the Theory and Practice of One of the Great Concepts of European Statecraft	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Balance of Power and the Congress of Vienna	Gulick's book is a perceptive discussion of the principles and use of the balance of power. Gulick starts by analyzing the assumptions, goals and means of the balance of power. Then he analyzed the Congress of Vienna which reset the balance of power after it was destroyed by the French revolution and Napoleon.<br />Gulick assumes the existence of a system of states of similar size, using permanent ambassadors to observe the states continuously, and a way of measuring the strength of a state. He explains that the balance of power is created to maintain the existence of the states system. Then Gulick defines the means to these aims. He mentions surveillance, alliances, coalitions, the ability to switch alliances quickly, and the determination to either destroy an enemy completely, or rebuild him to maintain the balance of power. <br />Napoleons military success destroyed the balance of power in Europe. Gulick describes the attempts to regain that balance. He begins with an alliance of Austria, Prussia and Russia to oppose Napoleon. Then Castlereagh arrived from Britain  to create a grand coalition for several goals. The first goal was to defeat Napoleon, The second goal was to rearrange the borders, that Napoleon had changed, which would strengthen the balance of power. The last goal was to create a permanent diplomatic structure to maintain peace. Castlereagh encountered distrust among the allies, especially between Austria and Russia, which made his task difficult.<br />After the coalition achieved its first goal, to defeat Napoleon, they considered what to do with defeated France. The coalition wanted to maintain France as a power but not a danger. This would maintain the balance of power. Unfortunately the coalition to redraw the map of Europe to keep peace fell afoul of a disagreement concerning Saxony and Poland. When Napoleon returned, the allies rebuilt their coalition to defeat him, and continued to redraw the borders of Europe. Gulick concludes with a shortdiscussion of the weaknesses of the balance of power, especially the problems of conflicting aims, and nationalism.<br />Gulick includes several primitive maps and a good bibliography. Since this is mainly a book about principles and their use, there is a minimum discussion about the individuals carrying out the principles. The nice thing about Gulick's book is that he supports his theory with  excellent real life examples.	2002-06-28
US	40532911	R23H007ZHWG633	0520225155	82928056	Peace Process: American Diplomacy and the Arab-Israeli Conflict since 1967	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The United States making peace between Israel and the Arabs	This detailed account of the American peace process in the Arab Israeli conflict is written by William Quandt, who has served Nixon and Carter on the National Security council.<BR>Quandt tells what diplomatic moves the United States made to bring peace between Israel and the Arabs.<br />The account begins with the Six Day war. After the Six Day war the Arabs wanted Israel to give back land they had taken and justice for the Palestinians. The Israelis wanted peace and the Arabs to recognize Israel's right to exist. But the Israelis had no intention of giving up land, and the Arabs were not likely to recognize Israel's legitimacy <br />Tension existed in the Middle East until war broke out again in October 1973. Kissinger had ignored the Middle East until then, after which he negotiated continually in the Middle East under Nixon and Ford to bring peace to keep the Soviets from exploiting the chaos.<br /> Carter started negotiations in the 70s, after Begin began construction of settlements on the lands captured in the Six Day war, indicating that the lands would be permanently held by Israel, making peace with the Arabs much more difficult. Carter worked hard to gain peace between Israel and Egypt which cost him in domestic politics. Carter mentioned the Palestinians for the first time in the negotiations<br />Under Reagan there were a lot of plans, but little was accomplished. After the Gulf War Bush restarted peace negotiations, hoping that the Palestinians support of Saddam Hussein would weaken them, and the collapse of the Soviet Union would remove support for the Arabs. Quandt ends with an account of Clinton's attempts at peace in the Mideast.<br />Quandt concludes that certain conditions must be met to gain success. There must be a realist appraisal of the regional situation, presidents like Johnson, Nixon, and Reagan considered Mideast policy as part of US Soviet relations. The President and his top advisors must work together in the negotiations, not like in the Rogers plan. There must be domestic support for American policy, a problem for Carter. Success as a mediator depends on a feeling for both process and substance.  There must be quiet negotiation and preparation for negotiations. Pressure only succeeds if carefully exerted. Timing is crucial for successful negotiations.<br />Because this book is about the peace process between America and Israel, <BR>there is almost no information about the domestic politics of any countries, especially the Arab countries. This book includes a good bibliography, and some good maps.	2002-06-28
US	40532911	R2XCK53IL1K0ZW	0486255700	217034757	Renaissance Diplomacy	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Rise of Ambassadors in the Renaissance	In this classic study, Garrett Mattingly describes the development of diplomatic methods and carefully delineates the diplomatic history beginning during the Renaissance that made these diplomatic procedures necessary. As relations between European states increased during the Renaissance, and later as religious differences arose between states, a system of permanent diplomatic representation became common. Resident ambassadors represented their government, negotiated and observed their resident country. The increasing frequency of relations in Italy made resident ambassadors a necessary tool.<br />The breakneck speed of diplomatic relations in Italy began in Milan, who had more spendable money than the other Italian states. Mattingly follows the adoption of resident ambassador from state to state as each state discovers the advantages of resident ambassador. Mattingly follows the labyrinthine diplomacy of the Italian wars, the Hapsburg Valois wars and the religious wars, and how the use of resident ambassadors affected them. We see how individual kings adopted the use of resident ambassadors, and meet some of the more notable ambassadors. Mattingly shows how the religious wars were hard times for diplomats who served in countries with different beliefs from their own.<br /> Mattingly displays a deep understanding of the wide range of both primary and secondary sources he has used	2002-06-17
US	40532911	R1R4SPRT6DWR8F	080612718X	847626903	New England Frontier: Puritans and Indians, 1620-1675, 3rd edition	Books	4	25	30	N	N	Tribes and Colonies	In 1620 the English Puritans settled in the region they called New England. There they met the natives, the Indians. This book explains how the Puritans and Indians related with each other until 1675. Vaughan demonstrates that the Puritans did not exploit the Indians as often believed but dealt fairly with them. He neither denigrates nor whitewashes either the Puritans or the Indians, but is fair to both sides. <br />Vaughan describes the Indians, their beliefs and customs, and what they thought of the Puritans. Vaughan also portrays the beliefs and customs of the Puritans and their attitudes towards the Indians. Vaughan recounts how the Puritans and the Indians allied together to destroy the aggressive Pequot tribe in the Pequot war in 1637.<BR>Vaughan sketches the trade between Puritans and Indians, at first trading furs for items and later for wampum. Then he describes how the Puritans tried to fit the Indians fairly into their legal system. Finally he recounts the Puritans attempts to convert the Indians to Christianity. <br />This is an excellent account, based on extensive primary and secondary sources, of the little known period before King Philips attack on the Puritans changed how the colonists and the Indians saw each other.	2002-06-17
US	40532911	RMG28RHTXY147	0672535106	906369485	Bismarck and the French Nation, 1848-1890.	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Bismarck and the French	Alan Mitchell's thin book describes the relations between France and Germany under Bismarck. France was a diplomatic pariah in Europe. But when Napoleon 3 overthrew Louis Philip, Bismarck realized that Napoleon iii was unpredictable, but he could be dealt with. Bismarck decided that Prussia should keep its options open toward France, no matter what Austria decided. France's success and Russia's defeat in the Crimean War supported Bismarck's belief that the Holy Alliance was over and that Napoleon 3 was a man to be reckoned with, and that Napoleon 3 did not want to oppose Prussia. Bismarck also realized that France might deal with Russia because they did not conflict with each other over anything.<br />After 1866 Bismarck placated Napoleon 3 desire for territorial compensation with empty promises. Napoleon 3 moves were useful to Bismarck to persuade the southern states to join the northern German confederation.<br />Mitchell quickly describes the Roman and Luxemburg problems and the causes of <BR>the Franco-Prussian War. He writes about the peace negotiations for the Franco-Prussian War in detail. The resulting territorial annexations by Germany created a permanent desire for revenge in the French, and Bismarck wanted to make the French unable to carry out that revenge. France stayed weak and divided, not necessarily because of Bismarck, until Bismarck left office.<br />Mitchell's book was too short for the subject covered, but he included an excellent bibliography	2002-05-20
US	40532911	R256BV6Z9FFUAD	0582229456	204570273	The Origins of the Modern European State System, 1494-1618	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Early Modern European Diplomacy	I wish I had this book when I was in college, because it would have made an excellent textbook for my course on 'War and Diplomacy'. This book is a good political and economic overview of the period between the Italian Wars and the Thirty Years War. M S Anderson starts this book by explaining that in early modern Europe nations fought for dynastic prestige or religious differences. The monarchs also had a healthy respect for the balance of power. Anderson also mentions that the high expense of warfare kept wars inconclusive. <br />Anderson begins by describing the Habsburg-Valois wars in the first half of the sixteenth century. During the Italian wars, France had gained and lost Milan, and Spain had captured Milan and Naples. Afterward, the Hapsburg Charles V inherited a vast empire, including Spain, Spanish America, the United Netherlands and the Hapsburg lands in Germany. But Charles V wanted to regain Burgundy, which once belonged to the Hapsburgs, from France. Francis I wanted Milan back from Spain. Francis 1 and Charles V fought a series of inconclusive wars for the prestige of regaining what was once theirs.. Neither Spain nor France was able to gain their goals because of the lack of money. Francis I was desperate enough to ally with Protestants and the Ottoman Empire to attack Charles V. <br />The balance of power shifted after the Hapsburg-Valois wars. After Francis 1 died in 1547 France was weakened by a series of civil wars fought between political factions and religious divisions until 1585. Charles V abdicated in 1555, dividing the Hapsburg Empire between his brother Ferdinand, and his son Philip 2. Philip 2 had continual problems from revolts in the Netherlands. The revolt in the Netherlands cost Philip 2 huge amounts of money. At first Queen Elizabeth refused to support the rebels in the Netherlands because she did not want France to exploit them. But the threat from Spain got stronger, and France was weakened by civil wars. Eventually Elizabeth supported the rebels against Spain. Spain's power reached a watershed when the first armada in 1588 failed to destroy England, mainly because of bad weather and poor administration. Even so Spain was still powerful. While Charles v and Francis I fought each other, the Reformation rose in Germany. Lutherans eventually found a certain amount of acceptance, although the Calvinists did not. The Peace of Augsburg brought political stability, but religious tensions increased until the Thirty Years War.<br />Interestingly, Anderson describes the relations of powers bordering on Europe. Anderson describes the relations of the Ottomans. He points out how the Ottomans were powerful, but not unbeatable. The Ottomans not only had to relate with the Christian Europeans, some like the French hoped to use the Ottomans against the Hapsburgs, but the Ottomans had also to worry about the Persians, who were a threat. The last chapter describes how Muscovy advanced west against Livonia and Sweden and Poland-Lithuania until Muscovy bordered on the Baltic.<br />This book includes a chronology, a series of maps and a series of bibliographical notes.	2002-05-20
US	40532911	RCQ9822V407LI	0452011604	680454008	Understanding Islam: An Introduction to the Muslim World, Third Edition	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Comprehending Islam	There have been contradictory statements about Islam, indicating a pervasive ignorance about Islam in the United States. This book is an introductory discussion of Islam that  should begin to clear up this confusion. <br />Thomas Lippman has worked for many years throughout the Middle East so he has extensive experience with Islam. Lippman starts by pointing out that Islam has no hierarchic clergy, there is no priest between a Moslem and Allah.<BR>Lippman describes the five duties of a Moslem: The shahada, the profession of faith.  The ritual prayer, done five times a day, facing toward Mecca.  Zakat, donation to charity. Fasting during Ramadan, and the hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in a lifetime.<br />Then Lippman talks about Mohammed, who is not a saint, but only a man who brought the final word of God to man. Lippman continues with a description of the Koran, believed by Moslems to be the literal word of God.<br />Lippman explains how Islamic government is not separate from Islam or the Koran.<BR>Even though there should be no one between the common man and Allah, members of the ulama sometimes tried to color the Sharia with  their own interpretation.<br />Non Moslems often take offense to the Islam's apparent attitude toward women.<BR>The Koran grants women the same rights as men, although this is not always followed in practice. <br />Lippman shows how, like all things Islam began with certain beliefs, but gradually time and use changed the way Islam was practiced. Superstition and cultural ideas and tradition grew. Some people developed power and influence contrary to the sharia. Attitudes and prejudices grew.  Islam stagnated. Groups worshipping the same allah, following the same sharia developed into factions fighting viciously amongst each other. These later developments are faults of men, not Islam. Too often the western world sees only the faults and fails to see the original Islam.	2002-05-20
US	40532911	R1NWINA6XPNJF2	0670839876	58774533	The Tigers of Mysore:a Biography of Haider Ali & Tipu Sultan	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Tigers of Mysore crushed by the British	Praxy Fernandes has written a readable dual biography of Hyder Ali and his son Tipu Sultan who built up the south Indian state of Mysore in the mid 1700s. After the Mughal empire which ruled India collapsed in the early 1700s, a collection of warlords and princes including the Marathas, the Nizam, and Hyder Ali of Mysore took their place. <br />Hyder Ali built up the Mysore state by defeating his neighbors. But he lost the First Anglo Mysore war from 1767 to 1769 to the British who were beginning to take over India. Hyder Ali died in1782 during the second Anglo Mysore war and his son Tipu succeeded him. Tipu tried to keep his state viable during multiple attacks from his enemies, the British, and their allies the Marathas and the Nizam.<br />Fernandes shows how the British wanted to eliminate Tipu and eventually found an excuse to attack him in the Third Anglo Mysore war(1790-1792). The British defeated Tipu Sultan and he lost much territory. Fernandes shows the sometimes disreputable dealings of the British, first the East India Company, and later the British government. <br />The British have spread many lies about Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, which Fernandes attempts to correct. We see that even though Fernandes has no love for the British he tries to be fair. <br />This book is both a military account complete with battle accounts, and an account of some of their diplomacy. Fernandes included a bibliography, but should also have included maps and a glossary to make the book more clear. This book is an account of the politics after the fall of the Moghul empire and during the rise of the British presence in India.	2002-04-23
US	40532911	RXX1VKO3OI0ZG	0299174905	886124587	A Duel of Giants: Bismarck, Napoleon III, and the Origins of the Franco-Prussian War	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Franco Chauvinism and Prussian Power	The title of this detailed account of the origin of the FrancoPrussian war in 1870 refers to Louis Napoleon 3, nephew of Napoleon, and Otto Bismarck. The FrancoPrussian  War ended the government of Emperor Louis Napoleon 3 and gave Bismarck the opportunity to unify Germany.  <br />Wetzel begins his book by describing the characters. There is the French Emperor Louis Napoleon and his diplomats Ollivier, Gramont. Their Prussian opponents are chancellor Bismarck, and Kaiser William and their subordinates. Then Wetzel explains the background, the decline of French power and the rising strength of Prussia. We see how Ollivier, Gramont and Empress Eugenie let their passions and nationalist chauvinism blind them to the new weakness of the French army and the growing strength of Prussia<br />Wetzel explains the complicated succession struggle in Spain.  No candidate could hope to win without total permission of France. Wetzel analyzes Bismarck's complex policy toward the succession and France and comes to some non traditional conclusions. <BR>Wetzel follows the actions of Bismarck and Napoleon 3, as well as the actions and mistakes of their individual subordinates. We see the expertise of French diplomats such as Visconti-Venesto and Benedetti. Most of all we see the belligerence of Gramont, who left no mistake untried.<br />This book is not always easy to read, since Wetzel goes into great detail about the actions of all the diplomats involved. Wetzel bases his book on both primary and secondary sources and includes an informative bibliography with notes. This book ends right before the outbreak of the FrancoPrussian war, so there are no discussions of military strategy or tactics.	2002-04-23
US	40532911	RRR2T71B3TLOM	0691055874	602933730	001: Bismarck and the Development of Germany, Volume I: The Period of Unification, 1815-1871	Books	5	13	14	N	N	How Bismarck Unified Germany through Cunning	Otto Pflanze's book describes how Bismarck manipulated domestic and international politics to unify Germany.<BR>This book, ending in 1871 at the end of the first phase of Bismarck's career is the first of three volumes.  The book begins by showing how idealists and romantics tried and failed to unite Germany, but Bismarck was a realist and based his methods on the strengths and weaknesses of individuals.<br />First Bismarck used cunning diplomacy to isolate the Austria, Prussia's rival for control of the German states. The Franco Austrian war demonstrated Austria's weakness, and increased worries among northern Germans about French strength. This improved Prussia's hand, and later Bismarck's hand. <br />Pflanze follows Bismarck's tactics step by step through his labyrinthine maneuvers as he <BR>played France against Austria during the Schleswig Holstein situation Bismarck wanted  to separate Austria from the German confederation and inspire the northern German states to unite into a Northern German confederation.<BR> <BR>After Bismarck unified northern Germany he designed the constitution to allow him to play the Reichstag against the Prussian chamber of deputies. There was also a balance of power between the state and confederate governments. We also see domestic political and economic background to Bismarck's actions. Pflanze shows the domestic politics after Bismarck created the northern German confederation.<br />Bismarck used relations with France to make advances toward the southern German states.  Pflanze carefully shows how Bismarck cleverly tried to use the Luxemburg crisis to woo the southern German states. But the southern German states were afraid of being overwhelmed by Prussia. The only thing that the southern German states admired about the northern German confederation was the Prussian military expertise. <br /> Relations between France and Prussia worsened when the throne of Spain was offered to a Hohenzollern Kaiser William did not care if any of his relatives got the Spanish throne or not. But when Bismarck made it seem that the French had demanded that Kaiser William renounce any attention in the Spanish throne, he angrily refused. The nationalist French responded by declaring war.<br />Bismarck wanted a war with France to inspire the southern Germans to join the northern confederation against the threat of France. In this he succeeded. But nationalist anger of many, and political reasons of Bismarck caused Germany to annex Alsace Lorraine, which resulted in permanent hatred from France.<BR>The only faults of this book are that Pflanze should have described the people more. He also should have included more maps and a bibliography.	2002-03-28
US	40532911	RK8PSB0XES8LG	0802082181	895307539	Charlemagne	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Creation of an Empire	This readable political biography of Charlemagne was written by Roger Collins, whose knowledge of medieval history is evident in the other books he has written on medieval history.<BR>  Collins begins this biography with a discussion of the sources available concerning Charlemagne. Then he discusses the rise of the Carolingians, pointing out the factional infighting indicating that the rise of the Carolingians was not a foregone conclusion.<br />Before Charlemagne's time the Frankish Empire was made of two kingdoms. Charlemagne shared rule of these kingdoms with his brother Carloman. But Charlemagne and his brother Carloman fought each other until Charlemagne won and gained control of all  Francia. Carloman abdicated to become a monk.<br />Charlemagne continued the expansion of Frankish influence over his neighbors begun by his predecessors, only on a greater scale. Collins recounts how Charlemagne continued the invasions of Saxony begun by his ancestors, forcing thousands to convert to Christianity, slaughtering them if they refused. Then Collins tells how Charlemagne invaded the Lombards in Italy like his predecessors. We see how Charlemagne was invited to Spain to help the Moslem governors keep control, and then returned to the Saxons who started causing trouble again. Charlemagne also fought rebellious subjects in Bavaria. He expanded his control into the Balkans where he defeated the Avars. Finally Charlemagne invaded Denmark to control the Danes and managed to influence Byzantine controlled Venice.<br />But military expansion was not Charlemagne's only legacy. Collins demonstrates how  Charlemagne attempted to revive and reform  the spiritual and  intellectual life of the empire. Collins also tells about the reasons and results of Charlemagne's imperial coronation on Christmas day 800, not least gaining the imperial title from the pope, which Charlemagne used with the titles of `King of the Franks', and `King of the Lombards'.<br />This is not a personal biography. Collins only mentions Charlemagne's children or wives when he discusses how Charlemagne divided the Frankish empire. Neither is this a military history, there are no accounts of battles or discussion of weapons.<BR>There are a series of maps to clarify the book and an excellent set of notes and a good bibliography.<BR>All in all Collins has written an excellent account of Charlemagne's life.	2002-03-28
US	40532911	R24462UTEXY419	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	4	20	24	N	N	Prescription for American Foreign Policy	This inciteful book by Joseph Nye explains how international responsibility by the United States is in the best interests of the United States. Nye's book clarifies the future of international relations.<BR> <BR>Nye starts by explaining soft power, the ability to persuade others want to do what you want them, as opposed the hard power, the ability to force others to do what you want them to.  Nye mentions the information revolution, the spread of information further and faster. Nye also talks about globalization, the growing interconnections of the world, and NGOs, Non Governmental Organizations and their relation to soft power.<br />Nye also examines various domestic factors and points out America's problem with converting power into influence. He also mentions popular indifference toward foreign policy which leaves foreign policy to be made by special interest groups which do not have the same interests as the national interest, which is what the citizens, after proper deliberation, say it is.<br />Nye points out that we should not ignore the interest of the international community in favor of purely national interest, and that the two are not necessarily incompatible. <BR>Nye suggests a strategy based on global public needs, and rules of prudence for humanitarian intervention. He also charts a middle path between unilateralism and multilateralism.<br />Nye finishes by quoting a controversial former Secretary of State, \\"The test of history for the United States will be whether we can turn our current predominant power into international consensus and our own principles into widely accepted international norms.\\" The problem is that in the 21st century powerful men and women will be less limited than before.	2002-02-25
US	40532911	R2376E5PMJH8HY	0500051038	973860385	Chronicle of the Maya Kings and Queens: Deciphering the Dynasties of the Ancient Maya	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Kings of the Yucatan	The `Chronicle of the Mayan Kings' is a beautifully illustrated chronicle of the Mayan kings of the poorly known Mayan kingdoms of the Yucatan like Tikal and Copan. The names of the Mayan kings are shown in Mayan hieroglyphs. There are accounts of what we know of the accomplishments of men such as Yik'in Chan Kawil of Tikal and Yukmook Cheen 2 of Calukmal. We see the relations among the Mayan states. There are timelines to make the time periods more clear. Special features describe the complex Mayan calendar and the Mayan number system, which is based on twenty instead of ten.<BR>This book is an excellent account of what little is known about the Mayan states.	2002-02-25
US	40532911	R1O2RDUAZ202C0	0669820083	627932169	Otto Von Bismarck: A Historical Assessment (College)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Views of Bismarck	In this book Hamerow attempts to explain the complexity of Bismarck from a variety of aspects and viewpoints. It is a collection of short articles and extracts from other books written by a group of historians who examine different aspects Bismarck's life and accomplishments from different viewpoints.<br />Some historians like Hajo Holborn discuss Bismarck's early life and influences. Others like William Langer and Eyck discussed his politics and diplomacy. <BR> <BR>But this book is also a group of opinions of historians about Bismarck. There are those like Arnold Meyer who adore Bismarck. Some like Eyck,  who referred to Bismark as the `Subverter of Freedom' despised Bismarck and some like Seton-Watson and Langer simply supply shrewd observations. The result is an excellent thumbnail sketch of Otto von Bismarck.	2002-02-25
US	40532911	RAHE7BOOEDP9B	0500050902	476422628	Chronicle of the Chinese Emperors: The Reign-By-Reign Record of the Rulers of Imperial China	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Emperors of China	The `Chronicle of the Chinese Emperors' by Ann Paludan is an excellent introduction to Chinese history. This book chronologically lists the emperors of China, showing their regnal names in Chinese characters. Paintings show us what the emperors looked like, timelines show when they lived, and there are accounts of the reigns and accomplishments of powerful emperors like Taizung and Shihuangti. Maps show the growth of China and invasions of barbarian tribes. <br />.Features about Chinese history, culture, art and architecture are included. There are histories of the rise and fall of the influence of Buddhism, Taoism, and bureaucracy. The only problem with this book is that it does not delve as deep into Chinese history as <BR>the huge amounts of Chinese source provide.	2002-02-25
US	40532911	RNUHKCP6JTN3P	0253214777	394116347	The Terrorist Trap: America's Experience with Terrorism, Second Edition	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Hostages of Hostage Crises	Jeffrey Simon has written a great deal on terrorism so he is an expert. <BR>He bases this inciteful and readable book on numerous interviews of government officials, former hostages and terrorists giving him a first hand view.<br />Simon tells the history of terrorism in America making several points.  Terrorism is an endless conflict and is bound to grow.  Second the US president plays a key role in the effect of terrorism on the Unites States. Thirdly is the interrelationship between terrorism and technology. <br />Simon begins with the hostage taking by the Barbary pirates. He continues with various hostage taking situations in Algeria, and the hostage situations during Eisenhower's presidency. Here he demonstrates how Eisenhower tried to keep the situation from getting out of hand and educating the public that the situations were different. Then he discusses the many hijacking situations during Kennedy's presidency and the efforts Kennedy went to keep the hijacking situations from overshadowing more important efforts in foreign policy.<br />Simon describes the two hostage situations during Johnson's presidency, in the Congo and the taking of the USS Pueblo. In neither situation, did Johnson take it personal, or let the crisis effect more important things like his foreign policy. <br />During Nixon's presidency the PFLP hijacked four airliners and kept them in the Jordan desert. After releasing some hostages, they blew up the aircraft. Eventually all the hostages were released unharmed. Throughout this hostage episode, Nixon kept calm and did not let the situation effect his foreign policy, even though he definitely did not ignore the situation. <br />Jimmy Carter had several hostage situations, but none was as disastrous for him as the Iran hostage situation, when Iran rebels captured and held American hostages for 444 days. Unlike most situations, not only did the new Iranian government not help regain the hostages, but encouraged the terrorists, using them togain power. Carter made the mistake of allowing the hostage situation to engulf everything he did, keeping it on the minds of the American people the entire time, and illustrating his own weakness.<br />After Reagan was elected he immediately vowed to take a more militant approach to terrorists, but gradually found this public avowed approach to be more difficult than he thought. This was a time of common terrorist activity, especially in Lebanon. <br />Both Carter and Reagan made the mistake of meeting the relatives of hostages. This dragged them emotionally into worrying about the hostages. But only Reagan made deals with terrorists to gain release of hostages, directly opposite of a vow Reagan made earlier. The emotional investment and attempts to make a deal made the terrorists realize the value of what they had and gave them more reason to keep the hostages. Trading for the hostages only made the terrorists take more hostages to gain weapons, so dealing with terrorists was counter productive for the administration.<br />George Bush did not let a Saddam Husseins capture of hostages control his schedule or stop the Gulf War. Bush did not even reschedule his vacation.<br />What do terrorists have against America? Simon points out that with the Soviet Union gone, America is the most powerful country in the world, and the largest symbol and target for alienated people. Especially in the mid East where society has been changed by the west and America is the biggest symbol of the west, and the biggest target .<BR> <BR>Simon discussed some of the types of terrorists, their motives and causes. He mentions ethno-nationalist terrorists who fight either to gain independence or bring their plight to the attention of the world. Rightwing extremists, who want to overthrow a government a replace it with a more fascist government. Left wing revolutionaries like the red brigade or the red army faction who wish to replace the government with a more oppressive government, in hopethat this will incite the population to replace the new government with a Marxist government. Global revolutionaries like the Japanese Red Army Faction who want world revolution. Religious zealots who believe their cause is moral and welcome martyrdom. Animal rights extremists, eco-terrorists and narco-terrorists are also mentioned. We see state sponsored terrorism, which can be attacked by attacking the supporting government.<br />Simon mentions that terrorism will probably increase as sophisticated technology becomes more available, and alienated people who believe they have no other recourse but violence.<br />The main result of Simons book is to bring  some explanations about terrorism.	2002-01-24
US	40532911	R2GIKDU7GF5EZK	0374221871	677688643	Niccolo's Smile : A Biography of Machiavelli	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Perceptive Man at the Death of the Renaissance	Viroli's concise, readable biography of Niccolo Machiavelli describes the violent times he lived in and the diplomatic missions Machiavelli was assigned, and how he achieved them, often in Machiavelli's own perceptive words.<br />When the Medici regained control of Florence, Machiavelli lost his diplomatic post which he carried out so ably. After he lost his position Machiaveli spent his time writing about what he learned from his diplomatic activities and from the past. We also learn about Machiavelli's financial problems and his love affairs.<br /> Viroli's account of Machiavelli's diplomatic activities is detailed and fascinating. But his account of Machiavellis financial and love affairs is not so interesting.<br />Viroli included a chronology of Italian history for background. He also included a few maps, which could have been more detailed.	2002-01-24
US	40532911	R3K4N3I59PBR1K	0500050775	301582603	Chronicle of the Roman Emperors: The Reign-by-Reign Record of the Rulers of Imperial Rome	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Grandeur and Depravity of the Roman Emperors	The `Chronicle of the Roman Emperors' by Chris Scarre tells the chronological history of the emperors of Rome. Photos of busts and coins show us what the emperors looked like. There are timelines to show when they lived, and charts of their lives. Scarre tells us about their accomplishments and excesses, and the times they lived in. We see how they came to the throne, and how they lost their thrones.  We hear what their contemporaries thought of them. Genealogies and maps are also included to clarify events. This is the best chronology of the Roman emperors, not to detailed but not too general.	2002-01-24
US	40532911	R1IZQ381U7V3LV	0060801220	895290259	Bismarck and Modern Germany	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A perceptive summary of Bismarcks career	This detailed and concise book by Medlicott summarizes Bismarck's foreign and domestic policies. Medlicott shows how Bismarck originally had goals but no basic plan to achieve them. By showing not just Bismarck's strategies but his tactics, and his various options we see how Bismarck was able to gain whatever advantage there was in any situation to gain his ends.<br /> At first Bismarck used foreign policy to gain his domestic ends, Prussian dominance over Germany and pushing Austria out of Germany. Later Bismarck used foreign policy only to consolidate Prussian or German strength.<br />Medlicott shows Bismarcks good and bad qualities. Medlicott points out that Bismarck had  \\"Much good sense and very little good will, tremendous determination allied to a wonderful grasp of political possibilities, the sensitiveness but also the objectivity of an artist, a lust for success, the driving force of a nervous system infuriated by personal rebuffs, and  the precious gift of a really good brain...but he was incapable of magnanimity\\" This quote not only describes Bismarck's good and bad qualities but illustrates Medlicott's shrewd grasp of Bismarck. Medlicott also points out the problems in some of the faulty arguments Bismarck's supporters have used.  We also see that while Bismarck often changed directions to achieve his ends, he often left bad feelings and eventually distrust, which eventually hampered him.<br />Unfortunately this book lacks maps, charts or a good bibliography. The great amount of detail makes this book not very readable, but very informative.	2001-12-26
US	40532911	R1ZUDBKIQEO9GQ	0226407071	389488953	Licence for Empire: Colonialism by Treaty in Early America	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Legal Imperialism by One Sided Treaty	In this readable, concise book Dorothy Jones tells the story of relations between the Europeans and the Native Americans before and after the American Revolution. <br />The relations between Europeans and Indians were bound by treaties which were one sided. By treaty Indians gave land and Europeans gave goods and granted rights and privileges in return. But the goods did not last, the grants and privileges were ephemeral, and the land was permanently gone. Thus the tribes like the Iroquois and the Shawnee entered a vicious circle by which they voluntarily gave away their land.<br />This process became more one sided after the Seven Years War, when France and Spain no longer competed with the British. The Native Americans could no longer play one side against the other. The British and the Indians set up a series of treaties controlling the boundaries between their lands. But rivalries among the various tribes destroyed the system of boundaries between the British and Indians lands.<br /> The problems for the Indians worsened after the American Revolution. When the influence of the British declined, and the Indians could only deal with the American government, to their dismay.<br />  The overwhelming power of the American government made the treaties even more one sided. The treaties between the American government and the tribes like the Iroquois and the Shawnees delimited the borders of the Indian lands, but stopped the Indians from buying, selling or renting their remaining land the way they wanted.<br />This book contains a series of maps and charts to help clarify Jones argument.	2001-12-25
US	40532911	R1Y55TU1YPPD3V	0582491355	450641960	The Great Powers and the European States System, 1815-1914	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Maintaining the Stability among the European Great Powers	This small book is a fairly readable and insightful overview of the European states system in the nineteenth century.  This system consisted of the great powers, Britain, Russia, Prussia Austria and France.<br />During the nineteenth century, the great powers struggled to maintain the stability of the states system, in order to maintain the status quo at home. The states used diplomacy to keep conflicts to a minimum to avoid any threat to the survival of the powers. The great powers wanted to prevent the rise of an overly strong or revolutionary power like Napoleonic France, which had almost destroyed them at the beginning of the century. These efforts usually succeeded. <br />The only serious conflicts in Europe during the nineteenth century occurred during the 50s and 60s. We see how the revolutions in Italy changed the status quo. We also see how Bismarck unites the German states under Prussia, radically changing the status quo by defeating Austria. It is obvious that the authors of this book are not fans of Bismarck.<br />Another important goal of the great powers was to keep the declining Ottoman empire from disintegrating with disastrous results. The regular crises between Russia and Austria concerning the weakening Ottoman empire and the rise of the Balkan states were a regular threat to the states system. These problems grew worse when the great powers solidified into two blocks of alliances at the end of the 19th century. In this book we see the contortions the great powers went through to solve these problems. Eventually these combined problems lead to World War 1<br />This book has good maps, a good chronology, and an excellent annotated bibliography to help clarify the complex problems of the great states. To sum up, this book is an excellent, but involved overview of European diplomacy from the Napoleonic wars to the first World War.	2001-12-25
US	40532911	R2VZYYEZF53REC	0393318370	668515458	The Clash: U.S.-Japanese Relations Throughout History	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The rivalry between America and Japan	In this very readable book LaFeber recounts the relations between the United States and Japan since Commodore Perry arrived in Tokyo Bay . <br />LaFeber shows that both Japan and America were very interested in the resources and the potential market of China. This rivalry was more serious for Japan, since Japan had almost no resources of her own. As America and Japan became stronger they jockeyed for access to the markets of China and the resources of Manchuria while Russia and China declined. This eventually led to the attack on Pearl Harbor and the war in the Pacific. <br />After the war America tried and failed to change Japans views of capitalism and democracy or persuade Japan to ignore the China markets and develop her military strength against the now rising Russia and China.<br />LaFeber describes the different political and economy backgrounds of America and Japan to explain the actions, and different views of capitalism and democracy of Japan and America. LaFeber also points out the racism of America and Japan that damaged the relations between them.<br />This book has an excellent bibliography and footnotes so the reader can go beyond the excellent research of LaFeber. There are also a series of maps that make the text easier to understand.	2001-12-12
US	40532911	R1J2ZI79VTN9J8	0394703871	952432599	Bismarck: The Man and Statesman	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A shrewd view of an interesting man and statesman	AJP Taylor has written many excellent books on diplomatic history, so it is not a surprise when this book is overview of the life of the formidable Otto von Bismarck is both readable and displays great understanding. Taylor recounts events of Bismarck's early life, which were the source of his later attitudes. Taylor also describes Bismarck's hobbies, likes and dislikes, along with incidents of his later life.<br />Of course Taylor recounts the professional career of Otto Bismarck. Taylor follows Bismarck's intricate maneuverings in his foreign policy. He explains what Bismarck did and why he did it, and the mistakes Bismarck made. Although Bismarck's methods were not always above board, Taylor makes no moral judgments on Bismarck's actions. <br />We also follow Bismarck's domestic policy, moving from the Liberals to Conservatives, aggression to security and balancing the emperor and the Reichstat, all to enforce his will at all times.<br />Taylor shows that while Bismarck was not a nice or friendly man, he should be judged on the value of his accomplishments, and not on how he achieved those accomplishments.	2001-11-19
US	40532911	R3KXTRFG1GHVFR	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Intolerant Zealots in a maze	Ahmed Rashid is a Pakistani journalist who has spent much time in Afghanistan . He has first hand experience of the land, people and events that he writes about , which he uses to make this  excellent book.<br /> Ahmed Rashid starts by explaining that historically Afghanistan has been the boundary between empires. Afghanistan served as a boundary for the Soviet Union, who invaded Afghanistan to make it a buffer state. After the Soviets were forced to leave Afghanistan, they left a power vacuum which was filled by war lords who brought constant conflict to Afghanistan. To end this warfare, students, talib, in Pakistan began intervening in Afghanistan to bring peace. But these zealots also brought xenophobic intolerance to Afghanistan, oppressing the population they sought to save from corruption and conflict. <br />Rashid also discusses the relationship between the Taliban and their benefactor Osama bin Laden who likes to bankroll anyone who wants to murder westerners. Rashid points out that Bin Laden is not the Islamic scholar or a holy man he claims to be and so has no right to make the many statements he does.<br /> Ahmed Rashid also explains how the Taliban beliefs are not common in Islam. He explains about the various ethnic groups and cultures and beliefs that the Taliban have ruthlessly trampled, in contradiction of Islam. Ahmed also tells how the Taliban came by their violently extremist views<br />Ahmed continues to explain how Afghanistan has often between the route between states.  Currently Afghanistan serves as the route between Pakistan and Turkmenistan, providing trade for Pakistan and a path for pipelines from Turkmenistan. We also see how Afghanistan has served as a major source of opium to support the Taliban. Ahmed shows how the heavy smuggling in Afghanistan is destroying the economies of the states in the area. This includes the huge opium trade that the Taliban supports despite Islams injunction against drug smuggling.	2001-11-15
US	40532911	RPLOIBPLPYW38	0618127380	549805854	The Italian Renaissance	Books	4	84	85	N	N	An introduction to a magnificent time	Plumb's book is a very readable introduction to the Renaissance. He begins by explaining how civilization collapsed after the fall of Rome. But the Renaissance grew from the increases in population, trade and the flow of ideas.  Italy was a land of cities instead of feudalism, able to make good use of trade to gain great power. The increase of trade brought power to the merchants and guilds instead of the nobility. Trade and power brought money to support an explosion of the arts and finance the flow of ideas, especially from the past.<br /> Plumb describes the histories of some of the cities of Italy. In one chapter he describes the intricate diplomacy of Milan. In other chapters he describes the commerce of Venice and the trade of Florence. We see the brilliance of artists and dissipation of rulers. Plumb describes how the new learning, the new way of seeing the world, spread across Europe.<br /> However, Plumb only wrote half of the book. The second half contains a series of biographies of great artists and rulers of the Renaissance, written by different authors. There are short biographies of artists such as Michelangelo, and  Leonardo da Vinci: rulers such as Lorenzo de Medici and Doge Foscari, and authors such as Petrarch and Machiavelli. This book is a tour de force introduction to the magnificent Renaissance.	2001-11-15
US	40532911	R2E9RU711V2EUC	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	4	17	21	N	N	An almost invisible foreign policy	Halberstam expertly chronicles American foreign policy after the fall of the Soviet Union. He starts with the end of the cold war under Bush senior, when the cold war ended, America no longer wanted to worry about foreign policy. Unfortunately President Bush did not realize this. Bush and his people ran his election campaign poorly and lost to Clinton. <BR>        Clinton believed that he could ignore foreign policy. He had no interest in it and he ended up with the wrong though very capable people, in the wrong places. Clinton did  not specify goals or methods. He did not give any direction to his subordinates until the new administration realized that foreign policy could effect the all important image of the administration.<BR>        Halberstam explores in depth what happened when some people wanted to  intervene against Serbia and the President did not want to.  He details the decisions and relations between the people who made the decisions. He also describes the people and their background, explaining why the people made the decisions they did. Halberstam also spends some time discussing the disaster in Somalia and the events in Haiti.<BR>        Halberstam's book is a veritable who's who of Clinton's administration. He describes the strengths and faults of many people, some barely known in Bush administration as well as Clinton's , without favoritism to either party. Halberstam lauds Republicans such as Colin Powell as well as Democrats such as Bentsen.  Halberstam's descriptions of the individuals does get a bit tedious at times, but it always is informative.	2001-11-06
US	40532911	RO0IA5HF3PD0A	0674006720	288929585	American Tragedy: Kennedy, Johnson, and the Origins of the Vietnam War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A detailed account of the US entry into Vietnam	David Kaiser has accessed newly released documents to write an excellent book. He has chronologed the day by day decisions and opinions of the men at the upper levels of the government that led America into the Vietnam War.  We see how Eisenhower's men wanted to commit troops to stop the expansion of communism in Southeast Asia, especially in Laos. Then we see how Kennedy's people continued these policies, while Kennedy reigned them in and wanted to move more carefully. <BR>        Kaiser shows us the different agendas.  How Diem did not want to use his troops against the Viet Cong, but rather to keep him in power. Diem refused to give any of his military officers enough power to fight the Viet Cong for fear they would plot a coup. He only gave his officers enough force to show the governments strength, keeping Diem and his family in power. <BR>        After Kennedy was assassinated Lyndon Johnson inherited Kennedy's advisors, but did not keep a reign on them, so the government made commitments to send  troops into Vietnam. Even after Diems death, the Vietnamese only wanted to continue their troops in their power plays instead of fighting the Viet Cong. McNamara and Rusk continued to lead us into war and Lyndon Johnson agreed with them. Ball continuously tried to slow the slide to commitment down, but Johnson and his advisors ignored him.  <BR>        Kaiser argues that the opinions each man held depended on when he was born. He explains that some were born, and grew up during the 30s and 40s during what he calls the GI generation. Because of this they believed that the United States could achieve anything. Kaiser also points out that the arrival of World War 2 also affected their opinions. Rusk devoutly believed that we had to stop the communists in Vietnam, or there would be another World War. Johnson also held this all or nothing viewpoint. Kennedy on the other hand held a more sophisticated view, placing Vietnam behind other problems, unlike Johnson.  <BR>Kaiser shows how Johnson and his advisors refused to negotiate with North Vietnam unless North Vietnam gave us everything we asked for first. An unlikely event. Eventually Johnson and others lied about the problems to keep the commitments increasing. Johnson also tended to ignore other foreign policy problems.<BR>        Kaiser's writing usually moves easily so it is not as hard to read as it might have been, given the complexity and detail of the subject matter.	2001-11-06
US	40532911	R58AC8YV9MHKT	0393002357	481599312	Bismarck and the German Empire	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A perceptive view of a formidable man	Erich Eyck has written a history of the political career of Otto von Bismarck , explaining how Bismarck united the loose collection of weak German states during the mid 1800s by skillfully manipulating international relations and domestic politics. We see how Bismarck recklessly used his understanding of the desires and weaknesses of those around him. This perceptive understanding rarely failed Bismarck.<br /> Erich Eyck tells only enough of Bismarck's early life to display his self confidence. Eyck tells how in his early life Bismarck declined to work in the Prussian government, because, as Bismarck explains, \\"The Prussian official is like a member in an orchestra, but I want play only the music which I myself like, or no music at all.\\" Eventually Bismarck got the chance to play the music he wanted to play, even if no one else but the king wanted to hear it.<BR> Bismarck became the preeminent individual in international politics. Bismarck was also the master of German domestic politics, manipulating the various parties for his own ends. Eventually no one in Europe would dare leave Bismarck out of their calculations. But Bismarck finally wore out his welcome when the times he had created changed and he did not change with them. <BR>Bismarck had gaps in his understanding. Bismarck could not understand anything he could not control or manipulate. He could not understand economics. He could not understand that someone could act from purely altruistic reasons, what he called humanitarian rubbish.<BR>Erich Eyck writing contains much shrewd analysis, although this makes his writing as labyrinthine as Bismarck's tactics.	2001-11-06
