US	40581989	R3GNMWWFU8E7NI	0767916352	551679029	Hollywood: The Movie Lover's Guide: The Ultimate Insider Tour of Movie L.A.	Books	4	10	13	N	N	An Updated Version Of One Of My Favorites	In the late '80's, I went into Dutton's in Manhattan and found this book as well as its companion piece: New York: The Movie Lover's Guide. Both books got quite a workout on my travels to both coasts and showed a lot of wear including crayon marks from the kids. I often wished I had extra copies of both to pass on to my movie crazy friends. Fast forward 20 years. The kids are out of the house and a new and improved version of both books are available at the bookstore. What makes this book particularly endearing is that it doesn't focus on a particular era of film making/celebrity......it covers it all! Whether you are interested in knowing where Laurel and Hardy filmed THE MUSIC BOX or where Howard Hughes maintained his LA offices, it's all here. This is a great book for the merely curious or the die hard movie fanatic and definitely a must-have for the armchair traveler.	2005-07-29
US	40581989	R19N9FT60UK5LM	081312249X	798134241	Silent Players: A Biographical and Autobiographical Study of 100 Silent Film Actors and Actresses	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Insightful profiles of the obsure and famous	I found this book extremely interesting. Mr. Slade profiled a large number of silent actors ranging from the obscure (the queen of the extras Bess Flowers) to the semi-famous (the delightful Mary Brian who did successfully transition into the talkies) to the famous (Valentino and Harold Lloyd).<br />What did I specifically like about this book? Slide provided mini-critiques of his subjects acting abilities. Since many, if not most, of their films are not readily accessible I found this helpful in understanding why many of his subjects were unable to move into the talkies successfully.<br />Mr.Slide and his partner Robert Gitt knew a great many of the actors covered. A.S. provided his insights regarding their personal quirks as well as personalities. This was delightful! One particularly amusing profile was that of Jetta Goudal who appears to have over-inflated opinion of her acting abilities and prominence within the film community. Goudal could have been the prototype for the Norma Desmond character in Sunset Blvd.<br />If you have an interest in cinema and know little about silent film, I believe this will stir your interest.<br />A.S. is a gifted writer and a compelling story teller.	2005-05-16
US	40581989	R12F1D2K1TYWID	0743204816	324172353	Lion of Hollywood: The Life and Legend of Louis B. Mayer	Books	5	47	47	N	Y	Another Great Book By Scott Eyman	I was anxiously awaiting the publication of this book, and it was well worth the wait. Finally a book about the much maligned Louis B. Mayer that is balanced and objective.<br /><br />While the book primarily is devoted to telling the story of how Mayer went from dealing in scrap metal to running the classiest movie studio in Hollywood (o.k., Culver City) and then describing Mayer's eventual fall from grace, a wide cast of characters fills out Mayer's story. This book relates commonly circulated stories as well as some new ones. However, Eyman meticulously has researched his subject and allows his readers to draw their own conclusions by evaluating the validity of some of these stories which would be considered questionable.<br /><br />Eyman also provides his reader with an exacting description of the dynamics that came into play while Mayer was running a large movie studio as well as the dynamics within his own family.<br /><br />The list of those people Eyman interviewed while writing this book is mind-boggling. Many of his interviewees have died since he began this book which makes a lot of the information provided in this book even more significant.<br /><br />This book was long overdue and I am glad the author took this project on while there were still enough people alive who could provide first hand information about the subject.<br /><br />I am hoping that I don't have to wait too long for Mr. Eyman's next book.	2005-04-21
US	40581989	RWH8HAZ5X1LI6	0786714751	655434253	The Leading Men of MGM	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An Interesting Take On The Men of MGM	If you've heard all the tawdry stories about how the MGM machine covered for its male stars, STOP READING THIS REVIEW as you've probably heard it all before. I gave this book a *** rating because I enjoyed it, but I've processed this information before and it didn't really put a new spin on anything for me.<br /><br />However, if this is unexplored territory for you, this book is the ticket as it provides insights into the personal lives of the  great male stars from the golden age of Hollywood. It also provides a view of to what lengths the studios would go to protect the images of their 'assets' in the good old days when the star system was in place and the studios owned their talent.<br /><br />The juiciest 'star' exposed in this book? Probably Van Johnson. And I think the reason is that Johnson's story is relatively fresh due to the fact that Johnson is probably the only person discussed in this book (excluding Mickey Rooney) that is still living.<br /><br />The most fascinating thing about this book is that it takes the reader back to a place in time when studios could really bury and even obliterate negative publicity and create a fantasy world that is stranger than anything in those great old MGM movies.	2005-03-09
US	40581989	R3J6PVA0DBWND8	0060838574	229727476	Blood Brother: 33 Reasons My Brother Scott Peterson Is Guilty	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Truth really is stranger than fiction	As another reviewer pointed out when reviewing this book, the author has the unique perspective of being able to observe Scott Peterson and the Peterson clan before Laci's death and after Laci's death. That is why this is one of the best books written about the Peterson case because it goes beyond the public side that we spent watching on tv. Anne Bird presented a point of view that no other Peterson insider could or would dare to make.<br /><br />Her personal story was compelling as were the 33 reasons why she thought Scott Peterson was guilty. Bird even provided a theory as to how Scott Peterson murdered Laci and that made as much or more sense as any other theory put forth regarding a bloodless crime.<br /><br />As interesting as her observations regarding Scott's continual lying and odd behavior were, Bird also provided some insight as to just how much in denial her Peterson relatives were and how many half-truths and outright lies were offered by Jackie Peterson.<br /><br />After I finished this book, I came up with my own list of insights:<br /><br />1. I have absolutely no lingering doubt when it comes to Scooter. He is where he should be.<br /><br />2. Scooter's mother Jackie is as much as a sociopath as he is, which begs the question do sociopaths raise sociopaths.<br /><br />3. Anne Bird is one lucky lady to have a super adoptive family and the only thing she has to be grateful to Jackie Peterson for is that she gave her up at birth.<br /><br />4. Anne Bird shouldn't beat herself up too much about trying to believe in Scott. Sociopaths are really hard to spot.<br /><br />This is really a great book for any observer of the Peterson trial to read. I couldn't put it down and read it from cover to cover.	2005-03-08
US	40581989	R1KFILYKVZSQAG	1594630100	912161000	My Boyfriend's Back	Books	4	18	19	N	N	When Harry Met Sally Part 2 Etc.	I was initially attracted to this book because I'm a hopeless romantic. I've always considered Donna Hanover a very intelligent and charismatic personality and found the whole idea of her reconnecting with her first love life affirming. I wanted to know more.<br /><br />While this book does address her rekindled romance and subsequent marriage, her purpose in writing this book appears to be a primer for those people who have considered reconnecting and a great read for all of the hopeless romantics out there. While the case studies she presents chronicle the positives and negatives of first love renewed and places them in a sociological framework, the real hook here are the stories<br /><br />themselves.<br /><br />For the most part this is a feel good book. It is hopeful and positive and it is a great contrast to the cynacism<br /><br />and negativity is a part of modern life.<br /><br />If you loved When Harry Met Sally, you'll love this book. It abounds with happy (or at least hopeful) endings, and absolutely does not rehash the Rudy Giuliani thing.	2005-01-27
US	40581989	R3LG4EXDB7YUIW	0786420278	398868901	The Fixers: Eddie Mannix, Howard Strickling and the MGM Publicity Machine	Books	5	8	20	N	Y	If This Were Baseball, This Would Be A Home Run	I was anxiously awaiting the arrival of this book and was not disappointed.<br /><br />The \\"FIXERS\\" were two notorious executives at MGM during its heyday named Eddie Mannix and Howard Strickling. While they have often been referred to in many celeb bios and books about the movies, it has often been difficult to pin down what their primary function was within the MGM corporate organization. Over the years, it has often been alluded that they 'fixed' things (i.e., usually scandals involving MGM's talent). However, no one source had ever cited the extent of their involvement in covering up situations which might prove catasrophic had they been publicly revealed. THE FIXERS resolves that gap with great clarity and detail.<br /><br />The book itself is grounded in reality, but manages to take on an almost fictional persona interweaving fact in an intimate and slightly gossipy manner. The author establishes a backdrop for the story by detailing how the movie industry came to be and describing with precision the main players as well as the dynamics which existed within the studio system. Once the ground rules are established, Fleming takes off and discusses the scandals that Mannix and Strickling handled over the 40+ year period they were employed by MGM as well as their 'methods' used. The individual stories range from the well-known such as Judy Garland's drug addiction to the more veiled ones like Paul Bern's \\"suicide\\". Fleming even goes so far as detailing the real facts behind comedian Ted Healy's death which have been obliterated over the 60+ years since his death. And this constitutes just the tip of the iceberg. Fleming's only ground rule for all of this is that he does not relate any stories that he was not able to verify via reputable multiple sources.<br /><br />I'm not going to cloud my assessment of this book with more details and run the risk of taking away from the pleasure of reading this book. However, when I finally put this book down I started thinking that this would make a fantastic mini-series on tv or a full length feature in the movies because truth is stranger than fiction.that this would make a fantastic mini-series on tv or a full length feature in the movies because truth is stranger than fiction.	2004-12-22
US	40581989	R2E66X8M5T86A5	1891661310	929387245	James Dean Died Here: The Locations of America's Pop Culture Landmarks	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Who would have ever guessed?	Admittedly one of my favorite activities centers around checking out bizarre landmarks: cemeteries, death sites, scandal sites. I was passively checking out the general travel section at the local mega bookstore when I came across this goodie. The title got me hooked. I knew this was something I was just going to love and I wasn't disappointed.<br /><br />This book covers the range of 'unusual' tourist attractions. Many involve long forgotten stories that hit the front pages years ago and are but faded memories and some of the stories involve incidences that I honestly would have never thought about. Regardless of whether I had past knowledge of some of these places or if they were new to me, I learned a lot from Mr. Epting's entertaining narratives. And of course, knowledge usually prompts more questions.<br /><br />One of the neatest aspects of this book is that it is not geographically restricted to one area nor does it devote itself to one rigid classification (i.e., celebrity death, scandals).<br /><br />And while this book seems to cover virtually everything, its companion book Marilyn Monroe Dyed Here (which refers to a beauty shop MM frequented in the '40's) dishes out even more.<br /><br />And if you are wondering, I have also checked out some of these places.	2004-10-30
US	40581989	R31M2YY4Z0AXEG	078641863X	355644230	The Movieland Directory: Nearly 30,000 Addresses of Celebrity Homes, Film Locations and Historical Sites in the Los Angeles Area, 1900-Present	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Incredible, just incredible!	I envision E.J. Fleming huddled over a pc reviewing census information and entering data in a database and cross checking it against his formidable stacks of notebooks. E.J. is tired, tired, tired. He has worked day and night so I don't have to. Stop, I'm just kidding but this is an incredible collection of information. I am in total awe re: how someone could collect so much data, collate it, and present it in an easily accessible manner.<br /><br />This directory is exactly what is implied. It is an enormous collection of addresses relating to celebrity homes, film locations, historical sites.......and here's the kicker.....the locations of scandals and crimes. That having been said, this is not a rolling narrative that relates a lot of juicy stories and histories. It presents the facts and it is up to the user to draw in the lines and reach his/her own conclusions.<br /><br />So why did I drop $75 for this book. I was weary doing this type of research with only lukewarm results and a relatively miniscule database. This book has everything and I can let my fingers do the walking.<br /><br />Now here is my warning. I reiterate don't buy this if you are expecting a lot of lurid stories as there really aren't any per se. However, buy this book if you want to know things like all the places Humphrey Bogart resided in LA, who cohabitated with Ramon Novarro, or where Laurel and Hardy filmed a lot of their classic shorts. Buy this book if you have a curious mind and the information provided has you asking other questions.<br /><br />This is an impressive collection of information.	2004-09-20
US	40581989	R29FOMGK1E9YH6	0966803051	353908122	The Secret Life of Humphrey Bogart: The Early Years (1899-1931)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Formula For Compelling Trash	As a biographical account of Bogart's early life and Hollywood adventures, I'd probaqbly give this one one or two stars. As a work of fiction, blending some truth with an awful lot of fantasy this tome goes way up in the star system. It's terrific trash replete with extended conversations that the author or his longtime companion could not have been privy to. If this book were catergorized as fiction, I'd probably give it 5 stars. The problem: this book isn't being pedaled as fiction.<br />I did a little research re: some of the supporting players in this book after I read it and came to the conclusion that most of this stuff was based on rumor and innuendo and there was very little fact supporting any of it. The author was artful when it came down to mixing moldy gossip, tossing in some ambiguous statements that have been floating around for decades, and calling this TRUTH.<br />It bothers me that people will pick up this book and believe that this is factual. Of course, the argument waged here is that all the people portrayed unfavorably have been dead for a really long time. After all, the dead can't sue you. And that is exactly why this book isn't being touted as fiction. Who is going to legally stalk Darwin Porter?<br />So read this book if you are so inclined, but rememember that an awful lot of it is fantasy. It's fun trash that's being categorized as something else entirely.	2004-01-26
US	40581989	R2SGDS6I7KVLCP	1581823703	936321966	Dishing Hollywood: The Real Scoop on Tinseltown's Most Notorious Scandals	Books	5	48	54	N	N	Whatta Dish! A Collection of Hollywood Scandals Du Jour	I fortuitously fell into this little gem the day after xmas.....a belated &quot;BEST&quot; present to myself.<br />While I already own Jacobson's two other books and hold her in high regard, this book proves that she is only getting better as a film historian and writer.<br />She assumes a slick, quasi-cinema noir persona in her narrative and mixes in a Sandra Lee-like easy 'recipe' that takes a not too subtle slam at each of the scandals/stories she relates. The vanity of the 'dish' (aka scandal/tragedy/hard luck story)  only enhances the general readability of this book. This is a novel approach that makes an already interesting product even more appealing. I kept thinking that the author did a terrific job with the material she was presenting.<br />Aside from the kidding around, this book is really rather fair and factual. The author knows her stuff and relies on knowledgeable sources to substantiate or refute claims made in the book.<br />My only criticism of this book is that I wish it had been longer and had covered some other stories that I find interesting and want to know more about. Hopefully there will be a follow-up to this book which will do that.<br />Anyway, this is a very good read and worth the $ and time spent reading it.	2004-01-20
US	40581989	R2CI7687SCUIR7	0060194286	721886905	Edith Head: The Life and Times of Hollywood's Celebrated Costume Designer	Books	5	4	7	N	N	FINALLY, THE REAL EDITH HEAD IS GOING TO MY HEAD	Edith Head has got to one of the most celebrated fashion designers that ever came out of Hollywood. She also is one of the most ambiguous. Her general secrecy as well has her revisionist personal autobiography has had a lot of people wondering who this lady actually was.<br />The author has managed to get a fairly clear picture of his subject. He also has managed to uncover a lot of truths and facts regarding her own personal history and has come up with a very interesting story here. It doesn't hurt that David Chierichetti happened to know Edith Head fairly well at the end of her life.<br />If you are into celebrity biographies, you will find this book not only interesting for its own merits but well-written and crafted by the author who proves to be a very good researcher and writer.<br />I have long enjoyed David Chierichetti's articles in the periodicals Classic Images and Films of the Golden Age. I am glad to see that his talents have translated well when tackling a book format.<br />Bravo, David! Keep up the good work. I am waiting for the next book! This is definitely one of the best books published in 2003.	2003-05-13
US	40581989	R3T7CHNWRVWASV	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	7	9	N	N	RIGHT IN MY OWN BACKYARD!	Over the years I've read small articles regarding the activities of H.H. Holmes. I have also read many accounts of the world fairs held in Chicago. This book is fascinating because it shows the very dark side of the activities of a serial killer and pits it against the construction of a larger than life mini city.<br />The descriptions of the fair are lush and extravagant. The details of Holmes atrocities are dark and putrid. When blended together, the stories are both intertwined with one another and are most engrossing.<br />I've lived in Chicago my entire life, but this book presents a world and a time that seems very far removed from what I know as 'home'.	2003-05-01
US	40581989	R30PZ1STATU1AE	0312282311	879378123	Beyond Paradise: The Life of Ramon Novarro	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ramon Finally Gets His Due	After 30+ years in his grave, it is truly nice to see Ramon Novarro remembered as the great actor that he was and not just someone who met an unfortunate and untimely death at the hands of two male hustlers.<br />Soares has done an excellent job of researching his subject and has painted a picture of a truly talented person who also happened to also be a very decent human being. The author has managed to dump the lurid stories and produce a balanced portrait of this man.<br />This is a very interesting and detailed biography. It will leave you with the impression that you really have a good idea who Novarro was and will provide you with a greater appreciation for his work.<br />Thumbs up to Mr. Soares for his work as a researcher/biographer. He did a wonderful job and didn't take any shortcuts.	2003-05-01
US	40581989	R1G1H520TXOI42	1401351956	209402597	Pointing From the Grave: A True Story of Murder and DNA	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Truth Can Be Stranger Than Fiction	I walked into this one knowing the outcome and essential facts. This case had been covered on either Unsolved Mysteries or one of the many forensic shows available through cable tv and I was immediately familiar with it.<br />The pleasant surprise was the book's essential structure and Ms. Weinberg's writing style. This was a true story that in many ways was written like a great crime novel. Her cast of characters had well developed personalities. Her research was meticulous. She was able to build a level of suspense when her reader already knew where she was going. Weinberg managed to maintain a level of objectivity and even a level of sympathy for the perpetrator while managing to be mindful that this person wasn't innocent.<br />As for my own reaction to this story, I became almost immediately hooked. There was almost a creepy aspect here as I had stayed at a hotel no more than 2 blocks from the scene of the crime last October. Her descriptions were so intensely visual that I almost felt like I was in Del Mar witnessing the crime scene first hand. I kept thinking that this all seemed so surreal. On a certain level I kept thinking the title could have been Murder In Paradise.<br />This book was researched very thorougly and many people who were involved closely to the victim, perpetrator, or the investigations conducted were interviewed at length.<br />Of course, as the title implies, the victim was indirectly responsible for nailing her murderer 15 years after the fact. While there is a certain irony in that, by no means is that the whole story.<br />I read this book in slightly over 3 hours. Usually I don't speed read when I'm reading for pleasure, but it was so compelling I just couldn't wait to move forward.<br />Be forwarned that I only review books that I really like or really detest. I absolutely loved this one.	2003-04-30
US	40581989	RBZYNYQ14OQCN	0374282390	197199449	Dark Lover: The Life and Death of Rudolph Valentino	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Leider Has A Few Tricks Up Her Sleeve	I have read so many books on Rudy Valentino that my first instinct was to pass on this. I was sure no one could do much with the life of an actor who has been dead nearly 77 years. Fool that I am, I figured I'd give it a cursory look/see and probably put it down in quick order and move on to better things.<br />The shocker here is that this is really one of the best biographies I've picked up in a very long time and it has as much to do with the writer/researcher as it does with the subject itself.<br />This is no rehash of the same tired Rudy V. stories that have been perpetuated since his death. It contains a lot of fresh material and new insights into the personality and public persona of Valentino.<br />Leider is the rare combination of gifted biographer and tireless researcher. In the process of writing this book, she managed to really get down to the bare bones of her subject. She managed to do this while creating a mood and setting for all the action. In other words, she seemed to really understand the environment under which Valentino and all the other early screen stars worked and flourished in.<br />Where as other Valentino biographers seem to spit out questionable or unsubstantiated \\"facts\\", Ms. Leider to the best of her ability deals honestly with the material given her and attempts to authenticate information to the best of her ability and she deals honestly with rumors and innuendos and labels them as such.<br />One aspect of Leider's research that I found particularly interesting is that she not only researched her subject, but also the secondary players who interacted with Valentino during his life. She developed full profiles of people such as Pola Negri, Natacha Rambova, George Ullman......people who interacted with Valentino and were important components in the story of his life.<br />I am a huge fan of Jean Harlow and Clara Bow's biographer David Steen. Now Emily Leider also has my admiration. She and Steen have set a standard for celebrity biographers to follow.aphers to follow.	2003-04-26
US	40581989	RUW3EAM5OHWPF	0446679828	220090698	The Sopranos (SM): Selected Scripts from Three Seasons	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Very Interesting	I bought this for my son because he is a huge Sopranos fan. However, I snatched it away from him and had a great time reviewing the scripts.<br />When you watch the show, the dialogue is often lost or ignored because the viewer tends to be caught up in the action. By having a script handy, you get a chance to analyze the writing style. While the plots have a great deal to do with the show's ultimate popularity, the crisp and effective dialogue which remains true to each character's development is equally important.<br />If you are interested in learning how to write for tv or movies, the scripts are great to analyze.	2003-04-26
US	40581989	R8H0FFFYY5UD8	006018518X	428085060	Cemetery Stories: Haunted Graveyards, Embalming Secrets, and the Life of a Corpse After Death	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	GRRRR! Let's Get Realistic About This Book!	I didn't expect this book to give me a play by play description of how to embalm a body or cremate a corpse. I also didn't expect this to be an extension of Jessica Mitford's rip on the funeral industry. I didn't expect this to be an unending series of ghost stories. I expected random stories that delved into the often strange and sometimes humorous happenings that occur in funeral homes and cemeteries. I expected to hear stories that have their roots in what is commonly called &quot;gallows humor&quot;. And I got exactly what I expected.<br />Some of the stories were short and moderately interesting, some had me guessing such as who the actress is who is buried in a pet cemetery by her pooch (and not by her husband). A few had me cringeing such as the thought of a less than professional embalmer wielding a wanton trocar like a headhunter jabbing a spear around. Some stories even had me laughing. And one story even featured the ever quirky and wonderful Shelley Winters.<br />The best part of this book was that it kept me reading. I took it to the health club and pumped away on a health cycle and read, read, read. I couldn't put the darn thing down. After I finished reading it, the book made it through my small circle of friends. Five people out of five gave it high marks.	2003-04-26
US	40581989	R3HWDYO2OG97IV	1579122876	38535299	Where Are They Buried?: How Did They Die? Fitting Ends and Final Resting Places of the Famous, Infamous, and Noteworthy	Books	5	68	72	N	N	Whatta Deal/A BIG BANG FOR AN INEXPENSIVE BOOK	This book attempts to go where many others have gone before and manages to do a very good job... for a good quality hardcover book. It contains the locations of approximately 500 celebrity graves and is just a lot of fun.<br />The book is arranged by type of celebrity (sports figures, singers, authors, etc.). For each personality the author Tod Benoit provides a date of birth and death, a lengthy biography which summarizes pertinent facts concerning his subject's life, the manner in which his subject died, the burial location and/or the method of disposal, instructions as to how to find the cemetery using main highways and local streets, and explicit instructions for finding gravesites.<br />Aside from being just packed with good info, Tod Benoit has a wonderfully wry sense of humor which is good because it takes a lot of the sting out of a grim subject like death. I particularly enjoyed his take on finding grave locations at Forest Lawn in Glendale CA and his not-too-subtle suggestions for averting cemetery security. This man is hysterical!<br />Another very enjoyable section could have been subtitled \\"Tod's Practical And Sometimes Whacky Methods Used To Get Information\\". Odd as my subtitle sounds, the author's suggestions are quite inventive and I applaud him for his overall creativity. In truth, I can really see them being quite effective. This is probably because I've tried some, and will try the ones I haven't.<br />At the date of publication, all the information provided regarding grave locations was correct with the exception of Lucille Ball who was recently moved to a cemetery in Jamestown NY. There were a few biographical errors which I caught, but nothing that would interfer with the general pleasure I derived from this book.<br />Now please buy this book, so he'll write another one. It is that good.	2003-04-23
US	40581989	R2OSSTQRA5ADQX	0312291256	608832904	Hollywoodland: Rich and Lively History About Hollywood's Grandest Era	Books	5	2	4	N	N	SOME NEW SPINS TO OLD LA STORIES	David Wallace is an extremely gifted writer and I am becoming a fan. While I am familiar with a lot of the material covered in this book, I couldn't help myself and just couldn't put it down. Even the familiar stories had a fresh feel and there were aspects to a lot of the stories which I was completely unaware of.<br />Wallace has managed to carefully research his topics and provide a lot of information for his readers. One of the more interesting cases in point was his examination of the Doheney murder/suicide (?) and its implications in regard to the Teapot Dome scandal.<br />Even with the dubious title of HOLLYWOODLAND which sounds like a cross between a scandal rag and a land development scheme (which in fact it was when originally used in the '20's to sell real estate in the Beechwood Canyon area), this book is an incredible combination of fact and urban legend.<br />This is a very nifty book and I thoroughly enjoyed myself! What makes Hollywoodland such a compelling read is the manner in which the writer has chosen to handle and develop his material. David Wallace's way with a good story is what makes this book a standout for me.	2003-03-14
US	40581989	R29XUE20PY5P1W	0802131433	232426676	The Death of James Dean	Books	4	8	9	N	N	An Interesting Twist To Dean's Last Ride	I read this book when it first was published, so I am obviously not in the best position to critique it at least a couple years later. However, when it comes to James Dean I am an admitted addict and have read almost everything that has been published about him over the past 30 years. What makes this book a standout is that it concentrates on Dean's death as opposed to his life. It provides very detailed information re: his last ride and how his death and the subsequent hoopla surrounding it  was handled. It also provides quite a lot of previously unpublished material in regard to the period immediately before and after his death. The author has saved us all a lot of pain and irritation by researching this material in a factual and precise manner.<br />What makes this book a positive departure from the other Dean book is that there is no psychological stuff about Dean's tortured youth or attempts to affix a death wish to him, just a lot of good hard facts. Joe Friday couldn't do a better job in that area.<br />The best part of this book? It sticks to the truth and makes for an interesting read.	2003-03-14
US	40581989	R138UAHIIH4TVF	0762708255	552758235	Connecticut Curiosities: Quirky Characters, Roadside Oddities & Other Offbeat Stuff (Curiosities Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	I LOVE BOOKS LIKE THIS ONE	Whether I am at home or on the road, books like this one provide this traveller with a lot to do without having to go very far. Personally, I view Connecticut as one of those often overlooked states which gets unfairly dissed because of its close proximity to NYC.<br />In my case, I was abandoned by my husband who was attending a business conference. I wandered into a book store and found this little gem in the local interest section. On the way to Mystic Seaport, I checked out a few locations. Had a lot of fun and enjoyed myself thoroughly. My only regret was that I didn't have more time to cover all the locations cited in this book. However, even that was o.k. because I now have the impetus to return and check out other interesting places.<br />Travel books like these are a real treat for locals as well as visitors because they educate and also provide a sense of familiarity to often strange and/or unfamiliar places. They provide a different way of looking at a specific state or region.	2003-03-14
US	40581989	R1PFJ6T4711P7Q	031226206X	547888744	Robert Mitchum: "Baby I Don't Care"	Books	4	6	6	N	N	If You Like Mitchum, You'll Like This Book	As a Mitchum fan, I got a lot out of this book. I enjoyed the anecdotes that the author included because they really imparted a strong sense of who Mitchum was. And of course in many ways his screen persona wasn't a whole lot different than the man himself.<br />On a personal level, I've heard a lot of Mitchum stories from local people in my area. Mitchum visited here quite a bit in the '60's as he had a local friend who raised quarter horses. He became a commonly seen fixture in a lot of local bars and restaurants and was known for being quite a hell raiser. So everything I heard was only confirmed many times over in this book in one way or another.<br />While Mitchum appeared to be one tough guy in the movies, I think the private Mitchum was a lot more interesting. What is even more amazing is that death seemed to be the only thing that slowed this man down.<br />The title is a good one in that it seems to say it all. Mitchum did exactly what he wanted to do and he followed his own drummer.	2002-11-12
US	40581989	R2KY70UYF5KRZX	1578062101	895463896	Alice Faye: A Life Beyond the Silver Screen (Hollywood Legends Series)	Books	4	39	40	N	N	Finally A Book About Alice Faye	I was absolutely delighted to see that someone finally took the time to write a book about this lovely lady. Alice Faye was one of the best performers to come out of 20th Century Fox and this book is a long overdue profile of her career as well as a revealing study of her life.<br />Written with the full cooperation of her daughters Alice and Phyllis, it is surprisingly objective and isn't one of those saccharine biographies often authorized by family members after a person's death. It presents an interesting portrait of Faye. There is the public Alice who was seemingly very accessible to her fans. The private Alice is a woman with a bitingly sarcastic sense of humor who could be a warm and caring friend, but always sort of held back and had few intimate friends.<br />What I found most interesting was some of the things discussed in the book such as her relationship with Rudy Vallee (where they ever romatically involved?), her interesting yet enduring marriage to Phil Harris (a strange dynamic here, but it worked), her reticence to discuss family history with her kids.....all these elements made her seem a lot more interesting than what appeared on the surface.<br />While I can't say that this book answers all the questions surrounding Alice Faye, it certainly has made a solid attempt to try to present the facts that are known and letting the reader draw his/her own conclusions.	2002-11-12
US	40581989	RRXC6CM19P7UO	0762723378	65283262	Where the Bodies Are: Final Visits to the Rich, Famous, & Interesting	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A Cross Country Grave Hunting Extravaganza	I read this book from cover to cover last night and thoroughly enjoyed it. I will also add that I am already familiar with most of the information covered in this book and I still enjoyed it. I gravehunt for a hobby which is basically as good as saying I've never seen a cemetery I didn't like. Heck, I even waste entire vacations hopping from one cemetery to another. That having been said, here is the scoop on this book.<br />This is not a guide for gravehunters per se. It does not provide precise instructions as to where all identified personalities are buried. It also does not contain comprehensive listings of all permanent residents of interest buried in the cemeteries included.<br />What this book does do is highlight the best cemeteries in the continental United States. It provides the addresses for these cemeteries, their hours of operation, good information regarding the safety of the areas being visited, and a thumbnail history of each cemetery selected for inclusion. It also may contain a general list of celebrities interred within, as well as mini-biographies of some of the more prominent subjects as well as generalized instructions as to where specific graves are located.<br />This information included is about 99+% correct. I did find a couple of errors which I believe were obtained from other sources which have been proven false but continue to be perpetuated in other books and/or publications.<br />As for the overall appearance of the book, the publisher did a fantastic job of presenting an appealing package. The photos are very clear and the general layout of the book is not only user friendly but very attractive. Amazingly, this book is very clean in the sense that it was well-written and well-edited. I've seen a lot of really badly done books in the past 5 years or so. THIS IS DEFINITELY NOT ONE OF THEM.<br />Now for the big question......why buy this book? It is a lot of fun. There have been a lot of books published in recent years covering this subject (i.e., cemeteries). Some are very specific in terms of geographic location, the type of person buried within (movie stars, politicians, historical figures, etc). This book takes those elements and basically is a compilation of the very best of the best. It cuts through a lot of garbage and gives you the ones that tourists will like the best. Whether you want to visit a large number of the cemeteries included or visit a couple of them, this book will provide you with enough information to base your decision on. It is also a neat read.ject (i.e., cemeteries). Some are very specific in terms of geographic location, the type of person buried within (movie stars, politicians, historical figures, etc). This book takes those elements and basically is a compilation of the very best of the best. It cuts through a lot of garbage and gives you the ones that tourists will like the best. Whether you want to visit a large number of the cemeteries included or visit a couple of them, this book will provide you with enough information to base your decision on. It is also a neat read.	2002-11-12
US	40581989	RNO504WPKN75X	0966336909	655767654	Mommie Dearest	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Fasten Your Seatbelts, It's Bumpy Out There	While this book is certainly an interesting read and I suspect that there is basis for Christina Crawford's claims of child abuse, I'm not 100% sure that Joan Crawford's behavior would have been considered full out child abuse during the time it occurred. As a baby boomer, I remember the discipline in my home and the homes of friends. In the glorious '50's, temporal punishment was often considered quite acceptable. So I can't say that I really view this tome as an indictment against child abuse per se. My advice is that if you are looking for a classical case study of child abuse, SKIP THIS BOOK. However, if it is your intention to read about the complexities involved in grabbing the proverbial gold ring and then losing it, THIS BOOK IS A MUST READ.<br />What is interesting about this book are the ups and downs of Joan Crawford's career and her tenacious and single minded efforts to revive it during the slumps and maintain it during the high points. Her unconventional take on morality amd social propriety make me wonder if Joan was really acting during some of her more manic roles or if art was simply imitating life. Even winning an Academy Award as that mother of all mothers Mildred Pierce proved to be a temporary bandaid while she imitated her fantasy life as a mother. Later she was dealing with poor roles, and was relegated to parts which related to her own mid-life crises.<br />Aside from the legendary 'no wire hangers' anecdote, this book reflects the sad state of affairs that was Joan Crawford's life as she began her ultimate descent from super stardom since most of the tales of serious abuse appear to have coincided with the most trying moments related to her career. A favorite anecdote in the book relates to J.C.'s assuming her daughter's saop opera role. As a pre-teen viewer I watched the great star and I was convinced she was clearly losing her grip on reality even back then. The backstory as to how she assumed that role is far more interesting than her bizarre performance.<br />When I started writing this review, I kept thinking that I was a tepid Crawford fan at best. That's false. I buy everything that is published about her, I have most of her movies, and I know her life history. The truth is that there are actresses I like better, but JC definitely was more interesting and complex in life than she ever was in the movies. This woman was a lot of things, but never boring. That's why I keep coming back.zarre performance.<br />When I started writing this review, I kept thinking that I was a tepid Crawford fan at best. That's false. I buy everything that is published about her, I have most of her movies, and I know her life history. The truth is that there are actresses I like better, but JC definitely was more interesting and complex in life than she ever was in the movies. This woman was a lot of things, but never boring. That's why I keep coming back.	2002-10-22
US	40581989	R2FP2LF7WYFGTW	0879102780	406944080	Jean Arthur: The Actress Nobody Knew	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Amazing	I'm an admitted Jean Arthur fan. Unfortunately, I was born after the major part of her film career was over, but I managed to get to know her through the late show on tv and her ill-fated tv series.<br />Thankfully, John Oller managed to give Ms. Arthur's fans a view of the private woman that her movies absolutely never hinted at. He thoroughly researched his subject and gave us a glimpse of the lady that I had never been able to comprehend before.<br />Without going into details (and ruining this book for you), I can only tell you that I picked it up and read the entire book cover to cover in a few hours.<br />While Jean Arthur may have been the most famous &quot;recluse&quot; that Hollywood ever spawned since Greta Garbo, she was not reclusive at all in some ways. She needed her space and appeared to be comfortable with a certain level of anonymity in her later years. I think that element makes this an exceptional read because Jean Arthur had a lot of substance as a person as well as a strong sense of self-integrity.	2002-10-18
US	40581989	R1FBSTNL6BT0DP	0312206461	230777176	L.A. Exposed: Strange Myths and Curious Legends in the City of Angels	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Sometimes Trash Can Be Fun....	Actually, this book really does take an admirable stab at debunking ridiculous and/or incredulous stories and/or myths concerning things which have happened within or near the City of Angels. It contains some things that I have never heard of and presents logical explanations as to how some stories got started and evolved.<br />This is a great kickback book for that special day when you are snowed in or dodging buckets of rain and just want to have some fun. Hours will shoot by and you'll never know it.	2002-08-31
US	40581989	R3EL3VOMZ5D4N5	0670030171	67215831	Behind the Screen: How Gays and Lesbians Shaped Hollywood, 1910-1969	Books	4	15	19	N	N	Almost Too Much .....	I found this book sort of a difficult read. I can usually zip through a book very quickly, but I found myself hanging on every other sentence. The author seemed to cram almost too much meaningful information into every paragraph.<br />From start to finish, this book chronicled the influence of a somewhat externally closeted gay Hollywood community on the total output of work from the film industry. This wasn't all that much of a revelation to me. On one level or another a lot of film historians and movie hounds have always pretty much assumed that fact.<br />My biggest problem with this book was that it really was two or three separate books crammed under one title. It was almost too much to absorb on the first take. I kept re-reading chapters to make the connections complete. If I had been the editor working on this book I would have divided this book by decades and gone with at least two separate volumes and had it fleshed out with additional supporting information.<br />I recommend this book as an insightful study of the gay Hollywood film community and their contributions to the motion picture industry. I also caution most potential readers that this book will not be necessarily a quick take. You will miss a lot unless you proceed with caution. It is a lot like a runaway train moving at a very fast speed.	2002-08-31
US	40581989	R17FS3QYKL12I	0810944758	637106006	Sin in Soft Focus: Pre-Code Hollywood	Books	4	17	17	N	N	So Many Movies, So Little Time	Like Mick LaSalle's wonderful book COMPLICATED WOMEN which chronicles the impact the Hayes Office had on decimating the interesting roles portrayed by women, this book serves as an interesting companion piece. It chronicles the somewhat racy plots and the female characters portrayed in pre-code movies.<br />Bordering on an almost scholarly take on this topic, this tome takes you through a lot of the grittier plots tackled by early Hollywood films and the wonderful actresses who portrayed the lead characters.<br />By the end of this book, you will find yourself craving a pre-code Harlow, Shearer, Crawford, Garbo or Bow film and will want to devour a lot of them like a 21 oz. bag of Hershey kisses or Raisinets. Such were the days when little titans like Hayes weren't dictating the mantra called the CODE and films were a little risque and fun and not always that predictable.	2002-08-31
US	40581989	R2XH2BMPY92V5L	081182750X	297580821	What a Way to Go: Fabulous Funerals of the Famous and Infamous	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Death Revisited	Call this 'Death and Burial Rites of the Celebrated'. This is an interesting take on the funeral rites of many famous people. I won't go into detail because this has already been done more than adequately in the first customer review. I was particularly fond of the manner in which the material was presented. I felt that the written accounts of the funeral rites discussed within presented a verbally visual sense of being there.<br />The subjects discussed were from quite diverse levels of celebrity. The information presented was in some cases as much reflective of the historical time frame during which they occurred as well as the individuals being honored.<br />This was a very interesting exhumation of information long buried and forgotten.	2002-08-31
US	40581989	R3E7WEMYIBAQV2	1578063779	104156854	Van Johnson: MGM's Golden Boy (Hollywood Legends Series)	Books	5	19	28	N	N	Fascinating	After reading this book, I have come to the opinion that not interviewing the subject of a biography may be the only way to go. Ronald Davis has put together a very objective account of Van Johnson's career and life based upon interviews with many people who had been in close contact with the subject at one time or another. By not interviewing Mr. Johnson, the author has been able to maintain editorial integrity and not present one of those artificially sweet tomes that claw and stick to you like honey fresh from the hive.<br />The public Van Johnson and the private Van Johnson appear to be two very different people who are diametrically opposed to one another. Is that good or bad? In my opinion, it doesn't really matter. Each reader will come to his/her own conclusion by the end of the book. I walked away feeling really bad about the lousy relationship (or should I say non-relationship) Johnson has with his only daughter and people he should have remained close to. However, I also admire Mr. Johnson's tenacious will to survive and succeed under difficult circumstances.	2002-07-13
US	40581989	R1SGWKCCBB8ZLX	0711979847	546355989	Fade to Black: A Book of Movie Obituaries	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Trip Down Memory Lane	I really enjoyed this book. While I have no specific insight as to how the author really chose the subjects for inclusion in this book, he certainly appears to have extracted a lively (though dead) group of celebrities from all strata of the movie industry.<br />This book was well-researched and provided lots of juicy tidbits about the lives and deaths of the celebrity dead contained within. Unlike many books which promised but failed to deliver the goods, this book was well worth the purchase price. I consider this a worthy sucessor to the out-of-print Hollywood Album I &amp; II which were compilations of NY Times obituaries. And best of all, you finally do find out exactly what happened to many of your favorite actors and actresses. Can it get much better!	2002-07-13
US	40581989	R1X96UAQRGZ21K	0929387244	442933850	Made in Heaven: The Marriages and Children of Hollywood Stars	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What A Mess To Untangle	Too bad this is out of print. I bought it new and finally have a reference guide to figure out who is related to whom and how. My copy is pretty well worn and in tatters because I have to check things out quite a bit. Definitely worth buying to keep the Hollywood name game straight. Hollywood may be considered by some to be an incestuous place, but it only seems that way because family connections are so darn convoluted.	2002-07-13
US	40581989	RETSL2OBA5XBC	0671418858	580565948	Lamparski's Hidden Hollywood (A Fireside book)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great Book If  You Can Get It	I am an admitted Richard Lamparski addict. When he was actively producing the Whatever Became Of series, I would actively scout my local book stores to look for a new volume in the series.<br />This book turned out to be a wonderful companion to his other books. Imagine Hollywood stories colliding with an ultimate travel guide to interesting LaLaLand sites.....and voila.....this is THE BOOK.<br />At the time I bought this newly published book, I had never been to Hollywood. However, I started making plans to trek out west and now 20+ trips to LA later, I still find this book enormously entertaining. Why do I like it so much? It takes me back to a time when Hollywood was truly golden and no one realized the gold was just sprayed on glitz. Movie stars were bigger than life and you could go to a drug store and end up being the next Lana Turner.<br />This book takes you to scandal sites, old movie star hang outs...and leaves you with the sense of being there.	2002-07-13
US	40581989	RXV319O5EG1EI	0815410255	344245815	Clara Bow: Runnin' Wild	Books	5	9	11	N	N	One of the Best Entertainment Biographies Ever	When Clara Bow died in 1965, her death generated little excitement other than a faint nod to an era that had long passed. Modern audiences did not know who this woman was and had little interest in her career.<br />This book has revived public interest in her as an actress and as a person who battled a lot of demons and was never completely successful in freeing herself of those demons.<br />I knew very little about Clara Bow when I started reading this book except snippets of lurid gossip regarding her private life. Through his exhaustive research, David Stenn has managed to separate fact from fiction and present the story of an interesting woman whose life was a lot stranger than any of the characters she portrayed on the screen. I just couldn't put this book down!<br />Stenn's writing style managed to keep me interested in the subject. Of course, it can be said that Stenn seems to write exclusively about very interesting people. Whatever the case, I found myself feeling a lot of sympathy for a lady who was not emotionally equipped to handle life. I also found myself amazed that this woman was able to succeed as fabulously as she did given all the problems she faced.<br />I think most readers will find this a compelling read. It is one of the best biographies I've ever read.	2002-06-20
US	40581989	R3EC0W1ES37MP5	0810908980	556096523	Gowns by Adrian : The MGM Years 1928-1941	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hollywood Glamour At Its Best	On the surface tackling a subject like fashion designer Adrian might seem like an easy project. However, it becomes very apparent that this could not be further from the truth. The Adrian touch was imprinted on virtually all costumes designed for MGM films during his lengthy tenure at the studio.<br />Aside from the obvious consideration that the clothes he designed had to showcase MGM's roster of stars, this book accentuates the subtleties that cinema fashions require to place special emphasis not only on the actor/actress, but the parts they are playing.<br />Howard Gutner manages to cover a lot of ground by providing detailed descriptions of costumes designed for specific actors and the challenges which Adrian encountered. I found myself falling in love with the exquisite details of specific gowns such as those designed for the production of Marie Antoinette. I was also amazed by the sheer volume of costumes the studio (under Adrian's guidance) produced. Gutner's review of Adrian's work and his careful and caring research made this book a delightful read as well as a delight for the eyes. By the end of the book, I came to appreciate and understand the field of costume design and see it as an integral part of movie production. It certainly validated the awarding of Oscars for this category.<br />Adrian's artistic gifts and his sensitivity toward his subjects gave me an appreciation for his work.	2002-04-28
US	40581989	R3B47S5WED3L6Z	0609604953	817219029	Clark Gable: A Biography	Books	5	37	40	N	N	Long Live The King!	Warren G. Harris has put together a very readable book which devotes itself almost exclusively to Gable (his previous book Gable and Lombard basically chronicled the relationship of Gable and third wife Carole Lombard). While there is still a lot of information about the spectacular Lombard in this book, the thrust of this book concentrates on the time before CL and after CL.<br />In spite of the fact that Gable has been dead for over forty years (and you might have figured that there is nothing more to say about Gable), this book still covers a lot of material that I was not aware of. Author Harris has dispelled rumors that Gable killed a woman in an auto accident which was covered up by his studio MGM. Harris also provides a lot of information regarding Gable's three failed marriages which ended in divorce, the inner-workings of the studio system and MGM's publicity department.<br />This book is extremely well written and very difficult to put down. It is the compelling story of a man who quickly overcame a humble midwestern upbringing to meteorically rise through the ranks to genuine super stardom. Along the way, Harris also allows us to glimpse at the personalities that Gable knew and interacted with. The book is rich with anecdotes about some of stars of Hollywood's Golden Age and leaves one with the feeling that you actually knew these people.<br />In spite of the time which has passed since Gable's somewhat premature death, his charisma still grabbed this reader. To me, no one that I can think of in terms of today's cinema even comes close to grabbing the title \\"KING\\". This book secures his reputation and legend.	2002-03-27
US	40581989	R29NNY15GYRGWM	0786410140	411478448	Resting Places: The Burial Sites of over 7,000 Famous Persons	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Only The Best	This is the best purchase I have made in the past year. In spite of what seems like a hefty price tag, it is worth every penny.<br />Scott Wilson, through a large number of reputable contributors, has assembled a comprehensive list of the burial places of virtually every celebrity/historical figure that I can think of. In addition to providing burial locations, Mr. Wilson also provides information regarding the deceased person's claim to fame, cause of death, and anecdotal stories pertaining to his individual subject, as well as dates of birth and death.<br />While the book claims to provide over 7,000 \\"resting places\\", in actuality far more grave locations are provided as in many cases Mr. Wilson provides locations for prominent families on the basis of a prominent family member's name or a historial event such as Titanic victims.<br />In the four months since I have had this book, I have only come up with two or three people who are not listed in this book.<br />This book is essential to anyone who likes to visit cemeteries or as they say 'get within six feet of your favorite dead celeb'.	2002-03-26
US	40581989	R23DEOL05R6VKV	158754010X	598764445	Hollywood Death Scenes	Books	5	12	12	N	N	How Can You Be Killed? Let Me Count The Ways......	Take a walk on the wild side with this one. It can get fairly gruesome (some of the pictures are on the icky side), but it is an interesting collision when crime and the glam capital of the western world collide.<br />My impression is that even the most innocuous (aka less sensational) crimes seem to take on a darker, more sinister dimension when it happens in LaLaLand.<br />Be it the Hillside Strangler or Richard Ramirez or Charley Manson, you are going to find this a hard book to put down. You'll look at lesser known perverts and sociopaths and wonder how they all seemed to land in Hollywood. In fact, this is a hard book to shake off after you've finished reading it. It sticks to you like a heavy duty dose of OFF on a sticky summer's night when the mosquitoes are having a feeding frenzy. James Elsworth, where are you!	2002-03-02
US	40581989	R3M32YQHCC53IW	0937813060	894652116	The Ultimate Hollywood Tour Book (2nd Edition)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Decidedly Worth Your Time (and $)	This is a not so typical tour guide which provides its reader with a lot of bang for his/her buck. It provides information which is fairly accurate regarding the living (who tend to move quite a bit). The listings provided for death scenes are very accurate (assuming you only die once). Ditto for burial sites (assuming that remains stay put in one place.....unfortunately, that isn't always true as I seem to always be finding out). What is really impressive about the many editions of this book that have been published to date is that the author constantly updates the information in the book, so that it is as accurate as it can be given the odd and fluctuating state of celebrity mindsets (and fortunes).<br />So if you are willing to assume that some of the information may become outdated, you will probably enjoy this book quite a bit.	2002-03-02
US	40581989	R34D3TAVK0MERB	0930031210	801039363	Permanent Californians: An Illustrated Guide to the Cemeteries of California	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Until you know the facts.....	This is a fun sort of a book which has a lot of interesting biographical information pertaining to those 'permanent Californians'. However, if you plan to use it as a guidebook you'll find that directions are often confusing and inaccurate. There are several books currently available which provide better information for locating burial sites and (for that matter) more comprehensive listings per cemetery. Just don't view this book as being accurate re: grave locations/directions. The end result will be total frustration.	2002-03-02
US	40581989	R3K4VOKRXT6HP1	0967282225	381253039	Bombshell: The Life and Death of Jean Harlow	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The Definitive Bio of Jean Harlow	For any fan of Jean Harlow, this is the book to buy. David Stenn's exhaustive research paid off as this is a very objective and fair book about a subject who has now been dead for over 60 years. Fortunately for the author and his readers, when Mr. Stenn did his research many friends and acquaintances of Jean Harlow's were still with us and lucid enough to provide good information about the life and career of Harlow.<br />This book is very easy to read and chronicles a short life which was probably as interesting as any character Jean Harlow played in the movies. The anecdotes provided made me feel as though I knew Harlow personally and the end result was that I walked away from this book really caring about the subject and finding that I also really liked her a lot as a person. I have also found that I appreciate her artistry even more each time I watch one of her movies.	2002-02-09
US	40581989	R14I6G52DHH0O8	0809222272	343297562	The Hollywood Book of Death: The Bizarre, Often Sordid, Passings of More than 125 American Movie and TV Idols	Books	4	94	108	N	Y	INTERESTING, BUT	I have what is essentially two other copies of this book published under different titles that date back to pre-1994. This incarnation includes an index which matches cemeteries and their dead celeb residents. Beware that if you plan to use this as a cemetery tour book, there are some serious inaccuracies contained within.<br />What particularly irks me is that the author used bad sources for his information and didn't verify his information. This was not necessary as most of this information could have been verified online. Far better and more accurate information in print can be obtained by buying a recent book by Allen Ellenberg that covers LA County cemeteries. THE INFORMATION IN THIS BOOK IS ACCURATE AS OF ITS DATE OF PUBLICATION.<br />My biggest personal gripe with this book.....if you are going to repackage it as 'new', it would be really nice if an attempt were made to correct past errors. If this was done, it is not evident to me. As for the bulk of the book which contains stories of heartbreak and (eventually) death, this book is a good read. Parish is a good writer and manages to keep his reader hooked.	2002-02-08
