US	40715763	R10MTO9Y8C6U5	3540648526	392474540	Soft Matter Physics	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent compilation of topics in Soft Matter!	Soft Matter Physics is an excellent compilation of chapters on different aspects of soft matter, written by the experts in their respective areas. In more ways than one, this text complements the texts of Chaikin & Lubensky as well as the one by Witten, and can be used wfor classroom teaching.<br /><br />F. Brochard_Wyart's chapter on droplets describes some really elegant and simple experiments to introduce diverse concepts related to wetting and capillarity. A greater depth and detail about this area is found in a recently published treatize on Capillarity and Wetting Phenomenon, that she co-authored with David Quere and PG deGennes. The second chapter on fractals by Daoud and Van Damme presents introductory ideas of the mathematics of self-similarity, fractals, and random walks. Next follows an insightful foray into colloidal matter where J. C. Daniel and R. Andibert discuss the central role of interaction forces in describing the stability and aggregation behavior of colloids. The following two chapters focus on surfactants, where C Taupin and G. Porte examine the physiochemistry and the phase behavior of surfactant molecules.<br /><br />F Candau then talks about the polymers formed by self-assembly and L Monnerie follows it up with description of the physical properties of covalently linked polymers. Thereafter comes a chapter by Tom Witten, which beautifully strings together the concepts of fractals, random walks, phase behavior into a discussion on the behavior of polymers in solution. This chapter is written in his trademark elegance, so apparent in his own treatize on soft matter, titled Structured Fluids. The last chapter on Liquid Crystals by J. Prost and C. E. Williams dwells on the characteristic properties of the nematic, smectic and columnar phases. With PG de Gennes, J. Prost is co-author on detailed text on liquid crystals.<br /><br />It is only befitting that the forward to this text is written by PG de Gennes himself, for besides his fundamental contributions  to the field, he has shaped and influenced the research of all the contributors and of readers worldwide. I recommend this book to one and all, and I am sure that even if your research area is constrained to topics described in any one chapter, you will find the reading of the rest text as purposeful and illuminating.ental contributions  to the field, he has shaped and influenced the research of all the contributors and of readers worldwide. I recommend this book to one and all, and I am sure that even if your research area is constrained to topics described in any one chapter, you will find the reading of the rest text as purposeful and illuminating.	2005-10-08
US	40715763	R3T4YYZXFAMR9R	0691000646	870648781	Random Walks in Biology	Books	4	9	11	N	N	An easy, enjoyable read!	Random walks in Biology explains concepts of diffusion driven processes in a lucid, intuitive and didactic fashion. The approach lacks mathematical rigor, but abounds in examples to incite interest in one and all. For physicists, this book offers a delightful peek into biophysical processes where their mathematical skills and knowledge of random processes can be utilized and tested. For biologists and chemists, the book presents an erudite route to understanding how these random processes, diffusion and fluctuations influence function and design of biological contrusts.	2005-10-02
US	40715763	R1AXHTRVJQA1IS	0877735425	524015341	Tao Teh Ching (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The way of Tao!	\\"True words are not fancy<br /><br />Fancy words are not true\\"<br /><br />The ancient wisdom flows across the centuries to illuminate us. The simple sentences are like calm seas, they have a great depth and greater treasures beneath, to be revealing only to them who dive and seek them.<br /><br />\\"There is nothing better than to know that you don't know\\"<br /><br />The whole text is laced with wisdom, insight, instruction and knowledge. A must read for everyone interested in Taoism, philosophy, morality, spirituality or with the plain desire to benefit from the immortal thoughts and works of this ancient great!	2005-10-02
US	40715763	R1GA57EG8FRV94	0198526881	688811807	Structured Fluids: Polymers, Colloids, Surfactants	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lucid, intuitive text for Soft Matter enthusiasts!	Structured Fluids relies more on presenting the physical picture than mathematical machinery, stresses more on intuition and scaling concepts than on derivations and obstrusive pages of equations. In doing so, it makes itself easier to grasp than say the texts by Chaikin and Lubensky or for that matter by Kleman and Lavrentovich. The formalism is done with enough depth, to benefit both beginners and experts of the field, and thus the book is better suited for graduate student course than say RAL Jones or Hamley's texts.<br /><br />The essential knowledge related to polymers, colloids and surfactants is in here, and the book is fairly upto date with recent advances in these areas. The references listed at the end of each chapter are most useful pointers for anyone who seeks to delve deeper into the mysteries of soft matter. In fact, reading this text reminds one of the style of de Gennes, and having been written in the same spirit by these very illustrous scientists, the book is comprehensive and erudite in content and presentation.<br /><br />The book starts off by talking about fundamentals, including elements of statistical physics and experimental probes used to investigate the soft matter. This sets stage for discussion of various themes related to say<br /><br />polymers, where random walk statistics capture essential physics required to describe a coil, scaling concepts and basic thermodynamics tells about coil dimensions in different solvents and extension of brownian dynamics explains mobility of chains. The corresponding experimental tools of light scattering and viscosity highlight how these can be measured.<br /><br />colloids, where the nature of interaction between colloidal particles determines their static and dynamic behavior, leading to experimentally observed self-assembly and aggregation.<br /><br />interfaces, where basics of surface tension come in to explain behavior of colloids and polymers near walls and interfaces.<br /><br />surfactants, which borrows principles from previous chapters, exhibiting rich phase behavior dictated by statistical thermodynamics, dynamics related to solvent quality and aggregation dependent on aggregation.<br /><br />A must read for everyone interested, active (and maybe even for experts) in the field!urfactants, which borrows principles from previous chapters, exhibiting rich phase behavior dictated by statistical thermodynamics, dynamics related to solvent quality and aggregation dependent on aggregation. <br /> <br />A must read for everyone interested, active (and maybe even for experts) in the field!	2005-10-02
US	40715763	R7IZNG3A8GW4Q	0140195513	862237580	Broken Wings	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Love, the source of eternal bliss and spirituality!	Gibran says, \\"I was eighteen years of age when love opened my eyes with its magic rays and touched my spirit for the first time with its fiery fingers and Selma Karamy was the first woman who awakened my spirit with her beauty and led me into the garden of high affection, where days pass like dreams and nights like weddings.\\"<br /><br />In his typical lyrical prose, interlaced with subtle imagery and deep philosophy, Kibran creates a masterpiece of first love. The story is poignant, and is full of platonic ideals, so characteristic of first love, especially in the East. I say so, as in the East, be it South Asia or the Middle East, first love is a cherished territory where spirituality overwhelms every idea of sexuality. The prose is delightful in content as well as intent, and is laced with a wisdom, so reminiscent of his most famous work, the Prophet.<br /><br />Gibran always wrote short novels, and this one too is a short, but intense read. The sentences are rich with poetic descriptions, and the way author describes nature and love is refreshing, soothing, and beautiful.<br /><br />I recommend Gibran to one and all. His writings may not appeal to you if you are looking for cheap thrills, but if you pine for a love story that defies the usual pot-broiler stuff, a love story full of purity and selflessness, read this one.	2005-10-02
US	40715763	R1UUBS96BY5LBU	1559706457	214373991	Riot: A Love Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good experiment in writing style!	Shashi Tharoor's Riot tells a story of one Miss Hart, an american social worker who is murdered during Hindu Muslim riots in a small town in the sate of Uttar Pradesh in India. The narrative is quite experimental, the story is revealed through newspaper clippings, dairy enteries, letters written to friends and conversations with a newspaper journist who interviews people related to the tradegy. The novel carries the story of Miss Hart's fling with an married IAS officer Laxman in the backdrop, an extra-marital affair that gives as much pleasure as anguish to Laxman. The riot is somehwere in the background, and it is quite apparent that the author uses the novel as a vehicle to voice his ideas and thoughts about Ram Janam Bhoomi and whole Hindu Muslim animosity issue that arises out of it. Laxman is potrayed as some kind of poet, though in my opinion his poetry is quite second rate at best (I am not sure if Tharoor intended it to be so, or he is a better novelist that a poet). The story is very well written, though it is written in a style where it seems to be mainly designed for foreign audiences. As an Indian, I can acertain that most things happen as they are mentioned here. Still Tharoor looks pale here say when compared with his Great Indian Novel, or to other contemporary Indian writers. The novel is quite short, and maybe read more for its unique writing style than for the story or message it strives to convey!	2005-10-01
US	40715763	R3BF5O4TNL1OPX	0394404289	377400426	The Prophet (A Borzoi Book)	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	Deep thoughts, simple words!	Gibran's Prophet is the best example of how simple prose can be used to convey deep and powerful statement. As the name suggests, the book just recounts some sermons given by a prophet. The themes discussed include love, family, friendship, freedom, etc. This is one of those classsics that one must own and read every once in a while, for the wisdom in these words is bound to make every reader a better, completer person. It is a spiritual prose, full of deep insight and inspiration for one and all.<br /><br />Some qoutes that I particularly like:<br /><br />And ever it has been that love knows not his own depth until the hour of separation.<br /><br />When love beckons to you, follow him, though his ways are hard and steep.<br /><br />Work is love made visible.<br /><br />Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.<br /><br />The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy can it contain.<br /><br />Your house is your larger body.<br /><br />And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than thier misdeeds.<br /><br />For reason, ruling alone is a force confining;<br /><br />And passion, unattended is a flame that burns to its own destruction.<br /><br />Your pain is breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding.<br /><br />For self is a sea, boundless and measureless.<br /><br />For vision of one man lends not its wings to another man.<br /><br />In longing for your giant self lies your goodness and that longing is in all of you.<br /><br />Trust your dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity.	2005-10-01
US	40715763	R1KMC5SLG9ST4W	0679734503	755691955	Crime and Punishment: Pevear & Volokhonsky Translation (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Reading this classic is like going down with fever!	Reading Crime and Punishment is quite like going down with fever, your mind is likewise affected for the while you are at it, and even when the fever is gone, you take some time to recover. Whatever does not kill you, makes you stronger, and so does this reading. Raskolnikov, the chief protoganist is a student who justifies to himself that a pawnbreaker must be killed, for betterment of world and himself; world as she cheats and leeches money from poor students and people like him, and himself as by taking her money he could use it for his own advancement. The first part of the novel describes this crime, while the latter part deals with punishment, most of which comes from within.<br /><br />The novel is a forceful field of philosophy and religious undercurrents, that are primal forces that keep the reader in a state of feverish interest and persistant agony. Dostoyevsky's great success lies in creating this character, who in more ways than one, represents the nihilists in our inner selves. His character is a person that could reside in any one of us and his dark tale awes, bothers and compells the reader to delve into various moral and philisophical questions that form the subtext of this masterpiece.<br /><br />Besides (the famous) Raskolnikov, there is a whole range of cast that completes Dostoyevsky's world of trauma and drama. The other main character of interest is Sonia, who must sell herself to keep her family well-fed. Raskolnikov encounters her, and their parallel sagas criss-cross many times. Right after committing the murder, Raskolnikov's mother and sister make an appearance, and  without divulging much, I can say that with them the entry of several characters into the novel make it full of suspense and mystery as well. There are a bunch of detectives trying to discover the murderer of the pawnbroker and their efforts bring a sense of thrill into this otherwise dark and complex novel.<br /><br />Like all classics, the story is just one aspect of the novel. Dostoyevsky is remembered more because of the narrative that forces ethical, existential, social and religious questions into the head and heart of the reader. This novel is a classic read for it pushes the reader over the edge of self-abnegation into a wild current of poignant self-appraisal. It is brilliant in its bringing a character like Raskolnikov into literary circles, and composing a story that will ail before it can cure.<br /><br />Not an easy it. Not happy either. Classic and must read, nevertheless!the novel. Dostoyevsky is remembered more because of the narrative that forces ethical, existential, social and religious questions into the head and heart of the reader. This novel is a classic read for it pushes the reader over the edge of self-abnegation into a wild current of poignant self-appraisal. It is brilliant in its bringing a character like Raskolnikov into literary circles, and composing a story that will ail before it can cure. <br /> <br />Not an easy it. Not happy either. Classic and must read, nevertheless!	2005-10-01
US	40715763	R1EAM0C5B0SOGR	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Full of paragraphs of absolute brilliance!	In To the Lighthouse, Virginia Woolf accomplishes a feat that every writer hopes to accomplish in his/her lifetime: she creates out of the ordinary humdrum of the daily life of an English family of Ramsay's characters and paragraphs that will ever be part of the best of English writing produced in last century. In my opinion, several paragraphs in this novel are like jewels of English prose, that must be prized, possessed and displayed likewise. Woolf settles for a very subtle narrative, though which she presents innermost thoughts of her characters, especially women, and in the brilliance of her words, romance and life are captured like snapshots labelled thoughtfully and carefully!<br /><br />The book is sort of divided into two parts, separated by decades. What was most intoxicating part of the book was the description of this change, as was the description of the nightfall. Be it secret thoughts of women or their admirers, or the doubts and uncertainities of a professor-father or the feelings of children (in both times separated by more than a decade) or the simple description of nature, Woolf shows a talent that must make her as important to twentieth century literature as Joyce and Lawrence. She is in my opinion one of the finest (if not the finest) female novelist to have ever existed! Maybe my hyperbole is uncalled for, but my admiration stems from the deep admiration of an exquisite piece of creative writing! Like every classic, this one must be savored with slow speed; deep thoughts, few pages at a time and remembered by the beauty of the sentences and emotions they capture or arouse; and not by the turn of events or unfolding of drama, which even though interesting, is incidental to this incredible piece of literature!	2005-06-21
US	40715763	RIGHZ1JMSEEPY	140003468X	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Of bitter almonds, timeless love and of magical GGM!!	Love in the time of cholera is yet another brilliant work of Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Marquez tells the story in a style where every sentence is pregnant with metaphors, every other phrase is a pinnacle of poetic expression, every lie is a truth seen in a new light, every experience is picturized in a magical realism of which he is a master painter! To use such talent in his masterful way requires a genius apparent in all his works!<br /><br />The story revolves around two main characters, Fermina Daza and Florentino Ariza, and is spread over three hundred and fifty pages that describe nearly half a century of love in its various forms!! A love between a school girl and a nervous suitor to the love between them at the dawn of their second childhood: and everything in between that takes the reader through lifes, loves, escapades, and homes of several protagonists. The maze is as charming as in his other novels, with profound insight on love strewn, as if nonchalantly between spreads of interesting digressions that keep one as glued to the book as the fancy wordplay. To me Marquez represents a writer whose each word is born out of multiple layers of thoughts and complexity, that must spring from his acute insights and multitudes of experiences.<br /><br />One must wonder what role cholera plays in the novel. It plays the same role as love, presents similar symptoms and likewise leaves people dead in its wake. This is a saga of requited and unrequited love, of social and ethical love, of moral and perverse love, of greedy and hungry love as well as sensual and vulgar love. It is a love story with a happy ending, but like any real love story had characteristic mishaps and trauma, pains and predicaments, joy and sorrow. Hell sir, what do you expect in a book titled \\"Love in the time of cholera\\" if not the paraphrasing of a plague that inflicts the characters of this saga?<br /><br />Leaf storm and other stories is full of shorter and more tangile words; The Autumn of the Patriarch is about a dictators life; his rise and decay and is incredibly (difficult yet exquisite) read while the Hundred Years of Solitude is I guess the best of the lot. I found Love in the time of cholera more accessible than his other works, allowing faster assimilation a grand buffet of Marquez' visions and an endless servings of vignettes. Never for the fainthearted readers, I believe Marquez' works are excellent exhibition of the glory of the written word and the timelessness of great writing! His novels move through space and time with amazing fluidity, capturing the essence of people living for maybe a whole hundred years, and providing the detail and drama that accomplies life with words that interweave lie and truth, imagined and real in a similar fashion as our own heads do!<br /><br />Oh! But you wanted to know what the novel is all about, and its story or how good it is? Well then, stop looking at this review for an easier way out, just go and read the novel!:)f the Patriarch is about a dictators life; his rise and decay and is incredibly (difficult yet exquisite) read while the Hundred Years of Solitude is I guess the best of the lot. I found Love in the time of cholera more accessible than his other works, allowing faster assimilation a grand buffet of Marquez' visions and an endless servings of vignettes. Never for the fainthearted readers, I believe Marquez' works are excellent exhibition of the glory of the written word and the timelessness of great writing! His novels move through space and time with amazing fluidity, capturing the essence of people living for maybe a whole hundred years, and providing the detail and drama that accomplies life with words that interweave lie and truth, imagined and real in a similar fashion as our own heads do! <br /> <br />Oh! But you wanted to know what the novel is all about, and its story or how good it is? Well then, stop looking at this review for an easier way out, just go and read the novel!:)	2005-06-21
US	40715763	R342W2URY1698R	0140188169	833414308	Women in Love: Cambridge Lawrence Edition (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Women & Love: Two Complexities together!	Women in Love by DH Lawrence is a mature drama, where four characters live and love, debate and denounce, hate and revere each other. The Bragwen sisters (also starring in Rainbow:)) represent two remarkably different women: Ursula is a small town, reserved, schoolteacher kinds; Gudrun the artsy one who hops from city to city. Both are complex characters, as I guess all women are, and the masterful Lawrence explores their love and passion for Rupert Birkin and Gerald Grich respectively.<br /><br />Like any other Lawrence novel, the beauty is not the story, but how it is told. The heroes are human, feeling the whole array of emotions we feel. The relationship of Birkin and Grich is a relationship of two friends, tied together not only by the women they love, but an essential urge for find the meanings of their lifes. Birkin shuns materialism, Grich revels in it. Their exchanges, their conversations are beautifully captured.<br /><br />As always, Lawrence gets beneath the skin of his characters, divulging their thoughts, hopes and dreams, echoing their fears and faults to the readers, echoing them through the words and deeds of characters, through sort of trifles and commonplace conversations and combines the disparities and eccentricities of human beings.<br /><br />While the essential play is between four characters, Lawrence has conjured well developed group of support cast: Hermoine, the enchantress who is rhapsodical in her words, but shallow in self; Gerald's father, whose presence provides remarkable pretext for father son relationship; Loerke, an artist whose appearance in novel makes it multi-dimensional (read to find out why) and Winifried, Possum and so on.<br /><br />The novel is very different from other Lawrence novels I have read so far. Sons and Lovers is most easily readable, and his autobiographical piece; Rainbow is Lawrence at his best, and so the novel is very rich and complex reading; Lady Chatterley's Lover (as its infamous for) explores human sensuality in a very poetic and honest way. Women in Love does not enchant, does not embellish facts or emotions, does not rely on suspense or sensuality of romance, does not attack moral fiber; what it really does is, it gives us a video camera and constant feed about thoughts of people that we are watching and we see, hear and enjoy according to our own perception! Women in love is sort of heavy read, one needs to labor through the labyrinth's of \\"words, philosophies, thoughts and ideas\\", and hence perhaps should not be first Lawrence you read. Start with Sons and Lovers or Lady Chatterley's Lover or his short stories! If you know women, if you think you know love, if you really know Women in Love, you will figure why this novel must be so!:)!res human sensuality in a very poetic and honest way. Women in Love does not enchant, does not embellish facts or emotions, does not rely on suspense or sensuality of romance, does not attack moral fiber; what it really does is, it gives us a video camera and constant feed about thoughts of people that we are watching and we see, hear and enjoy according to our own perception! Women in love is sort of heavy read, one needs to labor through the labyrinth's of \\"words, philosophies, thoughts and ideas\\", and hence perhaps should not be first Lawrence you read. Start with Sons and Lovers or Lady Chatterley's Lover or his short stories! If you know women, if you think you know love, if you really know Women in Love, you will figure why this novel must be so!:)!	2005-06-05
US	40715763	RJVSR0RMR7ASN	0486642283	959188032	Light Scattering by Small Particles (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Classic must have/read text on scattering!	van de Hulst has written an extermely useful treatise on light scattering by small particles. The essential assumptions in every derivation are specified, noting the range of validity of most expressions, and the physical interpretation and intuition is expressed through words as well as through mathematics. The book is very readable for people coming from all kinds of disciplines. A background in optics and electrodynamics is definitely useful in understanding the text better.<br /><br />Being a Dover publication, the book is very affordable and must be on the shelf of every serious student of scattering. The book starts by stating the \\"limitation\\", essentially defining the range of topics and physical behavior that is covered in the book, then wave propagation in vacuum and in media is described and the matrix methods associated with polarization are introduced. In part II, the author covers Rayleigh and Rayleigh Gans scattering, i.e. scattering by particles small compared to the wavelength of light, and then describes Mie scattering (rigorously true for spheres of all sizes). Thereafter he discusses several special cases important to metereologists, material scientists, atmospheric sciencists, physicists and chemists. These include particles large compared to wavelength of light, optics of raindrops and rainbows, absorbing and non absorbing spheres and particles with some other shapes (spheroids and cylinders), etc. The lasting popularity of the book is not only because it provides essence of a large body of work on scattering, it is perhaps in the deep insight of the author that is inspirational and educational in every respect, and found in every page of the book!	2005-06-05
US	40715763	RL5MKHAUZKA7D	0471293407	699105992	Absorption and Scattering of Light by Small Particles	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent text for Absorption and Scattering!	Bohren and Huffman present a coherent and comprehensive description of absorption and scattering by small particles. The text is written in a very amusing style, where ideas are presented in a conversation like manner, as if the authors are directly addressing the reader, providing jokes and examples to illustrate their point. This text builds upon the description provided by Hulst in classic text, and provides a deal of useful information particularly related to absorption (not covered by the text of Hulst)!<br /><br />The first eight chapters illustrate the basic theory of scattering and absorption, introducing expression and physics relevant to spheres, spheroids and a whole array of particles. This section is quite similar in spirit to the text by Hulst, requires a background in electrodynamics (to make it most useful) . In part II and part III, the authors discuss the optical constants of bulk matter and small particles respectively, citing examples of metallic as well as semiconducting particles. This book fills the need for a textbook for studying extinction coefficients of all kinds of particles, and is useful for physicists, chemists, meteorologists, material scientists, etc. Nonlinear optics is not covered, as also the effect of multi-particle scattering (and thankfully so)!<br /><br />The book is very useful for people studying absorption (and scattering) of nanoparticles. It contains a good description of basic physics of plasmon resonance, extremely relevant to the research of people studying metallic particles. Bohren has written some really amusing as well as insightful \\"science\\" books on experiments and observations of physical phenomenon in daily life (and atmospheric sciences). This book is similar, with additional detail in terms of mathematical equations:)! Extremely useful for researchers and scientists even remotely associated with studies of absorption and scattering by particles! In terms of usefulness, this book is much better than the text by Kerker on similar topic!ext by Kerker on similar topic!	2005-06-05
US	40715763	R10VECC5Y2VCDO	0786887214	623897546	Sync: How Order Emerges From Chaos In the Universe, Nature, and Daily Life	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A compelling story about nonlinear science!	SYNC emerges from nonlinear dynamics and complexity, from the mathematical world of differential equations and maps, spontaneously, naturally, beautifully. The book is a delightfully well-written story about the thrill of discovery, the thrill of knowing the mathematics that governs sleep cycles, mood swings, the flashing of fireflies, the rhythms and rhymes of heart muscles, the synchrony of brain cells leading to perception. The examples are well chosen, the allegories and metaphors are vastly helpful in making this book a good read to anyone with even a shard of interest in knowing  about science, about world around us. For anyone who has ever taken a course in Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos (and maybe studied that book written by same author), this is a must read! If you loved Chaos by Gleick, this one will surely appear to your fancy!	2005-05-26
US	40715763	R1B9Q8XMN118HL	0387005927	754897735	Capillarity and Wetting Phenomena: Drops, Bubbles, Pearls, Waves	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Intuitive, elegant, insightful, beautiful!	Capillarity and Wetting Phenomena, like every text and paper bearing the name of de Gennes is intuitive, insightful, elegant, beautiful and extremely useful text. The names de Gennes, Brochard and David Quere are well known to the researchers in this area, and this book basically brings together their deep insight about a host of different phenomena in very simple words and equations. The described physics of wetting, surface tension, droplet spreading, instabilities, bubbles, etc. is developed in a style where qualitative arguments, dimensional arguments and experimental observations are used to describe a variety of complex phenomena. The apparent lack of mathematical rigor is a blessing to everyone interested in developing a taste and temperament for this extremely important field. While one can find several related texts in the field, none other is written in this delightfully insightful way. This is one of the rare gems that everyone from a high school student to most advanced researcher in the field can read, enjoy, learn from and be delighted to possess.	2005-05-08
US	40715763	R26X6LJELX2N83	0486411559	467803790	Dynamic Light Scattering: With Applications to Chemistry, Biology, and Physics (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Essential reference for Dynamic Light Scattering!	Dynamic Light Scattering is a classic text, that presents a comprehensive and in-depth overview of the underlying physics and principles of DLS. The description is developed with the associated mathematics of fluctuations and time correlation functions, as well as various physical aspects of Brownian Motion. Examples drawn from physics, chemistry and biology are used to illustrate the usefullness of DLS in studying a diverse range of problems including cell motility, macromolecular dynamics, dynamics of anisotropics objects (rod-like particles, viruses), electrolytic solutions, etc. The book is ESSENTIAL for everyone with interest in 1) dynamics of complex fluids 2) Brownian Motion of particles and 3) Single Molecule Imaging!<br /><br />The text is a beautifully written treatise on various applications of DLS, with a very insightful commentary on how various dynamics is detected by light, how underlying structure and relaxations translate to observable, how observables can be deduced by mathematical principles based on statistical mechanics (including non-equilibrium thermodynamics). This is a fairly advanced text, so I would advise someone to get a soft introduction to his/her topic of choice (polymers, gels, rods, colloids, cells, polyelectrolytes, etc.) and basic statistical mechanics before picking this text. Being a Dover publication, the book is priced cheaper than it ought to be:), and hence must make its way to the shelf of people who have any lasting interest in DLS. The book by Wyn Brown is a useful supplementary text (and includes more modern references, but comes at a high price). This book is an exercise in the mathematics of correlation functions, and associated hydrodynamics equations, and definitely requires concerted effort to become beneficial to the reader.	2005-05-07
US	40715763	R1NC2B4ACPLCAA	9024728770	158072881	Low Reynolds number hydrodynamics: with special applications to particulate media (Mechanics of Fluids and Transport Processes)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Bible of Particle Dynamics in Low Re!!	Low Reynolds Number Hydrodynamics by Happel and Brenner is one of the most useful texts ever written (in the field of the same name), and is essential reading for everyone working in this area. This includes researchers studying motion of colloidal particles say during sedimentation or through NEMS devices, cell motility and motion of bacteria, microfluidics, microrheology of complex fluids, etc. The book first introduces the required concepts of Fluid Mechanics, and proceeds to detail the theorems and derivations of how Navier Stokes equation is simplified into creeping flow equations, the hydrodynamics of  single particles of different shapes and sizes moving in unbounded fluid, the hydrodynamic interaction during motion of assembly of particles, the all effect and ends with a discussion of viscosity of particulate media.<br /><br />The book contains a wealth of knowledge regarding the hydrodynamics of particulate media, and progressively introduces the effect on dynamics of the particles. It is very instrustive in the sense, that first the single particle dynamics is discussed. Then the effects of shapes and sizes are detailed. Next level of complexity is built in by looking at interaction between two spherical particles moving through a fluid. Then anisotropic bodies are discussed. The effect of walls, boundaries and multi-particles comes in next. A basic understanding of Fluid Mechanics (say of the order of Transport Phenomenon by Bird, Stewart and Lightfoot) is enough to get one started on discovering the beautiful word of Low Re Hydrodynamics.<br /><br />However, the text was written and revised two-three decades back, and hence is a bit dated with respect to the range of applications covered and the cited references. There are several texts available to supplement this one say for looking at cell motility or colloidal dynamics or sedimentation of particles, etc. Also effects of Brownian Motion are excluded, which require studying additional texts. Nevertheless, the book is an exceedingly useful reference (too pricey to own) and will be useful for all the above mentioned fields (and for pedagogic reasons)!theless, the book is an exceedingly useful reference (too pricey to own) and will be useful for all the above mentioned fields (and for pedagogic reasons)!	2005-05-07
US	40715763	R9QKRSV9N8LJJ	0521426006	960915571	Colloidal Dispersions (Cambridge Monographs on Mechanics)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Great book: requires rewrite/revision; excellent for concept	Colloidal Dispersions is an excellent text, both for graduate students and for physicists/physical chemists foraying into the field of colloidal dispersions. The book starts by talking about particle hydrodynamics, then introduces Brownian motion and follows it up with description of different interaction forces experienced by colloidal particles. Thereafter, it discusses the thermodynamics of polymer in solution, how it affects the forces between the particles. In following chapters, it details the electrokinetic phenomena, and the physics of polymer mediated and charged mediated stabilization. The last few chapters return to dynamics again, with a chapter each devoted to sedimentation and rheology!<br /><br />The book is beautifully written, and most of the material is useful as it is. Since this book was written in 1989, it requires a revision to bring it to the level of current understanding. The whole realm of nanoparticles is based on principles described here, as is the field of colloidal self-assembly. With a revision and few additions here and there, and maybe addition of some references to the work done between 1989-2005, the book can be made into workhouse of all colloidal scientists. I highly recommend this book to everyone interested in understanding the physical behavior of colloids. Coming with a background in Statistical Mechanics would be certainly helpful, and for people with training in Polymer Physics, the book can be understood  by drawing analogies with the concepts used there. This is one of the best book in terms of the balance between the use of equations and words used to present physical picture and definitely one everyone in the field must read:) But as I said before, I will be greatly indebted to authors if they bring out a revised edition: I hope they do so soon!!	2005-04-21
US	40715763	R1ESVZQK15VU02	0380017601	509203925	Love Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Love is beautiful!	Erich Segal's Love Story is a simple, tocuhing, beautiful and heartfelt novel. It is an easy read, full of sentimentality served with dash of really delightful wit and exchanges between Oliver and Jennifer. Oliver starts a Harvard stud, hailing from a family of superachievers, and has reserved acute enimity towards his father who he calls \\"sonofabitch\\". Jenny is a small town girl, who studies music, and comes out as a perfect match for Oliver. Its a romantic novel, runs like a movie, and besides being a love story, addresses father son relationship quite well as well as brings out the character an ivy-league garduate acquires simply because of his schooling. The novel manages to drive a dagger through a readers heart towards the end, which I will not disclose for benefit of those who haven't read. Read it; it requires few hours at most, and believe me you might like it. At least a diehard romantic like me would think so!	2005-04-14
US	40715763	R2SOAUSC3T2250	1593080131	990924494	Sons and Lovers (Barnes & Noble Classics Series)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Lawrence excels in presenting human emotions!	D. H. Lawrence excels in  presenting human emotions of love and lust, hate and hope, faith and passion. The main protagonist, Paul, is said to be an autobiographical account of Lawrence's own self, and perhaps that explains why Lawrence is able to present his array of emotions as well as he manages to do in this novel. The novel is about the relationship between mother and sons, and about the lovers of the respective sons.<br /><br />The character of mother is actually the one around whom all the story is woven. No one writes about the feelings of woman as well as Lawrence does, and like in other novels, he captures the feelings through delicate and beautiful descriptions of seemingly trivial events. Paul's brother William and the woman he loves Gypsy, present the life of London in backdrop of romance between a highly intelligent male, and a blonde-like bimbo. Paul's own romances with Miriam, a simple, homely girl, who is religious and respecting, and with Clara, a much older than himself and modernist in views female makes this novel a classic study of passionate love and sexual attraction. Among all this, is the role of mother whose compensates for her unhappy marriage by devoting all her energies to her sons, and then in later years has to deal with loves of her sons that threaten to tug them away from her.<br /><br />The story is also a story of struggle of a family, where a young wife must come to grips with a drinking husband, where children must grow in shadow of the strained relationships of their parents, where Paul, William and the other siblings will grow from childhood into an age where they will fall into love, find vocations and finally the family will grow into a happier, richer bunch. Like typical Lawrence, all relationships are treated with rich and emotional descriptions, and the innermost thoughts of characters are spread out in beautifully written prose. The novel captures commotion of love and lust quite well, and eventhough Lawrence has refrained from talking about sexual attraction in a way that cause much consternation in his times, the descriptions are lush and unforgettable.<br /><br />I have always loved the way Lawrence describes nature. Sunlight, leaves, forests, evenings, stars in the night sky, clouds, sea and seashore: all nature itself is woven into the fabric of this novel in very artistic fashion, very poetically and imaginatively. Lawrence, I repeat, is the novelist of last century that no one ought to miss, and trust me his world is run by universal emotions that only writer of his talent, perception and feeling can write.<br /><br />Lastly, this is a classic, it requires time and effort. The beauty of the writing is in the descriptions, rather than the sequence of events. From seemingly mundane lives of few family members, and using seemingly trivial daily events, Lawrence tells a story of romances, relationships and (I believe one of the best accounts of)mother-son relationship. Its a kind of story that stays with you, makes you understand yourself better, and is wonderful to remember!efrained from talking about sexual attraction in a way that cause much consternation in his times, the descriptions are lush and unforgettable.  <br /> <br />I have always loved the way Lawrence describes nature. Sunlight, leaves, forests, evenings, stars in the night sky, clouds, sea and seashore: all nature itself is woven into the fabric of this novel in very artistic fashion, very poetically and imaginatively. Lawrence, I repeat, is the novelist of last century that no one ought to miss, and trust me his world is run by universal emotions that only writer of his talent, perception and feeling can write. <br /> <br />Lastly, this is a classic, it requires time and effort. The beauty of the writing is in the descriptions, rather than the sequence of events. From seemingly mundane lives of few family members, and using seemingly trivial daily events, Lawrence tells a story of romances, relationships and (I believe one of the best accounts of)mother-son relationship. Its a kind of story that stays with you, makes you understand yourself better, and is wonderful to remember!	2005-03-29
US	40715763	R1BE5HTFOBPR9B	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Exquisite work of magical complexity and infinite beauty!	One hundred years of solitude is a work of genius. Marquez takes us through the lives and times of atleast six generations of Buendia family, weaving one magical imagery over the other, layers and layers of fantasy build into characters and daily reality. The writer is a poet, with his metaphors taking the center stage and creating a marvellous world of miracles and half-truths, of lies that defy several laws of physics and yet are amusing and interesting.<br /><br />His novel is like a river flowing backwards from the ocean, and likewise he traces the trajectories of all its tributeries, rather mulls over the genesis and fall of each one, and describes all the floods, draughts, tides, swells and ebbs, in an continuous stream of highly imaginative narrative. Maybe my review is written in a rather unoriginal copy of the style of Marquez, and might appear full of long sentences. The same style in hands of this master sees flowering of an amazing piece of literature. It is rich in literary, scientific and philosophical meanderings, its full of several forms of life, each form of life is swamped by the overwhemling current of times, each generation discovers for itself love, lust, intrigue, tastes and temptations, talents and tempests.<br /><br />Gabriel Garcia Marquez never ceases to amaze me, every sentence is a work of art. The book is sufficiently complex to keep one engrossed for weeks. Most pages are too mindboggling to be handed more than a few at a time. He supplies your imagination with so much matter that you can almost sense your brain cells seething with creativity or to say the least a pleasant confusion and agitation. The book is full of mysteries and laughter, massacres and births, people who have same names, flying carpets, Sanskrit, alchemists, wars, women who live to hundred years of age, bastards, failed and flourished businesses, and every imaginable occupation that can be thought of in a small time AND MUCH MUCH MORE. Read it!	2005-02-20
US	40715763	R3RZNDCQX69Z3M	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Maugham's subtle narrative, and Gauguin's life-story!	Maugham, as always, writes in a very easy to read style, the characters are crafted imaginatively and sensitively, and the story is interesting and progresses like a biography. In fact, I was to find out later that the story of Charles Strickland, who leaves his wife and family to pursue his own artistic ambitions is inspired by the story of a French impressionist painter Paul Gauguin (famous for painting Tahiti women).<br /><br />The novel is in a beautiful narrative, checkered by delightful moorings of the author, well-written dialogues and descriptions which are picturesque enough to be adapted by the reader into a sort of beautiful movie and documentary, which all human emotions coming into play. The novel is about passion, the intense passion that drives artists, helps them to achieve greatness at the cost of their own idiosyncracies, passion which drives as well as cuts, passion that propels a being beyond the commonplace. For admirers of Paul Gauguin, this novel represents a kind of biography, that presents a life-story in a very unobstrusive fashion, and sheds light into the elements in painter's mind and heart that must have influenced his art.<br /><br />Beyond Charles Strickland and the narrator, there are several characters worth mention. Strickland's wife is a woman who admires artists and writers (and fails to see the artist in his own husband), Dirk Stroeve is a painter who knows his limitations as well as he has the talent of seeing the genious in others and he is a human being who is wronged by his own zeal to be helpful and caring, Mrs Stroeve is (without revealing anything) a very interesting character, and there are many others. The novel benefits from Maugham's skill as writer of short stories and plays, for the novel consists of many chapters, each chapter tells of an incident or dialogue, and the story moves through smoothly and nicely.<br /><br />Another brilliant novel to read and like. If you liked Maugham's Razor's edge, this will endear Maugham further!	2005-01-02
US	40715763	RQE18N87YLQ9C	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Utopia, classic semi-serious satire, and an excellent read!	Brave New World describes a paradigm for a new stable world, where arts are surpressed, faith and God are abolished, a caste system is created into which people are trained to think and work right from their births, sexual pleasures are promoted and \\"soma\\" present a ready refuge from every sorrow, every burst of adrelin. The novel written in 1930s is outright brilliant in several respects: its a self-supporting surprisingly accurate prophesy of changing world order and how societies are organized, it is book of reflection where the very basis of God, our faith, our social, religious and cultural attributes are questioned, it is a commentary on sociology, it is book of philosophy where questions about freewill, nature of science and most importantly human nature are provoked. The book is a great read, and one of those pieces of literature that everyone must commit to, not only to read it, but to think about what the book hints at! Huxley's Brave New World is in many respects like Wells Time Machine, underlines how luxury leads to lack of extremes, pain and instability which nucleate each change, drive new inventions and inspire art and literature.	2004-12-20
US	40715763	R3OELHC8G9TDRZ	019512197X	611650461	The Structure and Rheology of Complex Fluids (Topics in Chemical Engineering)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Essential text for Dynamics of Complex Fluids!	In this advanced text, Larson presents essential understanding required to appreciate the physics and dynamics of complex fluids (or soft condensed matter). In fact, he starts each chapter by presenting comprehensive introduction to the complex fluid, and then proceeds to provide detailed and erudite experimetal and theoretical insight into dynamical behavior.<br /><br />The chapters include: polymers, glassy liquids, polymer gels, particulate suspensions, particulate gels, electro- and magneto-responsive suspensions, foams, emulsions and blends and lastly liquid crystals, liquid crystalline polymers, surfactant solutions and block copolymers. Each chapter in itself a complete overview of the structure and rheology of that system. It is written in a very readable fashion for self education, and also could serve as an excellent text for graduate courses.<br /><br />Larson has presented the essential theoretical ideas about the chosen substance, summarised all the important references, and included many experimental results and other illustrations, mulled over solved and unsolved issues, provided applications, solved and unsolved examples, and created a text that every serious student, practioner in the dynamics of any of the complex fluids discussed in this book must have on his shelf. If you are just starting out as a researcher in the structure and rheology of gels, polymers, liquid crystals or block copolymers, this book is a perfect starting point for it provides necessary detail and knowhow with a clarity that would appeal to students across all disciplines. For polymer dynamics, the texts by Doi-Edwards and de Gennes; for liquid crystals by de Gennes; for colloidal dispersions by Russel and for meaty details of condensed matter physics the textbook by Lubensky and Chaikan will prove as inevitable supplementary reading.	2004-12-11
US	40715763	R1BTL153CY5QSR	0553212621	182408519	Lady Chatterley's Lover (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A masterpiece in several respects.	DH Lawrence's Lady Chatterley's Lover remains infamous for the explicit description of sexual encounters between a upper class housewife and a laborer, and eventhough it features among the top lists of the novels written in last centuty, like many others I started reading it with suspicision. What I found was a world with vividly described characters, a frank writing to the degree it talks about all aspects of human emotion, and sexual ones too. Unlike the mainstream writers before him, Lawrence writes a powerful and passionate novel, full of sensuality and natural bursts of energy. So in some respects it is a mature novel, but it if neither porno, nor as sexual by modern standards as it was made out to be in early last century. In fact, by present standards, it does not shock any grown ups, maybe can provide the shock shared by people in 1930s and 1940s to enthusiastic readers in late teenage or early twenties, or for someone whose diet was entirely Victorian before this.<br /><br />So after you get through and over with your own the prejudices and the infamous part, you start to see why Lawrence is one writer from the last century you just should not miss. His description of nature, of forests, of people, emotions, thoughts and actions of both men and women, his references to class struggles, his lyrical style and most importantly the similies swept me off my feet. His words move before your eyes, recreating beautiful imagery, reconstructing (the infamous) Connie, the laborer Mellors or Connie's cripple husband Clifford as completely humanly, falling, fearless or failing, sexually charged or bored or incapable, imaginative, passionate or hateful, lively, lusty or invalid, very lifelike people! The choice of these three characters provides him the ideal meat to create such beautiful poetic, intense prose. So much so, that after finishing this novel you rush off to the store and find yet another Lawrence level. (Picked Rainbow, was equally delighted and amazed:), but that is another story)!<br /><br />I think the most important part of this novel is the sheer brilliance of the style in which it is written. Poetic short sentences, with astute comparisons and frank expression, run from sentence to sentence, and sway you in a strong current of his writing, while you are not only enjoying the ride, but also noticing the beautiful, changing, evolving scenery that you encounter at each instant. This is indeed a rich novel, packed with a natural beauty of human emotions and likes and dislikes, with poetic fervor of the writer that will grip any reader with the beauty of his prose. Unlike most other famous novels, this novel is written in simple English, is short in length, readable at breakneck speed, though so charged and passionate that you have to stop to breathe every few pages, and very open and direct, and yet has exceedingly introspective characters, the progression of their thoughts and feelings are inetgral part of the novel.<br /><br />Read it. Sexuality is no more than found on any adult rating moved these days. Beauty of prose one of the best of the authors of last century. If you have always loved 19th century authors, read most of the romantic classics by Bronte sisters, Austen, Dickens or Thackerey, read this novel and notice why Lawrence shocks and yet the brilliance of his work soon shifts the spotlight to his name into one of the most important novelists of last century.but that is another story)! <br /> <br />I think the most important part of this novel is the sheer brilliance of the style in which it is written. Poetic short sentences, with astute comparisons and frank expression, run from sentence to sentence, and sway you in a strong current of his writing, while you are not only enjoying the ride, but also noticing the beautiful, changing, evolving scenery that you encounter at each instant. This is indeed a rich novel, packed with a natural beauty of human emotions and likes and dislikes, with poetic fervor of the writer that will grip any reader with the beauty of his prose. Unlike most other famous novels, this novel is written in simple English, is short in length, readable at breakneck speed, though so charged and passionate that you have to stop to breathe every few pages, and very open and direct, and yet has exceedingly introspective characters, the progression of their thoughts and feelings are inetgral part of the novel.  <br /> <br />Read it. Sexuality is no more than found on any adult rating moved these days. Beauty of prose one of the best of the authors of last century. If you have always loved 19th century authors, read most of the romantic classics by Bronte sisters, Austen, Dickens or Thackerey, read this novel and notice why Lawrence shocks and yet the brilliance of his work soon shifts the spotlight to his name into one of the most important novelists of last century.	2004-11-28
US	40715763	RWI27PMOS55GP	1593080271	289712823	Anna Karenina (Barnes & Noble Classics)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Its lifelike in size, reach and reading!	This is a translated version, and since I cannot read Russian, I cannot tell how well it conveys what Tolstoy really wrote and meant. What I can say after reading this mammoth novel is that it is lifelike. In one book, Tolstoy presents the Russia of late 19th century, the urban Moscow and Petersburg hoi polloi, the rural noblemen and peasantry, politics, religion, horse racing, hunting, balls, love, adultery, heartbreaks, death, birth, marriage and everything else that needs to be put on this masterpiece canvass to create a complete recreation of life.<br /><br />There are three essential characters. Anna Karenina who deserts her husband to live with her lover, Count Vronsky who is a dashing and colonel Anna falls for and Levin who some say is Tolstoy's autobiographical sketch in some ways.<br /><br />This novel has several love stories, developed delightfully in beginning and then these give way to the ground realities of the world and society. In some sense, the novel is like those movies that show everything from birth to death, and hence the delightful childhood, or steamy romance of adulthood become just frames in passing imagery, where the whole is spectacular and full of everything.<br /><br />Through Anna's and Vronsky's stories, set in Moscow and Petersburg, the life of Princes and Princesses comes live with associated gossip, glamor, balls, grand parties, dresses and fashion, and many characters appear and reappear to tell intertwined tales of several lifes. These lifes are of people with money or inheritances, they speak multiple languages, have servants and maids and valets to look after the mundane stuff, have enough time to dwell on questions of social justice, ethics and natural sciences through their eyes that judge from a distance. On the other hand, Levin is a rural nobleman, uncormfortable in the city. His life mixes with the toil of peasants who cut, mow, grow, reap, harvest, and thrash crops. He practically encounters the questions of faith in God, of social justice and enpowerment, of natural sciences  but placed in the other world  of his city relations and friends finds himself wanting with respect to articulating his views on anything and everything.<br /><br />Anna is a complex character: a beautiful women split between multiple roles of mother, wife, sister, lover, social outcast and allows Tolstoy to present a multitude of beautifully created emotions through her. Levin fulfils the role of a thinker and doubter alike, of a \\"nice guys finish last\\" league gentleman, of a compelling person with principles that make him appear unmotivated or worldly inept to uninitiated. Vronsky is to begin with the \\"happy go lucky\\" charmers, and must in his lifetime discover how great love (to others wife) comes at great cost. Without disclosing the story too much, let me just say there are other important and completely developed characters, who have their pieces of life added to serve a grand buffet of possibilities.<br /><br />As a novel that opens the window into life in Russia, this novel will remain an important masterpiece that can also be read for its splendid love stories, for discussions on ethics, politics, faith and morality and for patient reading spread over weeks. It is a classic, a meganovel, and needs time, respect, and patience; but reading a novel of this skill and magnitude is in my view, a delightful experience unmatched by reading dozens of easy read 100 page books we buy as bestsellers in bookstores everwhere. Commit to it, and experience the love, life, flora, fauna, streets, winds and tea in Russia in Tolstoy's masterly detail:)ith in God, of social justice and enpowerment, of natural sciences  but placed in the other world  of his city relations and friends finds himself wanting with respect to articulating his views on anything and everything. <br /> <br />Anna is a complex character: a beautiful women split between multiple roles of mother, wife, sister, lover, social outcast and allows Tolstoy to present a multitude of beautifully created emotions through her. Levin fulfils the role of a thinker and doubter alike, of a \\"nice guys finish last\\" league gentleman, of a compelling person with principles that make him appear unmotivated or worldly inept to uninitiated. Vronsky is to begin with the \\"happy go lucky\\" charmers, and must in his lifetime discover how great love (to others wife) comes at great cost. Without disclosing the story too much, let me just say there are other important and completely developed characters, who have their pieces of life added to serve a grand buffet of possibilities.  <br /> <br />As a novel that opens the window into life in Russia, this novel will remain an important masterpiece that can also be read for its splendid love stories, for discussions on ethics, politics, faith and morality and for patient reading spread over weeks. It is a classic, a meganovel, and needs time, respect, and patience; but reading a novel of this skill and magnitude is in my view, a delightful experience unmatched by reading dozens of easy read 100 page books we buy as bestsellers in bookstores everwhere. Commit to it, and experience the love, life, flora, fauna, streets, winds and tea in Russia in Tolstoy's masterly detail:)	2004-11-27
US	40715763	R2O4ZVD80IAUGS	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A delightfully romantic novel!	Jane Austen's Pride and prejudice is a beautifully written love story, full of humor and life-like imagery. The characters Elizabeth and Mr Darcy are both carved out nicely, with Austen's acute sense about how both men and women think and perceive beauty, love, society. The novel is a compelling read, and for diehard romantics like me, it is irresistable to the end. While Sense and Sensibility moves more slowly, and likewise also dwells on stories of two sisters, there the love stories are presented with maze of other matter. Here the hero must overcome his pride, the heroine must fight a battle with her prejudices, and both then discover not only love in each other but their real selves. Additional stories and people appear perfectly developed in their own roles of lovers, parents, friends, envious relations, grumpy grandmothers, lively teenagers, etc. The drama of a great movie or a soap opera is all here, with Austen's simple and elegant story telling.<br /><br />Many sequences and sentences are purely delightful or extermely hilarious, making the novel one of those reads where you are caught laughing aloud or smiling with twinkle your eyes alone, as you are relishing the new turn of events. While the story is set in Victorian era, the characters, emotions and humor is timeless. The novel is an easy read, fit for travel reading as well as for fun, and trust me, the romantic in you will be raving about it for a long time! In fact, two movies compelled me to reread the novel recently: Gurinder Chadda's Bride and Prejudice that reinvents the classic in a Bollywood flavor and Tom Hanks- Meg Ryan Starrer You've got mail. In You've Got Mail there are repeated references to the novel, and to the extent the opposites attract, and essential elements of novel are concerned, the movie is like a reincarnated version of the novel.<br /><br />Citation from You've Got Mail<br /><br />  Confession: I have read Pride and Prejudice about 200 times. I get lost in the language-words like thither, mischance, felicity. I'm always in agony over whether Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy are really going to get together. Read it - I know you'll love it.<br /><br />Meg Ryan's character, to her anonymous email friend, Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail.<br /><br />(the reference to the movie is for those who have seen and like the movie, else the novel is intrinsically enjoyable, and even for those who have seen this movie or the movie based on the novel, worth spending a fun-filled reading time with.)like thither, mischance, felicity. I'm always in agony over whether Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy are really going to get together. Read it - I know you'll love it.<br /><br />Meg Ryan's character, to her anonymous email friend, Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail.<br /><br />(the reference to the movie is for those who have seen and like the movie, else the novel is intrinsically enjoyable, and even for those who have seen this movie or the movie based on the novel, worth spending a fun-filled reading time with.)	2004-11-27
US	40715763	R15UUOHYW3V415	0060932678	495162113	The Autumn of the Patriarch (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Engrossing, complex, brilliant!	I loved the novel, had to read it very slowly, carefully, and piecemeal and each sentence that I read (actually all are a few pages long) recriprocated in my thoughts till I picked the novel to read the next few sentences. The novel by Marquez is a brilliant piece of imagery that blends the nauseating, dark, dying rule and regime of a tyrant with a poetic wordplay that arouses hatred, pain, sympathy and understanding for the patriarch. The writer has written a story that delights and anguishes at the same time. The protagonist is a dictator who rules with utmost authority, through fear and iron hand but at the same time is a slave of his own power, alone and old, diseased and dying. It takes some effort to grasp the narration style of the suthor, but once a feel is developed for this incredibly complex and intricate writing style, complex emotions and life like experiences enthrall in every sentence. I thought Rushdie was brilliant, Marquez beats him hands down!<br /><br />This is at times a story of unfulfilled love, of solitude, of loneliness at the top, of the extremely spiteful shades of power, of grief that goes uncured, unhealed, of superstitions, lies and naked ugliness of life in corrupt regimes. Artistically, the novel is an endless potrait, with each part beautifully drawn, colored, etched, put together in perfection after painting each part with a tremendous skill, imagination and ability that is both rare to find and emulate. I am sure every avid reader will  be as affected when he reads this incredible novel.	2004-09-26
US	40715763	RIPLRSMJQMKQK	1400034205	579488546	The Razor's Edge	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Throughly enjoyable, and illuminating!	The Razor's Edge is a tale of one man (Larry) who was born and brought up in US, spend many years in Europe, first flying aircrafts in WW I and later living an idiosyncratic existence where he searched for purpose and ambition through books, languages and labor. He later travels to India, and finds solace in the Hindu philosophy, where he also learns how to medidate and be at peace with oneself and the world. Maugham writes a very accurate and engaging account of Hinduism.<br /><br />The novel explores the relationship of various people. The author as a part of story travels in and out of the life of Larry and his friends, and through several conversations that occur intermittenly recreates the story of Larry, Isabel, Gray, Elliot and Sophie. Isabel loves Larry, but Larry's insistance on choosing to loaf and search for the meaning of life and his purpose (and hence living a poor life) and marries Gray, the multimillionaire. Without divulging much details of the story, one can say that the author does a good job in making his characters real and interesting, and presents through them an array of human emotions.<br />The Razor's edge is also a social commentary, and Maugham opens a window into the lifes and times of early twentieth century Upper classes, their constant striving for popularity and for materialistic pleasures, their hopes, and failings. The story is written in a sentiment and style that makes this discussion and critique on classes as invisible score playing somewhere in background.<br />In modern context of the philosophy of science, as say Capra in his Tao of Physics points out, or read Complexity by Waldrop, Eastern and especially Indian ageold wisdom and philosophy resonantes with the new contexts and paradigms in science. The paradigms of having cycles of existence, of evolution and coevolution, of each and every action of every creature affecting everyone else (Butterfly Effect), of uncertainity and unpredictability. Some sentences about Hinduism are particularly well written, say quoting from the book &quot; Can there be anything more stupendous than the conception that the universe has no beginning and no end, but passes everlastingly from growth to equilibrium, from equilibrium to decline, from decline to dissolution, from dissolution to growth, and so on till eternity?&quot;<br />Larry's description resonates with the beliefs and ideas I was taught while growing up in India. And since I have stayed in US for three years now, I guess I read into novel the kind of questions that I have faced: choice between materialism and spiritualism, choice between love and ambition, between my own country and the land of opportunity, of religion and beliefs! If you are a wanderer, and faced with such questions of life and reality, maybe you will love this book as much as I did!<br />It ain't only a love story, does not mean it isn't a good love story. Read it, maybe you will like it too!re particularly well written, say quoting from the book &quot; Can there be anything more stupendous than the conception that the universe has no beginning and no end, but passes everlastingly from growth to equilibrium, from equilibrium to decline, from decline to dissolution, from dissolution to growth, and so on till eternity?&quot;<br />Larry's description resonates with the beliefs and ideas I was taught while growing up in India. And since I have stayed in US for three years now, I guess I read into novel the kind of questions that I have faced: choice between materialism and spiritualism, choice between love and ambition, between my own country and the land of opportunity, of religion and beliefs! If you are a wanderer, and faced with such questions of life and reality, maybe you will love this book as much as I did!<br />It ain't only a love story, does not mean it isn't a good love story. Read it, maybe you will like it too!	2004-05-31
US	40715763	R2L01Z1S5TMU27	0671872346	970132728	COMPLEXITY: THE EMERGING SCIENCE AT THE EDGE OF ORDER AND CHAOS	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Wonderful reading for every science enthusiast!	The cover of the book says &quot; If you liked Chaos, you will love complexity&quot;. I just finished reading the book, that validated the claim. While Chaos is written as story of discovery of a new science, Complexity excels as a saga of men who ventured into previously unchartered domains addressing for the first time issues like:<br />What is life? What is driving force that caused cells to appear from a primordal soup of all elements, when the probability of so happening is infinitesimal? What causes evolution? Do nice guys finish last? What makes evolution, coevolution, adaptation, extinction work? Why do we organize ourselves into families, cultures, nations?<br />Why do stock markets crash, boom? What controls the emergence of economies? Why can USSR go from one of strongest nations/economies to the state of divided helplessness in less than a few years?<br />Why are we here? What is life? Artificial Life? Are we still evolving? What is the cause of increasing complexity?<br />On mundane level: What is non-linearity? What is Chaos? If this science is all that important, why did we wait this long for recognizing it?<br />What are the paradigms in which sociology and physics settle into same patterns? How neural networks were born, brought up and mastered?<br />This novel/book is as much about these questions as it is about the scientists who engaged in unravelling many of these mysteries. It speaks about their failures and successes, their approach, ethic and driving force, their fears, fights and friendships. For most part it reads like a thriller, and by the time you are done, you find yourself searching for another book on Chaos, complexity, life at the edge of chaos, genetic algorithms, artificial intelligence. After just 358 pages, your imagination and knowledge of science leaps from Newton's linear models to the twentyfirst century stuff.	2004-05-22
US	40715763	R1G84X4R2VL8LV	0679730257	604446569	All You Who Sleep Tonight: Poems	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Poetry and wit with Seth's brilliance!	All you who sleep tonight<br />Far from the ones you love,<br />No hand to left or right<br />And emptiness above -<br />Know that you aren't alone<br />The whole world shares your tears,<br />Some for two nights or one,<br />And some for all their years.<br />  -- Vikram Seth<br />Vikram Seth is a poet par excellence. For each one who has savored his Suitable boy or An equal music or From Heaven's Lake or The Golden Gate, this collection of poems offers another set of witty, candid, lyrical and highly artistic writing. The poet writes about love in all forms, and poems are short and beautiful, the one mentioned here my perennial favorite!	2004-05-20
US	40715763	R3M6FP6K7ONCHL	0856355836	631445933	The Humble Administrator's Garden	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Lyrical imagery from China, India and California!	Research in Jiangsu Province<br />The Yangtse flows on like brown tape.<br />The research forms take final shape,<br />Each figure like a laden boat<br />With white or madder sails afloat.<br />Float on, float on, O facts and facts,<br />Distilled compendia of past acts,<br />Reveal the Grand Design to me,<br />Flotilla of my PhD.<br />In this collection, Vikram Seth has poetry and imagery from China, India and America. The poetry is heartfelt and marked by Vikram Seth's penchant for using simple words to recreate truth, beauty and magic!	2004-05-20
US	40715763	R2SFJCWOJV5Y5B	0486424499	363093333	Jane Eyre (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Romantic classic!	Charlotte Bronte takes a plain Jane, and makes her one of the most memorable characters from the likes of Bronte sisters. This novel starts at a boarding school, as we learn of Jane's painful childhood, grows into an exciting love story as governness Jane falls for Mr Rochester, (whose daughter she tutors), and after a lot of twists, drama, separation and engrossing trains of events Jane finds home, love and happiness.<br />I have had read the abridged version at age of 11, and loved it then. Over the years, I have repeatedly reread the novel. Like all classics, everytime I read it, it offers an array of previously unfelt emotions and of course remains as enchanting as ever. To say very least, it is like your favorite soap opera that you watched while growing up, has characters and events you nearly can never forget, and due to its ageless charm, you revisit those times and emotions through all the reruns and remakes. Maybe the weight of my years of association makes this novel unforgettable for me, but trust me, read it and you will definitely feel the romance, the pain, the emotion, the passion: and maybe like me, return to read it again!	2004-05-19
US	40715763	RUCWDLFGBLGV8	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent and exciting glimpse into chaos!	Chaos is a profound book. It provides you a new pair of glasses that changes completely how you look at this world. For anyone with even a little background in mathematics and physics, or rather a taste for science, this book provides a stimulating compilation on emergence of non-linear science. The story is written imbibing the usually unsung scientists as heroes of a vibrant saga of discovery, eccentricity and revolution of ideas.<br /><br />Personally when I first read this book an year ago, I was able to comprehend that non-linear dynamics and chaos present a new set of tools to describe systems in all realms of science. The study of chaos contains keys to understanding our nature better. How beautiful complexity in form and patterns is described and interpreted through the chaos theory both awes and fascinates me. An year later I am still trying to understand the detailed mathematics of chaos and nonlinear dynamics, but I feel an excitement for which I must thank Gleick! And not surprisingly, I have now moved to fluids' research with an open mind about possibilities in the domains of nonlinearty.<br /><br />Like I Ching said, \\"Before the beginning of great brilliance, there must be chaos\\". Maybe as Gleick claims, Chaos will be rated just below relativity and quantum mechanics as the key discoveries of last century. Read it: it is fun!<br />(May 16/ 2004)	2004-05-17
US	40715763	RAE83JR0DJXHX	0060950242	751719239	Three Chinese Poets	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Translated ideas can impress too!	I picked this book primarily because after reading both verse and prose from the author, I know the translation would make a great reading. It did. I liked the poetry, the ideas, and whatever Chinese poets must have thought about was communicated as well as possible in well-compiled text. I cannot read or understand Chinese, but my Chinese friends found the translations to be inadequate and half-hearted representations of what they described as timeless, classic poetry. Knowing the difficulty in faithfully representing a different culture for an author, and the complexity of translation of any verse, cultures, times and metaphors, I think Vikram Seth as always did a commendable job. For real taste of his poetic genius, read The Golden gate or All you who sleep tonight!	2004-05-17
US	40715763	RD7R3JDFJAT94	0750306483	211210424	The Pursuit of Perfect Packing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Introduction to mysteries and myths of packing!	The text is packed with both 'ordered' and 'disordered' discussions of several packing problems that arise in daily life as well as in crystallography, physics and abstract mathematics. A book serves as a nice introduction to the solved and the unsolved mysteries and myths of packing problems.  The enthusiasm of Aste and Weaire is infectious, and the reach of concepts described here is far ranging and deep. Yet the text itself an easy read, perhaps even high school kids can enjoy it, though graduate students and teachers will find it most illuminating and informative!<br />(May 11/ 2004)	2004-05-11
US	40715763	R9XDIVKKDXGUR	0521794501	364369998	Principles of Condensed Matter Physics	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Exhaustive treatment of soft matter physics!	Given my training as an engineer in undergraduate avatar and as a polymer scientist in my graduate school (enrolled into a PhD program now), I find this book a challenging endevour. It presupposes in-depth knowledge of quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics, and the chapters are written in a style which makes it most beneficial/suitable for Physics graduate students. Nonetheless, since every serious student in material science and polymer physics must indeed become comfortable with the theoretical concepts underlying soft matter physics, this book is a delightful (and hardcore!) introduction to the concepts of correlation functions, symmetry laws, conservation principles, phase transitions and critical phenomenon, topological defects, etc. The book by RAL Jones can provide a quick introduction to phenomenon and principles encountered in the book. But to master the trade, to become comfortable with notation used in papers, to understand the math, to make yourself a soft matter physicist, this book provides matter, paradigms and principles in comprehensive manner.<br /><br />Specifically. this book is an essential reading for people studying physics of crystals, liquid crystals, quasi-crystals, amorphous materials, polymers and magnetically ordered systems. Specific chapters/sections on energy and potentials, structure and scattering,  mean field theories, renormalization group theory, generalized elasticity, dynamics with emphasis on correlation & response functions, hydrodynamics with discussion on broken symmetries and fluctuation-dissipation formalism, and on wall, kinks and solitons are written with advanced readers in mind. Each chapter and topic can be appreaciated by additional reading from a textbook each in Statistical Mechanics (Pathria), Electrodynamics (Slater and Frank), Quantum Mechanics, liquid crystals (Chandrashekar or de gennes, polymers (Doi, de gennes) and scattering (neutron-Higgins, light-Pecora). Like potential readers, I am myself a student, just starting on this daunting but worthwhile study of condensed matter.<br /><br />(07 March 2004)t starting on this daunting but worthwhile study of condensed matter.    (07 March 2004)	2004-03-07
US	40715763	R1EM445VIBWSH7	0198517858	541869604	The Physics of Liquid Crystals (International Series of Monographs on Physics)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Bible for liquid crystals!	Like every book by de Gennes, this book is a classic! This latest edition in a &quot;must have&quot; text for everyone even remotely associated with liquid crystals. The text is written in a self contained fashion, but the mathematics and physics is of advanced level, and to fully appreciate the content one must have some grip on statistical mechanics, tensor and vector algebra, electromagnetism and continuum physics. Thus it is ideal for physicists, a rewarding challenge for chemists and starting researchers.<br />To get a simple understanding of liquid crystals (without chemical and mathematical equations), a text by Peter J. Collins (Liquid Crystals: Nature's delicate phase of matter) is highly recommended. For people interested in synthesis of liquid crystals, this text has almost nothing to offer and maybe another text by Collins is more useful. Another important text on the physics of liquid crystals is by Chandershekar. But bottomline is while you may want to look at other texts for specific needs (synthesis or display devices), The Physics of Liquid Crystals by de Gennes is the book one must have and one must read to make a living in this area. (of course, I will read the whole text too....)	2004-03-04
US	40715763	R2OXDS10HFEHBJ	0486661105	348640999	Vectors, Tensors and the Basic Equations of Fluid Mechanics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Not for the weakhearted!	This is one of those pithy classics that one needs to tread through very very carefully. The book is an uphill task, wherein rests its utility and fun. Fluid Mechanics in its simplified diluted version is served in many OTHER textbooks. This one serves it in its raw mathematical glory, and as the author says in the preface of the book, any serious engineer and fluid mechanician must realize that math must be befriended and mastered. The author makes very terse, and powerful introduction to the field. I would recommend a physicist to supplement it with a text by Faber, for Chemical Engineer to study it after the famous BSL (Transport Phenomenon), for a mathematician to pick it on any day, and for everyone in general to approach it with determination required to climb a rocky terrain. (Ah! I guess I would write an even better review if and when I finish reading it:)	2004-02-26
US	40715763	R1CTUSX59A5QHC	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A novel of epic proportions!	The length, the size, the number of characters, the descriptions; Vikram Seth here succeeds in re-creating life of several characters into a highly acclaimed and engrossing novel. The story is simple, as is his narration, so the reading fast forwards through various people and several episodes that span nearly all human emotions. I would not discuss the characters here, for I would recommend just about everyone to commit himself to this book and see them for himself. The characters are people drawn from common lives, and he creates very vivid personas, describing in picturesque detail their houses, streets, odors, colors and both successes and failings. The sheer volume of labor that author must have put in to create this masterful  epic is mind boggling. The story is set in India, and for anyone who searches for words while describing his country and people, Vikram Seth sets a defining example.	2004-02-22
US	40715763	RJXB5TSQZNCS9	0486264785	586166490	The Importance of Being Earnest	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Class Act!! Hilarious!!!	Oscar Wilde here excels in wit. Its funnier that any piece ever written, or maybe funnier than anything I have ever encountered. The play is very interesting comedy of errors, full of hilarious suspense, and by the end, when everything falls into place, one happily bows to the Importance of being earnest. The dialogue is full of anecdotes worth citing, and trust me you would return to read this play more than once.<br />Some examples to give you the flavor:<br />ALGERNON The truth is rarely pure and never simple. Modern life would be very tedious if it were either, and modern literature a complete impossibility!<br />or this dialogue:<br />JACK Well, yes, I must admit I smoke.<br />LADY BRACKNELL I am glad to hear it. A man should always have an occupation of some kind. There are far too many idle men in London as it is. How old are you?<br />JACK Twenty-nine.<br />LADY BRACKNELL A very good age to be married at. I have always been of opinion that a man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing. Which do you know?<br />JACK [After some hesitation.] I know nothing, Lady Bracknell.<br />LADY BRACKNELL I am pleased to hear it. I do not approve of anything that tampers with natural ignorance. Ignorance is like a delicate exotic fruit; touch it and the bloom is gone. The whole theory of modern education is radically unsound. Fortunately in England, at any rate, education produces no effect whatsoever. If it did, it would prove a serious danger to the upper classes, and probably lead to acts of violence in Grosvenor Square. What is your income?<br />or maybe this one:<br />JACK I have lost both my parents.<br />LADY BRACKNELL To lose one parent, Mr. Worthing, may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose both looks like carelessness.<br />or try this:)<br />JACK Well, will you go if I change my clothes?<br />ALGERNON Yes, if you are not too long. I never saw anybody take so long to dress, and with such little result.<br />JACK Well, at any rate, that is better than being always over- dressed as you are.<br />ALGERNON If I am occasionally a little over-dressed, I make up for it by being always immensely over-educated.is better than being always over- dressed as you are.<br />ALGERNON If I am occasionally a little over-dressed, I make up for it by being always immensely over-educated.	2004-02-22
US	40715763	R22VO7KC8BICX6	0486415864	365726027	Great Expectations (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A novel to pine for!	I was just 10 years old, when I first read an abridged version of this Dickens Classic. I must have read it many times since, and everytime I read it, I am filled with array of emotions, and a deep respect for the author. Pip, the hero, is a character that embodies hopes, disappointments and dreams of every boy. As he narrates his life, we grow with him, see many people come in and go out of his life, and we feel with him his emotions and predicaments. Life is full of surprises, unexpected twists and turns, and this novel is a great chronicle of the possibilities of fate. But most importantly, this is a story of pining... and a novel worth pining for.<br />Miss Havisham, the old lady, epitomizes eccentricity, while Estella in her cold abandon represents every heartbreaker. This story is about pining, about love, about friendship (especially Pip and Joe, and later Pip and Herbert), about relationships, and most importantly about what one feels and lives by. Like all Dickens novels, this is a very well written story, and is much more engrossing than any of its on screen versions. This is a story that must be read at leisure and it must be failing of the reader to try and compare it with some cheap paperback that one can scram through while watching a movie and munching chips and cola. Classics deserve respect, attention and concentration: dedicate yourself to one, and trust me you will discover a lot more. A lot more about the novel and a lot more about your own self.<br />We all have Great Expectations, and this one by Dickens beats them all!!	2004-02-22
US	40715763	R2HQ6MOX0FMZ95	0486622630	458932281	Electromagnetism (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Excellent text on Electromagnetism!	This book is worth buying for two good reasons 1) its an excellent treatment of extremely important concepts of electricity, magnetism and interaction of light with matter and 2) because its very affordable and very readable. Its good read for physicists, and its more than useful for material and / or polymer scientists, who use light as a tool to investigate properties of matter. Basic concepts are explained quite well here, and like many other Dover texts, it is terse, cheap and yet masterful.	2004-02-21
US	40715763	R19I6IFMVHZTOC	0316136778	880267532	Love and Longing in Bombay: Stories	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fantastic stories of ordinary people!	Five stories, with a common narrator, and a common city: Bombay. Each story is gripping and astonishingly well-written. While someone here commented that the praise is overblown, I feel its greatly deserved. Since the tale is set in an Indian city, with Indian characters, perhaps one needs to be a little aware of our social and cultural beliefs and lifestyle. Other than that, one finds the stories to be global and timeless, with fleeting feeling of pain and longing, and a certain satisfaction in reading superbly narrated stories about what we encounter so often. The stories are written in an uncommon but erudite style, and I find myself returning to re-read the stories every now and then. For someone who loved Vikram Seth, this another Vikram provides another masterpiece handpicked from the ordinary lifes of ordinary men.	2004-01-12
US	40715763	R2A8TMY5ISQ587	0139777458	15576512	Molecular Thermodynamics of Fluid-Phase Equilibria (3rd Edition)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Smith &amp; Van Hess preferable!	This book is used as graduate text for GTech, ChBE course, and suffices in context of summarizing a large amount of material on fugacities in mixtures, empirical methods used for prediction and analysis of phase euilibria problems. With no previous exposure to Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics, I found Smith and Van Hess to be greatly helpful in explaining basic concepts, and providing a lucid, logical development of the subject. While Prausnitz dwells at length on the behavior of mixtures, the development of the subject leaves one wanting for a lot more, and hence this book will always need atleat one complementary text like Smith's book to be a useful text. The topics explained really well in the text include fugacities in gas and liquid mixtures, and calculation of solubilities of solids or gases in liquids. Other areas of thermodynamics are either ignored or coverage is sketchy (for examples treatment of polymers, electrolytes, use of statistical mechanics, etc).	2004-01-12
US	40715763	RTQL7PJW6BO87	0141439556	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A passionate saga of love and hate!	Bronte's Wuthering Heights is a haunting story of love and hate, where human emotions and passions are presented through a range of excellently developed characters. The story is taut, the narrative is engrossing, and the novel has all the drama to make excellent movies. The novel is an underrated study of human psychology, of love, of jealously, contempt, revenge and of character and how it transforms through time and relationships. People call it the greatest novel of unrequited love; it definitely potrays love, hatred and melancholy in the same vein. Perhaps Heathcliff, who loves and hates with all the harshness of his character, leaves a lasting impact on reader's fancy, to make a memory of this novel as one about only hatred and unrequited love. Read it to discover the passions that makes this Bronte novel a classic.	2003-12-20
US	40715763	RTOA15PXD8RNV	0679734570	376586458	The Golden Gate	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A splendid work!	Vikram Seth has a brilliant style, where ordinary words, events and people stand up and potray emotions in delicate detail. His wit, and wordplay apart, this novel in verse is a fine story of love and loss. Once I read this novel, I found myself reading everything that the author has published yet. Each book written in a different style, and on different substance, Seth is both engrossing and endearing. I believe with Rushdie, Vikram Seth is perhaps the most erudite Indian writer in English of post-colonial world! Though unlike Rushdie, Vikarm speaks in soft and simple language, and addressing so many different styles (travel book, longest novel in English, poetry, novel in verse, novel set in 1950-60s India, novel set in San Fransisco, and London, and Tibet, etc) with such mastery is a mark of his genius.	2003-12-19
US	40715763	R1FPGJJ50QZ8VR	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engrossing story of Love and war!	Farewell to arms stands and delivers, an engrossing story of love and loss in backdrop of WWI. Henry, the narrator, falls in love with Catherine, an English nurse. The prose is taut, and straightforward. Without preaching, without fancy wordplay, Hemmingway presents a picturesque description of war and retreat, places in Italy and Switzerland, of wartime hospital and military mess. The undercurrent is anti-war, and the novel does its bit to expound the myths that war is glorious and patriotic. Conversations between Henry and Catherine are delightfully simple, and endearing. This book is also a tale of heroism, where courage of a man and woman are highlighted in the bravado shown in their daily life.	2003-12-19
US	40715763	R16WTLLPQJJTQM	0195097181	663755820	Optical Rheometry of Complex Fluids (Topics in Chemical Engineering)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;The book&quot; for rheo-optics!	The book, perhaps the only one of its kind in this field, presents the theory of optical rheometry or rheo-optics in its most savage mathematical, logical, comprehensive and self-contained form. The chapters progress through series of equations, and the challenging journey through these is enlightening. The book discusses polarization, dichroism, scattering and optical instrumentation to elucidiate the physics involved in describing a range of complex fluid dynamics. This is an advanced text, useful for researchers and students determined to understand complex fluid dynamics and optical methods that allow watching structure/dynamics under imposed external fields. It is perhaps a good idea to read the last chapter on case studies and applications before indulging in the first nine, and re-read the chapter 10 with all theory read and understood.	2003-12-16
US	40715763	R1C8TPDHH5Q8UY	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sweet, beautiful, touching!	A few novels moved me thus. Narrated by a child, the book moves in a slow, but sure pace through the life and times of 1930s Alabama town, the treacheries and hypocrisies of grown up world becoming evident to a child. The narrative &quot;kills you softly&quot;, till tears sparkle in your eyes, for the novel is written in a very meaningful style, in a way where events, ideas and words touch your heart, stir you into thinking, and on the surface the author seems to be going around telling a very simple story, and that too in plain English, straightforward sentences.<br />Recommended reading for everyone!	2003-11-29
US	40715763	R2D2KUG54QTHEX	0198505906	548022653	Soft Condensed Matter	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Excellent text for appreciating beauty of soft matter!	The chapters are written in straightforward language, conveying essential ideas and fundamentals in very readable manner. The book illustrates how one can convey complex ideas in simple words and yet capture all intricacies of the subject. The book is self contained introduction to colloids, polymers, liquid crystals, self-assembly, crystallization, glass transition, phase behavior and gelation. I have not encountered a better book that presents such a rich overview of these vastly different yet interrelated domain of condensed matter physics in less than 200 pages.<br />Since the book was written fairly recently, it presents a very modern understanding of described topics. The book by Chaikin and Lubensky (~700 pages) is the one written for anyone interested in meaty details, and equations in their full grandeur. Strobl's recent book on condensed matter is another excellent  text and presents lots of physics in very well written graduate level text. But to taste and tempt into soft matter, Jones book definitely is the one to pick!	2003-11-23
US	40715763	R2B3SPH4OTCRSY	0471329215	707175650	Introduction to Physical Polymer Science, 3rd Edition	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Best beginners book in market!!	Sperling's book stands out as the most useful polymer science text, compiling essential elements of varied physical properties and behaviour. The third edition has up to date material on all aspects of polymer physics including chapters on polymer surfaces and interfaces as well as on multicomponent polymer systems and liquid crystalline polymers. In my opinion, as a beginners guide, the book is definitely outscores over all other texts in market including Billmeyer, Painter Coleman, Rodriquez, etc. The book also contains a good description of various polymer characterization techniques.<br />The material covered is adequate to provide basic information about each field in polymer physics, and the textbook has enough material to be useful for two or three courses. The author presents a lot of tables in the book, that succintly summarize important points related to that topic. Coupled with Strobl's book, which has slightly advanced description of polymer physics, and Doi's Introduction to polymer physics, which has mathematically intensive description of statistical mechanics of polymers, you have three texts to teach you essentially everything there is to know in Polymer Physics!! (Perhaps you can add a text for Polymer Rheology, say by Larson!)	2003-11-07
US	40715763	R39F8UB0S8PWUZ	0471048941	429157938	Viscoelastic Properties of Polymers, 3rd Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A treasure!	Viscoelastic properties of polymers includes a very detailed description of polymer rheology, covering both the mechanical aspects of rheometers, as well as the description of molecular basis of viscoelasticity. The book is highly recommended to everyone embarking on a career in polymer viscoelasticity. Ferry has essentially compiled all the important material relevant to polymer viscoelasticity, and hence the chapters serve as excellent reviews of respective fields. Since the last edition is well over 20 years old, many recent aspects of viscoelaticity are not present in the book (quite understandable:))! Nevertheless, this book is a must have to delve into viscoelaticity, the knowledge and its evolution.	2003-11-07
US	40715763	R2GX1A7KNW0794	0312254997	934580598	The Ground Beneath Her Feet: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Its rock and roll baby!	Salman Rushdie writes yet another literary extravaganza, full of word plays, symponies of metaphors and a very interesting tale of love, music and twentieth century world. Recommended to anyone who has apetite for heavy reading, for in Rushdie's writing you need to savor the story frame by frame, page by page, sentence by sentence. Complexity is integral to this novel as well, but for someone who has read Midnight Children, Moors Last Sigh and/or Satanic Verses, this book presents a very interesting and simpler read: for its a typical Rushdie novel, with all the drama and absurdities of rock and roll and a very fine love story! Characteristic Rushdie wit keeps you humored, and density of work occupied!!!!<br />PS: Never read Rushdie if you fancy reading 100 page novels in a hours time!!! Reading Rushdie is an effort, but trust me, a worthwhile one!	2003-11-03
US	40715763	R6QIQE0574UB5	0471610208	110062257	Principles of Polymerization, 3rd Edition	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Must read for polymer chemistry!	Odian offers a comprehensive guide to polymer chemistry, covering nearly all the types of polymerization, exploring radical, ionic, step, and copolymerization mechanisms and kinetics in sufficient detail. Some recent advances in polymer synthesis are not covered, but book offers enough knowledge to have a good grasp of all aspects of polymerizations. A must read for anyone considering a career or education in polymer synthesis!	2003-10-31
US	40715763	R1TWEPV18YZR4O	3527268251	780460824	Materials Science and Technology: A Comprehensive Treatment, Vol. 12, Structure and Properties of Polymers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Extensive and comprehensive approach to polymeric materials!	The book comprises of excellent chapters on crystallization, phase separation, viscoelasticity, optical properties, failure and yielding, liquid crystalline polymers, polymer surfaces, etc written by experts like Doi, Hashimoto, Lotz, Suter, Williams, Eby, Tirell, etc.<br />Thus this book provides comprehensive material to understand above topics, and can be used as an excellent reference text to dig relevant literature cited and reviewed here. I believe that each chapter in this book gives  material and insight comparable to a full graduate level course, and hence recommend the book for readers at all levels of understanding!!	2003-10-23
US	40715763	R1ZFLRBI34PFEO	0801401348	283093276	Principles of Polymer Chemistry (The George Fisher Baker Non-Resident Lectureship in Chemistry at Cornell University)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Classic!!	A comprehensive guide to Polymers by the Nobel winning Flory himself!!! The book came out over half a century back, and hence understandably contains a lot of material that has been revised and is now understood differently. Still the book continues to be an essential read for anyone interested in polymer science, and knowledge of how Flory developed and demonstrated several key ideas used in everyday polymer science. Not recommended as a textbook for beginners, but as reference book for anyone planning to delve deeper into the subject!	2003-09-25
US	40715763	R87XZYMBC2CSD	080141203X	533810720	Scaling Concepts in Polymer Physics	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Excellent treatise on scaling concepts!	de Gennes  is one of the most eminent polymer physicists of our times, and this book is perhaps the most significant book in polymer physics. All books by this author are treasures of knowledge, concepts introduced in simple, yet elegant way. A must read for anyone who wishes to appreciate the structure and dynamics of polymeric materials!	2003-05-03
US	40715763	R2WXVQJ5H3JDLK	3540632034	623143574	The Physics of Polymers: Concepts for Understanding Their Structures and Behavior	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A comprehensive polymer physics book!	This is a comprehensive polymer physics book, each chapter is well written with adequate depth of coverage. Most definitely the book one must pick to delve into dynamics, thermodynamics, scattering and crystallization, and get to the level of appreciating the complexity and beauty of current research and understanding in the field of polymer physics. Highly recommended!	2003-01-02
US	40715763	RIDT3NKH8YNYV	0198520336	731399189	The Theory of Polymer Dynamics (International Series of Monographs on Physics)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Classic	Excellent book: but to grasp everything one will need to read through a few simpler texts first, say Scaling Concepts by de Gennes, Introduction to Polymer Physics by Doi, some Rheology book say Viscoelastic properties of Polymers by Ferry and Polymer Solutions by I Teraoka.	2002-08-04
US	40715763	R2U6OA7XQY47RJ	0198517890	554655398	Introduction to Polymer Physics	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Prelude to Doi-Edward's Theory of Polymer Dynamics	The finest aspect of the book is its thickness; in just over 100 pages Doi essentially summarises everything in Polymer Dynamics. In some sense the book is meant as a bridge between the graduate level courses on Polymer Dynamics/Physics and book: The Theory of Polymer Dynamics and hence is assessible only with some background on basics. Nevertheless its serves its purpose pretty well.	2002-08-01
