US	40846637	R3QBE1R4IX0ACW	0689848641	573730484	Witch-Hunt: Mysteries of the Salem Witch Trials	Books	4	23	24	N	N	A Worthy Addition to the Field	Witch-Hunt is a solid and fascinating work which encapsulates the facts and theories surrounding the Salem Witch Trials. Aronson begins the book by stating his objective: to correct false information and assumptions that have grown up around the trials (and the events leading up to them). Although this kind of demythologizing does occur, Aronson is more focused on summarizing and comparing the opinions, theories and research of various scholars on why the Salem Witch Trials happened than on battling specific falsehoods. <br />Aronson leans towards the more rational and psychological explanations for the Salem Witch Trials, but he mentions many others, from the theory that there were truly witches in Salem to the theory that the accusers were entangled in a deliberate conspiracy to defraud their victims. <br />Aronson's careful presentation of the facts and theories should be applauded, especially his portrayal of the Puritans. Rather than portraying the Puritans as a warped society holding strange beliefs, he works to pull the reader into the Puritan world. The Puritans' beliefs and struggles become real and comprehensible. Aronson demonstrates too that those who spoke out against the trials (and eventually stopped them) were products of the same community and same religious convictions as the accusers.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone studying the Salem Witch Trials, before or after reading other material.	2004-04-15
US	40846637	R368E9HKHNG04V	0525945962	510565103	The Poet and the Murderer: A True Story of Literary Crime and the Art of Forgery	Books	2	9	16	N	N	Could Have Been A Better Book	Literary forgeries are a  fascinating topic. The Mark Hofmann case has all the characteristics of a CSI episode with the   additional fascinating exploration of the unique subculture of  document collectors. Worrall has chosen the forgery of an Emily Dickinson poem by Mark Hofmann as his starting point. <br />Unfortunately, his material runs out by about the second chapter, and he reverts instead to a summary of Mormon culture and Mormon history. Obstensibly, this is to give a background to the forger, Hofmann, but I have the feeling it was simply a way of adding another 10,000 words. <br />I was unhappily forced to this conclusion because the summary is so incredibly inaccurate. As a comparison, check out Lindsey's The Gathering of Saints, which is critical of the Mormon church and of the Utah Mormon culture but is also sympathetic to the bind in which the Mormon leaders found themselves. Lindsey, an intelligent reporter, is sensitive to the conflicts within a religious community and within human beings, and he perceptively illustrates how    the Mormon values of both obedience and education will inevitably clash. <br />Additionally, he never makes the mistake--as does Worrall--of thinking that Mark Hofmann's forgeries and his brutal murders gain legitimacy simply because they hurt the Mormon church. One gets the impression from The Poet and the Murderer that Worrall admires Hoffmann, whatever he might say to the contrary. <br />In conclusion, the book was a disappointment. I was looking forward to an in-depth examination  of Hofmann's Americana forgeries and instead found myself reading a mishmash of anti-Mormon literature. It isn't simply that such religion-bashing lacks class, it also makes the rest of Worrall's research suspect. <br />Recommendation: If you are really into Hofmann or literary forgeries, pick up the book at the library and check out the first couple of chapters about the Emily Dickinson forgery. Remember, the facts are suspect, and I wouldn't trust anything Worrall has written about Emily Dickinson herself,    but the provenance of the poem is pretty interesting.	2002-12-04
US	40846637	R3ENZEJWOFJQ6U	0312975120	293477341	The Unexpected Guest (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Not a Christie Despite the Name	I am of the opinion that this book and Black Coffee were written to capitalize on the Christie name. Of course, a lot of things have been written that capitalize on the Christie name, but to capitalize on the Christie name and to not do it well is hard to tolerate. <br />The Unexpected Guest and Black Coffee were both plays before they were novels, and they read like plays. Christie herself often altered novels to plays and plays to novels, but she had an instinctive understanding of both genres and was able to make the necessary alterations, cuts or  expansions. So much so that the book Ten Little Indians and the play Ten Little Indians have different endings. This is also true of Witness for the Prosecution and a host of other novellas, stories, novels and their plays. <br />The novels The Unexpected Guest and Black Coffee, however, are simply plays with the tags &quot;he said&quot; and &quot;she said&quot; thrown in. The descriptions sound like prop instructions. The flavor of Christie's prose--the nuances, tangents, discussions of character, the humor, the &quot;twinkle&quot; (for lack of a better word)--is missing. <br />Charles Osborne meant well, I think, but the transformation of Christie's plays to novel form should either have been given to a writer of Christie's temperament and ability (as  Sayers' Throne and Dominations was expertly finished by Jill Paton Walsh) or not attempted at all. The result is definitely sup-par. <br />Recommendation: For fans, anything Christie appeals, but keep your expectations low.	2002-10-23
US	40846637	R31VQQLA3EV53L	0316031259	851876340	Very Much a Lady: The Untold Story of Jean Harris and Dr. Herman Tarnower	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A CSI of Psychology	Shana Alexander's Very Much a Lady and Diana Trilling's Mrs. Harris: The Death of the Scarsdale Diet Doctor are complementary books about a fascinating case: the murder of Dr. Tarnower by his lover Jean Harris.<br />It is Jean Harris' motive in killing Dr. Tarnower that interests these two writers. Jean Harris was neither psychotic nor particularly violent. In some ways, she seemed the classic example of the woman wronged. In other ways, she seemed the classic example of the 1950s woman coping uneasily and unsuccessfully in the changed world of the 1980s and in still other ways, she seemed the eternal victim of circumstance. <br />Both writers agree that the punishment did not fit the crime. Mrs. Harris did not intend to kill Dr. Tarnower and in law, intent does matter. Shana Alexander spends more time than Diana Trilling in exploring the mistakes made by the defense (such as their refusal to plead to a lesser charge), and she is more critical of the prosecution. Both writers, however, are primarily interested in Jean Harris' character. Their differing approaches regarding the latter are at the heart of these similar, yet ultimately distinct, books.  <br />Shana Alexander is an objective partisan. She is honest about Jean Harris' flaws, but it is clear both from her tone and the accumulation of biographical information that she considers Jean Harris not as a victim but as a basically sane and not unlikable human being pushed beyond her limits by her culture, her background, her medical history and her own psychology. She doesn't exculpate Jean Harris but neither does she condemn her. <br />Diana Trilling, on the other hand, is far less partisan and far more critical. She sees in Jean Harris a woman who sacrificed her intellectual integrity for a sordid affair. She is disgusted by Mrs. Harris' behavior during the trial and appalled by the letter written by Mrs. Harris to Dr Tarnower before the killing (and never actually read by him). Shana Alexander, on the other hand, while agreeing that the letter condemned Mrs. Harris in the eyes of the jury (even in the evidence did not) bemoans the lack of prescience by Jean Harris' defense in presenting the letter in court. Her defense, Shana Alexander argues, did not understand Jean Harris and were therefore unable to successfully present the problems of the case both to Jean Harris herself and to the jury. <br />The similarities and differences between Shana Alexander and Diana Trilling make their two books excellent complements. I recommend reading Diana Trillling's book first since it is the \\"outsider's\\" take on the case. Shana Alexander's book then will give the reader a closer look at a troubled woman and a bizarre, perhaps avoidable, tragedy.	2002-10-23
US	40846637	R1OWXWO8HLAI13	0451452011	915129613	Red Dwarf: Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Better Than the Show--Almost	Oddly enough, this book would have been better if it hadn't been based on the show. <br />Don't get me wrong. I love Red Dwarf. The cast is great. The dialog is hilarious and there's plenty of meaning-of-life moments for those of us who are into that kind of thing. <br />That said, the translation between mediums, film to page, is awkward. The dialog sounds spliced in--&quot;That's right, that bit goes here.&quot; It is possible that if I wasn't familiar with the show, I wouldn't mind so much. I wouldn't experience the deja vu of &quot;Oh, that's the episode where . . . &quot; &quot;Oh, I remember that part.&quot; My mind wouldn't leave the self-sustaining world of the book and veer off into TV-land. Call it lack of concentration on my part but the process became a tad schizophrenic. I began to separate TV Lister from Book Lister, when it fact the book deepens Lister's character but doesn't really alter it. <br />THAT said, the non-show-bits of Red Dwarf are excellent, stupendous. Naylor's prose flows smoothly and intelligently. He has a real gift for creating character and has notable insights into life, the nature of. Rimmer, played excellently on the show by Chris Barrie, is given all the depth--the pathos-- that the conditions of 30-minute episodes simply don't allow for. In some ways, Rimmer is more central to the book than Lister but don't let that put you off. Naylor uses Rimmer's character to illuminate Lister's character and vice versa. (As the major third character at this point, you learn more about the Cat in terms of biographical information but not much more in terms of character. But what, after all, can top Danny John-Jules' stellar performance?) <br />Recommendation: Definitely buy it.	2002-09-10
US	40846637	R38N2W082PB2OR	0385488734	586626843	The Forgiving Self: The Road from Resentment to Connection	Books	4	48	50	N	N	Sweet Voice of Perceptive Reason	I found this book perceptive and personally helpful. <br />Robert Karen is careful, at the beginning of the book, to make clear his intentions. He is not using forgiveness as a blanket application nor is he discussing the forgiveness of great atrocities (the Holocaust, 9/11, etc.) or the forgiveness of such terrible violations as sexual, physical and verbal abuse. He is exploring, rather, forgiveness as a step towards wholeness: the recognition that people can be both lovable and infuriating, that we ourselves can be flawed and yet worthwhile. Karen is encouraging the reader to move beyond \\"good guy--bad guy\\" tags, to accept that people--our parents, ourselves--can be imperfect without being the enemy.  <br />This acceptance and recognition, Karen makes clear, is a process. He is not advocating forgiveness as something easy or instantaneous or even, sometimes, appropriate. Forgiving, from Karen's point of view, is a dialog, whether it is a dialog with another person or with our past. The hallmark of this kind of forgiveness is honesty--to honestly admit, \\"This is how I feel, this is what I'm doing, this is what I experience.\\" Karen is not interested in \\"fixing\\" problems: \\"Okay, I won't do, feel, experience that anymore.\\" He is interested in illustrating the achievement of being able to say, \\"Okay, I feel this envy or this malice. I don't like it. That's also part of me. I'm a whole person.\\"<br />Wholeness is the object of Karen's book: how to achieve personal wholeness through recognizing the potential wholeness in other people: \\"I can still love someone even though they are flawed.\\" In this, Karen accesses a deep truth, call it religious or ethical or whatever (and why should religion and ethics be removed from mental health?): to try to act towards others how we would like them to act towards us. <br />Karen uses a number of movies, books and current events as examples. Although some of these are applicable, and they are all very interesting, these object lessonsare less credible and less applicable than his therapy work and personal experiences.<BR> <BR>Recommendation: Buy it.	2002-09-10
US	40846637	R17QH2VFX3XKXX	0899667929	445843008	Maiden Voyage	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Excellent Overview	The sinking of the Titanic, like many traumatic events, can be and has been examined over and over again. The examinations cover the same ground. Sometimes they disagree. But each examination illuminates certain details over others, giving a new slant to the event. <br />Geoffrey Marcus' Maiden Voyage was an early addition to the Titanic examinations. It was written prior to Ballard's expedition and lacks knowledge of Ballard's discoveries. It also contains surprisingly little of the passengers' memories, relying mostly on the published accounts (Lightoller, Beesley, Gracie). It is possible that Marcus did not have the same kind of access to the passengers' reminiscences as later writers. <br />Despite these deficits, Maiden Voyage is a worthwhile read. Marcus' approach is fairly traditional. He is writing from within the context of maritime rules and customs. The ship was going too fast in a dangerous zone. The Captain should have known better. Marcus likewise severely castigates the California for ignoring distress flares, no matter who produced them. <br />Marcus makes a good defense of his approach but the real strength of Maiden Voyage is in the overall view it gives not of the personal experiences (as in Lord's book) or of the random incidences and accidents that resulted in the tragedy (as in Butler's book). Marcus concentrates on the social, political and maritime responses to Titanic's sinking. His chapters on the Senate hearing and the British inquiry are fascinating in this regard. Marcus considers the Senate hearing chaotic and bumptious, and the British inquiry a whitewash, but he points out that both elicited important information. <br />Recommendation: Don't spend too much unless you are an \\"I've read everything ever written about the Titanic\\" buff.	2002-09-10
US	40846637	RX4NFCRO68XMP	0060193166	466900475	In the Little World: A True Story of Dwarfs, Love, and Trouble	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Gets Under the Skin	At first glance, Mr. Richardson's book seems an interesting, if somewhat superficial tale of \\"A Reporter's Experience With . . . \\"--this time, with the world of dwarfs or Little People. He begins his book at a LPA convention in Atlanta, and the first chapters are flavored by his distance, his objectivity. <br />The book takes an abrupt turn as the relationships between Mr. Richardson and a number of dwarfs deepen. It is hard to say whether Mr. Richardson ever truly becomes friends with his new acquaintances, but he is afforded, as it were, a private tour of their personal lives. <br />The reader is introduced to surgical complications, family issues, ambition, feelings of inferiority, anger, love. This, the reader thinks, is real. This is comprehensible. This is what we all understand, and if Mr. Richardson were willing to leave the story there--a rehearsal of family and individual struggles--In the Little World would still be a good book but not as good as it is. <br />Mr. Richardson refuses to accept what he calls, negatively, the \\"big hearts in little bodies\\" concept, the idea that dwarfs are no different from anyone else, that an average-height person like myself (albeit at 5'2\\") should be on the same wavelength, should understand what a dwarf goes through, that everyone is alike under the skin.<br />This is not a false idea. In many ways, it is probably even truer than we imagine. I often saw myself in the events being described, the emotions being expressed, but however much I read or experience, I will never know what it is like to be a dwarf. This is something that I, for one, feel guilty about: I don't know and--if truth were told--I'm glad I don't know. I don't feel pity and unlike Mr. Richardson, I don't believe I've ever felt revulsion towards dwarfs, but I am glad that I have a reasonably healthy, reasonably average body that the world/community I live in reasonably accommodates. This thankfulness feels like betrayal: one shouldn't care about such things or think about such things. One should think that it doesn't matter: that height and weight and clear skin and disabilities are peripheral to the greater matters of personality and soul. And in many ways, this is true. Unfortunately--because of genetic hardwiring or because of environmental pressures or just because human beings are fearful and often not terribly good--it isn't always the way day-to-day life plays out. <br />These difficult issues are the ones Mr. Richardson deals with in In the Little World. He reaches no satisfactory conclusions, but he is unrelenting, sometimes harsh, both with his acquaintances and with himself. It is not always easy to approve of Mr. Richardson, but it is always easy to understand his struggle. <br />In many ways, the book is more about Mr. Richardson than about dwarfs. The tight focus does give a skewed vision of the LPA conference and consequently the Little People community. This is in no way a book about the diversity within that community. But it is an honest book about an outsider's experience. <br />Recommendation: Buy it.	2002-08-26
US	40846637	R3BGXXBEQN1KK4	0688130704	412245515	The Mennyms	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Imaginative, Perceptive	This is one of the most imaginative books I've ever read and also one of the most psychologically astute. On the surface it appears to be a highly original and well-planned fantasy--live dolls coping in a flesh and blood world--but the reader soon finds herself propelled beyond the fantasy into the day to day living of a complex and engaging family. All of the Mennyms, no matter how faintly drawn, have individual and sympathetic characters. Within the context of fantasy, the family deals with age old issues: autonomy versus connection, real versus pretend, mothers and daughters, self-protection versus risk and the need for, as well as the fear of, change. Sylvia Waugh illustrates the provocative theory that fantasy is often the true purveyor of difficult truths and hard realities.<br />Recommendation: Buy it.	2002-08-23
US	40846637	R1T1FK3724IP6N	0312966016	85971293	All Emergencies, Ring Super (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A High-Spirited Thriller	Ellen Emerson White's strength lies in her heroines, specifically in their \\"voice\\". They are smart, self-effacing, strong and incredibly sardonic. Witty may be the better word. This voice, which ensures the reader's investment in the heroine's future, is what makes All Emergencies Ring Super such an entertaining read. <br />Consequently, mystery buffs may not find All Emergencies Ring Super entirely to their liking. All Emergencies Ring Super is, in many ways, more a thriller than a mystery. The reader is gripped by the heroine's actions--in the face of quite plausible dangers--rather than by a string of clues and red herrings. The mystery is as basic and unpretentious as any Diagnosis Murder episode (Diagnosis Murder episodes may be standard fare, but they are well-written and well-directed). The villain--who is believably portrayed as both attractive and despicable (a difficult synthesis that White does very well)--is nevertheless a stock character. And there are various political cliches floating around. <br />All told, the reader hardly notices. The heroine, her friends, her more or less boyfriend, her dog even holds our interest and our sympathy with their quirks, vivacity and the kind of fast-paced repartee that supposedly died with Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert. <br />Recommendation: If you don't care for thrillers, get it for the dialog and the resident's view of NYC. It is a quick read and at paperback price, is definitely worth the expense.	2002-08-20
US	40846637	R3VGULKLJIKYVP	0394725808	145117921	Parallel Lives: Five Victorian Marriages	Books	4	47	52	N	N	A Relevant Exploration of Marriage	Phyllis Rose' Parellel Lives is an exploration of marriage: what makes a marriage, how marriages operate, the power struggles within marriage, the impact of patriarchy on marriage, sexuality within marriage and many, many other issues. <br />Ms Rose uses Victorian marriages to discuss these issues. This is a perceptive move. Our current culture, filled with self-help manuals and marriage classes, is in some ways less tolerate of eccentricity, more assured about how a successful marriage should operate. The tensions of sexuality, power and so on have been addressed, if not by individuals, within the culture and media at large. But Victorians did not have such an outlet. Dickens didn't know he was experiencing a well-documented male mid-life crisis when he engineered he and his wife's separation. This lack of self-knowledge makes the exploration of such marriages a fascinating study in human nature. <br />The book is split into the marriage biographies of five couples with two sections on Jane Welsh and Thomas Carlyle. A refreshing aspect of Ms Rose's Parallel Lives is that she is exploring these marriages from a feminist viewpoint that encompasses compassion for the man as well as for the woman. Her prose style is lively as she delves into the separate personal stories of her couples and how their personal stories influenced the marriage as a whole. <br />The book suffers a bit at the end. Ms Rose pulls back and attempts to apply general theory to her analysis. This is mostly unsuccessful. Ms Rose's gift lies in the personal--her ability to unravel this or that particular marriage and how this or that particular marriage was influenced by the problems of patricarchy--not in a general ideological stance that would supposedly solve those problems. <br />Recommendation: An intelligent and perceptive read. Buy it!	2002-08-16
US	40846637	R133SOTA56VLID	0300089503	401343282	Becoming Victoria	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fascinating Princess	Princesses have become an item of interest in the past few years. Possibly they always have been, but series such as The Royal Diaries--fictional diaries by true life princesses-- are filling library and bookstore shelves. <br />In this aristocratic climate, Becoming Victoria by Lynne Vallone stands out. Becoming Victoria examines the girlhood/teenagehood of the young woman who became Queen Victoria and consequently, the enduring symbol of an era. Ms Vallone has undertaken the remarkable task of examining how Victoria was reared, comparing her upbringing to the upbringing of contemporaries (not princesses), chronicling Victoria's relationship with her mother and illustrating the gap between the portrayal of Victoria's youth, both at the time and retrospectively, and how Victoria herself truly felt and acted. <br />The reader leaves this book convinced that truth is indeed stranger than fiction or at least as strange and as remarkable. Although Becoming Victoria is not necessarily geared towards teens (and is more expositive than books such as The Royal Diaries), the insight into a princess' curriculum, familial relationships, day-to-day activities should fascinate the readership that delves into Meg Cabot's The Princess Diaries and Gail Levine's The Princess Tales. <br />Becoming Victoria ends, rather disappointingly, at Victoria's ascension to the throne. This is, however, in accordance with the task set by the author. Victoria the child and teenager is Ms Vallone's focus, and she ends once her subject passes into a different stage. Consequently, the reader's appetite is whet to do further study on a most fascinating woman and queen.<br />Recommendation: The price is not too bad. It is a beautifully bound book and may be worth buying new. However, if your interest is in the content, not the appearance, try used.	2002-08-07
US	40846637	RV2MW9M8L0VAT	0380810565	119196861	National Velvet	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Better Than the Movie	The most remarkable aspect of National Velvet is that it was written in 1935. The story of a girl who pushes beyond her  culture, age and social position to achieve unprecedented glory is told without condescension or preachifying. In this, it outstretches books of its own time, many more modern books and even its own movie. Enid Bagnold isn't trying to make a point, she is telling a story with wit, vivacity and considerable insight.<br />This lack of moralizing is due mostly to Ms Bagnold's  characterizations. The most important of the characters--Mi, Velvet and Mrs. Brown--are portrayed as complete individuals with thoughts and flaws and attitudes that are a reflection not so much of their surroundings but of their innerselves. They are human, not representative.<br />The story moves quickly, apropos to a novel about a horse and a horse race. The dialog between the family members takes getting used to, being cryptic and more unsaid than said, as is typical with family communication. The average reader is confronted by unfamiliar vocabulary and references, which have to be accepted and then ignored. If this can be accomplished, the passion of  Velvet will carry the reader through to the end.<br />Recommedation: Buy it.	2002-08-07
US	40846637	R2UYGU9B2CXMXA	067086966X	979597965	American Heritage History of the United States	Books	5	14	17	N	N	More Than a Textbook	Douglas Brinkley's American Heritage History of the United States has all the marks of one of those terrible textbooks we were force fed in High School and college. Glossy pictures, special topic sections, maps, history capsulated into eras, the book has all the appearance of something written by a committee. When you were a teen, the best thing about it was that lots of photos meant less text.<br />Thankfully, American Heritage History of the United States was not written by a committee. Mr. Brinkley's text has personality, even humor, and intelligence. It flows smoothly and retains the reader's interest. I learned more than I had known and probably even remember some of it, which is more than I can say for my High School textbooks. <br />Concerning the subject itself, it is almost impossible to be entirely objective when it comes to history, any history. It is much to Mr. Brinkley's credit that I was unable to determine his political background, a question that is usually, unfortunately, answered far too soon far too often. (There appears to be a fine line with history between analysis and polemics.) Mr. Brinkley does have opinions and does voice them, but he is ultimately more concerned with portraying the facts of the matter at hand, whatever the matter at hand may be. He reminds the reader, on a fairly generous basis, that problems arising in one president's term of office may have begun in a prior president's term of office if not further back or may have nothing to do with the presidential office at all. <br />Recommendation: It's big and it's heavy. The price isn't bad for a big, heavy hardcover filled with photographs, just make sure you have somewhere to put it.	2002-08-07
US	40846637	R3K97WZW7GFUMV	0385498179	278220170	Me and Shakespeare: Life-Changing Adventures with the Bard	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Enthusiastic Read	Herman Gollob is, in his own words, &quot;an old man made mad by a love of Shakespeare.&quot; In other words, he is a dedicated amateur: enthusiastic, opinionated, curious, alternatively cocky and unsure, given to name-dropping. To read Me and Shakespeare is to read about Herman Gollob as much as it is to read about Shakespeare. <br />The memoir, however, does not slide off into the merely autobiographical. No matter how self-involved Mr. Gollob's tangents, he is tenacious in returning to the matter at hand. Throughout the course of the book, the reader investigates with Mr. Gollob, the plays, the sonnets, the new Globe, acting classes, the Folger, various scholary works, Oxford and pubs. The dedicated amateur is not limited by the pressures of thesis or reputation and Mr. Gollob transitions merrily and unrepentantly from topic to topic. <br />The book is not as disjointed as the style suggests. There is an overriding theme of rejuvenation as one grows older. Mr. Gollob uses his own personal thesis about Shakespeare and Judaism as a binding thread throughout the narrative. There is order and method to his superficially gregarious and haphazard appearance. <br />The thesis is intensely personal. Mr. Gollob is an amateur and has the amateur's enthusiastic desire to recreate Shakespeare in his own image. This is not a portrait of Shakespeare as an ordinary Elizabethean with a remarkable gift for writing. Yet even scholars have a difficult time accepting this version of Shakespeare (which I do believe to be the most accurate one). We want Shakespeare to be like us, to be as universal as his genius, to be as open to interpretation as his plays. We want his imagination to be based in something more concrete and accessible than the pure imagination of a hard-working writer. In this context, Mr. Gollob's thesis, no matter how far reaching, is perfectly appropriate, and his Judaism brings a thoughtful and religiously dynamic perception to the interpretation of Shakespeare'splays. <br />Recommendation: Read a chapter or two before you buy it. If you don't like the style, you won't get anything out of the book.	2002-08-02
US	40846637	R1FH5DP5BT0FVE	0802117058	41560393	Tobacco: A Cultural History of How an Exotic Plant Seduced Civilization	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Fun but Puzzling	About half-way through this book, I started saying, \\"Nah, that can't be true.\\" Maybe it was, maybe it wasn't, but I couldn't shake the feeling. <br />At first, Gately's Tobacco is simply a history, objectively told with an amusing tone. The prose is fast-paced, well-researched and, as far as it goes, honest. Despite Gately's well-reasoned and informative arguments, I have my doubts about the extent of tobacco's influence on historical/political situations, but then, it's difficult to know how seriously Gately takes such arguments himself.<br />But Gately's emphasis of tobacco's role in civilization (Western civilization particularly) gains a certain edginess the closer the book gets to the modern age. Gately is quite honest about the medical/addictive aspect of tobacco smoke. His defense of tobacco rests mostly on the intelligent and defendable grounds of libertarianism. But there is still something unsettling about such a defense in the face of Gately's honest description of the tobacco companies' approach to teen smokers. Although he isn't defending the tobacco companies, the reader almost begins to wish he would. Gately's c'est la vie shrug of the shoulders seems a tad Machiavellian, even by libertarian standards. <br />The trouble seems to be that Gately is too honest for his own good. A less honest man would defend tobacco without reference to the unsavory elements of its history and nature. Gately begins on an engagingly cavalier \\"Boy, isn't tobacco interesting\\" note but ends on a panegyric which comes off as a trifle naive in the face of what Gately himself has written. I don't question Gately's right to smoke or even the implication that anti-smoking has become something of an emotional crusade with science being used as a bludgeoning tool, but Gately's own Tobacco: A Cultural History simply doesn't lend itself to a rah, rah approach in favor of the weed. <br />Recommendation: Despite the three stars, give it try. The history is fascinating.	2002-07-29
US	40846637	R1T42SXOMSNS70	0881339210	342037738	The Splendid Century: Life in the France of Louis XIV	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Tour de Force	The wealth of detail in W.H. Lewis' book The Splendid Century is incredible, but even more incredible is Lewis' ability to see the forest and the trees, to intelligently distinguish between what is useful and what is irrelevant and to leave the reader with a definite impression of Louis XIV's France.<br />Like his brother, C.S., Warren Lewis has that stereotyped but still very real and precious commodity of English commonsense. His good-humored rationality flavors the book but not to the detriment of the subject. Lewis was, afterall, writing about Louis XIV's France, not 20th century England. As with all the best historians, Lewis has the ability to see the world from outside the ideologies and pressures of the present. More than once, he cautions the reader against applying current century thinking to a 17th century problem or event.<br />But tone is where Lewis excels. Personable without being chatty, humorous without being sarcastic, A Splendid Century is amazingly relaxing to read, especially allowing for the subject matter and Lewis' fact-filled prose.<br />Recommendation: Buy it.	2002-07-29
US	40846637	R21NSYBM8KX8CP	0743228928	266906749	Inventing Wonderland: The Lives and Fantasies of Lewis Carroll, Edward Lear, J.M. Barrie, Kenneth Grahame and A.A. Milne	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Those Strange Victorians	Victorians are experiencing something of a comeback after decades of censure as the strange, repressed, half-crazy relatives we don't want to tell anyone about. We are discovering that the Victorians were not so different from us. <br />The Victorians did, however, produce their own brand of eccentricity and none are as delightfully eccentric as the Victorian/Edwardian writers for children discussed in Inventing Wonderland. Jackie Wullschlager starts with that greatest of all Wonderland writers, the master himself Lewis Carroll and ends with Jazz Age Pooh creator A.A. Milne. <br />The eccentricity of these Victorian writers is their confident, and sometimes troubling, obsession with childhood itself. Wullschlager assures us, correctly, that these writers' obsessions did not cross the line into pedophilic behavior. To 21st century sensibilities this seems scarcely creditable, especially after reading letters by Lewis Carroll to various girl children. Carroll, Lear, Barrie and Grahame's effusions about childhood can only be understood within the context of the Victorian age, the age that produced and adored Wordsworth's overly quoted (then and now) \\"But trailing clouds of glory do we come/From God, who is our home\\" (Ode: Intimations of Immortality From Recollections of Early Childhood).<br />Wullschlager is, I think, a bit too dismissive of Milne, who is regarded in the text as a has-been, clinging to the last remnants of the Victorian celebration of childhood. Wullschlager's overall point in this regard, however, is well made. The Victorians invented and took seriously the concept of childhood as a wonderland. Consequently, they produced children's writers of a truly magnificent stature. When the concept of childhood=innocence & pleasure was abandoned, in the early 20th century (thank you, Freud!), the result was an almost tongue-in-cheek parody of the earlier writers. It just wasn't possible to take childhood that seriously anymore. <br />Writers for children have of course continued to produce  masterpieces, largely in the fantasy area, but that particular brand of unself-conscious Victorian nonsense and idyllicism may be lost forever. The Victorians are not as strange to us as we may like to believe, but they are certainly unreproducable.<br />Recommendation: Interesting, well-written, well-paced. Not the most complete biographical sketches but a complete analysis of biography and art. Give it a try.	2002-07-25
US	40846637	R3V596JDYXYX46	0312034083	993315789	Anatomy of Horror the Masters of Occult Fiction	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Why Written at All?	This is a well-written tome. The style is witty, filled with quips and non-vampire-like skewerings. It is a light, quick read covering Le Fanu to The Exorcist and a few oddballs in between.<br />Only problem is that the author has nothing to say. In fact, the reader is left wondering why on earth he wrote the book in the first place. He is almost completely negative in his assessment of the occult writers he has set himself to review (with the possible exception of Haggard). Bad writing, superficial plots, thin characterizations, silly philosophies, obscure metaphors, the list of criticisms goes on.<br />Other than Bram Stoker, I am not familiar with the writers that St John Barclay reviews. Nevertheless, it is passing strange that he would wish to write a book about a subject that he detests concerning writers that he loathes.<br />Recommendation: Don't bother.	2002-07-23
US	40846637	RVPPL97ZZ87RD	0691070571	37248030	The Art of the Pre-Raphaelites	Books	4	39	44	N	N	A Beautiful Book	The Pre-Raphaelites are one of the oddest and most English groups of artists from the Victorian/Impressionist age. The Art of the Pre-Raphaelites by Elizabeth Prettejohn helped me to understand the motives of the artists concerned (why pre-Raphael as opposed to pre-anyone else?) and their connection to the overall styles of art during the mid-1800s (both in England and abroad). The book is well-written and beautifully illustrated, containing one of the most complete sets of Pre-Raphaelite paintings I've seen in an art book. <br />Ms Prettejohn does a noble job of defending Pre-Raphaelite art and as a devotee I have no real argument with her position. Nevertheless, I'm not sure I believe that non-appreciation of Pre-Raphaelite art is due only to the heirarchy of Western Art (i.e. it is &quot;politically correct&quot; to prefer Monet to Hunt). It is possible that the Pre-Raphaelites were . . . well . . . just not as good as their Impressionist neighbors. I'm not an Impressionist fan myself. On the other hand, I LIKE Raphael. <br />Whether or not the Pre-Raphaelites are good or great or master painters, they deserve thorough study. This Ms Prettejohn has accomplished. <br />Recommendation: It's beautiful. Buy it, especially if you a Pre-Raphaelite devotee.	2002-07-22
US	40846637	R15X7TVAGPCGO	0807021032	632595377	Typhoid Mary: Captive to the Public's Health	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Worthwhile Read	Typhoid Mary: Captive to the Public's Health by Judith Walzer Leavitt could be shorter. Not much shorter, just a bit shorter. The beginning of the book is surprisingly dull and a great deal of information is repeated unnecessarily. <br />That said, Typhoid Mary is very well-written, even the dull bits. The research is well-documented and complete. And the subject matter is more than a little engrossing. Who was the woman behind the label &quot;Typhoid Mary&quot;? <br />Leavitt is making the link between typhoid and AIDS, in particular the problem of finding the balance between protecting individual rights and protecting the community. She spends time on this subject towards the end of the book and has some compassionate and reasonable things to say. The strongest part of the book, however, is in the history and in Leavitt's appreciation of Mary Mallon as an individual. The most interesting parts of the book (and where the writing picks up considerably) are the chapters on the public perception of Typhoid Mary throughout the 20th century. <br />Recommendation: Buy it if it's a subject that already interests you. Otherwise, check it out of the library.	2002-07-22
US	40846637	RH2MVB87ACSPD	0899664490	12718685	Pistols for Two	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Always Fun	Georgette Heyer is probably one of the most unappreciated humorous writers of romances. Georgette Heyer may not be as good as Jane Austen, but she has the same tongue-in-cheek wit and ironical gaze. <br />Pistols for Two, a collection of short stories, is not as funny as Heyer's novels. The stories are very short and lack the space necessary for the unraveling of Heyer's wit. They are, however, quinessential Heyer plots. (In fact, you can pretty much learn all of Heyer's romance plots from reading Pistols for Two.) Consequently, Pistols for Two is a fun, relaxing read. I regret that Heyer didn't (to my knowledge) write more short stories. <br />Recommendation: See if you can find it used in paperback before settling for the hardcover version. It's a thin book and shouldn't cost too much.	2002-07-15
US	40846637	R27BZAUHXUO5M3	0064403629	877691211	My Brother Louis Measures Worms and Other Louis Stories	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Enchanting	This is one of the funniest--and sweet-hearted-- books I have ever read. The Best Christmas Pageant Ever is a better book, but My Brother Louis Measures Worms is the book that I own and have read over and over and over again. It takes place in the kind of timeless neighborhood that I grew up in where kids spend all day outside, coming in only at dusk. I don't know if neighborhoods exist like this anymore (I'm only 31 but still . . . ) so reading My Brother Louis Measures Worms may be a stroll down nostalgia lane. In many ways, it reminds me of the movie The Sandlot which captures to perfection my childhood memories of playing baseball with my brother (Daniel, not Louis).<br />The book's family is eccentric but not unbelievable. Robinson has the ability to create likeable and realistic (and intact) nuclear families without crossing the line into syrupy cliches. The book is split into short stories (that follow a consecutive timeline) and every scenario conveys the positive--if sometimes bewildering--aura of a happy childhood. My favorite story is probably the mother getting lost by following the wrong cars to flower shows but the story about the dog who comes and stays forever reminds me of my dad (who has never cared for pets). <br />Recommendation: It's not as classic as The Best Christmas Pageant Ever but is better than The Best School Year Ever. Buy it!	2002-07-15
US	40846637	R3PPQZD6WOB27I	1572701447	71884098	Unnatural Death (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great to Listen To	Ian Carmichael is one of the best readers I've come across. If you've seen him as Lord Peter Wimsey on TV and been, shall we say, ambivalent about his portrayal, don't let that turn you away from the audiotapes. On tape, Mr. Carmichael catches the essence of Peter Wimsey: the quick, light speech; the self-aware mockery; sensitivity covered up by quotations and babbling. <br />Unnatural Death has always been one of my favorite Sayers (and also has one of the most fabulous last lines in popular fiction). In Unnatural Death, you get a hefty dose of Ms Climpson, a pro-active Parker and vignettes of village life (something that Sayers does very well). The plot is a tad convoluted (there are some points I still puzzle over), but psychologically, the murders all make sense. <br />One of her earlier novels, Unnatural Death does not delve as deeply into morality or characterization as some of Sayers' later works. But it is still a satisfying listen that is more than a mere puzzle.	2002-07-11
US	40846637	R1M53VD24ZH5G	0192829602	751760991	Pamela: Or Virtue Rewarded (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	35	41	N	N	Lots of Fun	This book is almost impossible to rate. It is didactic, tedious, chauvinistic, dogmatic and implausible. But boy, is it fun! I've read it twice and both times have been amazed at how quickly I was sucked into Richardson's world. And both times I came away thinking, Is this book really as psychologically complex as I think it is or am I reading too much into it? <br />In a way, the novel Pamela strikes me the same way as Shakespeare's play Taming of the Shrew. Yes, the sexism is irritating (not to say, frightening when looked at in historical context: Pamela really doesn't have a chance), yet the characters live in their own right. Mr. B is less clearly delineated than Pamela, and Pamela comes off as incredibly sanctimonious in parts, but the tension and drama between them and the other characters is real and vital.(For instance, Richardson explores the sibling rivalry between Mr. B and his sister in highly charged scenes that could take place in any modern novel.)<br />The book suffers towards the end. Pamela becomes even more sanctimonious (and less aggressive), and Mr. B becomes less witty. Mr. B is a villain you hate to love (or a hero you love to hate) until he turns \\"good\\" and then he just gets boring. Who was it said, \\"The snake has all the lines\\"? <br />If you find, as I do, that Clarissa (Richardson's better known novel about a womanly woman's virtue) is a tad daunting, give Pamela a try.	2002-07-11
US	40846637	R10VODSOGAZNQ3	1572701498	961103273	The Religious Body (C.D. Sloan Mysteries)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Relaxing but not Monotonous	Robin Bailey is laconic. I generally prefer quicker--or perhaps I should say, lighter--readers (Ian Carmichael, Rosemary Leach) but there is something hypnotically pleasant about listening to Robin Bailey's deep voice. You can picture him raising his eyebrows over some of Sloan's dialog. <br />In typical Aird fashion, the dialog is often quite cryptic and the mystery is somewhat thin. If you like mysteries for the clues, the red herrings, the complex puzzle building, Aird is not for you. If, however, you enjoy irony and the fine sketches of various personalities (in the context, of course, of a murder), Aird is a good choice. <br />Recommendation: I'm a firm believer that readers make all the difference in the enjoyment of an audiotape. If you've never heard Robin Bailey before, check one of his audios out of the library first.	2002-07-11
US	40846637	R2TPR17FMGQSK	1878877089	277952549	Literary Britain	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Wonderful Listen	This is the best audiotape--no holds barred--I've ever listened to. Ronald Hutton takes the listener on a tour of the homes and towns of some of Britain's greatest writers. <br />First of all, Ronald Hutton has a wonderful voice. It is the quinessential English voice. The voice all we Americans think IS England. It isn't. But it sounds wonderful anyway. Secondly, although Ronald Hutton doesn't have a great deal of time to spend on each writer and although what he is saying is not all that new, each minibiography is presented in a fresh and interesting way. The result, in my case at least, was to motivate me to find out more.<br />There is a simple theme driving the narration: writers write under pressure, to relieve it or in spite of it. Ronald Hutton makes a convincing argument, and the listener comes away appreciating the work and ambition (let alone talent) of writers like Hardy, Austen, Shakespeare, Thackery, Burns, Scott, Dickens, just to name a few. <br />Recommendation: Look in your library if you can't track down a copy to buy.	2002-07-11
US	40846637	R1N4IIKS2929CG	0375410910	350330565	Time to Be in Earnest: A Fragment of Autobiography - Signed Edition	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Don't Have to Be a P.D. James Fan	After an uneven beginning, Time to Be In Earnest, settles down to an earnest and enjoyable memoir (it is in diary form, covering a year: 1997-1998). <br />P.D. James has a distinct voice, comprised of dignity, reserve, confidence, practicality and intelligence. This voice or persona flows throughout the book. Not a reader of P.D. James' mystery novels, I have no way of knowing if this voice appears in her fiction. It is not a quiescent voice and therefore, not lightly ignored. It does give the reader an image of the author's personality, an image that may or may not be accurate. <br />P.D. James has an eye for detail, a quality that can bog down many a memoir and almost does in this case. However, there is something lesiurely, even unaggressive, about the wealth of detail, and it is intermingled with reflections on religion, nature, life, entertainment, writing and much more. And if you enjoy well-written pictures of nature, the prose of P.D. James will certainly delight and satisfy. <br />In fact, there's a bit of everything in this autobiography for everyone. I found the comments about writing and true life detective cases most interesting as well as P.D. James' experiences in WWII. There are references to Chatsworth, the House of Lords, the BBC and more prosaically, P.D. James' cat, the Civil Service and the work on her house. <br />There is always the suspicion in reading autobiography that it will be like watching other people's home movies: just a tad deary and confusing. This is not the case of Time to Be In Earnest. The smoothness of the writing carries the reader past all unknown faces (and it's fun to &quot;meet&quot; the few known ones). One gets the experience of the author's life as it happens. Many--if not most--memoirs/autobiographies are the analysis of events after they have been lived. This is true of sections of Time to Be In Earnest as well (and the analysis is always interesting) but the process of living alongside someone is what sets this bookapart. <br />It is not a book to rush through. Read it a bit at a time and catch the very English flavor of a very English lady.	2002-07-05
US	40846637	R4CMZ442PNBSC	0671578391	556353005	The Dracula Tape	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Funny	This is a very funny book. The &quot;true&quot; story of Dracula, told from Dracula's point of view (naturally), the book does not spoof so much as utilize the classic. It helps to have read at least part of the classic (in fact, after reading The Dracula Tape, it may be impossible to read Dracula by Stoker the same way again), but Saberhagen quotes all the relevant passages. I've always been fascinated by the idea of a story behind a story behind a story (What REALLY happened?) and The Dracula Tape is one of the best you-haven't-heard-the-WHOLE-story examples I've come across.<br />Where Saberhagen succeeds is that he does not simply flip-flop the original, turning Dracula into a beleagured victim, beset by villains. The reader may be on Dracula's side, but you don't exactly trust the guy. Dracula's &quot;voice&quot; is wry, self-deprecating, often annoyed, humorous and cunning. Fact is, Dracula isn't telling the WHOLE story either.	2002-07-03
US	40846637	R2D87R45EH2M6Y	0465021522	768348685	Lying About Hitler: History, Holocaust Holocaust And The David Irving Trial	Books	5	135	198	N	N	A Valuable and Necessary Book	This book is an outcome of the libel trial brought by David Irving against Penguin Books (in general) and Deborah Lipstadt (specifically). A historian and modern social commentator,  Deborah Lipstadt had referred to Irving as a Holocaust denier (and a poor historian) three or four times in a nearly 600-page book. Irving took exception and sued her for libel. He waited to sue her in England where the burden of proof is on the defendant, not the Plaintiff. Evans was one of the many historians asked, by the defense, to prove that Lipstadt was not committing libel when she called Irving a Holocaust denier. <BR> <BR>Evans has consequently built up a massive body of evidence to show that Irving continually, and with knowledge, suppressed historical facts and documents to support his position. Evans presents both the process of his investigation and the conclusions that he reached. Evans makes a formidable case. He points successfully to incident after incident where Irving knew that information was incorrect and still used it. Evans also points out that Irving's \\"mistakes\\" were all in one direction, not chaotic as one might expect from a researcher that didn't have enough time on his hands or was uncertain about his material. <BR> <BR>Lying About Hitler clarifies a number of issues, the first being that Irving was not the defendant (I thought so when I first heard about the case). Irving was suing Lipstadt, not the other way around. It was Lipstadt's freedom of speech (and Penguin Books') that was under attack. If Irving had won, he and others like him would have been able to stop (or attempt to stop) anyone who called them liars or disagreed with their position. <br />Another issue Evans deals with is the \\"but history is so hard to interpret\\" argument. Evans points out, again and again, that this trial was not about the interpretation of historical facts but the misuse of historical documentation (either invented or avoided). Evans' chapter on Irving's research of the bombing of Dresden is fascinating in this regard. <br />This kind of book confirms the importance of historical research for its own sake. History is so easily (and so often) manipulated for political purposes (on both sides of the fence). It is so much more important to figure out what happened and why as objectively as possible than to \\"prove\\" political agendas. <br />Recommendation: Buy it in paperback or hardcover. If you don't have the cash, take it out of the library. It is definitely worth a read.	2002-07-03
US	40846637	R2L6NTPRL1ZKUV	0060280662	875968884	10 Stupid Things Couples Do to Mess Up Their Relationships	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Needs Balance	Like Dr. Laura's show, Ten Stupid Things is at first refreshing and entertaining but grows somewhat depressing as it progresses. It is nice to have someone point out common sense realities (like it may not be entirely appropriate for a married spouse to spend time alone with a friend of the opposite sex). And it is refreshing to read a book about relationships which tackles the difficult problem of pride of both women and men. <br />Unfortunately--and this may be true of all self-help books--the ideology within the book becomes rather wearing. Dr. Laura doesn't seem to allow for the vagaries and individualism of human nature. By ideology I am not referring to Dr. Laura's religious convictions but rather to the belief that there is always an (x) resolution for (y) behavior. Solutions are posed in black and white scenarios. I contest that it is possible to believe in absolutes without adopting blanket assertions. <br />However, such blanket assertions may, as I've suggested, be due to the nature of self-help books themselves. I suppose if one didn't believe in a solution for every problem--if one believed that (y) behavior might result in (v), (w), or (x) resolution or in something completely different altogether--one would never write self-help books at all. I've had the same reaction to John Gray's Mars and Venus material. Nice idea but golly, surely there's another way of looking at the subject. <br />Recommendation: Read 10 Stupid Things in parts or buy other self-help books on the same subject to balance Dr. Laura.	2002-07-03
US	40846637	RATAFII70J84C	0698118790	782266475	The Ghost In Tokaido Inn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Exciting Read	I enjoyed Ghost in the Tokaido Inn as well as the sequel The Demon in the Teahouse. The two books make a great set for any mystery/Japanese history buff (regardless of age). I would rate Ghost in the Tokaido Inn as the better of the two since it is more cohesive, but they are both well-written and entertaining. <br />The Hobblers have managed to catch the flavor of their place and time period: 18th century Japan. The reader is not watching from the outside but experiencing an unique time and culture from the inside. The Hobblers have also managed to avoid \\"teaching\\" their knowledge. Their main character, Seikei, is learning about samurai culture at the same time as the reader. This is an excellent technique for imparting necessary information which could otherwise impede the story's movement.	2002-07-03
US	40846637	R1NBWIR4O14SCS	0060162163	632395497	Cleopatra: Histories, Dreams and Distortions	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Marvelous Read	I beg to differ with the previous reviewer. Hughes-Hallett's Cleopatra is a fascinating--and sociologically astute--work. Hughes-Hallett is looking at Cleopatra's image as it has been created and recreated through the ages. She begins with a review of Cleopatra's story through the eyes of her Roman enemies (specifically Octavius--later Caesar Augustus) and explains how Octavius' \\"propaganda machine\\" used certain images and concepts to discredit Cleopatra. Like all propaganda, the images tell us more about Octavius and the world he lived in than about Cleopatra. <br />Likewise, when, in the next chapter, Hughes-Hallett describes the images Cleopatra used to promote herself, we learn more about the religion and society surrounding Cleopatra than any specific biographical information. <br />The book moves on through history: Cleopatra in Shakespeare, for instance. It is not a biography, and Hughes-Hallett makes it quite clear that it is not meant to be a biography. What we know about Cleopatra is very little. Instead Hughes-Hallett's book explores what Cleopatra has meant to the different ages in which her myth and story have been told. Like many famous women throughout history, she has been both villified and romanticized. <br />I would rank Hughes-Hallett's book with Marina Warner's From the Beast to the Blond (although it is not as erudite) for its exploration of story and history and how the two mix together.	2002-07-03
US	40846637	R1NQ6GUGKKJOWJ	0553111132	574421178	Justice Hall	Books	3	22	23	N	N	A Good Mystery but Not a Holmes One	I enjoyed reading this latest installment of the Holmes-Russell saga. I was interested from beginning to end. And I found the WWI parts fascinating.<br />However . . . the book, for all its rather heavy exposition, felt rushed and not as thoughtful as the other Holmes-Russell books. It also felt, I hate to say this, a tad contrived, as if plots devices were being forced on each other rather than growing together naturally. Despite the charisma of Ali and Mahmoud (their relationship is the best part of the book), I felt I was skimming the surface of their motivations. Consequently, there were parts of the mystery that seemed too easily resolved. <br />And I missed Holmes. The book is not really about Holmes. Or even Mary. It is about Justice Hall and its occupants, and I will overstepped my bounds by suggesting that that is the story Laurie King wanted to write with Holmes-Russell added on as an afterthought. <br />My recommendation: Unless you are a fan/collector, wait for it in paperback.	2002-06-28
US	40846637	R2O8QRMWCURQKO	087004124X	862800771	Anthem	Books	1	27	52	N	N	An Unfair Review	This is a completely unfair review to make. I'm not a Ayn Rand fan, and I usually try to avoid reviewing books about whose authors I am more or less ignorant and uninterested. That said--and all readers having been warned--this is one of the few books I have ever read in my life that I completely and utterly and absolutely loathed. If I ever had the slightest inclination to read The Fountainhead, this book squashed that interest to ant-like proportions. I found it narcissistic, chauvinistic (even by my relaxed \\"Hey, patriarchy has some good points\\" standards) and bovinely incompetent in its logic. The hero's solution to his anti-individualist society by creating an \\"I'm the only individual that counts\\" society (in other words, ANOTHER anti-individualist society) plumbs the depths of idiocy. I've been told that Ayn Rand did better than this, but I can't bring myself to find out. <br />To play fair, other reviews are much more positive so keep reading if I've thoroughly annoyed you.	2002-06-26
US	40846637	R37W682Q882JV5	0395276284	143419015	The Inklings: A Group of Writers Whose Literary Fantasies Still Fire the Imagination of All Those Who Seek a Truth Beyond Reality	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellently Perceptive	This is one of the best biographical books I've ever read. Carpenter captures the character of some of the most interesting British writers of the WWII/post-WWII era: C.S. Lewis, Tolkien, Charles Williams. He manages to tread that careful balance between criticism and adoration. He accomplishes this, I think, out of true sympathy for each of the writers involved. He helped me understand the nature and complexity of the different relationships surrounding C.S. Lewis without resorting to vulgar fault-finding or &quot;taking sides&quot;. At one point, Mr. Carpenter recreates an Inkling meeting. The intellectual vigor and personalities of the participants rises off the page and helps to explain why the Inklings generated (and still generate) such interest.	2002-06-26
US	40846637	R2CCLG8M1N4KC0	1587889323	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa (Nova Audio Books)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not Up to Par	P.J. O'Rourke is a marvelous writer. He is intelligent, witty with the ability to capture nuances in conversations, places and events. Unfortunately, CEO on the Sofa is not some of his best work. The most redeeming thing about the book is the dialog between the essays which is jaunty and amusing. Mr. O'Rourke obviously had fun. But the dialog provides only the most tenuous of links for the essays, many of which are far below Mr. O'Rourke's best work. <br />My experience with Mr. O'Rourke is that his \\"planned\\" books are much better than his \\"unplanned\\" books. That is \\"Eat the Rich,\\" \\"All the Trouble in the World\\" and \\"Parliament of Whores\\" are far superior to \\"CEO on the Sofa\\" and \\"Give War a Chance\\" (although \\"Give War a Chance\\" IS replete with some very funny essays). <br />My recommendation: take the book out of the library but don't buy it unless it's a gift to a O'Rourke fan--it isn't a complete loss, and I'm all in favor of supporting good writers.	2002-06-26
US	40846637	R3B9QIV5W55JGN	0786705817	529195362	James Herriot: The Life of a Country Vet	Books	2	44	45	N	N	Appallingly bad writing	The most positive thing about this book is that it shows you what Jim Wight (James Herriot's son) was up against when he wrote his memoir. I highly recommend Jim Wight's memoir for anyone who is interested in learning about James Herriot (Alf Wight). <br />I think Mr. Lord may have been well-meaning when he wrote James Herriot: Life of a Country Vet but the book is really appallingly bad. Mr. Lord has no feel for the WWII period, has done no practical research, seems to have little to no perception of human character and relies almost exclusively on gossip and word-of-mouth. One gets the impression that Mr. Lord decided before writing his book what he was going to find and proceeded to twist or ignore any information to the contrary. He relies on those \\"witnesses\\" who will tell him what he wants to hear without taking into consideration the inherent complexity of human beings. Witnesses do not always tell the truth--it is a gross error in judgment to think that one person can fully, and accurately, explain another person. <br />The lack of reliable facts results in Mr. Lord relying almost exclusively on guesswork, and the assumptions inherent in Mr. Lord's guesswork are almost all negative. For instance, he assumes that because he, Mr. Lord couldn't find evidence that Alf Wight's parents were musicians, ergo, they weren't, therefore Alf Wight was lying when he referred to his parents as professional musicians. The point may be debatable but in the interests of good writing, the assumption is not enough. If Mr. Lord wasn't willing to do the required research to prove the point conclusively one way or the other, he should have left it out. <br />Mr. Lord strikes one as the kind of man who is continually surprised by the inconsistencies of human nature. He reports with something like glee that Alf once told someone that his father died in 1961, instead of 1960. This becomes evidence for . . . the mind boggles. I'm not sure Mr. Lord himself has a clue what he is tryingto accomplish in this book. Whatever it is, it suffers from an utter lack of scholarship and is therefore deeply insulting both to Alf Wight's memory and to the reader.	2002-06-26
US	40846637	R3BYZKNSQIEO9Y	047140053X	647800498	Money and Power: The History of Business	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thoroughly Enjoyable	I found this a thoroughly enjoyable book. It is an easy read without being superficial. The writers focus mostly on American business--Morgan, Rockefeller, Ford and Gates--with emphasis on their money-making schemes &amp; abilities. These are not &quot;tell-all&quot; biographical sketches. The writers never lose sight of their overall theme: money and power and how the two blend together. I would have liked more historical analysis (such is my bias). I found the chapter on Tulipmania fascinating (it is also the first time I have ever really understood Futures Trading). For anyone who finds economics and business an elusive mystery, this is an excellent starting point. (Also check out P.J. O'Rourke's Eat the Rich.)	2002-06-26
