US	40962234	R22Y9U8WFUI9DL	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Three and a half at the least.	In my original review of this I said, and I quote, \\"This was his best book since Red October/Without Remorse. Mr.Clancy's books usually have to be viewed from the stand point that it COULD happen. This one does not have that element in it; it has the element that this could REALLY happen; it would not be all that difficult for it to happen. Simply put, the chain of events that lead to the plot are much more likely than those that were the plot of Hunt for Red October. The reader does not have to suspend disbelief to the same degree as most of his other works. The hardest thing in this book to do in fact, is to distinguish actual history from Jack Ryan's history. Mr. Clancy blends them that well. The ending of it is climactic, the most climactic ending in his books since Sum of All Fears or Red Storm Rising. The final paragraph seemed a little trite, but the book had me hooked, pinned, rivetted, and welded to it. He will be hard-pressed to top or equal it.\\" <br />I was that impressed by the story, but after reading it and re-reading it over the last few years, I noticed a few quality errors and came to realize that this book was more manufactured than truly written. For example, whenever anyone refered to the one SDI expert they said he retired a \\"half colonel\\", including that character himself. Now, that phrase should be understandable to the reader, but, to my knowledge, Mr. Clancy invented the term as a slang term for a lieutenant-colonel. The terms I have heard for it are \\"light colonel\\" and \\"Louie Bird\\" or \\"light bird\\" (as opposed to \\"full bird\\"). Even if Mr. Clancy did not invent it, I doubt that every single person would have used \\"half colonel\\". Some would have used one of the others or even lieutenant colonel. Perhaps he invented the term so the reader would recognize the slang? Another example is the number and type of supposedly fairly diverse people who said \\"been there, done that\\". There were a few other examples that, upon reflection, seem to be stock phrases used by the author. This, also upon reflection, tends to make the protagonists all different versions of the same thing, to one degree or another. Basically, it helps make them flat, stock characters and not dynamic main ones. <br />The story was and is still enjoyable,(to me) and while the antagonists may be stereotyped, as other, more Asiatically versed reviewers have stated, the blinding ambition of one man, coupled with the desire of his fellows to maintain their primacy, completed by the cultural barriers of the opposing groups, and crowned by the moral issue the author used as a catalyst make this story a worthy novel. It may not be worthy of five stars, but it was still \\"rivetting,\\" if I may slightly misquote my original review. Worth reading, if not as well crafted as the story deserved. <br /> <br />	2005-01-20
US	40962234	R2HK533NKN6UHJ	0812550285	557548547	A Crown of Swords (The Wheel of Time, Book 7)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	This is where the decline began/it's part of the series	\\"This is the lowest rating I have given any of the books of the series. I liked the book, but I don't really think that anything happened in it. Rand fights one of the Forsaken, but we are not sure if that one is dead at the end of the fight.\\" That was what I said when I first reviewed this book three years ago. From further research, I have since discovered that this book was the first to not be fully edited after the author had written it. I think much of the angst and frustration that the author received over book ten he should have received over this one. It is the same old formula of a Forsaken dead every so many books, but now the formula was old and trite, and poorly edited by the author, as well as being the first of the Unedited Volumes by the publisher. Initially, I gave this a four star rating because of the introduction of Cadsuane, but after reviewing, rethinking and re-reading, I had to change mine opinion. Both as a stand alone, and as part of the series, book seven can only be considered a stop-gap, one that we had to wait for and after the first six volumes, one that was not very satisfying. COT is not the worst book of the series, COS is.	2004-11-10
US	40962234	R1BQJ8ODRNCIMO	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	4	6	19	N	N	A difficult book.....an easy choice	I liked it because it gave us something for which we've been crying for years: Put all the heroes in one book. Well, he delivered and more than delivered. The problem, however, is that when this is done, no one advances much and suddenly everyone (mostly) is complaining that the author has lost The Thread or, (and even worse in mine opinion because the next statements are so annoying) they accuse him of &quot;milking&quot; it, drawing out the series just to make money. Pah! He is prolific enough of an author not to be that desperate, and if he is the man his bio says he is, he has more pride than that.<BR>The people who critcize him have their points and some of those reviews are very well-thought out(Thank you,Oscar) but many of these people seem to be taking it personally, as if Robert Jordan were going out of his way to insult them. I have made that mistake myself with other authors. Hey, we wanted a book with everything in it, and we got it. Remember, it was the richness of detail that made us want more, and if now it has grown repetitve, well, someday the story will be finished, and it will be read by someone who will not know anything about how long it took Robert Jordan to write the series. I expect that that kind of reader will enjoy the series more than ANY of us who read it while it is being written.	2004-02-23
US	40962234	R2WH72E1WOZP5U	0345432347	810015467	Sword in the Storm (The Rigante Series, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	My first encountering of David Gemmell...	...It will not be my last. The story is fast-paced, and David Gemmell has a style that permits him to span years in paragraphs and not lose the reader. The story is also like a combination of the Gauls as they were being conquered by Julius Caesar, plus the Caledonians that caused Hadrian to build his wall, crossed with the Scots under Wallace and The Bruce, with Vikings added in for good measure. The characters are proud, particularly Connavar, and they seem realistically thought out. My favorite part was how Connavar became the pupil of Banouin (I probably mispelled that)and later Jasaray, using their tutelage to learn how to defeat the \\"Roman\\" legions of the story. I read this book in less than 24 reading hours, most of that in one sitting, and I have already read the sequel. They will definitely not be the last of his books that I read.	2004-02-14
US	40962234	R2P7TJBUH7FRT9	0618257608	9024120	The Road to Middle-Earth: How J.R.R. Tolkien Created a New Mythology	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A very informative Study	Tom Shippey has an intimate knowledge of the mind and creative processes of the late Professor J.R.R. Tolkien, perhaps nearly as intimate a knowledge as Christopher Tolkien himself. The degree of the schism between language and literature professors of his day was most startling, and how that affected the early critics' appraisals of his masterpiece was also not what I had expected. Tom Shippey's knowledge of JRR Tolkien's mind is most revealing and is encyclopedic, and his ability to explain how deeply the master philologist would see legends and myths in the most ordinary of names and words left me thunderstruck. I have read all five of the main Middle Earth volumes several times and have read some of the Lost Tales, but I had not gained any insight from previous volumes saying how Pr. Tolkien created his world. The authors of those books seemed to lack legitimacy. Tom Shippey does not have that problem, and his book demonstrates that he is Pr. Tolkien's bona fide pupil and linguistic heir. Fans of Middle Earth should be thankful for Tom Shippey's insight, an insight that could only be bettered by Christopher Tolkien, or Pr. Tolkien himself.	2004-01-20
US	40962234	R2VST9X8QS8DYM	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	This book is a stop-gap, though enjoyable	That does not make it bad. The main reason for my middle-of-the-road rating is that the book has a feeling of being ad hoc, a jury-rigged project, compared to the series itself. The books in the series flow with so much information, that it is easy to get lost in them. This book is much more straight-forward, much less loaded with detail. That is not a bad thing, but it is not what we have come to expect. Perhaps he has heard the cry of the masses and is trying to adjust to please his fan base.<br /> The book also reads somewhat like one of the later books of the Lord of the Rings, in that the first half of the book is about one group of characters and that the second is mostly about a different group. The only character common to both halves is Moiraine, with a smattering of Lan in the beginning being balanced by a slightly larger smattering of Suian in the end, both of these characters being very present during the other's virtual absence.<br /> This flip-flopping adds to the seemingly patched-togetherness of this book, but also the first section seems to make it seem that every or almost every Aes Sedai in the Wheel of Time is a contemporary of Moiraine, gaining the shawl at about the same time: Leane, Sheriam, Myrelle, a few others are included in this group. To me, that seems just a little too much like a graduating class from high-school, and seems to contradict the whole Aes-Sedai-are-dwindling concept that permeates the series. He does say that it was abnormal in the book, but I thought at least that Sheriam had been much older, perhaps a contemporary with Verin. <br /> The final factor is that this story builds off of New Spring the Short story in a very odd fashion: it uses that story as its conclusion. He builds on the beginning of it, not the end. He did add a few more details to the original short story, and made some alterations, but overall, they are virtually identical, the same thing only more-so in the new version. That was disappointing, to say the least, though intriguing that he tried it. This book seems designed to fulfill the role of being the WOT equivalent of the The Hobbit, a simple introduction to an extremely complex series. Someone who has not read the series might actually appreciate it more than I for that very reason. I recommend reading this book at least once.<BR>CSH	2004-01-14
US	40962234	R5ITV0RPNOX8B	1413705936	775808994	I Am Not Deep Throat: A Watergate Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A most excellent Spoof	This book is hilarious. The jokes and situations in it were absolutely ludicrous, and they were meant to be. I can see G. Gordon Liddy chasing John Dean through the White House with a pencil, I can see Richard Nixon giving that completely disjointed speech, and I can see (Deep Throat) walking into the Oval Office during a crucial meeting  as if it were his living room. It is  all outrageous in humorous preposterousness, most particularly so, the author's choice for Deep Throat, and that is why it is so funny. I saw this story being written, and though I knew all about its parts, I still loved it when I saw it as a whole. Enjoy and laugh while reading.<BR>CSH	2004-01-08
US	40962234	R1PIAYQ8JRTZW2	0399138250	685045441	Without Remorse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Most Unput-Downable Of All....	The Most Unput-Downable Of All of Tom Clancy's works. First of all, my apologies to Sir Winston and Daniel Webster for the title, but this was the effect of the book in question upon me. Second, I have just reviewed the one-star reviews of this book, and was amazed, though those people certainly have the right to their opinions. To me, this book is just something, once I have picked it up, that I am in deadly danger from, even if I have picked it up just to look at one section. I end up reading the whole thing. Again. There are sections that just demand that I read them, like where Nurse O'Toole alone sees John Kelly's face when he sees the last picture of Pam. The language is not perfect, but how that is described is very, very good. The scene with the pimp in New Orleans is interesting, particularly because Kelly decides to answer his question. The scene were Kelly reaches the Closest Point of Approach with the one drug dealer on the street is a personal favorite of mine.<BR>Tom Clancy wrote a realistic book about what a man would do if he had the training and the motivation and nothing to lose. The consequences Kelly inflicts upon those that hurt him are entirely realistic, and the fact that he considered himself better than his targets was also true to life. Soldiers of anykind who are that motivated would view the drug dealers as scum, and soldiers tend, no matter what a philosopher would tell you, to think in terms of good-guy/bad guy even when they are not so roused. Special Operations soldiers would be even more prone to this mentality, and the way Mr. Clancy has Kelly methodically roll them up is entirely chilling in its ruthlessness.<BR>At first, Kelly has no motivation but revenge. \\"Una salus victus nullam sperare salutem. The one hope of the damned is that they have no hope of salvation.\\" My apologies to linguists everywhere; I undoubtly butchered that translation, but that is Kelly's mentality after the beginning. However, he does evolve as he goes downthis path, he does question his conscience, and his motivation changes. The journey becomes less about revenge and more about defending those that can not defend themselves. I am not a violent person, nor do I condone vigilante mentality, but this book is a well thought out exercise in what a vigilante would do. Perhaps this could even be related to Marvel's Punisher, but Clancy's adaptation of this concept is masterfully done. I would dispute those who say it is not technical; it is the essence of the techniques of tactical stealth.<BR>This book is not for children, and it is not pretty. People who were adults at the time might find flaws in detail, but I personally could not. People who saw the Vietnam War on the nightly news might also not care for it, for the American Tragedies  and atrocites that covered much of the news at the time hardly have any mention. As this is solely the story of how John Clark came to be, leaving them little-mentioned was the correct choice. <BR>All in all, this is my favorite Clancy book for the story it told. The Hunt for Red October might be better, but only by a whisker.	2003-07-01
US	40962234	R3BBX4IKMIGZ7W	0671741926	818442828	The Mote in God's Eye	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Still a Standard and Now a Classic, with Old Friends	I read this book the first time over ten years ago. It was intriguing at the time, but also at the limit of my ability to enjoy.<BR>Now I read this book in the last week again and I could not put it down. The entire concept from the timeline at the beginning of the book to the last chapter where two of the characters are discussing what will keep Man from being forced to extinct the Moties...... It was wonderful to re-acquaint myself with Rod Blaine and the crew of the MacArthur as they conducted the first survey of a non-human solar system. Rod the Captain, Sally, Kevin the Sailing Master, Horace Bury the enigmatic Trader/Traitor....... all these characters were fun to meet again. <BR>The concept of this book that is fairly uncommon is that of first Contact between Man and Alien occurring after mankind has reached the stars and in fact has a thousand years of history in space before we meet the Motiess so named simply because of how their star looks from the planet of New Scotland, their star, another, larger star, and the nebula that makes the backdrop of how they look. The story hints at its own history, with just enough to make us want more of it. With a Biblical title, sections that have real and applicable quotes for each chapter, tributes to The Lord of the Rings, and the Shakespearean element of a list of characters as if the book were a play all add to the classic style that makes this a good book. But without a good story, these elements would be window dressing. The story is equal to the task. We meet the moties, finding a bipedal race that depends heavily upon theeir arms and in fact have shoulder muscles that grow up to the tops of their skulls...<BR>From this point, Mr. Niven and Mr. Pournelle tell a very interesting and compelling tale that is realistic in its characters and their reactions, and that is original in its concept. It also is the basis of whole novels of short stories about the Sauron supermen and its sequel, The Gripping Hand.<BR>This isdefinitely required reading for the for the fiction-science-fiction fanatic. It would be good for the fantasy-science-fiction fanatic as well.	2002-08-21
US	40962234	RSSELN5HQXLUX	081257558X	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Four and a Half Revisited/More R.Jordan Support	I have already stated why I liked this book in the other reviews I have written so I will not waste the time of my co-reveiwers on that. What I would like to point out is that while Mr. Jordan seems to be taking a very long time to finish the series, it has in fact been less time than it took Pr. Tolkien to write the Lord of the Rings. I think when all is said and done, many if not most of us, that have come to the opinion that the series is too long will be grateful for its length. After all, the only flaw that every one agreed upon in the Lord of the Rings was that it was too short. Mr. Jordan originally intended this to be a six book series. I would not be surprised if it reached twelve and I am expecting thirteen. After all, that number is signifigant through out the series. Does this mean that he is riding a cash cow? No. Mr. Martin had the same thing happen while he was writing A Song of Ice and Fire. Originally that was intended to be a trilogy, and now he is aiming for a six book series.<br />I understand everyones frustration. I am impatient for the next installments myself and even I have to admit that the Tanchio sequence grated on my nerves for a bit, and that some of the detail involving the heroines is long winded. Please remember, Mr.Jordan is as male as half the rest of humanity. I have often found that authors of one gender have difficulty portraying characters of the other, and in my attempts at writing I have trouble with it myself. Mr. Jordan's female characters are no where near as bad as others I have read (or attempted to write, I must admit).<br />The other complaint, that of the series length, comes from the fact that this is the first fantasy series I have ever heard of that has depth of this magnitude. Simply put, we as readers are impatient because we are used to less-in-depth and therefore almost always, less quality ficton. Nothing I have read before is of this quality and depth: not Misters Donaldson, Herbert, and Salvatore and certainly not Mr. Forstchen or Mr. Saberhagen's berserker or book of swords series. Only the Silmarillion was as complicated as the Wheel of Time and that book was a single volume simply because it was an overview and not, strictly speaking, telling a story. I still would recommend this series unto any reader, along with The Lord of the Rings and A Song of Ice and Fire. One thing all of us agree upon: at least Mr. Jordan kept this series from being too short.	2002-06-16
US	40962234	R63VOJG00EMEO	0061014591	57293859	The Terrible Hours	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Swede Momsen would have been pleased	Mr. Maas brings out quite a bit of detail to this history. I had heard that the submarine Squalus had sunk and that this was the first time submaritime rescue was practical, but until recently I had never even heard of Swede Momsen, and when I did hear of him, it was just a snippet of a history channel program, and I forgot most of it. I had never heard of the S-4, the S-51, or any of the other disasters mentioned, and I did not know that before this event and before this man, submaritime rescue did not exist, for all intents and purposes, and the only trapped submariners rescued were rescued by sheer dumb luck as much as any thing else. This history that Mr. Maas showed us was chilling, and I can see why Swede Momsen was so determined to change the system, or in this case the lack of it. His dedication is the admirable, remarkable, and selfless quality that makes him stand out. Mr. Maas portrayed and conveyed this very well.<BR>What also stands out is his attention to detail, which reveals an excellent researcher. How he detailed who went where, which one did what and so on was astounding. The number of people who looked at the signal board to make sure that the apertures were closed was particularly detailed and attention-catching, as<BR>well as the observation that the man who went into the after-battery closed that hatch. The rest of the book permeates with such examples, particularly the section about the raising of the Squalus. The number of dives necessary to achieve the submarine's salvage was astounishing.<BR>This was the first book of Mr. Maas' that I have read. I would recommend it to others, and I intend to find more to read.	2002-04-12
US	40962234	R7BP1TYKFWX2B	0345423496	284653366	3001: The Final Odyssey	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Orbits between four and five Stars(pardon the pun)	I was able to pick this book up for a song. Still I would have payed more for it. <BR>For those of you who remember the movie or the book, you will remember when the supercomputer Hal killed the astronaut that was the crewman with Dave Bowman. This book starts out with a comet mining vessel being called to investigate a mysterious radar contact. They grumble about it: they have work to do. But they go any way and find something that at first they think is space debris, about two meters(six feet, roughly) long until they see it. It is the frozen body of Frank Poole and they(the doctors at the time) are able to repair and resurrect him with medical science.....<BR>Mr. Clarke proceeds to tell a realistic tale of how a man who saw the beginning of the Third Millenium would react if he were suddenly transported to witness it's end. The story is mostly consistent with the rest of the storyline (I have not encountered 2061: Third Odyssey yet)and all the fiction he uses has some basis in fact(not surprising: We are talking about Mr. Arthur C. Clarke)and the story moves quickly. How he looked at religions in this book was somewhat harsh, but that was the storyline and it fit very consistently. There were only two minor points that seemed to not fit: he mentioned a date were Poole was born that seemed to be 1996, which was inconsistent if I read it correctly, and I do not think that an American Astronaut lost in the year 2001 would have such an easy time thinking in metrics, and not think in miles or inches at all. Given the time frame from the first authoring of this story to the authoring of this one, such small inconsistencies are readily forgiveable.	2002-04-09
US	40962234	R7DGNU5CDEKCG	0786918985	871727540	Sea of Swords (Forgotten Realms: Paths of Darkness)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	I must be a mutant......(Take Two)	I must be a mutant of a particularly virulent strain of fantasy readers. I have had an opportunity to re-evalute the reviews I have written of this book to see if I was a bit hasty earlier. I must, unfortunately, say I was dead on. I enjoyed this book not at all, and actually felt a little betrayed by how far this story has gone(to me) in the wrong direction. I have not felt that strongly and poorly about books since I forced myself to finish the Dune series. Wulfgar has always been my favorite character in this series, and it was the addition of Wulfgar to the group in the Crystal Shard where these books, and the Companions of the Hall began. I like Drizzt, and thought the Dark Elf Trilogy was excellent, but the last few books seem to have focussed entirely too much on Drizzt as if he were not a Dark Elf but a black hole from which the other characters can not escape. I must respectfully rebutt one of my co-reviewers comment that Mr. Salvatore is \\"developing Wulfgar into a powerful character\\" or words to that effect. I believe he was already a good character and that the recent developing has been counter productive. In fact, I see all the characters as becoming too much like Drizzt. I was pleased that the more recent reviews tend to justify my lack of enthusiasm for this installment.<BR>Now, I enjoy Mr. Salvatore's work, but I do agree with my co-reviewers who believe that this series is past its prime. I liked the idea that one of them proposed of having Drizzt start a new series from the perspective of two or three centuries further into his life. That would be interesting. The only other thing I could suggest is that which is unthinkable to most fans of this series: Drizzt Do'Urden should die. Nothing short of such a drastic change will suffice to rekindle the reader's interest. He could even bring him back after a certain period or goal had been completed. As things stand now, however, I am forced to conclude that I should put this series down. Let others enjoy it as much as I did enjoy twelve of these books.	2002-03-23
US	40962234	R2LI6JFI7F7LPX	0671775235	278628929	The Valiant (Star Trek The Next Generation)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Pleasant Surprise	Normally I try to avoid multi-authored series of Science Fiction. Having read dozens of cheap stories in the Star Trek universe growing up,I came to realize that they are more about quantity than quality, and I had become disenchanted with mass-produced fiction before I graduated high-school. My experiences with Star Wars mass fiction were not much better. However, I had the oppotunity to acquire the hardcover edition of this book for a pittance, so I relented of my disdain and bought this book.<BR>What I found was a very good piece. This book bridges the gap between the original StarTrek, and the second series. It is set early in the career of Picard, before he went bald, and is in fact before he was a Captain. (The cover shows him with a full head of hair; it makes Patrick Stewart look like Scott Bakula.)<BR>There are also flashbacks to the Valiant, a ship lost through the barrier at the edge of the galaxy before the original Starship(original FEDERATION starship) Enterprise series. That series in fact covered it in the early episodes,where the transition through the barrier caused one of Kirk's friends to become a sociopathic madman with mind powers. The episode refered to the Valiant, which had been destroyed about eighty years before or so due to a similar empowering/loss of sanity of one of its crew. They presumed the Valiant had been lost with all hands. This book is based on the idea that only a handful of the crew actually died, and that the rest managed to find an M-class planet, and that they had developed mental abilities similar to those who went mad, though not to the same degree and without the insanity that plagued Kirk's friend. These survivors had descendants, and now these descendants have come back, warning of a threat to the Federation. The Stargazer is sent to investigate and Picard has to take command.....<BR>The arrangement of the story, plus the reluctance of the crew to trust Picard all added to the stories merit, along with the accurate references to two episodes in the original series, both of which I have seen several times. A mutiny was mentioned, which I thought was a little over the top, but it was still well written. The only other inconsistency I found was that the Valiant was supposedly lost in the year 2069, which was the year after the setting of the movie First Contact. Given the sheer number of writers invited to fill out Gene Roddenberry's universe, such inconsistencies are inevitable. It is a good read.	2002-03-21
US	40962234	R3QJXBAUUUBTI9	0440406498	711445845	The Black Cauldron (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best adventures I have ever read	Reading this story again was like re-capturing my childhood. The books starts with Taran trying to bathe the oracular pig Hen Wen. While he is trying to do this, an arrogant young nobleman arrives at Caer Dallben and tries to get Taran to go announce him. Taran, wanting to focus on the chore he has been given, tells the nobleman to announce himself. Why not? Taran is not a slave, and is a minor hero in his own right. Without a word the nobleman who is ahorse drags Taran through the yard at Caer Dallben towards the house. The ruckus draws the attention of Dallben who mildly chastises the the prince. Their relationship goes downhill from there.<BR>In the council Gwydion Prince of Don, and Crown Prince of Prydain announces that the councils goal is to plan the theft of the Black Cauldron from underneath the very nose of Arawn Lord of Annuvin, so that he may no longer use it to add to the Cauldron Born, his undead legions.<BR>From this Mr. Alexander tells a simple, but compelling tale of heroics and coming of age as Taran starts to realize that manhood is not something consisting only of glory, but also of hard choices, sometimes where no choice is ideal. But the story also has hope, and it is not all doom-and-gloom. Best of all, it has a hero who is a hero due to his towering, flowering character, not a hero due to his towering power.<BR>It enterains and educates. Definitely a book to start the young reader upon. Good for adults as well.	2002-03-16
US	40962234	R1K8MT2NIFABYE	0553283375	338687294	DRAGONDOOM (Spectra Super Release)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Where he broke out of JRRTolkiens shadow	The first three books of Mithgar were based off of an out-line that was distilled from the Lord of the Rings. The next two, now published in one volume as the Silver Call, started away from that level of imitation, and dealt with a theme that Professor Tolkien never really touched upon: the liberation of Moria. Of course the races are different in description and name, and the characters (for the most part) have different names than in MiddleEarth, but that is what the Silver Call essentially is. While there was no real out-line for it, the Silver Call follows the same simple style of progression that the Iron Tower did originally.<BR>Then we come to Dragon's Doom. It is completely different in style, and Mr. McKiernan devotes actual time to develope the characters, to a degree that the first books did not touch. It is as if the idea that had been in the back of his mind finally burst forth at precisely the right time, and joined his ability to write exactly at lift-off. We are introduced to the Mithgar world before the Winter War at the earliest days of Elgo who would become the bane of the Cold Drake Sleeth. Each chapter is a flashback or a flash forward until the middle of the book where we meet with Elgo's sister meeting up, unintentionally, with a dwarf prince from the kingdom that is now at war with hers. During this chapter flashing, we see the entire history of the story laid out before us, from the coming of Sleeth to his death, and the consequences of the first time ever that a dragon was killed by a mere human, and laid out in a captivating style. In this work Mr. McKiernan expands the universe he has created from one or two points to a true timeline, and he does it seamlessly, despite the unchronological publishing order. And he continues that in his other books, becoming in my experience the best author for filling out a universe/timeline from beginning of it to the end, even more so than Professor Tolkien. This is where that began. Would-be authors should emulate this quality, if any of us can.	2002-03-16
US	40962234	R396K0PAOBRLY1	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Mr. Crichton is undefineable	This book describes a fictious encounter with microbes from beyond. The men sent to recover a sattelite from where it has landed in this small town wonder why there are no lights at all in a town at ten-oclock at night. They enter the town and within five minutes are dead.<BR>Next we encounter a number of scientists in different locations as they are alerted to the situation and sent to the government labratory that has been prepared for this situation, and the steps that they take to analyze and isolate the organism. The lab is the perfect place to study such an organism: it is even equipped with a nuclear self-destruct in case things go wrong.....<BR>Mr. Crichton tells a simple but logical tale in this volume and as he often does in his books, makes it hard to distinguish between the real elements of science that he uses for the basis of the premise, and the fictious facts he makes to take the premise to its conclusion. This is classic fiction, and the fact that it is over thirty years old takes nothing from it. Definitely worth the read.	2002-03-08
US	40962234	R2IWABLHA7MDW0	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I had forgotten how good these books were.	I had not read this series in close to fifteen years, and had forgotten many of the details of it. It was nice to be re-acquainted with Taran, and Hen Wen and Gurgi and Eilonwy and all the rest. But I had also forgotten how seamless the story was. It just flowed together with a smoothness that I nearly envy as an author a-borning and which any reader could appreciate. <BR>The story itself I enjoyed immensely, and found it a wonder that as many times as I read this as a child that I had forgotten so much of it. Most important of all, I found that I enjoyed it as much as an adult as I did when I was a child. This was especially enheartening, as much of the entertainments I had as a child I have outgrown. I have re-found a treasure.	2002-03-07
US	40962234	R3LL7IOD6L1DGF	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Beginning of the Test	Mr. Jordan has started a radical departure from all his Conan stories in this book. This series is extremely complicated, and it is not for the impatient reader( as I am writing this, he is nine volumes into the series and I expect at least four more before the series is done.)Also when he started releasing these books,they came out one per year. The last three volumes have taken two years apiece. Still this is a highly entertaining series, and this is where it starts.<BR>We start with a somewhat convoluted prologue, which is perfectly fitting because it takes place in the house of a madman. The madman is confronted by an enigmatic figure, who turns out to be the madman's nemesis. After a brief confrontation, the madman uses his power to transport himself to an empty plain, and then turns himself into atoms in an explosion so powerful that it creates a mountain on this plain and alters the course of the river next to the new mountain. The book starts with the people in a rural district preparing for a festival. Quickly the story centers around three teenage boys and one teenage girl. Because of the festival, the village has purchased fireworks, and has brought in a bard (called a gleeman) to make it a very memorable occasion( this is an extremely remote district, so remote they don't even know that they have a queen, who in turn has not been able to send troops to police this district for generations)Also, a strange nobleman and her retainer arrive. The celebration never takes place. The village is attacked by trollocs (goblins the size of trolls) who are led by a number of halfmen (similar to Professor Tolkiens RingWraiths: not quite as fierce or as difficult to destroy, but still deadly and hard to kill.) The noblewoman is shown to be an Aes Sedai and without her usage of the One Power the village might have been destroyed. She tells the three boys that they have to leave their village.....<BR>From this point Mr. Jordan has built an impressive, mammoth series which has elements from mid-eastern history, Japanese history, European history.... You will see similarities to Dune, to Professor Tolkien's Middle-Earth, to Star Wars.... It is the most complex story I have ever read, and it is for that that I am enthralled by it. Every element Mr. Jordan has used to influence this book he has made into an element of this story, and without looking you will not realise where the all come from. He developes dozens of characters of importance and scores of minor persons. Mr. Clancy is the only author who can dwarf Mr. Jordan's attention to detail, and only Mr. Tolkien's Silmarillion can best The Wheel of Time for complexity. And Above all, it is an EXPLETIVE DELETED fine series to read. Nine books into it, no one but the author has any idea on how it will end. That is good writing, I think. What is the Test? The test is whether or not you can be patient enough to for the author to complete his work.	2002-02-15
US	40962234	R1DTOU9LRKUOLI	081257558X	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Four and a half to five Stars	I can't believe the people who say that nothing happened in this book. After two very slow, uncentered-around-the-main-character installments,(which were also very necessary in mine opinion)Mr. Jordan starts off with a promise in the prologue: &quot;I am going to ....&quot; and Rand fulfills  that promise. Basically, he said this is my target, and I WILL take it down. And then he does take it down. The time in between the prologue and the last chapter is generally well-spent, particularly the chapters involving Mat. The couple chapters about Perrin weren't bad either, and this is the first book since The Shadow Rising where all three of the main characters are advanced in one volume. Yes, Perrin is not taking as many or as big of steps as Rand or Mat, but he is still advancing. Plus Rand and Lan work together again toward the end of this book. Plus there is the last chapter With The Choedan Kal where Rand services the target selected in the prologue......<BR>No, Robert Jordan is not writing a soap opera, and no he is not writing/riding a cash cow. He is creating a universe so that he may tell a story and somehow I doubt that those who give these books bad ratings have done much writing. As a would be author I have tried to write a universe to tell my story, and it is not an easy feat. If I wrote a story half as complicated as Mr.Jordan's and wrote it half as well I would not be ashamed. Two-thirds as well and I would be pleased. To those who give this series less than three stars, please, be patient. This is not a martial arts movie or an action film. He is trying to tell a story and that is not very easy to do. If he does not put enough detail in it, he may as well have left it at the good-guys win/the bad guys lose.	2002-02-08
US	40962234	RJIVZTDZN75BU	0312854285	861837137	Lord of Chaos	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Peak before a Slight Drop	This book is the standard of the series. (So far.)In the first book we are given a slow-paced introduction to a very complex and  interesting story, but it's about at the half-way point that the book becomes truly captivating. The second book was better still,  and we don't have to deal with as many initial concepts as in the   first book(an inevitable advantage for any second book in any series)and the events start to focus on the chief-hero, who just barely rose above the rest of the heroes at the end of the first book. The third book was even better, and the fourth and fifth were in another league or order of magnitude. Then in Lord of Chaos, we have the action-packed pinnacle. Aes Sedai on the one side, Aes Sedai on the other, renegade Aiel, and the Ashaman have become a reality. The Forsaken are given an enigmatic command about the Lord of Chaos (thus the title, obviously) and a very intriguing interplay commences. And we are introduced to the character of Shadar Haran, a most unMyrrdrahl like Myrrdrahl. But the best of this book was the progression of the last chapters to the Conclusion in Dumai's Wells. Books seven and eight were of a lesser quality, though not bad by any means, and in them the sub-plots begin to tie up. Book Nine was better than Seven And Eight, but not quite at the same level as Number Six.	2002-01-05
US	40962234	R1PE0TLCRYEGL4	0451450078	856122782	Rally Cry (Lost Regiment, Book 1)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A Story that is Original	When I first read this series, I was enthralled. The idea of a civil war regiment being lost in the Bermuda Triangle and then coming up on a different world where men are literally cattle for this race of superhuman barbarians and leading the men of that world to achieve freedom was definitely a first, in mine experience. After that, the story has a logical, predictable progression, and the characters are fairly basic, almost too basic, and this story does not have the wide-reaching appeal of other stories in the Science Fiction/Fantasy canons. There are character and place name inconsistencies between the first and second books: a character named Hank who is later named Jack, a place called Orki that is later called Onci, and perhaps a few other examples. These are minor changes, but they nag at the subconcious of the reader leaving an impression that it is not quite right. Still, the story is original, and the historical references are impressive, particularly how Mr. Forstchen includes all the basic details of mid-Nineteenth Century industrialization. I originally would have given this five stars, but after reading Mr. Jordan and Mr. Martin, and after seeing how Mr. McKiernan improved the quality of his writing in the Mithgar novels, I could not give this book that rating. It is basic and overly predictable, and the largest portion of the characters are extremely simple, almost type-cast, and actually could use more character developement. <BR>Overall, it is an enjoyable read, and Mr. Forstchen does have a story to tell.	2002-01-01
US	40962234	RWR0UL804K0LV	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Series	This is one of the books that I read over and over as a child. In this book we are introduced to Taran, the Assistant Pig-Keeper of Caer Dalben. Little does Taran know, as he is growing up on this quite little farm what his employer is, and the powerful company that he keeps, and how being an orphan who dreams of heroics is going to impact his life. Parents need not worry about this series: there is no sexual innuendo, there are no demonic rituals, and there is no pantheon of deities that are worshipped. There is minimal violence, and Mr. Alexander does not glorify conflict. When heroes die in this series, they are not put on a pedestal and then glossed over; they are mourned. Death is not emphasised much in this series, but he does treat it in a realistic fashion. Most of all, Mr. Alexander does not pack this series with action, but tells a story almost custom made to develope the literary qualities of the mind. This series is good for young and old alike.	2002-01-01
US	40962234	R30FWRF4UB9OI8	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Different Kind of Fantasy #3	Mr. Martin's epic continues. In A Clash of Kings, we had five kings contending for the throne. In A Storm of Swords, that number drops, but with the promise of more kings to come. And the terrors beyond the Wall reveal themselves, and we start to find just how deadly they are, and we start to think, like the Night's Watch, just how ridiculous it is for the nobility to be squabbling over the throne when the true threat is beyond the Wall. Not that Mr. Martin's work is ridiculous. The character perspectives are realistic, and we see how it is easy for the contenders to forget the Wall: it has been forgotten for generations, and other than a few people who actually chose to become part of the Night's Watch, the ranks of these men who guard the Seven Kingdoms from the Others and their wights are men convicted of some crime or who fell a-foul of their local lord, or in the case of some, who had joined the losing side in this or that struggle. Also, other than the barbarians and their occasional raids south of the Wall, there has been no signifigant threat, and the Others are but tales told to scare children. The Seven Kingdoms will learn that they are a fact, and this book starts that.<BR>Betrayal, alliances, ambition, honor, necessity, these are all part of the story, and Mr. Martin does not keep the action out of the story, and new character add their perspectives. That does not mean that they are safe, for at least two of the characters whose perspectives we saw in the earlier books are dead by the beginning of this book, and probably more will die in the series.<BR>He continues to write in the character-per-chapter style that makes this series so different. The only complaint I have is that that style makes it easy for a person to become impatient, and skip to another chapter, or to pick it up at the wrong chapter. That does not impact the quality of the books, however, and the reader need not lose heart: the character developement in this story is tied up in the action in perhaps the best blend I have ever read, and it is a fast-paced series. The quest element I saw in the second book is still there in this one, and we are introduced to the enigmatic character known only as Coldhands. I believe him to be signifigant, though not the hero by any means.<BR>Those who like involved stories will like this book, as well as those who like action. Those who like flesh and bone characters will like this series as well. I like this series for its original approach and the fact that the quest element is not so obvious and immediate in the story, and I like this series for the realistic characters, the most realistic that I have probably ever read.<BR>The Song of Ice and Fire has rapidly joined The Wheel of Time and The Lord of the Rings in my personal canon of original, high quality fiction.	2001-12-22
US	40962234	R18MZ1U610QYBE	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Different Kind of Fantasy #2	Mr. Martin continues his Epic in this book. The world he introduced to us in A Game of Thrones starts to flesh out. The old king is dead and there is a question about the legitimacy of his heirs. Thus a peaceful succession is prevented and three claims to the throne of the Seven Kingdoms are made, as well as two claims to the thrones of kingdoms that were independent before the Taragaryen Kings came to the Seven Kingdoms three hundred years before. And let us not the forget that the last of the Taragaryen House is making a claim to the throne from exile in the islands and lands of the east. <BR>This book has more of the magical element in it than the first of this series, as the Night's Watch at the north border of the seven kingdoms comes to realise that there is a great deal of truth to the old legends, and that they have more to worry about beyond their Wall than just the barbarians. Also, one of the kings, whose claim is the strongest, but whose support is the weakest, has converted to a different god, and the priestess who converted him is a sorceress to boot. This will have an effect on the story.<BR>Mr. Martin continues using the almost agonizing tactic of telling each chapter from the viewpoint of individual characters. This makes it more realistic, I believe, as we then come to know more characters, and Mr. Martin does not make them unrealistic, as they are all prone to misperceptions, and very human tendencies.<BR>Also, I believe that he very realistically portrays the class differences from kings to lords, from powerful lords to weak and minor ones, and from the minor nobility to the serfs and peasants. Also in this struggle are those who see and are willing to risk themselves to rise to higher station, whether a serf who would become a knight, or lords who would become kings. It is a very harsh world, and those who rise can also fall. We see this more in this book than in the first, and I suspect that we will see it through-out the series. The most realistic element that I see is that first of all, very few people in this are cut-and-dried, out-and-out villains or heroes, and characters that we like do not always survive, let alone prevail. I have mine opinions about where this story will go, and who will be most important, but it is too early to tell. I do think that I can see the beginning of a quest element in this story.<BR>I definitely recommend this series to other readers.	2001-12-22
US	40962234	RRTECJZSNRSYW	0451458613	765675585	The Silver Call (Mithgar)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What Prof.Tolkien never wrote about	I initially read this story when it was two volumes. I had always wanted to read about the Dwarves of MiddleEarth re-taking the Mines of Moria. Since The Professor never wrote about that,I was glad to read about the Re-taking of Kraggen-cor by the dwarves of Mithgar. Still, while this story has no out-line from Middle Earth as its basis, the reader can still see the lack of originality in many areas. The example that comes to mind is the names of the two trolls in the battle scene: \\"Goth!Mog!\\" These names are taken directly from the name of one of Professor Tolkien's characters in the Silmarillion: Gothmog, Lord of the Balrogs. Not that I fault Mr. McKiernan for the imitations, and it is obvious that he regarded The Professor's works highly, and I have seen other authors be even more blatant in their references to Middle Earth Lore (one of the Sauron supermen of Larry Niven & Jerry Pournelle's universe wondering if the history of his planet would have been different if the surveyors who had discovered it had not named it after the DarkLord.)This is, to my mind, a tribute to Professor Tolkien, and I might have done the same to get myself published. The Pyrrhic victory at the end of this story is where it starts going away from the Middle Earth aspect and where it starts to become its own story. Mr. McKiernan's stories that were published over two or three volumes tend to be simpler than the ones he wrote as a single volume. Still, they are adequate stories. Read it.	2001-12-08
US	40962234	R1KQPSKKEKQGZR	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A different kind of Fantasy	Having brushed into this universe with the the prologal story<br />&quot;The Hedge Knight&quot; from the Legends compilation volume, I had different expectations about this book than what I actually encountered. This does not mean I was disappointed. The ruling house that we encountered in &quot;The Hedge Knight&quot; has been deposed with extreme predjudice, and is now all but extinct, fifteen years after the overthrow. The steward of the new king has died, and he comes north to ask his best friend to become the new steward. After an intense prologue where we are introduced to the NightWatch (and some of the reasons why they have to watch) we are then lead into the main body of the story, which starts off with a nightwatch Deserter being beheaded.<br />What is interesting about this book and hopefully its successors, is that there is no quest. The author is merely telling a story. There is no predictable goal that will lead us to the &quot;good-guys win/bad-guys lose&quot; conclusion. The story is made of more mundane challenges and intrigues. This gives it an element of realism that makes it almost drama instead of fantasy. I do not think that the author could have pulled it off, if he had not written each chapter as the point of view of an individual character, each chapter having the view-point of a different character. The only thing  that I did not care for was the emphasis that he placed on sex. The story has that through out. Most of the fantasy that I like places little emphasis upon that aspect of human life. However, Mr. Martin does this in a realistic fashion, and the manner in which he describes sex fits the story and makes the characters more realistic. They way he brings mating into the story adds an Arthurian element to the tale. The only complaint left to me then is the number of characters from whose point of view he tells the story. Given that this shift is essential to the way the story is written, that is a small complaint. This story is overall an excellent departure from the quest based fantasy with which I am more familiar. Mr. Martin said that he wanted to write this as historical fiction of a fictious fantasy world. He has done that in this book.This story is overall an excellent departure from the quest based fantasy with which I am more familiar. Mr. Martin said that he wanted to write this as historical fiction of a fictious fantasy world. He has done that in this book.	2001-12-07
US	40962234	R128IPG2R7HJIA	0451458109	857184251	The Iron Tower Omnibus (Mithgar)	Books	2	5	9	N	N	A Humble Beginning	This series, whether in the original three volume set or in one volume, is a very close copy of the Lord of the Rings. If you took all the main points of the Lord of the Rings, stripped from them Professor Tolkien's writing style and the names he gave the characters and the races and distilled it to a basic outline, you<BR>would have the outline of the Iron Tower Trilogy. It starts of in the land of the small, quiet people and the quest is for the bad sorcerer/overlord to be overthrown forever. The hero from the small, quiet people will have as his companions an uncrowned king of men, a warrior-elf, and a mighty dwarf. They will be forced to travel through an ancient dwarven kingdom under a mountain range that has become the haunt of the demonic creature....the final battle is not so much a forlorn hope as it is a diversion.... I could go on. Mr. McKiernan adds other elements to it, and has taken some out(most notably the lack of<BR>wizards) but they really do not effect this story immediately, with the sole exception of allowing Mr. McKiernan to write more books in this universe, and thus make it his own universe, and not a perpetual copy of MiddleEarth. It is worth reading, but read of this universe in this order: Iron Tower, Silver Call, Dragonsdoom... read them in the order that they were originally published. You will note the quality of his writing drastically improves. It is a humble begining to a good universe.	2001-12-07
US	40962234	R3LGX6NRIMMMOV	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How versatile can a man be?	Mr. Crichton has in this book shown how adaptive he can be. He deliberately adopts a different style in this book than in the others that I have read and he pulls it off excellently. The idea of writing a story that is originally an actual historical document is impressive in it's originality. The idea of using that psuedo-document as a link to a mythological legend is also impressive. The style was somewhat dry to read, and the fight with the dragon was perhaps the most mundane I have ever encountered, but overall the book was very well done. My chief complaint is that he did not spend enough time developing the Eaters into more than a caricature of Neanderthals, but he did write this book over two decades ago. The battle scenes were not very exciting in the modern sense of the reader/viewer, but were exciting that he had kept to the writing style to which he had committed when writing this story. Over all, read it. And if you can read it before you see it.	2001-11-23
US	40962234	R29YUBAXRO5NTA	0786914041	333113678	The Spine of the World (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 2)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	The old gray Wulfgar ain't what he used to be, ain't what...	This story has little to do with Drizzt and the rest of the companions, but instead focusses on Wulfgar after his restoration to the mortal plane(which is fine). He teams up with a minor character named Morik, (which is fine) and he deals with the mental/psychological stress of having been the prisoner of a demon for half a decade which is realistic, no doubt, should such a thing be able to happen, but I believe it is overplayed. The story then keeps flashing to this minor independent earldom, and that really has no point until the end of the story when Wulfgar finds a way to be a hero again. Mr.Salvatore was losing the Thread in this book and had to find something to fill the rest of the story out. All this book has for it is Wulfgar trying to overcome his mental demons, and then a bit of heroics at the end. <BR>The direction Mr. Salvatore is going in this book is unexpected to the point of being a ricochet: it could go anywhere and be dangerous besides. This was the first R.A.Salvatore book where I found that I could skip chapters and not really miss anything. And despite his singular abscence in the this book Drizzt is STILL giving his moralistic monolgues at the beginning of each chapter/section. As the cartoon owl said, Enough is too much. He really should have had one of the other characters do the section introductions like Catti-brie, Regis(who would have been ideal) or Wulfgar himself. Or he should have discontinued the introductions. His best works were the Icewind Dale Trilogy and they did not have the introductions in them. If he continues in this fashion, it will all center around Drizzt and THAT would be a tragedy: Drizzt was in the beginning, only the most enigmatic among equals, and his best stories were when the other characters were not simply satellite's and appendages of our favorite Dark Elf but co-equals in a team. I did like Wulfgar's heroics at the end and that was why I gave this book two stars.	2001-11-23
US	40962234	R3IKRMHLB0UP14	0312862199	534145800	The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Excellent as a cross Reference	If you are like I am and want to devour all the little hints we are given in this story, this is an excellent cross reference, easier to use than a couple volumes of the series. The art work, however, is of poor quality, and does not come anywhere near the standards of the covers of the books. It does have the first few covers represented in the center of the book and they are the same covers and the quality of them is the same, but the rest of the art work is, in mine opinion, horrid and entirely too pastel in how it looks. The maps are excellent, but there are not enough of them. This book does allow for more information to be given to the readership without having to tie up Mr. Jordan by making him write an extra novel, but so far that information has not had any effect in the series.	2001-11-21
US	40962234	RBZZYF3A8MP60	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	First Test of Heroes	This is the first book were Mat, Perrin, and Rand are faced with the fact that they must be who they are, and that there is not much point in trying to run from it. Mat ran the longest from it, and both Perrin and Rand were running from it for at least one more book, but it they did face it in this one. And they worked together to a degree that they have not since, as in the next book Rand is by himself for most of it, and in the fourth Perrin goes off on a mission of importance, and the three heroes have not been united since. But also we find more about the origins of Rand and how he came to be. Plus, and to my mind most interesting, we find out how Moiraine and the Amyrlin Seat tie into the story and when they tied in to it. The way Mr. Jordan did that was just captivating to my mind.	2001-11-21
US	40962234	R2GS56AUKA16ZF	0786918985	871727540	Sea of Swords (Forgotten Realms: Paths of Darkness)	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Good-bye,  This Universe	The plot/goal was not enough, Drizzt's intro's to every section<BR>are dull any more, I did not like the elf he introduced in this story, he should not have returned Wulfgar as the story is going,<BR>there is too much sexual innuendo( the first books hardly had any), I don't like the direction or lack of it in which the story is going, the heroes have done everything, and the character developement seems to be making them all the same character. These books aren't any fun any more.	2001-11-17
US	40962234	R17UUAGC89D6HK	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Battles were Excellent	Some of the chapters between the beginning and the battles and between battles are a little slow,perhaps, but I DID read the next four books before I wrote this review, so perhaps mine opinion is being influenced by the standard of book six, and the recentness(for this series) of book nine. It had many memorable chapters: The Craft of Kin Tovere; This Place, This Day; News comes to Cairhein, and others. Also Mat comes to terms that he is not immune to the Forsakens' attention. I think this is the first book where one of our three boys is not in the volume. That was a slight disappointment.	2001-11-17
US	40962234	R3BUS0FIP5NHYV	0451458036	611496509	Silver Wolf, Black Falcon (Mithgar)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If only every author would end it so well	For a while Mr. Mckiernan's characters discussing right and wrong, and the philosophizing behind it grated on my nerves. But his characters remained consistent throughout the series, from the humble and virtually carbon-copied-from-Tolkien origins in the Iron Tower Trilogy, to complex and reader-testing writing style that Mr. Mckiernan first introduced in full with Dragonsdoom, and carried on through the rest of the novels of Mithgar. His stories were consistent, and they were not overly predictable, and he always had a story to tell. Silver Wolf, Black Falcon continued that tradition, and did it triumphantly. I was impressed by how consistently Mr. Mckiernan kept to form, and with how consistently he kept to details to which he kept refering. The only real weakness is that I had to refer to the map more often than I would like, but I have that problem with many authors, and this is a small point. Also, his maps, while never quite complete to my satisfaction, are consistent with each other. I have found many inconsistencies in the works of other authors, and I believe that they detract from the story;there's always that slight voice in the back of the mind saying &quot;that's not right.&quot; The only real problem I have with this storyline is that there is an author-generated element that this is a proto-history of our world. That is Conanesque, and usually cheapens the quality of the fiction. It does not in this case. I will miss this universe, but if Mr. Mckiernan decides not to write any more Mithgar novels, he certainly is ending on a high note. The progression of the writing from first story to last(in order of publication)is a model for all authors-to-be.	2001-11-15
US	40962234	R2KAFVCOG1Z2L7	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Rand comes around.	I liked this book for how it did not focus so much on the main character, but how it kept highlighting him. Also, I loved how Matt found out that the girls were in trouble, and how he went about trying to keep them from losing their skins. Overall, this book was action packed. The main point of it is how Rand says(in actions, if not in specific words)Let's see if I really am the Dragon Reborn.The ending of it was also classic, and helps develope Rand, Perrin, Loial, Lan and Moirane. And Mat. It has been several months since I read it, but I have read it at least three times. I never expected to be able to read these stories more than once.<BR>Mr. Jordan does not disappoint.	2001-11-15
US	40962234	R1L7QGTJ7FM1SB	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Rand is sitting Pretty	This is the first book where one of the Forsaken does not die at the end of it, or is at least wounded. But Rand achieves a status<BR>quo in this book where he is finally starting to exercise some<BR>control over events, in stead of running around re-acting to them<BR>He starts to plan how and what he is going to do, and he starts<BR>becoming independent of Moiraine. Also, this is the last book that is able to deal extensively with all of our three heroes. I found book six to be slightly more exciting, but only just. Book five was slightly less exciting, but it also accomplished quite a bit. It was during books seven and eight that the series started to drag. The fact that none of the Forsaken die in this book does not take anything from it, but in fact keeps the ending from being &quot;same old, same old&quot;.	2001-11-14
US	40962234	R3K44I9GC6ZRG4	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Better than Book Seven	Many readers by this book are chomping at the bit, either for Mr.<BR>Jordan to finish the series, or to get back to Rand. In book seven, Rand gets Illian, but we are uncertain whether or not he <BR>has actually killed Sammael. While Rand does little in this book,<BR>everyone else seems to be tying things up. Logain has joined the Ashaman. Moghedien has reported to Shayol Ghul. The Rebel Tower<BR>Reaches the district of Tar Valon. The members of the Ashaman who<BR>are Darkfriends are revealled when they try to kill Rand. The towering character of Cadsuane Sedai is defined even more as the <BR>epitome of what an Aes Sedai should be, and the first Aes Sedai<BR>worthy of the Challenge of the Dragon Reborn since Moiraine. And<BR>the Aes Sedai discover a way to uncover the Black Ajah. The only<BR>weak point is that Rand really does not do anything to advance us to the conclusion. But that was what he did in the first six books, and the rest of the story needs to catch up, other wise we would have way too many loss ends. The worst part about this book was that it was the shortest one-less than six hundred pages<BR>The only other bad thing was the wait necessary to read the book.	2001-11-14
US	40962234	R2KD89BRN1MP4D	0399128964	88529599	Dune	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I would not read the others, but this book is good.	Dune is an intricate and complex story. I read the book several times, and kept learning about it each time. The only drawbacks that it had to my mind is the overly complex vocabulary and how quickly it leaps into the story without giving the reader enough reference points: you are lost a little bit at the beginning. I would not recommend the other books of the original six. The one exception being Heretics of Dune, which grabbed me by the collar and I could not put it down. Chapterhouse Dune, to me at the time I read it, completely undid everything that Heretics of Dune accomplished. So I truly recommend nothing more by this author, though I add the disclaimer that I was a passionate teenager when I read them, and perhaps if I had read them at a different time in my life, I would not have been so offended. Dune is definitely the most complex of the original books. I have no insight into the Dune books written by Brian Herbert/this is for the original books alone.	2001-10-27
