US	41064927	RG00VWV4Z2KK0	0152051236	58624997	Gifts	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Brilliant, Poetic, and Thought-Provoking	A young girl with a powerful gift over animals that she chooses not to use. A young man on the verge of manhood, troubled by societal and familial expectations, blindfolded for years to prevent his wild gift from causing disaster. A society that places its focus on riches of the mind rather than those of the pocketbook, where bloodline determines destiny...<br /><br />Another brilliant, poetic, thought-provoking story from Ms. LeGuin. In her inimitable way, she postulates one small change to accepted reality--in this case, the premise that a remote and inbred population of hunters, herders, and farmers might possess a variety of inheritable psychic gifts that range from the benign to the terrifying--and creates a plausible society, one which has immediate and profound resonance with our own. A classically-structured tale of self-discovery and self-validation from a true master of the genre of speculative fiction.	2004-11-10
US	41064927	R1XC7CN2YSLF4Z	1400052157	313066518	Idyll Banter: Weekly Excursions to a Very Small Town	Books	5	26	26	N	N	The Personal, Concentrated, Becomes Universal	Much as I love novels, there are times when short, pithy, engaging non-fiction is exactly what I feel like reading. And I am well aware that there are damned few writers in the world who can claim mastery of both forms.  Chris Bohjalian is one such writer, and &quot;Idyll Banter&quot; is a wonderful little book that illuminates an artistic paradox: that the act of sharing what is personal and private somehow irises the experience open into deeply touching universality.<br />I have long admired Bohjalian's work--&quot;Water Witches&quot; and &quot;Midwives&quot; are among my favorite novels--and I recommend &quot;Idyll Banter&quot; unequivocably. His brief, concentrated accounts of births, deaths, weddings, dances, and dinners in a very small town engage the reader in ways not immediately apparent. I've never spent time in Lincoln, Vermont, but I feel that I know these people, somehow. It isn't a rich place, or a perfect one, but it is genuine, and it is beloved, and, in Bohjalian's deft hands, it comes alive: complex, unexpected, deeply rooted in history and advancing winningly into into the 21st century.<br />The best examples of this sort of book creates a sort of envy, a wistfulness, a longing to belong, however briefly, to the place described. Bohjalian manages to create the feelings that we, too, all of us, might have a welcome share in a fulfilling and happy life in this community. And if not to Lincoln, then encouraging us to look again at our own neighborhood and our own families with newly opened and appreciative eyes. Really well done. Really well-written.	2004-06-24
US	41064927	R17MOE42RJ3R9X	0060586605	863190678	A Hat Full of Sky	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Irreverent Humor and Deeply-Rooted Magic	It's sometimes said in theatre that it takes a talented comic to play a tragic role successfully--and that the reverse is not true. Pratchett has the born comedian's deep and loving understanding of the tragedy of the human condition, and it is his gift to us to make us laugh instead of weep...<br />Tiffany Aching, unquenchable heroine of \\"The Wee Free Men,\\" faces new challenges as she leaves her beloved home on the Chalk Downs to begin her training as a witch. New faces, new landscapes, the half-scary company of girls her own age, and a very ancient quasi-evil thing, pursuing her for her powers inborn...<br />No one does it like Mr. Pratchett--this blend of irreverent humor and resonant, edge-of-myth magic. The puns are inexcrably bad (when the Wee Free Men try to impersonate a human being, animating a scarecrow, the one in the head complains, \\"I talk to my knees, but they don't listen to me.\\"), and the magic is undescribingly profound--Tiffany, as did her grandmother before her, seems to embody the very essence of the land she loves. Impossible to do every moment of one's waking life, of course, and Tiffany has to learn the value of not-quite-lies, half-truths, and stories. Granny Weatherwax, witch extraordinaire and my absolute favorite Pratchett character, plays a much stronger part in this story than in \\"Wee Free Men,\\" mixing her pride, her practical psychology, and the most intricate of magics. It's a wonderful, wonder-full story, and I can't wait to read more of Tiffany as she grows.	2004-06-10
US	41064927	R1HJV1HC7UAA0Z	0439531640	208757740	Inkheart	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Exact Opposite of Cliché	Just imagine it--if you had the ability to bring characters in books to life! The people you could meet, the things you could talk about...But think about the dark side of that power--what about the nasties, the evil ones, the shadows...?<br />\\"Inkheart\\" is a wonderful book, and a complex one, intelligent and challenging, with unclich&eacute;d characters and plot-twists, and a truly novel, double-sided premise: that Meggie's book-loving bookbinder father has the ability to draw characters out of books when he reads aloud--literally--and his gift has caused sorrow and tragedy to weigh over their lives. In less capable hands this could go very twee and icky, but Ms. Funke's incredible talent makes it work--the magic is believable, workable, with limits and rules. The villains are nasty, but interesting, multi-faceted. The good guys have their flaws, the bad guys have their human quirks. And the Italian towns and landscape are wonderfully-evoked. Really fine writing!<br />Plus she brings something else to the task--perhaps it's the fact that she's European, and not writing for publication in the American kids-lit pipeline, but there's a cosmpolitan richness to this book that's hard to describe, a sort of assumption that her readers are intelligent book-lovers, which I appreciate greatly.<br />I would nominate \\"Inkheart\\" as one of the best young reader's novels of 2003. What a wonderful creation!	2003-10-23
US	41064927	R29OAGJN6CE259	006039384X	776351801	Mirror Mirror: A Novel	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Poetry, Passion, and Power	A marvelous book, a 300-page temptation, an invocation to the reader to plunge headlong and feetfirst into a tarantella of political intrigue, old magics, subtle loves, and unsubtle appetites...<br />Maguire does not simply take the age-old tale of Snow White and set in in early Renaissance Italy, as others have done in their retellings of the classics. Intriguingly, he finds the place where it fits best, where it lodges, and roots, and grows...and so the story of the beautiful young Bianca becomes tangled with the history of Lucrezia Borgia, her poisons and her passions, and the resulting tapestry is rich, subtle, frightening, and revelational...and no one has EVER explained the dwarves as Maguire has done here, as strange, earthy entities caught somewhere between timeless torpor and true humanity. Lovely, and strange, and highly-recommended.	2003-10-23
US	41064927	RXLLGCKULH1JX	1582293376	645314438	Once Upon a Tandem: A Modern Fable Retold	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Quiet Beauty, Subtle Strength	Too often when I read books from the &quot;Spiritual&quot; or &quot;Inspirational&quot; shelves, I come away feeling that I've been preached at, or excluded from the table, or treated like a four-year-old, but not with &quot;Once Upon a Tandem.&quot; This is a wonderful, friendly, thought-provoking little book, full of quiet beauty and a deep, subtle strength. It has the timeless feel of a familiar, beloved fable, but it's told in an honest, modern voice, and with an honest, modern sensibility: capturing the evasions, self-delusions, surprises, and revelations of a lifetime in spare and quite beautiful prose.<br />And at the purely physical level, it's a beautiful book to hold in the hand, well-designed, a joy to the eyes: sumptuous dustjacket, fine paper, lovely typography, and excellent, evocative block-print illutstrations by Rex Bohn.<br />I would encourage you to consider this book when selecting a gift for the special readers in your life, for those reaching milestones, for those needing uplift as well as for those whose life is filled with joy. Amazing and unexpectedly warming to the heart and spirit. Very well done!	2003-10-22
US	41064927	RW2HD3KZ5TYNV	0824827473	675665392	Hard Bargaining in Sumatra: Western Travelers and Toba Bataks in the Marketplace of Souvenirs (Southeast Asia)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Fascinating Reader-Friendly Scholarship	This book is a true rarity--a work of serious scholarship, written in a user-friendly, personal, poetic, eminently-readable style. You'd almost be fooled into thinking you were reading a romantic travel narrative, one of those popular memoirs &agrave; la &quot;Under the Tuscan Sun&quot; where a naive American goes off and has a life-transforming experience while in a foreign land. But as Dr. Causey relates his tales of the months spent with the Toba Batak in their remote, beautiful homeland in northern Sumatra, learning something about their culture, something about woodcarving, and a LOT about shopping, he also unfolds a series of subtle, complex observations about aesthetics, about colonialism and acquisition, and about the role of tourists / collectors in a market economy and their effect as both destroyers and saviors of traditional culture. Absolutely fascinating stuff, and certainly not just for students of anthropology--this is a book that should be read by art historians as well as by economists, as well as by anyone who simply enjoys a well-written tale of a beautiful place that they've never been...<br />I particularly admire &quot;Hard Bargaining&quot; for the lack of any tang of cultural superiority on Dr. Causey's part--he never assumes that he knows more than the people he's observing, or that since he has a Ph.D., his observations must be considered correct. He went there; he lived, he learned, he shopped; and he thought about it, hard, and critically, comparing the Toba Batak culture to our own, and letting the reader make the judgement calls, not the anthropologist. Very well done!	2003-10-09
US	41064927	RD6GLGQPKN0EL	193156146X	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Complex, Brilliant, and All So True...	This is absolutely the best novel I have read this year, a strange, wonderful, contradictory love story, at once both simple and complex, both fantastical and true---completely logical but with a fascinating magical-realism edge to it. Niffenegger alters one teensy little detail (a genetic fluke that causes a man to be transported, unexpectedly and uncontrollably, naked and vulnerable, anywhere throughout his lifetime) and then tells the story that results. And what a story it is: Clare, an artist, and Henry, a time-travelling librarian, and their true, true love, painful and glorious in its give and take, in its aggression and surrender, in its family ties and dark personal singularities...<br />One of the things that I admire most about it is the absolute clarity of the two voices in which the narrative takes place. I enjoy novels written in the first-person, if the characters are interesting people, and in this novel I'm doubly-lucky: at a glance, one can tell who is speaking, whether it's Henry as an adult or Clare as a child, as well as their states of mind. An additional pleasure is the setting, a strongly-evoked Chicagoland, with all its gritty streets, quirky restaurants, secret neighborhoods, and atmospheric weather.<br />I can't recommend this book highly-enough. How many ways can I say the words \\"unique,\\" \\"entrancing,\\" and \\"fabulous\\"? It's not like anything I've ever read before, and until Ms. Niffenegger writes her next, it's unlikely that I'll read anything like it again.	2003-09-23
US	41064927	R1HPFTT6RNDT82	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dark, Deep, Daring---and Triumphant	So there I was, caught in a dilemma, leaving London very early on Saturday, June 21st, and I was torn---I knew that I needed to go to bed at a reasonable time, but I had also seen the signs trumpeting the news that Borders would be open from midnight to 1 AM to sell the new Harry Potter book...Exhaustion? Ha! What would Harry Potter do? Stay awake! So I did get a copy of the UK edition...and finished it on the plane, in one, long, glorious six-hour gulp of reading. The flight attendants all wanted me to tell them the plot...But I wouldn't. This is definitely a book to experience for yourself.<br />It's a good book, maybe the best of the series so far, with a steady, sturdy drive towards the climax and denouement---but it's the darkest tale yet, full of angst, uncertainty, conflicts, disillusionments, and identity crises. It doesn't have nearly so simple a plot-line-arc as the first three books, and Harry is not nearly as simple a character as when he was at eleven, twelve, and thirteen years old. He can be magentic, repulsive, generous, selfish, selfless, all at once---in short, Harry is growing up, and in addition to the ordinary teenage traumas, he's got scholastic and magical ones to face. And face them he does, with strength, courage, intelligence, and the help of good friends.<br />There is some very interesting (and very timely) commentary on the power of the press to manipulate public feelings, and some memorable new characters (the new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor is a truly hateful woman, and a type I think many people will recognize, more interested in schooling than in education), and more in-depth information about different faculty members' backgrounds and characters (the more I read about Minerva McGonigle, the more I admire her, and wish I'd had her for a teacher in high school). Ron and Hermione are also growing up, in ways both obvious and subtle. The focus on the school-ness of the series is strong again---more about classes and exams, though we don't get to hear about the results of Harry's OWLS until the next book, alas...<br />I recognized and sympathized with Harry's coming-of-age frustrations, pains, and stumblings, even more so as he discovered new facts about his idolized father's feet of clay and his beloved godfather's recklessness. I felt myself holding my breath, my eyes glued to the page, as Harry struggled, physically, emotionally, and magically, against his many enemies, and I was absolutely mesmerized by the inevitable climactic battle scene with Lord Voldemort---vividly-written and horrifying-real. Yes, it's a dark book, but to insist that the story be all sweetness and light, a romantic, undangerous kiddie-adventure, would be doing a deep injustice to the character of Harry Potter (and to his legions of readers) and to the muse of fiction writing...<br />I liked it very, very, very much---please, Ms. Rowling, don't make us wait so long next time!hough we don't get to hear about the results of Harry's OWLS until the next book, alas...<br />I recognized and sympathized with Harry's coming-of-age frustrations, pains, and stumblings, even more so as he discovered new facts about his idolized father's feet of clay and his beloved godfather's recklessness. I felt myself holding my breath, my eyes glued to the page, as Harry struggled, physically, emotionally, and magically, against his many enemies, and I was absolutely mesmerized by the inevitable climactic battle scene with Lord Voldemort---vividly-written and horrifying-real. Yes, it's a dark book, but to insist that the story be all sweetness and light, a romantic, undangerous kiddie-adventure, would be doing a deep injustice to the character of Harry Potter (and to his legions of readers) and to the muse of fiction writing...<br />I liked it very, very, very much---please, Ms. Rowling, don't make us wait so long next time!	2003-06-23
US	41064927	RXQNH81096M35	044101013X	578065247	Angelica	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Meshing Science Fiction, Romance, and Song	Return to the planet Samaria, where a secretive god watches over the land, where winged angels sing prayers to control the weather, and where opposites meet and find true love...Once again, the talented Ms. Shinn had created one of her fascinating melanges of fine world-building, music, and excellent characterization. ANGELICA takes place only a few hundred years after the founding of Samaria by interstellar colonists fleeing seeking peace and harmony, and at first glance, the plot may seem to echo that of ARCHANGEL, Shinn's first book in this series: Susannah, a woman of the wandering Edori tribes, has been selected by the overseeing &quot;god&quot; to marry Gaaron, the archangel-to-be. But as the story takes place much earlier in the history of the culture, and with mysterious violent invaders threatening lives and stability, the fascination with these people and this planet is woven anew, and differently, and engagingly. What is not different is Shinn's marvellous ability to evoke the glories of song, whether in formal prayers in an angel hold, or around an Edori campfire, along with her talent for creating the most memorable of characters and a truly unique socio-cultural matrix. Shinn is one of my favorite writers working today, and as I applaud her for this novel, I am impatiently awaiting the next.	2003-03-24
US	41064927	R312ZTPNO9SLPR	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mysterious Truths, Truthful Mysteries	The heart of this novel is the sometimes-shocking, sometimes-loving story of Sibyl, an experienced midwife who tragically loses a patient during childbirth while saving the life of the baby. A trial ensues, the details of which are told mostly in flashbacks from the point-of-view of Sibyl's then-teenage daughter, and the tension builds with each chapter (the verdict is not revealed until very near the end).<br />This is not just a mystery whodunit, however, as much as a coming-of-age story---not just for the teenage girl, but also for Sibyl, her husband, and others. Chapters begin with excerpts from Sibyl's diaries, and in the contrast between these entries and the main narrative we begin to glimpse the subtlety of truth---how it varies from person to person and situation to situation. As in Bohjalaian's previous novel, the excellent Water Witches, the Vermont countryside is lovingly evoked. the landscape almost becomes a character with moods and impulses---the icy roads of winter, the sudden onset of a thunderstorm, the blazing red of autumn trees, the tiny villages, and the large lake that seems to mirror Subyl's humors. Midwives offers much to ponder---highly recommended.	2003-02-14
US	41064927	R20BZDRLRAWSUQ	0062050648	526456558	The Story of Little Babaji	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Terrific Story, Rescued!	Yes, it's the old, old story of \\"Little Black Sambo,\\" written a century ago by Bannerman, an Englishwoman living in India---but here, thank goodness, reworked, revised, rescued! With all the nasty bits replaced. Authentic Indian names are used, and the wonderful illustrations by Fred Marcellino place it firmly in India, where it always belonged. The story itself has never been anything but terrific---the boy is brave, resourceful, and clever, gets himself out of a life-threatening situation, and his parents are loving and generous---but the weighty baggage of colonialism and racism (we won't even go into the history of British imperialism in India) prevented it from being enjoyed by anyone. As the book stands now, it can join the ranks of useful, funny, multicultural classics. Plus, it's a great story to read aloud, and kids like it.	2003-02-14
US	41064927	R2JAGJJNUXZ9U5	0300083475	891640050	The Stone Circles of Britain, Ireland, and Brittany	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fine Scholarship, Fine Writing	I am not accustomed to purchasing so expensive and specialized a book, but in the early autumn of 1979, I had the privilege of working on a Scottish dig run by Dr. Burl, and I have long admired his scholarship and dedication---and this revision is, simply put, GREAT! The depth of information is astounding, and I found the the presentation engrossing, the subject fascinating, and the style quite readable---certainly NOT only for students or devotees of archaeology. I can't recommend this one highly enough---it may seem like something of an indulgence for your personal library, but it's worth every penny. Alas, the book is far to heavy to carry about in one's luggage, but I've already marked at least two dozen sites that I want to visit the next time I cross the Atlantic. In the meantime, settle back in a comfortable chair and get ready to cast your mind back a couple of millenia...	2003-02-11
US	41064927	R33I0DGYUNMBY1	1582431841	259501582	The People of the Sea: A Journey in Search of the Seal Legend	Books	3	10	17	N	N	An Unsuccessful Quest?	I have to say that I was disappointed with this book. It seems less about the legends about the selkie folk and more about what the author thinks he might feel about such legends---it feels removed, remote, uncommitted. If he was really on search for the truth behind the stories, he didn't seem to be searching very hard, and he didn't seem to share his results particularly successfully, and I never really felt touched by any sense of Celtic other-worldliness---and that's what I was hoping for and waiting for. The introduction by Seamus Heaney was, alas, the best part of the book...	2003-02-11
US	41064927	R32AP1FNE06E7J	0789487993	492800655	Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautifully-Told and Beautifully-Illustrated	One can always trust the talents of Joan Aiken to put a fresh spin on an enduring classic. It's wonderful to read a version of the Snow White story in which the heroine is not pure sappiness personified, where the wicked queen is not simply the embodiment of all that is evil, where the magic mirror has something of a sarcastic attitude, and where so many little details of the story, long taken for granted, are actually EXPLAINED: why the queen has these magical powers, how she acquired the mirror, how the huntsman handled his deception, what the dwarves' names were, where the charming prince lived...And the embroidered illustrations are, just simply, magical---the detail and cleverness will hold the attention of any squirming small child. I can't wait to read this aloud to my niece and nephew, and show them the wonderful pictures.	2002-12-31
US	41064927	R7JZKBIQNEU2E	0618196269	46968156	Midnight is a Place	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Wonderful Introduction to the Classic Gothic Thriller	It's got all the ingredients of a classic Gothic thriller (the creepy mansion, the unpleasant guardian, the servant with a hidden past, the lonely orphan, the depressing, filthy, poverty-stricken town, the sudden reversals of fortune, the mysterious benefactor) but MIDNIGHT IS A PLACE is written for that twilight area in the great scheme of publishing demographics--somewhere between middle school and adult, somewhere past chapter books but not quite ready for Great Literature. And in Aiken's expert hands, this is a wonderful place to explore. Lucas Bell, the lonely orphan with the unpleasant guardian, lives in the frightening mansion called Midnight Court, is taught by the servant with the hidden past, is subjected to the sudden reversals of fortune, including the unexpected arrival of another orphan (Anne-Marie, a plucky young French girl), a devastating fire, the need to find work in the local factory, the help of a secretive old lady, and the long unraveling of the mystery of his name and fortune. It's glorious stuff, over-the-top, a wonderful read, moody and frightening and funny by turns, managing both to exploit the genre and to rise above it. Young readers who have enjoyed the Lemony Snicket books, and who are now ready for something better, something real, something that's sort of a complex three-way cross between Dickens, Austen, and old-fashioned Gothic romances, will enjoy this book. It'd be a quick read for adults, but I'd recommend it to anyone who loves the genre.	2002-11-14
US	41064927	R3I0CQNVKCCCOQ	0441004326	776626933	Archangel (Samaria, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mesmerizing, Subtle SF Writing	A world where beautiful winged angels sing prayers of supplication and praise to an omniscient god---a god who answers their prayers with weather changes, medicines which drop from the sky, lightning bolts to punish the nonbelievers...A world where oracles speak to the god via half-forgotten heiroglyphics on mysterious glassy screens...SF readers are familiar (perhaps over -familiar) with the theme of lost Terran colonies rediscovering their heritage, and the chaos it causes to their stratified societies---think McCaffrey's Pern, think Bradley's Darkover, think Tepper's Lom, and now add Samaria to that (too-short) list of beautifully-written, fully-realized planets where a talented author has imagined one or two slight alterations/additions/ extrapolations and then let the story fly. And Archangel does indeed fly. A political struggle: between the power-mad Raphael, the out-going Archangel of the planet, and the serious, responsible Gabriel, due to take over as Archangel...A romance: Gabriel must seek and marry the woman which the god has chosen to sing beside him, a woman destined to complement him in every way. This woman, Rachel, having survived terror, poverty, and enslavement, has other plans for her life, but destiny is difficult to escape...<br />I love this book, and its sequels, Jovah's Angel and The Alleluia Files, which take place centuries after Archangel. I admire the writing and characterization greatly, and the subtlety of the \\"hard\\" science, and I really love the overarching metaphor of song and harmony as communion with the god and with each other. Shinn makes me want to visit in Samaria---I'd rank her up there with Ursula LeGuin as a world-builder in whom a reader can believe.	2002-11-08
US	41064927	R3HR6QC4RAB4WC	0912818034	682153324	Marling Menu-Master for France (Marling menu masters series)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Indispensable Info in a User-Friendly Format	No matter how well (or how poorly) you may speak French, this little book is an indispensable addition to your travel kit. It can help you navigate the dizzying varieties of delicious sauces, the hundreds of preparation styles, the regional specialities, and keep you from ordering kidneys when you thought you were asking for veal cutlets...Helpful pages, too, on money, numbers, basic traveller's phrases. Plus it's small enough to be consulted with discretion at cafes or bistros...and don't forget how helpful it would be for ordering with confidence in your favorite French restaurant back home.	2002-11-08
US	41064927	R1P2Z5MYW7WNGZ	0767904559	773255064	On Rue Tatin: Living and Cooking in a French Town	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Envy and Enchantment	There are many---perhaps too many---first-person narratives about adventurous Americans falling in love with Provence, with Tuscany, with Portugal, and deciding willy-nilly to move there, to buy and renovate a house. Invariable we laugh and sigh and commiserate with their struggles with the language, the culture, the habits of the natives, the rules and regulations of the government. But many of these, to my mind, fall far short of the ideal---which should be to create a feeling of both envy and enchantment. Ms. Loomis, with On Rue Tatin, does both. This book not only tells a wonderful story but tells it wonderfully. The sights, the sounds, the scents, the tastes, of building a new life in an old, old house in a small French town---a wonderfully-humorous and never-too-self-congratulatory voyage into the fulfillment of one person's life-dream: to live, work, and write in France. If you've ever used one of Ms. Loomis' excellent cookbooks in your kitchen, you'll know how thorough, precise, and user-friendly her writing is---I've never had to struggle with one of her recipes, no matter how obscure and unfamiliar the ingredients---and this memoir (which, joyfully, also includes recipes! Try the mussels in apple cider vinegar) gives further proof to the strength of her writing talents. A really lovely little book, sure to set the romantics among us daydreaming....	2002-11-05
US	41064927	R1JV2JEWNXU6M4	0441009751	191756753	A Fistful of Sky (A LaZelle Family Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Family Dynamics--with a wild-card twist	This latest novel by this award-winning writer arrived by FedEx late yesterday afternoon, and I stayed up till midnight to finish it, unwilling and unable to put it down. A blessing? A curse? No, just a pleasure, a wonder, a glimpse through a brilliant window into an arcanely-twisted world. The LaZelles are just a typical Los Angeles family---big house, lots of kids, elderly relatives, family feuds---except for the fact that its members, sometime in their teens, go through a painful &quot;transition&quot; and become magic-users, their talents blossoming in weird and wonderful ways. In this generation, the middle daughter, Gypsum, is resigned to remaining Ordinary, but finds herself, at 20 years of age, coping with her talented witchy siblings, her opinionated witchy mother, her psychoanalytic father, her college career, her body-image---and with a late, and dangerous, delayed transition, leaving her with the unwelcome and unkind power of cursing, which no one in the family has borne for many years. Follow along as Gyp learns to cope with the parameters of her powers, as the story veers from the absurdly funny to the painfully tragic and back again, continually humming with an edgy, mythic resonance of Other-but-Familiar.<br />I admire Hoffman's writing greatly, and recommend this A Fistful of Sky highly. With just one clever little twist to one of the everyday postulates which we take for granted, the world, in Hoffman's capable hands, becomes a very different place---and what makes it work so well is the depth and honesty of the characterization. However weird this family is, Hoffman makes these people live and breathe, even as they're throwing tantrums, throwing fire, or throwing curses.	2002-11-01
US	41064927	R1RWS6KB9G7V36	0380772531	388116563	The Thread That Binds the Bones (A Chapel Hollow Novel)	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Close to Home, and Far Away	I picked this up by chance, was entranced by it, and immediately sought and bought everything I could find by Hoffman. Exactly the kind of story that I love, in that twilit area where This-world touches some Other-world---think of Zenna Henderson, think of Ray Bradbury, think of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but different, edgier, more close-to-home and more far-away... It's the story of an extended, inbred Family where half-magical, half-psychic powers are inherited, and one's status within the family dependent on the strength of those powers. Into this mix comes an outsider with powers like and unlike those of the Family, in love with a semi-outcast daughter, who together seem to be a hope for a very different future. An exciting adventure, with exact and careful characterization and evocative, beautiful writing. Its sequel, The Silent Strength of Stones, is just as interesting, and I am eager for the next Family novel.<br />This is one of those books I bought because the cover was interesting---not that we judge a book by its cover, but let's never forget that the cover is an integral part of the total book experience...	2002-10-24
US	41064927	ROTS0B1U3NC8T	031286261X	351277423	The Tooth Fairy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Experienced But Never Explained	An award-winning, WAY freaky little novel by British writer Graham Joyce...Sam stashes a tooth under his pillow, as millions before him have done, and wakes to find the Tooth Fairy in his room. Not the pixie-dust version, but an oddly-dressed, sexually-ambiguous and aggressive other, who interfers/intervenes in Sam's life from then on. Brilliant, disturbing, modern-with-mythic overtones, a coming of age story in 60's/70's small-town Britain, urban sprawl, disaffected youth, violence, sex, drugs and all. If you like the Charles DeLint/Emma Bull/Will Shetterly sort of urban fantasy, this one will blow you away; it's so much better, so much richer, more frightening and more full of wonder. Not much is explained, but so much is experienced...	2002-10-01
US	41064927	R36D9ZOFVGIOWK	0060934719	26552478	Stardust	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful, and Full of Wonders	Having read a couple of Neil Gaiman's previous novels, I wasn't sure about picking up Stardust---I've always admired his writing, but I'm not into the horrific---but I'm very glad I did. It's a quieter fantasy, intricate, charming (in the old sense), resonant with intimations of myth and legend, striking some very deep chords of memory---or something like memory. Eerie. Odd. Numinous. It reminds me somewhat of Peter Beagle's The Last Unicorn, in its austere, antique simplicity of plot combined with unexpected and unclich&eacute;d twists of magic.<br />A deceptively-simple tale: in early Victorian days, a young man has a brief-but-life-turning experience at the once-every- nine-years Market at the town of Wall,which is one of the very last places in this world where the realm of Faerie can be accessed. Many years later his son makes his own way to Faerie, pursuing a fallen star and a secret destiny.<br />And it all comes down to: just simply wonderful, full of wonders,  and some of it quite funny, commenting on Victorian mores and the endlessly-rehashed genre of the fairy story itself. I prefer the regular novel to the graphic novel, myself, because I like to make up the story's pictures in my own head...	2002-10-01
US	41064927	R33O8N15HPKDLI	0553111248	417245650	Passage	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Lyrical SF Mystery	A lyrical, intricately-plotted science fiction/sort-of-a-mystery novel, the story of doctors doing research on near-death experiences, or NDEs. Some amusing contrasts with new-age types who prefers to call them \\"near-afterlife experiences.\\" Some really beautiful extended sections describing the dream-like (and un-dream-like) aspects of the NDEs. Some achingly-sad plot twists. Lots of big words---names of brain chemicals, medical procedures, technical terminology---but if all fit together wonderfully. One of those books which I resented having to put down to go to sleep or to work. I was rooting for the good guys to win...<br />I admire Willis' novels very much. She can be quite funny without ever resorting to slapstick or clich&eacute;s---also quite heartfelt and touching. Highly recommended!	2002-10-01
US	41064927	RDXQCMTS212U7	0670218413	98047283	China Court	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Echoes of the Past and Future	This is one of my favorite books of all time, definitely in my personal Top 10, one I recommend to everyone who's a serious reader of fiction. To those uninitiated into Godden's unique writing style, it might seem stilted, aging badly, a typical mid-century &quot;women's novel,&quot; but there is something wonderful in store for those who take the plunge. For a non-science-fiction novel, this book deals with time in an almost-magical-realism manner. Yes, in some ways it's just one more of those multi-generational-family novels, but the 100-plus years covered all seem to take place simultaneously, the past informing the present, the future humming softly in the shadows. On one page, in one paragraph, even, you might hear dialogue from any one of the vast cast of characters, living at any point of the house's existence. Something else I like very much about this book---the way we get to know this fictional family slowly, intimately, secrets and warts and all, echoing the way you might get become familiar with any new set of friends...As a bonus, there are lovely, intricate, twining, twisting plot-lines about rare books, beautiful gardens, destiny, love, and the wild Cornish countryside. I can't recommend it highly enough, even though I know perfectly well that there are philistines out there who will dislike it...and I think it's criminal that it's gone out of print again. Hunt it down! Buy it! Read it! You won't be sorry.	2002-09-30
US	41064927	R12XPQT65LDM2W	0345450523	120324008	Billie's Kiss	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Romantic (in the old sense of the word)	A penniless young woman, a bit simple (perhaps dyslexic?), a survivor of a dockside explosion on a bleakly-remote Scottish island...A moody relative of the local landowner, suspicious of/attracted to the young woman in question...A comotose brother-in-law, a pompous (but generous) rich paterfamilias and his various relatives and hangers-on... The recipe for a turgid potboiler, a typical Gothic romance? Well, if you think of the word &quot;romantic&quot; as having its base in the word &quot;roman,&quot; the French for &quot;book,&quot; then I guess that Billie's Kiss fits the definition, but in Elizabeth Knox's capable hands, this homage to the old-fashioned thriller goes far beyond the expected. Her writing captivates, catching her characters' complexities of personality in a just a few deft lines. She has the ability to make the unexpected and unlikely perfectly believable---this novel is nothing like her previous book, The Vintner's Luck, but they share a profound sense of edgy otherworldliness, of inexplicable fate, and her writing skills are such as to pull the  reader thouroughly and willingly into her world-view. I liked this one very much, and I am eager for Ms. Knox's next.	2002-09-30
US	41064927	R2L1JWCZOJW8GU	055357857X	812963227	The Dead Cat Bounce: A Home Repair is Homicide Mystery	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wicked Good	I read these over the summer, while vacationing near Boothbay Harbor---three engrossingly-interesting paperback mysteries set in Eastport, Maine, about as far Down East as a body can go...The Dead Cat Bounce, Triple Witch and Wicked Fix feature the indomitable Jacobia Tiptree, an escapee from the NYC financial scene (the first two titles derive from Wall Street slang for troublesome stock market situations), divorced from a high-maintenance neurosurgeon, who, having purchased an antique home in the easternmost city in the USA, spends all of her time and money fixing it up, raising her bright son, bonding with new friends, and solving the little problem of the bodies which keep turning up...in her mudroom, in the tidepools, in a boat's bait-box, hanging from the cemetery gate...<br />I really like these books! Not condescending regarding the Maine born-and-bred characters, but not over-romanticizing them, either. Graves catches the nuances of this small town on the sea's edge: the unrelenting hard work, the poverty, the long-gone fabled wealthy glory days of Eastport, the incredible natural beauty, the Edward-Hopper-like landscapes and the wealth of historical homes and buildings. She also manages to capture the feeling of being \\"from away\\" in a closed, tight-knit society where everyone knows everyone else's business and family skeletons...Jacobia's voice is a friendly, funny one, easy to like, and the supporting characters are all well-drawn and distinctive. Nor does she pull any punches in regards to the yuck-factor of murder: some of the descriptions are not for the squeamish. These ain't no tea-and-crumpets, civilized little murder mysteries...I can't wait to read more.	2002-09-30
US	41064927	R3S5HX32ML74MX	0152017666	900270918	The Weirdstone of Brisingamen: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When Magic Awakens, Next Door...	A simple holiday in the rural countryside south of Manchester...a legacy, a glittery bit of crystal worn on a girl's wrist...an ancient legend which resonates down through the centuries, sleeping, but never dying...High wizardry, dark sorcery, secrets and whispers and folk tales coming to life...and one of the most truly terrifying sequences in all of fantasy fiction, fleeing monstrous enemies in the black depths of an abandoned mine...<br />Alan Garner is one of my very favorite British authors. I applaud the way he inverts the all-too-common recipe for young readers' speculative fiction: instead of transporting the protagonists into some magical land (i.e. like Narnia) he prefers to depict modern kids dealing with ancient magic leaking into the here and now. Terrifying, to have old powers awaken...and fascinating, the mythic stories which linger in the British countryside to this day, contorted and convoluted, but still identifiable, still powerful, still sending shivers up the back.<br />The sequel to The Weirdstone of Brisingamen is The Moon of Gomrath---these two novels embody really terrific storytelling, fascinating and fabulous ...	2002-09-30
US	41064927	R3MKFAI1Z70CV2	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Let Yourself Be Captured	Dodie Smith may be best-known as the author of The One Hundred and One Dalmatians, but she was the author of many hit West End plays and several best-selling books. If you enjoy mid-20th-century British fiction, may I recommend a perfect gem of a novel, back in print after many years a-languishing: I Capture the Castle, told in first-person narration by Cassandra Mortmain, the younger daughter of a family of impoverished eccentrics living in a small run-down castle in the British countryside, as she tries to &quot;capture&quot; her life in her private journal. Her father is a once-famous writer with a seemingly-insurmountable case of writer's block; her stepmother Topaz is an unusually-gorgeous former model with pretentions of artistry and a loving heart; her beloved sister Rose is hungry for some sort--any sort!--of change. Into this almost Austen-like situation comes Simon, the new landlord, an upper-class American from New England, along with his informal younger brother, raised in California, and their &quot;club woman&quot; mother, and suddenly the potentials and possibilities and coincidences become endlessly interesting...Will Simon propose to Rose? Will Mortmain ever write again? Will Cassandra's swain kiss her in the bluebell wood? Perhaps it doesn't sound like much, but it's engaging and endearing, a period-piece with &quot;good bones&quot; and long-lasting, pleasurable resonance, still holding up well after half a century on the shelves.<br />On my top-40 list, certainly, if not my top-10. I can't recommend this one highly enough.	2002-09-26
US	41064927	R2I5D7G0FM7B3B	0553574760	770477763	Death at Buckingham Palace: Her Majesty Investigates	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Murder Most Royal	This novel, along with its sequels, are among the very few mystery novels that I enjoy reading over and over. Perhaps this is because of the fresh, friendly voice of the narrator, Jane Bee, a smart and lively young woman from Prince Edward Island, who, while visiting Great Britain, happens into a housemaid position at Buckingham Palace, and very quickly stumbles (literally) upon a dead body, right at Her Majesty's sensible-shoe-clad feet...And perhaps it's because of the writing skills of C.C. Benison, who gives the reader the feeling of being a Palace insider, with all the good gossip, the pet names for the Royals, the unmentionable scourge of the corgis, even the secret of what the Queen actually keeps in her purse...Really excellent good fun, and I can only say that I wish that there were more of them to read and re-read and recommend.	2002-09-25
US	41064927	RNYQXFGVFQTIV	0061044431	486404326	The Salaryman's Wife	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Strong, Delicate, Enticing Complexity	You wouldn't think that a murder mystery would be the best introduction to another country, but Massey does for Japan what Hillerman does for the Native American Southwest: she provides a window into the magnetic and enticing complexity that is modern Japan. Rei Shimura, daughter of a Japanese father and a Causasian American mother, lover of antique kimonos and prints, is living hand-to-mouth in Tokyo, eking out a living teaching English to Japanese businessmen, trying to embrace a fascinating heritage which, at many levels, rejects her as a gaijin, a half-blood, a foreigner---it's a brilliant concept, one which guarantees that we, the readers, also outsiders, can be drawn into Rei's world. Rei gets the chance to take a brief winter vacation at a rural bathing spa, and meets a cast of characters which includes a sexy Scottish lawyer, a loud American touriste, and the well-off \\"salaryman\\" (upper management businessman) of the title, as well as his glamourous wife, who winds up shockingly dead in the snow on a bitterly cold night. We now begin to follow Rei on a wild ride that includes the baffling complexities of Japanese police procedure, the threat of the Tokyo mob, break-ins, spying, further murders and attempted murders, and the tickling intrigue of the provenance of a small antique wooden box, as Rei tries to unknot a long-hidden, truly-baffling tangle of deceit, inheritance, regrets, and revenge.<br />Massey is terrific at depicting an intelligent modern women, in love with a vibrant modern country, a person who also has a deep romantic yearning for the Japan-that-was. She captures a Tokyo that is almost frighteningly fast-paced and expensive, and has created a heroine whom you'd love to have as a friend or a tour guide--or on your side when the going gets murky. Very well done, and I can't wait to read more Rei Shimura novels.	2002-08-21
US	41064927	R2HCO1P9NED3Q6	0064408183	492869537	Weetzie Bat (10th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Brilliant and Bizarre	Block's Weetzie Bat books are the ultimate in teenage rebellion, and have won all kinds of \\"best for reluctant readers\\" awards. They're modern-day Los Angeles magical realism, simultaneously gritty, au courant, absurdly impossible---and beautiful. And funny. And tragic. I'm always cautious about recommending them unless the parents are involved in the reading process, because of certain could-be-threatening plot twists (babies out of wedlock, gay heroes, Wiccan references), but they're terrifically interesting and accessible books, once you get into Block's flowing, lyrical, off-the-wall writing style.<br />One of the strong underlying themes of the entire series is the seeking out and assembling of alternative families, in place of the dysfunctioning genetic family. And there are a great many conservative adults out there who don't really want teenagers to become aware that this is possible...	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R27TMBGBX66CO	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fabulous, Fascinating Time-Capsules	I love Tales of the City! And I like to recommend them to people, but there's been some backlash from some folks about a certain laxity of morals in some characters' behaviours...It can be a wee bit difficult to reconcile 70s San Francisco with the 21st Century. Since the first couple of books in this series are pretty much collected compilations of the columns he wrote for the SF Chronicle, they're very much time-capsules of the period in which he was living and writing. It's tragic to read them with 20/20 hindsight, knowing whats we know about AIDS, but also important to remember why the 70s were the way they were. Maupin has always fearlessly and shamelessly mined his own personal life(and others') for fictional material, so it seems pretty safe to assume that, in broad outline (minus some of the absurdity and semi-magical-realism of the books) that the emotional plot-matrix is true and semi-autobiographical... i.e., he was there, he lived it, he writes about it, and to change the politically-incorrect parts would be disingenuous (though they weren't so incorrect then--they were pushing the envelope on what was moral, social and political---perhaps it was adolescent rebellion, but it was rebellion nonetheless).<br />I wish I could have been there. I don't know if I would have behaved the way that Michael, Marianne, and Mrs. Madrigal do, but I would have loved to have known them, then and now.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R2XX1ZDW6AHV9	0141001941	259855300	Hungry for Home: Leaving the Blaskets: A Journey from the Edge of Ireland	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Deep Yearning	The people of the Blasket Islands, off the west coast of Kerry in Ireland, became famous for their storytelling (Twenty Years A-Growing, Peig, and The Islandman), for the purity of their Gaelic and their old Irish culture, and ultimately for the tragic removal of the dwindling population to the mainland. Cole Moreton, in 1998, began researching the history of this removal, digging up old newspaper stories, governmental records, and speaking to the few remaining living Islanders. It's a wonderful, sad, beautifully-written tale, never shrinking from the awful bits, and I came away from it yearning for a homeplace for which I could feel so deeply. (The western suburbs of Chicago just don't cut it...)	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R2K1KN1GWGJN8B	0553578170	833483533	Jane and the Wandering Eye: Being the Third Jane Austen Mystery	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Intriguing Concept	This is the third of a series of not-at-all-unpleasant mysteries from Stephanie Barron, written with the conceipt that they are actually long-lost journals from the pen of Jane Austen, found in a distant American relative's belongings, and detailing Jane's family, friends, society and the mysterious events in which she keeps finding herself embroiled...In this volume, a man is murdered during a masquerade party during a Christmastide in fashionable Bath, and whispers a name as he expires--but how many women happened to be named &quot;Maria&quot; during Austen's time?<br />These novels are like brief vacations to a vanished never-land of Regency England...The period detailing seems authentic; the language is Austen-like, as far as that can go, and there are pseudo-scholarly footnotes to explain unfamiliar terms and concepts. Well worth reading!	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R3EGV4D0ACFZWF	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Master-Piece	Having seen the movie adaptation twice, and looking forward with great eagerness to the next installment, I decided it was time to re-read the novel. I used to read it twice a year, religiously, starting from when I was in grade school---third or fourth grade, I think---and even now I pick it up at least a three or four times every decade. I can still write my name in Elf-runes...<br />I was (and am) fascinated by Tolkien's world-building, so desperately imitated by so many neophyte fantasy writers. This world-building is a good portion of the attraction of the book, for me. It feels so complete. As a kid, I wanted so much to believe that it was true (not, at that point, being able or willing to differentiate between the truth of art-making and the truth of history). It resonates at a very deep level for me, all those Jungian archetypes and half-remembered myths. At a time when I was becoming aware (and frightened) of my own adolescent mortality, I wanted desperately to believe in the immortality of the Elves...And every time I go back to it, I am surprised all over again at how grand the story-telling is---I tend to remember the writing as beautiful but lugubrious, but Tolkien actually evokes places and personalities swiftly and skillfully.<br />I read a lot of schlock in the early 70's which featured large ad-copy: &quot;Not since Tolkien has an author blah blah, blah...&quot; but there are very few who work satisfied me as his did (and still does). Ursula K. LeGuin. Octavia Butler, Sheri Tepper, Orson Scott Card. Sharon Shinn. Ray Bradbury when he's not overdosing on lyricism. But Tolkien is the Master, the one to go back to. I'm not as fond of The Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales, but I can gladly recommend Smith of Wootten Major and Farmer Giles of Ham---both terrific little books with deep resonance.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1ICS50BE291AK	1573229083	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Stinging, Scalding, Uplifting	My Dream of You is one of the most best books that I've read this year. It's the intensely-felt, beautifully-written, and deeply-moving story of a brief period in the life of travel writer Kathleen Burke (Caitl&iacute;n de Burca in the Irish), told in unrelentingly-honest first-person narration, during which she examines in minute and searing detail the events of her childhood, youth, and adulthood. In comparing her own life with those of the principals in a scandalous divorce case during the Great Famine years, and in attempting to reconnect with family, friends, and ancestry kept at a distance too long, Kathleen leads the reader step by step through the pain, struggles, and triumph of her fifty years on earth.<br />More than anything else, this is a novel about survival: although millions died during the Famine, the survivors went on to found the Irish nation; although Kathleen's life has been filled (and overflowed at times) with the suffering and the remorse of unexamined fears and misdirected ideals, she has gone on to build a successful career and now, perhaps, will create something true and important in the latter part of her life. O'Faolain's writing is filled with the most perfect of imagery, capturing a room, an innkeeper, a lake in a valley, in just a few well-chosen words.<br />At the end I put my head in my hands and quietly wept--in sympathy, or, more accurately, in cathartic empathy for Kathleen's middle-aged awakening. I can't recommend this book highly-enough: lyrical, contradictory, gritty, poetic, romantic in the deep, deep sense of the word, stinging and scalding and uplifting in turn, Irish to the core. Simply beautiful, with nothing simple about it.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	RBNJ23IBORFS3	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Serendipity Strikes Again	I don't know how this series escaped me, but I'd never picked up one of Terry Pratchett's Diskworld novels before...but while on vacation, and desperate in an airport for something to read, I picked up the Legends 3 anthology of short novels (only because it had an Earthsea novella, Dragonfly, by Ursula K. Le Guin), which happened to contain a Diskworld story. I read it because it was there, and because United had delayed take-off by three hours...Serendipity!<br />Pratchett's Diskworld, for those of you unfamiliar with the series, is quite flat...borne on the backs of four giant elephants, which in turn are supported by a galactic-sized turtle flying through the cosmos...is home to wizards, witches, dragons, zombies, demons, trolls, knights, dwarves, all the usual suspects of worldwide, multi-traditional heroic fantasy. But Pratchett deftly skewers the endless, tedious cliches of the genre and of Western society in general. He's sarcastic, sophomoric, filled with bad puns, and actually pretty darned funny. Maybe it's the British upbringing...There are different sub-series which follow the exploits of different main characters. Equal Rites is as good a place as any to start reading the Discworld books. It deals with the occasionally-unpleasant but totally-admirable witch, Granny Weatherwax, and the trials, tribulations and growing-pains of the first female born with wizardly powers instead of witchly ones...I also gobbled Lords and Ladies, a sort of twisted take on the plot of A Midsummer Night's Dream, in which the elves are not, uh, well, not nice...<br />Discworld has something for everyone, as long as you're a fan of some SF genre or other...Pratchett turns every clich&eacute; on its head, warps every hoary plot to his own ends. And I thank him for it.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R2BDZW6ETUL41W	0140291938	591724734	A Degree of Mastery: A Journey through Book Arts Apprenticeship	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Illuminations	Someone who knew that I was in the Interdisciplinary Book and Paper MFA program at Columbia College Chicago gave this memoir to me. It's a really nice read---especially since the bookbinding world is a small one, and everyone in it knows everyone else, as people travel around the country giving workshops. Always interesting to read about people who you've had as teachers. I found it very well written, an evocative and accurate depiction of an obscure art/craft/lifestyle choice, an illuminated window into a small, specialized world.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1M752YZES30VQ	0441003311	525403590	The True Game	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Truly Grand Adventure	This is actually a sequence of nine books, starting with King's Blood Four, Necromancer Nine and Wizard's Eleven. They've been out of print awhile, but there's an omnibus paperback of these three novels published a few years back, which may be easier to find, called simply The True Game. They start off with that semi-cliched pretext of living chessmen, of people with fantastical psi-powers waging battle on various scales with each other...But it quickly escalates into truly grand adventure. Peter is an orphan in a Schoolhouse, a supposedly-safe nursery for the children of noble Gamesmen and Gameswomen. They spend their days learning the dizzying list of Talents, the multitudinous combinations of gifts of seeing, moving, healing, shapchanging, etc. Predictably, but excitingly, Peter lands in adventures of all kinds as his own Talent becomes known...<br />The second trio of books deal with Mavin Manyshaped, Peter's long-lost mother. Incredibly unworldly settings---my favorite is the culture hidden away in a deep rift valley overshadowed by great trees and filled with roots and mists.<br />The third trio is narrated by Jinian Footseer, a Wise-Ard (read 'wizard') whose mission of world-healing reveals startling facts about the origin of the Talents and the Gamesmen and the world.<br />Tepper truly excels at world-building. I'm always glad to read anything with her name on it.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1G07TCXJTHBKZ	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A Sense of Place and People	I just finished this--one of those novels to which I've been meaning to get to for about five years now. The story of a man named Quoyle, forced by circumstance to return to his ancestral land, writing for a small local paper...Trying to fit back in, as no outsider would be able to, learning the language of boats, local cuisine (squidburgers?!?), superstition and journalism. I really, really liked this book. A distinct narrative voice, a complex plot-matrix (nothing so simple as a plot-line), and the whole thing well and truly anchored in a place. A concrete and vivid depiction of a Newfoundland seaside town. And the quotations beginning each chapter were nice, too, mostly from The Ashley Book of Knots, with directions for tying--and by chapter's end, I picked up each knot's metaphor. I'd read Annie Proulx's short story collection, Heartsongs, and enjoyed that, too. I don't know why it took me so long to get around to this really fine novel.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1IKM72DTSJ89D	0553582259	190832860	Repair to Her Grave (Home Repair Is Homicide)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wicked Good Reading	Repair to Her Grave is the fourth tight, enticing paperback mystery, set in Eastport, Maine, and starring home-restorer, Manhattan-escapee, and general busybody Jacopia Tiptree. Her colonial-era house is falling apart, and possibly haunted, her ex-husband has moved to Eastport just to annoy her, her teenage son has taken up scuba-diving and emulating his father's philadering ways, and now various New York friends want to show up for the summer, including one who may or may not be looking for the legendary treasure hidden years ago by the very man whose unresting spirit may be haunting Jake's house...<br />These are great reads, constantly deceptive, and I appreciate the way in which Graves doesn't sentimentalize the Down East socio-economic environment and the people of Eastport, but presents it as a modern place with modern problems, even if its history (and its residents' collective memory) does go back and back and back...She also manages some very funny moments (the ladies' literary society is meeting at her house, and the plaster is falling off the walls, and a friend thinks he's solved the problem by hanging an oversize velvet painting of Elvis over the damage) as well as making her characters vivid and memorable.<br />Just right for a day-on-the-beach read.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R3KMNJM26HVD25	0688155464	400028682	Charmed Life	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Skewed View	Diana Wynne Jones is one of my favorite writers, and I think I've read her entire ouevre. I really admire and enjoy the skewed way she mixes references to contemporary British society with whacked-out fantasy, bad puns and truly numinous mythic resonances...I've found her novels to be caught in the netherworld between Intermediate Fiction and YA Fiction, but I consider that a good place to be---it's like she writes the book that needs writing instead of worrying about its ultimate age-appropriate audience, and this may be why she's not more widely-known in the US... Too many folks insist on easy-to-categorize books for younger readers, and hers are anything but easily categorized.<br />Charmed Life was one of the first Jones novels I read, and it remains one of my favorites. In a Britain very close to our world's Britain, but with the rather important difference of magic-users being commonplace rather than legendary, a mild-mannered young boy named Cat is coping with his aggressively-talented sister, his orphan state, his left-handedness...and his process of self-discovery is a wild ride and a wonderful read. Highly-recommended.	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1OB6B8J4PP8PX	0380777606	802520423	The Silent Strength of Stones (A Chapel Hollow Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	By the Pricking of My Thumbs...	Exceptionally-intriguing fantasy novels by Nina Kiriki Hoffman, who's won all kinds of writing awards--Bram Stoker, World Fantasy. The Thread that Binds the Bones and The Silent Strength of Stones deal with an extended family of magic-users, and all the moral/social/familial dilemmas in which they find themselves, in relationships within the family and with outsiders. The magic is believable, all tied up with dead ancestors and unseeable spirits and ancient family history, and it varies from person to person, family to family, generation to generation, like any other inherited trait (instead of \\"Oh, she's got her grandmother's blue eyes!\\" it becomes \\"Oh, she's got her grandmother's second sight!\\"). Thread deals with the arrival of an outsider, unrelated to the Family in any way, whose inate powers are different from, and stronger in some ways, than those of the Family, and who falls in love all in an instant with a semi-despised daughter of the Family, and between the two of them, the slow steady decline into evil behavior begins to reverse. Stones deals with a long-lost unknown cousin of the Family, living on his own, unaware of his potential, who meets up with some of his relatives and comes of age.<br />They're good, really really good. Eerie, resonant, by-the-pricking-of-my-thumbs stuff...	2002-07-30
US	41064927	R1IYXV66T6085E	0151005613	645828812	Tales from Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 5)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Thank You for Taking Us Back	The Earthsea books are among my favorite novels of all time-- complex, heartfelt, true--and those who have read them (and re-read them, and re-re-read them) might notice a distinct change in &quot;flavor&quot; between the first three novels and Tehanu, which was written a number of years later. All I can say is &quot;thank goodness&quot; that the subtitle of Tehanu (&quot;The Last Book of Earthsea&quot;) proved to be untrue, because LeGuin had posed some questions for which I hungered for the answers: What is the truth of the relationship between dragonkind and humankind? What is the nature of woman's magic, and why does it seem to be ignored or denigrated? And in Tales from Earthsea, some answers begin to be examined. One of the longer tales, &quot;Dragonfly,&quot; is a beautifully-told and deeply-resonant story of one person's growth and self-discovery---and also a pivotal point in the larger narrative of Earthsea and the story of Ged the Archmage. It had me gasping at the end, trying to grasp at the trailing edge of a profound, inexpressible truth, just beyond my comprehension...<br />In a way, LeGuin has now completed two trilogies, each with its own focus. A Wizard of Earthsea, The Tombs of Atuan, and The Farthest Shore deal more with men, and on doing. Tehanu, Tales from Earthsea, and The Other Wind focus more on women, and knowing. In all the Earthsea books I find truths which ring like the deepest and most musical of bells, and something within me answers in glad harmony, even if I can't find the words to tell anyone why.	2002-07-29
US	41064927	RMIDKAVW97TZ1	0066212537	396332613	The Birthday of the World: And Other Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Worlds Never Before Seen	What a thrill, what a pleasure, to get two new LeGuin books in the same year! I don't know of that many SF authors who write so exceptionally well in both the novel and short story forms, but LeGuin certainly tops that short list. I'd read her previous collections---The Compass Rose, The Wind's Twelve Quarters, Malefrica Tales---so I knew that I'd be reading some fine work. But as it's been awhile since the last short story collection, I wondered what Ms. LeGuin had been up to, where was she coming from, what was her focus these days? And the answer to that is as complex and as simple as a leaf, as  a feather: humanity. Not in a species-chauvanistic sense, but looking deeper, into the very question of what makes us human. Spirituality, freedom, community responsibilities, societal struggle, emotional truth: this is a wonderful (and wonder-full) mix of stories, set on a wonderful mix of planets and cultures, each a small, deceptionally-simple window onto a world never before seen. This is not space- opera-type writing, not wars and plots and violence, but about PEOPLE, living, loving, breathing people, and it makes my mind leap upwards and outwards, wondering what possibilities exist, both in this tiny world of ours and in the great universe surrounding us---not that LeGuin makes me feel small and insignificant! Rather that she makes me want to become large enough to understand and to embarce it all...Really fine writing, highly-recommended.	2002-07-29
US	41064927	R1Y2409STJY22R	0553564366	165021414	Impossible Things	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant Storytelling	There are times and places when I prefer short stories to novels---in airports, on trains, at the beach---and this collection by one of my favorite SF novelists is perfect, a wide range of topics, well-written, each a small gem. Take it on vacation with you this year, and be prepared to talk about the stories with all the people who'll no doubt ask you &quot;What's so fascinating about that book?&quot;...	2002-07-25
US	41064927	R1VW536COJMW6A	0312119240	556709054	Gospel: A Novel	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Do-Si-Do through the Labyrinth	Come along on a wild, intellectual ride, careening from Chicago to Ireland to Italy to Greece to Israel to the Sudan to Ethiopia, following the reprobate religious scholar, Dr. Patrick O'Hanrahan, and the semi-hapless perpetual grad student, Lucy Dantan, as they try to track down a lost 1st-Century Gospel, written by one of the Twelve Disciples...and enjoy fine living, abject poverty, attempted murder, theft, intellectual rivalry, religious theorizing, and spiritual agonizing along the way, plus the periodical, parenthetical Voice of God commenting on the action...Wilton Barnhardt (author of Emma, Who Saved My Life, also a grand book) has written a meaty and challenging mystery, whose characters are unafraid of the Big Questions, a book far more accessible than The Name of the Rose but with that same attractive flavor of the mysteries of scholarship and ancient manuscripts. Conspiracies and counter-conspiracies are revealed, characters grow in self-knowledge, and the reader gets to follow along in amazed pleasure (or pleasurable amazement?) as the plot twists and turns to its unexpected, emotionally-gratifying conclusion. I'd recommend this novel to anyone who loves a good academic mystery---it's really well-written, the intrigue nevers stops.	2002-07-24
US	41064927	R3U2B87FMH8YL0	0865476365	762165590	Sea Room: An Island Life in the Hebrides	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Beautiful Book about a Beautiful Place	There are many people in the world who daydream about islands, who read about them, who travel to them, for whom islands possess a powerful, magnetic pull---Adam Nicolson, whose father gifted him with the Shiant Islands on his 21st birthday, has written a book for all of us who have wished time and again for our own special island...but before we all break into a chorus of &quot;Bali H'ai,&quot; let me warn you that Mr. Nicolson's islands, the Shiants, just off the coast of the Isle of Lewis in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland, are anything but tropical, and far from daydream or fiction. Sea Room, while written without any overt romantic sensibility, nevertheless tugs at the heart-strings in a profound way which I'm having trouble describing to people... It's deeply-grounded in the gritty details of life in the Isles: poverty, isolation, the harsh climate, the difficulty in trade, transportation, and health care, the underlying controversies over the very idea of ownership of land and wilderness. It's just as strong in describing the strengths of family and interconnected community ties, the deep roots of regional history and archaeology, the spine-shiver of local legends, the sense of &quot;otherness&quot; which in Celtic lands is as close as the other side of your shadow...<br />Perhaps the true beauty of this book lies in this paradox: in focusing so tightly on so small a subject, a place about which he cares so passionately, Nicolson touches something universal, creating something accessible (and engaging) to the wide, wide world. The language is lovely; the Islands are lovelier. And Nicolson's eldest son, who will be gifted with the Shiants in a year or two, is one lucky man.	2002-07-22
US	41064927	R1NASJOK3BSUTX	0441005195	548352838	Jovah's Angel (Samaria, Book 2)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	The Best Kind of SF Storytelling	Having read (and loved) Shinn's first book about the planet Samaria, I was thrilled to find a sequel. Back to a world where angels fly and their song fills the skies, many years after the exciting and romantic events of Archangel. In Jovah's Angel, the weather patterns on meteorologically-unstable Samaria are deteriorating, and the only voice that seems to be hearable by Jovah, the overseeing &quot;deity&quot; of the planet, is that of shy, scholarly Alleluia, now forced by circumstance to play the role of Archangel, taking the place of a brilliant, injured predecessor. And political brilliance is sorely needed on Samaria, as the different factions jockey for top position, as technological advances are made (and resisted), and the weather worsens (and worsens), as knowledge is lost (and regained). Shinn is, as always, excellent in her society-building---she postulates a set of circumstances and characters and then rings the changes, inviting us along to see what happens...and it's a wonderful trip, really an engaging and wonderful book. Not dissimilar to Anne McCaffrey's Pern books, in its basic premise, but rather stronger in its depiction of a social-religious- political cultural matrix. And her depictions of the glories of human song are amazing and original. Very well done!	2002-07-22
US	41064927	R89UJ4J5XAOFW	0743203232	615922706	The Nature of Water and Air	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Haunting, Lyrical, Poetic	One of those wonderful novels which falls somewhere between stark realism and edgy fantasy. It's told in the voice of Clodagh, a young Irish girl whose strange, wild-spirited tinker mother may or may not have been of the seal folk. The wealthy relatives of Clodagh's deceased father don't know what to do with the odd Agatha and her two daughters, and ship them off to a decaying family house in the east. Clodagh's twin sister, never strong, dies young, though her spirit seems to live on in the demi-twilight shadow-world of Clodagh's relationship with her mother, their rough but loving housekeeper, her teachers, the development of her remarkable musical gifts, her fascination with the travelling tinker folk, her seeking after something more, something better... Eerieness and otherness are never quite distant, never fully embodied, always hovering, never alighting---something of a metaphor for the way in which Clodagh engages life, I suppose. But when she does embrace the living, she embraces with a strong will and without looking back...<br />Really a lovely book. Unafraid of looking at the grit of modern Irish life, unashamed of the half-imagined touch of magic and myth. I enjoyed it very much.	2002-06-20
US	41064927	R1YPSBQOOH3VHF	0380979055	431563792	The Visitor	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Tepper's Unique Blend	Tepper is one of the best at blending hard science, socio-political questioning, and edgy almost-fantasy. In The Vistor, she's created a captivating melange of bioengineering, astrophysics, legend, and religion, a post-apocalyptic story both fascinating and frightening. She's adept at infusing mythic elements into her mysterious, twisty plot-lines. At first, the story of Dism&eacute; reads almost like the old, original Grimm version of Cinderella, with the stepmother and stepsister revealing their evil intentions ever so gradually, and I could never be quite sure if the spirits and visions which Dism&eacute; sometimes experienced  would prove to have a \\"scientific\\" or a \\"science fiction\\" explanation---is it magic? Or leftover, half-forgotten science? Or extra-terrestrial visitation? It didn't matter---as Dism&eacute; grew into her powers and her heritage, I was rooting for her all the way, absolutely engrossed by the story, and wondering how it could possibly resolve. I also find it fascinating how Tepper postulates this not-terribly-far-distant society from the trends and attitudes of the present day: self-serving, conservative politics and religious bigotry leading to a terrifying, restrictive future. Very well done!	2002-06-20
US	41064927	R32MG4XKWD77H7	0802138985	200879923	In the City of Shy Hunters	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Been waiting for this a long time	This is the long-awaited new novel by Tom Spanbauer, author of The Man Who Fell in Love with the Moon, a novel which got me into semi-deep trouble when I selected it for a book discussion group once. Spanbauer is just NOT an easy author. Not for suburban matrons, no, no, no... Definitely a  stylistic challenge (there are no quotation marks anywhere, so you have to parse it out in your head as you read) and the material and setting have certainly been used before (the joys and agonies of New York City at the beginning of the Age of AIDS), but there's a definite attraction meshed in with all its difficulties. The flashbacks to the narrator's strange, abusive childhood in Idaho are lovely and touching, and the characters are nothing if not memorable---performance artists, homeless people, wannabees and waiters. There are multitudinous references to Native American and Western American culture---Stranger in a Strange Land goes 80's, told in a late 90's style---which inform and propel the narrative and the characters' motivations.<br />It's not like anything all that stellar actually happens---Will is looking for a childhood friend who got a scholarship and moved to NYC years before---and his quest is filled with blind alleys and, of course, with self-discovery. There's a good deal of violence and queasy-making descriptions of edgy sexual encounters and acres and acres of humankind's-inhumanity-to-humankind, but there's also a warped beauty to the whole thing and moments of sincere love. Imagine Tales of the City directed by Sam Peckinpah in a benevolent mood...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1T0AKWDUKO0AX	0441008216	250670386	Heart of Gold	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Socio-Cultural SF	From Sharon Shinn, author of the intriguing Archangel and its sequels...Once again, Shinn postulates a society, sets up cultural histories, mores and racial divides, and sort of just sees what happens...In this case, the three distinct races of the land, the indigos, albinos and gulden, are locked in a complicated love-hate relationship based on commerce, prejudice and power, with most of the tension between the matriarchal blueskins against the patriarchal goldskins...There some aspects of a good romance novel about this book, with a rebel, socialist-minded daughter of a rich blueskin clan, brought up in gulden territory and now trying to find her place in the world...and a mild-mannered indigo man, raised to be inconsequential, discovering that his love of science and medicine is, indeed, of consequence...Elegant society balls, violent community sabotage, country estates, city ghettos, and the age-old story of male domination versus female domination... Shinn writes really well, getting better with every book. Her societies are so believable, her characters so distinct, both major and minor ones. I enjoy how the small agonies and ecstacies, triumphs and trials, of these people gradually reveal the shape of their world. Logical, loving, a nice read.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1ZWRMWRH2IIZ6	0312244061	77885409	Lady Catherine's Necklace	Books	5	6	8	N	N	More Aiken, Please!	A novel by Joan Aiken, one of my favorite writers. It's a continuation of Pride and Prejudice, and I know, I know, one oughtn't mess about with a classic, but...This one is just really good fun, and Aiken is talented far beyond the skills of other Austen emulators. The story centers around the stuffy, opinionated Lady Catherine de Bourgh, disappointed that her nephew Darcy has gone and married that Bennett woman...and what with carriage accidents, relatives visiting, inheritances, long-secreted scandals, lost heirs and plots within plots, we're in for a lively, pleasureable read. No, it's not Austen. It can't be Austen, and she doesn't claim so. It's a modern novel with Austen-esque sensibilities, and Aiken is really good at 'em. She takes minor characters and fleshes them out, fantasizing over what happened after the happily-ever-after endings of the original novels.<br />Aiken has written a shelf-ful of Regency romances, all of which are clever, entertaining, and vastly better than anything one finds in the romance paperback section these days. And her Austen homages are uniformly excellent--my favorite is probably Jane Fairfax, the Emma story told from a very different point of view.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1ERWQR6ZI7L0L	0439163005	457534055	The Giggler Treatment	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Delightfully-Rude	A delightfully-rude and very funny children's book by Roddy Doyle, which answers the age-old question of how and why people step in dog poo on the sidewalk...The Gigglers are small, furry creatures with a chameleon-like ability to hide, whose mission in life is to give the Treatment to grown-ups who have been mean to children. Mr. Mack is a likeable biscuit-taster who's been set up for the Treatment by mistake (yes, he sent his sons to bed without supper, but immediately apologized) and the rest of the plot is a breakneck romp to see if anyone can prevent Mr. Mack from stepping in the largest pile of poo in the world...With asides and soliloquies and ridiculous chapter titles and droll illustrations...<br />I could imagine selecting this for a read-aloud storytime, and the kids all shrieking with laughter while their parents stood by, horrified that anyone would say \\"poo\\" out loud. It's that kind of book. Funny for grown-ups, too, with adult-level bad puns (Rover, the family canine, swears \\"to Dog\\" at one point, knows perfectly-well how to use the toilet and is of course embarrassed to have to poo outside, and uses the computer to e-mail his girlfriend in Galway) and an amusing glossary of Irish terms (biscuit=cookie, plaister=Band-Aid, etc.). Deliciously-ridiculous. Sure to be banned somewhere. Excuse me, but I've got to go find a kid to read this one to...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R22CHGMS1N7WYS	1562827804	471035535	Whores of Lost Atlantis: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Truth and Nothing But the Truth	Charles Busch is the author and original star of Vampire Lesbians of Sodom, and this, his first novel, is basically the fictionalized account of the creation of that play. And it's not exaggerated at all, really, I mean it, really! Theatre people never exaggerate, right? It holds up--amusing for anyone who's ever worked in the theatre or has had anything to do with performance artists and/or drag queens. Memorable, outrageous but completely-believable characters (once you buy into the narrator's POV). Kind of an artistic thriller--will the show go on? Who's sleeping with whom? And why? Whose persona will Julian Young adopt next? Quite fun. I hesitate to label this as &quot;summer reading,&quot; but I'd bring it to the beach and let the passers-by wonder what I was laughing at...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R10127EAUOXD7I	0140280103	511155810	Cordelia Underwood: Or, The Marvelous Beginnings of the Moosepath League	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Delightful Homage	Van Reid has written an homage to turn-of-the-century Victorian novels with Cordelia Underwood, or the Marvellous Beginnings of the Moosepath League and its delightful sequels. It's a romance, a treasure hunt, a mystery, quirkily wriggling between genre descriptions...Wonderfully evocative of the novels of the period, but with a modern humor and sensibility. Wonderful descriptions of the small towns of Maine in 1898 as well. Having visited Maine for years, I can testify that it's a true picture of the scents and sights and sounds. Very well done, and I'm eager for the next book in the series to be published.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3OSRL7WCR1I89	0451203771	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Most Enjoyable	The story of the first year in the life of a fledgling catering company in Dublin. Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather, chums since culinary school, working through hardship and financial struggle to open and run their dream business...<br />While I'd hesitate to place anything by Maeve Binchey in the category of Great Literature, I really do enjoy reading her work, on a number of levels. One, though her characters always remind me of the Irish relatives on my dad's side of the family, they're NOT stock characters, not abstracts. The temperaments, secrets, reactions and dialogue all seem to arise from individuals, not types. The minor characters are as complex as the major ones. And two, her stories are set in modern Ireland, not some romantic never-land Americanized vision of Ireland (she has a great time poking fun at the shamrock-and-shillelegh mindset, when one of the heroine's emigrant sisters is returning from Chicago to be married in Dublin, and bringing a horde of Polish in-laws who expect corned beef and cabbage and step-dancing---this ain't The Quiet Man, folks). And, all right, so I'll give it to my mom to read, now that I've finished it. It's not just a &quot;mom&quot; novel, though--or if it is, then it's at the top of that classification.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3NJ7224O6WN2T	0312868332	351277423	The Tooth Fairy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pleasantly Unpleasant	An award-winning, pleasantly-freaky, unsettling novel by British writer Graham Joyce. Sam stashes a tooth under his pillow, as millions before him have done, and wakes to find the Tooth Fairy in his room. Not the pixie-dust version, but an oddly-dressed, sexually-ambiguous and aggressive \\"other,\\" who interfers/intervenes in Sam's life from then on. Brilliant, disturbing, modern-with-mythic overtones, a coming of age story in 60's/70's small-town Britain, urban sprawl, disaffected youth, violence, sex, drugs and all. If you like the Charles DeLint/Emma Bull/Will Shetterly sort of urban fantasy, this one will blow you away; it's so much better, so much richer, more frightening and more full of wonder. Not much is explained, but so much is experienced...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1SVTBDGTDGQTO	0151006849	645828812	The Other Wind (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 6)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Being, not Doing	The Other Wind takes place about 15 years after the end of Tehanu, and it's all about dragons, and life, and love, and power, and death, and the choices people make (there's a lovely line about Ged preparing all his life to do, finally, what he had no other choice but to do). This story resonates with me. It doesn't have the high wizardly (i.e. male) adventure feel of the first three books, but is rather more like the viewpoint of Tehanu, concerned with being, not doing. I'd been hoping for a bit more about one of the themes of last spring's Tales from Earthsea: art-wizardry practiced by men at the expense of something lost/stolen/denied to women of power. That theme is here, but never stated overtly. But four of the main characters are women of great power, whether political, wizardly or dragonesque, and the men defer to them....<br />The writing is beautiful. The philosophy is admirable. This is one I'll re-read gladly and save forever...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1FZKHT8R5KYJ5	0618056017	47306115	Straw Into Gold	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Prices We Pay	An intriguing re-mix of the Rumpelstiltskin story, the story of what might have happened had the Queen not guessed R.'s name correctly...and it also solves the mystery of why R. would have wanted that baby, anyway...and no, it's nothing to do with cannibalism or pederasty, thank you very much.<br />It's set in a fantasy-Europe milieu with somewhat-complex politics and competing power factions---the king isn't a bad guy, just weak when faced of the leader of the twelve Great Lords, who detests the beautiful peasant woman whom the king has married and elevated to royalty. The plot is filled with twists and relevations, a driving sense of urgency, a good deal of humor, and some eerily-casual magical encounters. The story is engagingly told in the first person by Tousle, a young boy who's been raised by the small, gnomish gentlemen he's always called Da---but don't assume that you know how this story is going to turn out. Even the happiest ending can have a bittersweet edge.<br />There've been several Rumpelstiltskin-based books in the last few years---Jo Napoli's Spinners is very good, very sad, and Vivian Vande Velde's short story collection, The Rumpelstiltskin Problem, is revisionist retelling at its funniest and finest. Straw in Gold more than holds its own among them. Great fun reading for 8-to-12 year olds, and for adults who still love fairy tales.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R2NRP5HBGCXW1C	0060929723	118539684	Spiderweb: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	In the Web	Another fascinating novel from the award-winning Penelope Lively.<br />Stella is a 65-year-old social anthropologist, who specialized in studying lineage and kinship groups all over the world. She's now retired, and, on the basis of a long-past visit and the recommendation of friends, has bought a cottage in a small village in Devon, in the west of Britain. Almost without realizing it, she begins absorbing the complex inter-personal relationships of the area--who's married to whom, which items are bought and where they're bought, who's a native, who's a weekender, who's retired...She fixes up her cottage, she acquires a dog, she takes long walks, she visits with friends, she writes a long-delayed article on the role of gender in her chosen field---and she remembers. Much of the action of the book takes place in the past, from university days through her professional career and two major love-affairs. The past informs the present in ways which are both commentary and explanation, as well as being told in beautiful language. Nicely-done. A quick read, but certainly not fluff.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3MTRUP5Q9KWYP	0762853662	799186206	Mockingbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Strangely Unfamiliar	A magical-realism-Southern-family-saga, with voodoo thrown in, thought it's never called voodoo, and isn't the popular image of voodoo...and many, many intriguing twists. Set in Houston, it's the story of the daughters of Elena, recently deceased, who could foresee the future, cast small spells, even raise the dead, but mostly--terrifyingly--is the host to six Riders, small gods, the eerie fetishes of which she keeps in a chifferobe in the living room. When she is being Ridden, then it's these small gods' turns to walk around, change lives, give advice or orders which no one would think opf disobeying...And after she dies, it's the responsibility/curse of her elder daughter, a practical, plain, money-making actuary, to take over...<br /><br />Really well done. Strange and intriguing without being mad-slasher-esque.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1YCVHJE75EBL0	0670879835	54684085	Orbiting the Giant Hairball: A Corporate Fool's Guide to Surviving with Grace	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Funny and Fearless	Words of wisdom from a former executive with Hallmark Cards. Creative people in corporate America must read this book...Subtitled &quot;A Corporate Fool's Guide to Surviving with Grace,&quot; it's the author's stories of subverting the conglomerate structure/stricture of a very large company's modus operandi. Ways to release real creativity, not the corporate-mandated sort...And filled with delightful sketches and offbeat typesettings. A much-more-scholarly version of all those snarky self-help books, and a good companion to works of writers like Howard Gardiner, Pat Allen and Robert Sternberg. Funny and fearless.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1ISI6WVZDIOUV	061812733X	374823093	Stern Men	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Solid, Engrossing, Excellent	A really fine new novel which I picked up after reading a favorable review in the NYT---and I've enjoyed the read. It's the story of an island off the coast of Maine (a fictionalized Vinalhaven, I think), mostly about the coming-of-age of Ruth Thomas, tenously-descended from the granite-quarry-owning rich family which once ran the island. It reminds me somewhat of the Bennett's Island novels by Elisabeth Ogilvie, but Stern Men has a much more modern setting and feeling. We certainly hear enough about the history of the island, its rivalry with its neighbors, and the ongoing &quot;lobster wars&quot; of its fishermen, but the characters are so intriguing and eccentric, the storytelling so solid, that it certainly never feels like an historical novel--nor does it feel like a romanticizing of a &quot;vanishing way of life&quot; and all that bushwah. These folks are grittily involved in making a buck and getting on with their lives.<br />I liked it as well as The Beans of Egypt, Maine or The Funeral Makers or Strong for Potatoes, all fine novels dealing with middle-to-lower-class Maine characters. A welcome addition to the genre.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R24GRL2EXJNS12	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Twining of Place and People	A novel constructed out of three intertwining stories, set in the same no-longer-quite pristine-but-still-lovely Appalachian valley---close to each other in proximity and eventually spiralling inward in theme, as well. The &quot;Predators&quot; thread deals with an attractive, solitary, 40-something female forest ranger, who understands and cherishes the mountainside environment which she's safeguarding, and who's excited that a coyote clan may be moving into the territory. The &quot;Chestnuts&quot; thread centers around a stubborn, opinionated elderly resident of the valley, who's livelong dream is to breed a blight-resitant variety of the American chestnut, and who's constantly thwarted in his day-to-day life by his neighbor, a woman who believes passionately (and profitably) in organic farming. The &quot;Moth Love&quot; strand takes its metaphor from the pheromones used by butterflies and moths to find their mates, and it's the story of an &quot;outsider&quot; to the valley, a well-educated female entymologist who marries the son of an old farming family, and has to make a place for herself among her relatives and neighbors.<br />Three strong-willed main characters, who don't really know each other, but who in fact are tied together with subtle threads. Lovely, intriguing metaphors throughout the novel of environmental interdependency, but Kingsolver never descends to a preachy tone, just lets her characters talk. A very nice novel, from one of my very favorite authors.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R1EGISZKCLWHLX	0807282421	890470077	King of Shadows	Books	5	2	2	N	N	And as I am an honest Puck...	From Susan Cooper, award-winning author of The Dark is Rising sequence. This one has a young orphaned American boy, Nat Field, playing Puck in a troupe of boy actors chosen to perform A Midsummer Night's Dream at the replica of the Globe Theatre...and while rehearsing in London, falls back in time to Shakespeare's day, to perform the same part in the original Globe. At the same time, his 16th century double falls forward to present day London, and seems to be suffering from the bubonic plague. Pretty darned sophisticated for a middle school reading level. Engagingly-told in the first person by Nat, we get to hear about the troupe rivalries (both present and past), the excitement and tedium of rehearsals, the incredible high of a performance...and also the sorrows of remembering his father's death, the pleasure of working with Master Shakespeare, and a never-preachy admission of the joy of being a performing artist. Excellent for anyone, kid or grown-up, who's trodden the boards...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R2WCUEKTITO9UB	0618033777	857055178	Goose Chase	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Art of Retelling	Lots of writers are re-telling classic fairy tales these days, but few of them produce novels as delightful as Kindl's newest. Part of this is because of the truly-engaging voice of our heroine (saucy, funny, short-tempered, profound by turns---in short, a typical teenager, who just happens to live in a medieval kingdom) and part is because of the roller-coaster twists and turns of the plot, which actually takes very little from the old fairy tale \\"The Goose Girl.\\" This story is a web of enchantments, betrayals, politics, manners, luck, loss, and courage, and though it derives many plot-elements from many different classic tales, the result is new, exciting, meaningful, and honestly humorous.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3RTEJ31A8WR1Y	0385720475	753673336	The Cure for Death by Lightning	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magical Realism, Translated/Transported North	A very interesting first novel by Gail Anderson-Dargatz, just out in quality paperback. It's the story of 15-year-old Beth Weeks, daughter of a farming family in western Canada in the early years of WWII. Along with the commonplace grittiness of their farm life (the endless chores, the birth and death of livestock, the loneliness), there's also the oddities of small-town life, with its eccentrics, tragedies, property feuds, marriages, funerals, and festivals...and given the fact that Beth's dominating, temperamental father seems to be suffering from a combination of depression and psychosis, the Weeks family's popularity is not too high in town just now. There's also a strong undercurrent of Native American spirituality and mythology running through the novel---at times it's the only explanation for an event, unrational as that might sound. One might almost think of this as a Canadian version of a Latin American \\"magical realism\\" novel: translate tropic to temperate, jungle to prairie, Spanish heritage to British...The title originates with the scrapbook kept by Beth's mother, a hodgepodge of recipes, Christmas cards, household and family lore, observations, and agonies, a sort of collaged diary of this woman's private life.<br />I enjoy novels told in first-person narration, if the narrator's voice is an interesting one---and Beth is one of the more interesting voices I've come across lately.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R30J9BABTR4HRT	0064400441	491739181	From Anna	Books	5	6	7	N	N	For Children, for Grown-Ups	A wonderful young person's novel by Jean Little, about a family emigrating from pre-Nazi Germany and moving to Canada. The plot involves the efforts of the youngest child, Anna, whose poor vision and clumsiness has made her something of an outcast, to make a place for herself in her new home and new school. A very important part of the story is Anna's struggle to make a special Christmas present. Not just a Christmas story as such, as the plot takes place over the span of half a year or so, but a really nice evocation of Old-World holiday traditions, a Canadian town in the last years of the Depression, and a gimlet-eyed accuracy in describing family dynamics...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3O8ZX4DA3IYHI	0441008658	777040121	Spindle's End	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magical Indeed	What a lovely book! Another of McKinley's variations on a traditional fairy tale theme, this one a very different Sleeping Beauty story...The reaction to the archetypical curse by the archetypical bad fairy is to send the infant Briar-Rose away to a remote village, hidden away to be raised as ordinary Rosie...But what makes this novel so wodnerful, so readable, is the inherent-ness (is that a word?) of the magic in the kingdom--that fairies are ubiquitous, even necessary, might be your next-door neighbor, certainly a bit \\"other\\" but not ostracized. Maybe the \\"best\\" families don't have magic in their bloodline, but ya just gotta have fairies around, since magic seeps and simmers everywhere in the land, manifesting as dust on the windowsills and scales on the teapots, talking beasts and serio-comic hauntings. Light-hearted, funny, and then suddenly veering, deepening into neck-hair-raising, myth-tinged eerie-ness. Twists and turns, wonderment wherever you look...Fifteen pages from the end of the book, I still had no clear idea how the story was going to end. Nice...	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R3QPH46RO5BZ51	0060012331	665449973	The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Warping the Weave	A new Discworld novel (actually probably a novella, by length, but it's bound in cloth with a price to match) by Terry Pratchett, this one skewering the tale of the Pied Piper, with some deep digs at Beatrix Potter... Warped, whacked out, very funny, his usual satirical twist on British customs and culture. So far Pratchett, though ringing the changes on quite a successful formula, has not really been repeating himself and certainly never boring anybody...This novel traces the tale of a cat named Maurice and his troop of rats, all of whom lived a bit too close to the wizardly garbage pile at Unseen University and thus were exposed to magical leakage and somehow developed intelligence. Maurice, being the cat that he is, hooks up with a stupid-looking kid who plays the flute, and they develop a lucrative scam infesting towns and being paid to rid the places of vermin...at which point the troop moves off to the next town. But these rats have plans of their own...and when they meet the story-spinning granddaughter of the famous Grim Sisters, the whole thing gets very messy.<br />Not a cute little talking animal story. Not really for children. Not a bad read, not at all.	2002-06-19
US	41064927	R2NGSOUPRLPG79	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	45	46	N	N	A Terrible Beauty	A good book. Maybe even a great book. Joycean in quality, even in language, a little, but never inaccessible, never private, and always gorgeously poetic...<br />It's a simple tale about a difficult time: the story of the friendship and love between two Irish boys, Jim and Doyler (one poor, the other poorer) in the years leading up to the Easter Rising. The period is brilliantly evoked: the wealth (faux or true) of the gentry contrasted with the abject poverty of so many others, the incredible sociopolitical power wielded by the Roman Catholic Church, the overwhelming depressive feeling of being colonized by the British as well as the fears of those who've thrived (or at least endured) during the British regime, the stirrings of nationalism, the rationalization of violence, the events of the Rising itself. One could make a case for the core theme of this novel to be that of rebellion---that of the country echoing that of the boys, their mentor, their families---with all the plotting, secrets, fear, and frustration that such rebellion entails.<br />It's a heartbreaking book. It doesn't take a romantic view of Ireland, though there are romantics a-plenty among the cast of characters. It can be painful to see someone's idealism break like a wave against the rock of an unjust law, a social paradigm, an historical event. And it's also wonderful to experience someone pulling a moral, true action from beneath a facade of politesse or a lifelong habit of obedience.<br />I cried at the end. The plot crescendoes like a great cresting wave of events, emotion, loss, and love, and I felt it in my gut. Maybe it had a little more resonance for me because my dad had cousins who died in the Rising, but this is a book for anyone to read who likes a character-driven story that is beautifully told. Yes, there's more than a little violence, and there's distressful images of poverty, and there's thuggishness, and tragedy, and sex, but also heroism, idealism, and love, and it all adds up to what Yeats called \\"a terrible beauty.\\"<br />It ain't pretty, but it is beautiful. Perilously so. Read it and weep.to what Yeats called \\"a terrible beauty.\\" <br />It ain't pretty, but it is beautiful. Perilously so. Read it and weep.	2002-05-31
US	41064927	R127ZAXT0RF4PB	006093090X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Intricate Spirals	A hard book to categorize--part mystery, part love-story, part semi-demi-memoir...Gabriel Noone is a media personality (like Maupin) from a good Southern family (like Maupin) who has mined his personal life shamelessly for material (like Maupin), but while everything in this novel may have a grain of truth, at the same time none of it is true, because all of it has been touched with artifice, which is what Maupin (and Noone) are brilliant at. So the intricate spiralling revelations of the plot (is Gabriel's partner really leaving him? When will we get to meet the prepubescent author of a disturbing new book which Gabriel has been asked to blurb?) are never quite what we expect. We are manipulated by the storyteller into believing, and then restructuring our beliefs, and it's a wonderful ride...Sometimes sad, frequently comic, with cameo appearances by minor characters from his other books, I admire this novel greatly. Direct-but-unpreachy commentary on the nature of love and commitment and creativity, and some memorable metaphors...Great characters, evocative descriptions (I recognize those streets in San Francisco, don't I? I've met some of the people in the Castro, haven't I? I've driven that highway in Wisconsin, right?) and a twisty, tricky plot which keeps the pages turning.<br />Quite good, engrossing and engaging. I personally enjoy novels told in the first person, if that narrator is interesting and has a unique voice. Gabriel Noone/Armistead Maupin is certainly that narrator.	2001-12-27
