US	41083439	RJFDTHFGWZE04	0140182829	623789051	Le Grand Meaulnes (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Magical Classic in a Fine Translation (Penguin Edition)	This classic story is famous for its addictive eerie atmosphere -it deals with the protaganist stumbling upon, by chance, of a magical castle in the midst of a wild forest, and what happens there, and the impossible attempt to find it again.  The story should really not be spoiled.  But if the idea intrigues you, check this one out.  Other books somewhat like it, in the sense of having a magical atmosphere that draws you in, include Bulgakov's the Master and Margarita and Kenneth Grahame's The Wind in the Willows.<br />This classic translation by Briton Frank Davison has been around in Penguins for many years, and has been read by thousands of readers who fell in love with the story because of its fine literary English.  The reviewer below who complains it is old and not &quot;American&quot; enough in its slang has missed this point.  The best translations don't need to be changed, even if the TV-computer games generation can't handle it.  For example, the Master and Margarita, beautifully translated by Mirra Ginsburg in the Grove Press edition, was later ruined by another translation purposely wrought into modern American slangy English.  But both the Grand Meaulnes and Master need the good Queen's English which their grand tales demand.  Read the classic Penguin translation here and see why.	2003-11-10
US	41083439	R3UHUD80IVAOHD	0395944171	543646566	Snobbery: The American Version	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Some jokes, but rather unexpectedly insecure at times	I didn't think this book had the self-assurance or tolerance of Jasper Griffin's *Snobs*, nor the built-in crud detector found in Paul Fussell's books *Class* and *BAD*, or in the writings of Kingsley Amis, Dawn Powell, Gore Vidal, the poems of Gavin Ewart.  To take one example, in Epstein's book writer Gore Vidal is a snob because he prefers living in Europe rather than the US of America, and is accussed of social climbing because of the people he consorts with.  But social climbing is a middle class phenomenon, and Vidal was born into a Washington power family, as Louis Auchincloss was born into a New York one, consequently they consort with the kind of people they grew up with.  The reader does not have to belong to any other class but the middle to find this kind of envy and insecurity on Epstein's part spoiling the better parts of the book: basically you're not a snob if you come from a small town or tedious suburb and aspire to no more than a university teaching post or perhaps a move to the Big Apple (for an equally humble job), your creativity ceasing once you've attained those goals.  You're not a snob if you pursue the mundane, you ARE a snob if you've got real talent.  Who can blame Gore Vidal for wanting to live in Europe rather than Epstein's home town dump of Chicago?  But then Vidal can get to Europe, and has employed his writing talents to laugh and mock at cant, puffed-uppedness and the peculiar insecurities of those who live off art without producing it.  Nevertheless a few good laughs, especially when Epstein talks about people like himself.	2003-04-22
US	41083439	R19FL82TGW6DWN	0679749047	582714606	The Counterlife	Books	5	11	13	N	N	"An Australia for Jews" - a sad core amidst fine satire	This is a funny, satirical literary novel about the clownish mid-life crisis of a typical suburban Jewish New Jersey dentist - yes, it's Roth country! But at it's heart, in the Israel section of the book, the farce suddenly dies away: I found the sad, powerful tale of the character \\"Shuki\\" unexpectedly moving: Shuki, one of the original European settlers of Israel, who enthusiastically built Israel and fought in the front line through all the troubles, is now an exhausted, world-weary man. He sees all the talented Jews of the world settling in places like the USA, Canada, Britain and France, whereas forty years of unrelenting war have turned Israel (he says) into \\"an Australia for Jews,\\" a place where the first rate don't emigrate to anymore, only the most hopeless come now, those without the skills or talent to get them into the First World, who must experience a day to day tension so profound it's like a recreation of the pogroms of Russia.  Roth's stunning departure from the farcical aspects of his story and Shuki's blunt assessments hit the reader like a succession of boxer's blows, the reader lulled previously by all the fine satire and good story telling.  Luckily, the farce returns quickly, and we're off for more crazy adventures with the suburban New Jersey dentist and his writer brother, but this is a unexpectedly a very powerful book, and though it came out a few years ago it is, of course, especially moving right now in these troubled times.<br />Don't miss Roth's other novels if you like this one.  I also recommend Dawn Powell's *The Golden Spur*, Simon Raven's *Alms For Oblivion* series, Sandor Marai's *Embers*, the poetry of Philip Larkin and Paul Theroux's *Kowloon Tong*. And all of Shakespeare, Dickens and Austen.	2003-04-05
US	41083439	R1G756WWN7YFFD	1842122126	777308511	Nothing For Tears	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Germany sows the wind ... and reaps the whirlwind	Like the reader from Brisbane, I found this an interesting yet perplexing book. For details of what it was like to live in a German city and the German countryside under Allied bombings and occupation, this book is fine. But when it comes to being honest about what Germany did to earn the terrible retribution the Allies inflicted upon Germany, the author is ludicrously and eventually, for me, irritatingly silent. Horstmann's Germany is too often just some innocent victim, wondering why all these mean countries (the Allies) were bombing her.  Also, the Russians throughoutare refferred to as \\"Asiatic\\", \\"non-European', \\"oriental\\" (indeed she calls them everything but out-and-out \\"non-Aryan\\"!). The author's tone and attitude throughout the book simply kept reminding me it was Germany, after all, that had started the war, invaded Poland, invaded Russia, and that it was ordinary Poles, Russians, etc., who had to suffer under Germany's maniacal racism and barbarism of the day.<br />The class-hatred of the author's Prussian Aristocratic family towards the \\"low-born\\" Hitler and other Nazis is interesting, but ultimately makes the Prussian high-born look all more feeble for not standing up to him firmly and decisively  - if he was such a dumb yob, why did he easily subdue them?  Were they on his side through most of the war, until he started to lose? I wondered how much of Horstmann's attitude in this book developed after Germany's defeat, whether she really thought like this during Hitler's days of triumph.<br />Needless to say, the Jews hardly rate a mention, while the Allied bombings of German cities are deplored as crimes without even a footnote admitting Germany's role in inducing such a response. A lot of detail is given on the horrible, \\"Old Testament-style wrath\\" that descended upon the Germans when the Russians arrived, but never does the author admit Germany's own initial barbarism inside occupied Russia following its invasion, nor does she dare to contemplate whether the effects of her country's \\"mobile killing units\\" possibly influenced the ordinary Russian soldier's attitude towards Germany - effects which the Russian soldiers would have seen as they pushed the German army back from Stalingrad across those areas where German savagery had been most intense. The author even refers to Polish-Russian slave laborers she sees inside Germany as simply \\"workers.\\" <br />I came to this book after reading William Shirer's *the Rise and Fall of the Third Reich,* Alan Bullock's *Hitler: A Study in Tyranny,* and Alexander Dallin's *German Rule in Russia*. All three sowed doubt in my mind (to put it mildly) as to post-war German protestations that it had never supported Hitler. Therefore, one of the best reasons to read this book (along with others of its genre, like Bielenberg's *The Past Is Myself* and Marie Vassilitchkov's *Berlin Diaries*) is to become aware how difficult it is for Germans of that era to \\"come clean\\" about German atrocities (*Berlin Diaries* was, I thought, the closest to an honest response, with some admitting of the truth, less of the \\"poor little Nazi Germany\\" attitude expressed too often in Horstmann.)<br /> I thought this a good book for a description of how Germany reaped the whirlwind; while Shirer, Bullock, Dallin, etc., gave me what was left out - how Germany sowed the wind in the first place.	2003-03-05
US	41083439	RAZ2024OY5L54	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Interesting Comment On Our Ignorance of History	A detailed and accurate description of the horrendous crimes of Stalin is to be found here in Martin Amis's book, dressed up around a a far more dubious proposition - that the West somehow did not know or would not listen to stories about Stalin's terror, and still hasn't processed it.  In fact many (and the best) Western historians and politicians have known about these crimes from the begining.  As a Soviet Studies student in the 80s and 90s I find it odd to hear it suggested otherwise - if anything, awareness among Kremlinologists of the immensity of Stalin's crimes made them too wary of glasnost and the fall of communism - many believed it to be a trick of the USSR to lure the West into a false sense of security before the Eastern Bloc expanded again - (following the \\"expansion and coexistence\\" theories of Harvard's Adam Ulam).  What novelist Amis's book really is, is an attempt to soothe the vast majority of people out there who knew and know no history at all - not from any love of communism (!) but simply because they didn't feel knowing ANY history was important (History remains the least favorite subject, at least in American schools).  By saying the West would not pay attention to Solzhenitsyn - in fact everyone who cared did - quite a few people, too - lets off the hook those individuals who thought it irrelevant to know any history - their personal responsibility for remaining ignorant is ignored, papered over.  Amis's championing of his father's old friend Robert Conquest can be nothing more than an act of filial piety - Conquest was considered a joke in the Soviet Studies profession for his continually claiming he was the only one who had written about the crimes of Stalin, when, in fact, many (actual) historians had done so - E. H. Carr, Isaac Deutscher, Leonard Schapiro, to name a few - his false denigrating of his collegues and his childish self-aggrandizement understandably made professionals contemptuous.  Conquest was also dismissed due to his own advanced political extremism which didn't differ that much from Stalin's in intensity - only (ironically) in ability (most Sovietologists dislike the USSR precisely because its political extremism led to so many crimes).  Amis's clouting of the mostly unimportant and irrelevant New Left seems like hitting a butterfly with a sledgehammer - reminding me of the way conservatives denounced the anemic American Communist Party in the 50s when it was of no political significance whatsoever.  If anything, the mistake of USSR watchers' was taking the Soviets too seriously at the end - to the point that many \\"experts\\" were caught with their pants down when the USSR collapsed, saying to the last moment it wouldn't.  By concentrating on the New Left, Amis has created a false impression that our understanding of Russia's true nature was somehow the New Left's to decide - ludicrous!  I'd like to think the average citizen who has been up till now - in a post 9/11 world - ignorant of history, will be big enough to admit his or her own need to redress the balance by reading more books - I think most responsible readers will, rather than hide behind blaming irrelevant factors.  A good way to learn about the USSR and the crimes of Stalin is through the books of historians like E. H. Carr, Leonard Schapiro and a host of others.	2002-08-28
US	41083439	R1PVW4RCAGBF5X	0060194146	797079115	The Catsitters: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fine Literary Satire of Provincials in  Modern New York	Funny send up of that Classic American Journey from the small town or boring suburb to the Big Apple.  Wolcott, with a clear eye and much dry, subtle humor, deals with the perennial provincial who wants To Make It Big In New York - make it big in work, in love, in life-style, but who ends up being just one of the many &quot;real&quot; New Yorkers whose only accomplishment is, alas,  their initial move to New York.  This book reminded me of the delightful novels of Dawn Powell, another clear-eyed critic of the New York scene whose wit, urbanity and Greek/Roman classical neutrality allows her readers to see behind the pipe-dreams and fantasies with which &quot;new&quot; New Yorkers indulge themselves.  This book's only possible problem is it will not encourage the day-dreams of the types of persons it so well describes.  But if you're the kind of reader who likes when, say, The Fool in *King Lear* punctures the pomposities and self-delusions of the King using wit and good sense, then you'll  like *The Catsitters*.  Woolcott is like a literary jester poking fun at the delusions of certain middle class folk desperate to make it in New York but sadly, without that little bit of required talent.  A wonderful tale of modern New York and the American Dream, I sometimes wondered if the author didn't have some British blood in him, so much did he remind me of the attitudes of Evelyn Waugh and Kingsley Amis, for example. But then Edmund Wilson and H. L. Mencken wrote like this, too.  Superb.	2002-08-28
US	41083439	RZPCL2AWQQES5	0140189351	623648507	Dangling Man (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;The Right to be Answered!&quot; - Fine Novel of Alienation	Bellow's first novel is a finely written, tightly constructed little gem of American alienation.  The main character has received his call-up papers for WW II, and is now waiting in a hotel room - dangling - as the weeks go by and he is still not called up.  He begins to think about himself and those around him in a new light - being out of circulation, in enforced idleness, causing him to think about himself and others really for the first time.  His detachment grows and he becomes stranger and stranger - or is it the others, his family, friends, work mates, passers by, who are getting stranger.  One day in a cafeteria he goes really bonkers upon seeing an old political acquaintence from his youthful days in a radical party, who is now ignoring him.  This leads to an explosive, almost surreal scene in which the dangling man is screaming about his &quot;right to be answered&quot; - which of course is a salesman's motto, the cold-caller's motto, while other people's supreme right is, of course, the right to personal privacy.  This interesting question, that goes to the heart of what we are as Americans, is only one of the many interesting ideas thrown up by the young Bellow in this short book.  If you like *Seize the Day,* you'll probably like this one, too.  Bellow's shorter novels (I include *The Victim* in here, too) are among the best examples of American alienation ever written.	2002-08-22
US	41083439	R16SHL84UW208X	0393309436	941407611	The Long Day Wanes: A Malayan Trilogy (The Norton Library)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Fine Literary Satire About Ambiguous Future of Asia	I found this an absorbing, literary read, and like the other reviewers I first read this while living out East (in the 90s - Hong Kong &amp; S'pore).  I am amazed on re-reading it how many of the actions and attitudes of the characters - British, Malay, Indian, Chinese, American - along with so many of the secondary details, were still relevant and recognizable among Easterners and Western expats of today.  The main story makes fine reading, too.  In fine language, Anthony Burgess (who was a colonial civil servant in Malaya and spoke Malay) describes the last few years of British rule and the troubled handover to independance. There is a lot of enjoyable detail about life in the Malay peninsula at the time - many good scenes and vignettes, but what comes across clearly by the end is the uneasiness and ambiguity felt by Burgess about the future of independant Malaya and Singapore - he is worried about the hatred of the various ethnic communities for each other and the slim hold of British law, also the lack of interest among educated locals (besides the ones with marketable skills and talents who emigrated to new lives and identities in the First World) for anything other than technological development.  Many of these concerns have sadly been born out - the split between Malaysia and Singapore, the second class status of the Malays in S'pore, of the Chinese in Malaysia, of the Indians in both places, the soulessness of the modern nightlife of KL and S'pore.  Law in Malaysia is today a farce - witnewess the treatment of the politician Anwar, once Prime Minister Mahathir's 2nd-in-command, put in the dock seemingly forever for what was known in Singapore as &quot;the endless buggery trial&quot;; and Singapore under Harry Lee Kuan Yew has an even worse legal system (read Christopher Lingle's account, *Singapore's Authoritarin Capitalism*, or Francis Seow's, *A Dissident in Lee Kuan Yew's Prisons*).  But this is a vivid, funny and moving novel above all - perhaps especially so if you have any connection with that part of the world, but of course it works brilliantly also if you're just looking for a good, cracking read.  The thing I remember thinking after reading this was how sad it is that so many talented Malaysians and Singaporeans emigrate to other countries to get away from the sad realities at home.   Burgess forsaw some of this, as well as much more.  This is a classic about Malaya/Singapore the same way Paul Theroux's *Kowloon Tong* so accurately describes Hong Kong at the end (for which it was given the honor of being banned by China).  Time for a Tiger!	2002-08-18
US	41083439	R1RBZ54XDF17JF	0312978375	204354638	Hong Kong (A Jake Grafton Novel)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Fun, But There Are Far Better Novels of Hong Kong To Read	This is a fun &quot;airport novel&quot;, but when I lived in Hong Kong in the 90s there were several novels and nonfiction books available that gave me a much better understanding of Hong Kong, and tallied with the Hong Kong I was actually experiencing.  Three fine literary novels about Hong Kong are *Kowloon Tong* by Paul Theroux, set at the Handover and dealing with British, Chinese and Americans; it effectively evokes the sleazy underbelly of the city - I felt I met or encountered many of the types described here during my 2 &amp; 1/2 years living there.  The story line is something like Graham Greene with a dash of Saul Bellow and Gore Vidal - this novel was banned in Mainland China for being a little too accurate.  Timothy Mo's *The Monkey King* is about an eccentric Hong Kong Chinese family and gives a a whole host of recognizable Hong Kong attitudes - you will see and meet many of the types described in this book if you're domiciled there - it is also blisteringly funny.  Somerset Maugham's *The Painted Veil* caused writs to be served in Hong Kong when it was first published in the 1920s - yet the mannerisms of some of the British characters in this book were still discernible in those of the Western community in the 1990s Hong Kong - especially the more foppish or boorish ones.<br />Jan Morris's non-fiction *Hong Kong* gives an extremely absorbing account of the place - especially detailed on the tragic, sad history of the millions of Chinese refugees who fled China in the 1950s to the 70s to the safety of British rule in Hong Kong - these are the people who make up Hong Kong today.  Great material on the British, too.  Finally, Bo Yang's *The Ugly Chinaman* gives a lot of background on the unpleasant side of Hong Kong - the rude-pushy crowds, the unpleasant public behaviour, the shouting and spitting, those infamous Kowloon girlie bars the size of aircraft hangers - he traces it to the long history of oppression and inept rule by generations of Chinese leaders who kept the culture going but at the lowest common denominator for centuries - he calls the process &quot;the putrid vat of soy sauce paste&quot; and is at pains to let Westerners know it is the other side Chinese culture in addition to Confucius and the poetry of Li Po, say.  Bo Yang argues that this process explains the insistancce on &quot;Face&quot; in Hong Kong, that is,  the notion that good appearences - not losing face - are far more important than telling the truth about China's and Hong Kong's underbelly - fascinating read, and is also banned in China.	2002-08-18
US	41083439	R2NBHW9UFRVW15	0812932323	156077656	East and West: China, Power, and the Future of Asia	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Hong Kong's Best Friend Stays Optimistic About Her	Last British Governor Chris Patten remains optimistic about Hong Kong's future in this book; as long, he argues as the high degree of personal freedom the Hong Kong Chinese enjoyed under British rule is respected by Peking; perhaps a tall order, given that most of Hong Kong's population is made up of millions of refugees who fled China for the safety of the British colony between the 1950s and the 1980s.  Yet it is good to read again the old arguments for decency and fair play that I heard Patten make while I lived in Hong Kong in the 90s.  Patten offers many examples of British law and Chinese hard work paying off in old Hong Kong.  This book is \\"the best case scenario\\" argument for Hong Kong's future.  It reminds me of the cool, rational responses Patten would give to the latest strident denunciation from Peking about \\"colonial oppression\\"; Patten was for awhile there practically the only voice that would patiently remind China that it was up to Peking to reassure all its millions of citizens who had fled, and perhaps it was time for Peking to reassure all those people it was about to take back.  The only thing I feel Patten doesn't play up enough about Hong Kong (I assume to help Hong Kong save \\"face\\", so important in Chinese culture) is the fact that any of those refugees who arrived in Hong Kong with marketable skills and talents tended to emigrate further, to the First World, to begin new lives and new careers there; making those who were stuck behind all the more in need of reassurance from China.  The book also contains a quite a few personal anecdotes (though not as many as one would wish) about Hong Kong life that allow readers to glimpse the rough underbelly that is so much apart of Hong Kong: my own memories were awoken by the anecdote of the rich Hong Kong Chinese property developers, gambling magnates, and shipping famlies who buy expensive wine but then mix it with fizzy lemonade; the lack of any good bookstores in Hong Kong; the seamy fact of all those Kowloon girlie bars the size of aircraft hangers so popular with Mainland business \\"coach parties.\\"  This is a subtle-polite way to get across that coarser side of Hong Kong that, again, Chinese notions of \\"Face\\" do not wish to be talked about when discussing \\"the Paris of the East.\\"<br />The book also deftly flushes the old racist arguments of \\"Asian Values\\" put forward by Singapore's dictator, Harry Lee Kuan Yew, but a lot of the fire has already gone out of those since the collapse of the \\"Asian Tiger\\" economies back in 1997.<br />A good supliment to this book is Jan Morris's *Hong Kong,* which contains a moving, vivid description of the massive refugee migration which has put such an indelible stamp on the Hong Kong of today; Morris's book also contains a lot about the British, too, back to the earliest (if sordid!) days of mutual interest when British merchants would bring opium to the region and Cantonese merchants would distribute it throughout China, to the vast enrichment of both - a good example in a nutshell of the profitable-yet-roguish aspect of Hong Kong's character from day one.<br />Another good compliment to Patten's book is Paul Theroux's literary novel of the Handover, *Kowloon Tong,* a great read and a fine depiction of the Hong Kong of that time, highly evocative to expats who lived there but have moved on back to the West, you will find in it aspects and attitudes of Hong Kong people, both Westerners and Chinese that can still be seen today; so accurate it is banned on the Mainland!	2002-08-18
US	41083439	R2RMLSGDWNCSBO	0745308198	514595316	Jewish History, Jewish Religion: The Weight of Three Thousand Years (Pluto Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	5	32	44	N	N	Last of the Old World Humanists - An Amazing Man	Amazing man, amazing book.  The late Professor Shahak survived the Nazi camp at Belsen and lived for decades in the firing line in Israel, yet his essential humanity and sense of fairness to everyone - Jews, Arabs, and the rest of the world being drawn into their conflict - come - through on every page.  Of course his writings are extremely topical right now amidst the current crisis, but I would like to point out what a joy he is to read if you've read through all of Primo Levi and are looking for more.  Shahak may also remind you of Italo Calvino (in the humanist sense of the philosophy that runs through Calvino's stories), or of Philip Roth's novel *The Counterlife,* where the Israel sections and especially the sad, wise, beautiful character of \\"Shuki\\" reminded me of both Shahak and Primo Levi. This edition of *Jewish History, Jewish Religion* comes with an introduction by Gore Vidal which is also fascinating.	2002-08-17
US	41083439	R17W5SAR5LEYYG	0879759712	710530424	The Bermuda Triangle Mystery - Solved	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Good Intro To Critical Thinking To Give to Young People	I was given this book as a young teenager by my father when I was interested in the Bermuda Triangle.  I am very lucky he did.  The book carefully goes through dozens of \\"cases\\" of missing craft and convincingly shows them to be either the victims of storms, mechanical failure and in several instances, simply made up.  By far the profoundest impact of this book was the exposition of the lies and mendacity of the writers of such books - a young person needs to hear and be shown in a non-condesending way that just because something appears on TV or in book form doesn't mean its true.  Larry Kusche's book started me on the road to critical thinking, to ask \\"What does this mean?\\" to any given statement.  I went on to read a book or two more debunking UFOs and other peudoscience, but Kusche's book did the main trick by getting across to me the importance of checking sources, asking if other motives are involved (like making money out of decent but unsuspecting people).  I also recommend the *VHS tape of Nova's show, The Bermuda Triangle,* which is a debunking tape and promoter of critical thinking.  I also recommend Carl Sagan's book *The Demon-Haunted World* which goes into incredible detail (in a non-condescending way) about why some people need to believe in such things as alien-abduction (or in an earlier era, demonic possession), false memories, the techniques of frauds like Uri Geller, and considers how we can encourage critical thinking in our society.	2002-08-16
US	41083439	R3O66ENV3IV0E0	1558686282	392636141	Singapore (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	2	38	40	N	N	Helpful, But There's More To Know (And Other Books Can Help)	This is a useful book for knowing how to behave at a local cocktail party or with your local business clients.  But when I lived in Singapore in the late 90's I found it did not explain the aspects of Singapore society that actually caused me amd my family \\"culture shock\\" - rude crowds, unpleasant public behaviour, and the unexpected reaction of Singaporeans to their efficient, but not exactly pleasant government. I and other expats supplemented this Culture Shock guide with books like Stan Sesser's *The Lands of Charm and Cruelty,* which had an extremely helpful account of S'pore and of \\"the irrational fear which even the best educated Singaporeans feel towards their government.\\" This is certainly something we experienced. Sesser helped us understand this attitude of our neighbors/acquaintences and made it possible for us to know how, politely, to talk with them about matters other than simply small talk (I would have liked to have known about that from the Culture Shock guide to have saved my guests pain). Sesser's book also goes into good detail about how the Malay and Indian minorities feel like second class citizens in Singapore, something we also heard from them, too.   I also recommend Chinese writer Bo Yang's *The Ugly Chinaman & the Crisi in Chinese Culture* for understanding the centuries of history that have produced the dominant Chinese culture of Singapore and the heavy emphisis on \\"saving face\\" in any and all situations, even at the expense of what Westerners might call \\"accurate description.\\"   Ian Buruma's book *The Missionary and the Libertine* contains a fascinating account of Singapore called \\"The Nanny State of Asia,\\" with more about the dissatisfaction (on the quiet, of course) of many Singaporeans towards the police state government of Harry Lee Kuan Yew, to the extent that sadly many skilled and talented Singaporeans chose to leave S'pore for new lives and careers in the First World - all this we found to be true.   Paul Theroux's *Saint Jack*, though a novel, contained a surprisingly accurate take on many actions and attitudes to be found in Singapore today - of both long-term Western expats and local Easterners.   Christopher Lingle's *Singapore's Authoritarian Capitalism is a kind of \\"bible\\" of Singapore's unpleasant underside, usually considered the \\"twin\\" of Harry Lee Kuan Yew's 1800 page autobiography (perhaps auto-hagiography is the better term!) You can't buy it in Singapore. Francis Seow's *A Dissident in Lee Kuan Yew's Prison* shows what happens if you open your mouth.<br />Of course you can have an interesting stay in S'pore and complete a successful year or two stint in your career, before returning to the West, as we did, but the books above will I feel prepare you for the real Singapore more than just the Culture Shock guide - which, ironically, doesn't deal with culture shock at all.  The real S'pore is a successfull city-state with many of the pluses and problems of a Arab Gulf oil state - Kuwait for example (where I lived, and which S'pore reminded me of - the plus side {clean toilets, modern garbage collection) and the negative (police state with a mean kick if you're a local). It's sad, because a less megolomaniacal government would have a lot to be proud of in Singapore's clean squares and efficient public transport, in a region better known for corrupt, run-down dictatorial dumps.	2002-08-14
US	41083439	R2XZMV1CO288B9	0395171180	696665581	Saint Jack	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Great Novel of Singapore	Fine, absorbing literary novel follows the exploits of expatriate American stuck in Singapore because he has neither the ability nor the luck to go anywhere else.  The novel has a nice atmosphere which reminded me of Graham Greene, Saul Bellow and Gore Vidal, and effectively evoked the sleazy underbelly of Singapore that still exists in that now outwardly squeaky-clean, but sinister city-state.  I read this book while living in S'pore and was surprised how many attitudes and actions of the eastern and western characters were reminded me of the Singapore of today.  So I felt the book worked in two ways, as a great, entertaining read for anyone interested in just a plain good book, and also as a fine evocation of the eternal aspects of Singapore.  Saint Jack was also filmed - the film version is interesting because it captured the old colonial look of S'pore before the current regime of Harry Lee Kuan Yew tore most of it down, replacing it with souless concrete tower blocks.  Yet the sleazy atmosphere remains, and comes out at night especially.  Theroux's Hong Kong novel, *Kowloon Tong,* captures perfectly that other Far Eastern city state at the time of the 1997 Handover (I was living in HK at the time) and is also recommended, both as a fine read and as a fine description of the place.   For a good non-fiction account of Singapore, try Stan Sesser's *The Lands of Charm and Cruelty,* with a great essay on S'pore and &quot;the fear that even the best educated Singaporeans feel towards their government.&quot;	2002-08-05
US	41083439	R26NT1YJ7P25UZ	0844235563	314652549	Business China	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Quick Reference, But Other Books Will Give You More Depth	This book gives a quick rundown of the differences between Chinese and Western business etiquette, but does not prepare one for the aspects of Chinese culture that cause culture shock in Western business travellers - rude public behaviour, extraordinary personal habits; things that can distract you from the task at hand if not aware of them.  A good supplement is Taiwanese writer Bo Yang's *The Ugly Chinaman and the Crisis in Chinese Culture,* which traces, frankly and informatively, the long, sad history of cultural stagnation and repression which is the other half of China's story in addition to Confucius and the poetry of Li Po, and has an impact on encounters between Westerners and Easterners today.  Most important is Bo Yang's comments on the concept of &quot;Face&quot; - that is, the importance of not losing face to a Chinese - this is more important to a Chinese than anything else, and can affect the subject under discussion in a business meeting.  The more aware the Western business person (or again, traveller) is of Chinese society, the more successfull his trip will be (and the more positive his appreciation of China, ultimately, will be).  The style of *The Ugly Chinaman* will give you additional insight into how Chinese culture differs from ours.<br />Another book I recommend is Paul Theroux's account of travelling across China, *Riding The Iron Rooster*.  Many aspects of this far-flung trip mirrored my own practical experiences business-travelling in a much smaller part of China (and Hong Kong).  I found it enlightening and helpful as a general, prepatory work (it is also highly readable).<br />For Hong Kong, in addition to Bo Yang's book, I recommend Jan Morris's book *Hong Kong* which has a wealth of detail on the unhappy history of the millions of refugee Chinese who fled to British Hong Kong in the last four or five decades and who are (understandably) very touchy about this subject (it involves, again, loss of &quot;face&quot;).  In Hong Kong todaythere is a reluctance to admit this sad history but a knowledge of it is essential to understanding how Hong Kong ticks, and a business traveller who absorbs this knowledge will be in a better position to understand Hong Kong.  The book also contains a wealth of absorbing, easy to read history about British days.<br />Paul Theroux's book, *Kowloon Tong* though a novel, captures the mood of Handover-era Hong Kong and has illuminating portraits of different types of Western and Chinese characters of a kind you will meet and interact with if your stay in Hong Kong is extended or you are domiciled there.	2002-07-26
US	41083439	RK9WT09ZNA4BZ	1864501596	918570380	Lonely Planet Singapore	Books	5	13	16	N	N	I  Liked the Way s In Which It Was Unexpectedly Helpful	While this guide was useful in all the mundane ways (accomodation, eating), I'm grateful to for the way it got me thinking about some of the less understandable aspects of Singapore.  After a couple of days of walking around S'pore I began to wonder at the odd sense of artificiality about the place, and the strange way my hosts and others talked of the city-state.  I was glad to be reffered to Stan Sesser's book *The Lands of Charm and Cruelty*, which told me of \\"the fear that even the best educated Singaporeans feel towards their government.\\"  I am also grateful to this guide for steering me towards Ian Buruma's essay \\"The Nanny State of Asia,\\" in his book *The Missionary and the Libertine*, which went into a lot of detail about the police state behind the facade of Singapore's clean toilets, etc.  The guide was useful in all practical matters, but by dealing with some of the unpleasantness that is the reality of Singapore, I came away with a better understanding of the place which grew increasingly creepy the longer I stayed.  Lonely Planet Singapore is an excellent, thoughtful guide that did what it was supposed to do, yet also led me to other books which helped enrich my business trip.  For understanding some aspects of Chinese behaviour in a business setting, I also recommend Bo Yang's *The Ugly Chinaman and the Crisis in Chinese Culture*.  Paul Theroux's *Saint Jack* is a novel set in Singapore - though written in the 70's, I found the attitudes and actions of many of the characters still relevant to locals and expats of Singapore today.	2002-07-18
US	41083439	R3ISDF8ONF0VNL	1883642272	393532306	The Golden Spur	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Peek Behind The Pipe Dreams, Darkly	Fine, funny literary satire of \\"bohemian\\" New York centered around Greenwich Village. This is Dawn Powell's last novel, published in 1962. Like The Fool in \\"King Lear,\\" Dawn Powell punctures the absurd self-deceptions of numerous tinpot Lears (to the reader's vast delight). I found the writing wonderful, the wit fantastic and relentless; there are great lines on every page.<br />Here is a vast canvas of eagre \\"real\\" New Yorkers, fresh from the provinces (small town, or boring suburb), people who want to to shed their past, to hide their ignorance and laugh at the squares (not them! of course): people who \\"want to be what everyone else wanted them to be\\" in Manhattan.<br />Powell is excellent at looking behind peoples' pipe dreams. You'll recognize people and types you've encountered in real life as you read this book. You'll see their dreams, and you'll see the reality they hide from. Here's the person, \\"with her refined Carolina accent, which she kept up like her grandfather's shotgun;\\" here's the young lady dimpled with pride at \\"the generous picnic of her decolletage.\\" And here are the \\"old has-beens, needling me for making it when they never could with their genius.\\" The tone is perfect throughout; I was not surprised to read that Powell's favourite writers included Aristophanes and Petronius, two of the greatest satirists in history. She fits write into that tradition. The only negative thing to say about this book is that the types it describes will not appreciate it. But the detached reader, of even mild self-confidence, and a love of the Roman greats, Shakespeare, Oscar Wilde, Bellow and Vidal - a love of Truth over Cant - will enjoy Dawn Powell enormously.<br />In the end the book is a vast panorama of the New York of the 60's (and today), wonderfully evocative of the pull that city can have on all types of people, and beautifully descriptive of the reality of a decision to move there, for so many.<br />This Steerforth edition of *The Golden Spur* was brought out by Tim Page, who has seen many Powell books back into print. Good of him; but his introductions to her work (*The Happy Isle*,  her *Diaries*, and in his biography of her) I found anemic and vague; he seems to have difficulty coming to grips with Powell's great powers as a satirist , is shy of its implications and tries to turn Powell into a much more sentimental writer than, as a clear-eyed realist, she is. I recommend Gore Vidal's 1987 essay (its in his collection \\"United States\\") which has a lot of information about Powell and gets (I think) the experience of reading Powell exactly right. <br />Try Powell's \\"Happy Island,\\" The Wicked Pavillion,\\" and, indeed, all her New York novels if you like this one.	2002-07-09
US	41083439	R2R4LRSJ32F79P	0679774386	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	3	13	18	N	N	As A Useful Cold War Tool, Inevitably It Was Overpraised	The banning of &quot;Dr Zhivago&quot; in the USSR because of the main character's ambiguity towards the Russian Revolution - the Doctor was not actually against it - made this book a useful example of the absurd lengths the Kremlin was willing to go to impose censorship.  Its reception made it a useful teaching tool in the West to help people understand this aspect of the Soviet Union.  Unfortunately it got so overpraised during the Cold War that the weaknesses of the plot and the often pedestrian writing tend to shock those readers expecting another Tolstoy or Dostoevsky.  Writers like Nabokov and Graham Greene tried to offer some sensible criticism at the time, about this novel, as literature, and their comments are worth looking up.  Even today in Russia Pasternak is still revered for his poetry rather than this novel.<br />I remember as a Soviet Studies student in college (1980's), &quot;Dr Zhivago&quot; was always assigned in the History of Russia classes, not the Russian Literature courses.  For literature we read (and thoroughly enjoyed) &quot;The Master and Margarita&quot; by Bulgakov.  This darkly ironic satire of Stalin's pre-war Russia also works as a universal novel, a commentary on life that any sensitive reader can enjoy (I recommend Mira Ginsburg's funny, lyrical translation published by Grove Press - I've read it six or seven times).  Bulgakov finished the book in 1940, when he died, and it sat in a draw until published in the 60's.  Readers may also wish to try the short stories of Zoshchenko and the poetry of Anna Akhmatova, for some real 20th century Russian literature that can stand the test of time, not just the duration of the cold war.<br />There ARE enjoyable passages in the book, but after a while the poor conception and execution of the novel as a structure become apparent.  I agree with the other reviewers who have noticed this.  Keep an eye out for the reference to Stalin as a &quot;pock-marked Caligula,&quot; and the single reference toLeon Trostky as &quot;Lyobochka,&quot; both very daring at the time (they show how far we have come, too, since 1991).	2002-07-02
US	41083439	R2G6N9V43FMFQ9	0701206640	894065331	The Gallery	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Fine, Forgotten War Novel With Mediterranean Setting	Burn's \\"The Gallery\\" was highly acclaimed when it appeared in 1946; reviewers thought they had found a superb new talent and \\"war novelist\\" to praise.  \\"The Gallery\\" is set amidst ravaged, end-of-the-war Naples, and involves an average American Joe from North America coming into contact for the first time with the softer, older southern culture of the Mediterranean, and the influence it has on him.  The action centers around the Gallery Umberto I in downtown Naples, a great,, glass-topped Victorian arcade where in the various run-down bars and darkened trattorias everything is for sale, from cigarettes to liquor and women.  Though the setting is squalid, the transformation worked upon the main character by his location and his relationship with a local woman forced to sell her body because of the collapsed economy is both absorbing and moving.  This book is much more than a \\"war novel,\\" it is a great piece of lyrical literature well-worth searching out.  If you like Joseph Heller's \\"Catch-22\\" or Gore Vidal's World War II novel, \\"Williwaw,\\" or Kurt Vonnegutt's \\"Farehneheit 451,\\" try \\"The Gallery,\\"  it is more lyrical (something in the style of Tennessee Williams) than any of those (good as they are).<br />Unfortunately Burns' next book, \\"Lucifer with a Book,\\" was one of the most talked about novels of 1947 - because it dealt with the naughty goings-on at an all boys' prep school - not something America could handle in 1947.  Burns was savagely attacked by the same critics who had praised him as a war novelist.  Burns left for Europe and quickly drank himself to death, never taking his place along the Mailers, Vidals, Bellows and Capotes of his generation as he deserved.  The detached, independant reader will find \\"The Gallery\\" a wonderful, surprise read.	2002-06-30
US	41083439	R1Q3Y35Q34TKEM	0345332334	315845788	Williwaw	Books	5	19	20	N	N	World War II Novel With Joseph Conrad Feel	Williwaw takes place in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska during World War II.  The main action takes place during a freak, intense wind storm the eskimos call a \\"williwaw,\\" it whips down off the coastal mountains and causes havoc, freak seas, etc.  Gore Vidal, in this, his first novel (1946), creates a wonderful Joseph Conradian feel as tensions mount aboard a army transport ship making a weekly run.  I don't want to spoil the ending.  There is (I thought) a very CLIMACTIC moment when the tensions among the crew rise to their heights just as the williwaw hits, and - something happens.  The serious tone and cool style of this book I found admirable.  As a war novel I liked it as much as the ver different Joseph Heller's \\"Catch-22,\\" and the lyrical, Tennessee Williams-like John Horne Burns' novel \\"The Gallery,\\" while I liked it more so than Mailer's \\"Naked and the Dead\\" - which I liked for its themes and observations, I just wish Mailer could have (in my opinion) skipped the repetition and saved about 400 pages.	2002-06-30
US	41083439	RLAPFVNDYQK3E	0805060189	814932512	The Naked and the Dead: 50th Anniversary Edition, With a New Introduction by the Author	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Should Engineers Write Novels?	What I liked about this 800-page doorstopper was Mailer's successfull portrayl of a bunch of average, not very likable American Joes and their struggle through the unglamorous parts of war - the tedium of marches and rain and mud that make up the majority of what most soldiers do, most of the time, in war, and yet make it all so interesting, compelling, absorbing.  There is a wonderful sense of the \\"anti-hero\\" throughout, a convincing sense of the awfulness and banality of human actions that are afterwards written up as 100% heroic - when many actions in a war may not be heroic - maybe just mundane, or even squalid.<br />But should engineers write novels?  This book goes on for 800-pages, describing and re-describing the same old situation again and again until you're near to tears (of boredom).  What if Mailer, who studied as an engineer, had not tried to make EVERYTHING connect?  He could have cut 400-pages (plus) and still made the same fine point.<br />I liked this war novel more than James Jones' attempt, but less so than Gore Vidal's World War II novel \\"Williwaw\\" (set in the Aleutians; the main action takes place during a freak Alaskan storm the eskimos call a williwaw; the story has a Joseph Conrad feel) or John Horne Burns' WWII book \\"The Gallery\\" (set in end-of-the-war Naples, about a rough American Joe who experinces a transformation under the first-time influence of southern, mediterranean culture - a fabulous war book), or indeed Joseph Heller's \\"Catch-22,\\" which has a better use of irony when describing the imbecilities of day-to-day army life.	2002-06-30
US	41083439	R1MA7A3EFYEOA	1883642426	243380724	The Locusts Have No King	Books	5	13	14	N	N	When a "Real" New Yorker Is Just a Provincial	This is a fine, funny satire of New York literary life, and of the thousands of \\"real New Yorkers\\" who arrive from their small town or boring suburb and don't write that great novel, or make it big in the theatre, but live the literary lifestyle and are, in fact, \\"pretentiously bohemian, loudly literary\\" - in fact, not very likable.  You've met people like this, and thanks to the talent of Dawn Powell you can laugh your head off about them.<br />Here's the guy who tells you \\"The reason I never went in for painting is I'd want to do it so much better than anyone else.\\"  Here's the woman whose \\"voice showed such cautiously refined diction as to hint at some fatal native coarseness.\\"  Here's the folks at a party \\"generously happy in the pleasure their company was surely giving.\\"  And here's the stranger who bends your ear with: \\"My great ambition has always prevented me from doing anything.\\"<br />A great piece of description comes during Powell's depiction of a night school for recently-arrived \\"real\\" New Yorkers afraid of revealing their ignorance:  \\"There were courses in Radio Appreciation,\\" and such like, leaving the narrator \\"marvelling afresh that so many grown up, self-supporting people should be eagre to spend money studying not a subject itself but methods to conceal their ignorance of it.\\"<br />The whole novel is a vast canvas of such scenes and throughout Powell is painting a absorbing picture of 1940's New York (and the New York of today!).  One thing Powell is excellent at, in a way Eugene O'neill is, too, is in stripping away the pipe dreams that people veil their lives with, and showing the reader the real, stark truth.  Her satire is worthy of Saul Bellow and Gore Vidal; indeed of Aristophanes and Petronius - the latter two writers she loved (she was friends with Vidal, too, in the New York of the 40's and 50's).  If you like this one, try her Happy Island, and indeed, all her New York novels.	2002-06-30
US	41083439	R2H4T99AS90UQ6	0686655214	317838266	Barbary Shore	Books	3	4	7	N	N	The Most Talked About Novel of 1949	Hard to believe, but when this book first appeared (it was Mailer's second novel), it was the most talked about novel of the year. What Mailer attempts here is a spooky, Kafkaesque atmosphere centered around a gloomy Brooklyn boarding house full of mysterious tenents - one of whom the young narrator fixates upon, and who turns out to be the instigator (following Stalin's orders) of the murder of Russian revolutionary Leon Trotsky. This theme attaches the novel more to the earlier half of the century rather than the later, because its concerns - a sense of loss and bewilderment at how the radical dreams of the century's start had completely failed to find any positive fruition - were rapidly losing their hold on American intellectuals of the post-war world. Barbary Shore does impart convincingly a sense of loss - of ideals disabused - and in that sense the book is a kind of clumsy version of The God That Failed. <br />The problem with the book is in its execution. The Kafka atmosphere seems half-baked, even provincial - Mailer seems to have \\"dipped in\\" to Kafka rather than having actually enjoyed reading him. The whole episode of the mysterious tenent and the secret he carries - the best part of the book - seemed (to me) constantly hampered by Mailer's poor telling. As a reader I'm not surprised that Mailer more or less gave up fiction and turned to historical novels or journalism for the bulk of his career.<br />1949 was a bad year for some writers. The other \\"most talked about\\" book was John Horne Burns' Lucifer With a Book. Burns had written the first-rate war novel The Gallery, a lyrical piece of prose set in end-of-the-war Naples. But Lucifer With a Book was about the naughty goings-on at a boys' prep school - not something America could handle in 1949. Burns was dunned out of the States, by outraged critics who thought they had been praising a \\"war novelist,\\" and soon drank himself to death in Europe. At least Mailer found a niche in journalism. Try Mailer's writings on the moon shot, were he's fascinating.	2002-06-28
US	41083439	RVPKIIRMFFFH0	1864502304	576557487	Lonely Planet Hong Kong, Macau (10th Edition)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Extremely Useful  In Most Unexpected Ways!	I found this guide useful in all the usual practical ways (accomodation, eating, getting around, etc), and I visited the few tourist sites thanks to it, and I LOVED the hikes in the unspoilt New Territories countryside, but I have to say I was grateful for the way the guide alerted me to the unexpected side of Hong Kong - the huge, unruly, pushy-rude crowds, the unpleasant actions and attitudes of so many people, the frankly dreary-quality of much of the over-concreted urban areas (so different from Hong Kong's famous harbour setting, which only looks good from a ferry boat or a hilltop).  The comments on why this all was so - the long, sad history of the Chinese refugee movement, pouring into Hong Kong when it was British, the subsequent (also sad) insecurity that resulted, helped me appreciate more the &quot;effervesence&quot; of the city which didn't seem so exhilherating after a few days, but, if anything, more fascinating.<br />It also led me to some fascinating books on the subject.  I  highly recommend Jan Morris's book Hong Kong, which gives great and moving detail on the whole refugee origins of modern Hong Kong and made me realise what an intense human story there lies behind the tourist bureau image of the place (there is much info on the interesting history on British days, too).  The book also led me to some fascinating hill walks in the unspoilt north-east of the New Territories (Plover Cove - a world away from the jackhammers, noise and spitting).<br /> Bo Yang's book The Ugly Chinaman gave me a Chinese account of where all this insecurity and unhappiness and rude behaviour comes from - the centuries of stagnation that went on inside China (he calls the process &quot;the stagnat soy-vat barrel&quot;), the insistance on imitating the past rather than looking forward - there's a lot more to China's story than Confucious and the poetry of Li Po, he insists (I thought Bo Yang's book much more helpful than the Culture Shock guide because it explains to western readers the Chinese actions that actually cause you culture shock; the Culture Shock books tend to just tell you to say &quot;everything's great&quot;.)<br />  Timothy Mo's novel, The Monkey King is a great read and a great description of many Hong Kong Chinese attitudes and actions I encountered on my trip - it centers around a fascinating, eccentric Chinese family living in 1950's Hong Kong but I was amazed at how much was still relevant.<br />Paul Theroux's novel, Kowloon Tong, set at the Handover, captures well the sleazy side of Hong Kong money-making and greed, focusing (democratically!) on British, Chinese and American characters living in the city. Really fine description here, and dark irony worthy of Saul Bellow and Gore Vidal.<br />And Austin Coates' classic Hong Kong book, Myself a Mandarin, will enrich any westerner's trip (it's the story of a British magistrate in 50's Hong Kong, and I found his stories of dealing with the Chinese, the clash of cultures, the insights he gained, fascinating, hilarious and, once again, oddly relevant and accurate for today's Hong Kong).	2002-06-05
US	41083439	RLL76AU95VUU0	0156468999	283082677	Keep the Aspidistra Flying	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Good Man Cornered	Fine read, full of Orwell's clear, precise prose.  This absorbing novel depicts with harrowing clarity the main character's descent from struggling poet to a man stripped of his delusions, wallowing in a Dickensian dead-end job with weird, freakish people around him (brilliant evocation of pre-war, pre-bombed backstreet London) and finally to a kind of redemption, of the kind that that comes with age and experience; a stoical acceptance of life.  Some of the supporting characters in this book are fantastic: the used book store dealer with long legs and short torso who resembles a pair of scissors when he walks, for example.  There are many excellent flourishes, like the numerous advertizing slogans the main character constantly glimpses (\\"The Food That Is Shot Out Of A Gun!\\"), and his subsequent observation that advertizing is \\"the rattle of the stick in the swill-bucket.\\".<br />Orwell's 1930's novels, like this one, Burmese Days, and Coming Up for Air, are far better literature than the cold war cautionary tales Animal Farm and 1984.  If you like the latter (and more importantly, if you don't), try Keep the Aspidistra Flying and the others.  Orwell has a wonderful way of telling a hard tale and yet, through the sheer power of his solid prose, and unmystifying outlook on life, managing to uplift the reader, leaving him stronger and more positive (if less rosy-eyed) than before.<br />Lastly, if you've ever had any employment, paid or volunteer, involving dealing with the public, this is your book.  Orwell's ongoing description of the strange shapes the public takes when you're forced to observe and serve them is one of the most wryly understated comic depictions in 20th century literature.  Oh, the humanity...	2002-05-21
US	41083439	R2046Y1QMB694Z	069400460X	682724987	Paddington Meets the Queen: A Cartoon Storybook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fine book	My four year-old enjoys this book very much.  It is an oversized paperback with simple drawings (simpler than the original books) but very enjoyable.  Paddington causes mayhem at Buckingham Palace while going to meet the Queen - getting trapped in a suit of armour and scaring the servants, falling into a vat of the cook's marmalade glaze.  The Queen takes it all in stride and at the end she and Paddington settle down to a chat over marmalade sandwiches.  My daughter loves the Paddington books after first seeing the old British series (with stop-motion puppet Paddington) that Disney originally brought over from England many years ago.  She finds the new, dubbed-into-American-accent Paddington cartoon a little confusing.	2002-04-22
US	41083439	R19NMWTW557SWD	0788789538	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This is THE tape if you grew up on the book	Very fine rendering that gets the pronunciations of proper names (including geographical ones) correctly, as Professor T. wanted it. Very good (I felt) on the nuances that readers notice in the book after first reading in (say) junior high and then re-reading it every five-to-ten years or so.  Will especially appeal to the less fanatical Tolkien fan who deeply appreciates the book without getting into collecting the plastic figurines or going to the movie of it; the reader who because of the LOrd of the Rings went on to discover other, even greater stories like those of Shakespeare and Dante (for which I thank Tolkien whole-heartedly).  Better than the (enjoyable, light) BBC version, and far superior to the American - accented production.	2002-04-22
US	41083439	ROKWIB0ZDGYSD	1854594702	826696373	Japes (Nick Hern Books Drama Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fine, absorbing drama works on many levels	This is a gripping, disturbing play - the ending is VERY powerful - about the consequences of irresponsibility.  Two brothers and one woman have an easy-going, undefined relationship that ends up crippling them all.  A child results - whose?  Is anyone paying attention to her?  This part of the play is very powerfully worked out to its remorseless conclusion.  Edward Albee says that a good play is an act of aggression against, among other things, one's equanimity.  This play does just that.<br />On another level this play is about the consequences of some of us being talented and others not - one brother is a successful writer, the other is a drunk who must teach in the Third World. The resentments that build over this also play a part in the plays' end.  Each is hurt by the other's existence.<br />For a few readers, there is a third level to the play - Simon Gray based the Japes character on his brother, Piers, a heavy drinker who killed himself while teaching in Hong Kong in 1996.  I don't know what Piers was really like, but the &quot;Japes&quot; character, for any readers who's lived in or knows Hong Kong, is a good example of the &quot;F.I.L.T.H.&quot; type (i.e., &quot;Failed In London, Trying Hongkong&quot;), and Gray provides a moving explanation of the inner motivations of one of those unpleasant/despicable types and gives such a creature some poignancy.  In this sense, Japes is an interesting &quot;Hong Kong Book,&quot; and can be read after finishing the usual Hong Kong classics: Timothy Mo's The Monkey King, Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong, Jan Morris' Hong Kong, and Bo Yang's The Ugly Chinaman.<br />But mostly this is a gripping, smart, disturbing play for all of us.	2002-03-26
US	41083439	R9HNZECDXP6Q	1883642795	978959458	The Happy Island	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Brilliant, Witty  Description of the Other New York	For every person who comes to New York from a small town or suburb and makes it in their chosen profession, there are a thousand others who don't.  What happens to them?  What are they like?  Dawn Powell describes them all.  This book is a wonderful literary read and a fine corrective to the notion that every transplanted provincial is either interesting or deserving of sympathy.  Powell's characters are wonderfully drawn and fleshed out with fine prose: here's the business wife &quot;bragging in a dozen beds of her perhaps old-fashioned chastity.&quot;  Here's the &quot;new society reporter from the largest and worst newspaper in New York.&quot;  Here's a young playwrite freshly arrived from the sticks mortifying a seedy arty-professional crowd and their &quot;shrill insistence on fun&quot; by exclaiming, &quot;New York, eh?  What a dump!&quot;  And her is the (not so) young kept woman who &quot;with considerable care placed her head in her hands as if it were a very fine melon.&quot;  Powell is a treat; there are memorable lines on every page.  Her novels came out between the 30's and the 60's and all the New York books are very fine, literary reads.  She is considerably more on the mark in terms of wit and irony and quality of prose than her well-meaning editor, Tim Page (actually a music reviwer by profession) seems to realize, and in satire can hold her own with Saul Bellow, Gore Vidal, Sinclair Lewis, Joan Didion, etc.  Check out Vidal's essays on her (they're much better, less aenemic, than Page's comments, I felt, after reading her books). Angels On Toast, The Wicked Pavillion, The Golden Spur, The Locusts Have No King, And A Time to Be Born are all also very fine, sharp witty novels of New York; both its fascinating side and in all the balderdash of its aspiring provincials.	2002-03-11
US	41083439	R39NSAJCOUFQ8Z	0807126004	851882650	The Slave Power: The Free North and Southern Domination, 1780-1860	Books	5	36	42	N	N	Powerful, absorbing account of South's stranglehold	This is an extremely engrossing history of the (virtual) stranglehold the South maintained on the US government from the birth of America until the election of Abraham Lincoln.  It is also on account of the efforts by post-war southern historians to cover up the central fact of slavery as the dominating motive in the South's wish for control.  I first heard of this book when I read a (highly complimentary) review of it by James McPherson, author of Battle Cry of Freedom.  If you like McPherson's book, this will seem in many ways like a &quot;prequel,&quot; filling in the story of the run-up to the Civil War in greater depth than McPherson could devote (though he did a great job on that, too).  This book blows away alot of the &quot;Gone With The Wind&quot; fairy tales about the South before the war, and shows, convincingly and absorbingly, the Southern States' governments conscious (and for many decades, entirely successfull) attempts to maintain its slavery interests at the expense of the North and , of course, the slaves.  When the South could no longer impose its will, it opted for war.  Like McPherson's writings, Alan Nolan's Lee Considered, Thomas Connelly's The Marble Man and the writings of Gary Gallagher, this book helps do away with the &quot;Moonlight &amp; Magnolias&quot; view of the South that was so prevalent up until the 1950's and, for some Civil War buffs, is the only reason for their interest.  Too, Leonard Richards can write, so the reading of this book is a pleasure right up there with enjoyment of the argument.  I think it will appear to all general readers interested in unravelling the complexities of the Civil War and our early history.  Unlike so many awful books on the Civil War, this book is intellectually stimulating.	2002-03-07
US	41083439	R32SNTQJ1SXKY0	0385491735	731057622	Truman Capote: In Which Various Friends, Enemies, Acquaintances and Detractors Recall His Turbulent Career	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Capote the Writer was Lost in Ten Years - Sad Tale	The most moving aspect of this collection of oral recollections is how it highlights that Capote as a promising fiction writer existed only for ten years: 1948 to 1958.  Between that time came his best (and pretty much ALL) of his fiction: his wonderful, lyrical novel, Other Voices, Other Rooms; his first short story collection; and, in 1958, Breakfast at Tiffany's.  After 1958 the slide began.  The oral stories in this book movingly underline the point that despite the huge success of In Cold Blood, that book was mere journalism (friends who cared about him as a writer noticed), and that Capote never got back to the promising fiction of his first decade.<br />After In Cold Blood which there was nothing but the parties - the now faded and tawdry-looking ball ball Capote threw at the Plaza Hotel (check out the telling photos Plimpton includes); a friend who attended cried in disbelief \\"This is supposed to be a great writer we're talking about.\\"  The  period of playing mascot to wealthy cafe society is also included in all its irrelevant detail, as are the final, dismal years when Truman found it easier to go on Johnny Carson to \\"do\\" his \\"Truman Capote\\" routine rather than write.  The decline in his personality is painful to read about and his constant lying and  slandering of friends and other writers (a bizarre attack and libel on Gore Vidal, for example), makes him look an unpleasant irrelevance.  His final brain-addled message to his lawyer (\\"I WANT to die!\\") and his tawdry death in the house of an ex-wife of Johnny Carson, add an odd, ironical pathos.  Capote was a figure of fun in later life but this book, for all its cheapness and relying on (mostly) shallow \\"friends\\" for insight is a sad and moving testimony to a potentially great literary writer who never fulfilled the promise of his amazing first decade.  I found it unexpectedly moving.	2002-03-07
US	41083439	R3KMTUFDWGAH5M	0192831984	102796008	The Poems (The World's Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Fine translation by Guy Lee sticks close to Latin original	I found this a fine and useful translation to read along side the Latin text of Propertius in the Loeb Classical Library (where the facing translation has as its prime aim to help the reader understand the latin; it gets a little dry).  Unfortunately, this Oxford World Classics edition does not contain a facing Latin text, like the Oxford World's Classics edition of Catullus (also translated by Guy Lee).  Nonetheless, Lee's introduction has to be one of the most interesting and absorbing introductions around, a far cry from the usual jargon-laden tedium that passes for an intro to most paperback classics nowadays.  Lee is good on Propertius life and times, and on what he himself is trying to accomplish in the translation - basically, stay as close to the Latin as possible yet still preserve some style to the English.  Lee's translations are always elegant on their own and helpful to the &quot;mature student&quot; teaching himself Latin.  Try Guy Lee's translations of the Eclogues (Penguin - with facing Latin) and his Catullus (Oxford World Classics - with facing Latin).  For a wonderful, well-written account of Propertius and the other great poets of the Augustan era (Virgil, Horace, etc), seek out Jasper Griffin's Latin Poets and Roman Life; like Guy Lee's introduction, Professer Griffin's book is jargon-free, well-written and extremely absorbing - concentrating all the time on the poetry itself and what it has to say (rather than literay theories, etc).	2002-03-07
US	41083439	R2WWF4WCPC49OV	0140435611	924976004	Domestic Manners of the Americans (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Quit the griping, it's a great, funny book!	Very entertaining read of the author's trip through 19th Century America, full of wonderful description and enlightening observations.  Despite the griping below, Mrs Trollope simply reports what she sees - men spitting tobacco on the floor, ladies off in another room while the guys have a good time, etc.  She reports accurately on our forefathers' rugged pioneer spirit, but points out the lack of education everywhere.  We want to shout &quot;lies!&quot; but Mark Twain wrote about the same thing, and the aspects of our society that haven't changed much are still being commented on with the same frankness by writers like Saul Bellow, Gore Vidal, Dawn Powell, Paul Theroux and Joan Didion.  Many true-hearted Americans will enjoy this book no end.   Mrs Trollope clearly loved America and simply wrote truthfully about; she is simply beholden to no one - the essence of good writing.  A thoroughly refreshing read.	2002-03-07
US	41083439	R30QHZK6T5CR5C	1853753017	412328937	Poets in a Landscape	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Fine introduction to the Roman poets	Engrossing account of author's visits to various sites around Italy connected with the poems of the greatest poets of ancient Rome: Virgil, Horace, Catullus, Propertius, Ovid, Juvenal and Tibullus.  Highet visited the sites before Italy became swamped by modern tourism; his writing and translations of the best of the bests' poetry is extremely absorbing, often evocative, and always helpful to understanding what the poets were trying to say.  This is a great book to read alongside your Penguin or Oxford classics and/or while reading/teaching yourself Latin, and would make a great companion on a trip to Italy.  The only sad thing about this otherwise handsome Prion edition is it does not include the many fine black and white photographs included in most older editions since the book was published in 1957.	2002-03-07
US	41083439	R3LY0HV18WTXQ4	0804104549	109006436	Riding the Iron Rooster	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Fine Insight , Good Writing, Great Laughs	This is a well-written literay account of Theroux's travels through the difficult land of modern China. I first read this while living in (British) Hong Kong and making trips to and through the mainland. I have never laughed so much at the crazy predicaments Theroux gets himself into or observes (many the same as I was experiencing), and was struck not only at the quality of his writing but how rare a writer he is for covering this difficult and insecure part of the world.<br /> What shines through in the pages of this book is that Theroux the writer is beholden to no one; he delivers accuracy of description everytime, and while this is the essence of a good travel writer, it is not a trait relished by governments out east like China's, where in fact the culture demands \\"saving face\\" over telling the blunt truth (see Bo Yang's book The Ugly Chinaman for an in-depth account of this fascinating aspect of Chinese culture). Even some westerners who live out East (and might like us to think of the Third World as some kind of paradise posting) can get upset at this kind of sober truth-telling about \\"their\\" China. For the detached reader, Theroux's book is an honest, funny, non-spin-doctored account.<br /> If you like this book, try Theroux's Kowloon Tong, his Hong Kong novel banned in China, a very accurate depiction of that small city and the people (both westerners and easterners) who lived in it at the time of the Handover (I read it while living there). Timothy Mo's The Monkey King is another classic China novel about an eccentric Chinese family - a witty, poignant tale, and a book so on the mark that, if anything, it was even more attacked by certain frumps out East than Kowloon Tong!	2002-02-22
US	41083439	R1Q6FUPVNVYDKD	0140442669	503382437	Poems of Tibullus (Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Interesting Translation Helped Me with Reading the Latin	I bought this long out-of-print Penguin Classic of Tibullus' poems (trans. Philip Dunlop, 1972).  I have enjoyed using it along side my Loeb edition of Tibullus (with Latin and English facing translations) as it helped give me one more interpretation of the Latin.  Dunlop is (was?) one of those British schoolteachers of a previous generation who seemed to once make so many translations of ancient poets available to general readers.  I recommend digging this up and using it along side the Loeb Tibullus (in the Loeb Library, Tibullus is included in the volume of Catullus, by the way) and also with Guy Lee's version, also called Tibullus, published by Francis Cairns.	2002-02-22
US	41083439	RKTLGOLFYJ49V	082482394X	521664359	Houses Far From Home: British Colonial Space in the New Hebrides	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable colonial oral history	The bulk of this book consists of fascinating, funny interviews with former colonial British and French officials (and their families) on the Anglo-French Pacific island colony of the New Hebrides.  There are also interviews with some of the older island locals of the colony's successor, Vanuatu.  Included are many interesting black and white pictures of houses and public buildings (all modest by comparison with, say, the buildings of British India), and these compliment the colourful anecdotes and stories of life in this colonial (and modern) backwater.<br />The book is prefaced with a chapter containing the author's academic thesis.  This I found jargon-laden and ineptly written.  But no matter, the bulk of the book with all its fasciniting tales and personalities, and the pictures, make this a strange and fascinating little book.  It will appeal to the curiosity of the general reader as well as to anyone who has lived abroad in a colony/ex-colony and was surrounded by interesting imperial architure, grand or modest.<br />If you like Jan Morris's books, like Hong Kong or Stones of Empire, this will make an enjoyable if eccentric addition to your library.	2002-02-21
US	41083439	R1B1CU3CG4WHDK	0140189300	964793034	Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me (Penguin Twentieth-century Classics)	Books	2	11	21	N	N	Looks Like Bad Writing To Me	I found this a badly written, sophmoric book, unrealistically hyped by the publisher's marketing department.  Much of it read like the liner notes to a Bob Dylan album.  Uncommitted readers who would like a little literary content in a novel of college life may wish to try Malcolm Bradbury's The History Man. But for a really gripping tale, complete with a deranged college student on the rampage, and high doses of psychological tension, try Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment - the ultimate novel of university life.	2002-02-21
US	41083439	R25WBDIZ1OWT0G	0804721955	310373781	A History of Modern Indonesia Since C. 1300	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Oddly Under-critical of Modern Regime's Crimes	For a book that bills itself as a basic text I found this history oddly treading very lightly over the crimes of the modern state of Indonesia.  Phrases like &quot;there seem to have been some excesses&quot; in connection with the massacres on East Timor begining in 1974 do not give the reader confidence - a newspaper will give your more news about the awful things the Indo. government got up to there.  Other terrible stories like the repression in New Guinea and Northern Sumatra, as well as the massacres of '65 seem similarly played down. The author is appropriately critical about the distant past but loses all steam when he has to talk about the present. I ended up wondering if it is possible for a modern historian to speak frankly about Indonesia and still maintain access to the country and its archives - perhaps the author would not be allowed in if he said more?  Perhaps that is the reason for the soft-pedalling. <br />Readers may wish to read John Pilger's articles on Indonesia, or try Norman Lewis's book &quot;Empire of the East&quot; as a start to a more realistic approach to this problematic and impoverished,  yet alluringly beautiful country	2001-11-28
US	41083439	R2ZNNQ9QW0HW3I	0802137970	623008639	India: A History	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Seems to Avoid the Hard Questions of Modern Times	I was glad to read that this history professed to focus on modern, post-colonial India, but was disappointed to find that in fact the author seemed to shy away from the difficult questions about modern India - I mean that particular side of India a visitor can't help noticing alongside all the wonderful sights and sounds - the side which is proverbial with poverty, inept government and inefficiency.  Keay doesn't seem to want to face this squarely at all, and his analysis relies too much on causes relegated to the past - The British, for example, who left India half a century ago.  I would have liked the author to have dealt with the question of responsibilty for India's woes as it pertained to her current (and post-independance) leaders.  But this difficult issue is flubbed, I felt.<br />  Perhaps it's too difficult to talk about.  But I found V.S. Naipaul much more on the mark on this theme in his three books on India (at least they accorded well with my own observations, much more than Keay's down-playing).  Naipual's three wonderful books are An Area of Darkness; India - A Wounded Civilization; and India - A Million Mutinies Now. I highly recommend as companions (or substitutes) to this a-little-too-benign history.	2001-11-20
US	41083439	RHNLFAQFSJOPQ	0719529182	734042333	Into India	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Leaves Out Too Much of the Other India	This is a book in praise of India and as such celebrates many of the good things that a Westerner visiting the country will enjoy - not just sights but people and attitudes.  It's a pleasant read, but having been to India I wish the author had not tried so hard to exclude the other side of the country - the India that is proverbial with poverty, inept government and inefficiency - because as a vistor you are exposed to this side in spades, and I would have liked more commentary on them from an author who clearly likes the country.  I felt Keay was deliberately avoiding anything that would strike the visitor as a huge problem.  Take this along for &quot;positive&quot; side of your trip, by all means, but it won't help you much with the unpleasant, unfortunate side of the subcontinent.  V.S. Naipaul's nonfiction on India was much more helpful here.  There are three of them: An Area of Darkness; India - A Wounded Civilization; and India - A Million Mutinies Now.  I highly recommend those as companions or correctives to Keay's book.	2001-11-20
US	41083439	R2146TVGESCQND	0818802324	230753086	In Search of Old Peking	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Superb In-Depth Description of 1930's Peking	Wonderful, evocative account of old Peking before the mass destruction by the current regime.  This book reads like the wonderful Blue Guides of Europe (before Blue Guide recently changed the format and gutted so much of the information).  The extent of description is amazing - the Lama Temple's rituals, for example, involving canabalism in pantomine: the monks worked themselves into a frenzy and then tore to shreds a man-like figure made of dough and filled with red liquid jam - mess everywhere!.  The authors also recommended that tourists of the day go armed in the temple because of the determined attentions (ahem!) of the monks.  <br />I used this book as a guide in the 90's while living in Hong Kong and visiting Peking - it still had great value despite all the losses (the coverage of the Forbidden City is incredible)  I found many interesting out-of-the-way spots I would have missed if I'd relied on my strangely (sadly) poor Blue Guide China.  In Search of Peking is one of those books (like Austin Coates' Myself a Mandarin for Hong Kong) that will really make you glad you lived (or visited) in China, despite all the modern concrete.	2001-11-17
US	41083439	R2O0TRMFYSXRTS	0141001763	855770597	Ravelstein (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Enjoyable Satire of Grotesque American Character	Bellow has a lot of satiric fun with his character Ravelstein, a boorish professor who has made a mint with a book massaging the prejudices of the American middle classes, then uses his new-found wealth in crassly (and very funny) conspicuous ways - expensive suits and cars, brand names always on his lips, an expensive BMW for his no-brain Singapore toy-boy - Ravelstein is the kind of American that gets labelled &quot;ugly&quot; in Europe - all of which is very good fun and entertaining.<br />The only problem with this book is that, while Bellows mocks this coarse buffoon (and mocks him well), we know from other Bellow novels that the author himself likes a bit of name-dropping, too; perhaps that should make it all the more lovable but Bellow's wit is a powerful weapon and it's a shame to have to think of his own self-indulgences in these areas in other novels like Humboldt's Gift (where a great 200-pager was ruined by a hundred extra pages of &quot;look how much I've learned from books, ma!&quot; style writing).  I missed once again some of the clean, tight writing and scrupulous lack of self-indulgence that Bellow displays in Seize the Day, Dangling Man and The Victim.  Though not as padded as some of his taught-in-the-classroom &quot;masterpieces&quot; (there is none of that bizarre, Chariots of the gods-school of philosophizing here, either, that marred Herzog), this book, prose-wise, is (sadly) the work of an elderly writer.<br />  Nonetheless the satire is first-rate.  And who really cares if it's about Alan Bloom or not?	2001-11-16
US	41083439	R2D374I4LX2KWW	0394585011	372460624	Bellow: A Biography	Books	5	25	26	N	N	First-rate Bio For the Selective Bellow Fan	I am a Bellow fan, and aware of the upset this book caused with some, but thought Atlas's critique was very often on the mark.  Bellow's early, short, novels are tightly-written, well-constructed American classics of alieanation - Dangling Man, Seize the Day and The Victim, for example.  But Atlas zeroes in on the problems of the later, longer books that too often make up the core of university teaching lists - these longer books start off brilliantly, then pad out with a hundred extra pages or so of name-dropping and bizarre philosophizing (some of which belongs in the Chariots of the Gods category), and I think Atlas is right when he says Bellow's early, impoverished immigrant background left him with a strong desire to show off intellectually later in life, to the detriment of his work.  Perhaps in his early days Bellow was insecure in a different way, in the right way, not allowing himself any self-indulgence in his early work and thus pulling off the indisputable classics that Dangling Man, et al, are.<br />This is a slightly odd biography in the sense that it will really, I think, most appeal to readers who pick and choose their fiction based more on the quality of the individual work, rather than those who have invested terms or years studying or teaching a particular author-personality - the most committed Bellow's fans will not like it, but those more detached will find this a very enjoyable and enlightening read.  Newcomers to Bellow may wish to read a couple of his early, short books, before deciding if the later, more controversial novels, or this biography, are for them.  I thought it a great read.	2001-11-16
US	41083439	R3ADA6NFRRPUPA	1558681671	442581680	Culture Shock! Hong Kong (Culture Shock! A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	2	40	40	N	N	Useful, but there's more to know (and other books can help)	When I lived in Hong Kong in the 90's, Wei's book was a useful introduction to ways to behave around Hong Kong hosts and clients.  But the book suffers from a typical Hong Kong problem, the reluctance to prepare the first-time visitor for the more unpleasant &quot;underbelly&quot; of Hong Kong society, which any westerner has to deal with.  There is a general sense of insecurity in Hong Kong society which affects all interactions with westerners, business or social, and grows out of the tragic influx of millions of refugees fleeing China to the safety of British Hong Kong - this aspect of Hong Kong is not dealt with  by Wei, but is dealt with in Jan Morris's Hong Kong (which contains much other fascinating information).  A knowledge of this tragic history (which is often too painful for Hong Kong Chinese to discuss - like any criticism of Hong Kong, it causes loss of &quot;face&quot;), is essential for any understanding of how the place works.  The unpleasant fallout from this historical situation, in terms of the societal frustration and bad public behaviour it causes, is dealt with brilliantly in Bo Yang's The Ugly Chinaman and the Crisis in Chinese Culture.  Two novels of Hong Kong, Timothy Mo's The Monkey King and Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong, offer suprisingly accurate takes on many actions and attitudes that the vistor and short term resident in Hong Kong will encounter, but can again be too painful to discuss.  All the above books deal with things Betty Wei doesn't, and knowing about them will enrich your understanding of this interesting city during your visit/domicile there.   Also helpful for understanding Hong Kong is the &quot;classic&quot; Hong Kong book, Myself a Mandarin, by Austin Coates.	2001-11-13
US	41083439	R348FNHILNNJKU	1854105795	204677709	Hong Kong: China's New Colony	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable Read by UK Independant's Reporter	This book covers the first year of Chinese rule in Hong Kong, by the reporter Steve Vines, whose articles on Hong Kong for the English paper the Independant were one of the few largely fearless sources of information for Hong Kong residents like myself during the 1990's, in the increasingly paranoid world of pre-handover Hong Kong (the local papers were terrible).  Vines pulls a few punches this time around (he now has business interests in Hong Kong), but there is a lot of fascinating information on the place for those of us who left with or soon after the British.<br /> For those visiting for the first time (or simply from the armchair), this book will make a good follow up to the usual Hong Kong classics: Jan Morris' Hong Kong, Austin Coates' Myself a Mandarin, Bo Yang's The Ugly Chinaman, Timothy Mo's The Monkey King, and Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong - all great for an understanding of Hong Kong (including the bits Hong Kong doesn't like to talk about).	2001-11-13
US	41083439	R2AEZESUBFHPN6	0140185992	125402763	The Painted Veil (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	13	18	N	N	The Great Lost Hong Kong Novel!	I agree with the many reviewers here who enjoy this as a gripping literary read.  But it is also the first of three fine novels about Hong Kong - along with Timothy Mo's The Monkey King and Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong, this book for me contained insights into certain Hong Kong personalities I encountered during my residence there in the 90's.  In the case of the Painted Veil, a novel from the 1920's (!), certain actions and attitudes of western expatriates were still visible in my day (before and after the end of British rule).  A little bit of playing at being &quot;gentlemen&quot; by people who could not afford the pose back home.   This book, like Mo's and Theroux's, caused no end of upset in certain quarters of Hong Kong when released.  Though it was not banned in China, like Kowloon Tong, in Hong Kong &quot;writs were served!&quot;  (Parts of Hong Kong can react a little bit like a small town when its described by someone who's left it for better things - the other parts read these books with pleasure.)   The detached reader need not worry about any of this - it's a great read.  Enjoy.	2001-11-13
US	41083439	R21Y3BK2AGUCUH	0224028162	649331893	SHANGHAI	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Highly informative anecdotal history of pre-war Shanghai	The most memorable part of this fine, absorbing account of pre-war Shanghai is the description of the horrific factory conditions in the Chinese- and Western- owned businesses there.  Here are tales right out of Dickens!  I realized, unfortunately, that the unsavoury reputation of modern China's horrible factories has a long and sad history.  The description of girls from the chrome plating factories with \\"chromium holes eating into their arms\\" was particularly awful.<br />The book is also full of interesting stories and anecdotes of all aspects of old Shanghai - the parties, social gatherings, etc, and carries on right up to the communist takeover (when newer and even more devestating things happened). Many interesting photographs. For anyone who's been to the city recently and seen how much of the pre-war architecture survives, this book will be a treat. The author gets a little lost at the end - perplexed (sarcastic?) at Europe's seeming abandonment of the place to the Japanese without a fight, though it seems obvious that London was more worth saving than a ruthless mercantile city like Shanghai - kind of a pre-war Hong Kong is what it was, and clearly from these pages not so much glamorous as crass.  Well-worth the read, this book will give the reader much food for thought as to China's current direction and unhealthy work conditions.  Must Peking try so hard to follow in the ways of its more ruthless ancestors?<br />Another good description of Shanghai's interesting and horrible sides is W. H. Auden's and Christopher Isherwood's 1930's account, \\"Journey to a War.\\"	2001-11-13
US	41083439	R390NVEFSX77QF	0195838319	847171671	Shanghai: Crucible of Modern China	Books	1	0	3	N	N	Potentially Interesting Subject Ruined by Poor Prose	When I lived in Hong Kong in the 90's I loved reading books like these.  This one should be great; the problem is not the subject matter, but simply the flat, dull prose and tortured arguments.  Aside from a small section of nice black and white photos I can't say anything good about it.  Readers interested in this fascinating city may wish to try Harriet Sergeant's Shanghai, which at least is far better written (I'm not sure the other reviewer here read Wei's book or Sergeant's - it is the latter that is full of &quot;wonderful anecdotes,&quot; I think - this one is a mediocre academic text).  Another good book is W.H. Auden &amp; Christopher Isherwood's A Journey to a War, which deals with a 1930's journey the two British poets made to China and includes a fascinating section on Shanghai, as well as Canton and Hong Kong, and includes Auden's poem &quot;Hong Kong,&quot; which should be the anthem of that city.	2001-11-13
US	41083439	RS6B5Y2Z0WSK	1558686150	886867144	China (Cultureshock China: A Survival Guide to Customs & Etiquette)	Books	2	40	41	N	N	OK, But There's More to Know (and Other Books Can Help You)	This guide offers useful tips on how western business people and visitors should behave around Chinese clients/hosts, but irritatingly leaves out any and all difficult information about Chinese habits and customs that the average vistor (including business people) may  be bewildered by, due to their strangeness or initial unpleasantness, but which to know about will help them both cope with and understand China better (and ultimately, appreciate it more positively).  When I lived in Hong Kong and was visiting China frequently (1990's), I (like other expats) supplemented books like Culture Shock China with Taiwanese writer Bo Yang's &quot;The Ugly Chinaman and the Crisis in Chinese Culture.&quot;  This book helped me to understand the underbelly of Chinese society that I was constantly running into (rude public actions and behaviour, personal habits I did not understand), aspects of China any westerner is bound to run into but which Kevin Sinclair shies away from dealing with.<br />I also agree with the other reviewers who wish Sinclair would stop going about how long he has lived in Hong Kong propping up the bar at the Better 'Ole or Foreign Correspondent's Club - being a long-term western resident in my day was a fact more to hide than to to shout about, and perhaps the author will, in future editions, use the valuable space lost to address the side of things westerners will be unprepared for with his book.<br />In addition to Bo Yang's useful book, I recommend a couple of others.  Timothy Mo's The Monkey King, though a novel, gave insight into Chinese attitudes and actions that I found extremely helpful and accurate - I felt I met the characters in Mo's book repeatedly during my time in China.  Another novel, Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong, gives valuable insight into the mentality of long-term western residents of China/Hong Kong - like that of the author of this book, Culture Shock China.	2001-11-12
US	41083439	R2F5VH06MV5E3W	0679742395	470024563	Lands of Charm and Cruelty: Travels in Southeast Asia, 1st Vintage Departures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absorbing book helped me understand Asia I lived in	Sesser's book was extremely helpful to me while I was living in the Far EAst in the late 90's.  His essay on Singapore - discussing \\"the fear that even the best-educated Singaporeans live under\\" in their own country, accorded very well with my own observations.  This book makes a wonderful corrective to the memoirs of Singapore's leader, Harry Lee Kuan Yew, and a great companion to Christopher Lingle's Singapore's Authoritarin Capitalism, Ian Buruma's essay, \\"The Nanny State of Asia\\" (in his book, The Missionary and the Libertine) and Francis Seow's A Prisoner in Lee Kuan Yew's Singapore (...).<br />The other essays include a distressing one on the destruction of the rainforests of Borneo by Malaysian government officials in Sarawk - local officials use their five year appointments to loot the place, the fear of poverty in them overriding any environmental concerns, which (sadly, sadly) seemed a very western - ie, foreign - concern after reading this.<br />The Burma chapter is perhaps the most sobering of all - here the whole sad history of Burma's ruthless, inept, corrupt post-independence rule is laid out for the reader; Burma was ironically far more prosperous under British rule, when it known as \\"the rice bowl of Asia\\" (ie, it exported rice to the region) than under so-called independance. How very sad.  Sesser's book is very informative and will be of great interest to anyone planning to vist/live in the region, or simply visit from the armchair.	2001-11-09
US	41083439	R3LL7ZZDH7VH0Z	0375705376	641511312	The Missionary and the Libertine: Love and War in East and West	Books	5	14	15	N	N	First-rate collection of essays on the Far East	I found Buruma's collection very absorbing, especially helpful to someone living out East (Hong Kong and Singapore), as I was in the late 90's.  The Singapore essay, &quot;The Nanny State of Asia,&quot; is an extremely perceptive look behind the official facade of Harry Lee Kuan Yew's police state.  If you plan to visit/live in S'pore, the things the locals won't dare discuss with you (out of fear) are dealt with here.  Even if you're just travelling from the armchair, this is a well-written and (again) extremely absorbing read.<br />As someone who lived out East I rank this up with Christopher Lingle's Singapore's Authoritarian Capitalism and Stan Sesser's The Land of Charm and Cruelty (another great essay collection on various Asian countries) as books helpful to the Westerner trying to learn about the region.  Buruma's God's Dust has more essays on Asia, including S'pore.  For Singapore, I also recomend Francis Seow's A Prisoner in Lee Kuan Yew's Singapore, and Paul Theroux's Saint Jack (a Singapore novel set in the Seventies but (I found) remarkably up to date in the attitudes it records of both locals and expats).	2001-11-09
US	41083439	R2YXUH56LFDSOY	0140189378	105415017	Seize the Day (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Look, the Lard Has Held Its Place!	Absolutely first-rate American novel of alienation.  Tommy Wilhelm reaches mid-life with a divorce, a lost job, and a father who won't pay his debts.  Tommy asks &quot;How could I have been such a jerk as not to prepare for anything and just go on luck and inspiration?&quot;  It all goes down hill from there, Tommy's Dad telling him for good measure, &quot;Those who wait for help must wait for help. You have to stop waiting.&quot;  But Tommy can't, and we watch him till the bitter end. Brilliant writing; personally I feel this is much better than his longer, three-hundred pagers which tend to get diffuse and laden-down with theories and name-dropping.  Here Bellow is writing tightly and concisely (like in his other great short novel, Dangling Man).<br />This otherwise handsome Penguin edition comes with a tedious, thirteen-page introduction by Cynthia Ozick, doyenne of the novel-as-text-to-be-taught-in-the-classroom school, a particulary inelegant writer to stick before Bellow (who is &quot;irrefragably American&quot; according to her).  There is no need for her introduction, or anybody's, because Bellow is such a good writer the reader will have no problem understanding him.  Why Ozick's superfluous bad prose at the start to mess this beauty up?	2001-11-06
US	41083439	R25624ZIOEVLBF	0853458596	915324447	Impoverished Spirit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Japanese writer helps Westerners understand Japan	Very powerful collection of essays by leading Japanese writer, looks candidly, and without pulling any punches, at Japan's terrible treatment of its own minorities (the Ainu), the country's &quot;collective amnesia&quot; over its atrocities in World War II (in which twenty million ages were killed, along with thousands of European civilians) and &quot;the poverty of modern Japanese political and intellectual life.&quot;<br />I found this an extremely compelling read - I lived in the Far EAst (Singapore and Hong Kong), and this book helped me understand Japan a little bit better - I read it while I was out there and paying visits to Japan, and I recommend it to anyone planning to visit/live there, or simply visit from the armchair.<br />  Amazing read.  Honda Katsuichi is a very impressive writer and person - he asks the reader to think about how the same kinds of crimes that Germany has admitted to are still denied in contemporary Japan! (Sadly, according to the introduction, he must travel Japan in disguise to avoid attacks from ultra-conservatives.)	2001-11-06
US	41083439	R17X9ZE23AW174	0060197765	907746676	From Third World to First: The Singapore Story - 1965-2000	Books	1	29	56	N	N	Theme From Harry's Game, Part Two	&quot;Harry&quot; Lee Kuan Yew is the ruler of Singapore.  Having myself lived in S'pore in the 90's, and having read A Dissident in Lee Kuan Yew's Prison (Francis Seow) and Singapore's Authoritarian Capitalism (Christopher Lingle), it is hard to rate this second volume of memoirs as anything other than rather useless propaganda, in terms of helping a westerner understand S'pore.  This reviewer lived in Singapore and knew the fear local residents had both for voicing any political opinion, and of the hated secret police.  S'pore citizens of Malay or Indian descent privately admit to feeling second class citizens.  &quot;Senior Minister&quot; (as he calls himself) Harry Lee Kuan Yew deals with all this with the same highly Aesopian and elliptical language as in his first volume.  Yes, the garbage is collected on time in S'pore. Western businessmen, to do business in Singapore, prudently enthuse through their marketing departments over Harry's achievments. But western readers may wish to know that inside Singapore no critical response to this enormous door-stopper of a memoir is allowed.  Those readers may wish to skip it, or read it along side what is considered its &quot;twin&quot; - Christopher Lingle's Singapore's Authoritarin Capitalism (get it right here - you can't in S'pore).  Francis Seow's A Dissident in Lee Kuan Yew's Prison (To Catch a Tartar) gives a much-needed rejoinder to ol' Harry's book, which, despite a chorus of official flunkey approval (or the shouts of extreme nationalists), is little more than auto-hagiographical junk.	2001-11-03
US	41083439	R1VZOLTJL1Z3WW	8485809521	145447832	Singapore's Authoritarian Capitalism, Asian Values, Free Market Illusions and Political Dependency	Books	5	12	14	N	N	I wish I could have read this when I lived in Singapore	This was the book I needed while living Singapore in the late nineteen nineties.  I so much wanted to know more about the frankly rather sinister government I was temporarily living under(ultra-efficient rubbish collection, local people too afraid to even discuss politics).  But there was nothing available on the shelves except hagiographical titles about Singapore's ruler, Lee Kuan Yew, or Harry Lee. (I remember one entitled What If There Had Been No Lee Kuan Yew?)  Lingle was a professor at Singapore U and was tried and found guilty in absentia by S'pore's kangaroo courts for published comments in the Herald Tribune.<br />This book is essential for an understanding of Singapore.  It is the &quot;twin&quot; recommended to be read along side (or instead of) Harry Lee Kuan Yew's autiobigraphical junk.   Another good book for understanding S'pore is Francis T. Seow's A Dissident in Lee Kuan Yew's Prison (To Catch a Tartar).<br />Anyone planning to visit or live in S'pore should read this (even from the armchair).	2001-11-03
US	41083439	R3HKHR1SF1AYCC	0449908585	522504663	Happy Isles of Oceania: Paddling the Pacific	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Wonderful Corrective to Lonely Planet Overkill	If you've ever been stuck on a train, bus or ferry in some interesting part of the world, with nothing to read but the (aargh!)Lonely Planet (or Rough Guide, etc) guide book of that region, and have consequently nearly died of agony over the shiny-happy over-enthusiasm for a location that is clearly awful; or if you've fallen asleep over the poor excuses for historical or cultural sections these guides provide, then Paul Theroux's book is the companion for you the next time you visit  Australia-New Zealand and the Pacific.<br />  This is a wonderful, well-written read that's often very funny, and I found it matched my own observations of the parts I visited.   Theroux's description of Australia and New Zealand struggling with their national identity as nations is very well observed - I saw the same thing and am glad I had his book along.  His depiction of the wild Australian heavy drinkers (&quot;ferals&quot;) is simply accurate, however painful it may be for some Australians to admit.  Some of the Pacific islands Theroux described in all their boredom reminded me of places I was living (Hong Kong, Singapore) at the time I first read this, so they certainly weren't unbelievable.<br />  It should be pointed out that Theroux actually liked many of these places he visited - he has simply done a good job of observation while being beholden to no one - the essence of good travel writing.  People who say only nice things about about a place write tourist bureau pamphlets or guidebooks.<br /> Great read.  The detached reader (and traveller) will love it.	2001-11-02
US	41083439	R2QEWVD9D4E3PY	0375724818	696295159	The Golden Age: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mock On, Vidal, For It Is NOT All In Vain!	Whether or not one agrees with every last thing Vidal says, I have to say I found myself doing once again what I always do when I read one of his historical novels - rushing to read the  history books on the era - I did the same thing with Lincoln, Burr and Empire (not to mention Julian and Creation). And I agree with the reviewer who says, Hurrah for Vidal's last hurrah.  The Golden Age is a highly entertaining literary read.<br />Do not be too shocked by some of the claims here that Vidal is skewering the memory of Pearl Harbor (for example)- the detached reader can more than see what Vidal is up to and come to his own conclusion.  Just enjoy it, and see if you aren't very interested in making your own exploration of the era with a armful of history books.	2001-11-02
US	41083439	R332D2LNP99YSD	0130208035	627030774	The Singapore Story: Memoirs of Lee Kuan Yew	Books	1	17	47	N	N	Theme from Harry's Game	Harry Lee Kuan Yue is the ruler of Singapore, where I lived in the late nineties.  I found this book to be virtually propoganda.<br />This book uses highly elliptical and Aesopian language (to put it mildly) to deal with the repression of free speech in the country and other acts (such as his turning of the country's Malay and Indian community into second-class citizens).  When I lived in Singapore, ALL local people were afraid to even discuss politics, let alone mention any criticism of this intolerant megolomaniac.  You cannot buy books critical of Singapore or Lee in Singapore, only hagiographical junk like this, which is then praised by flunkies at home and may mislead foreigners unaware that no response is allowed.<br />Anyone interested in this book should buy (here at Amazon) its &quot;twin&quot; - banned in Singapore - by Christopher Lingle, entitled Singapore's Authoritarian Capitalism.  Ian Buruma's God's Dust has a very perceptive and critical section on S'pore and Lee.  Buruma's Missionary and the Libertine includes another essay on Singapore, &quot;The Nanny State of Asia.&quot; Paul Theroux's Singapore novel, Saint Jack, though set in the 1970's, has a surprisingly recognizable and modern feel to it - many of the  attitudes of the characters were still recognizable a few years ago in the streets of today's Singapore.	2001-11-01
US	41083439	RSMP7W5P5G8NH	1863731164	551024143	The Ugly Chinaman and the Crisis of Chinese Culture	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Chinese Writer Helps Westerners Understand Chinese	This book helped me very much to understand many actions and attitudes I encountered while living in Hong Kong in the late nineties.  Before reading it, I had thought the bad manners in the shops, and the rude, pushy behaviour of the crowds were simply due to the tragic fate of the Hong Kong Chinese, having to live as refugees after fleeing from their homes in China.  Hong Kong is a tiny place and to have millions of refugees pour in over the past several decades, well, who wouldn't be cranky?<br />But Taiwanese journalist Bo Yang showed me that the problems go much deeper than any woes created by the present regime in China, or the ending of British protection in 1997.  Bo Yang argues the problem goes back centuries, a long period of repeated stultification within Chinese society - a combination of repressive leaders, static social systems and a reverence of doing exactly what your ancestors did, nothing more, nothing new.<br />I felt I understood China and Hong Kong a little bit better after reading this.  The crowds along Des Voeux Road in Central, Hong Kong, may still be one of the most offensive social phenomena in the world; people may still laugh when old ladies slip in the blood of the Wanchai Wet Market; spitting, belching and wind-breaking may still be dealt out with nonchalance, but Bo Yang showed me there was a very good reason for this.  A very moving, sad and poignant reason.  I couldn't stay angry or annoyed after reading this.<br />As someone who lived in Hong Kong, I rank this book up with Timothy Mo's The Monkey King, Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong, Austin Coates' Myself a Mandarin and Jan Morris' Hong Kong as the books that helped me most understand that intersting city, which is (or was) both a local financial center and an oasis for all the millions of Chinese refugees who tried to eascape from the mainland, from what Bo Yang so sharply calls &quot;the putrid vat of soy sauce,&quot; (his phrase for the unpleasant side of China's otherwise fascinating culture). <br /> Terribly sad story, brilliantly told in a unique Chinese way.	2001-10-31
US	41083439	RIFCDRWYUZVWU	0679776486	175332354	Hong Kong	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Great Read, Useful Guide	I read and re-read this book over and over again while living in Hong Kong in the late nineteen nineties, both before and after the end of British rule.<br />I found it both an absorbing, exciting read, and a useful practical guide - I explored many parts of Hong Kong after first reading about them in this book - for example, some of the more remote peaks of the New Territories where there are wonderful hiking trails set up in British days, full of beauty and history (they are Hong Kong's best kept secret - the only antitidote for the city's overcrowding).  Also, the author's description of the ceaseless (aargh!) jack-hammering in urban areas is almost poetic (every expat's nightmare).<br />Her description of Western expatriate life is informative and amusing - and accurate - some expats resent this kind of blunt description!<br />  Her account of the Chinese population must not be missed as she goes into great detail of the sad and poignant refugee movement that sent millions of Chinese fleeing into Hong Kong from mainland China to become the city's residents of today - if you are going to Hong Kong (or are simply interested), do take this book along, as the refugee status of the population is a very painful subject (understandably) for Hong Kong Chinese and you will here little about it in post - handover Hong Kong, but an essential element in understanding how the place ticks.<br />Like many wonderful, accurate books about Hong Kong (Timothy Mo's the Monkey King; Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong - read those if you like this one), Jan Morris's Hong Kong can be a painful read for some - Hong Kong's sad history of insecurity ensures that.  But the detached reader, with this book, is in for a truly enjoyable experience that will be both a wealth of information and insight.  Cracking good prose, too.  UK edition is updated to 1997.	2001-10-29
US	41083439	RIU8XGVDL1U6E	0385156219	791657089	The monkey king	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Poignant, ironic Hong Kong novel relevant today - Excellent!	I first read this novel, set in 1950's Hong Kong, while living in Hong Kong in the nineteen nineties - a cracking good read.<BR>    An eccentric Chinese family living in a crumbling, atmospheric town house (of the kind that has, alas, been utterly swept away by remorseless development) is slowly revealed to the reader in absorbing, fascinating detail.  I was amazed, as a Hong Kong resident, at how many of the actions and attitudes of Mr Mo's fictional family were still to be encountered in nineteen nineties Hong Kong (and no doubt today). I felt I met these people, or observed them, many times while living there.<BR>     A sad, funny, ironic book that gains in strength by not becoming sentimental about Hong Kong, nor pulling any punches.  Like other accurate reads about Hong Kong (such as Paul Theroux's Kowloon Tong - read it if you like this one), Monkey King tended to put a bee in the bonnet of some readers, chiefly those types so well-described by Mr Mo herein, and may be a painful read for some.  But the detached reader has in store for him an excellent story, great characters and (an added plus) a book that is very informative about the Hong Kong of reality.	2001-10-29
US	41083439	R3771J8P56MTBX	0316158461	639679794	The Archivist: A Novel	Books	1	5	11	N	N	upmarket romance novel	I had thought this would be a literary novel, but found  the characters two dimensional, the situations contrived.  The two main characters - nebbishy archivist and loud-mouthed grad student, seem more designed for a satire of academic life - Saul Bellow or Gore Vidal could have fun here - rather than the drearily serious atmosphere of this book.   T.S. Eliot is merely used as a prop for some very unnatural, quote-laden conversations.  The grad student character admits to having studied T.S. Eliot for so long she sometimes hates his poetry, later attacking Eliot for marrying his young secretary in his elderly days rather than opting for a warm, &quot;mature&quot; relationship with someone his own age - sheesh! I found myself thinking T.S. had earned such reward for writing &quot;the Wasteland.&quot;<BR>    The book seemed full of resentments for genius, preferring to celebrate the mundane routines of average, run-of-the-mill academics.<BR>    A subplot concerning an American of Jewish descent going mad over the thought of the Holocaust, from the safety of wartime New York, is so shallow in its self-centeredness that it may cause offense to actual Holocaust sufferers and others.	2001-10-23
US	41083439	R3HY0BU5SZLTTL	0140189440	199278992	Humboldt's Gift (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	1	14	25	N	N	cries out to be taught in a classroom	I loved Bellow's two short novels, Dangling Man and Seize the Day; tightly packed, concentrated thrilling accounts of alienation. But while Humboldt's Gift begins as well, it quickly tapers off into a diffuse mass of self-indulgent, theory- dropping nonsense.  I think Jame's Atlas's comment in the brand new bio of Bellow is very apt here, that Bellows, like many people from an impoverished, immigrant background, is trying too hard here to make up for the deficiencies of his youth.  Detached readers have a legitimate complaint about Bellow's penchant for self-indulgence, which repeatedly pads a potentially excellent 200-pager into 300-plus page behemoth of tedium and name-dropping.  A real shame, because Dangling Man and Seize the Day are American classics.  The uncommitted reader may wish to start with those.	2001-10-23
US	41083439	R1QM36U5Y4RBYM	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	1	9	17	N	N	don't judge a book by its cover	I know many people like this book so I just want to address those potential readers who might think this is a literary read. It's not.  There is no depth of character, no attempt to describe what life would have been like in the 17th century for a girl like this, virtually nothing about the Holland of Vermeer's time, to the point where it is clear this was never the concern of the author.  Just a nice, simple romance novel dressed up in a upmarket dust jacket.  Like another reviewer said, it will make a sumptuous Merchant Ivory film, and that will probably improve it.  That cover is very deceptive; there's nothing to &quot;look at&quot; as you read, just the thoughts of a nice girl thinking about love in what could easily be translated to a wealthy bohemian artists' community in suburban America.	2001-10-23
US	41083439	R2JL498ZAP4AZ1	0395901413	441763569	Kowloon Tong: A Novel of Hong Kong	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Highly evocative of Hong Kong I knew	I first read Kowloon Tong while living in Stanley, Hong Kong, just a few months before the Hand-over.  I have found its rendering of attitudes of expatriates and chinese by far the most accurate account of the Hong Kong I experienced on a day to day basis.  Theroux is equally fair (and equally blunt) about British, Chinese and American residents in Hong Kong - I encountered the boorish behaviour described here everyday - that was Hong Kong, a place where people went to make money, or to escape from China (or both).  Not everyone, of course, was like Bunt and Hung, but these are recognizable types.<BR>    The plot is that of Graham Greene thriller, with the sarcasm of Evelyn Waugh and Gore Vidal thrown in.  I should add that I find many of the comments on this page highly evocative of the Hong Kong I knew, too - the novel was banned in China and was a painful read for some Hong Kong British, Chines and Americans I knew (especially the types well-described here -chiefly long-term residents).  The detached reader should enjoy a good read that's also highly accurate in its description.<BR>    The Hong Kong I knew was about the most un-literary place on the planet.  &quot;Criticism&quot; of Hong Kong was thought of as a pamphlet from the Tourist Bureau, an announcement from the Government Publicity Office, or the Website of a company wanting to do business in China.  But that is not what novelists do.	2001-10-23
