US	41102048	R579V3YCGM57H	0964595737	733640907	The Beaded Watchband Book: Techniques for Beadlovers	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Get it for the pictures, not the instructions	This was one of my first beading books. I was going to try lots of these designs, of course with twists because I can't just copy a design. Well, when I got into it, I found that the pictures were useful to get ideas from (all designs have color photos) BUT the information wasn't all that helpful. It has instructions like make a peyote band to whatever pattern you like. Then for the closure, make a little peyote loop that the end fits into. Try it. I dare you to make the watch stay on your wrist for more than 5 minutes. I dare you. After making several loops of various sizes, I ended up developing a velcro closure, but the bugs aren't out of that yet.	2005-08-19
US	41102048	R1VW9FKUJAKVGI	0670035513	56329609	A Stir of Bones	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What???? Satan???	Nina's writing had a similar feel to Richard Peck's writing, although a little darker in \\"reality.\\" They both succeed in creating characters that are able to make friends with the odd ones that have crossed over to the other side. As a teen, Richard Peck's ghosts  became my friends. Nina's Nathan has that same ability to come off the page and become a friend. <br />Then I see warnings on its Satanic Imagery. No. It has Pagan/Wiccan imagery, and if you have read anything about Wicca, you'll know that one of the basic tenants of Wicca is that what you do to others will come back to you tenfold. So, if you want to use wicca for evil purposes, expect 10 times that evil to befall on you. <br />That aside, the book has a slow start. I almost gave up before I got to the second chapter, but I'm glad I kept with it. The story is not about Wicca. It is about a girl, Susan, who has grown up with a father who is so controlling and abusive that she has come to believe that her body is not her own. She no longer even feels pain. He has successfully isolated her from other people her age, and even all other people except the housekeeper. Then Susan finds a way to sneak out of the house to join others at a \\"haunted\\" house. And there, she learns about the power of friendship. <br />This book has achieved a balance of fun, seriousness and mysticism that is rare. Definitely a book worth reading. Unless you feel children shouldn't read A Wrinkle in Time because of Mrs. Who, Mrs. What and Mrs. Which.	2004-05-18
US	41102048	R17NT9HOACME0Z	0312089260	227598864	Writing Science Fiction & Fantasy: 20 Dynamic Essays by the Field's Top Professionals	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Great for Science Fiction, not for Fantasy	I was disappointed with this book because my primary focus is on fantasy, not science fiction. Originally I decided to pass on this book until I found out that a SF writer and teacher I admire loves this book, so I changed my mind and got it. <br />If you know Analog which focuses on hard science fiction and Asimov's which focuses on character-driven science fiction, this book is exactly what you would expect. There are some incredible articles on how to create a believable planet and how to extrapolate from the present society to hypothesize what a future society might be. Stanley Schmidt, the current editor for Analog, included some interesting articles on story ideas editors see so often they know the ending after reading the first paragraph, and articles on what as an editor he is trying to do for both the writer and the reader. If you are a fan of Asimov or Heinlein, you may be interested in their articles just to understand how they think. Except for Connie Willis's wonderful essay on comedy and the world-, creature-, and  society-building essays, the actual writing advice is good for a beginning writer, but won't have new information for an intermediate/advanced writer. <br />For the right person, this book is a gem. If you are trying to publish in Analog or Asimov's, I'd say it is a must. If you are interested in hard science fiction, there is a lot this book has to offer. If you are interested solely in fantasy, this book probably will be a bit of a disappointment.	2004-05-03
US	41102048	ROERINJZ3JB7M	1884910335	641700033	Creating Character Emotions	Books	4	8	9	N	N	wrong time in my life for this book	I'm wavering between giving this book 3 stars or 4 stars. I was hoping this book would give me the background techniques for showing emotions in my fiction. Well, that information is in this book, but you have to dig for it. The book deals with emotions one by one, an emotion dictionary, rather than outlaying a few useful techniques for showing emotion in general -- tips such as the word for the emotion need not be used to portray the emotion. &amp; also, even though the word for a particular emotion is used, the passage may not describe that emotion. Tips like sometimes you can get to the heart of the emotion by showing contrasts etc etc. The techniques are all there, but they are explained in odd places, during her discussion of her &quot;bad examples,&quot; her &quot;good examples&quot; or even during her exercises.<br />The dictionary/exercise format is why I say this book came at the wrong point in my life. Right now I am &quot;1 fiction week&quot; away from finishing a first draft and the end is pulling me. I can't carve out the time in the day to finish it as quickly as I'd wish too. Tonight ideally. So, unless an exercise fits right into the next scene I need to write, I'm not going to do it. However, if I were reading this between projects, I'd be doing the exercises thoroughly and looking for my next story between the lines.<br />I will say that her &quot;good examples&quot; are incredible excerpts from incredible authors. If you are trying to hone your writing skills, you'd do well to read her excerpts and then the books her excerpts came from. The underlying lesson of this book is if you have a trouble spot in your writing, you can go to your library and see how someone else has handled the problem. A very important lesson.<br />And here's another lesson that is not a new idea but it is still a valid idea. Hood says &quot;Years ago, in Barcelona, I visited the Picasso Museum. As I wandered through the building, admiring the still lifes and nudes, I keptwondering where all the Picassos were. And then an English-speaking visitor explained to me: These were all Picassos, done while he was a student there. In other words, Picasso didn't begin by inventing Cubism. He first had to study and experiment with the same ordinary forms every painter begins with.&quot; What a personal and elegant way to say, start simple, study your craft, have patience with yourself, have persistance. Doesn't her quote mean a lot more than my little interpretation of it?<br />So, this is a good helpful book, and when I'm not running after that ending of my first draft, I'll go back and look at this book more closely. It may give me what I need for the second draft.	2004-04-30
US	41102048	R2FP7GQMRJFZ5X	0060509120	816444147	Last Chance Texaco, The	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not a cute little whistlestop cafe story	I first saw this book in the YA section of a hole-in-the-wall mystery store. I started asking questions about it, and got an excited \\"isn't it just darling. I'm not sure if it's a mystery, but just look at it. It's darling.\\"  Brent, if you are reading this, don't worry. I'll set the record straight for you.  <br />It is not \\"darling.\\" It isn't quite \\"gritty\\" either, (too much warmth for that) but it is much closer to gritty. The title \\"Last Chance Texaco\\" refers to a group home for troubled orphans that is the last stop before a prison-style group home.  Lucy, the main character, moves in and instantly sees all the types she's known from group homes in the past -- the mole, the scheming alpha female, the rude alpha male, the prey. The book is worth reading just for the dynamics within the group home, but the story goes farther than that.  And yes it is a mystery. <br />The book also has great, tell-it-like-it-is details. Example: love over a happy meal.  Here's one fantastic passage: \\"I knew that I had bigger problems than just starting school in the middle of the year. Almost everyone was white. It's not like I'm racist or anything. It's just that the only time kids in a public school are almost all white is when they're mostly rich. And believe me when I say that it's rich kids, and the parents of rich kids, who have the biggest problem with a kid from a group home going to the same school they do.\\"<br />My real rating for this is 4 1/2 stars. The last 1/2 I'm holding back, because there were some times I wish Hartinger had pushed his narrative a little farther, or where I wanted more of the great details that are in other parts of the book. Definitely worth reading.	2004-04-09
US	41102048	RRSB9K18LOVG6	0312890168	121066554	Ring of Swords	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Hwarath are real, right?	This book became a page turner for me, yes because of the plot, but mostly because of her aliens and her characters. I fell in love with many of the characters in the book. I understood what made them tick. They were real. But the biggest treat was her aliens. First the Psuedosiphorones, a thought provoking sort of jelly fish. But the book isn't about jelly fish. It's about us. Arnason uses her aliens, the Hwarath, as a way of holding up a distorting mirror to our own culture. <br />But, it is also about the Hwarath, a culture where the women stay home and have babies (oh? Really? Are you sure that's all they do?) and the men are off looking for an enemy. They badly want to find an enemy and when they find humans, yipee!!! Except, humans don't understand the rules of war. I have never read a book where an alien culture is so carefully drawn that you start thinking you are reading something that involved anthropological research, not dry research, but research. Wait a minute, these guys don't exist. <br />By the time you finish reading Ring of Swords, you will know what the Hwarath consider ethical and honorable, who really calls the shots, what is sexy, what is going on that  Hwarath hide from other Hwarath, what they think is exceptable human chow, what their music sounds like (ouch), a touch of their mythology, what they wear when they aren't trying to impress humans and what their theater is like. Especially their theater! I know more about the Hwarath now than I know about Canadians, and I live in Minnesota and have Canadian cousins. And Canadians really do exist. <br />And by the way, the plot of Ring of Swords is pretty cool too.	2004-03-22
US	41102048	R112M0RZYYAV9C	0871161761	191910074	The Elements of Mystery Fiction: Writing a Modern Whodunit	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Read this before...	Read this before.... you start floundering on your first attempt at a mystery. This book won't teach you to write well, nor does it try to. Tapply assumes you will read other books on writing, maybe take classes, and will put in the elbow grease required to learn how to write well on your own. <br />What he offers in this book is an insightful overview of writing issues peculiar to the mystery genre. Such as how to approach a plot that is very much two-fold. To the reader, the plot is how will the protagonist unravel this mystery. But there is also the plot of how and why did the murderer/villain etc commit the crime. He discusses different types of slueths, and characterization points to consider if you are potentially developing a series slueth. He also goes into an in depth discussion of dialog since much of mystery is driven by conversations in which the slueth gathers information. He discusses structure and tension. He also mentions several common pitfalls that every writer has committed in a first draft at some point. <br />On the whole, a very useful book for someone who already has a good start at becoming a writer but just needs a little more direction on how to approach mysteries. My copy has yellow highlighter all through it now, and I intend to go back to it because I know I'll need the information I highlighted again someday.	2004-03-10
US	41102048	R21ZRR42PKT0VC	0689849222	933414308	The First Part Last (Coretta Scott King Author Award Winner)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I understand why this book received the Printz Award	This book, The First Part Last, is the American Library Association's choice for the 2004 Printz Award for Young Adult literature. On reading it, I can see why. It is beautifully written, with two timelines interwoven together. Usually this would be jarring, but Johnson moves from \\"then\\" and \\"now\\" seamlessly so what happened \\"then\\" seems very much apart of \\"now.\\" <br />\\"Now\\" being 16-year old Bobby's attempt to be responsible and raise his baby Feather without burdening his parents. Johnson  makes her readers feel what it is like to have a new human being who is so dependent and so loving. She also does a good job of showing what Bobby has lost, what growing he still needs to do. He isn't sleeping, he is becoming different from his friends because they aren't fathers, he isn't getting time to paint or think or doing anything to heal himself, and he does have healing to do.  <br />And in this process, he gains a new understanding of his own parents. My favorite moment of the book happens shortly before Bobby moves out of his mother's apartment. He overhears his mother say to the baby \\"Take care of him for me.\\" <br />My reason for giving The First Part Last a four rather than a five rating was the ending. The ending was satisfying, but I felt like I didn't know enough about what he had decided to do and where his life and Feather's  would go next. I didn't know this when I started reading this book, but this is just one in a group of books that Johnson has written about the same family. My problem was that I hadn't read the book \\"Heaven.\\" So, my two cents is read \\"Heaven\\" first and you will love this book.	2004-02-23
US	41102048	RD56E2KTT13X3	0439256364	889559581	Indigo	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Wonderful fantasy, serious reality gaffe	I want to love this book. The characters, a lonely motherless girl whose best friends are a little different and homesick for an ocean they barely remember, are great. The plot is good. The writing has a simplistic, spare beauty. Where else can you find passages such as \\"They were both thinking of people who had disappeared and never been found again, and how hard it was to leave behind the people you loved, even if the life you wanted wasn't the one they could give you.\\"<br />This is a fantasy, but the rules of this type of fantasy are everything is reality except the boys' origin and identity, and certain exaggerated actions and events. However, the events of this story hinge around a flood. Once the flood was  over \\"Oak Grove seemed brand new, as if the floodwaters had washed everything clean.\\" Call me a spoilsport, but I've lived through minor floods and the image I remember the most is trees where the dirt around the roots have washed away. The roots look like bare, witch arms. As for more serious floods such as the one described in this book: I had a friend whose family was in the Grand Forks flood in the mid '90s. Instead of leaving the town \\"washed clean,\\" sewage backed up into the streets. There was a shortage of clean water. All sorts of flood-related illnesses were happening. The basements and furniture smelled of mold and damp, and much of it had to be thrown out. When we asked what we could do to help, we were told not to come up because there was no place to put us -- which was true. People had been forced out of their homes and places to sleep during the night were far too few. Instead we were to send cleaning supplies with the Salvation Army. The town had been swept dirty, not clean. <br />Sad. I want to love the story, but she didn't give a nod at all to the reality. She didn't have a miraculous ending where the sun came up and undid all the damage, and she didn't acknowledge the damage, except for a few mentions of muddy furniture and some turned ankles at the doctor's office. Hoffman didn't succeed in walking that fine line of realistic fantasy. She either had to acknowledge more of the realities, or add a few more miraculous events. What a disappointment.	2004-02-16
US	41102048	R1VRVGDI4RLVO7	0710086873	557411472	The Fairies in Tradition and Literature	Books	5	34	35	N	N	If you are researching the Fey, this is a must	Not a book for someone who doesn't have much background in the English, Scottish and Irish fairy lore simply because Briggs will refer to common folktales that you will know if you've read a lot. But if this is a new interest for you, you'll want to have at least read your Yeat's folktales first.  <br />If you are trying to get a good understanding of fairy lore because you are writing a piece of fiction or some other reason, this is the perfect book. First, she splits the fairy folk into two different types -- the diminished gods and the dead. I hadn't thought about the fairy connection to the dead, but once I read this, I knew she was right. She does a wonderful job at making sense of a hodge-podge of tales from several locations and time periods, complete with all their contradictions. And if you've ever wanted to know what fairies eat, she will tell you. And what they do for fun too. When Katherine Briggs passed away at the ripe old age of 82, the world lost a great resource.	2004-02-15
US	41102048	R2J7453FVIPGNT	0195410246	967639527	Only Connect: Readings on Children's Literature	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Thought-Provoking Essays	Only Connect is a well chosen group of essays that represent most of the facets of children's literature, from picture books to young adults, from the authors' impressions to the literary critics.  <br />Since there isn't a lot of information on this site about this book, I'll go into detail. The first section \\"Books and Children\\" includes a variety of general essays ranging from the importance of literature to children to specific archetypes/motifs that show up in children's writing. The plums of this section are John Daniel Stahl's \\"The imaginitive Uses of Secrecy in Children's Literature\\" and Tim Wynne-Jones \\"An Eye for Thresholds.\\" You won't look at setting the same way again after reading these. <br />This is followed by 3 sections \\"Myth and Folklore,\\" \\"Fantasy\\" and \\"Science Fiction.\\" P.L. Travers \\"Unknown Childhood\\" is a very mythic essay that will get you thinking about what all those fairy tales actually do for the listener. Margaret Mahy's essay reveals in brief how she develops ideas. Tamora Pierce's essay on \\"Fantasy: Why kids read it, Why Kids Need it\\" describes the special quality of YA readers to a T. This essay breaths life into the genre. Terry Pratchett's \\"Let there be dragons\\" is a good overview on science fiction, and a good laugh too.<br />Then there is a section on Poetry, including an essay by the widely acclaimed XJ Kennedy, a section on Picture Books which ranges from Uri Shulevits' \\"What is a Picture Book\\" to David Lewis's \\"The Constructedness of Texts: Picture Books and the Metafictive.\\" Ha ha! Take that you post-modernists! Children's books have had characters popping out of the pages and ripping through their own illustrations for years. <br />Then there are three essays on Gender Relations. Brian Attebery's \\"Women's Coming of Age in Fantasy\\" is definitely food for thought to anyone trying to plot a modern young adult book. Next is you guessed it, a section on YA literature. The Adolescent Novel of Ideas\\" by Peter Hollindale which talks both about realistic fiction and speculative fiction. Here's a quote to think on \\"The adolescent novel of ideas is marked at its best by the logic, spaciousness, and lack of compromise of its 'what if's'.\\"<br />Then the book concludes with \\"Recent Trends and Overviews\\" which includes a healthy debate on the use of children's literature for certain agendas, censorship and the publishing industry.  Katherine Patterson's essay is very candid, and covers both the creative process and what it is to write historical fiction. It is followed by a very sweet and short piece by Margaret Atwood. <br />So, if you are interested in Children's Literature, there's enough variety here I'm sure you can find something that interests you.	2004-02-13
US	41102048	R3F6IOKREX1255	0064472574	553015843	Breathing Underwater	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Uncomfortable subject handled well	It's hard reading a book where the main character is unlikeable, and Nick is most definitely unlikeable. Although the first person narrative makes it a little easier to accept Nick. Flinn has done a good job of not only showing what an abusive relationship is and how it fuels itself (controlling behavior from insecurities preying on someone elses insecurities, reinforced by an I'll do anything if you don't hurt me again response -- to simplify it way too much). But more impressive, she has shown how someone can grow and start to move on -- convincingly. This isn't a \\"it's for teens so I have to find a silver lining\\" type ending. Nick has a long way to go at the end of the book. Everything isn't magically better, but there is a plan.<br />Also Flinn's details, events, background stories of the characters clearly come from her experiences working with people in similar situations. Even her wildest story -- Leo becoming a puppet abuser (i.e. his father is pulling the strings) is very believable, at least to me, because I know someone whose father made him do horrible, abusive things to his sister. <br />Painful, yet healing book to read, about something that both teens and adults need to be aware of.	2004-01-31
US	41102048	R2N44I7WP05RBU	0553380397	49515642	Don't Shoot the Dog: The New Art of Teaching and Training	Books	5	209	225	N	N	not just for the dogs	I've read quite a few dog behavior, training and intelligence books and always had this on the to read list because of its reputation of being the \\"bible\\" of dog training. But I didn't really want to read it because of the title, and hey, the cover isn't too imaginitive either. I know don't judge a book by a cover, but to be honest, reading has a sensual side too -- good clean lines, fits nice in the hands, smooth paper. You bookaholics know what I'm saying.  <br />So, I finally got around to reading this and I can see why people say this book is life-changing. Pryor spent very little time talking about dogs specifically but showed many examples on how these methods could be used with people with disabilities, your own kids, spouse, cat etc.<br />I'm a trainer's assistant at a dog obedience school,  and as I read this, it all looked familiar. It is basically the foundation philosophy of our school. It's a method of communication. A way to build a relationship and communicate what you want from your dog in a positive, punishment-free manner.  Reading this book helped me clarify why we at the school do things as we do. And as I finished the book, I was thinking of one of the comments a woman made at a trainer's funeral. The gist was that she had learned from his gentle approach to the dogs, and this had spread to the way she approached people as well.  <br />It's true. \\"Clicker training\\" as some people call this training philosophy will spill outside of your doggy life and into other areas... if you come to this as a dog trainer.  As a dog trainer, your dog doesn't sit when you say sit. Instead of getting mad and saying sit sit sit! jerking on the collar or pushing on the butt, first you think \\"does my dog understand 'sit?'\\" Then you'd break it down into it's components -- sit is an action (head goes up, butt goes down) and responding to the command requires that 1. the dog knows the action 2. the dog knows the word is connected to the action. Then you'd find a way toget your dog past whatever is hanging him up.  So, if this is your habitual style of response to other's \\"mistakes,\\" you will start to develop patience, compassion and clear communication. And those skills will take you far in life. <br />And extra bonus -- besides learning  training methods, you'll read alot of funny anecdotes about frisbee-playing elephants and bell-ringing hermit crabs too.	2004-01-29
US	41102048	R1GF139L82AQ8V	0886773865	125534191	Gate of Darkness, Circle of Light	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Funny read, but wait, there's more	This was a very amusing read that took many unpredictable turns that I won't even mention. Wouldn't want to spoil them. And yes, there is also a bit of comfortable predictableness where the reader sees things happening long before they hit the character.  Somehow, Huff can make the most &quot;oh I've known that story since kindy-garden&quot; thing into oh my g how ghastly. Great sense of detail. And she isn't afraid to play fast and loose with world religions. And she is capable of creating a character that realistically (fantasy-style) changes and grows.<br />What I was thinking about, among many other things she made me think about, when I put the book down, is how an author's whole life and way of being seep into their books. For example, some authors always have a wry way of looking at the world, perhaps their humor comes from showing &quot;of course it's this way&quot; juxtaposed to &quot;this is how I hoped it could be, but of course no.&quot; Some authors always  write with cynicism -- Ray Bradbury for one. His short stories are filled with a bitter view of humanity. Even Farenheit 451 is bitter -- but don't get me wrong; I love Farenheit 451 and it's phoenixesque qualities. Twain always writes with a deep cynicism that grows from great idealism. Huff writes from a generousity of spirit, a welcomingness and hopefullness. This book will make you feel more positive about the world, and have you seeing the &quot;greys&quot; scurrying around and hanging out in the trees.  This is the first Huff book I have read, so I hope I haven't judged her wrong. I think this hopefullness is just part of her, and I love seeing a spirit like that weaving through the turns and dips of fiction.	2004-01-24
US	41102048	R2UBVPHJGLGMU1	1567921698	692217312	The Great Piratical Rumbustification & the Librarian and the Robbers	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Mahy doing what Mahy does best	It's kind of sad that the lack of reviews here makes it look like no one has looked at this funny book on this site since 1998.  It's very funny and just the kind of book a young boy would make any adult read to him over and over. And girls will like it too.<br />If you had put your hand over my eyes and read the first paragraph of the first story to me, with main characters Alpha, Oliver and Omega, I would have known who wrote it right away. It has Mahy's rhythm, her humor that comes from the sound of the words, the alliteration she loves. This is a book made to be read aloud. It sounds funny, and it means funny too. The plot of these two stories twist in ways that, even having read a lot of Mahy, I never could have predicted. Everytime I encounter one of her stories, I wonder how that kind of twist came to her. I wish I could do  it myself.<br />The first story is about three boys who have recently moved into a house. In the apartment, whenever the boys tried to do something adventuresome, they were told to wait until they were in a big house. Then they'd have space enough to have an adventure. Well, they were in the new house, and nothing was happening... until a pirate decides their house is the perfect place to \\"steal\\" a party.<br />In the second story, a bunch of atypical robbers kidnap an orphaned librarian reasoning that her \\"parents\\" would be the city, and they would have to come up with ransom in order to open the library again. But of course, the librarian always wins. Mahy was herself a librarian for many years.<br />Perfect read-aloud book. Lots of fun. And the illustrations are an extra (goofy) plus. They are done by Quentin Blake, the illustrator who worked on Roald Dahl's books, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, BFG, The Witches etc. You'll recognize his style when you see it.	2004-01-22
US	41102048	R6BEKPF9LF2R2	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Memorable characters with real problems	Delightfully funny, sweet and sad. Spinelli handles a common subject, conformity, in a fresh manner. His 1st person narrator, Les Borlock, is perfect. He is torn by his attraction to Stargirl for her uninhibited ways, generosity and creativity although he knows these very things are what is making her an outcast. And she is taking him down with her. <br />But, that reduces the story down way to far. His characters become real people. As for Stargirl, Archie the paleontoligist responds to the comment  that she is like another species with \\"On the contrary, she is one of us. Most decidedly. She is us more than we are us. She is, I think, who we really are. Or were.\\" And how true. Even in her weirdness, she reminds me of several of my friends. Stargirl is what you would get if you smooshed my theatrical friend, with my brainy friend, with my friend who always made valentine's cards for her friends and crushes, with my paranormal friend, and then erased the shyness that all of my friends have struggled with all their lives. In a way, the character of Stargirl is an inspiration for boldness. And, once again, I'm reducing this down too far. Spinnelli's \\"Loyal Order of the Stone Bone\\" takes this book beyond being a highschool romance story into something more... shall we say cosmic?	2004-01-20
US	41102048	R3TC1FTWJOG0SC	0531301818	109103220	Simply Delicious	Books	4	3	3	N	N	word play	The story is pretty simple: Mr. Minky rides his bike down a jungle path to get an icecream cone home for his boy before it melts.  The story gets its charm from Mahy's trademark word play -- double dip chocolate chip with cherry etc etc. This book rhythmically sounds a bit like Dr. Seuss.  Kids will love the animals that all want the icecream cone, but the illustrations aren't ever going to win a Caldecott award. The butterflies look quite elephantine, and Mr. Minkey's pie and pudding looks more like mashed lentils with green peas. So if you have a child who loves animals and the sound of words, this may be a good book. If your kids are looking for arresting pictures, they'll be turning the page on you before you can finish reading it.	2004-01-16
US	41102048	R2EYM74RXM15SE	189176702X	959998361	How to be the Leader of the Pack...And have Your Dog Love You For It.	Books	4	201	205	N	N	Mixed reaction	I've read several different dog training and behavior books, and Patricia McConnell is one of the best... and one of the funniest. Everything in this pamphlet is good advice, and good things to be reminded of. We have a problem in our household with different &quot;standards&quot; for our dog, so I will leave this book around the house hoping my DH reads it. It is short, so he might, and if he tries some of the suggestions it would solve many problems. Pushy begging, refusals to give back stolen objects, you get the idea -- involving the dog and DH. <br />So yes, this book is an excellent resource for new dog owners or dog owners that are having problems. It is a short read, so it is good for experienced owners to look at to. I earmarked a few passages to remind myself to work on those things with the dog myself. <br />However, this is not The Other End of the Leash. There isn't anything new or deeply in depth in this pamphlet, and having read other of McConnell's writing, I was hoping it would have some new insights. So I was a little disappointed. <br />But the trainer's assistant in me is delighted that there is a brief and clear pamphlet with a lot of good advice in it that I could hand to a student and expect them to read it, understand it, and learn gentle things they can do to improve their relationship with their dog from it.  McConnell clearly wrote this because she found that many of her human clients (she is a behavioral consultant and trainer) needed this information, and wouldn't it be nice if she could hand them a pamphlet so they could easily remember what she explained to them.  And yes, the information in this pamphlet could certainly help reduce the number of dogs visiting the behaviorist or the humane society. So, brava on that score.	2004-01-13
US	41102048	R17MQXD9QIXEAY	0142500275	344304803	A Step From Heaven	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Compassionate, ugly-beautiful book	This book comes highly recommended. It received the Printz award for young adult literature, and is called a must-read by my writing instructor. On reading it, I can see why. On the surface, the book is about a child-immigrant's experience adapting to life in the United States. It is written more in the style of an adult novel than a YA novel. An Na rightly expects her readers to be able to handle more than a lot of books expect them too.<br />The voice An Na uses to tell her story is fascinating. It begins with Young Ju as a four-year old who speaks no English. Instead of using normal names for things like \\"toilet paper\\", she describes them with amazing childlike and unusual words. When she is in America, English dialogue is written how she hears it, not how it is spelled. Wonderful way to show how confusing a new language is. This book is full of touch and smell, as well as sight. She uses vivid descriptions --For just one example,  the touch of her mother's rough hands feel like the lick of a cat's tongue.<br />The book covers Young Ju's  life from Age 4 to college age, and the voice matures with her, from the child who still believes magical things, like planes fly to heaven, to a woman who is becoming independent and American despite her's fathers wish to keep her Korean-thinking and subservient.<br />This book is truly rich with experience. Nothing is flat. She uses many contrasts. We see her father reading the Korean newspaper avidly and then being stumped completely by a few immigration forms. And it goes on with wonderful details like that.<br />And as for her father, his portrayal is superb. He is a mean-spirited violent alcoholic. Yet he is their father, and at times there are very good times. At times, he worked for the family very hard. We know how he is struggling with a new culture. While there are no excuses for his behavior, we know he was not always like that.  I have rarely seen a characterization that shows the destruction of a life as richly, unsentimentally and unsensationally as this.<br />And of course, the other treat of this book is seeing Young Ju change from a girl who watches things happen to a girl who makes things happen. A book well worth your time.	2004-01-10
US	41102048	R2HVDZ47NS8O0F	0316578398	87101258	The Art of Raising a Puppy	Books	1	630	724	N	N	A word of caution	When someone walks in to the dog training center I work at and says I'm reading this great book by the Monks of New Skete, I pause and then find some tactful way to say, remember, if something seems like it might not be right for you and your dog, it isn't right for you and your dog. Then an instructor who also is very involved in &quot;black-spotted dog&quot; rescue will walk by and say &quot;Whatever you do, promise me you'll never do an alpha roll. You wouldn't believe how many dogs I see because of the alpha roll.&quot;<br />The alpha roll is a technique espoused by the Monks, although I hear the main author of these books no longer recommonds the roll. It is to teach the dog that you are dominant. Basically you roll the dog over and hold it on its back until it quits struggling. Problem is instead of learning that you are dominant, many dogs learn that you are scary. And a fearful dog can grow up to become an aggressive dog. If you want to read a harrowing tale about what the alpha roll can do to a dog, pick up Patricia McConnell's The Other End of the Leash.<br />Some of this book is helpful. I particularly like the interview with Maurice Sendak (whose dogs have clearly unlearned some of the Monks' training.) The food/potty training schedule is very helpful. That's what people rave about when they come into the center. Up to about chapter 11, I don't see anything majorly wrong with the book. The chapters on early development and socialization provide a lot of useful information. If the &quot;Who should have a dog&quot;  chapter persuades one person that they aren't  ready to provide the environment needed for the type of dog they are thinking about, I have to applaud it.<br />But, their main methods of training don't feel right to me. Enough said already about the alpha roll. No food? I understand their point that you want the dog to work for you, not a bribe. But I have seen several dogs I.Q go up significantly when the reward is changed from kibble to cheese. Treats go an awful long way towards getting your dog to focus on you, and getting your dog to figure out what you want it to do. We teach sit by putting a piece of food by the dog's nose and moving it up. They catch on pretty quick!  Once they've figured it out, then we start backing off on the &quot;bribes.&quot;<br />And no food, just corrections and verbal praise, might work on German Shepherds but forget it on Basset Hounds. And I wouldn't expect it to work well with labs, chessies, basenjis, many spaniels etc etc. As for corrections, doing things such as holding a dogs forefeet up when they jump on you until they squirm is unnecessary. And  that makes me cringe when I think about the still-growing hips of a young dog.  Most dogs eventually get it if they get no attention when they jump but lots of attention when all four feet are on the ground. It takes patience to train this way, but  withdrawing attention works wonders if a dog has learned that your attention is good (that is, attention doesn't mean an alpha roll).<br />I could go on, but oh well. I'll say it again, if something doesn't feel right for you and your dog, it isn't right. You have to be the judge. And as for &quot;The Art of Raising a Puppy&quot; take the good out of it and erase the bad from your brain cells. If you are in need of a basic Puppy Primer, everyone I asked when I was getting my first puppy said to get &quot;How to Raise a Puppy you can Live With&quot; and I agree. &quot;How to Raise a Puppy You can Live With&quot; is one of the best places you could start.	2003-12-22
US	41102048	R2UUBXCP27CM7P	0140171606	645583180	Ireland and the Irish: Portrait of a Changing Society	Books	4	4	4	N	N	outdated, but still interesting	I may have had a slightly older edition of this book since the last dates refered to were 1995 and Amazon lists this as 1997. ...Ardagh doesn't hesitate to put forth his own personal opinions, which are very British. But it  takes an outsider eye to write a book such as this that looks at the general character of a people and their changing history. An insider would find many things, such as the casual mixing of classes, not worth mentioning. But to an outsider, those are the very things that set the Irish apart as a people. <br />As a reader from the United States, his use of pounds and constant camparisons to the British political system weren't very helpful, and his use of the term \\"wetback\\" was  disconcerting. I'm not sure he meant it to be a colorful word or an offensive word. However, Ardagh clearly loves Ireland and has spent plenty of time there. He shows political trends and the changing role of the church unflinchingly -- complete with all the scandals. I remember reading about Miss X, a 14-yr old rape victim who was stopped from going to England for an abortion, when it happened. What you get from this book that wasn't in the U.S. Newspapers was this mixed reactions of the Irish people. Ardagh makes it very clear that although there are generalizations that can be made about the Irish, they are certianly not  \\"One Voice.\\" <br />I also appreciated the 100 pg chapter on Northern Ireland. He managed to write about \\"the troubles\\" without taking sides other than that of anyone who wanted a lasting peace. He did defend the British role in a way that reflected his native heritage, but at the same time he openly admitted that some of the actions of the British Army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary have fanned the fires. I understood and respected the more recent British approach in a way I hadn't before. I had not been aware that the IRA and UDN were both involved in vigilante activities in their own communities, and that extorting collection money was common practice. I shouldn't have been surprised, but I was. For some reason, I thought the paramilitary groups spent their time and energy on each other and didn't have time for these sideline, ganglike activities. <br />It was also interesting to read the postscript that was written during the ceasefire and peace attempt during John Major's premiership. Ardagh had spent many, many pages talking about different Irish-led ventures that brought Protestants and Catholics together to foster peace. I found myself asking, with so many people working towards peace, how come it isn't happening? And the description of the Mid-90s peace attempt sounded so similar to the more recent attempt under Tony Blair & Bertie Ahern's premierships, that it was both interesting and frustrating. I followed the last round very closely, as an Irish American yes, but more because \\"the troubles\\" is my first memory of war. I remember my father answering questions like \\"what is a hunger strike.\\" I remember watching buildings in London coming down on the nightly news. But I wasn't old enough to connect the two. I was eager to see a war that had been in the background all my life, wrapped up and ended. Alas. When I was reading Ardagh's hopeful postscript, I wanted to throw the book against the wall because I knew the violence still continues.<br />In summary, worthwhile read, but there are probably more current books available. And I still hope for peace in Northern Ireland.	2003-12-21
US	41102048	R2SRP7TN38LE05	0689850530	11153814	Alchemy	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sorry to see so few reviews on this book	I was hoping to see how others responded too it. This book has been nominated for the American Library Association's Best Books for Young Adults -- a list that will be whittled down to ten books soon and several honorable mentions. <br />For those of you who don't know much about Mahy, she is an Australian fantasy writer who has been writing picture books, middle grade novels and short story collections for quite sometime. S Odgers, the reviewer from Tasmania, is dead on in mentioning Diana Wynne-Jones and Mahy together. They are definitely kindred spirits.<br />Mahy's strong suit is an ability to move from reality into fantasy so smoothly that the fantasy part just makes sense. Of course that would happen. She can also be very funny, and often her books/characters engage in wonderful word play. This book is no exception. Jess Ferret, the mysterious center of Alchemy, is always playing with Spoonerisms, switched words, witched swords you know. <br />In this book, a teacher (well-meaning???) blackmails a popular perfect student, Roland, into striking up a friendship with the school outcast, Jess Ferret, to find out what is troubling her. Jess doesn't particularly want this attention, and can take care of herself thank you very much. But there are several things odd about her. Her outside of school and at school personalities are very different, and her parents' whereabouts are unknown. Her house is frozen, not temperature-wise. And Roland, is struggling with some side of himself that he would prefer not to acknowledge -- and Jess has something to do with that side of himself. <br />Doing a reverse Mahy  thing, walking her fantasy back to real life -- yes, there are people who collect other people's power. They diminish others to make themselves strong. You don't have to look too far to find someone like that. And this kind of person is very much a part of what is happening in this book. <br />What bothers me about this book though is her treatment of the bad guy. Heis very very much an unarguable bad guy. More subtlety may have been more interesting. He has enough irreconcilable points of difference with Jess in particular, and Roland as well, to be a bad guy simply because his view of what should be doesn't work with their view. Not necessarily because he is evil. Mahy could have found a lot of ideas to play with if she were to take that approach, but she also would have had to abandon some of the ideas she did explore in this book.<br />Like a lot of Mahy's work, I don't think it's really fair to judge on one reading. The second reading is usually much more fun and much richer, because you can see where she is going with things. You are in on it. I've read her books and thought they were blah the first time, and just loved them the second time. I suspect when I read this book again, I'll love it rather than like it.	2003-12-14
US	41102048	R30CB68MT98P19	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Did we go to the same highschool	Ok, obviously I'm an adult reader. This is a fabulous book on a topic that unfortunately is part of reality, and also unfortunately is one women/girls are ashamed to speak up about. Her approach to a sensitive topic and her empowering ending are enough to recommend this book alone.<br />But the highschool she set it in was so real, I was having flashbacks. We had the same mascot, the same jokes about our mascot, the same enemy school mascots, latin club, the same cliques, the uncomfortable mix of kids who flaunt their family's wealth with kids who are from economically average families, the same lunch room politics, the same weather. But I'm from the midwest, not the east coast. Her lists of lies they tell you on the first day of school fit my school perfectly. She hit straight to the gut of what it is to be in highschool. I'd managed to forget about all that.	2003-11-28
US	41102048	R7DAA63UUFGT8	0152163050	746501561	When Dad Killed Mom	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Sensational subject, down to earth treatment	...<br />There were a few places where Jenna's thoughts seemed overboard to me. When Gregory first shows up, he's speaking like an adult, not a teen. But later on in the book, both of these characters become very real. Gregory's situation makes a great contrast to Jeremy and Jenna's. <br />At first I thought the book would be like a murder mystery. The reader would unravel the hows and whys while reading the book. It is not that kind of book at all. It is an honest exploration of the feelings and problems that the survivors of such a horrible event would go through. He does a beautiful job of this, starting by referring to Mom in present or future tense during the time period that Jenna and Jeremy know it is true, but don't believe it.  Each character travelled their own way through grief, and rebuilt a sense of family for themselves on their own. The sense of being cut off from piers when a loved one dies was very real, and having lost both my parents, very true. Although my parents died natural deaths, the feelings were the same. <br />And yes, this book does work because of Lester's restraint. He does not sensationalize at all, and that is what leaves room in the novel for Jeremy and Jenna to solve their own problems and grow through them. <br />The subject matter isn't for everyone, but it is definitely a worthwhile book.	2003-10-06
US	41102048	R3LM7NQYVCR2B1	0064407446	969831101	Echo	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Parental concern	Ok, I'll admit I'm an adult who reads at least as many Children & YA books as adult books. Reading the reviews here, it is sometimes hard for me to tell which reviews are written by adults and which by young adults. I picked up this book because it is recommended on my library's website. It is recommended both by the librarians and by many young adult readers. So, I figured this book was a good one for anyone studying writing to look at, which it is. Then I read these reviews to see what elements of the book appealed to people. <br />Obviously the unique voice, the seductive 1st person narrative alternated with fantastical 3rd person narrative, is one of the book's charms. Many people identify with Echo and her lost and lonely feelings. They identify with her because she isn't perfect. But some of the parents who have at least read the start of the book are appalled at the sex, drugs and violence. Flame me here, but I don't fully understand why. Unfortunately s,d&v are a part of our society.  Block portrays Echo as self-destructive. She has anorexia. What can be more self-destructive than that? Echo finds s,d&v because she is feeling self-destructive. Block doesn't condone it. And in the end Echo walks away from it and as she finds her lover, she thinks that she couldn't find someone to love before, because she didn't love herself. If you were a person struggling through self-doubt and anger, wouldn't this book make you feel less alone? Wouldn't it give you hope? <br />So, to the parents, is it more important to shelter young adults from s,d&v (a daunting task) or to let them develop their own judgement.  Yes Echo is at times offensive, but it may help some get through the quagmire of life. My theory, which of course may be wrong, is that a person not yet able to emotionally handle such subjects would put this book down pretty quickly. <br />As for the rating, I only gave it a 3 because of the scene/point of view shifts several other people have mentioned. I found them confusing until I was into the book partly because her own life and her parent's lives were complementary. I like the format used, which is very like a bunch of short stories strung together, but I think Block could have made some revisions early in the book that would have made the scene shifts less confusing/disturbing.	2003-09-11
US	41102048	R1CZOZL0CQ4WGX	0871569566	668016688	Bird Brains: The Intelligence of Crows, Ravens, Magpies, and Jays	Books	4	84	85	N	N	Depends on what you are looking for	This book has some interesting anecdotes on Crows, Ravens &amp; Jays, and it does also describe much of the day to day life of these birds. The book is more than 50% full page photographs, and the photography is excellent. There are a few Brandenburg photos that have the Brandenburg touch, an animal filmed intimately close. But if you are trying to do reseach on animal intelligence, this book is too shallow for that. It glosses over some reseach and incidents that I've read about more thouroughly in other sources. I wanted to say but but there's more... or yes but that has only been observed in two locations. If you are looking for photography and some general knowledge on corvids, this is the book. If you are researching animal intelligence, try George Page  for a solid introduction. I think the title is Animal Minds. And if you already know quite a bit about this subject, you know where to look better than I do.	2003-06-05
US	41102048	R2GJLFIHK70A3Q	0192834622	532332380	The Tenant of Wildfell Hall (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic Book	What were these three sisters doing to produce such great books in such short lives?  This book is ahead of its time, and a page turner.  Yes, a Victorian page turner. Everytime I thought the problem was about as bad as it could get and Anne Bronte would start wrapping it up, it got worse.  For those who have read it, I've got to say Frederick Lawrence is far too forgiving...  <BR>As for the writing, I had to admire how Anne Bronte let the reader in on things that went right over the heads of her narrators.  This book is still fresh and well worth the time.	2002-04-08
US	41102048	R14DPAC12T053Y	0486292649	130880528	A Pair of Silk Stockings and Other Short Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Bargain	The first story alone was worth the [money] I paid for this book.  It was a sad, gentle social commentary (or maybe not so gentle) that seems very much like the work of someone who would raise so much public outcry (for \\"The Awakening\\") that she would never be published again.  One or two of the stories struck me as being bitter, but the others were up to her current day reputation.  Many of the stories hinge on careful character studies of Acadians, the Acadians being descendants of French families relocated to the United States when Canada become unarguably British.  The French dialect used in some of the stories only made the collection richer, in my mind.  It would have seemed false to have these people speaking proper English.  On reading the other reviews, I tend to agree that it might be a good idea to skip this book and buy Bayou Folk or another more thorough collection.  If you know you love Kate Chopin's writing, do that.  Otherwise, this collection is a good introduction although it can't beat \\"The Awakening.\\"	2002-04-08
US	41102048	R32Y83GYHDILMK	0375704027	339664983	Norwegian Wood	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Well written	If someone had tried to tell me what this book was &quot;about&quot; I never would have read it.  And don't ask me what it is about. It is not a love story. It is not simply a story about the hole loved ones leave when they are gone. It is not a story about mental illness, not really anyway. It is incredibly well written, riveting, funny sad and worth the time.	2002-03-18
US	41102048	R35W97954WF2XX	0060927801	884507695	The Dog Who Rescues Cats: True Story of Ginny, The	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dog who rescues Humans	This isn't the best written, most riveting book; however it tells an important story.  Yes it is about a dog who rescues cats, but really it is a about a human and a dog who rescued a human.  The author is clearly a proud man who would not want to talk much about his disability or poverty now, but to me, how his friend and his animals helped him adjust to his disability is the story.  Ginny brought him through thinking &quot;I can't do that. I'm disabled&quot; to &quot;How do I do that despite my disability.&quot;  The dog also lead him to find a calling, a reason to live.  Now that is not a little story.	2002-03-08
US	41102048	RA9BCGI8ERH5E	1888047054	464329530	Culture Clash: A New Way Of Understanding The Relationship Between Humans And Domestic Dogs	Books	5	17	20	N	N	It 's all chew toys	Although this book was not well published - a few typos, unattractive type treatment -, it was filled with very good background information for any dog owner.  She starts with an attack on the &quot;Lassie&quot; image of dogs, claiming that unreal expectations lead to bad training methods.  She discusses how dogs learn in a very funny, down to earth manner and includes good information such as the proper rules to make tug of war a great game for your dog.  But if you are looking for how to train sit, down, heel you will want to look at another book in addition to this one.  This book gives the background philosophy needed to be a good trainer, but not the mechanics of training.  Also if you are not a dedicated dog owner, expect to be scolded by this book!  After reading about the importance of socialization, I felt so guilty that I took the puppy to a highly populated lake for a walk on a very very cold night.  Puppy loved it, but I froze.	2002-02-12
US	41102048	R2RCULA07B771K	0895778394	593922838	The Perfect Puppy : How to Raise a Well-Behaved Dog	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good book to add to your puppy reading	I've read a lot of puppy books lately, and although I would not use this book as a complete overview for the new owner, it did cover a lot of information that is not in the standard puppy books, yet still valuable to know.  Clearly organized with very useful information.	2002-01-28
