US	41125812	R2U301M9VOEHZ7	0807567108	939183851	Queen Anne's Lace	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Uncommonly Lovely Common Wildflower	My first thought is \\"How does someone find a publisher for an entire book on the subject of just one rather common weed?\\" I am glad someone thought it was a good idea because this is a lovely and interesting book.<br />This book is intended for children in grades 3 through 5 but it is also a very good introduction into plant anatomy, sexuality and life cycle that could benefit any amateur gardener who may not have much in the way of science behind his interest in the hobby.<br />The many colored photographs throughout the book are the best part but the informative text may not truly hold the attention of young school children. If you want to inspire a budding botanist this book will be a helpful aid but it should be used in conjunction with hands on experience.<br />The history of the plant's folk name is explained at the beginning of the book. The book concludes with an easy experiment that children can conduct that shows one reason that the Queen Anne's Lace plant is so prolific. I was hoping the book might include more landscape photographs but it only has individual photographs of single flower heads or individual parts of a flower head, leaf, root or stem. It is an easy science book not a coffee table book. I was also hoping there might be some easy craft ideas for kids that use the Queen Anne's Lace flowers (my grandma taught me several) but again, I discovered that this is not part of the scope of this book.<br />I recommend this book but only to someone who is really in love with this uncommonly lovely common plant or someone who wants to teach kids about plant physiology. Elementary school Science teachers will probably get the most out of it, especially if they make it part of a field trip where kids can see the living flowers up close for themselves.	2004-01-09
US	41125812	R5LMT87H6P8P6	0553581279	51302526	The Silver Metal Lover	Books	2	10	36	N	N	Delete File	This story takes place on a reconstructed Earth of the future, following the devastations of a meteor hit. People are either ridiculously rich or unemployed impoverished fringe folk who have been displaced by a multitude of robotic workers. I'm not sure how the rich got richer but this is a sort of not too brave new world where babies selected by type are created in test tubes and delivered from artificial wombs to parents kept eternally young by Rejuvinex. Police keep everyone who's rich safe from everyone who's poor by monitoring them electronically. Kind of like the jail bracelet concept in reverse. The 16 year old protagonist, Jane, is a totally sheltered, spoiled rich girl whose growth is stunted by living in the shadow of her rich, arrogant and self-absorbed globe-trotting mother.  Their relationship is more like that of French Poodle owner and pup than it is like mother and daughter. Jane's friends, aren't really friends at all since they are also self-absorbed, spoiled, jaded rich kids who use each other as backdrops to their dramas. One of the things I detested the most about this book is the long pages of descriptions about Jane's friends and their vapid, perverse lifestyles. In a word, BORING. The plot is good though it's been done before a gazillion times with the likes of Star Trek's Data and in D.A.R.Y.L. and in Robin Williams' portryal of Milennium Man and many other AI contributions to the sci-fi literary grab-bag.  Jane meets this sophisticated robot model that is capable of pretty much any kind of work including the arts and love-making. He looks and feels like a human except for the faint silver tinge to his skin. No problem, lots of human in this world like to paint their skin silver, too. No one can really tell that he's a robot. Jane falls in love with him and has to give up every bit of her rich girl world if she wants to be with him. They discover and uncover each other's humanity but it ends bad for Robo-honey. Never fear, the trite ending is a surprise.  Why wasn't I surprised? Jane is 16 years old and maybe this book will appeal to YA readers because it delves into the areas of first love, and finding one's self, personal discovery, loss and independence and all that jazz in a way that is at least, imaginative. I didn't enjoy it. I thought the talented Tanith Lee dropped the ball here with characters, dialogue, credibility...pretty much everything. With a library of over 4,000 books, I still couldn't find permanent room on my shelves for this one. It should be disassembled like an annoying robot.s a surprise.  Why wasn't I surprised? Jane is 16 years old and maybe this book will appeal to YA readers because it delves into the areas of first love, and finding one's self, personal discovery, loss and independence and all that jazz in a way that is at least, imaginative. I didn't enjoy it. I thought the talented Tanith Lee dropped the ball here with characters, dialogue, credibility...pretty much everything. With a library of over 4,000 books, I still couldn't find permanent room on my shelves for this one. It should be disassembled like an annoying robot.	2003-05-28
US	41125812	R3OUPS03NPK688	0880013516	390390868	The Essential Haiku: Versions of Basho, Buson, & Issa (Essential Poets)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Three Masters in the Haiku Tradition	This book features versions of about one hundred poems by each of three masters in haiku tradition, Matsuo Basho (1644-1694), Yosa Buson (1716-1783), and Kobayashi Issa (1763-1827). The introduction tells us that according to Japanese literary criticism, these three men represent three types of the poet. Basho is seen as the ascetic and seeker, Buson the artist, and Issa the humanist. The differences in each poet's style can be seen at a glance. This book contains interesting short biographies of each of the men as well as some of their prose and notes on the poems. There are a few interesting black and white illustrations throughout the book including some by Yosa Buson himself. The introduction by Robert Hass is a superb introduction to haiku itself.<br />  These beautiful three line poems, located in Nature with their implied Buddhist reflection are each a meditation, a centering, and a crystalline moment of realization. Reading them has a way of bringing about calm and peace within the reader. The symbolism of the seasons and the Japanese habit of mind blend together in these poems to create an alchemy of reflection that is unsurpassed in literature. The exquisite skill of these three masters make their subject matter seem completely organic, without artifice. Each poem contains a unique &quot;Ah!&quot; experience because they pierce directly to the soul, activating the human capacity for seeing with a still mind and an observing heart.<br />  If you are new to haiku this is a wonderful compendium of the best of the genre. If you are already a lover of haiku this book is a delightfully compact, essential package, a real treasure you are sure to enjoy again and again.	2003-04-07
US	41125812	R1CBTM66XRUIIX	0805072381	765445427	Old Mother West Wind	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Michael Hague AND Thornton W. Burgess...What a Treat!	\\"All the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were hurrying over the Green Meadows. Some flew this way and some ran that way and some danced the other way. You see, Jerry Muskrat had asked them to carry his invitations to a party at the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool.\\" Originally published in 1910, the Old Mother West Wind Stories of Thornton W. Burgess are brimming with just this type of endearing and whimsical imagery. They are quaint but clever, sensitive and fun-filled. This lovely book contains sixteen stories featuring many charming woodland characters such as Tommy Trout, Mrs. Redwing, the Willful Little Breeze, Billy Mink, and Little Joe Otter. Burgess was a dedicated conservationist and these stories were intended to instill an abiding love of Nature and wildlife in small children. They do a wonderful job of it and Burgess would be delighted, as I am, in this edition's beautiful illustrations that are the work of the talented Michael Hague. The first illustration in the book, featuring Old Mother West Wind in her flowing grey and blue gown and her long flowing hooded cape, is worth the price of the entire book in and of itself. We have come to expect great things from Hague but he outdoes himself in this book. I'm glad to see these wonderful stories available to another generation of children. Their gentle pastoral nature really is timeless and the less our world sees of natural habitat and woodland creatures the more we need this book. Treat yourself and you children to it. It's one of my favorites.	2003-04-05
US	41125812	R1T57J72QYJWUH	0786869461	804179437	Loving Through Heartsongs	Books	5	114	123	N	N	Poet and Peacemaker	Is there anyone who doesn't know about Mattie J.T. Stepanek? He's gotten a lot of press thanks to Oprah and Jimmy Carter, Jerry Lewis and Maya Angelou and a host of others who have been touched by his poetic words, heartfelt messages of love and peace and his beautiful spirit, so filled with courage and hope.<br />Well, I hadn't heard of him before yesterday. If you don't know him, he is a young boy, child of a single mom, and he has a rare form of muscular dystrophy that has already claimed the lives of his three siblings.<br />When I did hear about him, it was with great praise, so I did some investigating. At first all the glowing praises I heard made me a little hesitant to check his work out. Sometimes Oprah just gets to me...yeah, yeah Oprah, I think, everything is sooo wonderful and it's all about spirit and love and joy, joy, joy down in my heart...wish I had a few million bucks...whatever, Oprah. I know, what a bitter, jaded way to think...I admit it...but I do think that way sometimes and I hate for people to tell me how GREAT everything is when I feel otherwise. Thankfully, something made me actually take a look at Mattie J.T. Stepanek's actual work. I was swept away in a river of emotion. I was bowled over by the beauty of his words and the power of his talent. I was deeply touched by his life and his spiritual presence. I actually bought all five of his books and read every one. Some of his poems have a delightful childish humor, some are subtle, some are blunt, some are sweet and some are so sad. All are filled with such light and hope and the deep yearning for peace, understanding and love. All have been written with a deep wish to give to others, to share with others the joy of living. I think Mattie is a Christian but his words speak past religious dogma and into the spirits of everyone, no matter what religion. His words even speak past \\"religion\\" altogether and go directly to spirit and heart. I am sometimes a jaded old sour puss but this boy's words reached me with complete ease and made me feel hopeful...no small job. This book, Loving Through Heartsongs, is his latest and the poems are more mature sounding than in some of the other books, because of course Mattie is becoming more mature, growing up and becoming more complex. His writing skills are sharpening. His meditations and his life experiences are giving more depth to his thoughts. I feel that some of the innocent simplicity of his earliest work is lost in these longer more \\"thoughtful\\" poems. There is a little more temptation on his part to chide and to instruct, but it is barely detectable. His earlier work is more from his heart and I feel that as he grows older he is beginning, as in this book, to rely more and more upon his mind.  I am not saying that is a bad thing, but it does seem, to me, to be happening gradually. This is a beautiful, moving and uplifting book. I think most anyone will be able to take a great deal of good from it. I do encourage everyone to check out Mattie's other books, too. His message to humanity is enormously important and his skill as a writer is a rare thrill.reached me with complete ease and made me feel hopeful...no small job. This book, Loving Through Heartsongs, is his latest and the poems are more mature sounding than in some of the other books, because of course Mattie is becoming more mature, growing up and becoming more complex. His writing skills are sharpening. His meditations and his life experiences are giving more depth to his thoughts. I feel that some of the innocent simplicity of his earliest work is lost in these longer more \\"thoughtful\\" poems. There is a little more temptation on his part to chide and to instruct, but it is barely detectable. His earlier work is more from his heart and I feel that as he grows older he is beginning, as in this book, to rely more and more upon his mind.  I am not saying that is a bad thing, but it does seem, to me, to be happening gradually. This is a beautiful, moving and uplifting book. I think most anyone will be able to take a great deal of good from it. I do encourage everyone to check out Mattie's other books, too. His message to humanity is enormously important and his skill as a writer is a rare thrill.	2003-04-03
US	41125812	R13OPOR9TB8WQ0	0375810773	572108439	The Little Family (Lois Lenski Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Little Charmer of a Bygone Day	If you only read story books that are politically correct, you may not enjoy this one. It was written in 1932 and by today's standard is very limited in the gender roles it portrays. Having said that, let me hasten to add that I LOVE this book and all of the similar titles by the talented Lois Lenski. This is a quaint little book with very simple, colorful drawings. The artwork has a satisfying peaceful, gentle nature with a subtle magic of motion and activity that is almost baffling coming from such simplicity. It describes the daily lives of the Little Family that consists of Mr. and Mrs. Little and their children, Tommy and Sally. We see their house and follow them in their activities on a simple average day. They do their housework, yardwork, marketing, baking, gardening and they also go for a drive together and have a picnic. The children feed the chickens, play with a ball and read a book. The family spends loving time together in their living room in the evening. This book is very simple, no big exciting plot, but endearing and relaxing and actually...quite inspiring. Little children will enjoy it. It's quiet tone makes it a perfect book for a bedtime story. Check out all of the wonderful titles by Lois Lenski. Each one is a delight.	2003-04-02
US	41125812	R3372R07GPVTZM	0375810730	107281090	The Little Auto (Lois Lenski Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Shiny Red Convertible...Some Things Never Change!	This endearing yet simple story book written by the talented Lois Lenski features her signature illustrations and tells the tale of Mr. Small and his pride and joy, the little auto. Written in 1934 this book follows Mr. Small in his jaunty suit, bow tie and derby hat as he cruises around town in his shiny red convertible. The other traffic on the road includes a horse and buggy, a trolley car, and some startled chickens and ducks. We tool along down Main Street with Mr. Small, put the top up when it rains, fix a flat tire, and pay a visit to the filling station. Mr. Small and his little auto are utterly charming and the way this book captures the gentle atmosphere of a bygone day warms the heart. Kids will love it and so will the folks who read to them. Lois Lenski's picture books are never long on plot or action, but they are delightfully colorful and whimsical. Her books, no matter their publication date, seem to capture human nature that runs true throughout the stream of time. Look what she says about a man and his car. \\"Mr. Small has a little Auto. It is red and shiny. He likes to look at it.\\" Travel around your own town on a sunny Saturday morning...you'll see Mr. Small is alive and well. Enjoy this book and all of Lois Lenski's other charmers.	2003-04-02
US	41125812	R1WBTFS5OPTGOC	0689717512	424090543	Baby Island	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Fantasy Island, but Lots of Fun	This fun book comes from Carol Ryrie Brink, the author who brought us Caddie Woodlawn, and while shorter and not quite up to the standards set by that great book, is one that kids are sure to enjoy.<br />  Written in 1937 it tells the tale of two girls, 12 year old Mary and her younger sister Jean, who rescue four babies and end up floating alone with them in a lifeboat in the middle of the ocean when the steamliner they are sailing on begins to sink. The quick thinking and good sense of the girls pulls them through when they run aground on a small deserted tropical island. This book was written in a \\"kinder, gentler\\" time than our own and thank goodness because the children do not experience anything traumatic or terribly frightening. They mostly exhibit plucky courage and try to do things properly with their little charges, one infant and three active toddlers. There is plenty of humor and adventure in the book, but not much realism. They easily find clean water, food and shelter, but this isn't a reality show it's a children's fantasy. The childcare methods have changed somewhat over the years and that makes the story seem rather quaint, but I found that all the more endearing. The girls insist upon having a church service every Sunday even though that only consists of singing hymns and reciting the 23rd Psalm, the only Bible passage they know by heart. Again, this is quaint but interesting and sweet. I think most modern day children will love the story and enjoy imagining what they would do under similar circumstances. This is not much like other \\"deserted island\\" stories such as Swiss Family Robinson, Robinson Crusoe or even Island of the Blue Dolphins in terms of action, but it is similar to those in its ability to transport and to kindle the imagination. Check it out.	2003-03-28
US	41125812	R2LNGLFBPXZS8I	157432246X	309574480	Collector's Encyclopedia of Depression Glass	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Don't Internet Shop for Depression Glass Without the Book	Gene Florence's many pictorial guides to collectible antique glass are all wonderful and this beautiful fifteenth edition on Depression Glass is no exception. It contains hundreds of pieces of Depression Glass with details on the glass companies that made them, the history, the availability, individual pieces, price ranges, colors, patterns, etc. The photographs are all clear and very useful for identification purposes. Some vintage photos of advertisements show a few of the collections in their entirety.<br />  This book is essential if you are planning to start collecting Depression Glass because you can see what pieces were produced and you can learn how feasible it will be to collect complete sets. There is valuable information about reproductions. Glass collecting today is often done over the Internet and some dealers sell Depression Glass with little knowledge of the particular patterns, their dimensions, or their distinctive qualities. It is easy to get similar looking pictures confused and end up with pieces that do not belong in your collection. Sometimes descriptions are in complete error.  This book is an extremely helpful, professional guide that can prevent costly mistakes. It is also just plain fun to read up on the old historical pieces, such wonderful Americana art. Warning: You may get bitten by the Depression Glass bug just by paging through this lovely book. Have fun at the garage sales, antique stores and malls, antique shows, and auctions, but don't leave home without it! Check out Gene Florence's other great books, too. Another personal favorite of mine is Collectible Glassware from the 40s, 50s, 60s.	2003-03-26
US	41125812	R22VW08JORNQTY	0152164278	853111774	Behind Rebel Lines: The Incredible Story of Emma Edmonds, Civil War Spy	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Girl Power	This is a very quick read even for the 9-12 year age group it is intended for. Never-the-less, it is a very exciting and interesting bit of true Civil War drama. It is the story of Sarah Emma Edmonds, or Emma Edmonds as she was known, a young woman, born in Canada, who, disguised as a man, became a solider, battlefield nurse, spy and detective for the Union army. Emma was sworn into the Union army as Private Franklin Thompson and served bravely and cunningly in many dangerous missions and in many disguises. She was also a devoted and skilled battlefield nurse and tended the wounded of both the Union and the Confederacy with compassion. Her career as a male soldier ended at Vicksburg when she became so ill with malaria that she had to go AWOL in order to escape detection as a female. Her adventures did not stop there. This book is sure to grab the interest of anyone who picks it up. It is not a great work of writing skill, being very episodic with little to link together the various elements of Emma's courageous life. The dialogue is fabricated, of course, and rather stilted, but the facts here are accurate and taken from Emma's memoirs and other historical documents. At least 400 women disguised as men fought for the North during the Civil War, but Emma's tale of espionage is perhaps the most thrilling. I highly recommend this book to young people as a wonderful introduction to the Civil War. Getting to know the people who fought this tragic and bloody war is a wonderful way to understand this astonishing chapter of American history. This book is definitely a page turner and so all the better for keeping interest high and fostering curiosity and discovery. Don't miss it.	2003-03-22
US	41125812	R18FCUH42MLG7H	061825627X	498874804	Mike Mulligan and More: Four Classic Stories by Virginia Lee Burton	Books	5	149	151	N	N	More IS More	So many treasury compilations are not as good as the original stories they include. Many times when a treasury is published the illustrations are badly cropped or omitted, or scrunched onto a page with text. Sometimes the text is abridged. Fortunately for us, this is not the case in this wonderful treasury of four of the gifted Virgina Lee Burton's best loved stories. All four stories are presented in their entirety, in full sized format just like the original books. Each story can be read individually and enjoyed as if it is a separate book. Nothing has been left out or crowded together. This treasury of classics includes Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, published in 1939, The Little House, published in 1942, Katy and the Big Snow, published in 1943, and Maybelle the Cable Car, published in 1952. All of Burton's beloved books have charming, colorful illustrations and storylines that honor a simple way of life. They celebrate characters who adapt to changes with determination and a positive attitude without being preachy. They are fun-filled and interesting to children.<br />  The book also contains a short but enlightening biography of Virgina Lee Burton.<br />  This is definitely a five star book and deserves to be a part of every child's storytime. Don't miss it!	2003-03-20
US	41125812	R3QDCUC6KS8JJP	0375823735	29819923	Bilbo's Last Song	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Beautiful, Simple, Sweet and Elegant	This is a lovely little keepsake book with colorful illustrations highlighting many scenes from The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit. The paper is high quality, the printing and inks are excellent, and there are lovely silver accents on the cover. Pauline Baynes, a long-time friend of Professor Tolkien, may be better known as the illustrator of C.S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia. In this work which is the song written by Bilbo at the time of his parting to go to the Grey Havens and thence to take ship for the Undying Lands, the illustrations are graceful and filled with heart-felt reminiscence. They are detailed and emotional and do perfect justice to Bilbo's thoughts as he looks back upon a life filled with adventures, old friends and the riches of a life well lived. The little song is short and very touching and captures the swirl of feelings as he leaves Middle-Earth and embarks upon his journey to his final home among the Elves and the Ring Bearers.<br /> This strikes me as a work that would be lovely to read at the passing of a loved one for it captures the longing to set forth as well as the sadness of the leaving.<br /> It is a must for any Tolkien fan and certainly for any fans of the talented Pauline Baynes. Bilbo would be well pleased.	2003-01-10
US	41125812	R3QWNLPL3LVYZ5	0486418588	740874119	Flora's Feast: A Fairy's Festival of Flowers	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Year Long Parade of Flowers	This beautiful book, so affordable in its paperback edition is the unabridged republication of Flora's Feast: A Masque of Flowers, first published in 1889. It contains 40 color illustrations by the English illustrator and painter Walter Crane (1845-1915). Crane was a leading designer of Art Nouveau textiles and wallpaper and his Art Nouveau stylings are seen in these whimsical and romantic illustrations. Children as well as adults will enjoy this beautiful book which opens with Flora, the Goddess of Flowers waking the flowers from their slumber. &quot;The sullen winter nearly spent, Queen Flora to her garden went, To call the flowers from their long sleep, The year's glad festivals to keep.&quot;  Attired in Greek-styled drapes, sandals, tunics, and gowns the various flowers, beginning with the earliest crocuses and snowdrops, begin a parade across the pages of this book that proceeds through the seasons from summer through autumn and finally back to winter.  Each season's favorite flowers are accompanied by quaint poetic descriptions written by Crane and bear the look of familiar blossoms incorporated into their costumes.  We are fortunate indeed to have this rare treat available to us once again. Don't miss it.	2003-01-10
US	41125812	R15SZT0BI0P7IQ	0847824144	366396268	Sailors' Valentines	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Rare and Amazing and Beautiful...Not Just For Experts	This is SUCH a cool book and one that it about a very rare and beautiful subject...sailors' valentines. Sailors' Valentines are a rare and unique artform from the mid-1800s. Perhaps made by sailors as tokens of love for wives, mothers and  girlfriends and with ample evidence to support this theory, the valentines also appear to have been made for sale in Barbados, a port of call for both American and English ships. They are between 8 and 15 inches across. They are octagonal shaped wooden boxes usually made of Spanish cedar, but sometimes of mahogany.  They are hinged at the side to open as a book would open.  Inside, protected by glass, are incredibly detailed and colorful mosaics made of sea-shells, sometimes with sentiments spelled out, the names of the sailor artists, even in one case an erotic photograph framed by an elaborate mosaic of shells. They are, of course, highly collectable and have fetched prices as high as $35,000 a piece. Antique experts know about them but most of the rest of us have never heard of them and that is a pity.<br />  This incredible book is such a marvel in itself, well crafted, detailed, scholarly and very beautiful. It comes in its own case which is a deep blue fabric covered octagon-shaped hinged box. The book inside is also octagon-shaped and contains the history of these remarkable treasures as well as dozens of actual size photographs in full color of the valentines themselves. There is a chart that identifies the various types of sea-shells that were used to create the valentines. The valentines are displayed on facing pages so it is as though you have actually opened one of the hinged boxes and are looking at an actual valentine as it would appear were you holding it in your own hands.  I think this book will be treasured by art lovers, crafty people, romantic people, as well as by antique collectors and enthusiasts. It would make a really stunning Valentine's Day gift. Don't miss it.	2003-01-06
US	41125812	R1SNYHRNQ33TF6	1583940332	376664559	You Are a Spiritual Being Having a Human Experience	Books	4	81	84	N	N	Wrap Your Head Around This	This is a hard review to write for the same reason that this is a good book to read. What's it all about? How much of it do I buy into? It's a trip. I read and enjoy Bob Frissell's books because as Bob Dylan once said, &quot;I know there's something happening here, but I don't know what it is.&quot; Frissell's books are all brimming over with bizarre information about the &quot;true&quot; nature of the Universe and this one is no different. It talks about sacred geometry, ascended Masters, Christ Consciousness, Martians, Sirians, different dimensions, Bible Codes, the pineal gland, rebirthing, the Fall of Atlantis, the Secret Government, the Greys, Thoth, Ra and the boys from Egypt and Luciferian consciousness among many other juicy topics.<br />  Have you ever tried wrapping your head around the Universe...I mean just the concept of a Uni-verse? Then think about microcosm and macrocosm, about energy and love, about the subtle bodies and different planes of existence. How about &quot;I Am&quot;? OM.  How about co-creating that Universe? Well, if you're reading this review, you probably have. This book, like the two preceding it, Nothing In This Book Is True and Something in This Book Is True, are point blank discussions about many different so-called New Age topics, frankly stated and without a lot of extraneous fluff, and they contain much material that has been delivered to Frissell by an exulted being of an order known as the Melchizedeks, by the name of Drunvalo Melchizedek, himself an interesting author. Basically, it's the lowdown on the evolution of the human race in the grand scheme of the evolution of the planet and the solar system and the Universe itself.  I find it enormously entertaining and thought-provoking and I actually do feel that much of it is true, as embarassing as that would be to admit in many circles within which I travel. I mean it's just so &quot;out there&quot;. But then, I'm a person who, based on my own observations, personally believes that birds can travel inter-dimensionally. Think how tickled I was to read in this book that Bob thinks dolphins can do the same thing! Wow.<br />  In order to become more fully actualized and to help our planet make the shift into higher consciousness Bob recommends some breathing and meditating techniques which I have not tried.  That's the thing, I guess, all this crazy stuff IS just too much for me to really integrate. When I read the fascinating quantum physics parts of his book, I am just zipping along out there in the cosmos and I'm following it and I can see myself as a geometric form of energy, the totality of Being and at the same time but an aspect of Being, shifting my identity from that of a human victim to being a spiritual Master and then I gotta put the book down and watch The Weakest Link on TV.  I guess I'm still just a third dimensional spud, but I love these books. Check this one out.hat birds can travel inter-dimensionally. Think how tickled I was to read in this book that Bob thinks dolphins can do the same thing! Wow.  <BR>  In order to become more fully actualized and to help our planet make the shift into higher consciousness Bob recommends some breathing and meditating techniques which I have not tried.  That's the thing, I guess, all this crazy stuff IS just too much for me to really integrate. When I read the fascinating quantum physics parts of his book, I am just zipping along out there in the cosmos and I'm following it and I can see myself as a geometric form of energy, the totality of Being and at the same time but an aspect of Being, shifting my identity from that of a human victim to being a spiritual Master and then I gotta put the book down and watch The Weakest Link on TV.  I guess I'm still just a third dimensional spud, but I love these books. Check this one out.	2003-01-04
US	41125812	R36H2W41ED2WPV	1564146200	595961175	Wicca for Couples: Making Magick Together	Books	3	19	23	N	N	Food for Thought, Needed Criticism, and Some Nonsense	I bought this book because its title led me to believe it was a book that might give my husband and me some ideas and insights for making our experience of our religion deeper. The book turned out to have some interesting food for thought, especially about the books and authors and community leaders of our Craft, that paved the way for many of us to follow and explore. I didn't find it useful as a tool for Wiccan couples. It seemed to focus a lot on finger-pointing and \\"shoulds\\" and shouldn'ts\\". For example, a 6 month celibacy period is recommended at the outset of any courtship.  Four stable marrieds, preferrably the four parents of the bride and groom should give their public consent before permitting the couple to handfast. A Wiccan  should marry someone who is Wiccan. The priestess or priest who officiates at the handfasting shouldn't have any divorces or domestic problems in their past because like attracts like. And so on. This book was written by a man who repeatedly mentions in the text that he is not part of a \\"couple\\" but would like to be.<br />  Much of what he says in the book about the way The Craft has become trivilized and diluted I would agree with. Its trendiness and its treatment by current publishers as a fad do draw people to it that are not and never will be serious about it.  However, many who are attracted to its sense of theatre and who at first seem to be focused only on the outer trappings of costume and romanticism are attracted to these things because they are creative, independent, sensitive and romantic souls who have not found their way in mainstream religions. To constantly put these searchers down and to use the petty names like newbies or, as this author does, \\"Rubs\\" meaning they rub him the wrong way, is arrogant and divisive and immature. This book brings up many things to think about and details some valid criticisms but I think it was less \\"frank\\" than it was insensitive in its way of pointing these areas of failure out. Many of the books and authors mentioned and criticized by A.J.Drew were extremely helpful and useful and while times and attitudes have changed since these books were written, they remain as valuable stepping stones along the path that so many of us have travelled. Along with the should and shouldn'ts in this book there is a lot of blame and a lot of mockery. There is some posturing as though, on one hand, there is one true Wicca and then on the other hand, there are the myriad lame ways that so many impostors do it. He gives us info on how to spot a Wiccan guru, ( guru being a negative term meaning phony, egotist, attention-seeker). These people aren't real clergy. Gurus are people who may have sent out public coven calls. Other times they may be tormented poet-philosophers. They are the outsider, the person no one understands. Their lives are either in neutral or reverse, never improving on their state of being. This author seems to indicate that the people who are fit to be clergy or leaders are the people who have it totally together and in this book's context that would be happily married couples. I think this book would make a wonderful series of debates within our community.  I think it would be great to sit around a fire with some drumming going on steadily in the background and the stars wheeling overhead, maybe some mead being passed from friend to friend, and to share A.J. Drew's thoughts and feelings back and forth for examination and contemplation. I think it would be good for the community to take a close look at ourselves as seen critically by one of us and good for A.J. to get some feedback. I personally feel that some of his views are naive when it comes to couples and extended families, even communities. I think that in a world where so many are searching for a better way in their spiritual expression, that the purist (oh my, that sounds alot like Puritan)approach is just what we do NOT need. This book is interesting, in some ways helpful, because it questions and dissects, but keep in mind, it is not a text book or a witch's bible, and just because it was written by an experienced practioner of the Craft does not mean it's the way you SHOULD do anything. Unless it harms someone, that's up to you.ions and dissects, but keep in mind, it is not a text book or a witch's bible, and just because it was written by an experienced practioner of the Craft does not mean it's the way you SHOULD do anything. Unless it harms someone, that's up to you.	2002-12-28
US	41125812	RW1DBJPIY4P5K	0064472051	75593092	The Hounds of the Morrigan	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Way Too Long but Way Good so That's Way Cool!	Have you ever read a book that is so good, the characters so interesting that you wish it would go on and on? That's how I felt about this book and fortunately for me it DID go on and on! This book is 674 pages long and quite rambling, countless times introducing characters that last for a few pages and are never seen again. The wonderful Irish story-telling powers of Pat O'Shea make this work somehow.  This book is hard to pidgeon-hole as to which readership it was intended for.  It is certainly the longest Young Adult title I've seen. The main characters Pidge and Brigit are only 10 and 5 years old but they act a lot older than that, especialy 5 year old Brigit.  There are more mature concepts about the Old Magics that definitely appeal to the adult reader. There are childish characters like talking earwigs and clairvoyant spiders, and outlandish and silly aspects of the triple goddess, The Morrigan, that like to ride motorcycles and torture their own shadows. This is a mish-mash of styles but once again, somehow it works.  Maybe if the reader has a mish-mash of tastes as I do, the inconsistencies don't matter.  This book is well written and full, I mean brimming, with Irish humor.  It has great characters out of Celtic mythology like the Dagda \\"the Good God\\", the Morrigan, goddess of death and decay, the Great Queen of Phantoms, embodied as three eccentric and wicked women, Queen Maeve's sons, (the original Talking Heads, if you know what I mean) the Seven Maines, and many others.  The plot is the classic good versus evil and spins into motion when 10 year old Pidge discovers a tattered old manuscript in a second hand book shop. The book causes him to accidentally release the Olc Glas, an evil serpent and that in turn causes the race to be on! The Morrigan wants the powers of Olc Glas so that she will have full control of evil and vastly multiply her own evil powers.  The Dagda wants Pidge and Brigit to find magical bloodstones that will thwart this awful scheme.  In order to get the stones Pidge and Brigit go on a complicated, long and magical quest with many a twist and turn.  They are pursued by the hounds of the Morrigan, ravening hunters with a keen sense of smell and tracking abilities, and an insatiable hunger for the chase.  All true creatures and friends of the Dagda help the children along their way.  The writing is colorful, whitty, exciting, even scary at times and always thoroughly entertaining.  This book is in a class by itself and should not be missed by any true lover of fantasy, young or old.In order to get the stones Pidge and Brigit go on a complicated, long and magical quest with many a twist and turn.  They are pursued by the hounds of the Morrigan, ravening hunters with a keen sense of smell and tracking abilities, and an insatiable hunger for the chase.  All true creatures and friends of the Dagda help the children along their way.  The writing is colorful, whitty, exciting, even scary at times and always thoroughly entertaining.  This book is in a class by itself and should not be missed by any true lover of fantasy, young or old.	2002-12-03
US	41125812	R1JK3L40ZQY6OY	0763614130	293916420	Fairie-ality: The Fashion Collection from the House of Ellwand	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Haute Couture of the Fairy Realm	If you want to know who's burning up the runways with the season's haute couture, look no further! Enjoy this detailed catalogue of The Fashion Collection known as Fairie-ality from the innovative and expressive House of Ellwand, designer to the Folk, par excellence.<br />  I would have to say this is the most beautiful book I've seen in years and that it is one of my favorite books in my entire library, if not THE favorite. It is an elegant, beautifully crafted coffee table volume in a gold hard cover edition. It is delightfully witty and captures the fashion world's nuances and idosyncracies in good fun and high style. Whimsical water color sketches of a type from fashion's heyday in Vogue Magazine introduce the various themes and creations while full dazzling color photographs present exquisitely detailed and meticulously handcrafted high fashion of the fairy realm. The commentary is breezy and bright and oh, so, in the know! Charming inserts such as a mix and match catalogue, invitations, and advance notices are sprinkled throughout the book.  The artistry is unparalleled and uses the finest of natural materials, including feathers, seeds, and myriad examples of the exotic floral and other botanical resources joined with a master's eye for flair, movement, and color. Enjoy eclectic designs filled with flash from shoes to hats and everything in between. Not only are you invited into this exclusive world of fashion but you are made privy to the parties, the cotillions, moonbeam swims, firefly hunting, midnight dancing and all of the biggest names in fairy society. Fashions for ladies and gentlemen grace these pages as do fashions for the entire wedding party from the flower girl to the bride.  As the wedding fashions featured in this collection indicate, it is a very chic bride who will walk the bridal runway on the arm of her proud father this season. There is so much detail here and so much witty humor that this book can be enjoyed for hours upon hours and over and over again with each foray seeming to present new delicacies of fashion delight. The descriptions for the designs are each more breath-taking than the one before as evidenced by this commentary for the astonishing Maid of Honor dress: \\"Silky crow feathers and a single green parrot feather gather in layers, creating the touch-me velveteen look of the skirt - spellbinding.  The bodice and straps are lily leaves; the overbodice, a whispering tracery of skeleton leaf. Sumptuous.\\"<br />  This book is a true work of art from begining to end and I can't think of a single person that wouldn't at least admire it's detail and perfection of execution. Fairie friends will, of course, be enraptured by it. Any creative, artistic, whimsical, young at heart, fashion conscious, costume or dress-up aficionado will treasure it. Get yourself a copy and give several away.  It's the pick of the crop. Tre chic!nd over again with each foray seeming to present new delicacies of fashion delight. The descriptions for the designs are each more breath-taking than the one before as evidenced by this commentary for the astonishing Maid of Honor dress: \\"Silky crow feathers and a single green parrot feather gather in layers, creating the touch-me velveteen look of the skirt - spellbinding.  The bodice and straps are lily leaves; the overbodice, a whispering tracery of skeleton leaf. Sumptuous.\\"<BR>  This book is a true work of art from begining to end and I can't think of a single person that wouldn't at least admire it's detail and perfection of execution. Fairie friends will, of course, be enraptured by it. Any creative, artistic, whimsical, young at heart, fashion conscious, costume or dress-up aficionado will treasure it. Get yourself a copy and give several away.  It's the pick of the crop. Tre chic!	2002-11-27
US	41125812	R3NINUOHIFW2QE	0060286903	308263499	Mrs. Biddlebox (GOLDEN KITE AWARDS (AWARDS))	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Seize the Day...and Take a Bite!	In author Linda Smith's two year battle with cancer she may have learned more than her fair share about \\"waking up on the wrong side of the bunk\\" but she also learned about how to use her talents to deal with those \\"dreary little funks.\\"  She has given us the delightful story of Mrs. Biddlebox, a very clever and talented witchey lady with a big curly black ponytail who, one day, wakes up in a very dreary funk indeed! Even the singing birds give her a headache. She decides \\"I will cook this rotten morning! I will turn it into cake! I will fire up my oven! I will set the day to bake!\\"  With a wealth of magical know-how Mrs. Biddlebox does exactly that and the results are tasty! Marla Frazee has illustrated the enchanting Mrs. Biddlebox to perfection and helped to create a wonderful picture book filled with humor and whimsy that is guaranteed to cure any dreary funk that might come your way. Enjoy!	2002-11-26
US	41125812	R1GH1VSE20JUZ4	0802775454	919670918	Owly	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Endearing, Inquisitive 2 Yr Old..But This One's No Caldecott	Owly is two years old and he wants to know how high, how deep, how far, how much about EVERYTHING!  His mother patiently helps him to discover the answers to his numerous questions by seeking the facts himself. He goes off to count exactly how many waves there are in the ocean and finds there are so many he can't count them all. Similar experiments yield similar fruit. The endearing story eventually reaffirms his mother's deep love for him as well.  I think this book's message is very sweet and comforting and I think this is a good story.  However, I'm not as excited about the illustrations.  David Wiesner is one of my very favorite illustrators of children's literature and well deserving of the Caldecott Award he recieved for his book called Tuesday. The pictures in this book while sweet are very much on the dull side. Look at the cover picture and that is essentally all you will see for the rest of the book's 16 illustrations. All of the illustrations are very, very similar. We see baby Owly and his mother (cute brown owls) sitting on a black tree branch with a round white moon and round white stars, or yellowish streaks indicating sunrise, or pale greenish blue indicating daylight. We see Owly take flight in two pictures. We see him sitting on the shore in one. We see the two owls cuddling. The colors are all pale washes in the yellow-blue range. Wiesner has given the two owls cute expressions. I would never say that this fine artist has created bad illustrations. Never! But these are dull and take the book from the realm of 5 stars to that of 3. You will never find that this book creates anything but positive memories...but that is only IF it creates a memory at all.	2002-11-26
US	41125812	R1FYW8CGQAIBI3	0395640512	952180784	The Widow's Broom	Books	5	29	29	N	N	One Good Turn Deserves Another	Witches' brooms don't last forever. One day while the Widow Minna Shaw is out in her garden just such a witch's broom finally runs out of flying power and the witch plummets to the ground and lies injured in Minna's garden. Without a second thought the kindly Minna brings the witch inside and after tucking her into a quiet place allows her to rest comfortably while the witch heals herself. After the witch has recovered and magically summoned a ride home, Minna discovers that she has left the old broom behind.  It may not have much in the way of flying power any more but it turns out to have quite a bit of spunk left in it! Nosey neighbors automatically assume that because it is magical it must be evil and they set out to destroy it. Chris Van Allsburg is in peak form in this wonderful book. His writing is so mysterious and evocative yet filled with his characteristic wry humor. The story is sweetly spooky with just the right hint of shadow and a generous sprinkling of mischief.  The illustrations are absolutely perfect. The familiar style of almost sepia toned illustrations are filled with exquisite details and wonderful expressions and activity. The meddlesome neighbors have a Salem flavor to them while the witch seems mysterious and magical. Minna is delightfully understated and open to the changes.  We are treated to a fun-filled Van Allsburg plot change-up at the end. Don't miss this one.  It's great for Halloween or any time. I think it's his best.	2002-11-26
US	41125812	R1O821ICLCAT2C	0064433609	373755920	Three Names	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Little Dog on the Prairie	This is a lovely, lovely book that I hope you will not miss. Before the first page is even turned, this book has a couple of things going for it. It was selected as A Charlotte Zolotow Book and is in fact dedicated to that beloved and talented children's author.  It was written by the Newbery Medal winning author of the beloved and moving Sara, Plain and Tall.  Three Names is the name of a dog who wanders into the life of the author's great grandfather in his youth out on the prairie.  They become the best of friends and the book traces their day to day, seasonal adventures out among the fields of prairie grass and wheat, paintbrush and bluegrass.  The lyrical text transports us back to those days and we are given a clear window on the world of prairie life of a bygone era. Three Names goes to school with great-grandfather every day and in recounting the daily lives of the two friends this book paints a sunfilled picture of simple friendship that makes life all the more enjoyable. Alexander Pertzoff's beautiful watercolors are my favorite part of this wonderful book. Whether he has painted a dark and menacing tornado or the inside of a one room school house festooned with colorful paper chains for Christmas, he captures the ambiance and mood perfectly and transports us there. Three Names, a simple mixed-breed, plain brown dog with two white feet is painted so realistically, his joyful canine spirit captured so faithfully that you have to take a second look to make sure you didn't actually see his expressive tail wagging. Whether you choose it for a nostalgic slice of Americana or for a heart-warming dog story, I think you'll be well pleased.	2002-11-19
US	41125812	RWIWHNTCF8K2W	0399237410	576193709	Jan Brett's Christmas Treasury	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Lavish Treasury	This big, bountiful treasury of Christmas stories by talented author and illustrator Jan Brett brings the full over-sized glory of seven beloved wintry tales together in one colorful book. The best-selling books that are included in this treasury are The Mitten, The Wild Christmas Reindeer, Trouble with Trolls, The Twelve Days of Christmas, The Hat, Christmas Trolls, and The Night Before Christmas. Brett's signature bold details and bright colors bring the Scandinavian traditions and style, typical of her work, magically to life.  Reindeer and big Malamute dogs, mischievous trolls, hedegehogs, and children have adventures in the snowy North that will have you turning the pages all through the winter holidays.  This is indeed a treasury and should not be missed.  The stories are fun and full of action and the illustrations are second to none. This book is a lovely investment destined to be a family tradition that can be passed down through the generations, creating memories as it goes.	2002-11-18
US	41125812	R474KOJR11FYJ	0156569809	529635875	Many Moons	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Innocent Wisdom of Childhood	This delightful Caldecott Medal winner is classic James Thurber and as such is filled with sweet humorous prose with a witty little message. Louis Slobodkin's simple yet evocative ink and water color illustrations help bring the story to life. When a little princess is ill her father, the king, is worried and is willing to get her anything her heart desires if only she will get well. When the princess decides she wants the moon she sets off a chain reaction of worries for the wisemen of the court as well as for the king. All of the best minds of the kingdom are dismayed when they cannot come up with a way to get the moon for the princess.  Their final analysis: IMPOSSIBLE! The court Jester gets to the heart of the problem and with the help of the princess and the wisdom of childhood, not only presents the princess with her heart's desire but can explain why the moon still appears up in the sky.  Don't miss this lovely book. It's a great tucker-inner and is as fun to read aloud as it is to hear it read.	2002-11-18
US	41125812	RA9CNGZY5HUSM	0064434273	874548260	Dear Rebecca, Winter Is Here	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Turning of the Wheel of the Year	This beautiful picture book begins as Rebecca's grandmother sits down to write Rebecca a letter about the changes she sees around her as Winter arrives. Grandmother writes an interesting tale about the Solstices and explains how Winter actually began at Midsummer and how the light actually begins its journey back to fullness in the depths of Winter.  The writing is lyrical and lovely and the illustrations are colorful and lively and filled with details of the natural world. It is a loving, poetical tale rather than a scientific approach to the Soltices, yet it is informative as well as engaging.  Grandmother describes the various wildlife around her home as they experience winter, while tying it in to Rebecca's own experiences. Gradually, page by page, just like the light returning, Grandmother ushers spring back in. This is a gentle, subtle picture book that will get children thinking.	2002-11-18
US	41125812	R1ULW5MRL5JL7H	0152162984	368371668	Castaways in Lilliput	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Big Adventures Come In Small Packages	I'm so happy to see this wonderful book back in print. I would have to say that Children's literature is and always has been my favorite genre and I've read thousands upon thousands of children's books.  When I say this is one of my favorites of all time, I mean it as high praise indeed. My 4th grade teacher read it to our class back in 1962 and I was captivated by it from the first page. Two brothers and a sister, Ralph, Jim, and Peggy, drift too far out to sea when they are rafting off the coast of Australia.  In the darkness of night they do eventually wash up onto a shore...but it is certainly not a familiar shore in any way!  It seems the kids have washed aground in Lilliput, the very land where Gulliver's story unfolded long before.  There have been no other \\"giants\\" in Lilliput since Gulliver's Travels and the Lilliputians are as amazed and unsettled by this event as the children.  Lilliput has continued to change and develop in the years since Gulliver's visit and theirs is a modern world not unlike the one the children have left behind, only much, much smaller. The descriptions are really delightful such as when one of the Lilliputians gives poor Peggy a bedspread to wipe her tears.  The youngest brother finds ways of getting everyone into trouble and causing some hilarious predicaments. This book has lots of action and is such good food for the imagination that it stuck with me for over 40 years and is still as fresh in my mind as the day my teacher read it. Do the kids ever get home to Australia?  Well...wait and see, but don't miss this book, it's the greatest.	2002-11-15
US	41125812	R144CAN6ZF2VCZ	1572811226	842363020	Tiny Universal Waite Tarot	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Itsy Bitsy Tarot Deck	I like miniture things so I love this tiny little deck with cards about the size of a postage stamp ( actually some commemorative stamps are bigger than these cards.) This is a very tiny edition of the Universal Waite deck by Mary Hanson-Roberts which is a more vividly colored version of the famous Rider-Waite deck featuring the artwork of Pamela Coleman Smith. It is mostly useful as a collector's treasure.  It is very faithful in color and detail to the normal size deck. Obviously, the imagery is very small and hard to see, so you would want to familiarize yourself with a larger deck before expecting these to be of any real use in divination. They are so tiny and numerous that it is easy to drop them and they are difficult to handle, but you can get used to them if you really want to do so. They remind me of the little Nanta bags that Strega witches carry with their tiny little magical implements. They are easy to carry in a purse, back-pack, glove-box or pocket and for a reader who is very familair with the symbols this deck is a nice little portable, readily available deck that can come in handy for on the spot, impromptu readings. This deck may be useful depending upon your needs , but it is certainly an endearing little treat.	2002-11-15
US	41125812	R333SDN3ZJLX93	0440408296	232776711	The Fox Went Out on a Chilly Night (Dell Picture Yearling)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Favorite Folksong Becomes a Favorite Book	This Caldecott Honor Book has been a favorite in my family for about 30 years and was a frequently requested story for my four boys as they were growing up. It was illustrated in 1961 by Peter Spier and is based on a Burl Ives arrangement from 1945 of an old folk tune called \\"The Fox.\\" The lyrics make up the lively text. Spier's wonderful line drawings are filled with details, plenty of action and a folksy, down-home world of a bygone era from the turn of the last century. Every other page is in full color with the rest in black and white.  The drawings are so chock full of details that you will enjoy the black and white ones nearly as much as the colored ones.  Small town life and a rustic farm homestead come to life in these pages as the fox goes out on a chilly night to find supper for his hungry children.  The pictures are informative and interesting and funny.  There is so much flavor in this book that you'll want to share it with the kids again and again.  There is music at the back of the book for voice, piano and guitar so that you can sing along and teach the kids to join in. All seven verses are included.  I still sing this song on road trips and every one of my grown children remembers the words. It's a treasure.	2002-11-15
US	41125812	R1ARIHLJ5LNON1	0688411614	541608041	White Snow, Bright Snow	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A Winter Wonderland from a Bygone Era	This classic book published in 1947 wraps me in a soft fuzzy blanket of nostalgia and makes me crave the good ol' days of clean white snow and sledding, rubber boots and all the neighborhood children playing together in the huge drifts.  It takes me back to being snowed-in, warm fire in the fireplace, hot cocoa and the Postman whose name I knew bringing armloads of Christmas cards. The world depicted in this book does not include the sound of a snow-blower or a snow-mobile.  It does not have Doppler radar to let me know it's going to snow. In this book we rely upon the ache in a woman's big toe and the fact that a farmer says it smells like snow. The rabbits know it and the kids search the grey sky waiting for the first snowflakes.  This book takes us from those first feathery flakes through a really deep snowfall.  We're there as the townspeople shovel themselves out. We're there as the grown-ups contend with the winter snow and the children revel in it. Eventually Spring comes and is greeted with as much gladness as the first snowflakes. The simple four color watercolor illustrations are just wonderful and made me yearn for the days when we didn't hurry from climate controlled houses to climate controlled cars to shopping malls with trees and fountains, for the days when we were on speaking terms with the weather.  The writing in this book is so lyrical and gentle that it makes a perfect bedtime story and it is sure to warm the heart of the adult who's doing the reading. For example, \\"Then without a sound, just when everybody was asleep, the snow stopped, and bright stars filled the night. In the morning a clear blue sky was overhead and blue shadows hid in all the corners.\\"  Share this one.	2002-11-15
US	41125812	R1OFK0HB4IBH2T	039587470X	602764416	Ben's Dream	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A Landmark Story	From the brilliant author and artist, Chris Van Allsburg, who brought us Jumanji and the Polar Express, comes this delightfully surreal story of the unusual help a boy gets when he's studying for his Geography test about landmarks of the world. There is very little text but the characteristic black and white line drawings of Van Allsburg speak volumes.  There are lots of subtle details that make you want to look this book over again and again.  The clever Geography lesson is sure to be remembered forever when learned in this fun-filled fashion. It's a great book with Van Allsburg's usual wry little twist at the end. Don't miss it!	2002-11-12
US	41125812	R3FNFTJW6WLRL7	0618253963	697763125	Zathura	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Better Read the Directions!	At long last, 20 years after Jumanji, Chris Van Allsburg's new picture book, the sequel, Zathura, picks up where we left off, with Walter and Danny Budwing opening the long thin mysterious game box containing the amazing and dangerous game called Jumanji. Much to our surprise the box contains more than just the Jumanji game. Danny and Walter are the kind of kids who don't finish their puzzles and don't read the directions before starting a new game. Just like its predecessor, Zathura takes us on a wild ride at break-neck speed and the boys are just one step away from disaster in every second of this suspenseful tale. Van Allsburg's artwork is his characteristic black and white, surreal, humourous and detailed wizardry. The action is edge-of-the-seat and sure to thrill young readers and story listeners in equal measure with Jumanji's jungle adventure as the brothers try to come to terms with the alien environment of the purple planet Zathura. Don't miss this one. It's out of this world!	2002-11-07
US	41125812	R2RUSK36U9EMQE	0688174140	997091371	The Little Big Book of Christmas	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Christmas Treasure Trove	I love all of Lena Tabori's &quot;Little Big Books&quot;, especially the Valentines and Halloween ones, but this Christmas one is my favorite of all. This book is a &quot;must have&quot; for reading to children during the Yuletide season and is a wonderful (and necessary) indulgence for oneself as well. The illustrations have been gleaned from the charming Victorian art of a bygone day and archive the simple, cozy Christmas traditions for us to recover with the turn of a page. 11 Poems, 13 carols with music, 21 stories, 14 recipes, and over 200 illustrations including 55 full color 19th century images make up this delightful volume. You will see the writing of Robert Frost, Louisa May Alcott, Kenneth Grahame, O. Henry, Ogden Nash, William Shakespeare and many others. Read stories from the Bible and also from the pen of beloved First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt.<br />I think this book would be worth having for the holiday recipes alone. I have tried several and I found each one that I tried delicious.  There are blueprints for a gingerbread house and perfect Snow Icing directions. Don't miss the Vermont Whiskey Cake or Napa Valley Apple Cranberry Crisp.<br />Open up this treasure trove after all the Thanksgiving dishes are done and take a treasure or two out each day.  I think you'll enjoy the whole season that much more as a result!	2002-11-04
US	41125812	R36Z0GGRXMQ7IG	0821220381	869772148	The Box of Stars: A Practical Guide to the Night Sky and to Its Myths and Legends	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Catch a Falling Star and Put It In Your Pocket	I got this as the perfect gift for ME, but it really would make a wonderful gift for just about anybody.  Who hasn't enjoyed gazing up at the diamonds in the sky and who hasn't tried to visualize the constellations?  I love this set. I'm not an astronomer, I just love looking at the stars and I enjoy the myths about the characters that wheel above us in the starry heavens. This set contains a very well written 87 page guide book that is a quality paperback measuring 5 1/2&quot; X 8&quot;, thirty-two cards that are slightly larger, and maps of the hemispheres. The book gives us the myth behind each of the constellations included in the set and also tells us about the major stars in each of the constellations, giving us brief scientific information as well as how to locate the constellation.  It is not a professional astronomer's handbook, but is intended for the novice, and as such is excellent. The cards were invented by &quot;a lady&quot; in 1825 in London and were originally hand-painted. She called them Urania's Mirror. They are an original way to learn to recognize the constellations. Each card is pierced with tiny holes of varying sizes that glitter when held up to the light.  These look like the constellations and give one an image to look for in the night sky.  They are made of sturdy card stock and are colorful and have the abundant charm of 19th century map art. This is a super teaching aid and seems more &quot;hands-on&quot; and intimate than learning strictly from a book. The box that the book and cards come in is very sturdy and will hold up to lots of wear.  It is not like the chintzy material that, for example, a Tarot deck would come in. It has a removable top, separate from the bottom, rather than tuck-in flaps. It is a deep indigo color with gold lettering, very attractive. It is meant to be a quality gift set that will last.	2002-11-04
US	41125812	R2LDJZQFIVDGCJ	0689811624	318883935	A Time to Keep	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Let's Take Our Cue from Tasha Tudor	This delightful book of holidays begins when a little girl asks, \\"Granny, what was it like when Mummy was me?\\" Tasha Tudor goes on to treat us to a year's worth of wonderful holiday traditions from her life in New England. Charming quotations from literature open each month and herbaceous borders surround each page of nostalgic illustrations depicting myriad family celebrations. The borders start with brown and frozen grasses and flowers festooned with icicles that bud on subsequent pages and send out catkins, then blossoms, then flowers and leaves, then fruits, all in splendid realistic detail. The pictures invite one warmly into the fun and rekindle one's own memories. Tasha reminds us of the delicious foods, the antics of the children,  the activities and games, the decorations, the weather, the homespun plays and puppet shows, and the joyful seasonal work. We see big families caught up in living through the wonders of the wheel of the year. Holidays are depicted as the accents to each season, but equally important are the birthdays, the county fairs, cider and maple syrup making time. The people and animals from Tasha Tudor's own experience grace these lovely pages and offer us a glimpse into lives that are filled with love and wonder and appreciation for the beautiful and gentle nuances of living the good life. Simplicity and tradition make the holidays magical and we can all take our cue from this wonderful book and re-examine how we celebrate our traditional holidays. Co-operation and sharing the workload seems to have eliminated stress in these pictures. Creativity and family participation take the place of materialism. Home crafts and delightful cooking and a visible delight in children seem to have banished excessive \\"partying\\" and keep the focus on love, comfort, and gratitude. This book is such a treat and it is virtually guaranteed to help put whatever holidays you celebrate into thoughtful perspective.	2002-11-03
US	41125812	R2H2P4DR2RZOPQ	1572810661	472839166	The Goddess Tarot Deck	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Feminine Deck Filled With Lore and Lovely Art	I love the art of the talented Kris Waldherr, especially her Book of Goddesses that this deck is based upon. This is a wonderful Tarot deck that bases its symbolism on the Rider-Waite deck but it has transformed the symbols into female, Goddess centered mythos. The artwork is very beautiful, detailed and evocative. The cards are larger than a standard deck but it seemed that my hands just got used to the size after a while. The Major Arcana cards each feature a different goddess and include this line-up: Tara, Isis, Sarasvati, Estsanatlehi, Freyja, Juno, Venus, Rhiannon, Athena, Chang O, Lakshmi, Oya, Kuan Yin, Ukemochi, Yemana, Nyai Loro Kidul, The Wawalak, Inanna, Diana, The Zorya, Gwenhwyfar, and Gaia.  As you can see, the deck introduces many of the less familiar goddesses. The small paper pamphlet that accompanies the deck offers a sampling of their lore. A helpful workbook is available separately. The Minor Arcana is divided up into four different cultural stories each corresponding with one of the four elements, water, air, earth and fire. Each card except for the court cards shows a woman as she undergoes the journey symbolized by the suit. The suit of Cups is the Path of Venus, Staves is Freyja, Swords is Isis, and Pentacles is Lakshmi. The court cards show the querant's psyche in different times and areas of life and can also be used to represent different people.<br />I think the deck is very user friendly and I enjoy its different focus. So many women seek out Tarot readings to help them work through and understand the influence of the men in their lives upon their lives.  This deck is so useful for keeping querants focused on their own issues and their own well-being.	2002-10-30
US	41125812	R2DHP1CMQDRA7B	157281196X	742571094	Power of Flowers	Books	5	63	63	N	N	Flowers Combined with Goddesses and Gods: Beautiful Deck	This is an oracle deck of cards, not a Tarot deck. The paper guidebook that accompanies it is very thorough and suggests several ways to use the deck. It gives information on each plant or flowers' Signature (or appearance), its flower essence, its Archetype (Goddess or God), a Healing message and a Blessing. It is a very gentle, almost tender deck filled with beauty. Even if you care nothing at all about oracles, the artwork is so lovely that it is worth appreciating this deck as if it is a miniature art gallery. Stroll through the images in your mind and just relax and enjoy. The colors are very bright, the images are detailed and mystical. This deck has a New Age flavor to it and the following explanation for the use of flowers as an oracle clearly shows this style. &quot;As keepers of the seeds of future manifestations, flowers represent a rainbow bridge to enlightenment, a mirror of tiny mandalas of the Great Womb we call our universe.&quot; The booklet is filled with lovely thoughts such as this but some may find it a bit over the top.  This deck should not be overlooked by pagans because it provides access to a number of different examples of deity. It could be used as a teaching aid in that respect or as a meditation tool.  Its 32 cards provide an effective oracle. It is well worth the price in my opinion. A lovely book by the artist and author, available separately, discusses the same ideas and images.	2002-10-30
US	41125812	R1MA1FSOZCFYB9	0931892791	167544785	Dolphin Divination Cards	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Place to Start	First of all, I want to make sure you understand that this little box of cards comes separately from the divination book that was written about them, called A Guide to the Dolphin Divination Cards. The book was written a few years after the cards were designed. You can use the cards without the book but their use is greatly enhanced if you have the book to consult. Also these cards are VERY simple.  They are small, about the size of the milk-cap pogs that were so popular with school kids a few years back. They are made of a thick paper similar to tag board and there are 102 of them in the deck. On one side there is a pretty picture of three dolphins swimming in a circle with ocean plants and stars swirling around them. It is the same picture on every card. On the reverse side of each card is a different word or phrase such as Relax, Telepathy, Birthing, Swimming between Hope and Fear, etc. These cards can be used as daily affirmations or &quot;fortunes&quot;. They are similar to the little Angel cards that were so common among New Age circles years back. These cards, the guidebook and the concepts are all very New Age and are about happy, happy, joy, joy! There is nothing wrong with that at all, but sometimes I find very New Age things a bit cloying and these can be cloying if not used with the proper state of mind. Creator Nancy Clemens channeled dolphins and got the idea for the cards from the dolphins. What I really like about them is the very simplicity of their nature. They make a wonderful tool for training oneself to be in synch with the unseen, unspoken realms whether of higher spiritual powers or of our own subconscious or unconscious mind. They do not have a lot of cryptic or complex symbolism to learn so one can focus all one's intuitive powers on the simple affirmations and prepare oneself to watch for the unfoldment of the concept within their life. They are good tools for practicing meditation. If used on a regular, disciplined basis they will be a great aid in the growth of one's ability to tap into and follow through with synchronicities.  Almost any type of oracle will do this if you develop good habits with it, but this small and simple deck is portable and easily held in the palm of one hand. Learn to use these and then go where they lead, perhaps to the guidebook's more complex delineations, or to more detailed and sophistictated oracles.at aid in the growth of one's ability to tap into and follow through with synchronicities.  Almost any type of oracle will do this if you develop good habits with it, but this small and simple deck is portable and easily held in the palm of one hand. Learn to use these and then go where they lead, perhaps to the guidebook's more complex delineations, or to more detailed and sophistictated oracles.	2002-10-29
US	41125812	R1MOBCV3SXDUPH	157733017X	345657998	A Guide to the Dolphin Divination Cards: One Hundred and Two Oracular Readings, Inspired by the Dolphins: A Guide for the Use and Personal Interpretation of the Dolphin Divinaiton Cards	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Greatly Enhances the Deck, Sold Separately	This is a very useful guide book for the tiny, pog-like deck of oracle cards called Dolphin Divination cards.  It is sold separately from the cards and was written a couple of years after the cards were designed.  The cards CAN be used without the guide book but they are much easier to use with it. The delineations for each card are thorough and thoughtful.  The cards and this book both encourage the development of the intuition and I consider them an excellent starting place for people who are interested in learning more about the use of oracles such as the runes or Tarot cards. This book is beautifully written and conveys a philosophy of light and joy which is very &quot;New Age&quot;.  Depending upon your own feelings about the New Age movement and way of being, you may appreciate these to one degree or another. No matter what your philosphy, if you consult this book and practice with the simple cards you will hone your ability to recognize synchronicities and guidance from either your higher self, your subconsious mind, or your higher power. If you want to practice, contemplate, meditate, &quot;inner-vestigate&quot;, this book is a useful tool.	2002-10-29
US	41125812	RRAKELLRGT7XY	8170590604	811681109	The Kingdom of the Gods	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Real Fairies	First published in 1952, this book is essential reading for people who are interested in the metaphysics of beings who inhabit the world of nature parallel to our own, otherwise known as fairies, angels, devas, etc. This book is not a nursery story and you will not see the like of Tinkerbell in its pages. The text contains abundant information for adults and the book also contains many colored paintings of nature spirits or devas perceived psychically by the illustrator, Ethelwynne M. Quail. Perelandra and Findhorn communities work with these same beings and like this book owe a great deal to the Theosophical studies of H.P. Blavatsky, C.W. Leadbeater, and Annie Besant. If you are new to the study of fairies as real rather than fanciful beings, this book may seem overly philosopical and ponderous but the graphic descriptions of the devas are truly wonderful and are sure to be enjoyed. After a long life of study and meditation and work in the garden I have seen the truth of these writings in more ways than one. If your childish inner heart still has a yearning for fairies that has not flown with childhood's blush you may find the answer to its inner knowing within the pages of this book. It is interesting and very lovely and might cause you to look at nature's bounty with a keener eye. The writing goes from the highly technical to the poetic as in this description of sylphs or fairies of the Air element. &quot;They are disporting themselves wildly in groups of two or three, travelling at great speed across the sky. There is a certain fierceness in their joy as they call to each other, their cries sounding like the whistling of the wind, reminiscent of the call of the Valkyries in Wagner's opera of that name.&quot;<br />This is a unique book and one that should not be missed by sensitive people who wish to be intimate with the natural world.	2002-10-28
US	41125812	R2DIW8J44ZMQJX	1569064482	944623549	Women of Enchantment 2003 Calendar	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Breathtaking Magical Paintings	This calendar is a treasure that you are sure to enjoy long after the year 2003 has come and gone. It contains twelve exquisite prints, suitable for framing, of the elegant, jewel-like paintings of Kinuko Y. Craft, most of which are enlarged prints of her beloved book covers for various fantasy authors. If you are not familiar with K.Y. Craft's work this will be a splendid introduction and may encourage you to take a look at her own picture books that are filled with her lavish, detailed and enchanting illustrations, all of which are carried on [website]. Included in this calendar you will find the following cover prints that are featured on fantasy book covers by other authors: Biting the Sun by Tanith Lee, Wind in the Stone and Scent of Magic by Andre Norton, A Midsummer Night's Dream (New Folger Library Shakespear), Hounds of the Morrigan by Pat O'Shea, Priestess of Avalon by Marion Zimmer Bradly and Diana L. Paxton, as well as the covers for Patricia McKillip's books Ombria in Shadow, The Tower at Stony Wood, and Winter Rose. Other prints in this calendar include two interior illustrations from her book Cupid and Psyche as well as a print that was a journal cover and a Christmas card.  A small portion of this print called Angel with Lyre is also seen on the cover of Patricia McKillip's Riddle-Master: The Complete Trilogy.<br />Ronnie Sellers Productions, Inc. has done an excellent job of maintaining the integrity of these beautiful works and has given us a wonderful opportunity to enjoy this great artist's work at an affordable price. If you love Baroque-style oppulence and marvelous pagan fantasy worlds you will treasure this calendar as I do.	2002-10-27
US	41125812	R1VGQE0D9F6N8D	0385321716	338098837	Young Lancelot	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bright Introduction	Author Robert D. San Souci has used many excellent sources and deftly compressed them into this brief but colorful introduction to Arthurian legend, in particular the legends surrounding the bravest knight of the Round Table, Lancelot.  The scope of this book takes place prior to Lancelot's relationship with King Arthur and the Round Table.  It focuses on his youth and several of the mystical and magical experiences he encounters as he grows and develops in his knightly skills. The full-page illustrations are absolutely grand and will serve well to ignite youthful interest in these great sagas. Do not assume that because this is a picture book that it is for very young children. The vocabulary is geared more toward 5th, 6th and 7th graders. Don't miss a companion title, Young Guinevere.  It's excellent as well.	2002-10-19
US	41125812	RGNRIEX5304FD	0761302972	21131268	The Winter Solstice	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Shortest Day and the Return of the Light	This lovely picture book is a great over-view of Winter Solstice history, tradition, science and celebration. The illustrations are satisfyingly detailed and brightly colored, many of them double page spreads. The book covers an ancient Scottish family's Winter Solstice experience, shows us an ancient viewpoint featuring Stonehenge, explores anicent Roman, Scandinavian, Celtic, Peruvian, and Native American celebrations. It shares some of the features of modern day Winter Solstice celebrations.  It ties in the celebrations of Christmas and Hanukkah and traces where some of those holiday traditions originated. It includes a brief and easily understood scientific explanation for the Winter Solstice. The book is nicely rounded off with a solstice story from a Cherokee tale of creation. The illustrations feature yew and mistletoe, blazing bonfires, antlered ancients encouraging the return of the Sun, changing seasons, and children celebrating. It is a lively and entertaining book that will enrich anyone's understanding of this special night of the year and will be especially useful to Wiccan and other pagan parents.	2002-10-19
US	41125812	R2PWM9HZOB2MDZ	0805023445	692646472	Bear Hugs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bear Hugs for this Charming Book of Poetry	The talented husband and wife team of Michael and Kathleen Hague have once again created a delightful treasure for the nursery library. This precious little book is just right for a bedtime reading with 9 short poems and 23 colorful and engaging illustrations featuring little ones and their favorite teddy bears and toys. Some pretty stars and moons are sprinkled throughout to add a touch of magic. It is short and sweet and many of the illustrations are full page so it will certainly hold the interest of little ones. It would make a lovely new baby gift.	2002-10-19
US	41125812	RW89QRY411IFG	089919463X	231130953	The Teeny-Tiny Woman	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Big Fun!	If you've ever been to a slumber party you've probably heard someone tell this spooky-fun tale. Illustrator Paul Galdone gives the royal treatment to this classic story of a teeny-tiny woman out on a teeny-tiny walk who finds herself a teeny-tiny bone and thinks of making a teeny-tiny pot of soup for herself. Humour and suspense in generous amounts follow the events that spiral out from her one simple act of bringing the bone home. The silly surprise ending is classic slumber-party fare...eek! This is a good story for around Halloween time due to its bedtime suspense and ghostly plot. Be sure to share this one with a new generation of kids.  It's sure to be loved.	2002-10-19
US	41125812	R3H6CQOHGM2HJ1	0698115929	673573781	The Tomten and the Fox	Books	5	17	18	N	N	More About the Kindly Tomten	This book was originally published in 1966 and maintains all of its original charm.  It is the simple story of the friendly house spirit called the Tomten that keeps watch over a Swedish farm homestead, its animals and people. We have met this Tomten before in another wonderful book by Astrid Lindgren called The Tomten. In this story, which takes place around Christmas time, we find a hungry fox faring out on a cold and snowy winter night in search of food. The illustrations are so beautiful and they really transport you to a cold, quiet winter night with snow crunching underfoot and stars sparkling overhead. The characters of the Tomten and the fox are very engaging and are sure to be well-loved by children. The text is very simple but has a lyrical quality that is the perfect compliment to the homey and comforting artwork.	2002-10-16
US	41125812	R1TQUBCELO8KB	0873418727	281513156	Collecting Little Golden Books: A Collector's Identification and Price Guide	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Golden Books Guide...Pure Gold!	I really enjoyed reading the history of Little Golden Books and Western Publishing that begins this useful and fascinating guidebook.<br />This book covers the numbering system of the Little Golden Books, the changing prices, how to determine editions (more complicated than you'd think), and how to determine value and condition of a book. I shows pictures of each of the Little Golden Book covers and lists them by book number, the new numbering system, Disney titles, and activity titles. The other members of the Golden Book family like Big Little Golden Books, First Little Golden Books, Little Little Golden Books, as well as promotional titles and foreign titles are included.  This guidebook also contains Ding Dong School Books, Eager Reader series, Giant Little Golden Books, and Little Golden records. It includes Elf Books, Wonder Books, Treasure Books and Tell-A-Tale books, too. It tells how to date a book by the spine design and shows back cover designs through the years.<br />  Some people have found the indexing of this book to be awkward but I did not.  I was easily able to find all of the books and information I was looking for. I collect Little Golden Books for my own private use and not for resale and I love this book because it has all the front covers pictured and tells the author and the illustrator. It rekindles the old memories of titles from my childhood that I then search out to share with my nieces and nephews.  I especially love Eloise Wilkins' and Garth Williams'numerous Little Golden Book illustrations and this book helped me to discover so many that I wasn't aware of before.  It comes with me to many, many garage sales and has been helpful in protecting me from highway robbery that some flea market sellers would have liked to commit! The information it contains about value and how to tell what edition a book is has brought many an inflated flea market price down to a reasonable level for me. I also use it to mark off the books and editions that I have in my collection and I make notes in the book about the quality of the copies I have, so I avoid duplication and I know when an upgrade is a good idea for a purchase.  Steve Santi has done a super job of compiling the data on these national treasures and I recommend this book to one and all. This is splendid Americana and is filled with lots of happy memories. You'll like it.ve in my collection and I make notes in the book about the quality of the copies I have, so I avoid duplication and I know when an upgrade is a good idea for a purchase.  Steve Santi has done a super job of compiling the data on these national treasures and I recommend this book to one and all. This is splendid Americana and is filled with lots of happy memories. You'll like it.	2002-10-16
US	41125812	R3R2I9XE0DIKB3	1587171201	550270574	Sleeping Beauty	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Infinite Stars for This Treasure	I am sure it will come as no surprise that K.Y. Craft has created another breath-takingly beautiful picture book. This retelling of the story of Sleeping Beauty, Princess Aurora or Brair Rose by Mahlon F. Craft, the artist's husband, is romantic and magical, with courtly language and all the drama one expects from this marvelous old tale. It is a delightful read. The illustrations truly make the book the treasure that it is and include lovely illuminated text as well as full page and double page spreads throughout. Craft's characteristic eye for detail is everywhere evident as is her flair for decorative flora and fauna, costumes, jewelry and interiors. The angry 13th fairy, snubbed without an invitation to the princess's christening who curses the child is painted with a grand touch of maleficence while the 12th fairy whose magical gift saves the baby's life is uncanny and sparkly with a golden power that eminates from the illustrations. The landscapes have a marvelous Renaissance feel and are brooding and deep and magically enhance the story with a certain wildness. A beautiful Alsatian dog with a fairy collar of light around his neck is a secret guardian in several pictures and I suspect this dog may be a very familair friend to the author and illustrator. This book is truly flawless and is destined to become a beloved heirloom. Don't miss it.	2002-10-16
US	41125812	R2KXAWTSGZK3BL	0679867090	155144254	Moonhorse	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fly Me to the Moon and Let Me Play Among the Stars	This book is perfection!  It is a dreamy and exhilarating combination of beautifully evocative artwork and imaginative, spare, yet poetic text. A little girl rocking on the front porch with her dad one starry summer night wishes on a star and the constellation Pegasus comes to life as a huge white horse with powerful milk-white wings and a flying mane and takes her on an adventure through the constellations. The atmosphere of the darkness, the whispy night clouds, the stars and the stillness completely transports one. The balance between the magical fantasy of the moonhorse and the natural and grounded personality of the child combine in a subtle way to make this fantastic journey happily believable. This book will become a favorite. Don't miss it!	2002-10-13
US	41125812	R6RQN9MZBVSC3	0811824640	181353612	Snow Riders	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Magic of Winter	Every child knows that snow is magical. Remember waking up after snow had fallen during the night and just being able to FEEL that it had snowed without even looking? Remember it's crispy crunch under your boots? Remember how brilliant and flickering the stars were on a cold winter's night with the wind hushing in the pine trees? If you can remember these things this book will happily transport you back to those magical days. If you don't have snow memories then you had better read this book and make some! Children will love this and readily relate to its magical spell because they know all things are possible with snow. The story begins as Matthew sees the first feathery flakes of a snowfall and he and his sister, Molly, speculate about school being cancelled the next morning. Sure enough, a deep blanket of snow falls during the night and school is called off. The creative kids build a pair of snow horses rather than snowmen. (From the gorgeous double spread watercolor paintings you can see how to craft these beauties yourself and there's not any heavy lifting like there is with a tall snowman.) At night, Matthew and Molly slip outside and mount their horses, holding imaginary reins. Much to their delight the horses come to life and take them on an incredible moonlit ride through the snowy wonderland of a moonlit winter landscape. I grew up in Ohio where the artist grew up and where the author currently lives and it is certainly magical the way these two have captured every nuance of a snowy winter, the sounds, silences, smells and textures, the cold and the exhilaration. They both remember childhood so clearly and we find it springing off the pages of this wonderful book, astride two snow white horses with shaggy fetlocks and flying manes and tails.  Share this joyful book with your kids and get out there, if you're lucky enough, and build a couple of snow horses, too!	2002-10-13
US	41125812	R3JBJPNZA27CA4	1558589988	86388562	Wynken, Blynken, & Nod	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Sailing Off to Dreamland	This beautiful classic nursery rhyme by Eugene Field has comforted children off to sleep for generations and has endured as a favorite for good reason.  The lovely, peaceful verse sings to us of a river of crystal light, a sea of dew, twinkling foam, nets of silver and gold, a moon that laughs and a wind that ruffles the waves. The illustrations that Johanna Westerman has supplied are the perfect compliment to this treasured story and are executed in watercolors using mostly sea green, blue and torquoise to create a moonlit vision of dreamland as the three children, Wynken, Blynken and Nod, set sail with their cat in a charming boat shaped like a wooden shoe. This is a soothing and gentle bedtime story and I highly recommend it.	2002-10-13
US	41125812	RGUUNDY3MDJGJ	068982825X	90058030	Halloweena	Books	4	5	5	N	N	May Be Too Subtle For Young Readers	This is a cute book with clever, engaging text and detailed cartoonish illustrations that are full of the madcap antics of witch Hepzibah and Halloweena, her adopted human baby girl. When Hebzibah's sister Zillah drops the baby off on her, she tries everything to raise a respectable witchling and does pretty well.  I liked this book a lot and found most of the humor to be fun and original.  There is one page with severed arms and another where Hepzibah is baking Lady Fingers and (Yuk!) they actually ARE lady fingers.  I could have done without these, but the homelife of Hepzibah and Halloweena is really charming in a wacky, witchy sort of way.  I would say ages 10 and up will enjoy this book's humor.  The text is full of tongue-in-cheek word play.  There's a nice message about accepting people as they are and unconditional love.  The ending is sweet.  I think younger kids will miss some of the subtle humor and there are better Halloween stories for young kids, but for a slightly older readership, it's fresh and funny.	2002-10-06
US	41125812	R2GG6H7G7ZV2P1	0738702749	675641178	The Fairy Ring: An Oracle of the Fairy Folk	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Lovely and Scholarly and Fun	This set containing a quality 248 page soft-cover book and a colorful deck of 60 oracle cards plus 4 spread cards is very unusual and that says a lot in a market as swamped as the current Tarot card market is. From the creators of the Sacred Circle Tarot, The Fairy Ring uses the same type of computer enhanced photographic images of human beings.  They occur in collage-like surroundings featuring fairy mounds and standing stones, forests glades and moonlit moors wearing fairy garb, altered sometimes to give them the oddly shaped bodies and features of the fairies they represent. The set is unusual, in my opinion, because it provides a much better than usual atmosphere and even some written suggestions for using these beautiful cards for deep meditation. It unfolds like guided meditation does, the images on the cards being wonderful catalysts. One's imagination melds so readily with the details on the cards that it is very easy to step into the land of the fey and to discover the teachings waiting there. The settings and the fairies are so evocative in this deck that you get a quantum leap into your meditation if you are only willing. You can meditate with any Tarot deck but with this deck it seems almost effortless.<br />  The cards are divided into four seasonal suits depending on the time of year when a particular fairy is most likely to appear. There are thirteen cards in each suit that are numbered one to nine plus four court cards. Each card has a different fairy for a total of 52 fairies. There are also eight festival cards that mark the cheif fairy feasts. These closely correspond with Wiccan sabbats except Herfest is substituted for Mabon. The cards have both upright and reversed meanings.  The fairies depicted are of all different sorts, fair and ugly. The quality cards are glossy with green backs featuring Celtic knotwork in the shape of the vesica pisces. The book contains delineations for each card that first describes the imagery of the card, then gives the detailed lore of the fairy, the divinatory meanings, reversed meanings, and finally, information and tips on working with the particular fairy including tree and herbal lore or other pertinent habitat lore.<br />  These cards are very beautiful. The fairy lore is so excellent that I would recommend this set just for the book alone.  It is packed with scholarly information and shows a deep understanding of fey beings. It has a select bibliography and has been well-researched.<br />  This deck is not for everyone. You are either a fairy friend or you are not. If you are willing to enter into this realm with an open mind and heart in can be very illuminating. The deck is accessible and the visual images are definite portals. It is an excellent value in that the book is a wonderful resource alone and the cards are a miniature art gallery if nothing else. If used as the creators intend it is a remarkably useful tool for self-awareness.  I highly recommend it.he detailed lore of the fairy, the divinatory meanings, reversed meanings, and finally, information and tips on working with the particular fairy including tree and herbal lore or other pertinent habitat lore.  <BR>  These cards are very beautiful. The fairy lore is so excellent that I would recommend this set just for the book alone.  It is packed with scholarly information and shows a deep understanding of fey beings. It has a select bibliography and has been well-researched. <BR>  This deck is not for everyone. You are either a fairy friend or you are not. If you are willing to enter into this realm with an open mind and heart in can be very illuminating. The deck is accessible and the visual images are definite portals. It is an excellent value in that the book is a wonderful resource alone and the cards are a miniature art gallery if nothing else. If used as the creators intend it is a remarkably useful tool for self-awareness.  I highly recommend it.	2002-10-04
US	41125812	R3D479FKCJIP7G	0060244054	489836181	If You Give a Moose a Muffin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One Thing Leads To Another	If you give a moose a muffin...one thing can lead to another and you just never know what you're in for! This a wonderful book with bright, colorful illustrations filled with humorous situations that stem from that first kind act of hospitality between a little boy and a visiting moose. Kids will love the momentum that keeps building as the friendly moose goes from muffin to mayhem while the boy's unsuspecting mom is outside quietly working in the yard. Laura Joffe Numeroff has written other books of this type that are very entertaining, too, but this one is my favorite, by far. It encourages generosity and co-operation in a mad-cap way.  The big, gangly moose is so funny that the kids are sure to love him and you will be glad to read this book over and over again.	2002-10-02
US	41125812	RN5L5B93WGZ5T	1885003757	501624638	Messenger from the Summer of Love: A Spiritual Journey	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Nostalgia, Spirituality, and Food For Thought	I enjoyed this book very much but I am giving it four stars because it has a lot of editing errors that need to be corrected. This is a novel about a young man, Trevor, growing up in the '60s who like so many people during that time hears a different drummer and after following his path through the bohemian Topanga Canyon lifestyle in Southern California and  breaking up with his girlfriend as their life-styles and values become increasingly divurgent, heads north to the Monterey Pop Festival and the hippie haven of Haight-Ashbury in San Francisco.<br />As Trevor encounters several synchronicities and follows their trail his path takes a spiritual turn and through the use of first LSD and then meditation he opens to a deeper understanding of what is happening during the Movement in SanFrancisco and all over the world during that Summer of Love. He meets a small community of people who are studying with a Master, a type of guru of transcendental spirituality, and they learn that there is a deliberate shift in consciousness that is being encouraged and supported from beings of high vibrational realms. The Flower Power era is NOT a coincidence but a deliberate paradigm shift. The book resonated with me because I grew up during that time and in those very same places and it rang very true to life. The 1960s was a complex, lovely, brutal, exciting and mind-expanding time, a time when many people took quantum leaps in their spiritual, emotional, intellectual and artistic growth. This short, sweet novel expresses some explanations for the climate of that time.  It offers insight into how many people were feeling and thinking. The main character, Trevor, is portrayed very realistically and develops from a curious and open-minded young person into a seeking and realizing pilgrim on the path of self-actualization, peace, amd harmony. So many of us trod that same path. The '60s was not the same thing for everyone, my experience was much more political than Trevor's, I took way more LSD and listened to way more rock 'n roll, but my spirit opened up in exactly the same way to a unique vibration that almost seemed to be in the air and the water at the time. If you lived during that time you may enjoy a nostalgic look backward.  If that is not your era you may enjoy this lovely window into a part of that experience.<br />  At a time when the world seems to have forgotten how to love, this gentle book can go a long way toward reminding us of the capacity we all share for harmony and unity and peace. It might nudge you into recognizing how much fear you carry around with you and help you lay that aside in favor of love. Be sure to wear some flowers in your hair...and read this book.ore LSD and listened to way more rock 'n roll, but my spirit opened up in exactly the same way to a unique vibration that almost seemed to be in the air and the water at the time. If you lived during that time you may enjoy a nostalgic look backward.  If that is not your era you may enjoy this lovely window into a part of that experience.<BR>  At a time when the world seems to have forgotten how to love, this gentle book can go a long way toward reminding us of the capacity we all share for harmony and unity and peace. It might nudge you into recognizing how much fear you carry around with you and help you lay that aside in favor of love. Be sure to wear some flowers in your hair...and read this book.	2002-10-02
US	41125812	R3K2XJNQWP4ISE	0880792922	730552485	Barbara Walker Tarot Deck	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Packed With Symbolism, Scholarly, Thoughtful	Barbara Walker is an excellent scholar of symbolism and her substantial knowledge is evident in this complex and evocative Tarot deck that she based on her book &quot;The Secrets of Tarot: Origins, History and Symbolism&quot;. The paintings for this deck combine traditional Tarot themes with preclassic mythology, influenced by feminine spirituality.  The court cards each depict a different Goddess or God, many of them lesser known but all fascinating. This is not a beginner's deck in that its imagery is complex, however it is one of the finest decks in terms of keyword association and in that sense is a very useful teaching/learning tool. The pip cards each bear a keyword that aids greatly in understanding the card's meaning. The keywords and the titles of the cards are printed in five different languages with English being the primary language. The tiny little guide book that accompanies this deck is actually of great use and helps to interpret the symbols specific to this deck unlike so many guide books of this type.  Some of the imagery is quite dark but so is some of life.  I think this deck teaches more about life and Tarot than most decks. It requires deep reflection and introspection but it is at the same time the perfect vehicle for such work. My only complaint is that the deck is too small. The cards measure 2 1/2&quot; x 3 3/4&quot; and are similar in size to ordinary playing cards, however, the paintings have a wide white border so the actual paintings are only 2&quot; x 2 1/2&quot; and I personally have to use a magnifying glass to study them. The art is simple in style but there are many beautiful images. The Eight of Cups, one of my favorites, shows a despairing satyr with his back up against a willow tree as nearby eight cups drain their contents into a lily pond.  He does not see that the willow tree is actually a beautiful dryad with flowing hair and a shapely female body. The delineation of these symbols in the little guide book is surprisingly detailed and scholarly. I recommend this deck to any student of the Tarot but especially to pagans and Goddess conscious people.ailed and scholarly. I recommend this deck to any student of the Tarot but especially to pagans and Goddess conscious people.	2002-09-29
US	41125812	R27JOWXFQMBCF4	0880794186	549118802	Tarot of the Witches Deck [With Book]	Books	3	13	16	N	N	A Unique Tarot...Surreal But Not Unlovely	Let's deal with this deck's ridiculous title first and get that out of the way. There is no reason to have called it The Tarot of the Witches because it has no more to do specifically with witches than the average Tarot deck that uses Judeo-Christian symbolism. That would be similar to the idea of calling it the Tarot of the Gypsies or the Romany because there is a stereotype that these people use Tarot so it makes the deck sound all the more mysterious. The deck was originally called the James Bond 007 Tarot because Stuart Kaplan cut a deal with the artist Fergus Hall and obtained the rights for worldwide distribution and for using it in a James Bond film. The guide book that comes with the deck does not comment on how the name changed to The Tarot of the Witches. Suffice it to say, it is a meaningless title and move forward.<br /> My chief complaint about this deck is that the pip cards are not individually illustrated but are of the type where the suit's symbol is repeated the corresponding number of times to indicate the number of the card. There is a characteristic symbol for each suit. The meanings attributed to the suits are somewhat different from the classic and perhaps more familiar ones. Cups are said to represent happiness, gaiety, and joy as well as passion and religion. Coins are said to represent opportunity, money, material gain, and deep sensitivity and involvment. Batons are said to represent the laborer and worker, modest and humble people, progress, animation, etc. while Swords are said to represent courage, boldness, force, strength, agression and ambition. It is my feeling that since the meanings of the suits are spelled out so specifically by this deck's creator the pip cards need further illustration or how are we to decide, for example, if the Two of Swords, in this deck, means agression and ambition or if perhaps the Five of Swords is more likely to mean that, or neither or both. How are we to delineate the meanings? I see confusion of symbolism between this deck's Coins and Batons and the Pentacles and Wands of decks that I use more frequently. While the traditonal Cups certainly deal with the realm of the emotions, that is not to say that they are all about happiness and gaiety. Illustrations would be a great aid in understanding these cards if the artist and author wishes to adapt the traditional symbolism to such a degree. Of course, we are always able to adapt our own knowledge and intuition to fit the cards, but if one is trying to be true to the artist's purpose it would certainly help if the artist were less obtuse.<br /> Last, on the subject of the appearance of the Major Arcana and the Court cards. Beauty is, as they say, in the eye of the beholder. Many people find these cards ugly. I find that description ridiculously simplistic. The style of art is a modified Surrealism and I find all of the cards interesting and many of them to be beautiful. The book that accompanies this deck is a rare one for its type in that it contains the artist's own painstaking description of each card and his personal symbolic intent for each aspect of a given card. The colors are vivid, the artistry is abundant and the symbolism is thought-provoking. At first glance they may appear simple but if you take time with this deck and read the artist's intended meanings almost as though you are dialoguing with the artist they will reveal to you some profound insights. Please do not dismiss them because they are unfamiliar. This is decidely Fergus Hall's Tarot, not yours, not Waite's, not Crowley's, not Robin Wood's. So have the courtesy to learn the rules of that universe if you presume to enter it. Hall has thoroughly enjoyed himself in creating these cards and has hidden his love of poetry in some of the cards. For example in the Hermit card, the man is holding a small book with the words to one of Hall's poems, so small that they are illegible to the naked eye. The pages read, \\"Never Try To Ta-Too A Butterfly. Its Lines Are Far Too Fine And Hard To Find. Never Try To Bake An Angels Birthday Cake. When You've Opened It They've Gone Leaving Their Song.\\" Absurd? Yes, Indeed! This deck is a lot of fun, in my opinion, but one definitely needs to take time with it and one must be willing to make the aquaintance of Mr. Hall and allow him to tour you through the Fun House. Any Tarot deck is only as good as your ability to work with its symbols. I hope that you will not overlook this unusual deck simply because it takes you to unfamiliar territory.Are Far Too Fine And Hard To Find. Never Try To Bake An Angels Birthday Cake. When You've Opened It They've Gone Leaving Their Song.\\" Absurd? Yes, Indeed! This deck is a lot of fun, in my opinion, but one definitely needs to take time with it and one must be willing to make the aquaintance of Mr. Hall and allow him to tour you through the Fun House. Any Tarot deck is only as good as your ability to work with its symbols. I hope that you will not overlook this unusual deck simply because it takes you to unfamiliar territory.	2002-09-29
US	41125812	RZ2WLMYDKC2KQ	080692053X	343579989	Lord of the Rings Oracle Gift Set	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Ohh...Ick!	This oracle set is packaged so lavishly, in my opinion, to trick one into buying what is a poorly executed deck of 40 cards, a cheesy plaster of Paris \\"ring\\", a stiff and inaccurate map, and a little, awkward hardcover book.  The book gives directions for using the ring on its own, the ring with the map, and the ring with the cards...kinda like a pendulum or Ouija board type of thing. Why would you want to use the very symbol of evil to ascertain the mysteries? The book also gives three different meanings for each card, Esoteric, Personal, and Reversed. The esoteric meaning for the Mirror Of Galadriel card has a few disjointed phrases about the Kabbala and some psycho-babble about unresolved personality/sexuality...... The art on the cards is just plain awful and if you love The Lord of the Rings they may actually make you wince with pain as they did me. Gollum, subtitled The Unloved Child looks vaguely like the figure in the famous painting called The Scream. The White Tree looks like a spindly birch that has been crookedly planted.  Saruman looks like Sir Walter Raleigh while Gandalf looks like John Malkovich with a bad hangover. There is a card inexplicably titled The Mothers that shows two really ugly beings supposed to be Rose Gamgee and Belladonna Took holding infants.  Mount Doom looks utterly unthreatening. The Black Riders look like really tired people, some quite feminine, none malefic, with the red-eyed leader sporting a huge pair of Longhorn steer horns. The elves are depicted as ladies in pastel dresses and men in cutaway coats and lacey cravats with Vandyke beards. Treating the great work and artistry of J.R.R.Tolkien in such a fashion is just bad karma.  Stay away from this.	2002-09-29
US	41125812	RRF0OPBWRBXCV	088079965X	447420419	The Halloween Tarot	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Pure Halloween Delight	This is a real Tarot deck with carefully thought out imagery based on the familiar Rider-Waite pack. It has been delightfully \\"twisted, turned, and tweaked\\" to create a colorful, humorous, and fun-filled Halloween deck. The brief little pamphlet that comes inside the box with the \\"deck only\\" set explains that the imagery chosen by artist Kipling West encorporates not only old-tome Halloween archetypes but characters from old horror movies, circus images and from the German-made Vegetable People that were popular decorations in America in the 1920s and can be seen on vintage Halloween postcards. Mixed in with the Halloween symbols is a blend of ancient Greek, Egyptian, Hindu, Chaldean and biblical imagery. Kipling West knows her Tarot and she clearly loves Halloween as I do.  This deck is so much fun, the illustrations so bright and colorful and detailed that I think most any Tarot lover will find it enjoyable.  It is perfect for light-hearted, less serious readings that might be done at parties but can also be used by the serious student to broaden one's understanding of the traditional Tarot symbols.<br />  The black cat that appears on each card is so true to life that a cat-lover will spot their own cat's behavior right away. The suits are Bats for Swords, Imps for Wands, Pumpkins for Pentacles, and Ghosts for Cups. While the symbolism on the Court cards and the Major Arcana is very faithful to the Rider-Waite vision it is at the same time enormously creative in working the Halloween symbolism into the cards. The images are all fun and so they are useful for working with people that are merely curious because they do not frighten, however, an experienced reader can easily transpose their own deeper knowledge of the cards onto these loosely veiled images and the deck is satisfactory for serious divination.<br />  If you love the fun-filled and slightly freaky American holiday of Halloween with it's orange and black cornucopia of characters and symbols you will adore this deck as I do. Amazon carries the deck separately or sold as part of a set that includes a detailed book on The Halloween Tarot. Both are excellent depending on your needs. Don't miss this. It's so much fun.his deck as I do. Amazon carries the deck separately or sold as part of a set that includes a detailed book on The Halloween Tarot. Both are excellent depending on your needs. Don't miss this. It's so much fun.	2002-09-29
US	41125812	R1ZCRFOA16JYLY	0374324522	303089041	The Forest	Books	4	10	13	N	N	I'd Give This 5 Stars But I Don't Think Kids Will	This is a beautiful picture book with charming, expressive illustrations filled with details. It tells the tale of a little mouse whose village is at the edge of a great forest.  He is very frightened of the forest and imagines that all kinds of dangers are concealed there. One night he gets tired of being afraid and faces his fear and discovers great beauty. This story is told in the first person and uses some words that might be difficult for little ones like looming, devoured, murmuring, headlong, pillars (to describe trees). However, using uncommon words helps to expand a young one's vocabulary so that in itself is not really a problem just an observation. I think what might make this book unappealing to little ones is that it takes place deep within the mouse.  He reflects on his fears in a mature way, decides to deal with those fears, goes off to the forest alone still grappling with the fears, the fear reaches a crescendo then in the majesty of the forest he contemplates his place in the Universe and finds tranquility. The text is poetical and I was moved by this peacefully thoughtful book but I think the concepts are too much on the inner plane to interest a child. This would actually make a great gift for a teen going off to college or moving away for the first time, or for a friend embarking on a new career, but it's too deep for little children to enjoy on their own.  A parent will really have to explain and dialogue a lot about this book and in that case they might as well dialogue in their own words about facing fears and then choose a fun story for their children.	2002-09-28
US	41125812	R31KG2TXFJL0A7	0802787924	114430446	Harvest	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Bountiful Book	This is an exquisite book and I am amazed that I am the first person to review it. I hope this will encourage people to buy it because it is too lovely to be missed. The talented Kris Waldheer has maintained her history of excellence in the beautiful seasonal illustrations and in the simple but atmospheric text.  It is a short story, almost like a thanksgiving ode that takes place over the course of a day in autumn when a little girl and her mother harvest the garden they have been tending all summer. They work together to can and bake and hang flowers and herbs for drying. She reflects over the careful work they did from seed packet to canning jar. Herbs, fruits, vegetables and flowers overflow from the bountiful illustrations and offer a sweet nostalgic feeling that is perfect storytime fare for the autumn months. There is a subtle feeling of the changing of the seasons and a comforting feeling of the natural cycle of Nature. This is a book that opens the world of the quiet thrills of garden and kitchen and introduces it to children in such an inviting way that it could very well help create a life-long appreciation for gardening, home crafts and Nature that will serve them in so many ways. Don't miss it.  It is a quiet little gem with excellent values.	2002-09-27
US	41125812	R1F4L6RX34MVAR	0395137179	972589750	Katy No-Pocket (Sandpiper)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	From the Same Artist as Curious George	This is a really delightful story book illustrated by H.A. Rey, who also created the beloved Curious George books.  In the same fun-loving and colorful style, the story of Katy, a mama kanagroo with no pocket for her baby, comes to life.  Katy searches high and low and interviews many other kinds of animals to try to find a way to carry her baby, Freddy. In the end she gets some great advice and finds a solution that is pure genius. The story is really cute but H.A. Rey's utterly charming illustrations make this into a treat that should NOT be missed. The details of the various animals are so jolly, the faces so expressive.  The pictures just exude happiness. I believe that once you share this with a little one it will become a family favorite.	2002-09-22
US	41125812	R1MV4Z4LUPSY1R	0618065695	543648629	Curious George Goes to a Costume Party	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Typical Curious Fun!	At first I was a little suspicious about this book, \\"illustrated in the style of H.A.Rey by Martha Weston.\\"  I didn't want anybody messing with my dearly loved friend, Curious George!  I am glad to say that I was pleasantly surprised. This book tells the Halloween adventures of our curious little pal, as he and the man with the yellow hat go to a costume party. At first, George finds it a bit scary because he doesn't understand about make-believe dress-up, but then he gets into the fun of it. They need to borrow costumes from the hostess of the party and George has lots and lots of choices. Due to George's typical curiosity, the party becomes much more lively than the hostess intended!  The story and the illustrations are true to the style we know and love from the original Curious George books by Margret and H.A. Rey. The pictures are brimming with action and excitement and colorful fun. This story has the added benefit of introducing some Halloween characters that little ones may be frightened of and showing that they are really just pretend and taking the scariness out of them. It also shows fun Halloween customs like jack-o-lanterns, bobbing for apples and other party activities. This is a real treat for Curious George fans and for fans of Halloween. Don't miss it.	2002-09-22
US	41125812	R1XTS3UT62EPV4	0394865871	611554024	Little Witch's Big Night (Step into Reading)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Cute Easy Reader Halloween Story	This \\"STEP into Reading\\" title is a Step 2 book which means it is intended for Grades 1-3.  It is the first of several titles featuring the sweet and fun-loving character, Little Witch, charmingly brought to life by illustrator Marc Brown. The other witch characters Mother Witch, Grouchy Witch, Nasty Witch and the pet bat, Scrubby are funny and not at all scary. The story begins on Halloween when Little Witch is made to stay home from the witchly revels because she has been too GOOD! Oh, the shame of it! She ends up meeting some trick-or-treaters and they have a lot of fun together. There are lots of funny rhyming spells and exciting and good-hearted adventures.  Halloween fun abounds.  The pictures and the text are lively and will definitely encourage interest. I recommend this not only as a great incentive for reading but as an enjoyable Halloween story that can just as well be read aloud by a parent. Don't miss Happy Birthday, Little Witch. It's good, too.	2002-09-22
US	41125812	RO1DT57T28BZI	0060255358	536832973	Chicken Soup with Rice: A Book of Months	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Chicken Soup For the Funny Bone	This is a short and sweet little book that can be read in just a few minutes, but every minute will be filled with fun! In cleverly silly rhymes Maurice Sendak takes us through the twelve months and thoroughly entertains us with his characteristic illustrations featuring the little dark-haired boy we've come to know in some of his other stories. The non-sensical inclusion of \\"chicken soup with rice\\" in all of the rhymes makes the months all the more memorable and easy for kids to recite, a great little device. The paperback edition is very affordable but I suspect you'll love this one so much that you'll want the hardcover in your library.	2002-09-22
US	41125812	R1RE43KYJ7G35C	0140553053	469939898	By the Light of the Halloween Moon (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Watch Out! If the Bat Doesn't Get You, the Ghoul Might!	This is a cumulative rhyming story that begins with a child's pair of bare feet dangling peacefully over the side of a bridge in the silvery moonlight of a Halloween night. One by one, various creatures of the night reach forward to grab one of the little, unsuspecting toes, but each attempt, in turn, is botched by the next creature. Black cats, bats, witches, ghouls and other spooky folk take a crack at the toe and the suspense keeps building in a delightfully fun and entertaining way.  The Halloween creatures are all so funny that this story really cannot be considered at all scary but the level of suspense takes it out of the realm of the cute and deftly places it in the realm of the spine-tingly!  It's high spirited Halloween fun for one and all.	2002-09-22
US	41125812	R3UV4BIF095ICT	1550744879	395959730	Lucy Maud Montgomery: A Writer&#x2019;s Life (Snapshots: Images of People and Places in History)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Anne Fans, Rejoice!	This is the perfect book for any true fan of Anne of Green Gables, Emily of New Moon or Pat of Silverbush.  It is a 32 page book in the picture book format that is loaded with photos, articles, news clippings, history and little known facts about the life of the Canadian author, L.M. Montgomery, who created all of these wonderful characters and many more in her books and stories about life in Prince Edward Island. Unlike several of the longer biographies that have been written about Montgomery, this one can be read in an afternoon and combines plenty of visual fare along with the written details of this amazing woman's life.  This is a book that adults who have loved Anne will find satisfyingly interesting as well as one that is suitably concise and brief.  Older children will enjoy the breezy conversational style in which it is written. Photographs abound, including ones of Montgomery's various homes, her children and her husband, as well as youthful friends and \\"beaus\\" and even her favorite cat, Lucky.  It traces her life from her earliest days, through growing up, her time as a teacher, a newspaper woman, a professional writer, as the author of Anne of Green Gables and the myriad other titles that followed, and as a wife and mother.  Excerpts from her journals provide special insight into her heart and mind and I found these to be the most thrilling parts of all.  A chronology of all her books is included as well as several websites that concern L.M. Montgomery and her books.  Wonderful little tidbits are numerous and include the personal details about writing Anne of Green Gables, the starts and stops, the interruptions, the rejection slips and tears.  We learn that Montgomery's secondhand typewriter didn't type capital letters very well and didn't type \\"w\\" at all! I really enjoyed this book and I believe any fan of this gifted author's work will delight in it, too.  It is especially encouraging and cheering to young writers.	2002-09-17
US	41125812	R3BPVV592JDK26	0060269561	314290316	Over and Over	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The Wheel of the Year	This book was created by a true dream team, beloved author Charlotte Zolotow and gifted illustrator Garth Williams. It begins with a little girl who is too little to know about time. She is so young, we learn, that she doesn't know the days of the week yet, or the months, or even the seasons in order.  She has memories of things like a crocus in bloom, a snowman, Valentines, a turkey dinner, and a Christmas tree but they're jumbled up in her head in no particular order.<br />One morning when the little girl wakes up to find that snow has fallen during the night she excitedly wants an explanation.  After her mother explains about snow and winter, the little girl wants to know, \\"What's next?\\"  As her mother continues throughout this delightful story to explain what season or holiday comes next, Zolotow's story gives us charming details that Williams transforms into pure magic.  We eventually traverse the whole wheel of the year and return to the little girl's winter birthday where she makes a wonderful wish.  This is a beautiful book in every way and is certainly the best I know of for teaching the traditional American/Christian holiday cycle and the flow of the seasons in northern America. It's lovely.	2002-09-16
US	41125812	R2GT4XLI4W8PO6	0807524972	355273740	Flicka, Ricka, Dicka and the Little Dog	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Good Things Come In Threes	This charming story book was originally published in 1946.  I discovered it in my grade school library in 1958 and I have loved it and its companion volumes about the triplet sisters Flicka, Ricka, and Dicka ever since. Swedish author and artist Maj Lindman created several books about the triplet sisters and also several about triplet brothers, Snipp, Snapp, anmd Snurr.  Using brightly colored, very animated illustrations she brings to life a simple story and always perfectly captures the innocent heart of childhood.  In this story the little triplets find a stray dog and they all fall in love.  Their mother sees a notice in the paper about a missing dog and the triplets are distraught to learn he must go. A cranky old farmer can't seem to get the pup to stay put and there is a nice surprise.  The bubbling personalities of the little girls are endearing, especially when we see them interacting with an elderly person. We have a lot of fun in this story when they are learning to care for the pup. This book was written at a gentler time than today but it so beautifully captures the essence of childhood that I think it will always be a treasure.	2002-09-16
US	41125812	R3OFF7BI4CBJM1	1577491114	612164338	A Garden of Love and Healing: Living Tributes to Those We Have Loved and Lost	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Atmosphere of Affirming Life: Living Tributes	I am delighted to review this beautiful book because it offers such creative and healing ideas for affirming and celebrating life throughout one of life's most difficult passages, the loss of a loved one.  It offers myriad ideas for creating garden tributes, places of beauty and solace where we can honor lost loved ones in an atmosphere of peace and hope.  This book is filled with useful ideas and directions for physically creating garden retreats, large and small, but it is also brimming with compassionate and sensitive advice for grieving people.  It's meditative tone gently creates a vibration of healing and an appreciation for the cycle and interconnected web of life. It helps us to connect with Nature's healing spirit. It offers a list of plants representing each month, discusses the symbolism of color, touches on the Victorian language of flowers, as well as several themes and their associated plants. These lists are detailed and out of the ordinary.  They are filled with thought and care and are diverse enough to suit most any need. Poignant quotations and the personal thoughts of others surviving loss grace the book throughout and help one to relate and open to healing as if in the company of gentle friends.<br />  Many different garden themes are suggested, of varying sizes and complexity, such as an herb garden of memory, a meditation garden, a patriotic garden, a garden in remembrance of a baby, a bird and butterfly garden, among several. Sporadic photographs illustrate the book and lend inspiration as well. Descriptions of several famous memorial gardens are described such as The Danny Thomas Memorial Garden near St. Jude's Children's Hospital in Memphis and the Wrigley Memorial Garden on Catalina Island.<br />  Sometimes getting busy and putting our body to work is the most therapeutic thing we can do for ourselves when we are hurting and this book suggests that principle in the chapter that explains how prepare, install and maintain your garden.<br />  Suggestions for accessories such as trellises, bird baths, chairs, benches, plaques, engraved stones, statues and artifical lighting are discussed.  Dedications for the garden are discussed.  All in all, it is a very effective book in terms of nuts and bolts how-to advice, but its most precious gift, one which I feel every grieving person could benefit from, is the holistic perspective that it restores to a heart rent with loss and pain.  By inviting us to be creative and to pay tribute with our own talents, ideas, efforts and physical work to someone we have lost, it gives us an opportunity to go inward and search out the best and most life-touching attributes of our loved one and the gifts and meaning that the relationship gave to our lives. It helps us to gently shift our focus away from loss and  look toward legacy. To be remembered is something that most of us hope for and this lovely book will help greatly in the process that brings us through to remembering the life rather than the loss.  I highly recommend it.estions for accessories such as trellises, bird baths, chairs, benches, plaques, engraved stones, statues and artifical lighting are discussed.  Dedications for the garden are discussed.  All in all, it is a very effective book in terms of nuts and bolts how-to advice, but its most precious gift, one which I feel every grieving person could benefit from, is the holistic perspective that it restores to a heart rent with loss and pain.  By inviting us to be creative and to pay tribute with our own talents, ideas, efforts and physical work to someone we have lost, it gives us an opportunity to go inward and search out the best and most life-touching attributes of our loved one and the gifts and meaning that the relationship gave to our lives. It helps us to gently shift our focus away from loss and  look toward legacy. To be remembered is something that most of us hope for and this lovely book will help greatly in the process that brings us through to remembering the life rather than the loss.  I highly recommend it.	2002-09-15
US	41125812	R3K9MXT2TZZHPQ	1590790170	554881382	ADHD Secrets of Success: Coaching Yourself to Fulfillment in the Business World	Books	5	15	15	N	N	ADHD Illuminated	This is a valuable book for many reasons.  It is well written in easily understood terms while at the same time being inspirational and motivational and just plain great common sense. It spends time helping us to understand ADHD as not being an affliction but as simply a different mode of being. It makes an analogy between the Hunter/Gatherer societies of early mankind and equates the ADHD personality with the &quot;hunter&quot; type.  Careful detail conveys to us the keys to success with ADHD in the workplace and as an entrepeneur.  My favorite part of the book is the wonderful section on practical advice for building a life using the myriad positive aspects of ADHD to one's own advantage.  This creative and positive author has given us a short, easily digested book that we can return to again and again, as needed, that delivers to us (or rather returns to us)an appreciation of the attributes for success that come naturally to the AHDH person.<br />  Primarily geared toward the adult with ADHD who is out in the workplace or business world, I feel this book is ESSENTIAL reading for all parents of ADHD children because of its incredible message of hope and its thoroughly postive attitude. It provides tools that parents of ADHD children can use to advocate for their children with physicians and educators.  It reveals a different perspective than we are so often fed, changing the outlook from one of disability and affliction to one of great potential and even giftedness.  For the ADHD young adult trying to get through the high school and college years, this book is indespensible.  I think most success comes through the conscientious use of the unique gifts and talents with which each of us is born.  This book restores and affirms the gifts of the ADHD personality and places them in perspective.  Along with the intelligent advice for knowing and understanding oneself as a person with ADHD this book illuminates the built-in and unique possibilities that are often dismissed and overlooked.  Don't miss it.and overlooked.  Don't miss it.	2002-09-15
US	41125812	R36IPIJPP2PH1G	0789306441	228809902	The Moon Book: A Lunar Pop-up Celebration	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I Would Give You the Moon If It Were Mine To Give	This is such a cool book and it makes a wonderful gift for anyone who loves the moon but is particularly nice for grade school and middle school kids that are interested in Astronomy.  As a pagan I find it useful when I teach about the waxing and waning of the moon, eclipses, etc.<br />  It uses clever pop-up pictures and gadgets to explain the relationship of the Earth, Sun and Moon, the Moon's directional movement, the eight basic phases of the moon as seen from the Northern Hemisphere, eclipses, the Goddess Diana in Her moon chariot, the Earth as seen from the Moon, and a futuristic tourist moon station.  The art is clear and beautiful and the entire book encourages interactive learning.  It is not only interesting but entertaining.  Have this handy before the next full moon, share it with someone, then go outside and experience the glorious lunar beauty, enriched by knowledge. I enjoyed it and I think you will, too.	2002-09-09
US	41125812	R3KJNDCIVUIEKL	0140502343	662099832	The Story of Ferdinand (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Marching To A Different Drummer	Written in 1936 this beautiful story of Ferdinand, a gentle calf that grows into a very large but peace-loving bull has enchanted millions of people and continues to do so to this day.<br />  Robert Lawson of Rabbit Hill fame has done a great job with the black and white drawings of Ferdinand and his surroundings, filled with humorous details of the Spanish bull-fighting world.<br />Monro Leaf's tale shows what happens when a bumble bee's sting brings Ferdinand, unexpectedly to the attention of the bull ring scouts.<br />  This book is always one of the first ones I buy for new babies among our family and friends.  It's a true classic. Enjoy this sweet message about being yourself and make Ferdinand a friend for life.	2002-09-05
US	41125812	R3SYBX014D6LMD	0618130462	31259651	Nursery Classics: A Galdone Treasury	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Favorite Tales, Masterful Illustrations	The familiar tales, The Three Little Pigs, The Three Bears, The Little Red Hen and Cat Goes Fiddle-i-fee can be found in many other editions, told and illustrated by many talented people, but it is in this treasury, in my opinion, that they truly shine as the beloved stories they are.  Paul Galdone, winner of two Caldecott Honors, illustrated these tales with a deep committment to children and put so much lively humor into each drawing that they have been received with delight for decades. The expressions on the faces of the animals in the stories are so apt and evocative that they virtually tell the stories themselves.  Large and colorful and filled with detail and activity they are perfect for holding the attention of young listeners.<br />  Parents who may remember these gems from their own childhood will be interested in the short biography of this talented artist that is to be found at the beginning of the book.  Whether you remember these stories and pictures from your own childhood or not, I guarantee you will delight in this treasury of stories and pictures that are a wonderful legacy for any child.	2002-09-05
US	41125812	R35A0NKNOFLNDP	1564022714	83994150	Floss	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Treat For Dog Lovers	This short simple story of a young Border Collie learning her craft in English sheep country is beautifully illustrated and will win the hearts of any dog lover, particularly one lucky enough to know Border Collies themselves.  When her elderly owner gives her to his son she must make the transition from a town dog with little responsibility to a working country dog. She longs to play with the farmer's children but her job keeps her busy. The artist's wonderful examples of canine body posture and facial expressions speak volumes. Check it out and discover how Floss adjusts to her new life. I think you'll really enjoy it as I did.	2002-09-05
US	41125812	RJQ1MXZIPLJV3	0374403848	252415998	Angus Lost	Books	5	15	16	N	N	After Reading This My Heart Is Lost, Too!	This book is a wonderful little work of art that you should not miss.  Written in 1931, this story of a plucky and curious young Scottish terrier named Angus is a short, simple tale about a small dog's big curiosity almost getting the best of him.  Angus, who is very curious about where the milk man comes from and where the wide road goes, and what kind of animals cars are, and MANY other things, finds his chance to explore when the gate to his yard is left ajar one day.  He has some amazing adventures for such a little guy and they are sure to hold the attention of young listeners.  The artwork in this book is truly lovely with the backgrounds being similar to silhouettes.  Many of the pictures are simple black and white and others have colored washes to add interest.  The drawings show the automobiles, homes, furnishings, and a bit of the clothing of the bygone day in which this book was written and greatly add to the charm of this book. Little Angus is a heart-melter and I predict you will not be able to resist him.  Two other books about his adventures, Angus and the Ducks and Angus and the Cat are wonderful, too.	2002-09-05
US	41125812	R3LSZPFHWTZ9GU	0517603578	521952948	The Jessie Willcox Smith Mother Goose: A Careful and Full Selection of the Rhymes (with numerous illustrations in full color and black and white)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Sumptuous Illustrations Accompany Historical Nursery Classic	This splendid book should be in every nursery library.  It contains hundreds of nursery rhymes, some very well known to American children and some not so familiar including the 51 rhymes with morals found in the original Mother Goose collection that was printed by Isaiah Thomas in Massachusetts in the years just following the Revolutionary War.<br />  The book is printed on high quality silk-smooth paper and is printed in large clear type with charming black and white accent illustrations of children and characters from that era.  Familiar and well-known Mother Goose verses as well as perhaps unkown verses are included.  Many beautiful illustrations by the amazing Jessie Willcox Smith enhance this volume, a few in black and white, but most in full color, full page glory.  Smith, born in 1863 is, in my opinion, one of the finest illustrators of children ever.  She never used professional models and preferred to search out the right child for the picture.  As a result her illustrations bring images to us straight out of history and capture with an appreciative heart the sweetness of childhood, unsurpassed.<br />  This book is truly a treasure, one that is sure to be enjoyed for many years to come.	2002-09-05
US	41125812	R3W3B2OQBHHZZU	0698113632	921876551	Millions of Cats (Paperstar)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Cat Lover's Dream	This charming book was written in 1928 and has delighted people ever since.  Captain Kangaroo first read it to me sometime in the early 1950s and I credit it with my lifelong love of cats, ( I don't have millions but I do have ten!) Wanda Gag's truly unique illustrations capture the surprising situation that arises when a very old man and a very old woman realize they can't be happy because they are lonely.  The very old woman wishes for a cat and her loving husband sets off to oblige her. Something of a CATastrophe ensues! The story delivers a sweet message and is sure to become a lifelong favorite for you as it has for me. Please don't miss it!	2002-09-05
US	41125812	R6QZAB1759RNV	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	15	22	N	N	Frighteningly Prescient	This is a work of speculative fiction that takes place in a dystopia of the near future, a totalitarian government in the former United States.<br />  The particulars of the story serve to describe this society and I will not go into the details here as they are available in the editorial reviews, except to say that because the society's repressive laws are misogynous and are couched in terms of Biblical laws and mythologies it may seem to be an indictment of evangelical Christianity and it is actually so much further reaching than that. Subtle warnings about a clever and devious conservative white male think tank that in all probability is utterly devoid of any actual spiritual motivation and whose primary focus is the self-preservation of their elite privileged lifestyle in the face of its own self-destructive biological consequences are to be found here. Subtle warnings abound in this story and it behooves one to look at oneself as well. Short-sightedness and perfunctory utility are the destroyers of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.<br /> This is a well-realized society that Atwood has created, one that is utterly repressive in every way.  The book is well-paced, well written and masterfully conceived. So complex and thought provoking is the book that it is one of the few modern day works of fiction to be the subject of a Cliffs Notes study guide.<br />  I found it particularly interesting that this book was published in 1985 and yet it warns of a paperless society, plastic and numerical money, and universal identification cards among other aspects of modern times that do, in fact, seem to be a coming reality. Ironically, the narrator of the story, a completely objectified, sexual commodity, enslaved and utterly repressed by the government, prior to the coups d'etat, worked as a transcriber in a university library and her task was to transcribe books onto compact disks in order to maximize space. As long as she still had the illusion of liberty and was being paid, she never questioned the danger of her job to civil liberty as a whole. Atwood's allusion to the reality in modern times of an insidious Fahrenheit 451 attitude, ostensibly for practicality's sake, is just one of the chilling warnings presented in this book.<br />  In one passage of remarkably prescient writing Atwood describes the actual day of the takeover thus: \\"It was after the catastrophe, when they shot the president and machine-gunned the Congress and the army declared a state of emergency.  They blamed it on the Islamic fanatics, at the time.  Keep calm, they said on television.  Everything is under control.\\"<br />I find it exceedingly interesting and frightening that our true-life catastrophe of 9-11 has already caused us to lower our guard and allow serious incursions into our civil liberties.  We, like the Handmaid Offred in her earlier life, seem to be unconcerned so long as we are still getting paid and are still allowed our own personal familiar comforts.  We are so complacent and so trusting.  This book was a wake-up call seventeen years ago when it was published and today it is a warning siren against a gathering storm that we dare not plug our ears to ignor.  Read it and think.ing paid, she never questioned the danger of her job to civil liberty as a whole. Atwood's allusion to the reality in modern times of an insidious Fahrenheit 451 attitude, ostensibly for practicality's sake, is just one of the chilling warnings presented in this book.<BR>   In one passage of remarkably prescient writing Atwood describes the actual day of the takeover thus: \\"It was after the catastrophe, when they shot the president and machine-gunned the Congress and the army declared a state of emergency.  They blamed it on the Islamic fanatics, at the time.  Keep calm, they said on television.  Everything is under control.\\"  <BR>I find it exceedingly interesting and frightening that our true-life catastrophe of 9-11 has already caused us to lower our guard and allow serious incursions into our civil liberties.  We, like the Handmaid Offred in her earlier life, seem to be unconcerned so long as we are still getting paid and are still allowed our own personal familiar comforts.  We are so complacent and so trusting.  This book was a wake-up call seventeen years ago when it was published and today it is a warning siren against a gathering storm that we dare not plug our ears to ignor.  Read it and think.	2002-09-03
US	41125812	R1BLCAMHX2E602	0613271971	201606124	Ten Timid Ghosts (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Read with Me Cartwheel Books (Pb))	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Witch's Hoax Unravels	The ten timid ghosts are just minding their own business, haunting their house like always when a witch decides to move in on their turf.  She tries all kinds of scary costumes (that are actually quite funny) and she almost succeeds in clearing the ghosts out of their own space, but her hoax unravels in the end.  Find out how!  The illustrations are colorful and fun-filled.  The text is simple and easy for little ones to follow. Maybe not a Halloween classic but a fun story that little ones are sure to enjoy that you can read in the days leading up to Halloween to familiarize little ones with spooky costumes.	2002-08-27
US	41125812	R2BY1P1BUYAQMW	1565547128	84197980	Halloween Romantic Art and Customs of Yesteryear	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Romantic Fortunes and Halloween Fun	Halloween in the United States wasn't always a children's trick-or-treat holiday. In the beginning of the 20th century Halloween was a time when young adults peered into the murky haze of things to come and used all manner of methods to try to prophesy their romantic futures. Parties were the rage where bobbing for apples wasn't just a game but a chance to search the omens found in apple seeds and peels. Auguries in candle flames, in pumpkins, seeds, nuts and mirrors all were employed by the curious.  This wonderful book uses the illustrations of full-color vintage postcards that were the rage in the early 1900s to show the many delightful and quaint oracles that were consulted.  It includes numerous Halloween poems and party ideas from a bygone era, even some super costume ideas that could be used today to stunning effect for a nostalgic Halloween celebration.  The text is filled with detailed history about the customs of yesteryear and the abundant appeal of the postcard images, pictures of antique table favors and invitations is sure to delight. Do not miss out on this book if you love Halloween.  It contains a forgotten and very charming aspect of Halloween and Americana that I found very enjoyable and I think you will, too.	2002-08-27
US	41125812	R1X58QAEPZQ1JF	0590693301	449619817	Franklin's Halloween	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Franklin Shows That Halloween Is Fun, Not Scary	Franklin is a little cutie and he has lots of nice friends. They are all excited that Halloween is coming and they are making big plans. The bright colored, detailed illustrations of the quaint woodland world where they live are brimming with wholesome, good-natured fun.  This is a good book for introducing Halloween to little ones so that they will not be unnerved by mysterious ghouls who'll come knocking on their doors on Halloween. It shows Franklin and friends getting their costumes ready for a party, painting, cutting and pasting decorations, bobbing for apples, playing a pumpkin toss game, and trick-or-treating in their neighborhood. They're a little spooked when they visit a make-believe haunted house but it turns out to be fun and they solve a mystery!  They pool some of their goodies to deliver to their friend who is ill and can't go out trick-or-treating.  It also shows little Franklin getting carried home in the arms of Daddy with Mommy walking along beside.  It's heart-warming and has enough action to hold a little one's attention so they can become familiar with common Halloween disguises. It's easy to see from the pictures that Franklin is Franklinstein, Fox is clearly the mummy, Skunk is Dracula, and Goose is a wolf. Our friends dress up but we know it's still them underneath the make-up and masks.  Franklin is a lot of fun at Halloween.  Enjoy!	2002-08-27
US	41125812	R142O6O4YVVPMK	0670035106	404665928	Corduroy & Company	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Treasury Indeed!	This wonderful treasury book contains ten of the beloved stories of the talented and original writer/artist, Don Freeman including his best loved character, the irrepressible teddy bear, Corduroy, complete with their full color illustrations. It also contains a never before published story called Gayelord, about a very colorful goat.<br />There is an interesting introduction and nice photographs of Don Freeman. Chuggy and the Blue Caboose is a great story about a little snow-plower caboose and his engine friend, Lucy, that save the day. In Pet of the Met we meet Maestro Petrini, a dashing and clever mouse who works as a page-turner for the prompter at the Metropolitan Opera House. The story of Beady Bear is next, followed by everyone's favorite red-headed boy, Mop Top. Fly High Fly Low, a Caldecott Honor Book from 1957 tells the story of two pigeons, Sid and Midge, and their adventures in San Francisco, featuring many of that city's beautiful landmarks. Who can resist the adorable Norman the Doorman, the charming mouse doorman of the majestic Museum of Art who becomes an artist in his own right. Enjoy Dandelion as he gets fancied up for a party and don't forget Tilly Witch, the Queen of Halloween, (sadly, now out of print) but still to be found riding her surf board with a whisk broom for a skeg in this great collection. Flash the Dash, the story of a dachshund who delivers telegrams, rounds out the treasury.<br /> At the back of the book is a biographical article with more photographs of Don Freeman and samples of his drawings for other genres.<br /> I love this book because it collects so many beloved stories in one place. It makes these gems available, preserving them for future generations and is an affordable package that makes it easy for parents to provide these classics for their children. Hopefully, it will encourage folks to seek out the individual story books, too, so they can enjoy the full size illustrations. Don Freeman's characters are so filled with fun and are so lively and expressive, they are not to be missed.d are so lively and expressive, they are not to be missed.	2002-08-25
US	41125812	R3VC3KF4677RYH	0448424991	739482031	Corduroy's Best Halloween Ever!	Books	3	30	32	N	N	Corduroy or a CareBear in Green Overalls?	First, the good things about this little Halloween book, and there are several.  The illustrations are cute and colorful and introduce little ones to the festivities that take place at Halloween like costume parties, bobbing for apples, carving jack-o-lanterns and going trick-or-treating. The main character, a little bear named Corduroy is as sweet as can be and is very selfless and compassionate when he discovers that one of his friends does not have a costume for the Halloween party. Good-hearted Corduroy promptly gives up his own costume that he has painstakingly produced for himself.  In the end, this clever Corduroy comes up with an alternative for himself by whisking the soiled tablecloth off the party table. It's a nice story, although not very exciting in any way, and very little kids will probably enjoy it.<br />  Now, for the faults and there are few. This book is BASED ON the Corduroy stories written and illustrated by the late Don Freeman, a wonderfully talented and original writer and artist. The Corduroy in this book is most decidedly NOT the Corduroy we have come to love in Don Freeman's books.  He lacks the depth of expression, the curiosity and hapless penchant for troubles that our beloved Corduroy, born in 1968, has. This Corduroy is more like a CareBear in his goody-goody ways.  A pair of green overalls does not a Corduroy make!  I'd much rather remember him as a plucky little guy who finds a loving little girl to care for him than to see him as a homeowner, shopper, party-planner, host and crises solver.<br />  This book is a pretty cute Halloween tale but it could fly on its own with any generic teddy bear and it should have left Corduroy safe and sound in our hearts and minds, just the way he was.	2002-08-25
US	41125812	R1KJIN1ID7OQPH	0385327153	444133547	Anne of Green Gables	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Anne of Green Gables Picture Book...Lovely!	Please note this review is for the hardcover picture book edition of L.M. Montgomery's Anne of Green Gables, adapted by M.C. Helldorfer and illustrated by Ellen Beier.  It is not meant to be a review of the unabridged original novel.<br />  Just as I love every one of L.M. Montgomery's tales of Prince Edward Island, particularly all of her Anne books, I love this charming picture book adaptation of her best loved and well-known book, Anne of Green Gables. This is a delightful introduction to the world of Anne Shirley, the plucky red-headed orphan girl with the poetic and romantic soul, who wins the hearts of everyone she meets...eventually!<br />  Ellen Beier has done a remarkable job bringing the characters and events of this delightful book to life with her colorful illustrations of a bygone day. In 38 pages the key events in the story are covered with sufficient detail to capture the charm of the original book and are sure to whet the appetite for more details of the beloved Anne and her friends and family of Avonlea. We join the shy and quiet Matthew Cuthbert at the train station when he first discovers that the \\"boy\\" he and his sister, Marilla expected to adopt is an eleven year old girl with red hair, whose dreamy imagination fuels her non-stop friendly banter all the way back to their home, called Green Gables. We share in Anne's misery when she learns Marilla wants to send her back! We meet Anne's best friend Diana Barry.  We suffer along with Anne when she is unjustly accused of losing Marilla's heirloom brooch. We meet the handsome tease Gilbert Blythe who taunts Anne with the name Carrots until he feels the crack of her school slate on his head. This book illustrates Anne's misguided attempt to change her hated red hair color and shows her misery when it turns out GREEN! Worse yet, she then needs to get shorn like a sheep.  Oh the agony of embarassment! Speaking of embarassing moments, we are there when Anne, play-acting as Elaine, the Lily Maid of Astolat, finds her \\"funeral barge\\" has sprung a leak and (oh horrors!) she must be rescued by none other than the hated Gilbert Blythe. We are there as Anne slowly, bit by bit, creates a permanent happy place in the lives of the Cuthberts and of all who know her. The book leaves off on the happy occasion of Anne recieving a beautiful longed for dress with the coveted and fashionable puffed sleeves that the practical Marilla had originally frowned upon as frivolous. Alot of Anne's characterization is omitted, necessarily, from this shortened version but her charm and verve still shine through. I think this is a great first Anne book and I hope it will help bring the beloved stories to an ever widening readership.inds her \\"funeral barge\\" has sprung a leak and (oh horrors!) she must be rescued by none other than the hated Gilbert Blythe. We are there as Anne slowly, bit by bit, creates a permanent happy place in the lives of the Cuthberts and of all who know her. The book leaves off on the happy occasion of Anne recieving a beautiful longed for dress with the coveted and fashionable puffed sleeves that the practical Marilla had originally frowned upon as frivolous. Alot of Anne's characterization is omitted, necessarily, from this shortened version but her charm and verve still shine through. I think this is a great first Anne book and I hope it will help bring the beloved stories to an ever widening readership.	2002-08-25
US	41125812	R29L9QKON1GU96	068984607X	241758695	It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown	Books	2	43	49	N	N	Re-Drawn Book Adapted From the TV Special	I almost feel like a traitor saying anything less than praise for this book featuring the Peanuts Gang created originally by Charles M. Schulz.  I, like millions of others, grew up with Charlie Brown, Lucy, Linus, Violet, Snoopy, Pig Pen, Schroeder, and Sally.  Every year at Halloween I looked forward to seeing the story of sincere Linus waiting for the Great Pumpkin in the pumpkin patch. This book contains all the characters and it re-tells essentially the same story but it has been illustrated by Paige Braddock rather than Schulz and adapted by Justine and Ron Fontes and seems to have lost something in the process. The Peanuts gang always was kind of surly with each other, calling names like Blockhead, pulling footballs out from each other and laughing at one another's expense. In this story, of course, Linus is the brunt of the teasing because he has undying faith in the mythical Great Pumpkin.  For years I loved watching the Charlie Brown cartoon specials, the catchy piano jazz theme and the short, big-headed kids with their flat feet and funny facial expressions.  Who could help loving Snoopy as the Red Baron or little Woodstock? These cartoons have always had a decidedly adult sense of humor, sometimes rather dark humor even though children the world over have loved the cartoon kids themselves.<br />  This book doesn't work, in my opinion, precisely because it is NOT the TV movie.  As a picture book it is placed directly into the world of children's literature and as such, the innocence of the readership makes satire seem inappropriate and it comes off as bad-tempered, impatient and indifferent to the feelings of others.  This is not something I want to convey to children and it is not something I like to see done to a classic. Most of the pictures show facial expressions on the kids that are either discouraged, sad, taunting or angry.  There's even anguish on one little face. There are only a few smiles.<br />  It is touted as the 35th Anniversary edition but it really doesn't celebrate much of an anniversary because it is an off-shoot of the real thing...sadly not too close to the real thing, in fact.  I got this book because I had feelings of fond nostalgia for Linus and his vigil in the pumpkin patch but it made me question why I ever liked it in the first place, and that's sad.t really doesn't celebrate much of an anniversary because it is an off-shoot of the real thing...sadly not too close to the real thing, in fact.  I got this book because I had feelings of fond nostalgia for Linus and his vigil in the pumpkin patch but it made me question why I ever liked it in the first place, and that's sad.	2002-08-25
US	41125812	R3U6H4YY259K1B	0694003816	92522058	What Is Halloween? (Lift-The-Flap Story)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Halloween Fun For the Very Young	This bright, fun-filled picture book is the perfect introduction to Halloween customs for little ones, ages 2-5. It is printed on sturdy tagboard-like stock, so though not an indestructable board book, it is still very durable. It features a girl mouse named Little Mouse who is learning all about the festivities of Halloween from her parents. Through the use of clever lift-up flaps we see before and after pictures of the carving of a jack-o-lantern. We look inside a closet and a trunk to find Halloween costumes. We knock on the neighbor's door and it is opened by a friendly lady mouse with candies. We even get to go through the door of the bakery downtown and are treated to a nice cookie. The grocerman mouse opens his door to give us a bright shiny apple. Best of all, when we open Little Mouse's own front door there is a surprise trick from Mama Mouse. The drawings and text are very simple but are filled with curiosity and wonderment and the excitement of a first-time Halloween experience as seen through the eyes of a little one.  I highly, highly recommend sharing this book with your child before the big day arrives to help dispell any confusing scary parts of the holiday and to encourage anticipation and lots of fun.	2002-08-25
US	41125812	R3V62ACVMBWVC6	0486202879	336134714	Snow Crystals (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Sacred Geometry	I love this book because it gives me a unique feeling of spiritual unity each time I open it. It may be that you will appreciate it for different reasons, but for me, it is a graphic reminder that there is a creative and benign intelligence moving the Universe. Originally published in 1931 this unique book contains 202 black and white plates of snow flakes mounted and photographed with painstaking effort under difficult circumstances by W.A. Bentley aka Snowflake Bentley. Maybe you won't want to sit down and look at each and every one because, of course, they are nearly all the same even though each one is unique, but that's another reason I like the book.  It demonstrates so simply and eloquently the unity in diversity.<br />  The photographs are very beautiful and they will be interesting to anyone who is fascinated with weather or with graphics in art, perhaps for textile patterns or silk-screen ideas.  The images are copyright free and you can use up to ten of them without fees, permission, or acknowledgement.<br />  There is a very small amount of text at the beginning of this book that tells about the different kinds of snow crystals and a little bit about how the work to capture them on film was done.  There is one nice photograph of Bentley at his camera which is charming, but for the most part, this book is dedicated to the snow crystals themselves. Anyone who has stood outside on a cold, crisp snowy day and caught snow crsytals on an upturned mitten and marveled at their exquisite beauty will enjoy this book.  The crystals speak volumes and we have Mr. Bentley to thank for cummunicating their message to us.	2002-08-24
US	41125812	R384QQ3S9WZPI9	0060254793	72955095	The Teeny Tiny Ghost	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Teeny Tiny Ghost, Big, Big Fun!	The clever, very funny and fun-loving illustrations in this cute Halloween book make a creative and refreshingly original story come to life. Meet the teeny, tiny ghost and his two teeny tiny black cats and join him at his school where he is trying unsuccessfully to learn the ropes of haunting. He howls and he yeowls, boos and whoo-ooes but he consistently succeeds only in scaring himself silly. He hears some suspicious sounds and sees some spooky lights and shadows on Halloween and when the teeny tiny black cats get scared he rises to the challenge, faces his own fears and lets loose with his best, bone-chilling racket to scare away the spooks. A wonderful revelation results! Join in the fun and share these adorably comic illustrations with your children this Halloween. It's sure to become a favorite.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	RDSQ5BM8V4CP2	0152020047	956007042	The Bones of Fred McFee	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ghoulish, Ghastly Glee!	This book might not be for very little ones because even though the text is pretty simple, the story has a spooky mysterious flavor to it.  It is filled with exciting Halloween imagery and the rhyming words of the text flow well to help the story build to its ghostly conclusion. A brother and sister get a realistic-looking plastic skeleton at the fair and they hang it up in a tree for Halloween decoration. Their imaginations begin to run wild (or is it their imaginations?) They can hear the eery clacking of the skeleton's bones as the wind blows through the bare tree branches.  They have named their skeleton Fred McFee and they suspect that he may be doing more than just his dance of the dead. Why does the old dog, Sam, stay away from the tree where the skeleton is hanging? Why have the hens stopped laying and where has the old rooster gone? After one particularly windy night Fred McFee himself disappears! Where he went, no one knows for certain.  Maybe that bare spot of ground is his grave! Maybe he's even here now, haunting and clackety clacking his ghoulish dance. When the wind is blowing in the dark and the tree branches are clacking together, shhhh....is that Fred McFee?! Enjoy this atmospheric and imaginative story and its wonderful, lively illustrations and explore the delicious fun of scaring yourself silly with your kids. Beware of Fred McFee!	2002-08-21
US	41125812	RKQCXCUHZORKT	0439367409	407016863	Wee Witches' Halloween (Read with Me Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	First Prize Goes to the Wee Witches!	Catchy rhymes, colorful comic illustrations and a surprise ending make this book a fun Halloween treat. Meet the wee witches as they go off to Scaring School in preparation for their big debut on Halloween Night. Their school bus is a pumpkin driven by a smiling ghost. Their charming warty nosed teachers put them through their paces as they learn to screech and fly a broom from tomb to tomb.  They get very good at their craft but they do such a good job at the local Harvest Fair that they are awarded first prize in the costume contest! This is more than they can bear! Oh the shame of it! This book will have kids laughing and is a fine non-scary Halloween romp.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	R2RKTYSGFWZHVQ	073870072X	476362771	2003 Magical Almanac (Annuals - Magical Almanac)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Another Splendid Edition!	The 2003 edition of the Llewellyn Magical Almanac maintains the tradition of excellence we have come to expect from this useful, inspirational, entertaining and insightful tool. The actual Almanac section that contains calendar, time changes, lunar phases, moon signs, full moons, Sabbats, world holidays, incense and color of the day is useful for all manner of magical planning, as ever.<br />  This year's edition is divided into four seasonal sections with a host of informative and entertaining articles written by members of the pagan community, some quite well known like Ed Fitch, Edain McCoy, and deTraci Regula, and others perhaps not so well known but fully experienced and versed in pagan practice and tradition like Magenta Griffith and Jim Weaver, both excellent writers and scholars, non pareil. This satisfyingly thick edition contains 80 articles and numerous characteristic black and white drawings and features a beautiful cover illustration of the Green Man and four Celtic-styled drawings symbolic of the four elements.<br />  A broad range of topics including various spells, rituals, meditations, folklore, recipes and craft ideas make this book useful year after year and not only in 2003. Learn about using a magical intermediary or playing card divination in the Winter Section. Stir up some love magic or discover fairies of the animals in Spring. Summer delivers the folklore of roses as well as the magic of dandelions.  Ever hear of Buffy, Summer Goddess of the Gym? Check her out here. Brush up on some feline folklore in the Fall, do a toe-ring charging spell, learn meal blessings, and meet up with Caloria, Fall Goddess of Potluck!<br />  Whether, experienced pagan or a curious new-comer this book is filled with useful information and fun facts that you are sure to find enjoyable.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	R2WX7EUEVVNANE	0823413209	353339577	Too Many Pumpkins	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Pumpkins Galore!	Rebecca Estelle has a problem on her hands. Rebecca Estelle is a white-haired woman who lives with her calico cat Esmeralda. She hates pumpkins because when she was a youngster her family was poor and ALL they had to eat was pumpkins. She doesn't even like to think about them. One day a truck loaded with pumpkins loses a pumpkin that smashes in Rebecca Estelle's yard and sends seeds flying every which way. When plants spring up she refuses to tend to them and just ignores them all summer long. She won't even go over near the space where the pumpkin smashed. In autumn, much to her surprise there is a huge pumpkin patch just filled with beautiful big orange pumpkins. At first she is horrified. There is a SEA of pumpkins! She uses her clever ingeniuity and her practical good sense to figure out a wonderful way to not only use up the pumpkins, but to attract many people to help her share the pumpkins. She ends up with a delightful party atmosphere, sharing a happy Halloween and she patches up her differences with pumpkins. The illustrations are utterly charming, brightly colored and filled with warm and homey country scenes. The feeling of autumn's hazy nostalgia and the wonderful aromas of harvest baking almost leap up out of the pages. Parents will enjoy reading this one every year at Halloween and the kids will love it for years to come.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	RDO1J7M8FC1T3	0316795232	249621220	The Dreamtime Fairies	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Don't Be Afraid of the Dark	Simple but lively text tells the story of big sister Lucy (a natural born story teller herself) and the way that she helps her little brother, Jamie, overcome his fear of the dark. Charming, big bright illustrations, many of them full double page spreads show the journey that Lucy, Jamie and their bedtime friends Bear and Floppy Rabbit take to find the land of the Dreamtime Fairies.  Lucy thinks the Dreamtime Fairies will know how Jamie can fall asleep without being scared.  They meet lots of charming characters in the process and all have suggestions to help Jamie but nothing works quite right until they finally do meet the dreamtime fairies. This book is so lovely and filled with tender loving images that it is sure to help soothe and comfort any little one who gets spooked by nighttime shadows on the walls.  It offers a whimsical and positive solution for a youngster whose imagination gets stuck in the dark places at nighty-night time and gives them their own built-in nightlight to switch on at will. Sweet.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	R2YN2OGUOHKUDP	0689801297	73746795	Big Pumpkin	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Big Pumpkin! Big Fun!	This is a funny, charming Halloween story that introduces some of the traditional frightening monsters of Halloween like a green-faced witch, vampire, ghost, bat, and a mummy but in a non-scary fun-filled way.  A delightful old witch plants a seed and grows a huge pumpkin because she has plans for making pumpkin pie.  The pumpkin gets so big that she can't get it off the vine and down to her house to make it into a pie. As she struggles, successive passers-by stop to help because they also want some yummy pie. The witch, vampire, ghost and mummy all try using brawn and fail but a clever little bat saves the day with his idea rather than his strength. All the characters are drawn with such a light-hearted and comical approach that there is no scare to them at all, only a funny sense of helpfulness to reach that big goal, a pumpkin pie! You haven't seen a vampire until you've seen one enjoying a bite of pumpkin pie with those incisors and smiling at the same time! Big fun.	2002-08-21
US	41125812	R10B6R6VJFCM08	0694011770	846976099	Five Little Pumpkins (Harper Growing Tree)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Festive Halloween Board Book	This board book with wipe-clean covers and pages is a delightful Halloween romp featuring the five famous little pumpkins of the familiar gradeschool song. Bright double page illustrations showing the five different jack-o-lanterns tell the tale of Halloween night that begins with the pumpkins \\"sitting on a gate\\" and finishes up with them \\"rolling out of sight.\\" Simple but fun-filled witches on broomsticks, a black cat, and whispy smiling ghosts join in the fun. This book is rated for the ages of 1 1/2 and up and is basic and short enough to hold the attention of a very little one but can be used to learn reciting or singing.  It is a nice touch for Halloween because there is no scariness in it and lots of smiling, bright colored action to follow. Sure to be a family favorite.	2002-08-20
US	41125812	RR2LHJE28DM	1567187196	936756685	Halloween! (Holiday Series)	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Respect For Samhain While Celebrating Halloween Fun	This book combines excellent scholarship with creativity and a joyful sense of fun. It explores the popular holiday of Halloween as well as the more serious and spiritual side of the pagan sabbat Samhain.  You don't have to be a pagan to enjoy this book because it has many, many lighthearted and clever ideas that will entertain even if Halloween is purely a fun night of make-believe for you. Fortunately it takes Samhain seriously enough to be satisfactory to pagans who require a bit more substance in this holiday's revels. Interspersed with seasonal artwork the book starts out with a thorough look at Samhain and Halloween history.  Customs and traditions such as Jack-o-lanterns, trick-or-treating, bonfires, among others are discussed.  Superstitions and many Halloween symbols are detailed.  The chapter on divination is informative and lots of fun.  Colorful kitchen witchery offers up some delicious recipes that are wonderful for parties or just for seasonal family fare. A meaningful and enjoyable section on Halloween Magick shares ideas for spells, blessings, charms, and ritual.  An important aspect of Samhain, that of honoring the dead, is discussed with helpful ideas for adding meaning and respectful reflection.  Many delightful poems from various sources grace the opening chapter pages and they in turn can be used when crafting one's own sabbat rituals.<br />  This book does not tippy-toe around and pretend to be a book that won't offend anyone.  It is a book by a Wiccan for other Wiccans but as always, the door is open, step through and enjoy as you will.	2002-08-06
US	41125812	R31HHZ4MSLZBAL	1565547748	421227483	Halloween How-To, A: Costumes, Parties, Decorations, and Destinations	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Scare Yourself Silly	Before some of my pagan friends get all upset, this book is about the All-American style hauntingly fun holiday, Halloween, not Samhain, not All Souls' Night, not All Hallows Eve though there are brief sketches about these feast days in the introduction.  This is about trick-or-treat night! Haunted house week! Dress up and pretend night for grown-ups! Run around in the dark with the full moon sailing behind you night!<br /> This book is a delightful compendium of ideas that are refreshingly clever, from easy to semi-difficult, and are very useful in creating a Halloween atmosphere of macabre fun and celebration.  Many of the ideas will work well for both kids' and adults' parties, but most of them are geared toward adults. There are not a lot of photos in this book and the ones that are here are black and white, but this is a book where the text is inspiring and where you will have a delightful time reading over the creative ideas almost as if you are brainstorming with a friend who is as in love with this mad-cap holiday as you are.<br /> There are chapters on decorating the house and yard, all about pumpkins, do-it-yourself costumes, parties, music and movies, recipes, actual expeditions to haunted locations, myths and monsters.<br /> The decoration ideas are not the same old tired ones we are used to seeing and are easy to create since the directions are so thorough. There's even a long list of clever epitaphs for your frontyard gravestones. The pumpkin chapter is loaded with wonderful ideas that even a modest reveller will be able to implement, plus legends and how-tos.  Really innovative, funny, spooky and easy costumes are found in abundance in this book...did you know bird-seed makes the best false bosom?  Need a recipe for some good fake blood? It's in here. Choose from quick and easy blood, soaking and spreading blood, or cheap two ingredient blood with a bit of concentrated coffee for realism. Do you want dead skin, rotting skin, or old wrinkled skin? No problem.<br />  Customize your Halloween party with any of these ideas and you will go down in history as a great party host or hostess.  Why not try them all and land yourself in the Partier Hall of Fame! Invitations, theme party ideas, games that are actually fun, fortunes and favors, sound effects, lighting...it's all here.<br />  There are over 20 pages of really excellent recipes for party foods that are not only visually satisfying for Halloween fun but taste delicious, too. There's a good listing of classic Halloween horror videos broken down into categories, a list of spooky classical music for Halloween atmosphere, a list of the best Halloween scary stories, and a list of places to visit where pros do it up big in theatrical haunted houses.  There's even a list of places reputed to actually be haunted..if you have the courage!<br />  Even if you have never really done much to get in the Halloween spirit before, this book is sure to infect you with the Halloween bug.  The author clearly loves this holiday and she passes that love on to us with excitement and wonderful creativity.  Don't miss it!blem.<BR>  Customize your Halloween party with any of these ideas and you will go down in history as a great party host or hostess.  Why not try them all and land yourself in the Partier Hall of Fame! Invitations, theme party ideas, games that are actually fun, fortunes and favors, sound effects, lighting...it's all here.<BR>  There are over 20 pages of really excellent recipes for party foods that are not only visually satisfying for Halloween fun but taste delicious, too. There's a good listing of classic Halloween horror videos broken down into categories, a list of spooky classical music for Halloween atmosphere, a list of the best Halloween scary stories, and a list of places to visit where pros do it up big in theatrical haunted houses.  There's even a list of places reputed to actually be haunted..if you have the courage!<BR>  Even if you have never really done much to get in the Halloween spirit before, this book is sure to infect you with the Halloween bug.  The author clearly loves this holiday and she passes that love on to us with excitement and wonderful creativity.  Don't miss it!	2002-08-06
US	41125812	RX57V3ISSXTBT	0590464639	531103244	The Biggest Pumpkin Ever	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Growing Together	This is a fun Halloween story that Kindergarten through 3rd grade kids will enjoy.  It traces the growing season of one special pumpkin from its start as a very tiny green bump on a vine to a huge carved jack-o-lantern that wins the town pumpkin contest.  The pumpkin becomes the biggest and best pumpkin in the whole town and wins the contest because two mouse friends, Clayton and Desmond, without realizing it, are both taking care of it.  They both fertilize it and water it throughout the summer. They both protect it from frost in the autumn.  The pumpkin gets a double helping of TLC.  When the huge pumpkin is finally ready it is too big for one mouse to haul it the contest so the two mice (who have finally discovered each other) work together and share the prize and the fun.  The characters are engaging, the illustrations are very cute and the story is about sharing, caring, nurturing and co-operating.  This book has the wonderful added benefit of teaching exactly how to grow a really HUGE pumpkin that a real child can try in their own pumpkin patch with great success, including some secret tricks one might not know about that will surprise and amaze.	2002-08-02
US	41125812	R1SB4Z2TKS0YTM	0875421245	257870919	The Magical Household: Spells & Rituals for the Home (Llewellyn's Practical Magick Series)	Books	4	85	85	N	N	Mindfulness of One's Surroundings	This book is like all of Scott Cunningham's books, easy to understand, helpful, creative, basic yet founded on deeper knowledge.  It has a lot of interesting lore and folk magic and much Feng Shui type of ideas.  It discusses correspondences in good detail. It has information on cleansings and purifications, pets and plants, the household altar, the hearth or &quot;heart&quot; of the home, furnishings, moving, protection, the bath and the kitchen...even the garage.  It is useful and grounded and homey. It will aid in focusing intent and provide inspiration for making one's dwelling into one's truly magical and personal home.  Most of us, whether witch or not, instinctively surround ourselves with little &quot;magics&quot; that help us to feel comfortable and in &quot;our own space.&quot;  This book puts some thoughtfulness and understanding to the concept of personalizing our space and encourages creative and harmonious atmosphere where good vibrations abound.  Try it. You'll like it.	2002-07-09
US	41125812	R2CPQUOMD0MQ9U	1556706529	773652952	Bewitched: Titania's Book of Love Spells	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Take What You Need &amp; Leave the Rest!	This is a book that is not, strictly speaking, politically correct, don't ya know. I don't care.  I love it!  It's whimsical, fun and clever. It's pretty (the hardcover edition has a red suede cover.)  The witch who wrote it shares dozens of spells for the various aspects of love such as finding a lover, moving from flirtation to the next level, dealing with third parties, marriage, passion and long lasting relationships.  The bright, beautiful and creative photographs that accompany each spell are inspiring.  Love spells are very touchy business. Tampering with the free will of another is a huge NO-NO! Do not do it. A couple of these spells tippy-toe too close to tampering, so carefully use your own good judgment as in all things.  I think this book is one of the best examples of the myriad uses of sympathetic magic and it offers some splendid ideas that can enable one's own creative juices to flow.  It encourages concentration and creative visualization. It does use the word &quot;enthrall&quot; once in discussing a lover's attention which is perhaps a bad choice of words.  Magic should NEVER EVER be used to enthrall anyone.  It uses the term &quot;white witchcraft&quot; which I personally do not like, but all in all, the discussion of magical ideals and practices is quite sound in this book and even though I think it might have been devised to sell the trendy idea of &quot;magical powers&quot; and &quot;love potions&quot; to the uninitiated and uninformed masses, it does not change the fact that the author's demonstration of sympathetic magic is astute and very well illustrated in this book.	2002-07-09
US	41125812	R2FTWY8G10Y4IY	0738700940	303170197	Lammas: Celebrating the Fruits of the First Harvest	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Complete, Scholarly, Practical and Fun	It is true that the Llewellyn series of books on the pagan Sabbats is a mixed bag with some of the eight books being light-weight, some being useful and some, as in this case, being excellent in every way.  Each of the books should be judged on an individual basis.  This title has a thorough introduction and much history and lore on the subject of the pagan holiday or Sabbat called Lammas or Lughnasadh.  The writing is engaging and well-researched and very informative. It discusses among others the customs of well dressing, Telltown marriages, handfastings, and Highland games.  It provides good detail on the myth of the Celtic god Lugh from whom one name for this holiday is derived. It discusses similar harvest festivals and practices from other cultures around the world. It provides a well-rounded view of this holiday and does not depict it only as a harvest festival but includes the lesser-known aspects of competition, gaming, warrior activities, divination and the lore of the Ash tree.  Even a well-read and experienced pagan is likely to find new and interesting insights in this book. It contains a good section on Lammas traditional foods that include Boxty Scones that I can personally attest to as being delicious. The craft section of this book has many seasonal crafts that are fun and easy, including the familiar and traditonal craft of making corn dollies.  There are recipes for making incense and herbal dyes. The chapter on Warrior magic is filled with evocative and colorful crafts as well.  Several simple but meaningful rituals are also included, adaptable for personal Sabbat celebrations.<br />  The book is thorough and though not a beginner's book, certainly helpful and easily understood. It makes keeping this Sabbat a deeper experience and I think it will be much appreciated by the serious pagan. It is an interesting look at lesser-known cultural customs even for the non-pagan and can aid significantly in one's appreciation of the subtle turning of the wheel of the year.l of the year.	2002-07-09
US	41125812	R3PFWKA4NRQ6SX	0875421857	950755431	Spell Crafts: Creating Magical Objects (Llewellyn's Practical Magic)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Ideas and Practical Help	If you are a crafty person there's always some joy to be found in other crafter's ideas. I bought this book because of the great instructions for making corn dollies and found that the brief chapter on wheat is really useful. There are several nice potpourri recipes in here. I enjoyed the short and thoughtful essay on the true meaning of craft. Some of it may seem way too simplistic such as the chapter on making flower garlands...basically you get some thread and a needle and some flowers and you string the flowers...uh...okay. There are directions for sand painting, hex signs, making an ojo or \\"god's eye\\" weaving, and some other Campfire Girl-type stuff that would be fun to share with kids.<br /> Like all of Scott Cunningham's books this is very basic and geared toward the beginner. It has good direction that can lead to a better understanding for the beginner of the mindfulness and intent that makes putzing with stuff into a Craft that is magically satisfying, useful and fun.	2002-07-09
US	41125812	R2V7HDKARR49R1	0394729846	704063168	You and Your Cat	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Truly Complete, User Friendly, Too	I have nine cats and I also do rescue work with stray and feral cats so I really appreciate all of the useful and easily accessible advice and information in this wonderful book.  It was written by a leading British veterinarian and the differences in national attitude toward cats is evident and rather interesting (I prefer the more humane British outlook.)<br />  The book contains virtually everything one needs to know to choose and care for a domestic cat as a pet.  There is a thorough section with beautiful photographs of all the different breeds, coat and color variations. There is ample information on grooming, feeding and nutrition and  everyday care.  It has unique diagnostic charts that show how to spot signs of illness and gives practical ideas for first aid and home care as well as advice on when to call the vet.  It has a really great section on pregnancy and kitten care.  The information in this book enabled me to save the life of a first born kitten born to an inexperienced queen that was abandoned by the confused young mother and left to get very cold and weak.  I immersed it up to its neck in a bowl of warm water and massaged it according to the book's directions and \\"Lazarus\\" went on to become a very beautiful long-haired charcoal gray cat with four white socks, a plump and happy family pet. When my husband first found him laying on the kitchen floor he thought the kitten was already dead.<br />  This book is chock-full of good advice that is well-indexed and easy to locate. It covers every aspect of a cat's health and life including feline personality and behavior.  There are many good books on cat care and I've read a great many of them but this one is still my favorite and has given me the most help in understanding and caring for these delightful animals.	2002-07-08
US	41125812	R2QEUDLM9TNK8K	0787945145	391937860	Ritalin Is Not The Answer: A Drug-Free, Practical Program for Children Diagnosed with ADD or ADHD	Books	5	43	55	N	N	One Pill Makes You Larger and One Pill Makes You Small....	\\"One pill makes you larger and one pill makes you small, but the ones the doctor gives you don't do anything at all.\\"  I'm being jokingly sarcastic but the experiences my step-son and I had with ADHD and Ritalin were not far from this.  My step-son came into my life as a high school senior who had been diagnosed as ADHD ten years earlier and who had been on Ritalin that whole time. He came to me because he had attempted suicide and after his release from the hospital he needed somewhere to go. His mother had \\"had it with him.\\" He was in the ED and LD program at school, getting F's in every single class, had \\"no hope\\" of graduating according to his LD teachers, could not read above a 3rd grade level, was disruptive, rude, and inattentive. So, why, I asked myself is he still on Ritalin when it obviously isn't helping? He was unable to eat much, having no appetite, and was underweight and nervous. He acted out in school and had no respect for anyone.  I weaned him off the Ritalin and the Zoloft he took because of Ritalin induced depression. The ideas I found outlined in this book were and are an enormous help to us and it is my earnest prayer that every parent who is either allowing or considering the use of Ritalin or other mood-altering drugs on their children read this book and think long and hard about it before deciding to continue with the chemical restraint method. You have one easy book to read but your child has a lifetime of misery with which to contend. Please be educated on the subject.<br />  We learn in this book that nearly one-tenth of all school-aged kids in the U.S. are being given stimulant drugs with side effects that include insomnia, tearfulness, rebound irritability, personality change, nervousness, anorexia, nausea, dizziness, headaches,heart palpitations, and cardiac arrhytmia. Millions of children are taking speed, the same class 2 drug that dopers on the street have been getting high on and getting arrested for taking and selling for decades. Speed is illegal to take without perscription because it is dangerous even life-threatening. Dr. Stein, himself a practicing clinical psychologist and father of two sons who were diagnosed with ADD points out, in very clear, compassionate and thoughtful terms, seven misconceptions or myths surrounding attentional disorders. He carefully explains the dangers of chemical restraints and also talks about their monumental ineffectivness.  He offers very sound and proven and actually common sense approaches for the effective parenting of not only the ADD and ADHD kids who so desperately need it but also for each and every child growing up.<br />  This book does require that as a parent we take responsibility, we slow down, we modify our own behaviors, and we do this with consistency. It can be hard to modify our own behavior, let alone that of our troubled children, but we must stop relying on a dangerous little pill to modify and restrain creative, unique and individual children into a national army of speed freaks. Don't kid yourself if you are believing that a perscription and a doctor you see once in awhile make the difference between safe \\"medicine\\" and drug abuse. Speed is speed, with a perscription or not, and it can make your mind work in an obsessive way that seems like attention.  It makes you euphoric and it seems like quieter behavior. It also disrupts the way you eat and nourish your body, it causes nervousness and dizziness and it makes you eventually paranoid, aggressive, intolerant, and downright squirrely.  It never, ever makes you normal, whatever that is.  Schools and Physicians are willing to settle for the dangers and the misery for our children in order to get the attention and quiet they need to control over-crowded schools with robotic and mind-numbing curriculum.<br />  This book is frank on the subject of the dangers versus the benefits of stimulant chemical restraints like Ritalin. It is straight-up with us about our culture's move away from the family values many of us grew up with.  It causes us to re-examine our own approach and understanding of this condition that is labeled ADD and ADHD as if it were a disease which it is not.  Best of all it gives us ideas and useful, practical directions to help get ourselves and most importantly our children back on track to a happy and stable life. There is also an interactive companion to this book called The Ritalin Is Not the Answer Action Guide that makes its ADD/ADHD parenting program even more workable and undestandable.<br />  My step-son graduated with straight B's. He has no trouble with authority or the community with disorderly conduct as he frequently did while on Ritalin.  He went to Prom and has a healthy relationship with his girlfriend and her family. He doesn't drink or use drugs. He follows the household rules and keeps reasonable hours. He smiles and laughs and eats big cheeseburgers and pizza like the healthy young adult he is. His hands don't shake. His nightmares have stopped. His teachers told me I am an amazing parent and they can't believe the changes in my step-son.  Well, I am NOT an amazing parent.  The only things I did differently were take my son off speed and I DID believe in the changes I saw in my son as we worked through the suggestions in this book. It can't hurt to read it and it CAN hurt to keep your child on Ritalin. I hope it helps you and your child.r culture's move away from the family values many of us grew up with.  It causes us to re-examine our own approach and understanding of this condition that is labeled ADD and ADHD as if it were a disease which it is not.  Best of all it gives us ideas and useful, practical directions to help get ourselves and most importantly our children back on track to a happy and stable life. There is also an interactive companion to this book called The Ritalin Is Not the Answer Action Guide that makes its ADD/ADHD parenting program even more workable and undestandable.  <BR>   My step-son graduated with straight B's. He has no trouble with authority or the community with disorderly conduct as he frequently did while on Ritalin.  He went to Prom and has a healthy relationship with his girlfriend and her family. He doesn't drink or use drugs. He follows the household rules and keeps reasonable hours. He smiles and laughs and eats big cheeseburgers and pizza like the healthy young adult he is. His hands don't shake. His nightmares have stopped. His teachers told me I am an amazing parent and they can't believe the changes in my step-son.  Well, I am NOT an amazing parent.  The only things I did differently were take my son off speed and I DID believe in the changes I saw in my son as we worked through the suggestions in this book. It can't hurt to read it and it CAN hurt to keep your child on Ritalin. I hope it helps you and your child.	2002-07-01
US	41125812	R14FZ57VLCWZFB	0892816058	213814572	Sacred Woman, Sacred Dance: Awakening Spirituality Through Movement and Ritual	Books	5	46	52	N	N	Dancing With the Universe	Many years ago when I first realized in a crystalline moment that I was one with the Universe, I was alone in a dew-wet field at sunrise with a very large old tree, and I suddenly and gently percieved that the tree was dancing with the Universe and I allowed myself to join in the dance. Ever since that time dance has been an important part of my spiritual expression and discovery. I am pleased to have come across this wonderful book by Iris J. Stewart because it is a treasure for any dancing soul. It is filled with inspiring illustrations from ancient to modern times of dance as a soulful pursuit of sacred knowledge. The author, herself a dancer, has written beautifully about her own experiences awakening to the spiritual aspects of movement as well as the history and applications of this creative and feminine form of spiritual expression. She introduces the reader to the dancing Goddess and the dancing Priestesses. She introduces us to some of the pioneer dancing divas like Isadora Duncan and Martha Graham and Mata Hari. We meet women from many cultures dancing evocative and colorful prayers to the Goddess. She inspires and invites us to allow ourselves to be moved and to follow that impulse into movement. She shows some of the many applications of the dance in theology, and in the art of healing, expressing lament, and in celebrating the coming of age among other creative uses. She has fresh and moving ideas for creating rites and offers descriptions of dances one can perform for moon rites and labyrinth meditations. She discusses the role of costumes and drumming. There is a brilliant chapter on the Dance of the Elements with lively and clear instructions for each of Earth, Air, Water, and Fire. The back of the book has a thorough list of resources that include addresses, phone numbers and websites that are concerned with sacred dance including a list of pilgrimage/study tours. The writing is so interesting and filled with details about the female experience of the sacred that even if one is not particularly interested in dance one will still be enriched by this contact with women for whom it is a part of Life. I recommend it to any woman who wishes to know herself better and to thereby know her sisters better. It is a joyous expression of the feminine vibration and one that should not be missed.he sacred that even if one is not particularly interested in dance one will still be enriched by this contact with women for whom it is a part of Life. I recommend it to any woman who wishes to know herself better and to thereby know her sisters better. It is a joyous expression of the feminine vibration and one that should not be missed.	2002-06-23
US	41125812	R3A4DSSJKQE7W8	0375752684	447938051	Meetings with Remarkable Trees	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Green People You'll Be Pleased To Meet	This quality book contains large photographs and interesting historical text concerning sixty eccentric, distinctive and unforgettably beautiful huge old trees. You might think that a book about trees would be dull. Some of us do take trees for granted but this book will not fail to impress you and cause you to re-examine the individual beauty that each tree exhibits. Imagine the ancient yew tree beneath whose branches legend says conspirators plotted the murder of Mary, Queen of Scots' 2nd husband,the Earl of Darnley. You have to crawl under its drooping gnarled branches like you are entering an igloo. The dome they create is 60 feet high and 400 feet in circumference. The photograph is taken from inside this arboreal dome and we are treated to the light peeking through the ancient branches. We feel we are in a magical place indeed. As one who is growing a baby Yew so small that I can easily step over her while watering the garden, this enormous old Yew inspires and amazes me. It is only one of SIXTY similar treasures of Nature this book shares. Take the tour!	2002-06-15
US	41125812	RH6BXG879M4B0	1590030192	523322385	The Green Man: Spirit of Nature	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Evoking the Spirit of Nature	This is a wonderful little gift set that contains a sculpted plaque of the Green Man and a colorful and detailed hard cover book about the Green Man in history, legend, myth and in modern times.  The artistry used in creating the plaque is excellent and the deep dark green face of this god of the Green World is happily wild and makes a wonderful addition to a home where Nature is respected and loved.<br />  The book, though small, contains an abundance of information and photographs and images from art of the Green Man in his various guises. John Matthews, one of the leading authorities on the subject of the Green Man treats us to a good sampling of the attributes of this Spirit of Nature as he describes his influence in the art and spirituality of several cultures from around the world. He traces the Green Man from his early roots among ancient agrarian peoples to his fame as a decorative device upon countless cathedrals and other buildings throughout the world. The book also tells of the resurgance of The Green Man's popularity in modern times and his role in the protection of the threatened green world. There is a lovely \\"walking meditation\\" included in the book and many suggestions on how to incorporate the Green Man into your own spiritual life. In the back of the book is a list of locations throughout the world where the Green Man can be spotted.<br />  My favorite part of the book is the lovely selection of photographs of the various interpretations of the Green Man. This is a perfect gift set for anyone interested in the Green Man or in Ecology.  Gardeners will love it.  People embarking on new beginnings will be blessed by it. Old friends of the Green Man will welcome it and people who are meeting him for the first time will be treated to a wonderful introduction.  I recommend it.	2002-05-26
US	41125812	R1A3AS61TT0JTG	0061057940	245737919	The Rift	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Life in the China Shop After the Bull Shows Up	I thoroughly enjoyed this book but I thought of putting it down several times in the 180 pages of character development that precede any action.  There are several story lines deftly woven together in this book and in the end I admit it was probably necessary to take up those 180 pages, so hang in there. It's worth it. The book centers around a huge 8.9 quake that takes place along the New Madrid fault in the midwest. It throws the mighty Mississippi right out of its course and generally creates havoc and mayhem.  It is a successful \\"disaster\\" story with bad guys and heroes galore plus lots of ordinary folk that we can relate to as well. The nine central characters are all sufficiently unique to present a good cross-section of human nature so that we are treated to a well-rounded speculative look at the ramifications of the failure of our society's systems and their effects on individuals.  Throughout the book there are quotations from historical documents of the last earthquake on the New Madrid that took place in 1812 which while horrible elude to even greater horrors of the impending disaster of a large scale quake in our more complex and populated world.<br />  The story lines expose several small fractures in our own society such as fundamentalism and the malice of white supremacy that are similar in their own ways to building a nuclear power plant over a major fault line. The plot shows us how foolish our failure to pay attention is and how easily these threats can one day open up and swallow us whole. While imprisoned by crazed KKK members a black man answers the frantic querey of \\"Why?!\\" by saying \\"Because somebody overlooked this damn place, overlooked it for a century, probably.  All it took for death to take a grip on a community was a handful of crazy people and a lot of other people who weren't paying attention.\\"<br />  The book is well researched and very scary in its implications. Industry and expediency have caused us to build and invest and grow our civilization right over top of one of the most unstable places on Earth with our usual short-sighted \\"it can't happen here\\" attitude and our wishful thinking. There is and has been, for a very long time, plenty of evidence that a disaster of overwhelming proportions is inevidable but we have systematically chosen not to pay attention to the facts.<br />  This book makes for very exciting and entertaining reading. It is full of edge of the seat action and thought-provoking ideas and insights.  The characters are rich in detail and the message that floats in and out between the lines is a powerful one. I recommend it.ilization right over top of one of the most unstable places on Earth with our usual short-sighted \\"it can't happen here\\" attitude and our wishful thinking. There is and has been, for a very long time, plenty of evidence that a disaster of overwhelming proportions is inevidable but we have systematically chosen not to pay attention to the facts.  <BR>  This book makes for very exciting and entertaining reading. It is full of edge of the seat action and thought-provoking ideas and insights.  The characters are rich in detail and the message that floats in and out between the lines is a powerful one. I recommend it.	2002-05-15
US	41125812	R3G7S0EM5W2QHB	0060247983	795566350	My World: A Companion to Goodnight Moon	Books	3	20	30	N	N	Pretend You Can't Read And Just Look At the Pictures	This book is not very good to tell you the truth.  The writing is too simplistic even for a very young reader or story-listener and it is choppy and doesn't flow well.  The book is, of course, by the famous team who brought us the Runaway Bunny and Goodnight Moon and so I expected a lot from it and was disappointed.  However, it is certainly worth looking at because the artwork is so wonderful and we get to see lots and lots more details from the family of bunnies that we met in Goodnight Moon.  Any child who has loved the soothing tones of that book will delight in the daytime activities and will have fun pouring over the details in this book.  I enjoyed seeing what the Papa Bunny looked like! This really is not the classic that the others are but that doesn't mean it's not a worthy addition to your library. The illustrations alone are a treat and will be loved by all. Enjoy it for what it offers and if nothing else just put your self in the shoes of millions of little kids...pretend you can't read! Don't let reading stop you from enjoying the warmth and fun of the loving Bunny family. It would really be  a shame to miss this.	2002-05-02
US	41125812	R2MCDRX8Z8U6DP	0306808226	293062670	Lost Bird Of Wounded Knee: Spirit Of The Lakota	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Zintkala Nuni, the Lost Bird	In December 1890 the United States of America massacred an unarmed band of Lakota men, women and children at Wounded Knee, South Dakota. Most of them were starving and many of them were very ill. They were cut down like prey in the bitter snows of the Badlands and it was a sad day for Human Beings, one of many days I can never get out of my heart. There was a tiny miracle that day. A little baby girl survived unharmed, protected were she fell, by the body of her murdered mother. She was taken in by other Lakota people but Brigadier General and future Assistant District Attorney of the United States, Leonard W. Colby kidnapped and then adopted the baby as a &quot;living curio.&quot; This murderous, inhumane and corrupt man wanted a little souvenir so he stole a human being, a helpless infant, and ripped her away from her people and her culture. He exploited her to attract prominent tribes as clients of his law practice. His wife, Clara B. Colby, who later divorced him was a prominent suffragist and newspaper editor. She tried to give this little Lost Bird a stable home and she meant well but she could never replace the Lakota ways or help Lost Bird to fit in to an alien and inhumane world. Lost Bird, whose real name was Zintkala Nuni only lived to be 29 years old and her short life was filled with pain and degradation and tragedy. She suffered sexual abuse, violence, prostitution and rejection. She was a being caught between two worlds and accepted in neither. The author of this book has done a wonderful job of bringing this poignant story to light. She illustrates the atmosphere of the times and offers rich insight into the insidious racism of the America of that time. This is a story of not only the cruelty that was done to the Native peoples of this land but of the misogynous, unscrupulous and socially unjust attitudes and actions of the leaders and people of this country. It is a testiment to endurance, a chronicle of tragedy. In 1991 Zintkala Nuni was returned from her burial place in California to Wounded Knee on the Pine Ridge Reservation in the Badlands of South Dakota. She was buried with respect and ceremony among her people. Last summer I drove past the crowded impoverished homes to pay my respects to the people who died that day at Wounded Knee. I saw the harsh reality of the ancient gray hills of the Badlands with their ghostly beauty. I saw the offerings and prayer bundles in the burial grounds. I talked with two men selling souvenirs, trying to make a few dollars in a place where work is so hard to find. The arrogance and greed that murdered so many people, that stole a little girl from her people, that sought to cripple and defeat a powerful People is still alive and walking in the land but it has not succeeded. This book may help people to feel the injustice in their heart of hearts. It may illuminate our past and open our eyes to the injustice we still condone, many of us, with our silence. It is a powerful and moving story, well told.rom her burial place in California to Wounded Knee on the Pine Ridge Reservation in the Badlands of South Dakota. She was buried with respect and ceremony among her people. Last summer I drove past the crowded impoverished homes to pay my respects to the people who died that day at Wounded Knee. I saw the harsh reality of the ancient gray hills of the Badlands with their ghostly beauty. I saw the offerings and prayer bundles in the burial grounds. I talked with two men selling souvenirs, trying to make a few dollars in a place where work is so hard to find. The arrogance and greed that murdered so many people, that stole a little girl from her people, that sought to cripple and defeat a powerful People is still alive and walking in the land but it has not succeeded. This book may help people to feel the injustice in their heart of hearts. It may illuminate our past and open our eyes to the injustice we still condone, many of us, with our silence. It is a powerful and moving story, well told.	2002-04-03
US	41125812	R32YW579GYDT9R	0964541610	753288810	Crop Circle Cards, The Living Oracle	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Oddly Enough This DOES Seem to Be a Living Oracle	I got this deck and book set because I'm interested in crop circles and also in oracle cards. Yeah, yeah, yeah...the box said it was a \\"Living Oracle.\\" Aren't they all? It was shrink-wrapped at the store where I got it and so I couldn't actually see the cards or the book that comes with this deck. When I got the set home and unwrapped it, I really thought I paid way too much for it and I felt like it was a rip off. The 64 cards are black and white and have simple graphics. The  4\\" x 4\\" cards are even kind of cheap looking. My set has a couple of cards on which the ink is a bit smudged. The box says it contains a \\"134 page Guidebook.\\" Sounds impressive but the book is printed in very large type and measures only 4\\" x 5 1/4\\". At first I really thought it was a cheesy little thing. There are several different lay-outs in this book as well as upright and reversed descriptions for the meanings of the cards. Each card has a different crop circle pattern. The author had a \\"multidimensional encounter\\" in 1988. She was mandated to produce a special healing oracle system. Evidently, the Sirians are behind this. The cards are supposed to \\"quickly access a client's unconscious and higher-Self in order to accelerate Self-awareness, transformation, and healing\\" according to Ms. Quinly. Well, I don't mind telling you, when I read that statement as well as a few of the stated meanings for the cards, I was just rolling my eyes. My friend and I who both read Tarot professionally were just laughing our heads off and mockingly singing the Led Zeppelin tune as we laid out the \\"Stairway to Heaven\\" spread that's in the book. But guess what...these cards are astonishing...they TALK!  The spreads that we have done using these cards are amazingly insightful and articulate. People grasp the meanings for their lives with clarity and ease. Even though I was prepared to sell these puppies at a rummage sale at first, I now really enjoy and respect this deck.  The book's language is so New Agey that it still just makes me laugh but weirdly enough it's right on. I am enchanted by the whole crop circle phenomenon. I think these mysterious and mystical symbols DO speak to our unconscious. These cards take those enigmatic symbols and place them conveniently at our disposal. I recommend this set of cards and book. Keep an open mind and I think you will be pleasantly surprised as I was when you see how well they work.at it still just makes me laugh but weirdly enough it's right on. I am enchanted by the whole crop circle phenomenon. I think these mysterious and mystical symbols DO speak to our unconscious. These cards take those enigmatic symbols and place them conveniently at our disposal. I recommend this set of cards and book. Keep an open mind and I think you will be pleasantly surprised as I was when you see how well they work.	2002-04-03
US	41125812	R1C1EZF2OYOKV5	1572305606	911940074	Taking Charge of ADHD: The Complete, Authoritative Guide for Parents (Revised Edition)	Books	1	61	122	N	N	Chemical Restraints and Chips and Points	There are several far better researched books than this one on the market concerning ADHD. There are serious and learned differences of opinion on the treatment for ADHD and far more than just some ill-conceived \\"controversy\\", as Dr. Barkley would have us believe, on the subject of the epidemic proportions of stimulant therapy for this condition. Please, do not read this book and proceed on with your decision making process on behalf of your child without reading some of those other books...<br />This book is being called \\"The Complete Authoritative Guide For Parents,\\" which it most assuredly is NOT. This book dismisses the idea that the unbridled and irresponsible wholesale dissemination of stimulants is a bad thing for our children. He systematically takes each serious concern about chemical restraints and dismisses them in a few short sentences with a flippant attitude that these concerns are \\"mythological.\\" He makes the unfounded claim that stimulants are effective in treating ADHD in 50-95% of patients. That claim is almost criminal in its inaccuracy, and could only be considered truthful if using a highly skewed definition of the word \\"effective.\\" The typical \\"chips and points\\" or Token System is highly touted as another effective tool and while it may be useful for some children, it too, has come in to serious question as to it's actual effectiveness and in fact, is seen as a highly ineffective, abnormal, and in fact damaging method of handling the ADHD child or adolescent. My main problem with this book is that the author takes an arrogant, end-all and be-all approach to this complex condition. He makes it seem like this book is the definitive answer and by doing that he is cheating people out of possibly finding alternatives that are healthier and more effective at healing and helping children become effective human beings. This does not even take into consideration that there is vast controversy over the very idea that so many children actually even have ADHD. This book rather than encouraging dialogue or encouraging further study takes a paternalistic, and in my opinion destructive attitude concerning the parenting and nurture of ADHD children, and sadly of children in general. I suggest that rather than buying into the controlling and disabling policies and principles that this book offers as THE way, rather than looking at \\"Taking Charge of ADHD,\\" we should consider taking charge of ADHD drug pushing and abuse. We should, instead, consider taking charge of our schools and our physicians and making them accountable to us, the individual children and parents who are being victimized by the type of system this book promotes. Start by NOT relying solely on this book if you feel you must buy it, borrow or buy as well at least one of the other books I have mentioned, and form your own considered opinion. Our children are not lab rats and they are not \\"problem children.\\" They deserve better than this book offers.D. This book rather than encouraging dialogue or encouraging further study takes a paternalistic, and in my opinion destructive attitude concerning the parenting and nurture of ADHD children, and sadly of children in general. I suggest that rather than buying into the controlling and disabling policies and principles that this book offers as THE way, rather than looking at \\"Taking Charge of ADHD,\\" we should consider taking charge of ADHD drug pushing and abuse. We should, instead, consider taking charge of our schools and our physicians and making them accountable to us, the individual children and parents who are being victimized by the type of system this book promotes. Start by NOT relying solely on this book if you feel you must buy it, borrow or buy as well at least one of the other books I have mentioned, and form your own considered opinion. Our children are not lab rats and they are not \\"problem children.\\" They deserve better than this book offers.	2002-04-03
US	41125812	R29MC4GN02Q8YU	1587171341	720423813	Good Night, Fairies	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Pure Magic!	Husband and wife team, Kathleen and Michael Hague have done it again! I have long been a fan of Michael Hague's lovely evocative illustrations and Kathleen's gentle prose for children but this book really is the perfect combination of their extensive talents. In a flowing script-like font the story takes us on a journey to Fairyland when a child asks his mother to tell him some things about fairy ways just as he is getting tucked into bed for the night. The mother knows lots of secret things about fairies. In Kathleen's light-hearted, kindly prose the mother explains that among many other things, they teach the birds how to sing, gather and care for all the toys that children have lost, comb the mermaids' hair, and dance in the twilight dressed in spiders' lace. Richly colored and filled with exquisite detail the double page illustrations are on every page so there are no dull pages with only text. Beautiful fairies and whimsical little gnomes and pixies crowd each page and engage in the many magics of the fairy realm. Mermaids of different races and ages relax and luxuriate in an ocean cove. There is one tiny fairy with a red cap that is hidden on each page so that a child may have the fun of pouring over the colorful details and searching to find him. The Hagues tell us that there are a total of 321 fairies in this book and challenge us to find all of them. This is a wonderful book to share with a child. I highly recommend it.	2002-03-31
US	41125812	RLIDPEQCDQXNW	0439256356	889559581	Indigo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Loss and Discovery	This lovely novella is emotionally satisfying with just the right balance of magical adventure and thoughtful human drama. It is a tale of three friends, 13 year old Martha and two brothers who are nicknamed Trout and Eel because of some peculiar attributes they posess. The story takes place at a time when Martha is mourning the death of her mother, growing into young adulthood, and coping with her father's grief-related emotional distance. Her best friends are going through some changes of their own and are outcasts in the small community due to unusual physical characteristics. Due to a flood disaster that hit Oak Grove before the kids were even born, pretty much everyone around is fearful of water and the local river is blocked off from town by a wall of stone. Nobody goes swimming even on hot summer days. Trout and Eel are drawn intensely to water and have unusual and astonishing aquatic abilities, all of which make their loving adoptive parents very frightened and exposes mysterious questions about the boys' past. How the three choose to deal with their problems makes for an interesting and moving magical tale of discovery. This is a fantasy allegory of finding one's true self and of love, committment,and true friendship. The characters are sensitively drawn and the story weaves an evocative tapestry of emotional complexity, satisfyingly resolved. Young adults will certainly enjoy this book and can't help but benefit from its thoughtful message of self-actualization. This is a well-crafted book with a beautiful smooth indigo colored dust jacket. It is small, short and sweet and would make a wonderful gift for someone going through the nebulous world of a young teen.	2002-03-27
US	41125812	R1CG4ETN05GM2Y	1575055120	606864744	Elf Night (Picture Books)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Elves and Fairies on a Moonlit Night	This is a dreamy picture book about a little boy cuddled up in his bed who suddenly hears some \\"whispers from the door!\\" He follows the calling of Magic and hides behind a big tree to watch dozens of elves and fairies and their animal friends dance and play beneath the luminous full moon. Fireflies and shooting stars light up the night sky. A big owl warns the elven folk that morning is approaching and off they go. The sleepy little boy goes back to bed. Did it really happen? The illustrations in this book are just superb. The rhyming text is somewhat forced and there is virtually no action apart from the motion of the fairies. They arrive, they dance around, they leave. This book is certainly not destined to become a classic since there is not much of a story to make it memorable, but the illustrations are so good that a true fairy enthusiast of whatever age will enjoy it.	2002-03-27
US	41125812	R1VYJ28WOJXRHD	0689842295	484129408	Spring's Sprung	Books	5	2	2	N	N	They Just  Woke Up...So They're A Little Crabby	I like this book a lot. Illustrator Greg Couch outdoes himself with these wonderful double page spreads filled with purples, blues, pinks and greens of Springtime. One can feel the cool, breezy sunlit atmosphere that is fresh and lively and does one's heart good. The story examines the intense sibling rivalry of the three Spring sisters, March, April and May, the daughters of Mother Earth.  Each girl wants to be the first, the best, the most beloved, and let's face it, they just woke up, so they're really in rare form with their crabbiness! Mother Earth chides them but gives equal loving approval for their accomplishments and unique qualities. In the end the girls rise to the joyous vibrations of Spring and the world is a brighter, happier place as, confident in their mother's love, they drop their rivalry. The illustrations are truly fabulous and the story while at first exhibiting a not-so-pretty side of human nature ends up affirming family love and celebrating cooperation.	2002-03-25
US	41125812	R3R9F4DIQDU6WZ	0965762807	829486777	Talks with Trees;  A Plant Psychic's Interviews with Vegetables, Flowers and Trees	Books	5	104	106	N	N	Go Ahead...Talk...You Can Do It...But Don't Forget To Listen	This is such a lovely, lovely, neat little book. It was published in 1997 so I am truly amazed that I am the first person to review it. It is a well-crafted, beautiful \\"book\\" even if you look at it just from the physical standpoint without considering its content. It is a small hard cover book printed in India by Sri Aurobindo Ashram Press and the cover and end papers are made by the Ashram. It is a beautiful natural color with bits of plant fiber showing and even smells faintly of plants. The book has interesting vintage illustrations with lots of enchanting atmosphere added by the inclusion of Art Nouveau accents. The writing inside is very homey and gentle and shows a light-hearted reverance for life. Mr. Cabarga is a self-titled plant psychic who discovered as a child, that when he spoke to plants they flourished and also that if he listened with his inner self he could hear them speaking as well. This book has a decidedly \\"New Age\\" theme and I for one often find New Age books cloying in their sugary preachiness, but this one is so sincere and humble and genuine that I found myself letting my guard down and fully accepting this gentle person's experiences and lessons in empathy. He shares his inner conversations with many different plants and also a moving conversation with Pan, the god of the Greenwood. The last chapter is a message from Mother Earth channeled by the author. Even if one were to read this book purely as a fairy tale which, ironically, from the standpoint of plant deva consciousness, it actually is, one will be treated to a loving sense of oneness with Nature that is a gift indeed. There is much wisdom in this little volume, some whistful sadness, and great joy. Even if one chooses to regard it as fiction it offers a sensitive and deep look at the green world that cannot help but have an effect upon one's view of the web of life and one's own place within it. I take this book quite literally. I consider the fact that hemin, the red pigment in animal blood, and chlorophyll, the green coloring in plants have chemical structures that are fundamentally the same except where chlorophyll contains magnesium, hemin contains iron. This book illustrates in thoughtful, lyrical prose the same message that this scientific fact reveals, namely that we are all one, we living beings. Discover a wonderful opportunity for relationship that is all around us. This book can open that door.mal blood, and chlorophyll, the green coloring in plants have chemical structures that are fundamentally the same except where chlorophyll contains magnesium, hemin contains iron. This book illustrates in thoughtful, lyrical prose the same message that this scientific fact reveals, namely that we are all one, we living beings. Discover a wonderful opportunity for relationship that is all around us. This book can open that door.	2002-03-25
US	41125812	R38G2098SNMGJN	0805063528	649021860	Hondo and Fabian	Books	5	16	16	N	N	It's Not Just Puppy Love	The Publishers Weekly editorial review of this book is entirely accurate so I'll leave the details to them.  I loved this book for the perfection of the way the artist/author captures the exhuberant love for life expressed by the dog and cat characters, Hondo, Fred and Fabian. Peter McCarty manages to give us the essence of a happy day in the lives of these animals. It is so infectious that I felt happy just looking at the simple yet evocative illustrations. This is a book for very young children, I suppose, and I'm sure toddlers will love it and will be readily able to appreciate the fun it celebrates, but as an adult I loved the way it illuminates the feelings of non-verbal beings and the opportunity it gives us to glimpse the richness of those feelings that we so often overlook. It's a wonderful book.	2002-03-25
US	41125812	R3S03QGYOSNFOU	0880794372	402653211	Connolly Tarot Deck	Books	4	44	48	N	N	A Good Deck Among Some Great Decks	I read Tarot professionally and have studied it for 32 years. I also collect decks and have over 200 different ones...so far. While I do not use this deck, it is one that stands out in my mind and I like it quite a lot. The bright sunset colors the artist used and the subtle black outlines of the pictures lend a stained glass look to the cards. There is a lot of turquoise, purple, magenta, and bright pink in these cards that one doesn't often see in the more common or popular decks. I go back and forth in my mind trying to decide if it is cloying or a fantasy touch of innovation. Some of the characters have a Botticelli look to them. Most of the men have long hair and a medieval look, but inexplicably the Emperor seems to have just come from the barber. There are far too many cherubs on these cards to suit my taste and they don't seem to have much rhyme or reason to them, just popping in there where you don't expect them, like leaning over the scaffold on the Hanged Man card, sticking up out of the goblet on the Ace of Cups, or four of the chubby little rascals flying around the solar disk on The Sun card, but I'm sure others will enjoy them. The illustrations are for the most part quite striking and always positive. The pips are all illustrated as well as the major arcana. There is a Judeo-Christian thread of symbolism but it is not overwhelming. The more traditional Death and Devil cards have been changed into Transition and Materialism, respectively. The Fool, dressed in magenta and pink stands at a purple crossroad with a tuquoise sea and white chalk cliffs in the distance with a Spuds MacKenzie look-alike at his feet, the symbol being changed it seems from the more traditional carefree naivte to cautious contemplation of the road not taken, but still the artwork is GOOD and all of the cards are engaging. I really love the suit of Wands which features oak staves complete with green oak leaves and sometimes acorns. The artist and the designer have given refreshingly new viewpoints while also maintaining imagery that will be familiar to those experienced with Tarot. The very fact of the different imagery encourages study and meditation. All in all this is a most worthy deck.gly new viewpoints while also maintaining imagery that will be familiar to those experienced with Tarot. The very fact of the different imagery encourages study and meditation. All in all this is a most worthy deck.	2002-03-24
US	41125812	RAFBQYM5KI8L9	059042517X	78846315	When The Root Children Wake Up	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Exploring the Four Seasons	This elegantly crafted book is a pure delight! The light-hearted text and the beautiful evocative oil paintings that illustrate the story lead us on a whimsical journey through the changing seasons. We are re-introduced to delightful characters from an old German story about birth and rebirth and treated to the colorful adventures of the Root Children as they awaken in Spring and begin painting the bugs and making lovely flower costumes. We also meet Old Grandfather Winter, Mother Earth, Kind Aunt Spring, Jolly Cousin Summer, and Studious Uncle Fall. The joyous adventures of the Root Children as they meet their older relatives and a host of woodland creatures out in the world are brimming with color and fun. The multi-racial children sport colorful butterfly wings and flower garlands as they frisk about the abundant earth revelling in Nature. The expressions and body language of real children are reflected in these lovely illustrations. The double page spreads draw one in to the festivities and are complimented by a beautiful, uncharacteristic font style for added ambiance. The dust jacket is a smooth silvery paper with a glossy full color picture of the Root Children and a lovely tangle of budding trees. The endpapers are a silvery blue with the same lovely trees and the covers of the book itself are a simulated embossed soft brown leather with a picture of a little Root Child girl holding a lighted candle, oak leaves in her hair. No detail was spared in this lovely book and it is sure to become a beloved treasure.	2002-03-21
US	41125812	R2UL3290N9U0XA	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dated But Thought Provoking	I really enjoyed this novel from the apocalyptic genre very much. It was not a fantasy good versus evil type of story but rather a speculative look at how civilization might fare if there was a sudden die-off of 99% of the population. In this story there is a sudden plague of such devastating severity that nearly everyone is dead within a couple of weeks of its outset. This book does not focus on the plague or the sufferings of the infected and dying people. No grisly oozing bodies are found in these pages and very little trauma or grief. We enter the picture shortly after the dust has settled, so to speak. The story is not about the plague but about its aftermath. It is told from the perspective of one man who survives and traces his experiences as he goes in search of other survivors and finally settles back in his native California and makes the foundation of a new \\"tribe\\" of civilized human beings. This book was written in 1949 so it is doubly interesting because it not only gives us a look at the author's speculation about the factors that make up civilization and the interesting trials and successes that might arise, but it also gives us an amazing look at the huge changes that have taken place in our consciousness just in the short period of years since it was written. It has the unexpected bonus of actually confirming some of the points the story originally was designed to suggest. Even though the author seems as though he was an open-minded, perhaps even liberal thinker, the book contains ridiculous racial stereo-types, as well as skewed ideas about the personhood of mentally disabled people and also of women. Women are shown as being entirely domestic and dependent. Cigarette smoking is still very much a happy pastime in this brave new world and is enjoyed by men and their pregnant wives without a care in the world. When a plague of ants becomes a problem the main character, Ish, sprays himself and his pregnant wife down thoroughly with DDT, a substance that is used several times in the surviving world to overcome pests. I found these old-fashioned ideas very interesting when coming from a \\"reasonable\\" man that no one of his time would have considered to be prejudiced.  The book is a thought-provoking page-tuner.  I kept imagining that I would have done things in a much different way from the main character but I found the ideas and reasoning to be essentially sound and worth contemplating. This is an interesting look at how the Earth might rid herself of the virus called mankind and is certainly a good look at the power of her self-healing capabilities. I definitely recommend this book.at is used several times in the surviving world to overcome pests. I found these old-fashioned ideas very interesting when coming from a \\"reasonable\\" man that no one of his time would have considered to be prejudiced.  The book is a thought-provoking page-tuner.  I kept imagining that I would have done things in a much different way from the main character but I found the ideas and reasoning to be essentially sound and worth contemplating. This is an interesting look at how the Earth might rid herself of the virus called mankind and is certainly a good look at the power of her self-healing capabilities. I definitely recommend this book.	2002-03-20
US	41125812	R372W2DGLBDWRA	0892819014	22076753	How to Read Signs and Omens in Everyday Life	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Magnifying Glass For the Third Eye	This is a well written, highly readable, informative, scholarly, loving and fun book and it's not often I can say all those things about the same book. Sprinkled with lovely, thought-provoking quotations and brimming with informative insights into the working of intuition this delightful book offers dozens of intuition-expanding exercises or games that can be used alone or with others for fun and development. Dr. Bluestone is that rare psychic who comes across as entirely genuine, thoughtful and grounded in reality. He shows us with practical examples how completely natural our own 6th sense is and how to hone it to gain greater appreciation of the world around us. I recommend this book to young people and adults. It encourages us to explore our selves and our world, both seen and unseen, more fully and makes the process very enjoyable.	2002-03-20
US	41125812	R1L7EU3182HO40	0689319622	446012396	The Conjure Woman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Spiritually Incandescent	Set among the Nankani people of Ghana this book tells the story of little Toby who is very sick with a high fever. His worried parents bring him to see the Conjure Woman who uses the ancient folk magic and healing techniques of her people to help him recover. This beautiful and moving picture book is filled with the peace and grace of a confident and living faith. It makes a wonderful tale without being the least bit preachy while at the same time conveys with few words the centered and focused spirituality of an African Conjure Woman. The illustrations are vibrant and warm and show the careful loving ministrations of several \\"old ones\\" including one young girl not much older than Toby. Various natural healing methods are shown including several brilliant pictures of the out-of-body travels of the Conjure Woman and Toby as they go to visit the ancestors. There is so much obvious love within these pages and a deep resonate spirituality that is a profound force for goodness and unity. This book will benefit any reader, child or adult, regardless of one's personal religious path, who is interested in a healed and loving planet.	2002-03-14
US	41125812	R2ETEBMI2SUPJT	0060287659	475536184	The Stones Are Hatching	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Magic IS Afoot!	This wonderful book is a scary magical adventure tale filled with excellent scholarship. It presents the Old Magic legends of Europe, the British Isles in particular, with accuracy and combines them with the every day life of the early 20th century to make a thrilling fantasy. Set in Cornwall following the Great War it follows the efforts, trials and successes of young Phelim who has been enlisted by a strange wildman, Mad Sweeney, a witch girl, and the 'Obby 'Oss to slay the gigantic, continent-sized Stoor Worm who is waking from her anicent slumber and will destroy the world. Why Phelim? Much to his own surprise Phelim is the living heir of Jack O'Green and a Chime Child to boot! This story is masterfully told with humor, suspense, dangerous thrills, and poignant insights into the sufferings and triumphs of human beings.  It is colorful and evocative as well as beautifully thought-provoking. It is creative and filled with refreshingly \\"new\\" characters even though they are based on the actual legends of old. Geraldine McCaughrean is a renowned scholar on the subject of folklore and she has populated the pages of this book with myriad concepts and creatures from out of the dark and wild past. As she says by way of introduction, \\"All the creatures, dangers, legends, and magics described in this book were, until very recently, accepted as real and true by ordinary people living and working in a civilized and Christian Europe.\\" Were a reader to investigate the various \\"creatures, dangers, legends, and magics\\" found within these pages more fully, perhaps on the Internet, a truly vast treasure trove of nearly forgotten lore would be opened before them.  This book succeeds as a purely good yarn, as a coming-of-age story, as myth and legend, and as a very concise compendium of the beings and practices of the Old Magic. I highly, highly recommend it.	2002-03-13
US	41125812	RMVO30HTT2WER	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	110	152	N	N	Wake Up and Smell the Cop-out	Michael Moore is a national treasure. All of his work has been brilliant and this book is his best work so far. \\"Stupid White Men\\" makes it easy for us to understand what a completely lame bunch of sheep we are, does it in an easy to read and humorous way (so our teeny little attention spans can handle it), and does it with thoroughness, good documentation and down-to-earth, straight talking honesty. Most of us have been copping out of our responsibilities as \\"We, the People.\\" Mike explains to us many of the very hideous things that have been done and are being done to our country, our planet, or fellow citizens and ourselves by our \\"leaders.\\" While we were following the football scores and clipping coupons, he has been keeping an eye on things and he's been kind enough to put it in a book, kind of like a Cliff's Notes for the politically challenged. While we have been busy telling our complacent selves that there's nothing we can do and it doesn't matter anyway, Mike has not lost sight of the dream of a democracy, or the dream of freedom, peace and plenty, or \\"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\\" (Remember that one?) The thing is, Mike understands why so many of us have disenfranchised ourselves and he's trying to open our Prozac-glazed eyes and get us to see what's going on so we can act on behalf of ourselves to make the world a good place to live. I'm a sheep myself so I can really appreciate the wake-up power of this book! I was on my state's Democratic Administrative Committee and my state's Democratic Platform Committee. I worked hard in various political campaigns, but I began to get sick of the futility of the political scene, sick of it right down to my bones, so I dropped out. I stopped reading the newspaper and watching the news. I cancelled my periodical subscriptions. I was sick of watching my country go down the tubes with so very few of my fellow citizens even flipping a voting lever to prevent it. However, while I was sleeping, with my head buried in the sand, the prison population exploded, we ended up with a President who I feel is in the White House under rather questionable circumstances, the health care problem has become a national crisis and pollution and poverty are growing at alarming rates. This book will quickly wake you up if you take a couple of hours to read it. PLEASE WAKE UP! You really do have an obligation to, at the very least, yourself to know what is going on around you, and NOT what the media lap-dogs choose to spoon-feed you. This book will tip you off about the shenanigans of government and big business (which are one and the same), and the destruction of the environment, civil liberties and a host of other things that are precious and vital to your life that you are going to LOSE if you don't wake up. Read it and if you don't like it you can always \\"re-cycle it\\" and then it will magically disappear and not trouble you any longer. I promise it's a very important book.buried in the sand, the prison population exploded, we ended up with a President who I feel is in the White House under rather questionable circumstances, the health care problem has become a national crisis and pollution and poverty are growing at alarming rates. This book will quickly wake you up if you take a couple of hours to read it. PLEASE WAKE UP! You really do have an obligation to, at the very least, yourself to know what is going on around you, and NOT what the media lap-dogs choose to spoon-feed you. This book will tip you off about the shenanigans of government and big business (which are one and the same), and the destruction of the environment, civil liberties and a host of other things that are precious and vital to your life that you are going to LOSE if you don't wake up. Read it and if you don't like it you can always \\"re-cycle it\\" and then it will magically disappear and not trouble you any longer. I promise it's a very important book.	2002-03-09
US	41125812	R34NI1M78GG552	068931972X	250289508	The Malachite Palace	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Freedom to Fly	This is a wonderful picture book, both the writing and the illustrations. It's about the cruelty and foolishness of snobbery. A very sweet little princess is kept inside the palace gates because the queen, the governess and the lady-in-waiting think she is too good to be mixing in with the riff-raff rabble kids outside the gates. She's not happy. One day the queen and her cronies trap a bird that has flown in to the palace but it isn't happy and starts to deteriorate, so the little princess helps it escape. In the process the princess makes a very important change in the way she is treated. The illustrations of this little princess are just perfect and they capture her emotions in such detail. The illustrations glow with a soft light and the deep green walls of the malachite palace add magic to the pictures and also a sort of innocence. This is a book that shows the strength that a child can have when they decide to live up to their true nature and think for themselves. It should help kids see that they can come up with ideas on their own for doing the right thing and that sometimes grown-ups can make mistakes. I love this book.	2002-03-08
US	41125812	RQGNRJV71SL3U	0152373748	616466091	The Hundred Dresses	Books	5	78	88	N	N	Written in 1944 But Still A Common Tale Everywhere	This sensitive story was written in 1944 and due to \\"human nature\\" things haven't changed one iota since then. It is the tale of one poor immigrant girl's way of coping with her poverty and the constant teasing she gets from other little girls at her school. The other girls are very materialistic and judge others by their clothing. It's not a pretty picture. The story is thoughtful and doesn't make the in-crowd clique of girls seem awful, only immature and insensitive. One of the girls even feels pretty bad about the teasing and harassing of the little Polish girl, but she doesn't come forward because she doesn't want to lose her own social standing. What I love about this book the most is that it is a wonderful opportunity for adults to talk with children about the insidious damage caused by teasing and singling others out. Let's face it most adults haven't really grown out of that way of behaving. Keep your ears open in a corporate lunch room some time. If we hope to make this a better world we need more books like this one and we need to actively teach our kids a better more loving way of being. We also need to help them stand up for their own gut-feelings of right and wrong instead of teaching them to go along with the status quo as we so often do by our own examples. The simple, straight-forward text and the beautiful, evocative yet simple illustrations make this story accessible and unforgettable. It can help you bring up an important topic and discuss it with your children. I recommend it for every parent and every teacher.	2002-03-06
US	41125812	R3OL02NVC2Y15E	0440412919	13456003	Young Guinevere (A Dell Picture Yearling)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Myth From the Might Have Been	This is a beautiful picture book for pre-teens rather than for really young children.  It has a mythological tale of what young Queen Guinevere's life might have been like.  It is well written by the talented Robert D. San Souci and is filled with symbolism and adventure and heroism. The illustrations are well done and are brightly colored like the pages in a medieval illuminated manuscript. Beautiful mythical creatures like a chimera and a unicorn and a werewolf help give this story its otherwordly feel and add to the mysterious and magical flavor we have come to know from other great Arthurian writers like Sir Thomas Malory, T.H. White, and Howard Pyle. This is a simple story that ends with foreshadowing of the world Guinevere will grow into and it makes a good introduction to this enigmatic character.	2002-03-05
US	41125812	RDZLEOK7YWG1K	0763607002	589645620	The Midnight Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dreamy Bedtime Story	This is a beautifully illustrated bedtime picture book with a short poetical text. It features the dream travels of a boy and his dog as they follow the Midnight Man with his sack of stars. When this mysterious stranger leaves them in his tracks as he continues on his starry way to the midnight land the gentle, motherly full moon sees them safely home. The short text is just the right amount of \\"tuck me in\\" attention that will make a little one feel snug and safe before going off to sleep and the pictures are shadowy blue, green and peaceful and sprinkled with starlight. Perfect for sweet dreams.	2002-03-05
US	41125812	R29XYTVSN2JAEY	1564025888	790796478	Haunted Waters	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spare, Atmospheric Tale of Enchantment	Based upon the novel \\"Undine\\" written in the early 19th century by Friedrich Heinrich Karl, this short novel is spare and seems almost primative. The dialog is simple, the characters not very deep, but it has atmosphere in abundance and romance and obsession. It is the sad tale of a nobleman who is beguiled and ultimately falls in love with a mysterious young woman. It reads almost like a myth or a legend. It draws you into its pages and treats you to emotional ambiance that you won't soon forget. Some elements of the tale are never fully explained, but I did not find that to be a necessity because it is very dream-like or similar to being held under a spell. Anyone who has lived under an enchantment will understand. Read it and see for yourself. It is lovely.	2002-03-05
US	41125812	RCMOAWGMRPBE	0374367094	936778522	Selkie	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Empathy	This is  short sweet picture book with the beautiful blues and greens of the sea in its charming illustrations. It tells the tale of a boy who makes friends with a young selkie, ( a shape-shifter who can transform from a seal to a girl by taking her sealskin off.) Their friendship helps him appreciate her uniqueness and also the subtle and mysterious \\"language of the sea.\\" Unlike the greedy oysterman who captures the selkie and imprisons her so that he can force the language of the sea from her to make himself rich, the boy appreciates her and befriends her and in the end receives a gift freely given and so, all the more precious. I gave this book 4 stars because I really like it but it is not a masterpiece. Never the less, it is a good story contrasting greed with kindness and is deserving of its 4 stars in more ways than one.	2002-03-05
US	41125812	R2FAN8PH10Z0VL	1883424542	452241384	Crop Circles: A Vocabulary of the Symbols	Books	1	4	4	N	N	Tag Board and Duct Tape!	This thin volume literally has tag board covers and a duct tape binding. I'm not kidding. It consists of badly photocopied type-written pages and some very poor blotchy photocopies of a few of the crop circles. It is a collection of excerpts from Mr. Canada's previous writings on the various theories he has concerning crop circles. It relies heavily on the speculative work of Sitchin. His theories involve ancient Sumerian myths and specualte that the makers of the crop circle are from the \\"tenth\\" planet in our solar system. The writing is not the best by any means. This book is a rambling, disjointed rap session and was very disappointing to me especially in view of its title: \\"A Vocabulary of the Symbols\\" which it most decidedly is not. It only touches on a few of the more frequently published circle patterns and can hardly be considered a vocabulary. ... Fortunately it is not too expensive so if you are in to Sitchin maybe you'll want to have a look at it, but I do not recommend it.	2002-03-04
US	41125812	R1AILKOS82731V	0890879958	255944596	The Wicca Cookbook: Recipes, Ritual, and Lore	Books	3	33	60	N	N	Try Banishing Veal Stew Instead of Vanishing Veal Stew	I really like this beautiful book very much. It has so many great recipes, very interesting lore and inspirational ritual ideas. It looks beautiful. It is printed on quality paper. It has been well researched and it is a big help in planning Sabbat feasts. I am troubled by the inclusion of the recipe for Vanishing Veal Stew, however. I live just a short distance away from a major veal supplier and slaughterhouse that actually invented a most cruel and hideous method of raising veal calves that has become the industry standard. I'm not a vegetarian though I should be. The hellish life that veal calves live is just about the worst imaginable and is arguably the worst of any \\"food\\" animal. I take the Wiccan Rede seriously as I'm sure the authors do, and I strive to come closer to it every day with mixed success. In light of how miserably these baby animals live their short lives I don't think a recipe using their flesh should be included in any book that has \\"Wicca\\" in the title.	2002-03-01
US	41125812	R17YXHO30XCM6G	0811830691	63670524	Cosmic Grooves-Pisces: Your Astrological Profile and the Songs that Define You	Books	3	8	8	N	N	What a Great Gimmick! Wish I'd Thought of It!	This is a little CD sized hardcover mini-book that is one of a 12 part series featuring all of the signs of the zodiac and it comes with a CD.  I'm Pisces so I chose to review the Pisces book and CD. I've also been an astrologer for over 30 years so while I'm envious of the money making power of this clever gimmick package, I must say it is light-weight pop astrology on a par with the newspaper astrology columns and that's about it. There is cursory coverage of the &quot;typical&quot; Pisces, Pisces at work, in careers, in love, in relationships, home, health, style, entertaining, etc. The information found in the 47 short pages of text is accurate as far as it goes and provides a good sketch of the Piscean archetype. The book is accompanied by a music CD containing 12 tunes by twelve different artists each corresponding with a trait attributed to the Piscean character. Some of the tunes hit the mark pretty well while others are obscure and contrived.  For example for the &quot;appreciative&quot; trait the selection is &quot;Thank You For Being a Friend&quot; by Andrew Gold...pretty good choice, however the tune for the trait &quot;Empathetic&quot; is &quot;I Can Help&quot; by Jo-El Sonnier and I really don't think the point of that song is empathy but alludes to a more hands-on approach to caring, if you get my drift.  If the song choices on this collection of book/CD sets were better...and they easily could be...I would applaud this as a wonderful innovative way to teach Astrology, however as it is I think a person would be better off spending half the money on a good astrology book that covers all the signs not just one, and taking the other half of the money and buying a used CD that REALLY suits you. One very good thing about this is that it comes from Rhino Records so at the least the tunes aren't cheesy remakes. I've checked out all twelve of the sets in this series and the same comments would apply to all twelve.	2002-03-01
US	41125812	R2S67J3UTXE2UP	0823415317	886513357	The Merbaby	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Beautiful and Beguiling	I think I would give this wonderful picture book five stars even if the text was tripe because the illustrations are so lovely but fortunately the text is equally good. Two fisherman brothers, one an idealistic dreamer and the other a materialistic schemer accidentally pull up a baby mermaid in their nets along with their catch of fish. Both brothers see dollar signs, one hoping for riches and fame, the other wishing for a carefree life of exploration and discovery. They decide to sell her as a curiosity and make their fortune.  The dreamy brother falls in love with the adorable merbaby and his conscience won't let him sell her into a miserable life on land. In the end kindness is rewarded. The story also reveals an age old enmity between the sea folk and the land folk because of the way land folk plunder and abuse the gifts of the sea. It has a good message about ecology and respect for other beings rather than dominance and destruction.  The large double spread illustrations have an atmospheric sea-green wash and are as sure to enchant as a mermaid's voice.	2002-03-01
US	41125812	R2K0RQBZJ7ZHP	1929341059	84516076	Crop Circle Wisdom: Simple Teachings from the Circlemakers	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Beautiful Photographs. Period.	I actually like this little hard cover book (just 5x7\\") quite a lot. It contains many, many colored photographs of some very lovely and intricate crop circles including some of the best close-up detail photos I've seen. The author clearly shares my deep love for these mysterious and mystical creations. The text was overly New Age for my taste and consisted entirely of \\"teachings\\" that Ms.Clarke was guided by Spirit to communicate. There are no comments about the symbolism shown in the crop circles. Instead there is a separate \\"teaching\\" to go along with each of the chosen photographs, such as joy, non-judgement, power, unity, harmony, respect, etc. All of the teaching buzz-words are good concepts and might be very useful for meditation or what have you. I'm not judging the concepts, but the little mini-essays that accompany each of the topics are not the slightest bit profound and fall short of the goal of actually \\"teaching\\" anything. Ms. Clarke terms herself a \\"croppie\\" and has spent a lot of time studying and visiting and guiding in the crop circles. Her writing shows her to be a sweet and gentle soul, filled with child-like wonder and the ability to go inward and reflect without judgement. If someone would have given this book to me as a gift, I would have been grateful indeed. It's lovely. I feel the price being asked for this book is way too high for what the book delivers, however. There are many other good books available with equally lovely photographs but with better and more useful text. If you are looking for information or details about the crop circles themselves, this book will not help you out. If it was bigger it would be a coffee table book, as it is, it is a high priced mini gift book. The photos are 5 star but the text is 1 star so I'm going in the middle with this one. 3 stars.	2002-02-28
US	41125812	R3HCW2CVLVYQFE	1558587829	255341564	Meredith, the Witch Who Wasn't	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Do It Yourself Magic	This is a short, sweet story about Meredith, a young witch who really isn't too good at magic spells.  Her heart just isn't in it so she isn't careful with the wording of her spells and things never turn out the way she wants them to turn out when she uses magic. The truth is, she really doesn't like magic. She likes to use her imagination and then do things by hand.  She enjoys using her creativity. Alas! She is commanded to attend the Annual Assessment of Witchly Powers and she knows that failure to perform will cost her her witchly certification.<br />She ends up learning a great truth about magic and discovers a lot about her own powers.  This is a great lesson about not always doing things the \\"easy\\" way, about the joy of working things out yourself, and about the satisfaction that comes from making things with your own two hands.  The illustrations are big, bright colored romps through the witchy world of spells, flying brooms and zany, eccentric witches.  Each character is a quirky individual and even when Meredith botches her spells, the other witches are supportive.  I loved their wild, colorful costumes  and their funny, show-off hyjinx. There are so many fun-filled, light-hearted touches in both the writing and illustrations that each page was a new treat. The big Assessment takes place on October 31st so of course this is a good Halloween story, but the message of self-sufficiency is a good one any time. I loved it.	2002-02-27
US	41125812	R2HGGPK98IPJ14	0688154824	340700818	On Halloween Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It's Halloween! Let's Count To 13!	This is a counting book with text that rhymes.  In that way it is like so many others before it.  What I like about this book are the illustrations.  The story begins with one witch stirring her big black cauldron as an owl looks on from a bare branch overhead and it progresses throughout Halloween Night all the way up to magical number 13 with wonderful evocative pictures that capture the essence of this mysterious autumn night. Meet nocturnal animals such as black cats, wolves and bats going about their secret business.  The pictures are spooky but not too frightening.  Most of the pictures have to do with real wild creatures like bears, snakes, toads and ravens and even bugs but there is also a ghostly counting experience within these pages.  I just love the illustrations and I think this is an original idea that makes a nice variation from the often overly sweet counting books that are out there.  I am giving it only four stars because the rhymes are sometimes forced, because it shows toads hopping into the water like frogs, and because it uses animals like goats, rabbits and bears that don't really have much to do with a Halloween theme.  I don't think kids will mind that at all though and the pictures are fun.	2002-02-26
US	41125812	R1RGGHMYSZGCSI	1563974525	908831165	Five Little Pumpkins	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Ooooo-oooo Went the Wind and Out Went the Light!	You remember the little song from grade school about the five little pumpkins!  This absolutely charming book uses the lyrics of that Halloween song and combines them with full double page illustrations in bright water-colors.  The fun and excitement of trick or treat night is captured so well in this book.  Join the neighborhood witches, devils, ghosts and a cute black cat on a visit to the skeleton's haunted house!  The five little jack-o-lanterns roll along for some good high-spirited fun with nothing scary that might trouble little ones. Make some great memories when you share this book with children. Happy Halloween!	2002-02-26
US	41125812	R1P5Q9ORVOJJO4	0740718738	197214728	Mary Engelbreit's Tiny Teeny Halloweeny Treasury	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Merry &quot;Mary&quot; Halloween Treat!	This is a really cute little book very typical of Mary Engelbreit's work.  It's well crafted on good quality heavy stock and has all the trimmings and flourishes we have come to expect from this talented illustrator and author.  This treasury of Halloween folklore, jokes, artwork and recipes contains an abundance of fun ideas to treat yourself and your children to during the Halloween season. It has 17 charming Halloween poems, facts about witches, pumpkins, origins of Halloween, black and orange, customs and lore, and felines.  It has 12 silly riddles and jokes and the legend of the Jack-o-lantern.  It has 4 yummy, easy and festive recipes that kids can help to prepare.  Best of all, it has Mary's fun-filled colorful illustrations.  It's a real treat!	2002-02-26
US	41125812	R8Q57ZIM06ETV	087596799X	852206666	Maria Rodale's Organic Gardening (Your Seasonal Companion to Creating a Beautiful and Delicious Organic Garden)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Bleeding Heart Liberal's Favorite Gardening Book	The beautiful photograph on the front cover showing my favorite flower, the Bleeding Heart, virtually guaranteed that I'd be taking this home with me.  I was not disappointed!  This is my favorite gardening book of a pretty extensive collection. It is large and so filled with gorgeous photographs that it almost qualifies as a &quot;coffee table book&quot; except for the fact that it is also chock full of very smart and useful information about organic gardening plus well written inspirational tid-bits from Maria Rodale's personal gardening life history.  It is divided up into seasonal sections and is a very effective spring fever reliever.  I love to dream over the photographs and gardening suggestions when everything is dormant under a blanket of snow. Maria writes as though she is talking to a friend, sharing charming anecdotes, her favorite tools, cherished recipes. Her garden is a lovely, inviting place where the whole ecosystem is respected including the so-called &quot;pests.&quot;  Do you want to know what to feed a hummingbird? Maria tells you.  How about ten ways to eat a tomato? Yum. Maria's there for you.  As she says, &quot;Life takes creative thinking. Practice in your garden.&quot;  I find that after a few minutes with this book my own creativity blossoms.  The genuine passionate love for gardening and the green world that is between these pages when combined with all the useful practical ideas and philosophical encouragement makes for a real treat.	2002-02-16
US	41125812	R1248DN13ELQWK	156718779X	519113585	The Ultimate Alien Agenda: The Re-engineering of Humankind	Books	2	13	16	N	N	The Aliens Might Be Making Me Write This	I've studied the UFO/alien subject for almost 30 years and I was aware of it and curious about it for far longer.  I read material on the subject because every now and then I learn a new piece of the puzzle and can relate it directly to my personal experiences with unexplained high strangeness.  I am a bit suspect of Llewellyn Publications/FATE Magazine to begin with because I feel they have a tendency to the sensationalistic and aren't overly concerned with documentation.  Having said that, I did buy a copy of this book even though like so many big hairy tales of \\"shocking\\" material it is printed on cheap ragstock seemingly to make the most money possible off the sale of the book.  I found a couple of interesting parallels to my own curious and unexplained experiences.  I found food for thought within its pages but mostly I thought it was an exercise in imagining, brain-storming or free form associating strange experiences with conjecture and wildly far-fetched assumptions and theories.  James Walden's experiences can't be dismissed out of hand just by saying they're too weird and I'm NOT saying that. I can give him the benefit of the doubt that these things he describes are true from his perspective.  The idea that they are too alien for our human intelligence to comprehend or that we as humans are too fully manipulated by aliens to really know what's going on could be true but that argument makes the whole point of a book or a study on the subject moot in the first place.  Dr. Walden experienced a childhood rape, experienced a life-long problem with obsessive love fantasies and is a homosexual man from a conservative state.  Those factors may be the result of being manipulated and posessed by interdimentional alien beings or by being a hybrid alien (hulien) but it occurs to me that it could also be the other way around and a troubled child could have grown into a troubled man who explains his troubles by blaming them on the manipulations of aliens from a different dimension.  I think it would be arrogant and unkind for me to dismiss his experiences but there is way too much speculation in this book that is reported as though it is fact. I think there is far too much reliance on psychic revelation, hypnotic recall and plain old BS sessions between people with strongly vested interests in the conclusions that are expressed in this book.  It's an interesting and easy short read and you may aid your own investigations as I did by checking it out, but please keep an objective mind and in my opinion, yes, it's ok to laugh like hell if you feel like it.nt dimension.  I think it would be arrogant and unkind for me to dismiss his experiences but there is way too much speculation in this book that is reported as though it is fact. I think there is far too much reliance on psychic revelation, hypnotic recall and plain old BS sessions between people with strongly vested interests in the conclusions that are expressed in this book.  It's an interesting and easy short read and you may aid your own investigations as I did by checking it out, but please keep an objective mind and in my opinion, yes, it's ok to laugh like hell if you feel like it.	2002-02-01
US	41125812	R1BM99B60PWJMB	0688173640	285311628	So Many Bunnies Board Book: A Bedtime ABC and Counting Book	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Put This In Somebody's Easter Basket	This is such a clever, well-illustrated picture book that teaches counting, ABCs and rhyming in a delightful,warm-hearted way.  Using the familiar foundation of the old nursey rhyme about the old woman in the shoe, this story tells us about Old Mother Rabbit who has 26 children and knows just what to do. She gives them some carrots and broth and some bread and kisses them gently and puts them to bed.  The bunnies all have special places to sleep and this book has a lot of charming stimulating pictures for little ones to explore as they're learning to count and say the ABCs.  It's so cute and well done and little pre-schoolers are sure to enjoy it.  Since most little ones like to have their stories read over and over, parents will welcome this book's detailed pictures and clever rhymes that make the book as fun to read aloud as it is to hear it read.	2002-02-01
US	41125812	R255QXQU1J0W1Y	0195145763	213733719	A Wonder Book for Girls and Boys (The Iona and Peter Opie Library of Children's Literature)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Vibrant Treasure	This affordably priced quality paperback edition of familiar tales from Greek mythology is truly a treasure and a wonderful way to enjoy these timeless stories or to introduce them to young people.  One of America's greatest writers, Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote these versions of stories about Pandora, Medusa, Hercules, King Midas and the host of gods and goddesses that make up the Greek pantheon.  The language is evocative and colorful yet easily understandable.  You needn't worry if your high school teacher's assigned reading of \\"The Scarlet Letter\\" bored you to tears, as this collection of stories is filled with exciting adventures and vivid characters.  I love the beautiful illustrations in this book.  They were done by Walter Crane, one of the most popular illustrators of children's books in the late 19th century.  The paintings are in the Pre-Raphaelite style in full color.  The decorations at the beginning of each chapter are filled with Victorian charm and make this new editon seem like a well-loved antique.  There are many excellent anthologies of the Greek myths on the market but rarely will you find one that utilizes such substantial talents as those employed by Hawthorne and Crane or that so thoroughly draw the reader in to the romantic and turbulent world of heroes, maidens and the capricious deities who stir their fates.  I highly recommend this book. It is a classic that will enrich the mind and heart of a young reader and open the way for further discovery.	2002-01-31
US	41125812	R2ZK7ACUHWVGL0	1567182208	73710336	Extraterrestrial Visitations: True Accounts of Contact	Books	4	14	14	N	N	See If Any of This Stuff Sounds Familiar	This book is not a \\"blockbuster\\". It is humble and honest rather than sensationalistic. It is short and can easily be read in an afternoon.  The author thankfully doesn't spend a lot of time defending his belief in the existence of UFOs.  This book is a collection of several reports in the first person of the people who experienced the events.  It covers many different types of missing time, sightings, abduction/visitor contacts, alien \\"exams\\"...in short, the usual.  What I liked about it was that it didn't have a lot of editorializing.  It just let the peoples' experiences speak for themselves.  I like to read reports such as this because I have experienced several incidences of \\"high strangeness\\" in my life and I enjoy comparing notes with others to learn if others have experienced what I have.  This book relates the words of average people living normal lives who have been in touch with something they cannot fully explain.  It is not going to be found on any best seller list but it is just plain interesting, well paced, well written and fair-minded.  It doesn't come across with dire predictions, conspiracy theories or any sweeping statements about the close encounter experience.  The author has done the investigating, talked with the people and now shares with the reader so that we can piece this information together with our own understanding and insight.  I appreciate it for what it is and recommend it if you are in the process of learning and investigating this phenomenon.	2002-01-31
US	41125812	R1EDHS4P8AOYT9	1885394403	933791630	Fairy Tales (Collected Works)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Illustrations of Fairy Tales	The title of this little book is somewhat misleading in that you might assume that it contains fairy tales. Actually, it contains 25 illustrations of fairy tales and on each facing page it has a very short stanza or two of some famous fairy poem or story. You will find Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, The Little Mermaid, La Belle Dame sans Merci as well as two other poems about fairies. The book is a very thin little volume only 4&quot; x 6&quot;, rather poorly laid out with many of the pictures showing uneven borders of white at top and bottom, while others have no borders and still others are printed sideways so that you have to turn the book to get a good look at them. The illustrations for &quot;The Little Mermaid&quot; section of this book are cropped from larger prints that accompany a much better book by Hans Christian Andersen and Wulfing entitled &quot;The Little Mermaid.&quot; This book is rather too highly priced for the quality. Having shared my disappointments let me say that this book is still very much worth having if you enjoy the exquisite work of this enigmatic artist. This book features many prints of lovely otherwordly looking girls with beautiful and intricate knights in shining armour. Fabulous unearthly flowers grace the pictures in tangles of vines and branches, ribbons and knotwork. Flowing veils, robes, cloaks and tresses add softness and mystery to the work. The people seem to exude a soft light. If you are not familiar with Wulfing you may want to seek out a calendar or the larger books like &quot;The Little Mermaid&quot; or &quot;Miracle of Tears&quot; or perhaps one of her several oracle decks of cards.  If you are a fan of Sulamith Wulfing then do not let any of my criticisms get in the way of enjoying the prints in this book. My complaints are about the book not the art or this incredible artist.	2001-12-29
US	41125812	R1W8PVK0OM4UFJ	188539442X	770463794	Angels	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Things Come In Small But Pricey Packages	This book is one in a series of lovely books illustrated by  Sulamith Wulfing. It measures just 4'X6\\" and contains 25 illustrations with accompanying quotes from famous writers such as Shakespeare, William Blake, John Milton, Robert Herrick, and the Bible. The excerpts don't always seem to go with the illustrations but the text is not the reason you would buy this book anyway. Sulamith Wulfing's intricate and delicate work in this book features many enchanting angels. Each one is unique and filled with a serene and peaceful quality. I feel that the price that is being asked for these books is a bit steep considering the small size of the books, the limited amount of text and the rather poor way the pictures were printed on the page. Most of them have uneven sized white showing at the top and bottom of the picture. However, the artwork is the purpose of the book and it does not disappoint in any way. It is divine and if you love Wulfing's work I suggest that you will truly love this little book of angels.	2001-12-29
US	41125812	R3FRU9XP7X91LA	0811812111	654604080	Wild Horse Winter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A 5 Star Book But Perhaps a Narrow Niche	This book was a five star experience for me. It has beautiful illustrations that totally transported me to the wind and snow blinding atmosphere of a blizzard. I could feel the sturdy bodies of the wild horses it depicts struggling against the elements. I could hear there huffing and snuffling groans as they fought to survive in the harsh environment and I could hear their breathing as the steam rose from their warm nostrils while they stood completely buried in the drifted snow. The artist and author, Tesuya Honda has done a brilliant job of depicting a very rarified experience and made it come to life. It's positively magical. The book tells the story from the perspective of one young colt who is facing his first winter. It turns out to be an especially rough winter. The horses in this book are based on the real wild horses of Japan called Dosanko horses that are found on the island of Hokkaido. The ancestors of these horses were brought to Hokkaido over 300 years ago by merchants and fishermen. When the humans left in the cold winter months, they left the horses behind to fend for themselves. Many did not survive, but the ones that did developed into a new breed - the Dosanko. There are only about one thousand Dosanko horses in the world today. The story in this book about the Dosankos' experience with blizzard conditions is a recurring experience in real life. Read this fascinating book to learn the incredible way that these small horses have adapted to survive.<br />This book succeeds on several levels. It is a beautiful, evocative work of art. It is a thrilling story. It introduces us to a little-known species and celebrates the unique qualities of that species. It is a great look at the working of instinct among animals. It shows the strong bond that exists between parent and child as the mother horse protects her young colt during the storm. There are all kinds of wonderful conversation starters in this book to get children thinking about ecology and the preservation of rare species and also about mankind's responsibility to the animals we employ. Both adults and children who like horses will LOVE this book, but anyone who enjoys wildlife will certainly appreciate this book.rvation of rare species and also about mankind's responsibility to the animals we employ. Both adults and children who like horses will LOVE this book, but anyone who enjoys wildlife will certainly appreciate this book.	2001-12-20
US	41125812	R2NKBMSAS8KFRT	0399212337	514488834	The Donkey's Dream	Books	5	18	28	N	N	A Story For Everyone	I decided to write this review because I love this book very much, I love this author/illustrator's beautiful work and I love this timeless mythological story.  People say and rightfully so that this book tells the story of the night of Christ's birth. One of the reasons that I love this book is that it tells this familiar story that actually predates Christ by centuries without ever once using the well-known names of Bethlehem, Mary, Joseph or Jesus. You see, it is told from the perspective of the humble little donkey that carried the Mother who was pregnant with Her Son. A little donkey would know nothing of names, nothing of salvation, nothing of the doings of kings or priests or tax collectors.  By telling the tale from this humble perspective no one is excluded from it's sweet and graceful message.  I am a Pagan and at Winter Solstice or Yule I celebrate the Goddess's labor and delivery of her beautiful Son/Sun, the light,the sacrificial king who comes to renew the world, as the wheel of the year turns from it's dark half unto it's light half. The message of hope and life that the returning and growing rays of the sun promise to the sleeping earth fills my heart with gladness. I begin to anticipate spring and I renew my faith in the wisdom and love of the Earth's cycle.<br />The pictures in this book are exceedingly beautiful and tell the tale of the little donkey's dreams as he walks along. He doesn't know that he is carrying the hope of the world on his back, but he feels the magic in his dreams and thinks of a magnificent city glowing with promise, a huge rose glowing with softness and beauty, a fountain that waters the desert and brings the barren world to life with lush plants, and a sailing ship that carries him over the waters on his path. Like all good myths this story is timeless and transcultural. The symbols of one path speak the same language as others. The text is surrounded by lovely blue forget-me-nots on many pages and I think it is a gentle reminder to everyone to remember the inclusive message of the Winter Solstice and of Christmas that sees us all as one, bravely and faithfully facing the darkness together with hope in our spirits and love in our hearts. Ms. Berger uses a wonderful jewel-like blue color in many of the illustrations and it evokes a serene and peaceful feeling that adds to the overall message of the pictures.  The Queen of Heaven is draped in the softly glowing folds of a starry sky and her little baby son gives off a gentle glow in her arms. The story is so gentle and humble. I love this book because it tells a story that belongs to the whole world and it doesn't make anyone feel left out.der to everyone to remember the inclusive message of the Winter Solstice and of Christmas that sees us all as one, bravely and faithfully facing the darkness together with hope in our spirits and love in our hearts. Ms. Berger uses a wonderful jewel-like blue color in many of the illustrations and it evokes a serene and peaceful feeling that adds to the overall message of the pictures.  The Queen of Heaven is draped in the softly glowing folds of a starry sky and her little baby son gives off a gentle glow in her arms. The story is so gentle and humble. I love this book because it tells a story that belongs to the whole world and it doesn't make anyone feel left out.	2001-12-18
US	41125812	R1QTBEE7PKBDWA	0399216162	336706301	Nora's Stars	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Five More Stars For Nora	This book has really lovely illustrations and a magical imaginary story. Nora is visiting her grandmother and is learning about the wonders of a plum tree, a turtle and hibiscus flowers, all things that are new and exciting to her. After a busy day, as she's in bed, the toys from her grandmother's youth come alive and hop out of an old trunk that is in the bedroom with Nora. (...). It's a simple story, happily dreamlike, nothing scary, just a wonderful flight of fancy before drifting off to sleep. The illustrations are enchanting, sparkling like a night sky. The wakeful toys are charming and Nora's thorough but unselfish enjoyment of the stars makes for a comforting and positive idea to savor in those last moments before sleep. Stellar!	2001-12-18
US	41125812	R1ZHZCOHEOIR3Q	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Christmas Craziness	This is a funny, terribly true look at the way Christmas is performed by all too many people these days, myself included.  As you read about the manic, torturous and tacky preparations and commercial excesses for Christmas that take place in this community you'll feel like pulling your hair out, just like a real Christmas experience!  You'll feel overwhelmed and panicky and bored and slightly superior. You may get a twinge of the rebel spirit that the book's main character feels. The expense! The gauche decorations! The get-togethers with people you don't really relate to and the huge quantities of food and booze and work!  You'll feel the claustrophobic pressures of shopping and the rat-race will almost make you shriek!<br />  But then on Christmas Eve, the couple who has decided to skip Christmas faces a major emergency of hilarious proportions and the rat-race gets so much worse. I identified with Nora and Luther Krank and it just cracked me up the way our fed-up feelings dissipate under the magical power of the winter holidays.<br />  This book shows in a very witty, satirical and funny way that you can't easily skip Christmas because no matter what crazy trappings you foolishly muck it up with, it still comes shining through bearing its gifts of joy and community and love.<br />  This book has screenplay written all over it.  Read it and smile at yourself and the culture of Christmas.	2001-12-18
US	41125812	R1R3BZUIZI974R	068971050X	730472534	Woggle of Witches (Aladdin Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	&quot;Leave the dishes! It's time to go!&quot;...A Witch's Night Out	This is a charming book for Halloween reading pleasure with double page illustrations and minimal text that still packs in plenty of humor and spooky fun. Meet the witches deep in the heart of the dark forest as they wake up to celebrate that certain night!  Scoop a little bat stew out of the bubbling cauldron and then grab your broomstick for some ace flying.  The joyful faces on this woggle of witches as they cut loose with their Halloween hijinx are sure to make you smile, too.  But what's this?!  The witches get &quot;spooked&quot; by some trick-or-treaters that send them flying back home to the forest. A great time is had by all. I love the exciting atmosphere of celebration that this book creates with so few words.	2001-12-16
US	41125812	RSBJ5H3EAYROI	0517888130	475913993	The Whole Soy Cookbook, 175 delicious, nutritious, easy-to-prepare Recipes featuring tofu, tempeh, and various forms of nature's healthiest Bean	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Great Food That Is Also Great For You	This is a cookbook rarity in that every recipe in here is delicious.  I got this book when I was starting out trying to add soy to my diet for better health.  I only knew about tofu  and I wasn't very creative with it either.  This book showed me how to make delicious, healthy versions of foods I really love like Potatoes au Gratin, Soy Milk Pancakes, Soy Cheese Corn Bread, Pizzas and Focaccia, Cream of Asparagus Soup, chowders, chilis, desserts, stews, Kung Pao Tempeh, Tofu Lasagne, manicotti,Cajun dishes and even Tiramisu, just to name a few. This book teaches how to use all the different soy products with easy to follow recipes that will give your menu fresh delights based on foods you already know and love.  Each recipe has complete nutritional information.  There are addresses and phone numbers for soy product sources and places to write for detailed soy information of a general nature.  The author's information about the various soy products is a very understandable and helpful introduction to this often overlooked and misunderstood group of foods.  Her personal notes about each recipe help make the dishes seem like they came from a trusted friend's kitchen. The best way to make a change in your diet is to make the change as subtle as you can so that your old habits will not be so tempting.  These recipes will make you glad you added soy to your diet and your body and the environment will thank you.	2001-12-14
US	41125812	RU4JU6MAMGV8L	0307492729	858341601	Baker's Book of Chocolate Riches	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Chocolate Paradise	This is a slim little volume but totally packed with decadent, delicious delicacies, all made of chocolate.  The Wellesley Fudge Cake with Hungarian Chocolate Frosting that is pictured on the cover is a personal favorite of mine, a true &quot;company&quot; cake to bake if you want heaps of praise.  Try Cream Cheese Brownies, Pot de Creme au Chocolat, Chunky Chocolate Cookies that Tollhouse doesn't want to know about, or the incredible Chocolate Mousse Pie au Rhum.  The recipes are clear and easy to follow.  Mouth-watering photographs illustrate this book and will definitely encourage you to branch out and try some new recipes that are destined to become favorites.  It has a convenient wire spiral binding so it lays flat for ease of use in the kitchen. The various sections are as follows: Chocolate...Gift From the Gods; Cakes; Pies; Cookies; Desserts; Candies; Toppings; Chocolate Know-How. After his friend who started the chocolate mill drowned at sea, Dr. James Baker took over the Dorchester company in Massachusetts and made it a household word in large part due to the excellent quality that he insisted upon. Stemming from these New England roots there are several keepsake recipes in this book from the Boston area. The Wellesley Fudge Cake and Hungarian Chocolate Frosting alone are worth searching this book out and paying whatever they ask.	2001-12-14
US	41125812	RBHJT6L4PS3JL	0140559655	100385960	The Dog Who Found Christmas	Books	1	1	6	N	N	Written Just To Sell as a Christmas Book	The main character, a cute puppy named Buster is the best part of this predictable story about a pup who is abandoned in the cold, hard world after his typical puppy naughtiness causes his owners to get sick of him.  He then faces other uncaring people and some territorial animals like a big mean collie and a big mean tabby cat.  Finally he follows a whole group of people who are going house to house singing Christmas carols.  They don't even notice he's with them they're so wrapped up in their holiday spirit.  Finally an old man who lives alone takes Buster in and the day is saved.  The identical story could be told without the illustrations featuring Christmas trees, holly, or colorful paper chains.  It feels like those touches were added just to make a book that would sell at Christmas.  The illustrations are well executed and colorful.  The dog is as adorable as can be with sad eyes and one floppy ear but the collie and the tabby look like werewolves in comparison. Out of twelve adults and three children that come in contact with this baby dog on a cold winter's night, only one, the old man, even gives a hoot.  This might make a good conversation starter for teaching little ones about taking responsibility and having compassion but there are better ways to do that and there are certainly better holiday picture books to read to the kids at Christmastime.	2001-12-14
US	41125812	RBVO6VSR37HWH	0962471658	233809112	Vibrational Medicine Cards	Books	5	44	44	N	N	These Cards Are Sufficiently Beautiful Alone for 5 Stars	I got this deck of oracle cards and book set from my husband last year at Yule.  I love it very much for the exquiste beauty of the cards even though I have to roll my eyes at the extreme New Age claims that are associated with it.  The 64 different cards each have a colorful geometric image supposedly acting as a &quot;consciousness lens&quot; that focuses light and subtle energy as vibrations. Got that? The cards contain &quot;seed-forms&quot; that when brought into the consciousness can be used for spiritual healing. Okay. Each card has two words of text that are intended to assist in opening us to the Love-Light, one is a basic meaning or &quot;Old Earth&quot; keyword while the other is a complementarity (is that a word?), a New Earth heightening toward the Love-Light.  I want to point out that I realize that there are people out there who will be able to use this book and these lovely cards to meditate and to heal their traumatized cellular memory and to grow ever closer to Love-Light.  Just because that sounds like nonsense to me doesn't mean that the virtues this set promises to possess are not true.  It just means it hasn't manifested for me.  I really think that if you seriously take time with this set you will gain new understanding of your inner self and of the Universe. Each card has a corresponding affirmation and explaination in the book and nothing but positive can come from the contemplation of these symbols and insights.  I admit that I do not use this book or these cards for their intended purpose.  I just look at the cards quietly and allow their beautiful colors and designs and vibrations to wash over me. I do find them relaxing and healing but I don't pursue them intellectually in any way. I don't care about the book but you might.  I do recommend this set to you and I know you will enjoy it.	2001-12-13
US	41125812	R1NR9U26TAOZYO	1901223841	747293849	The Wizard King: & Other Spellbinding Tales	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Magical Stories From Many Cultures	This book contains nine folk and fairy tales from nine different cultures. The stories are printed in a medium size type and with simple, yet bright and inviting fantasy pictures, it is an open invitation to children to expand their reading skills while being pleasantly entertained.  These stories are sufficiently obscure to seem brand new to young readers and so provide a wonderful sense of discovery as well as a fun journey through the realm of make-believe. The tales come from the British Isles, Europe and Russia, the Mediterranean and also two from the treasure-house of North American Indian lore. John and Caitlin Matthews are brilliant scholars of folk history and of magical lore and their choices of these nine stories provide a beautiful opportunity to experience lesser known folk tales that are filled with magic and wisdom. Having been fortunate enough to visit the ancient stone circle in England called the Rollright Stones, my personal favorite story in this collection is &quot;The Witch of Rollright&quot; that tells how the ring of stones came to be standing where it is now located. The illustrations for this story include fairies dancing at the feet of the beautiful witch who kept the land safe from a would-be conquerer. The text contains tidbits of folklore concerning the offering of milk to the fey and the significance of the elder tree in pagan lore. All the stories have similar indigenous imagery. This is not your average fairy tale book but instead the Matthews have faithfully delivered gems of wisdom and whimsy from the simple people who lived with and understood these concepts as part of their daily lives. I heartily recommend this book.	2001-12-13
US	41125812	R3FP6ZQNAXU515	0091725496	295948854	The Wild Swans (Golden classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Classic Tale From the Irish	This hauntingly lovely tale of a sister's loving devotion has been retold and illustrated by many people since its beginning in antiquity in Ireland. This edition is one of my favorites because the illustrations of Helen Stratton are so beautiful and the embellishments that James Riordan puts on the tale are evocative and interesting and help to transport us into the story. The basic story itself is sad and scary and in the end happily triumphant. A little princess and her eleven princely brothers are bewitched by their evil stepmother. The girl is discredited and cast out of the kingdom while the brothers are transformed into wild swans by day only to turn back into human beings at dusk. The only way they can break free of the nasty spell is for their sister to fashion each of them a shirt made of yarn that has come from stinging nettles.  She has to crush and knead the nettles with her bare hands and feet and worse yet, she must not utter a single word from the time she begins her project until the end, so even her brothers will not understand what she is doing. The trials of the princess continue but in the end she is successful.  The illustrations have a wonderful Art Nouveau feel to them and the writing is filled with imaginative descriptions that make this old tale seem fresh and new without destroying its folklike flavor. Even simple place descriptions that only figure in a peripheral way in the story are lovely such as the following, &quot;The hills of cedar forests shone blue in the clear light of afternoon.&quot; Time and heart have been invested in the telling of this story and it is a treat indeed. Why in the world it is out of print is anyone's guess, but it is well worth searching it out. It was printed and bound in Italy and is an inexpensive type of binding but the story inside is priceless.	2001-12-13
US	41125812	R3C08I4LQFXLJ7	0140350365	842926584	Granny's Wonderful Chair (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	A Collection of Tales Loved By Frances Hodgson Burnett	Frances Browne, the author of this enchanting and original collection of fairy tales lived between 1816 and 1879.  She was blinded by smallpox when she was a baby and so all of the vivid descriptions in this charming book are from her own memory of the tales that she heard as a child and from her colorful imagination. In 1904 Frances Hodgson Burnett wrote an introduction for a new edition of the book because as a little child she had won a copy of it as a prize for good behavior in school. It became her favorite book but was lost to her over the years. She searched high and low for it and it eventually surfaced in Boston and again in a second hand shop in London. This edition contains the introduction by Burnett that is certainly an added treat.  It is brilliantly illustrated by Switzerland's Gisele Rime with her characteristic bright colors and whimsical decorative borders. Unlike other collections of fairy tales these are completely original and bring us new characters and plots with gentle moral lessons.  The fame of Frances Browne may not approach the Grimms or Andersen but the beauty and cleverness of her tales will enchant and delight you just the same. Curl up in Granny's wonderful chair, snuggle close and follow the stories of Fairyfoot and Childe Charity, Prince Wisewit and Merry Mind. Meet the Lords of the White and Grey Castles. This is a grand experience not just a good book.	2001-12-13
US	41125812	R3IGNO8MVZSJWA	0316488895	374281145	Talking Like the Rain: A Read-to-Me Book of Poems	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Every Child Deserves This Beautiful Book	This large, gorgeous picture book contains 123 poems perfectly suited for youthful excursions into the land of poetry.  You will find many favorites here as well as bountiful opportunity to make new friends. Emily Dickinson, Rachel Field, David McCord, Jane Yolen, Christina Rossetti, Langston Hughes, Elizabeth Coatsworth, and Robert Frost are just a few of the amazing talents that grace the pages of this book.  From the very beginning where a qote from Isak Dinesen's &quot;Out of Africa&quot; explains the title of the book, we are swept up in a cavalcade of imagery, sound and experience that is a true delight and feast for the imagination. Not only is this a wonderful introduction to poetry for children it is a giant step forward toward learning about creative visualization and self-expression. It is a fortunate child who learns to evoke response from others through the mastery and selection of words.  There is no better way to teach the art than to provide a child with the opportunity to experience the magic first-hand. The splendid illustrations in this book cheerily invite one to venture closer and then become the magic carpet that sweeps one from place to place within the book.  The subject matter covers a broad range of topics, humorous and thoughtful, and can serve as a wonderful catalyst to further discussion about poetry and the use of the imagination. After a long and satisfying relationship with this book, may I suggest that you place a special magical pen and a blank tablet of paper in the hands of your child and discover the wonders it has helped to deliver.  This book is truly an ambassador to creative expression.	2001-12-13
US	41125812	R2TODZ75A16AR2	1586633309	94718013	Lady Cottingtons Pressed Fairy Book	Books	2	7	16	N	N	Two Stars for Cleverness But It's Not Funny to Press People!	I know this is not meant to be serious.  I think this book is well done, clever with witty illustrations of &quot;pressed&quot; fairies unfortunate enough to have landed on the pages of Lady Cottington's scrap book.  Lady Cottington's journal with her messy handwriting and poor spelling compliments the whole satire. The repurcussions she suffers as a result of her grisly habit of squishing fairies is a subtle warning to those other folk who enjoy the pressing of butterflies or the harpooning of them to cotton displays. So, having said that, and promising you that I do indeed have a sense of humor, I must confess that I did not like this book. Why? I did not like the imaginary notion of intentionally killing fairies. It's that simple. Holding a book in ones hand and turning page after page, makes the joke of a passing tongue-in-cheek idea too much in the now.  It's not funny to press insects or fairies. Not many would consider making a funny little book about pressed babies or a silly little picture book about road kill. I know the point of the book is about insensitive people but insensitive people won't get the point anyway. There are lots funnier books out there, lots of better books on fairies, even better pseudo Victorian/Edwardian water color journals, so I suggest picking one of those instead.	2001-12-12
US	41125812	R5I0YZ09Q9J3P	0689823525	552281336	Fairies, Trolls, & Goblins Galore: Poems about Fantastic Creatures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Faery Folk Are Everywhere...	Seventeen charming poems and large brightly colored full page illustrations make up this wonderful book about the inhabitants of Fairyland which just so happens to be all around us if we have the eyes to see it. This book treats us to the inside scoop on 16 different beings as a little girl searches for the magical folk living around her. You will meet some of the lesser known beings such as the Pointed People, imps, a leshy, spriggans, hobgoblins and the banshee, along with our old favorites the fairies, pixies, leprechauns and sprites. The poems come from the pens of different writers, all wonderfully talented and each gives us a light-hearted private glimpse into the lives of the wee folk. A sample: &quot;And the grayish cobweb under the oak? A scrap torn off of a banshee's cloak.&quot;  You'll have fun searching the details on each page to spy out the fairies and goblins that are hiding in the nooks and crannies. Children (and fairies) of all different races grace the pages of this book and add to its hopeful and positive outlook. It's entirely possible to find the evidence of fairies everywhere...why not take a look?	2001-12-10
US	41125812	R20VI3OCT1EECT	0740719416	522769002	A Little Book Of Christmas Poems and Carols	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sing a Song of Christmas	This brightly colored little book just 5 1/4&quot; x 5 1/4&quot; is a fun way to share a bit of Christmas anticipation each night in the weeks preceding Christmas.  You can easily tuck your little ones in with a poem or carol from this charming book. Help build the excitement and understanding of Christmas with the quaint and touching Victorian illustrations that grace every page. All 19 of the poems are wonderful nostalgic evocations of the spirit of Christmas and include the works of many greats like Tennyson, de la Mare, Shakespeare, Frost, Longfellow, Poe, Rossetti, Masefield and Grahame, among others. The 18 carols are among the most beloved the world has ever known and will be familiar and fun for you to share. Lewis Carol's poem &quot;Christmas Greeting From a Fairy to a Child&quot; has an illustration of a lovely fairy with a star upon her brow and a long, sweeping dress lighting the candles on the Christmas tree with her sparkling wand. See a lively illustration of folks bundled with a cozy lap robe and wearing their muffs and fur collars out in the sleigh, the bob-tail horse pulling them jauntily past a frozen pond where ice-skaters glide, their cheeks and smiles aglow!  You will have the treat of enjoying the other two verses of Jingle Bells when you may have only known one before. This is a really dear book and will make a lovely part of any Christmas tradition.	2001-12-10
US	41125812	R33XPQLMFTIRNC	0915811812	381791390	Diet for a New America	Books	5	3	5	N	N	If You Eat You Should Know and Understand What is at Stake	I recommend this book to every person who eats. Most of us no longer grow our own fruits,vegetables and grains. For the most part, we do not hunt and kill and butcher our own meat. We rely upon a massive food industry, corporate farms, slaughterhouses,  meat packing plants and canning factories. Something that is essential to our very lives, to the continuance of our species, and the welfare of our fragile spaceship, Earth, we leave entirely in the hands of someone else. We give that huge power our complete trust and we naively believe that we are protected by the food laws of our government.<br />I say this. If you need to eat and be nourished you should be responsible enough to understand how this critical need is being met, what it costs and who pays. This book is the best I have ever seen on the subject and its effect on me was similar to the effect that &quot;The Jungle&quot; had when I first read that powerhouse of a book so long ago in my high school days. However, this book gave me a stronger feeling that I could do something personally to change the way things are.  Written by the scion of the Robbins family of Baskin-Robbins icecream fame, this well-researched book not only exposes the vile conditions that &quot;food&quot; animals experience and the horrors of chemical farming but it draws a holistic picture about our place in the earth's future. You don't have to be an animal rights activist or a vegan or vegetarian to benefit from this book. You may think that bothering about the foods you eat when you have such a busy and complex life is a waste of your time, but one of the things that we all share, that is fundamental to life itself, is the fact that we have to eat. So why not take this opportunity to understand the repercussions and ramifications of an act that you probably do several times every day?<br />  This book might make you angry, sad, disgusted, and worried, but it will also give you ideas on how to help and heal. I honestly feel that anyone who loves the children that they feed, who cherishes their own body through whose senses they enjoy life, or who calls themselves a friend to animals and the environment should read this book because it is a great aid in helping one to conduct oneself with dignity and responsibility and compassion in a world where many have become far too trusting of the corporate hand that feeds us.loves the children that they feed, who cherishes their own body through whose senses they enjoy life, or who calls themselves a friend to animals and the environment should read this book because it is a great aid in helping one to conduct oneself with dignity and responsibility and compassion in a world where many have become far too trusting of the corporate hand that feeds us.	2001-12-10
US	41125812	R2A3ZU4BWSK0HF	0316968943	55515817	The Girl in the Golden Bower	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Golden Treasure of a Book	This is one of those rare perfect books that transports you completely into its pages and guides you along a twisting, enchanted path overgrown with wonders and delights until you emerge at the end, calmly satisfied from your travels. Jane Yolen's story-telling is as lovely as ever and has little rhyming spells sprinkled throughout that make the tale seem as though you are there at its unfolding. The illustrations are truly marvelous and curl up around the text which is printed on a softly glowing golden wash. Flowering vines climb up around the borders of many of the pages. The tale has a little orphaned girl set against a wicked witch who comes looking for an enchanted treasure.  Before her mother dies she gives the little girl a beautiful golden comb as a keepsake. The witch puts a spell on the child to try to force her into revealing the location of the enchanted treasure that she knows has to be somewhere nearby.  The animals of the forest befriend the little girl and in the end a wonderful justice occurs.  The story is so precious and has a thoughtful message to suggest.  This has a lot of the ingredients that you've seen in countless other fairy tales but here they seem so freshly tender and heart-touching. Treat yourself and any little ones you know to a splendid story.	2001-12-09
US	41125812	RYA4RJN2Q3G0E	0735812136	241982722	Thumbeline	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Beautiful Little Tale	Hans Christian Andersen's story of Thumbeline is so endearing that it's no wonder that so many authors have written their own versions of it and so many illustrators have had a go at making tiny Thumbeline come to life.  This version, translated by Anthea Bell and illustrated by Lisbeth Zwerger is brimming with charm, rustic folk sensibilities, kindness and compassion spiked with just the right amount of perilous adventure to make it interesting, and a lovely magical feel. The story is well told in satisfyingly descriptive language.  The illustrations are superb! Zwerger does a wonderful job with all of the animal characters that Thumbeline encounters and manages to infuse them with emotion and intelligence as well as country charm. Little red-haired Thumbeline is delicate and sweet in several lovely costumes with a peasant feel to them. You know the tale...a woman tells a witch that she wants a &quot;tiny child&quot; and the magic gives her exactly what she wishes for, a tiny child no bigger than her thumb.  Thumbeline is born from the heart of a tulip. She's so beautiful and sweet that every small suitor in the neighborhood wants her hand in marriage, including a toad, a mole and a June beetle. They are not interested in the fact that she does not want to marry them!  She gets help from other wee folk in the woodland community and makes a good friend when she saves the life of a swallow. The story ends happily for Thumbeline. It may be desirable to point out to your young ones that not every unattached female needs to find a husband, especially very young ones like Thumbeline, and that kidnapping and force are not true ways to get a girl to marry you!  Children are smart enough to know that but it's still a good idea to talk over the odd concepts that a child may be thinking about after you read this story.  I love this old-fashioned story and this re-telling adds beautifully to its charm and therefore justifies its conception.	2001-12-09
US	41125812	R245C4W7798BGN	0374330603	516319633	Hey, Al	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Almost Trapped in Paradise!	A janitor named Al and his faithful friend, a dog named Eddie live in New York in a cramped, rather dingy apartment. They are pretty sick of it and Eddie gripes about it to Al. One day they fall into a bit of magic and escape the world that they are tired of and end up on a flying island in the air that is populated by all kinds of fantastic tropical birds. They feel like they are in paradise but, of course, they find out that paradise isn't all it's cracked up to be.<br />What I love about this book is the wonderful illustrations, full of bright colors and gentle humour, and the dialog that sounds just the way a janitor from the West Side of New York City might. I love the way Al and Eddie learn to make their lives better by the end of the story. What I don't particularly like is that the &quot;moral&quot; seems to say that you really shouldn't dream of paradise on earth because it's not okay to kick back and luxuriate and live in leisure because that's just not naural for human beings. It's just too preachy and simplistic. Why can't magic take you to paradise and it all turns out GREAT? Why do we have to feel like if we're not struggling along and doing what we've always done, then it's going to come back and haunt us eventually? I did like the way the book emphasized how precious friendship is and how lost we are without it.<br />This is a book for little ones and they will love the pictures and characters. They will love, as I do, the friendship between Al and Eddie. It got the 1987 Caldecott medal for Illustrations for a reason! I think it's a good book but I was bummed that Al and Eddie couldn't have their cake and eat it, too. I mean if a giant tucan can hoist you aloft to a fantasy island, why can't the fantasy be perfect?!	2001-12-08
US	41125812	RMSBJHWIPA648	0740719424	742571191	Little Book Of Christmas Stories And Recipes	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Little Charmer	This charming little volume is only 5 1/4' x 5 1/4&quot; and would certainly fit into a stocking but I suggest you make a treat of it before Christmas. It is illustrated with vintage Victorian images filled with the innocence and magic of Christmas. It contains two Christmas stories from The Bible, the chapter from &quot;The Birds' Christmas Carol&quot; where baby Carol gets her name, a chapter from &quot;Little Women&quot;, the famous &quot;Yes, Virginia There Is a Santa Claus&quot; letter, some Charles Dickens Christmas NOT from &quot;A Christmas Carol&quot;, Eleanor Roosevelt's memory of Christmas, and Hans Christian Andersen's &quot;The Last Dream of the Old Oak Tree&quot;. Best of all is an excerpt from O. Henry's &quot;Gift of the Magi.&quot;  The excerpts will hopefully whet your appetite for the complete versions of the stories.  The scope of this tiny book is just to &quot;taste&quot; a sample.<br />  The recipes are DELISH! The Egg Nog and the Crispy Gingerbread Cookies are especially fine.  My favorite is Red and White Peppermint Cake.  There are so many good things packed in this little book that it must have a bit of the same magic that Santa's toy-sack has!	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R1GS4H2TQT4JUD	0811828549	880672681	Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star On All the People That I Love	My youngest son has suffered from severe asthma ever since he was an infant and he's almost 20 years old now. Some of my most painful memories are of watching him struggle with the torture of this disease when he was very small, and feeling the awful helplessness a parent feels when they have done all they can and still the suffering continues.  When my son was at his sickest we would snuggle close and I would rub his back and quietly sing &quot;Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star&quot; to him in a slow, soothing voice. Sometimes I would need to sing it for a long while before he could finally relax enough to fall asleep. I had to learn all the verses besides the familiar one and I had to make up several additional ones, too!  As he grew older I continued to sing it when things were bad. When he was sad or in pain or facing a tough time, he would cuddle up and ask for a back rub and &quot;Twinkle Twinkle.&quot;  I think he was 18 the last time I sang it and he was suffering heartbreak rather than asthma. Well, to get to the point, this book does complete justice to the special song that has meant so much in our lives. It has all of the verses and they are very beautiful.  Sylvia Long's lovely illustrations show little animal children dressed in cute clothes like sweaters and blue jeans as they sit together on a country hill gazing up at the diamonds in the sky.  Then we see each of the children go to their own homes where their loving parents cuddle them off to bed.  They have such cute and colorful jammies on. The love between a parent and child shines throughout this little charmer just like a twinkling star. I love it!	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R2382MM853DAZ3	0517162423	606890361	The Enchanted Garden	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Enchanting...No Doubt About It	This beautifully crafted book has silky pages and a beautiful dustjacket.  It is lavishly illustrated with about 50% Pre-Raphaelite paintings and the other 50% botanical paintings by Benjamin Perkins.  The Pre-Raphaelite works are exquisite choices, really enhance the text and make it seem like a delicious indulgence in pleasure.  The botanical works are detailed and skillfully rendered and are also wonderful choices that enrich the text. The borders of the pages are decorated as well. The text includes chapters on fairies and angels in the garden, tree spirits and fairy trees, flowers and the feminine spirit, and calling a unicorn into the garden. It is atmospheric and lyrical and sprinkled with whimsy and at the same time it is serious and contemplative. There is much lore and folk wisdom here. It encourages a multi-dimensional relationship with gardens and is filled with healing, magic and beauty as all gardens are.  I highly recommend it.	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R7VM8INE13VC9	0525467343	734733545	Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A Fine Way to Treat Your Children to Robert Frost	Please read the poem to your children out loud if they're old enough to follow it.  Allow them the intense pleasure of visualizing the scene on their own before sharing another person's visualization with them.  By all means, share this book, a beautiful, atmospheric slice of winter with them.  Susan Jeffers has done such a splendid job on the illustrations.  They are a hushed, crunchy-cold excursion into the dark solstice night in the deep woods.  The only bits of color come from the living beings, the colorful man and his grandchildren and the shy forest animals he comes to feed.  The stark, snow covered tree branches are illuminated to perfection and the big feathery snowflakes float down about you as you read.  My favorite picture is the second to last one but I won't spoil it by telling you about it, except to say, see if it doesn't perfectly capture the reality you remember.  This is a lovely book in and of itself, regardless of others that may have come before. Enjoy!	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R10G3YW9VMDUU	0867130687	563347444	Have a Cool Yule: Merry Christmas from Will Bullas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Merry and Bright !	This little volume only 61/2&quot; x 7&quot; is a perfect gift for you to give to some harried person you love that has been scurrying around, shopping, baking, cooking, cleaning, wrapping and decorating to make the holidays wonderful.  I suggest you put it on a tray with some hot cocoa (with a candy cane in it) and a couple of those Christmas cookies and serve it up with a kiss BEFORE Christmas Eve. It contains 33 colorful and very funny and endearing paintings of charming animals in zany holiday motiff.  You'll love them all but my favorite is a big Polar Bear expectantly puckered up beneath the mistletoe, and I know you'll chuckle when you see the walrus in his Santa suit. The only text is a witty caption beneath each picture so there's no &quot;work&quot; to enjoying this book.  Maybe throw in a pair of warm slippers when you give this book and stick around to share the smiles.	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R1WOIVBARPFPNF	0062503413	865988133	Companion to Narnia	Books	5	77	80	N	N	An Excellent Traveling Companion	I first entered Narnia as a child, simply pushing the fur coats aside and stepping through the wardrobe into the snowy world near the lamp post.  I didn't need a guide book. Things just unfolded and I went with the flow of wonders.  I came back for an extended visit when I was expecting my first child. There were concepts there that I had not noticed before as &quot;concepts&quot;. I felt inspired and doubly moved by its beauty. Now, I'm at the &quot;grandma&quot; age if not yet in that reality. I've popped back in to visit old friends and this guide book is truly a &quot;companion.&quot;  I realize that the word &quot;companion&quot; in the title refers to the fact that this volume is a companion to the Narnia books, but for me the title has a double meaning, in that it is also my companion on the journey to Narnia, my tour guide, so to speak.<br />  This book takes you by the hand and encourages you to look closer, gently pointing out the secrets of the locale that only the natives might know.  It gives insights and provokes thought and dialogue. It is a neat holistic view that encourages an appreciation for the big picture by illuminating the subtle details. It is also the kind of tribute to the minute of one's heroes that all &quot;fans&quot; love to pour over. If you are a young person just let Lucy help you find your way into Narnia and I assure you that you will have a splendid time, but if you are a bit older I recommend this travelog and the company of this wonderfully helpful and insightful book.<br />  This book also contains an insightful foreward by Madeleine L'Engle, author of &quot;A Wrinkle in Time&quot;.	2001-12-07
US	41125812	R25P1Y57EQWG2K	1578660831	329306226	A Cat's Little Instruction Book	Books	5	9	10	N	N	My Cats Didn't Write This Book But I KNOW They've Read It!	I could add instruction number 202...&quot;always try to lay across the keyboard when someone is typing, if that doesn't work, attack the ankles under the desk.&quot;  This is a cat's book of proper feline ettiquette.  It is funny and will make you smile when you recognize your own cats within its pages.  It's a nice compact volume, just 4&quot; x 6&quot;, and might make a good gift the next time your cat incessantly bangs on the bedroom door after you and your partner have discreetly closed it for privacy's sake. This book shows that there's an art to being a cat, but it's a spiritual calling to be a cat lover.	2001-12-07
US	41125812	RSZQLJA9YHCIS	0765110539	736757532	Faeries: Doorways to the Enchanted Realm	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Step Through the Doorway!	This is a lovely book that any wild-hearted person will enjoy. By stepping through this Doorway to the enchanted realm you will meet the Daoine Sidhe, the Sith, the Tuatha de Danann, the Twylth Teg and many more beings of the faery worlds.  The chapters cover the topics of Enchantment, Mischief, Good Fortune, Faery Encounters, and Various Faeiries and Others, so as you can see there is a lot of valuable information packed into a conveniently sized package.  The author has delved into the vast treasure house of faery paintings to bring us the beautiful and fantastic illustrations for this book. Many of the illustrations that you may have seen before are here enlarged to a satisfying size that provides detail. Richard Doyle and Arthur Rackham are here just to name two...there is so much more and all wonderful. Bits of faery poetry are sprinkled in among the art and folk history so the whimsical feel of fey is absorbed on many levels. Lots of practical hints on the best rules of comportment when dealing with faeries are sure to prove useful. Come in! Come in! The door's open!	2001-12-06
US	41125812	R2AFK5SSYA37C1	0670817406	785780449	The Forbidden Door (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Out of This World: A Book of Unearthly Beauty	This is an exceptionally beautiful story book with large detailed illustrations of an alien world that is located on the smallest star that can be seen in our skies, in the Valley of the Bao-Bickle tree. It is about the quest of a young girl whose home is in an intricate labyrinth of caves and who has never even heard of a world outside of those caves.  It is forbidden to go outside.  She is very happy with her parents and lives in splendor within the caves where even lush exotic fruit trees are plentiful. One night the little girl learns about Outside from a story her mother tells. She begins to secretly search for this mysterious place and eventually learns the terrifying truth about why her family lives in the caves. With the help of another strange species of beings she sets things to rights.  The story is well told and has a decidedly alien feeling of enchantment, danger, courage, hunger and liberation.  It is simple enough that little ones will find it an exciting adventure tale and complex enough that adults will find it an atmospheric and moody allegory.  The illustrations are INCREDIBLE and like none you have ever seen outside of dreams, visions or hallucinations.  Please find a copy of this book and treat yourself to splendor.	2001-12-06
US	41125812	R2DO5SNK791GEA	0773757252	938555058	Midnight On the Farm	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Masterpiece	I wish I could give a whole galaxy of stars to this book instead of only five!  This book is a perfect bedtime story for a child or for an adult. The book is brimming with gentle, drowsy imagery and you feel softly drawn into the dreamy world of a warm night with moonlit pastures and peaceful, slumbering creatures.  The art is EXQUISITE! We are beguiled with starlight and moonbeams, cascading magnolia petals, misty valleys, moonshadows and softly glowing embers in the fireplace. The sleeping farm and the little boy who watches the peaceful night descend complete this enchanting treasure.	2001-11-29
US	41125812	R3KTE7EQDK3556	1569371016	600984721	Children of the Earth	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enchanting Earthchildren, Dull Text	This little book from the Netherlands is filled with quaint, engaging pictures of Earthchildren who are little spirits of the earth and are very involved with all the living growing plants and animals.  They are tiny like fairy folk but they have no wings. Their mother looks a bit like Mother Goose. They start out sleeping in soft brown clothes and they spruce up into bright colors to greet the springtime. The pictures are absolutely brilliant, fresh and innocent, colorful and joyful with satisfying details in the flowers and little critters.  The rhyming text is stilted and forced but thankfully is not necessary for the enjoyment of this pretty book.	2001-11-29
US	41125812	R14JR3ZYU7S47X	1558580344	274887430	Princess and the Pea, The	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Real Princess	PLEASE NOTE! This review is for the version that is illustrated by Dorothee Duntze. Everyone knows this Hans Christian Andersen story about the bedraggled princess who shows up looking for shelter on a stormy night. She might be a good match for the prince who's been searching for a &quot;real&quot; princess so the queen mother runs a little test...the rest is the subject of fairy tales! This version is simply told and beautifully illustrated. The pictures, executed in soft pastel colors, have a quirky Art Deco feel to them that I thoroughly enjoyed. The gowns of all the ladies in the book are done in a collage style and are covered in intricate patterns and designs. Lovely...the real thing!	2001-11-29
US	41125812	R3QZFYAISOSBA5	0140547142	23787772	Thumbelina (Picture Puffin)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Little Gem	The familiar Hans Christian Andersen story of Thumbelina has received the royal treatment from Susan Jeffers. Her large, lovely pictures make this seem like you are stepping into the story for the first time. Thumbelina is so dainty and sweet that it's no wonder the toad wishes to marry her but poor Thumbelina has a harrowing time escaping from her warty suitor. Share a trumpet vine blossom with Thumbelina, a pair of hummingbirds and a fat bumble bee or take a ride with her on the back of a gallant swallow.  This whole story is enchanting from start to finish and the pictures are a delight!	2001-11-29
US	41125812	RCRQTSEE0WWM1	0439098637	950695006	Aquamarine	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Changing Like the Sea	This is a beauty, a hardcover only 5&quot;x7&quot; with 105 small pages of text, an irredescent sea-blue dustjacket featuring a picture of a swimming mermaid. It would make a lovely gift. This book is intended for pre-teen and teenaged girls but anyone with a romantic heart will enjoy it. It is about dreading change, facing change, and coping with change and at the same time it is about the need for change. Two best friends who have been together all their lives and seen each other through difficult changes in their family dynamics like death and divorce are facing another huge change but this time they'll have to face it separately. Claire is moving away and Hailey has to stay behind and to top it off the beach club where they've wiled away every summer has crumbled into decay and is being demolished.  Their friend Raymond who is facing changes of his own and a naive little mermaid who demands change help the girls to ride the waves and do some growing in the process.  There are nice little flourishes of magic and romance and melancholy throughout.  It's a sweet story.	2001-11-29
US	41125812	R1T1A1GDW7Z3P0	0439244013	908217529	The First Snow	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When Mother Nature Was a Little Girl	This is a charming story book in every sense.  The illustrations are colorful and beautifully executed, giving a magical feeling to the tale of young Mother Nature's first experience with young Winter. Young Winter can't understand why little Mother Nature won't accept him so he seeks the friendly advice of a huge polar bear named Aunt Artica.<br />You'll smile at the tactics Mother Nature uses to fend off this perplexing cold weather she faces.  The text is lyrical and evocative such as when Summer tells the little girl it is time for her to be leaving and &quot;she packed her trunk full of warm and green breezes.&quot;  This is a fun one to read to children during the November drearies, perhaps over fresh baked gingerbread.	2001-11-29
US	41125812	R2RBOT02CUTLRD	1550374656	726392437	Nicky's Birthday	Books	5	0	0	N	N	LOST: One cat. Please Contact Nicky the Witch	I love the illustrations in this book.  They are filled with zany details and lots of insider views of shops owned by witches that made me laugh.  Nicky is a little girl witchling who is about to celebrate her birthday but her cat is missing! As she searches the shops of lots of quirky older witches, readers can peek through little cut-out doors to see if they can spot the missing kitty.  The story has a nice surprise ending and is a fun,imaginative romp with a make-believe witch. Not strictly speaking a Halloween story but would be a good one for that time of year.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R7L1KIIC8N2S3	0698118499	313553330	Tanya and the Magic Wardrobe (Picture Puffins)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fun For Little Ballerinas	Warm-hearted, colorful illustrations carry us along with Tanya and her new friend, the wardrobe lady at the performance of the ballet Coppelia.  When Tanya gets lost backstage she is lucky enough to experience a &quot;show and tell&quot; about some of the costumes from other famous ballets. She dances with the wardrobe lady and the French ballet terms are sprinkled liberally throughout the story.  This book would be well appreciated by a certain niche of readers but would probably not be of interest to non-dancers.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R3TQW04XE67B6Q	044041542X	670329572	The Islander	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Loaded with Atmosphere and Magic	This is a slim little book that you will probably love enough to own the hardcover version that is fast disappearing! It can easily be read in a single sitting and you will wish that it was longer. Pre-teen and teenaged people will enjoy it as will adults with romantic souls. It is set on an island off the Pacific Coast of Bristish Columbia and so has sea atmosphere and enchantment swirling about it like fog and salt-scented breeze. The story is poignant and the writing is sensitve and lyrical. An orphaned boy is living on this small island with his grandfather. He is given a magical gift by a mermaid and it makes a big difference in his life. Since this is a short and beautifully simple book I don't want to spoil it for you by giving away too many details but I found it very touching. The descriptions in the book transported me to the island and opened my heart to all the characters. It is a ghostly, magical love story on several different levels. Don't miss it!	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R1RPA9C8FG7NCU	188321114X	426777263	Mermaids (Magical Beings)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	If You're Looking for Facts, Check the Britannica	This slim, beautiful little volume is very satisfying if you are looking to enjoy the beauty of mermaids.  It does not have a lot of &quot;facts&quot; but why would you be searching for facts about mermaids when they inhabit the nebulous realm of magic?  This book contains 49 full color illustrations of mermaids, some of the more famous ones like Waterhouse's and Pyle's are included, but so are many that you probably will not have seen before.  Ratisseau is a brilliant compiler and she has outdone herself here with super research and a flair for the subject.  The text consists of many wonderful quotes, again, some famous and some obscure.  The page lay-outs are tasty and most of the illustrations have a luminous sea-blue border around them, all printed on quality paper and perfect for gift-giving or for treating yourself.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R14MX1C6KXL3KG	0965206300	28494957	Fairies Have Wings, but They're Not Angels	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If You Can't Tell A Fairy from an Angel, This Might Help	This book contains 53 important facts about fairies that a lot of fairy friends probably already know, at least in their hearts, but it will prove valuable as a resource for the poor challenged souls who cannot tell a fairy from an angel. It's a real treat for those of us who know fairies well. It is clever and humorous and also offers invaluable aids for the spotting of fairies if you don't already know how.  The illustrations are wonderful and show fairies with complex fairy wings that look as though they have grown from an actual fairy and not from a butterfly or some other insect and certainly not from a bird! You will also see a dragon, fair lads, and fairy homes and gardens.  Leslie D'Allesandro Hill has truly captured fairies in this cool book, but as she points out in fact number 22, &quot;Fairies can be caught, but there are no containers to keep them in.&quot;  Catch this book.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R1SQ1MZ0ROBO9I	1587170582	534062359	Kate Culhane: A Ghost Story	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Ghostly But Too Yucky	I love Michael Hague's art so I usually snap up anything he does. In this book which is a retelling of a mid-nineteenth century ghost story from Ireland, Hague is in his usual great form with the illustrations. This is a spooky tale with some pretty ghastly imagery that Hague really nails. While visiting the new grave of her mother, poor Kate Culhane accidently steps on another nearby grave and becomes the unwilling servant of its inhabitant as a result. The ghost is a vampire of sorts and requires her to cut her boyfriend and mix some of his blood in with some oatmeal and eat it. See what I mean? Yucky! Kate is a clever girl, however, and she figures a way out of this mess but not until she's really gone through a lot of trauma. Please don't read this to any little kids until you've checked it out yourself. It really is a no-holds-barred ghost story and a good one but I would rather see Hague illustrate a scary story that doesn't have bloody oatmeal in it. But that's just me....	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R20Q6WA6H8JFZW	0803711492	296601100	A Job for Wittilda	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If My Pizza Guy Rode a Broom Maybe the Pizza Would Be Hot	The 47 cats that witch Wittilda has taken in and cares for are down to their last dried rat! Wittilda goes job hunting and becomes a pizza delivery person with the added edge of swift broom locomotion. She loves her job but the competition is fierce. She gets in a bind when she has to choose between her kind hearted ways and her job.  This is such a fun book with super illustrations. There's loads of humour, bright colors, and clever little details to search for, hidden among the hubbub on each page. Wittilda will win your heart.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R2ALU16KCOGZA6	155209006X	767616494	The Tree That Grew to the Moon	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Another Tree Grows in Brooklyn and Keeps Right On Going	This is a book with brightly colored illustrations that shows the imaginings of a little girl and her mother as they discuss the tree seedling that the little girl finds wilting on a hot summer day in Brooklyn.  There's nothing particularly interesting about the story. It's a conversation between two people who are enjoying topping each other's &quot;tall tale&quot; type of ideas for the tree's future. It would be a sweet thing to observe in real life because of the warm-hearted spontaneity it would require but when it's transferred to paper it becomes stilted.  The pictures are each lively and bright but there is little to distinguish one picture from the next. Not a bad book, just not a good book.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R1IUHHYA2T8GZ1	0140547517	453332971	A Fairy Went a-Marketing	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Beautiful New Pictures for An Old Favorite	This story of a lovely fairy's marketing day was originally published in 1918.  This book's bright detailed pictures are a wonderful glimpse into fairyland. As the fairy indulges herself with thrilling purchases she remembers to treat all creatures with kindness. The fauna and flora in this book are beautifully detailed and the realistic snow-drops, bleeding hearts, trilliums, and thistles make you feel like you too are a-marketing with the fairy.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	RNFW991IL3UQ8	0395700922	258563604	The Witches' Supermarket	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Does the Witches' Supermarket Carry This Book?	A trick-or-treating little girl with her dog (who's dressed up like a cat) picks up a coupon that an old lady drops and follows her to return it. Quite unsuspectingly they end up in an exclusive supermarket for witches and cats!  The drawings in this book are a stitch and are so filled with funny details that I had a lot of fun pouring over each page.  When the girl &amp; her dog as cat are discovered, chaos insues.  The madcap adventure is a nice Halloween treat to slip into your little goblin's bag of goodies.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R2LSXND2SO055T	1563053136	726501628	Nonsense & Common Sense: A Children's Book of Victorian Verse	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Victorian Treasure Trove	If you love Victorian illustration you will be in heaven with this terrific book. It is a treasury of over 100 Victorian era verses set up in sections about Childhood Years, Sprites and Goblins, Rules for Growing Up, Absurdities, and the World of Nature. The illustrations are full color and just as charming as you could possibly wish. The quality of the paper, printing, cover, and dustjacket are all top-notch. There are interesting margin notations that give the history and background of the verses and pictures. Here's a parting thought from the book. &quot;Ride, ride the carousel, Reach for the golden ring, Never to finish, But begin again. Life is a circular thing.&quot;	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R3H5FBW6POSCMY	0899194141	521438868	Scary, Scary Halloween	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Fun, Fun Halloween	I love this little book about Halloween night! It has the usual bright, colorful work that we have come to expect from the talented Jan Brett.  Eve Bunting's fun-filled rhymes have just the right amount of spookiness for little ones.  The Halloween images are fresh and creative and include the autumn ambiance of the orange Chinese lantern flowers on the cover.  You will see a marvelous, flowing ghost, a jaunty dancing devil, a hunched and sauntering werewolf and so much more.  Be sure to notice the mummy costume...what kind of kid is in there under those winding cloths?  This will be a Halloween treat for any little goblin that you love.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	RRWORLJ4NSN31	0316375624	758116833	Jack and the Beanstalk	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Jack and the Beanstalk...Nothing New	Jack and the Beanstalk is a great story.  This book has good illustrations with medieval costumes and a really impressive giant and giant's wife. The colors are mostly dark and brooding in this book.  I would look for a more lively version.	2001-11-28
US	41125812	R300M1DS9EVB4J	0786812044	76848796	Grandmother's Pigeon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Bookful of Wonder	The illustrations in this book are wonderful and are a perfect compliment to this strange,comforting story of a loving family and the legacy of their magical grandmother. There are some subtle nuances that parents will pick up if they pay attention. This is a tale about ecology and love for free and wild creatures, with a bit of shamanism thrown in for good measure. There is humour here and wisdom. I love this book for the satisfying feeling of gentle wonder that I feel as I turn the last page and close the book. I recommend it to all with childish hearts.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	RIANNJXOPL938	0525455191	518667360	Eeyore's Gloomy Little Instruction Book (Winnie-the-Pooh)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	You'll Probably Like This Book Unless You Don't	Just 5&quot;X6&quot; this charming little book, inspired by A.A. Milne, makes an excellent gift. It has delightful illustrations and lots of sage advice from the beloved dreary donkey.  Have a copy on hand for yourself to read on those days when you're feeling a bit sorry for yourself and are on the verge of becoming a whiner. It always makes me laugh at myself and there's nothing like a laugh to lift the gloom...but don't tell Eeyore. If you don't like this book just remember what Eeyore said, &quot;Don't blame me.&quot;	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R2VOYNFZ7I96PR	0763609978	586600950	Fairy Tales	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Twelve Classic FairyTales That Shine Like New	This is a physically beautiful volume, medium sized and easy to hold while you have your arm around another person.  The illustrations are unique and creative and accented with gold which adds to the magical ambiance. The pages have colorful decorated borders and the interesting use of silhouettes is striking. The text is true to the original tales while being melodious, fresh and inviting. Don't miss the enchanting picture of Cinderella that goes with this text, &quot;She heard a fluttering as if all the leaves were unfurling at once, and the birds of the tree flew down carrying a silver dress and slippers that glittered like stars.&quot; Now isn't that a little better than Bibbity Bobbity Boo?	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R3V2Y2BFCWS5BQ	1558586288	996150846	Marushka and the Month Brother	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Colorful Czechoslovakian Folktale	Many people have told and retold the folktale about Marushka and the cruel way her stepmother and lazy stepsister treat her. This retelling is much the same as the others so I withheld one star. However, Marushka's story is a classic one of good-hearted innocence triumphing over selfishness and this version includes the marvelous characters, the Month Brothers who are instrumental in helping poor Marushka to accomplish the impossible tasks she is ordered to do. The illustrations are folksy and simple but just filled with atmosphere and are the best part of the book. It is an overall pleasurable read with the repetitive sort of storyline that helps little ones learn to follow a plot.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R1JA9DNV34WA28	006024903X	929737741	Wind Child	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Story for a Windy Day	The next blustery day, the kind where you stay in doors and make soup, curl up with this book and enjoy a wonderful experience. The illustrations are lovely and filled with the motion of wind.  You can almost hear and feel it about you as you go into the story. The writing is lyrical and evocative, brimming with romance and mystery. A girl who does not realize she is the daughter of the stormy east wind develops into a weaver with magical talents of artistry and eventually wins her heart's desire. Here's a sample about her father so you can just imagine how lovely HER story is. &quot;He found a girl who was not afraid of his wildness. They were wed. He built her a house of blowing branches and wind-torn cloud.They were happy there. She bore him a daughter, but then she died.&quot; I love this book and I encourage you to read it and let it sweep you up in the winds of its magic.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R1M4EID4TSGHUJ	1887734147	452572783	Wish Ring	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Excellent Moral, Dull Story	This book which features a German folktale and brightly colored illustrations tells the story of a peasant couple who find a magic ring that will grant them just one wish. They are frugal and choose to get ahead in their lives through their own hard work, always saving the ring for that one special occasion. There is some magic in this tale, loving cooperation, a bit of treachery...all things that could make an interesting story, but this one doesn't have any magic in the words, no wonder, no sparkle. The illustrations are very nice and really carry the book.  I like this book but there are lots better ones out there.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	RD4QEIG8FXY40	0803721722	197674571	The Goblin Baby: Adapted from a Story by Andrew Lang	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wee Folk and Flowers and a Changeling...Great B ook!	Lauren Mills' illustrations are among the best in children's literature and they really make this beautiful story of a little girl coping with the addition of a new baby brother to her life. Her friends, the garden gnomes,convince her that this unpleasant little interloper must be a changeling. They hatch a plan to get the real baby back.  The story is enchanting with lots of satisfying details for all lovers of the wee folk and the pictures of the gnomes in their quaint folk costumes are truly precious.  Every page has lovely detailed flowers straight out of a cottage garden, camomile, love-in-a-mist, white poppies, larkspur, johnny-jump-ups and ferns. The flowers add to the magical atmosphere of the enchanted world that the little girl lives in. I love this book and it would make a good conversation starter for anybody who may be faced with getting a new baby...changeling or otherwise.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	RFXNPH7AKWRG5	0395160332	129489991	The Giant Jam Sandwich	Books	5	22	23	N	N	This Has Been a Feast for MORE Than a Hundred Weeks!	This kooky story has been around for 30 years and is about a severe problem that the folks of Itching Down were having when four million wasps flew into town. It tells how the townsfolk figured out a brilliant plan to solve that problem.  The rhyming text is fun to read and my kids and I had it memorized in no time and went around the house saying it aloud and laughing our heads off.  Even though we've always had a pretty big library of bedtime stories this was the hands down favorite of my four boys and one of mine as well.  At first I wasn't too thrilled with the illustrations because they're really cartoonish but the zany characters, all up in arms about the winged menace are actually a perfect compliment to the fun-loving text and they have really grown on me.  In this day of chemical pollutants maybe a giant jam sandwich isn't too silly of an idea anyway!	2001-11-27
US	41125812	RTFKGI0976WO4	1883211123	382613205	Fairies (Magical Beings)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	&quot;The woods are full of fairies!&quot; and So Is This Book	This beautifully crafted little book is a thin volume just 7 1/2&quot; x 8 1/2&quot; with silvery accents on the cover.  It is a satisfyingly enchanting compilation of rare fairy art and delightful quotations on the subject of fairies.  If you have been a fairy lover for any length of time you will have probably seen a few of these wonderful paintings but most will probably be new to you as Elizabeth Ratisseau has done a brilliant bit of treasure hunting to come up with these images. The work is broken down into sections for each of the four elements, Earth, Air, Fire and Water, as well as a section on Fairies of Childhood. Usually, I find several disappointing images sprinkled among the good ones in compilations or calendars featuring fairies but each and every one in this book is truly magical, hauntingly fey.  I encourage you to get this as a treat for yourself or any other fairy person you love.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R3PIW3ARLKNDT8	0395905125	784309767	The Legend of the Lady Slipper	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ma-ki-sin-waa-big-waan, the Moccasin Flower	This is such a pretty book that tells the tale of the Ojibwe legend of the laddy slipper or moccasin flower. The illustrations are simple and colorful and greatly add to the folk atmosphere of the book. A little girl must go on a heroic journey through a freezing wintry night to find healing herbs when her whole village is stricken with terrible disease. She is encouraged along her route by the spirits of the stormy environment who speak to her in the Ojibwe tongue. This is an exciting and satisfying story and makes an excellent conversation starter to teach little ones about communing with the elements of Nature.	2001-11-27
US	41125812	R1NVA6B5X3Q783	1567183034	542172746	Trancing the Witch's Wheel: A Guide to Magickal Meditation	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Great for Priming the Pump of Creativity	This is a useful book in many different ways. It contains nicely written guided meditations for the elements, some dieties, and for each of the sabbats.  The meditations are filled with sensory stimulous and if read slowly and with feeling by some helpful volunteer will transport you to places that will help in your growth and understanding as a pagan.  I have used several of them with my coven and we have enjoyed them thoroughly.  Sometimes I have found them a bit too wordy, sometimes they're just not my style and I don't want to use them for guided meditations, BUT they are always very innovative and they help me out when I'm preparing to write ritual because they do have such an abundance of super ideas and accurately depict so many important pagan concepts. Our coven has many new witches and so I work doubly hard to make the rituals instructional and this book has been a huge help several times by priming the creative pump, so to speak, and getting my own magickal processes flowing.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R26I7Q90MKEVZ8	068814117X	3896064	The Magical Land of Noom (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This Reached My Little Brother When Nothing Else Could	Forty-five years ago they didn't know a lot about dyzlexia and other learning disabilties and my little first-grader brother really had problems learning to read. He even got held back in first grade which made him sad and he actually started to hate reading and books in general. The teachers and our parents treated him like he was dumb and school was turning in to a nightmare for him. Then in second grade he had an angel for a teacher. She was patient and she loved her students and she read THIS special story book to them. My little brother came home every night and at the dinner table he would tell us all about the adventures from the magical land of Noom which is &quot;moon&quot; spelled backward. His eyes sparkled and his speech became animated. He couldn't wait to get to school the next day to hear more. He did so much better that year and he kept trying with books because of that kind teacher and this enchanting story book. Johnny Gruelle, who created Raggedy Ann and Andy, knew how to reach children with his light-hearted, funny adventures and his utterly charming illustrations. Please share this magical book with children you love. I bought a brand new copy for my &quot;little&quot; brother even though he's all grown up now and tons more successful than I, the &quot;genious&quot; of the family.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	RVA1RHH8C9IFI	0671798936	639979882	The Hall of Beasts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Passing Magic Down from the Old to the Young	This beautifully illustrated story book tells what happens when a grandfather and young granddaughter take a walk to an enchanted place that grandpa remembers from his youth.  An old inn on the seashore is about to be torn down and Grandpa shares a legend about it with his granddaughter.  While they are present the legend's prophesy comes true right before their eyes!<br />This lovely story is filled with atmosphere and anticipation. It shows the loving process of passing along the secrets and subtle magic of life from one generation to another. It's short and sweet and satisfying and makes a comfy bedtime story for little ones to ponder as they drift off to dreamland.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R1XZDWUOE958OR	0439079462	963640737	The Hallo-Wiener	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Halloween Crack-up!	It doesn't matter how many children I read this to, it always cracks me up. I mean, when you read about a dachshund named Oscar, you know you're on a roll...hey, was that a pun? This story has lots of wordplay. It's a  Halloween tale, or is that tail, about a well-loved dachshund kid whose mother dresses him up in a costume that gets him ridiculed by the other dog kids.  His trick-or-treat adventures will have you howling with laughter and in the end everybody including poor Oscar likes his silly costume. The cartoon-like illustrations are clever and subtle so make sure you and your youngsters take time to enjoy them and please check out the classroom scene...it's a scream. This book is so much fun with its bright colors and zany text you just can't help but love it.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R2YVL90QEETAQP	0689801122	974756382	Sophie's Masterpiece	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Learn the Art of Being a Person from a Spider	This little book has it all, a sweet, sad tale, beautiful illustrations and a gentle moral lesson.  Sophie the Spider is a magical little person that lots of people are not too fond of, but she stays sweet and kind and true to her art. In the end her masterpiece comes directly from this tiny being's huge heart as she weaves a web of kindness to include others. I especially loved the whimsical, lacey webs that our little artist spins and I know you will, too.  This may encourage your little ones to look deeper before they judge others.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R2RRC7OPSB4KS1	0486284654	926588227	Dor's Illustrations for "Idylls of the King" (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Some of Arthurian Legend's Most Exquisite Illustrations	Gustave Dore first published these intricate and beautiful wood-engraved book illustrations for Alfred, Lord Tennyson's &quot;Idylls of the King&quot; in the 1860s.  Though many, many fabulous illustrations have been created for the legends of King Arthur and his Court these still remain among the finest.  This book contains 36 black and white plates, each 7 1/2&quot; x 10&quot; and thus nicely sized for optimal viewing of the exquisite detail. A corresponding excerpt from &quot;Idylls of the King&quot; is printed on the facing page of each plate. Dore captured the grandeur and opulence of courtly life, the mystery and magic of the legendary times of Arthur and Merlin, the medieval costumes, furnishings and architecture all with a brilliance that will transport you. Highly recommended!	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R2Q15UL8ZS1SQE	068814117X	3896064	The Magical Land of Noom (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	This Reached My Little Brother When Nothing Else Could	Forty-five years ago they didn't know a lot about dyzlexia and other learning disabilties and my little first-grader brother really had problems learning to read.  He even got held back in first grade which made him sad and he actually started to hate reading and books in general. The teachers and our parents treated him like he was dumb and school was turning in to a nightmare for him.  Then in second grade he had an angel for a teacher. She was patient and she loved her students and she read THIS special story book to them.  My little brother came home every night and at the dinner table he would tell us all about the adventures from the magical land of Noom which is &quot;moon&quot; spelled backward.  His eyes sparkled and his speech became animated.  He couldn't wait to get to school the next day to hear more.  He did so much better that year and he kept trying with books because of that kind teacher and this enchanting story book.  Johnny Gruelle, who created Raggedy Ann and Andy, knew how to reach children with his light-hearted, funny adventures and his utterly charming illustrations. Please share this magical book with children you love.  I bought a brand new copy for my &quot;little&quot; brother even though he's all grown up now and tons more successful than I am, and I'm the &quot;genious&quot; of the family.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R1B6ITGUXHS0E7	0141302860	102259720	The Secret of Platform 13	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I Love Ibbotson, But Choose  A Different One	This book has the wonderful, tongue-in-cheek humour characteristic of Eva Ibbotson,as well as the the lovable characters, magical adventures, and gentle moral message.  It's a nice story, but the &quot;surprise&quot; ending can be figured out about a quarter of the way into the book by anyone old enough to read it and then it's just going through the motions of reading it to get to the resolution.  Illustrations aren't a real big part of chapter books such as this, but these illustrations aren't very good and could just as well have been left out.  I hate to say anything negative about the work of Ibbotson because she is so good and has written such fun stories but this one is definitely not my first choice and I recommend searching out her other titles first.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	RGBI90YSLIBHL	1569246173	678908253	The Return of the Light: Twelve Tales from Around the World for the Winter Solstice	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Tales and Ritual Ideas to Enrich the Yuletide Season	I love this little volume of Winter Solstice tales from diverse cultures around the world. I believe that exploring the rich symbolism of the Yuletide season helps to make this joyful time of year come more fully to life. These clever stories are sure to further your understanding of the meanings of the holiday celebrations you have enjoyed all your life, adding new dimension to your future celebrations. They offer an opportunity to increase your sense of oneness with others who may worship and believe differently from yourself but who are none-the-less your sisters and brothers. There are tables at the back of this book which have short ritual ideas to use in your own celebrations and revels as well as some clever lyric revisions to well-known carols that put a Winter Solstice spin on them. I am a Wiccan Priestess and have used this book in crafting an annual public, ecumenical Yule ritual with great success. I recommend it for fireside reading as you wait up to greet the new born light.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R2SI34PHCYN9OA	0671748238	829795436	Story Cloud	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Enjoy the Cool Pictures But Make Up Your Own Story	A boy sees a mysterious airship in the clouds and is invited aboard by Puss in Boots and Peter Pan.  Along with other storybook characters they fly to the Story Cloud, a land where all the nice characters from make-believe live in &quot;reality.&quot;  The illustrations in this book are vivid, full of sparkle and big round full moons, seascapes and starry skies.  I loved them, but unfortunately, the story is  preachy, wordy new age posturing and if you want to share the delightful illustrations with a child, I suggest you both make up a story of your own to go with the pictures. Here's an example of the text. &quot;The fact that each and everyone's life is unique...means that each and everyone's life is identical.&quot; Here's another. &quot;You see, once we've found our heart and imagined ourselves...then the whole story plays like a big symphony, with everyone imagining everyone else...one great dream in which all the dream characters dream, too.&quot;  Yeah, right...	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R3S012YVTB9V0Y	0698115910	315066534	The Tomten	Books	5	118	121	N	N	How Comforting to Know the Tomten is On His Rounds	I have loved this book for over 40 years.  The copy I have was printed in Sweden a long time ago but I am very glad that this story is available as a nicely affordable paperback because it's such a sweet and comforting tale that lots of children will love. The beautiful illustrations capture perfectly the crisp, cold, snowy atmosphere of a still winter's night as the Tomten, a small spirit and guardian of a humble farm homestead goes about on his secret rounds doing his caretaker duties in his gentle, loving way. He whispers encouragment to the sleeping animals and children. He has seen many hundreds of winters and so he knows that &quot;winters come and winters go, summers come and summers go&quot; and the wheel of the year turns on and on. I encourage you to read this to children to help them feel safe and cozy and snug in their beds on a cold, dark winter's night...maybe try it this Winter Solstice and be sure to keep a look-out for tiny footprints in the snow around your home.	2001-11-26
US	41125812	R2ZSW9K7BQY3M1	0873587855	36651320	Clear Moon, Snow Soon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Modern Visit from St. Nicholas	In a crowded, Christmas-shopper filled bookstore, loaded with brimming displays of colorful books, this one just grabbed me as I walked past and turned me around and called on me to pick it up. It implored me with its dazzling clear blue dust jacket festooned with large sparkly letters in the title and a huge white full moon with Santa's sleigh just disappearing off the cover.  The illustrations in this book are lavish and colorful and filled with heart-warming sentimental details and the innocent joys of childhood wonder and expectation on the most magical night of Christmas Eve.  In a way this book is &quot;A Visit from St. Nicholas&quot; but in a different family's home in a different era. Like its predecessor it captures the excitement and the hustle-bustle of that &quot;jolly old elf&quot; busy at work bringing Christmas fun to children.  The text is simple and little ones will love it and so will the people who love them.  Merry Christmas!	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R1HGN2R8KYISZI	1571781056	265845943	The Woodcutter's Christmas	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Thoughts on Our Throw-away Society	This is a nice little gift book, only 61/2&quot; x 6 1/2&quot; and easily read in a single sitting.  It has lovely black and white photographs and a satisfying story which makes you think about the things you value and the things you throw away.  When a man who lives with the bounty of the earth and the turning of the seasons comes to realize that the Christmas trees he raises end up cast aside on curbs by the thousands after a very short &quot;life&quot; of use and compares that with the slow, process of growing and maturing that he has nurtured them through, his life changes. He also meets a special person when he's in Manhattan to sell the trees and she teaches him to look beyond the prescribed &quot;value&quot; that society places on the new and sparkly and successful, to look at the intrinsic value that life bestows and that is so often taken for granted.  Of course Brad Kessler says all this in a very lovely Vermont-woodsy-deep snowy sort of way.  This book doesn't bowl you over with emotion or revelation but it does make you think and feel and it takes you to a quiet place where you might have a chance to absorb and integrate this important message. I recommend it. A portion of the royalties from the sale of the book are donated to aid homeless people in New York City.	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R2FQQ0YULLOKI3	0395741327	36232774	Letters From Father Christmas	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Just Imagine a REPLY to the Letter You Send Santa!!	This is a really lovely little book with Professor Tolkien's characteristically magical water color and ink illustrations and his sweet-natured, witty commentaries about life at the North Pole.  Meet Father Christmas on his home turf and get to know his friend Great Polar Bear.  Through a series of letters that Father Christmas sent to the Tolkien children we are treated to an insider's look at all the magical preparations for Christmas as well as a glimpse of what life is like for Father Christmas during the rest of the year.  This book is a fun, hands on treat for the imagination with its realistic envelopes and letters that you can actually remove and read for yourself.  These enchanting letters were, of course, delivered by Elf Messenger and if you are lucky perhaps you will have a copy of this book delivered to you or someone you love.	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R1NLXDS7ATXPZ1	0395673461	146290400	The Sweetest Fig	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dentists and Dog Abusers, BEWARE!	This is great stuff...typical Chris Van Allsburg, filled with wonderful illustrations, sometimes surreal imagery, lots of subtle humour and something important for us to think about. The story shows what happens when one thoughtless, self-involved dentist experiences the &quot;what goes around, comes around&quot; syndrome. The last page causes that pleasurable sensation of the mental pause in the dark before the light-bulb pops on.	2001-11-25
US	41125812	RUEKPUYO1T5SN	1562824082	381376553	In This Night...	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Be Careful in Your Cabin...Guaranteed to Cause Spring Fever!	This book is the age-old story of winter's end and the glad return of spring. It takes place at that one magical turning-point that comes every year when suddenly you notice spring has crept in and claimed the earth again. Most of the action takes place after sundown of the last day of winter. During the quiet night that follows spring unfolds and we are involved in the lovely stirrings of a greening world and her wild creatures. The lyrical text entices our senses to rise and remember spring. We are treated to very, very beautiful illustrations just filled with subtle and exquisite light from sunset to sunrise, to starry full-moon skies and soft lamplit lanes in the park. This book is a jewel and it will either make you long for spring or tide you over until it returns.	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R3L0UTH8C3Y822	0395533082	385680398	Just a Dream	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Be Careful Which Dreams You Make Come True	Chris Van Allsburg's wonderful illustrations and gently chiding lesson about protecting the environment make an important addition to children's literature that is also very enjoyable to read since it is told with characteristic humor and warmth. What changes would you make in your lifestyle if you, like the story's young Walter could see into the future and discover the ramifications of your actions?  Walter is fortunate to travel into the future to receive his &quot;wake-up call&quot; while we must use our conscious minds to create a happy future one act at a time as we live in the now.  This book can be our dreamland trip into the future and help us make needed changes.	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R3SX7DR20WXTIX	0688152627	465978064	Jennifer's Rabbit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sailing the Sea of Dreams	In this little charmer the beautiful illustrations and the spritely lyrics that form the text share in the making of magic in equal proportion.  Go along with Jennifer as she and her rabbit, a turtle, a kangaroo and seventeen monkeys from the city zoo take a wonderful journey o'er land and sea along the mysterious coasts of dreamland. The jaunty rhythm of the lyrics  builds an atmosphere of adventure and fun while the pure poetry of the dreamy words sweeps us along with the action.  The pictures are filled with waves, sea spray, pearly foam, glittering stars, castles and sailing ships with red sails. Tucked under cozy covers with this lovely story dancing in their hearts, little sleepy-heads will be off to dreamland themselves in no time!  I love this book!	2001-11-25
US	41125812	R32FRJL1Y3MLLT	0375814442	874309655	Babar and Father Christmas (Babar Books (Random House))	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Father Christmas	This book was originally published in 1940 and the end notes tell us that it was the last one written by Jean de Brunhoff before his untimely death at age 37. The story and line drawings were finished but the illustrations still needed to be colored. Jean's brother took care of that with the help of Jean's son who was only 12 years old when his father died. I like the fact that Jean's son had a hand in the coloring of this wonderful story of a father's love and special efforts on behalf of his children at Christmastime.<br />This book has all the lively and humorous characteristics of the other Babar the Elephant stories, the brightly colored, warm and friendly drawings of our beloved elephant royalty, the antics and adventures of the elephants themselves and of course, our hero, King Babar once again, saving the day, in this book, a most important day, Christmas!<br />Arthur, Pom, Flora and Alexander, the royal elephant children , together with their monkey pal, Zephir, write Father Christmas a wish list letter and are disappointed when they don't get a reply. This ultimately leads to Babar's realization that the Elephants' Country needs to be included in Santa's regular route, so he goes to heroic lengths to make his childrens' wishes come true. Babar and Father Christmas become fast friends and Father Christmas even gets to take a much needed rest in the tropical climate of Babar's country. The way de Brunhoff has drawn Father Christmas is quirky and jolly and rather different from the image we have of him today but entirely captures the essence of this wonderful holiday icon.  If you have loved other Babar stories or if this is your first, you are sure to love it and make it a part of your Christmas tradition.	2001-11-24
US	41125812	RVLQD821SA0QS	1884807429	43936149	Christmas ABC: Story/Stickerbook (Children's Storybook & Sticker)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Old Fashioned Christmas	This is a nice big picture book that can be opened on Christmas Eve to become a cherished part of family tradition.  The talented Nancy and Roni Akmon have done it again with this compilation of nostalgic vintage illustrations from a bygone era. The text includes a Christmas Alphabet filled with homey scenes from great grandma's time, a story of Kriss Kringle and his Brownies with large, colorful illustrations of the inner world of Santa's workshop, and the famous &quot;A Visit from St. Nicholas.&quot;  The last is illustrated with truly gorgeous firelit scenes of yesterday you're sure to enjoy.  At the front of the book are two pages containing 32 reusable stickers with quaint holiday images that might also be used by your children to help you when you are sending out your Christmas cards.  A green satin ribbon decorates the front of the book adding to this book's overall abundance of charm.	2001-11-22
US	41125812	RX38T03CDOZ04	0152010815	616775228	Thimbleberry Stories (Thimbleberry Collection)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Thimble&quot;boring&quot; Stories	I rated this book with 4 stars because the illustrations are completely engaging, filled with rustic charm, cute little animals, thatched roof cottages, pretty flowers like foxgloves and climbing roses. Maggie Kneen brings the little critters who live along Thimbleberry Lane to life with vivid colors and nostalgic sensitivity.  That's certainly worth every point of the four stars! The reason I withheld the fifth star is that Nigel Chipmunk and his friends the owl, the hummingbird, the snake, the butterfly and the mudpuppy while adorable and friendly sorts are way too tame to attract any real interest from children (or adults who love childrens' literature.)  They help each other with tasks and have meals together and in general are very neighborly which is certainly a virtue, but unfortunately they are a bit boring.  A little mischief would go a long way on Thimbleberry Lane.	2001-11-22
US	41125812	RAYB5JKTRJMZT	0525461477	638316292	The Magic Hill	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Treasure from the Creator of Pooh	In 1925 A.A. Milne wrote this charming story and now Isabel Bodor Brown has added her utterly delightful illustrations and the people at Dutton Children's Books crafted all this magic into a darling of a book.  The book itself is a beauty, a compact little volume with lavender covers that are speckled with little yellow flowers and a spine stamped in gold.  The dust jacket is embossed with gold letters and features the sweet little Princess Daffodil framed in flowers with a beautiful pink dress and a smiling face.  Before we even get to page one we are captivated by this engaging child.  The story is at times gently humorous and at others it is wistful.<br />Daffodil's christening gift from her Fairy Godmother is the ability to grow flowers wherever she steps. The King doesn't think this is too practical and limits her access to the grounds. She wants to run and play freely like other children and in the end a happy solution is found. The illustrations are just brimming with delicate beauty and glorious colors. Daffodil is a little wonder and the fairies in the book are satisfyingly magical with gossamer wings and hair, while the Queen is a delicate beauty as a Queen should be. I love everything about this book.	2001-11-22
US	41125812	RIWNG3O8ZEGSG	082341020X	735769240	I-Know-Not-What, I-Know-Not-Where: A Russian Tale	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Read Aloud Treat from Russia	Eric A. Kimmel retells this classic Russian fairy tale with such lively language that you are immediately drawn in to the story of a noble archer and his adventures with a magical dove. He faces all kinds of perils including a jealous and treacherous czar. He is given some help along the way by Baba Yaga and Grandmother Frog. In the Land of Nine Times Nine he faces Kot Buyan, a huge and monstrous black cat. He solves difficult puzzles and fights impossible battles with his wits and the magical help of I-Know-Not-What. This rich story is told in chapter format and is accented with the wonderfully evocative illustrations of Robert Sauber. The colorful images are filled with folksy charm and the one of Baba Yaga in her house set on chicken feet captures this traditional Russian witch with delightful humor and a pleasant sense of thrill. This is a fun book to read aloud over a period of several nights, taking time to go over the costumes and details of the pictures and to talk about czars and enchantments and magical spells. It is a super book for cultivating a child's imagination.	2001-11-22
US	41125812	R2FL2NK16Z9PBT	0448403919	857898191	Nighty-Night (Poke and Look)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Little Man and the Moon	This is a terrific book for little people. It has nice chunky pages with wipe clean surfaces and it contains eleven descending graduated cut-outs of bright yellow crescent moons that figure creatively in the imagination of a small boy not so anxious to go nighty-night.  The simple drawings are cute and colorful and filled with fun adventures. The simple text is lively and leads a little one patiently to slumberland. It's a very dear book any child will love. Be advised that it does have a wire binding that I find to be its only fault and that a small one.	2001-11-22
US	41125812	RVMIDMGJV5OSJ	076361579X	776055036	The Book of Beasts	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Watch Out For That Dragon!	This book is a lot of fun, sparkling with the wit of E.Nesbit and filled with fantastic beasts that stir up quite a bit of trouble for a little boy whose great-great-great-great-great grandfather has died and left a kingdom to him. The original, unabridged version was written in 1900 and is included in a collection of stories called \\"The Book of Dragons\\". Inge Moore's new version of the story of the Book of Beasts is a wonderful opportunity for us to enjoy these fun-filled characters and the gentle humour of this great childrens' author.<br />Meet the Blue Bird of Paradise, the huge Red Dragon,the Manticora, and the beautiful Hippogriff and discover young King Lionel's thoughtful solutions to the problems they create when they spring to life straight off the pages of the magical Book of Beasts.<br />Moore's illustrations are colorful and comic and I enjoyed them a lot. I am so pleased that this captivating E. Nesbit tale is once again available to a wide readership. Don't miss it.	2001-11-21
US	41125812	RB6E73LN9U79	0689831714	664431495	Sea Story (Brambly Hedge)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ahoy, There, Me Miceys!	Jill Barklem's Brambly Hedge Mice are on a sea adventure this time. Traditonal British rural customs are depicted with inviting illustrations and you can enjoy a mouse eye's view of Dusty's  charming boat, The Periwinkle, as they sail off in search of salt.  When they meet up with their cousins, the Sea Mice, who moved from the Green Fields to the Dunes long ago, they enjoy a lively cultural exchange that you are sure to enjoy along with them. Treat yourself to a game of dominoes and a candied violet or two and immerse yourself in this enchanting little world. This book reminds me of both Beatrix Potter and &quot;The Wind in the Willows&quot; but I like the illustrations even more than Potter's.  There are such lovely and clever details rendered in soft pastels. Sail away with this fun book but don't miss out on the others by Ms. Barklem!	2001-11-21
US	41125812	R1OZWYIJRMTH8O	0786804580	65588631	Kittycat Lullaby	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Loving Lullaby for Little Mischief Makers	Anne Mortimer does it again with this dear little book filled with her beautiful cat illustrations. The star of this story is a tabby kitten with a white bib and four white socks.  We follow him through his busy day of mischief and exploration. The details and soft colors bring the kitten's world to life with such charm. Eileen Spinelli has written a text that can help to reasure any curious and mischievous little explorers that you may know that they are understood and cherished just as this lively kitten is.	2001-11-21
US	41125812	RKN0MARUM91N8	1841480487	750951166	The Lady of Ten Thousand Names: Goddess Stories from Many Cultures	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Goddess Is Alive, Magic Is Afoot	This beautiful book tells the folktales of ten Goddesses from different cultures around the world. The illustrations are truly lovely with colorful detailed costumes and borders on the pages filled with diverse flora from water lilies to hazel branches, to cherry blossoms. You will discover many different faces of the Goddess and young girls in particular will benefit from these positive role model examples.  The stories are purely good yarns which have stood the test of time and when combined with the artistry of Helen Cann they sparkle! Invite Isis, Kuan Yin, Cerridwen, Freya, White Buffalo Woman, Oshun, Ama-terasu, Persephone, Demeter, and Hekate in when you enjoy this bountiful treasure of stories and add balance and beauty to your life.	2001-11-20
US	41125812	RGQ3F98477U1Y	0374355258	398306379	9 Magic Wishes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	&quot;What Do You Wish For?&quot;	This book was written by Shirley Jackson whose spooky short story, &quot;The Lottery&quot;, you might have had to read in High School.Originally published in 1963, it's back now with beautiful new illustrations filled with color and dreams from the lively imagination of childhood.<br />What if a magician with stars on his hat suddenly came up to you and gave you 9 wishes?  Would you wish to live forever, or for world peace or for something much more wonderful like &quot;a squirrel holding a nut that opens and inside is a Christmas tree.&quot;  The wishes our lucky girl chooses are delightful and the illustrations of them are pure magic. The ending is the most beautiful part of a very special book.  Read this one and find out.	2001-11-20
US	41125812	R268K9VQ9QYA72	0525460802	541738301	The Lonely Scarecrow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Good Message, Good Book, GREAT Illustrations!	This book is just beautiful all the way around. It is the story of a scarecrow who is very lonely because the little country animals are too frightened by his raggedy clothes and his not-so-pretty appearance to get close to him. Eventually things change for the better and in the process we are treated to a wonderful lesson in tolerance and acceptance. We are also delighted by a natural atmosphere filled with charming animals and detailed illustrations of golden wheat fields dotted with red poppies. Pages trimmed with all manner of lovely flora from foxgloves and daffodils to snow drops and violets lift the heart. To further add to the beauty of this book, it is printed on heavy stock which will tolerate the handling of little learning people and the drawings are embossed to add texture and appeal to the total work. I love this book and I think you will, too.	2001-11-20
US	41125812	R30OGXS700I25V	0060287101	161245669	My Favorite Things	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Add This To Your List of Favorite Things	I discovered this book only a few days after watching a rerun of the wonderful movie &quot;The Sound of Music.&quot;  This book really enhances the beautiful lyrics of the song from that movie called &quot;My Favorite Things&quot; with lovely, heartfelt illustrations filled with nostalgia and the innocence of children.  The colors glow with soft light and scenes are either set in cozy, homey environments or in serene natural settings.  The lyrics and music are printed at the back of the book so you can play it on the piano for your children or just sing it to them as you go along.  My children are all grown up and no grandkids yet, so I know from experience that it's quite alright to sing it to yourself, too!  This is a delightful book.	2001-11-20
US	41125812	R23K2V70AE5ZFR	0525467130	125000701	Pumpkin Moon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Who Needs Text with Illustrations Like This?	Tim Preston wrote it but there are only 40 words of text (though they are 40 good words and lead the drama in the illustrations along nicely.)  The fantastic illustrations of Simon Bartram totally make this book happen!  If you love Halloween you will love this book. Large brilliant paintings featuring grinning jack-o-lanterns soaring through the dark Halloween skies along with witches and ghosts and tattered clouds create a shivering Halloween atmosphere in abundance!  We start out with kids carving pumpkins, kids trick-or-treating and then at the stroke of midnight things really begin to take off! Join in the fun! You'll love this one.	2001-11-20
US	41125812	R3UQA9W3IBMSUY	0679881700	501114540	Not Everyday an Aurora Borealis For Your Birthday: A Love Poem	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not Everyday a Book Like This	Right from the start this book is one of those that just feels good in the hand. A thin aesthetically pleasing little volume it has a red satin ribbon to mark your place and a brightly colored huge red heart invites you inside from the front cover. The text is a love poem by the great Carl Sandburg that has never before been published. The pictures are by Anita Lobel and they are filled with glad, warm-hearted images and colors.<br /> A young man goes to &quot;where the aurora borealises grow&quot; and brings home a beautiful speciman for his true love's birthday. The enchanting swirls of color actually do quite well at depicting the essence of the aurora borealis and its mysterious, magical light show. I know, because the northern lights were swirling in the skies over my home just a few nights ago and Lobel captured the feeling just perfectly.<br /> We follow the young man's struggle to find and bring the aurora borealis to his love and we believe that his feelings are so strong that he really can do anything for his love that he sets his heart on doing. He offers to bring her more aurora borealises or even a rainbow if she would like. This poetical man is letting her know that he will always work hard for her and struggle through life with her which is something a young woman may hope for, but this clever man has found a beautiful and romantic way to say it. His sensitivity to her need for beauty and abundance is the endearing point of the colorful promises he makes in this story.<br /> I treasure this book and I think it makes a wonderful gift for anyone you love, especially yourself.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	R2ZBNDBAUWTUEQ	0500017247	354202051	The White Goblin	Books	3	41	44	N	N	Not as Colorful as Its Predecessor	This sequel to The Rainbow Goblins has artwork nearly as beautiful but the story doesn't compare.  Children will probably not enjoy it because there is too much text in between illustrations and the subject matter is not very adventurous, rather on the dull side.  The book actually is very lovely with the characteristic sweeping vistas, brilliant colors and attention to detail, and delivers an important message about the selfish, destructive incursions people and industry are making into the natural world, it's just that the tone is somewhat pedantic. The goblins who live beneath the earth are too creepy for my taste but then again they ARE goblins!  I liked them in the vivid hues of the rainbow but in taupe and brown they look like larvae. The resolution of the story is a bit new agey which isn't necessarily a bad thing but again it may be too heavy for the enjoyment of a child.<br />  If you loved The Rainbow Goblins this book will treat you to more of the exquisite art work of Ul de Rico and you will not want to miss this book, but if you are choosing it for the purpose of sharing with a child, your money would be better spent elsewhere.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	RHF63J5823KHX	0517163624	906927223	Bird Children: The Little Playmates of the Flower Children	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Flower Children Works...Bird Children, Not So Well	Published in 1912 this quaint little book of nature sprites is one of four by Elizabeth Gordon and one of three illustrated by M.T. Ross. (The 4th one, &quot;Wild Flower Children: The Little Playmates of the Fairies&quot; was illustrated by Janet Laura Scott and is by far the best.) This book features charming couplets of rhyme about various birds, including many that we don't see quite so much of these days like the Golden Pheasant, Indigo Bunting, Kingbird or the Redstart.  The book is definitely worth seeing because it is so quaint and it once spoke to a sweet and innocent pre-Nintendo audience that probably adored the little bird beings it depicts.  I loved the whimsy and delicate details of Gordon's flower sprites but somehow the concept of a flower-human hybrid just doesn't transfer well to the bird kingdom. The cute little children's faces sticking out of a bird's body is just a little bit creepy. The Guinea Hens, for example have a normal bird's beak and black button eyes, but underneath there is a human face and sticking out from the underside of the wings are human arms.  It just doesn't work the way a Daisy bonnet does.  As a collector's book this may be desirable but if you must choose, I suggest you go with one of the three plant themes and leave the birds, well...for the birds.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	R13DVTDVLL32Q4	0517163608	57817032	Wild Flower Children	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Flower Children - Nature Sprites of a Bygone Day	Originally published in 1918, this beautiful picture book is filled with sweet little flower children that look a lot like fairies but of course they are only &quot;playmates of the fairies&quot; so they don't always have wings.  They are dressed in the most charming Victorian costumes including lace petticoats, bonnets, pinnafores, spats, and waistcoats.  Each one represents a wild flower, rendered in satisfying detail by this talented illustrator and accompanied by a nostalgic little poem. The flowers are identified by their Latin names as well as their often quaint and colorful folk names such as Frostweed, Virgin's Bower, Pearly Everlasting, Baby Blue Eyes and Gold Thread.<br />  I love this book and the other three by the same writer, Bird Children, Flower Children, and Mother Earth's Children. I'm so glad they are back in print and I know they will delight anyone who believes in fairies.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	RCNNP7NDYMD6C	1862052824	980655483	The Poppykettle Papers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dreams...The Contents of a Poppykettle	I love everything about this terrific little book.  It has an exciting adventure-filled plot, stout-hearted little heroes and scary adversaries.  It has a quest filled with peril and great hope. There are just barely possible tasks to be fulfilled some sorrow and some mystery and some happiness, too.  The illustrations are very lovely and filled with details that take you to the heart of this story of the last five survivors of an ancient Peruvian race of tiny folk who must journey to find a new home knowing full well that it is prophesied that only three will survive the voyage.  They set off across the vast sea, afloat in an old earthen poppykettle and you will eagerly rock with them upon the waves through many an astonishing adventure.  Children will love this and so will any adult with a gypsy soul and a child's heart.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	R2G5KE7T9WPHM2	0385325339	641240758	Laura Ingalls Wilder's Fairy Poems	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Little Fairies on the Prairie	Talk about lucky! Before she wrote her &quot;little house&quot; books,Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote some wonderful poems about fairies and we are fortunate that Stephen W. Hines compiled them and Richard Hull contributed colorful, detailed illustrations just full of whimsy, magic and fun.<br />  This charming litle volume consists of a short adaptation of an essay on fairies by Wilder, a short bio on Wilder by Hines and five beautifully illustrated fairy poems by Wilder.<br />  Written in 1915 these quaint fairy stories are sure to delight young and old alike as they show us the daily lives and activities of the wee folk.  You will see lady bugs and dragon flies, crickets and caterpillars, toads, birds, butterflies and flowers galore, but best of all you will see lots of fairies in flowery long skirts and pinafores sporting colorful wings and huge mischievous eyes.  The flowers are right out of a turn of the century cottage garden including poppies, four o'clocks, forget-me-nots, tiger lilies and pinks.<br />  I loved the book for its light-hearted, nostalgic look at Fairyland and for showing me another side to an already beloved writer.	2001-11-19
US	41125812	R21E589P5AB5P5	0307168484	830752514	Golden Books Treasury of Elves and Fairies	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Knowing Fairies Personally, This Book Rings True	This is called a treasury for good reason...wonderful stories and poems and the enchanting art of Garth Williams truly are treasures.  This book has sprinkled magic about for over 50 years.  My Nana gave this book to me when I was 7 years old and hungry for information and pictures of my beloved fairies. So many books miss the mark when they depict the fairies but in this one they must have willingly posed because they knew the artist was one of the Good Folk himself! Mr. Williams is also a kissin' cousin to mermaids, witches, pixies, and leprechauns and happily introduces you to the family.  This book disappeared for many years and is around now so I strongly suggest you buy a copy while you can. It's a rare and magical treat.	2001-11-18
US	41125812	RBUFUACZFARSE	0811828212	533284033	Deck the Hall: A Traditional Carol	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Yuletide Family Fun - A Cherished Tradition	This beautiful little book should be a part of every child's Yuletide celebration.  The text consists of the words to the Old Welsh traditional carol, &quot;Deck the Hall&quot; and as such comes equipped with plenty of merry holiday ambiance and the illustrations of Sylvia Long make the carol into a magical Yuletide treasure. A loving family of rabbits celebrates the season together with Mama, Papa and their little son hanging the yew garlands, the colored lights,and ornaments (including the special carrot ornament of course!) and getting all dressed up in their gay apparel for a worship service complete with carolling.  They cuddle together before the blazing Yule fire, enjoy hot steaming mugs of hot cocoa and have fun cutting out cookies together. The little boy gets flour on the red flannel sleeves of his Dr. Dentons as he carefully works the star cookie cutter and Mama looks on encouragingly. The family strings popcorn, cranberries and nuts to trim the pine tree outdoors for the birds and tiny wreaths of suet and seeds are tied on with crimson ribbons. Bundled up in their soft warm jammies the family reads a Yuletide story before Mama and Papa tuck their little son into bed beneath a charming patchwork quilt. They stand snuggled together in the doorway, looking lovingly at their beautiful sleeping boy. Excitment abounds as the presents are opened in the morning and a fun-filled day of ice-skating, sledding and making snow angels begins. Fa-la-la-la-la-la-la-la-la!<br />I really love this little jewel of a book and I think you will, too.	2001-11-18
US	41125812	R3FV870FH3DCS4	0684844583	665140511	Certain Poor Shepherds	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Unique and Poignant Christmas Tale	This book is a little treasure and one of my favorites.  It's the story of the night of Christ's birth as perceived by the animals.  It is told with great sensitivity by reknowned animal lover Elizabeth Marshall Thomas and as such it is filled with eye-opening empathy and poignant beauty. It has an interesting take on angels as seen by animals, showing them to be very non-human and free of human stereotypes. Perhaps our perceptions of ourselves do color our perceptions of angels as well. It taught me a lot about the way animals might perceive the strange, crude doings of humans and helped me view my relationships with animals with more thoughtfulness. In that sense alone, it is a worthy addition to any library and especially to a holiday collection. I love this book very much. The hard cover is out of print but is pleasingly compact and makes a wonderful heirloom that is worth searching for. This paperback edition is nicely affordable and will make a perfect gift for anyone who loves and lives with animals.	2001-11-18
US	41125812	R3B0VDLM22V3T9	0836267621	371186432	Believe: A Christmas Treasury	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Treasury Indeed!	This book's gilt-edged pages, charming colorful illustrations and classic Christmas treats including among many, O. Henry's &quot;Gift of the Magi&quot; and the nostalgic holiday song, &quot;Over the River and Through the Woods&quot; make for merry family holiday pleasure. Splendid! This book is called a treasury for good reason.	2001-11-18
US	41125812	R3PZP5GB1KSKGZ	0066238277	295726898	Santa's Snow Cat	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Christmas Gift - A New York Keepsake	This beautiful book feature's Santa's favorite kitty, Snow Cat, who has snowy white fur and jade green eyes. She is a little trickster and likes to stow away with Santa by snuggling down in his deep pockets. However, on Christmas Eve when she is discovered by Santa, she accidentally falls out of the sleigh and lands somewhere in New York City.  Unhurt, Snow Cat takes a tour of the city, encountering lots of look-alike Santas but not the real one until she is eventually located by Santa and taken safely home.  The story is told with lyrical descriptions and has colorful, evocative illustrations rich in detail that include major New York City landmarks such as Radio City Music Hall, the Empire State Building, and the twin towers of the recently destroyed World Trade Center, among others.<br />  This is a really wonderful little book and if careful explanations are shared with children who may be confused to see a picture of Santa's sleigh perched atop one of the WTC towers, I think it makes not only a lovely Christmas story to be treasured but also a wonderful keep-sake.	2001-11-17
US	41125812	R32N01XKXXN2SQ	0689839324	549303296	The Night Before Christmas	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A Happy Christmas to All	This beautiful book was in my family as a hard cover edition for many years and was a Christmas Eve tradition for my four sons when they were growing up. It's poor battered body disappeared some time after the last of my little ones went off into the adult world. I am so delighted to see it back again, though this time as a nicely affordable soft cover. Clement C. Moore's enchanting story poem already provides an atmosphere filled with warmth and joyful expectation and with the addition of Tasha Tudor's quaint, nostalgic water-colors from an antique New England the Christmas magic is complete!<br />  The winter landscapes fill our senses and Tasha's own gray tabby cat and Welsh Corgi welcome us into this charming world.<br />  Tasha's Santa that you will meet in this book has been portrayed as the poem describes him...a right jolly old elf. He's not that much larger than the corgi and his team really consists of eight &quot;tiny&quot; reindeer.  His pointy ears and his Eskimo mukluks add to the delightful ambiance of the book. He dances with the toys and with the happy animals and we can truly believe it will be a happy Christmas for all.<br />  I hope this book becomes a Christmas Eve tradition for many, many more families.	2001-11-17
