US	41132002	R2BXKK7VX5EQZV	0345418778	441859006	Mostly Harmless (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not bad, but not a great end for a great series	I just re-read this after re-reading the other books in the series, and I really didn't remember much about it from the first time.  At times, I wasn't sure I even had read it before.  I think that's because there just isn't anything outstanding aobut this book.<br /><br />The plot isn't too well developed, it's hard to really pinpoint exactly what the story is about, and by the time you do, the book comes to an abrupt end, much like So Long and Thanks for all the Fish.  But it still has (most of) the same great characters from the previous books, and still has some of the great witty dialogue.<br /><br />Overall, this book wasn't all that great, but if you've read the rest of the series, it's worth reading.  Just don't expect the same quality as the first three books.	2005-10-05
US	41132002	R21FIFI618NS1M	0345391837	458212829	So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Funny, but not much of a plot	I didn't remember much about this book from the first time that I read it several years ago, which made me think that I didn't really like it that much.  But after re-reading it, I realize that I didn't remember much becuase there wasn't much to it. <br /> <br />What is there is good and funny, and has some interesting characters, like the Rain God, and the lady selling raffle tickets, but overall, the story just seemed too short and ended very abruptly just after it had seemed to get started. <br /> <br />If you've read the other books, you'll probably want to read this one as well, but don't expect the same kind of story this time.	2005-09-13
US	41132002	R3GMOTHFDDWV9M	0446610593	968422356	Horizon Storms: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #3	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good saga continues	I took a little break between reading the first two books of this series and reading this one, so I was anxious to get back to it and find out how things were progressing. <br /> <br />The first book started a little slow while setting everything up, but the second book really had a lot of action, and I expected that to continue in this one.  While it was still very good, the action didn't come like I had expected.  This one seems to be setting the table again, and this is quickly becoming a very complex plot.  This didn't bother me in this book, as there was still enough that kept the story going, but I can see it becoming a problem in future books if the pace doesn't pick up again. <br /> <br />If you've read the first two books in the series, you'll want to read this one as well, just don't expect anything to be resolved in it.	2005-08-23
US	41132002	R1DPGQIE4KHJKF	0345391829	458212829	Life, the Universe and Everything (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good, but not as good as the previous books in the series	I just reread this after rereading the other two books in the series.  This was still very good, but I didn't like it quite as much as the first two books.  I thought it dragged in places despite being a short book, and I wasn't terribly satisfied with the ending. <br /> <br />However, it's still very good, and obviously a must read if you already read the previous books.	2005-08-01
US	41132002	R1EJNJT4JGE97V	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just a fun book	I recently re-read The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy to make sure I remembered everything before seeing the movie, so I continued re-reading the series with this book. <br /> <br />It just keeps going where the last book left off, with the same great characters and crazy plotlines.   It's just a fun quick great book. <br /> <br />If you read the first book and liked it, you probably don't need me to tell you that you should also read this one.  If you didn't like the first one, you're not going to like this one any better.  And if you haven't read the first one, then go read it already.	2005-07-18
US	41132002	R1QR4K87WZ0NT6	0446610585	603165414	A Forest of Stars: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #2	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good epic saga	After reading the first book in this series, the main problem I had with it was that it started so slow.  I was optimistic that this book would be better because it didn't have to introduce everything that the first book did.  Fortunately, that did seem to be the case.    This book had a lot more action than the first.  It did still drag in a few places, but overall, it kept moving right from the start.  It had the same good characters and settings that were set up in the first book, and it introduces some new things as well.  About the biggest problem I had with this book is that it seems that the scope of the series is so large that it will be hard to satisfactorily reslove.  But I'll reserve judgement on that until I see how it is done.    If you read the first book in this series, you'll definitely want to continue with this one.  Also, this has left me even more eager to get the next book.	2005-07-11
US	41132002	R24D5VB45F4VJJ	0446610577	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A slow start but worth it.	I had never read anything by Andeson before, but when I read the summary on this book, it reminded me a little of the last Peter Hamilton book I read, Pandora's Star, which was great, so I thought I'd give this a try. <br /> <br />The book starts really slowly, as it introduces all the characters and sets up all the various settings involved in the story.  All of this is interesting, but I wish there had been something more captivating in this section of the book.  However, since this does seem to be a pretty epic story, it wasn't unexpected that it take some time to set things up, and about halfway through the book when the action really gets started, the pace picks up significantly. <br /> <br />I think Anderson does a great job of creating new worlds and cultures and interesting characters to live in them, and the overall plot is very interesting and well developed.  There are some things that I have some questions about that don't seem to make too much sense, but I can reserve judgement on most of them until finishing the series, as they may be explained later. <br /> <br />Overall, this was a good introduction to what I hope is a good series.  If you're a fan of epic science fiction, this is probably worth reading.	2005-06-28
US	41132002	R3Q1MR49S8QJKY	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the few books you just have to read.	I wanted to re-read this before the movie comes out, so I picked it up at the library.  I thought I had forgotten a lot of it, since it's been several years since I read it.  But, as I read it again, I realized how familiar everything was and I realized that this is one of those books you just don't forget. <br /> <br />Anyway, reading it again, I found all the same things that I remembered.  A cast of improbable, but great characters, a wonderfully epic plot somehow crammed into a very short book, and lots of laughs along the way.  I'll be re-reading the other books in the series shortly, and I look forward to that even more after reading this one again. <br /> <br />If you haven't read this, you really should, at least so you will know why people answer 42 to any number of questions that come up.  And if you have read it, you probably don't need me to tell you that you should read it again.	2005-04-24
US	41132002	R2RE92U4V34ZY7	0312993536	221999323	Sons of Fortune	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Better than I expected, but unrealistic.	I picked this up when I couldn't find anything else I'd rather read that I hadn't read already after finishing my last book.  So, I wasn't expecting much.  Having said that it was pretty good.  But a lot of it just seemed far too unrealistic. <br /> <br />First, the characters were completely unbelievable.  Not that they were poorly developed, or anything like that, they were just too perfect.  The two main characters, especially.  They simply never made any mistakes.  They were very likeable and well written, just not at all plausible in their perfection.  By the time I was halfway through the book, I fully expected them to run against each other for President, only to find that they had tied, and deciding that they would govern jointly.  Well, that didn't happen, but I wasn't far off. <br /> <br />Also, I thought the way the perfect characters reacted to two particularly important events in the story just didn't feel realistic at all.  I would say more, but can't really without giving anything away. <br /> <br />Having expressed those pretty significant reservations with the plausibility of the book, it was pretty good otherwise. The characters despite their apparent perfection were well developed and interesting, and the plot was pretty compelling. <br /> <br />I'm not really sure if I'd recommend this to someone with somany other great books out there, but if you like Jeffery Archer already, or you don't mind the unrealistic characters, then you might just like it.	2005-04-24
US	41132002	RJ3TYG5EOQREH	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A refreshing change from the crap I've been reading lately	I've seen Stephenson's Crytonomicon around, and thought it looked interesting, but didn't want to start anything that big without knowing if the guy could even write or not.  My brother had this, so I borrowed it, and was surprised by how much I liked it. <br /> <br />I always like it when a writer can craft a believable world with new cultures and technology that are interesting, and Stephenson does this very well in Snow Crash.  The only proble I had with the setting is that it seems to close to the present for everything to have changed as much as it had in the story, even considering it was written in the early 90s. <br /> <br />The characters were really well developed with a lot of interesting relationships tying them all together.  And the story itself was interesting with several different aspects that were woven together pretty well.  The one thing about the story that bothered me was that I didn't think that simply being able to understand binary would enable anyone to gain any meaning from a picture representing something in binary as the story suggests.  Actually, I'm not sure how many programmers today ever work with anything in binary, anyway, much less in the future.  But that was not a difficult thing to dismiss and just accept in the context of the story. <br /> <br />I'll probably give Cryptonomicon a shot now, and I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a little comedic, sci-fi, cyberpunk.	2005-04-07
US	41132002	R3NSBO4M0U9V1O	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	3	2	3	N	N	All that fuss, over what?	This book seemed to want to be like The DaVinci Code with  mysteries hidden that would reveal great secrets if only they could be figured out.  However it lacks the excitement of that book, and also the subject seems a bit too obscure to cause all the drama that took place in the plot, anyway. <br /> <br />The characters are pretty good, and the story isn't too bad, but it's just hard to believe that so much would go on surrounding such an obscure uninteresting (to most people) subject.  Also, the authors jump around too much with the timeline and at some points it isn't clear if you are reading past or present events in the story.  It also seems like the same information is presented over and over again as Tom looks back on his father's struggles. <br /> <br />Not a bad book, but not one I would recommend very highly.	2005-03-22
US	41132002	R3Q8ZNJ05K50H0	0451459334	543198748	Conquistador	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Ok story, but way too         S          L       O        W	I read the first two books of the Islands in the Sea of Time series.  About halfway through the second one, it just got too boring for me.  The original idea was very good, but there just wasn't much of interest beyond that.  Conquistador shares a similar feel. <br /> <br />The story wasn't bad and the characters were OK, but the dialog was bad and the book was just way longer than it should have been, packed with slow boring parts with a little action sprinkled in.  I also felt like the author was trying to force in a lot of little trivia all along the way, and a lot of the time it seemed forced.  Add to this an anticlimactic ending and it just wasn't as good as I had hoped. <br /> <br />I wouldn't recommend this book.  Stirling seems to have good ideas, but doesn't deliver much with them.	2005-02-19
US	41132002	R1LGHD9AGFTFKA	0765342286	230034308	Jumper: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Much better than I expected	I found this on my brother's bookshelf, and I'd never heard of it or the author despite it being several years old, so I didn't expect it would be that great, but my brother recommended it so I gave it a try. <br /> <br />I was glad that I did.  This was a very interesting story, with solid interesting likeable characters, and a lot of depth, which is something that has been lacking in most of what I've read lately.  I read this pretty quickly, because it kept me interested, wanting to find out what would happen next. <br /> <br />This wasn't a great book, but it was a good story that was well written, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good story that is easy to get through.	2004-12-31
US	41132002	R2DD8PU5F4JL4V	0671578197	344226228	The Multiplex Man	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Started out ok, but devolved into a worthless piece of crap.	When starting this book, I thought the premise looked pretty interesting and I had read other things by Hogan, so I thought it might be pretty good. <br /> <br />It started out a little slow, but once it got going, it seemed like it was going to be ok.  Several times there were plot developments that made me think, this is really going to pick up now, but it never really did.  Fairly early on in the story, I thought of something that I thought would have been an interesting twist for the end, but later events led me to discard it as a possibility.  However, when I got to the end, what I had thought of did turn out to be the twist.  Even though events in the story made it difficult.  Which was made worse by an entire section of the book that tried to explain how the events unfolded without offering anything of value to the story.  Add to this a protagonist who was completely discarded halfway through the story, an abrupt unsatisfying ending, and you get a pretty worthless book. <br /> <br />I wouldn't recommend this book.  If you want to read something by Hogan, try Inherit the Stars instead.	2004-12-17
US	41132002	RIOUFTAVB1UYY	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Disturbing...	Somehow I missed reading this in school, but always heard good things about it, so when I saw it lying around, I decided I should read it.  I thought that the concepts in the book would be pretty interesting, but I didn't expect as much from the plot and characters.<br /><br />The world created by Orwell is very disturbing.  The way the past is changed is especially frightening, along with the idea that thoughts can be changed by limiting the vocabulary needed to express them.  I also thought the character of Winston Smith was very well written along with the plot as he becomes a thought criminal.<br /><br />The only thing I didn't like about the book was that it seemed like the Party would have an impossible job  trying to keep up with the sheer volume of things that would constantly need to be changed in order to maintain whatever \\"reality\\" is current.  Also, I couldn't see why anyone would really want to be a member of the Outer Party as opposed to one of the proles, who seemed to have a little more freedom.  Finally, I never really understood the \\"why\\" of the Party, even when it was explained in the story, it didn't seem very appealing to me, at least not enough that everyone would be able to be brainwashed into maintaining it.  However, I suppose if crimestop and doublethink and other concepts described in the book actually worked, then no one may have thought about these things enough to care.<br /><br />Overall, this is an excellent book that really makes you think about some pretty scary things.  I definitely think this is a book worth reading.	2004-10-20
US	41132002	RR85O9XVMY059	0333900693	944020958	Misspent Youth	Books	3	36	38	N	N	Ok, but not what I've come to expect from Hamilton	Peter Hamilton is probably my favorite author for his Night's Dawn Trilogy, Fallen Dragon, and the recent Pandora's Star, so I had high hopes for this book as well.  While this book isn't bad, it just doesn't live up to the standard set in Hamilton's other books. <br /> <br />First of all, this book is much more driven by the characters than the story or the setting, which is somewhat different than the other books I mentioned where Hamilton does a great job of creating a complicated believable setting for the stories to take place.  This story is set much closer to the present, so he does not have as much leeway to mold the setting which is what he really seems to excel at.  Despite this, however, I really thought that it would be interesting to see one of the technologies Hamilton uses so well to shape his stories in its infant stages instead of when it is already perfected and widespread.  And that part of the story was pretty good.  But the characters, while likeable and interesting, just weren't all that believable, which is more important in this story as it is driven mainly by the characters. <br /> <br />The first part of the story is spent painting Jeff as one kind of person, then throughout the story we see that he isn't that at all, but is something much different than we have been led to believe, and that also is pretty well done.  The problem comes in towards the end of the story when we're again led to believe that he is the kind of person that we started with, despite the bulk of the story which assures us that he isn't.  It just isn't very well done. <br /> <br />If you're a fan of Hamilton, this is probably worth reading, but just don't expect the same quality, or the same epic feel of some of his other work.	2004-09-27
US	41132002	R1LC9207SPBQOM	0553292218	774278319	Harvest, The	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Wilson does a good job with this story.	I've read a few other books by Wilson, and I liked them all, so when I saw this one, I was hoping this would be good too.  I was not disappointed.  Wilson does a good job of telling a difficult story. <br /> <br />The most impressive thing about this story, I think, is that it doesn't really make a lot of judgements.  The story focuses on people who decline the Travellers offer of immortality, but it doesn't give the impression that they are any better than those who accepted the offer.  It also doesn't fall into the boring cliche of the benevolent aliens who save us from ourselves.  It does a good job of presenting both sides without making any assumptions about which is right or wrong, or whether either is.  This makes for a much more enjoyable story, and I think that is what I like most about Wilson's books overall, is his ability to stay away from tired cliches or predictable endings. <br /> <br />The only thing that really bothered me about this story was the way the people ascended to the \\"Greater World\\"  leaving only their skins behind.  I wondered why only their skins would be left behind, I didn't get the impression that they needed a physical body at all in the Greater World, so why wouldn't the whole thing be left behind?  It seems that t was just the skin only for purposes of dramatic effect for the story, which I thought was a little lazy.  But that was a fairly minor point, overall, it's a good story, with good characters that you could really feel for having to make tough decisions in an incomprehensible situation. <br /> <br />I will continue to look for more by Wilson, as he is becoming one of my favorite authors, and this book is definitely worth reading if you can find it.	2004-09-20
US	41132002	R2VDFYG0EB4OU6	0312859376	392405226	The Black Sun	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Unbelievable premise followed by a pretty boring story	I found this book in my closet when I didn't have anything else to read at the moment.  I should have left it there.  It looks like an interesting story of interstellar colonization and adventure on a new world.  However, it fails pretty miserably for several reasons. <br /> <br />First, the idea that people are going to sign up in droves to get on these seed ships that \\"may\\" take them somewhere if they're very lucky just wasn't at all believable.  Then, if you try to look past that, the author makes it impossible by making the characters seem as if they didn't know what they were getting into.  Then, once they got there, the story focuses on silly conflicts between the colonists and a vague alien presence on the world that is never explained very well.  This story just never went anywhere.  The most interesting part was a dream about the aliens that gave us the most background about them, but it wasn't enough.  There was not enough attention paid to details, or enough tension in the plot to make the story at all worthwhile.  The characters also weren't anyone you could get very interested in.  They were poorly developed and their interactions didn't seem at all realistic. <br /> <br />I wouldn't recommend this book, and unless I see something that looks really good, I'll probably avoid anything by Williamson in the future.	2004-09-13
US	41132002	R11W0JREOBFNT9	0553574973	535592231	The Depths of Time (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Ok story overshadowed by poor implementation of time travel	I had never read anything by Allen, but I thought this looked like an interesting story.  The idea of being stranded in the future looked pretty intruiging.  Unfortuantely, Allen does such an incredibly bad job of setting up how the timeshafts work and how they are guarded by the chronological patrol that it really spoils the rest of the story which is actually not too bad.    First, the timeshafts are explained both in the diagram at the front of the book, and also, by the story as being holes in time only, not in time and space, so where you enter the timeshaft is the same place you exit it.  However, if this is the case, then the concept of uptime and downtime ends of the timeshaft that is relayed in the story doesn't make sense.  Because the uptime end of a 100 year timeshaft from the year 4900 to 5000 would also be the dowtime end of the timeshaft from 5000 to 5100.  Also, since the timeshafts would have to have that dual purpose, how do you indicate whether you are going uptime or downtime when entering the timeshaft?  This is never explained, though it easily could have been by using different codes, or a different  nexus.  Finally, the CP ships are very clearly thought of as either uptime or downtime ships, when this obviously cannot be the case, the ships would need to serve a dual role, which is never mentioned and is actually contradicted by the way the story presents them.    Second, the story makes it clear that the timeshafts are built far from any developed system, requiring them to travel at least half the duration of the timeshaft in order to reach the timeshaft to ensure that a ship cannot arrive at its destination before it left.  But if this is the case, then how do the CP ships return to \\"their\\" present?  Presumably, they would need to go through the timeshaft before returning home, and the uptime ship would need to go through twice, but if this is the case or how it is accomplished is never mentioned.  Also, with this delay because of travel time, how long do these ships stay at their station?  No matter how you try to do it, it causes problems, either with the ships leaving their station or the relief ships getting there.  But Allen never even tries to explain it, so we just don't know.  Also, when the Upholder send word of the attack, how can the Standfast possibly be relieved so quickly, with the travel time being so great?  It doesn't make any sense.    Finally, what I think is the biggest problem with how the time travel rules are implemented, is that the author makes it very clear that he doesn't understand them himself.  Even if he does a poor job of it, it would be more excusable if he was consistent, but he is not.  One example of this is when a ship has been stranded in the future, and the captain is discussing his options expresses that the CP would blow up his ship if he tried to enter the uptime end of a timeshaft to go downtime.  Well, why would they do that, since that is exactly what the timeshafts are for?  Actually, what really prevents them from returning to their own time is the objective time it would take to travel back to the timeshaft and then back to their destination.  Also, the story mentions the Upholder crew being stranded 80 years in the future, but if they are guarding an 80 year time shaft, then they should actually be stranded at least 160 years in the future, since it would take them at least 40 years to travel to the timeshaft and 40 years to return from the time shaft in addition to the 80 years they gained by going through it.  The fact that the author doesn't understand his own rules is very disappointing.    Despite the poor time travel setup, I was able to enjoy a lot of this book, the opening battle is pretty good.  But these problems really do overshadow what could be a pretty good story.  There are also other problems later in the story that are pretty annoying, but they pale in comparison to the time travel issues.  One, in particular that bothered me was the fact that early on in the story they show many different ways that identity can be confirmed before accepting important commands, from codes to retina scans to fingerprints to DNA, but later for convenience, the story suggests that an entire ship can be reprogrammed using a simple numeric code.    I will probably look for more books by Allen that do not have the time travel aspect, because I'm sure I will like them much better.  But I don't think I will continue with this series because of the terrible job that was done with the time travel.	2004-08-23
US	41132002	R10LHRJDK7N38G	0765305038	845349303	Newton's Wake: A Space Opera	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Disappointing	After reading Sky Road, by MacLeod, and not liking it, I hadn't planned on reading anything else by him.  However, after finding out the Sky Road was part of a series and I hadn't read the previous books, I decided to try again. <br /> <br />I had just finished Peter Hamilton's Pandora's Star, which I really liked and saw some similar things in this book, with the wormholes and extended life, so I was hoping that I would enjoy it.  MacLeod does a very good job with the setting and the backstory with the Hard Rapture, and I thought he had a pretty interesting cast of characters.  However, the story that he tells in the interesting setting that he created is very mediocre, dwindling into nonesense by the end.  And he fails to develop any of the characters to any reasonable extent. <br /> <br />I had planned on reading more of MacLeod after this, but now, I don't think I'll bother.	2004-08-09
US	41132002	R2E578RUMYW1D	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	2	4	11	N	N	I know it's a classic, but I was not impressed.	Haing missed this book in school, somehow, I've always meant to read it since I keep hearing great things about it.  I don't know if my expectations were too high or I'm just missing something that everyone else sees, but I didn't like it.    The idea that political correctness grows into something so ridiculous that not only are books burned, but the houses that they occupy are burned also was just impossible for me to swallow.  Add to that only a single character that was likeable at all (and she was killed off pretty early), then a pretty boring story to go along with it, and the only reason I was able to finish it was because it was so short.    I don't see any reason why anyone would want to read this book, but I'm clearly in the minority on this one, so maybe you'll like it better than I did.	2004-08-04
US	41132002	R3DQC78ABR1BG7	0345461622	197047472	Pandora's Star	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Peter Hamilton continues to impress	After reading Hamilton's Night's Dawn Trilogy and Fallen Dragon, he was quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.  So, when I started Pandora's Star, I had very high expectations.  I was not disappointed.    Like he did in The Night's Dawn Trilogy and Fallen Dragon, Hamilton creates a complex future universe with a unique culture and technology.  I think this is where he really excels.  I also liked that The Commonwealth was entirely different than the settings of his other books that I had read, so he is able to create an entirely new culture without borrowing from what he had done before.    In this well crafted setting, Hamilton manages to tell a very interesting complex story involving many different plotlines and characters.  The story starts off a bit slow, and really drags at a couple of points, but I suppose that should be expected in any book this size with so much going on.  And about halfway through the story, when the action really begins, the pace picks up considerably.    About the only complaints I have with this book are that it leaves off on a cliffhanger ending, and that it looks like it will only be a two book series, rather than a trilogy.  I would definitely recommend this to science fiction fans, but you may want to hold off reading it until the next book is released.	2004-08-01
US	41132002	R1NO1N1Z0HKVQF	0380814889	19223003	Roma Eterna	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Ok, but not at all what I was expecting.	When I saw this book at the library and read the synopsis on the book jacket, I thought it looked like a really interesting concept.  I was expecting a story set roughly in the present in a vast all-encompassing Roman Empire that never fell.  I wanted to see the differences of culture an technology and how they would be different in modern life if they had evolved out of such a mighty empire.  However, what I got instead were several short stories set in a constantly decaying, but never quite falling, Roman Empire.<br />Despite being a little disappointed that this was a book of short stories, instead of what I had expected, I still thought it might be interesting to see some of the things that I mentioned above, as the Empire evolves.  However, while a couple of the stories were pretty good, most were just ok, and a couple (including the last) were terrible.  Instead of telling stories about the greatness of the Empire and how it expands throughout the years, and the technology that comes along with it, the stories are more about how the Empire just barely hangs on (or doesn't, temporarily) despite many factors that threaten it.  And the technology that I thought would be particulary interesting was barely mentioned at all.  There are passing mentions of a printing press and picture postcards, and some talk of building an elevator that is never realized, but no discussion of how technological advancements were made in this alternate version of history.  I was also particularly disappointed by the fact that the technology that was mentioned in the stories pretty much corresponded to when those things came about in actual history.  But I would have thought, that if the Roman Empire never fell, technology would have progressed at a slightly faster, if not much faster rate, especially considering how advanced the Romans seemed to be in such things.  Also without the Dark Ages that followed the Empire's collapse, I would think things would have progressed further in that time.  Finally, the most annoying thing about the book was that the last story did not seem to belong at all.  It was not a story about the Empire, aside from being set in it, and was completely different from all the others in the book.  It was also one of the shortest and probably the worst of the stories in the book.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book, although if you know what to expect going into it, you may enjoy it more then I did.	2004-06-28
US	41132002	RCUJEHZ61KXOT	0312876904	943424422	Hybrids (Neanderthal Parallax)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Better than Humans, but that's not saying much	After reading Homonids, the first book in this series, I had high hopes for the series.  Because, despite what I thought was too much focus in that book on Mary Vaughn's personal problems, I still really enjoyed the book, and thought the premise was very interesting.  However, in the second book, Humans, Sawyer takes the story completely in the wrong direction, focusing almost entirely on the relationship between Mary Vaughn and Ponter Boddit, and ignoring the more interesting story of the comparison and contrast between the two different Earths.<br />While this book was better than Humans, with a little more focus outside of their relationship, it still is way too heavily skewed towards that storyline.  While that mediocre story plays out in detail in each chapter, a much more intresting story goes almost undeveloped in little snippets at the beginning of each chapter.  I also found myself wondering how the Neanderthal technology would have managed to progress like it had without a population anywhere near that of the Gliksins.  It seems that with the limited population and without so much war to drive technology, they would have moved much slower.<br />I will continue to look for more from Sawyer in the future, but nothing else from this series.    I think Sawyer could have done a much better job with this story, but he just went down the wrong path.  If you read the other two books in the series, you will want to read this one as well, but don't expect anything great.	2004-06-14
US	41132002	R1EJNGI02LE3Q7	0743454146	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Very well done	I had read and enjoyed several other book by Iles before this one, so I expected it to be good, however, I wasn't sure how well he would do with the subject matter which seemed quite a bit different from his previous novels.  The story had the fast-paced feel of a thriller, with the in-depth subject matter of a good science fiction sotry, and I thought Iles handled this very well.<br />I was most impressed with how well Iles defined and explained the concept of God as it relates to the story.  In most similar stories that I've read, this kind of thing usually comes off sounding pretty silly, but Iles handled it very well, without getting too incredibly abstract.  I also really liked the concept that the Trinity computer when done would have to be something elegant and simple, rather than a complicated mess of machinery.  I enjoyed the book all the way through for the interestig subject and the fast-paced storyline, but at the end, I was left a little unsatisfied by the conclusion.  Not to say that it was bad, but I was hoping for something more spectacular considering events leading up to it.<br />I would recommend this book for any fans of Iles' or anyone who likes a good fast-paced story.  I have read most of his previous novels and am very interested to see what he comes up with next.	2004-06-07
US	41132002	R13WSLQH474R9A	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Very good, reminiscent of his earlier books	After reading The Brethern, and The Summons, it seemed pretty clear that John Grisham's work was going downhill.  A Painted House, Skipping Christmas and Bleachers were all pretty good, but not in his usual genre of legal thrillers.  Then, with King of Torts, although I didn't like it as much as his earlier books, I thought he was on the way back up.  The Last Juror proves that this is true.<br />With a compelling story, great characters and plenty of courthouse drama, Grishma creates a feeling similar to his earlier books, A Time to Kill and The Chamber.  Having never lived in a small town, I don't know how accurate Grisham's picture of it is, however, the important part is he makes it seem beievable, as well as interesting.  I think the courtroom and the small town are where Grisham's storytelling abilities really shine, and getting away form that has made his more recent legal thrillers suffer.  I'm glad to see him return to it in The Last Juror.<br />I hope Grisham's next book continues the improvement that I have seen since The Summons, which I thought was his worst book to date.  Grisham fans, as well as any fans of the genre should enjoy this book.	2004-05-20
US	41132002	RHYKB1PWU4F34	0061030635	648069616	Wild Justice (Amanda Jaffe Series)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Just not very good.	A co-worker of mine read this after it had been recommended by a friend.  But she was disappointed when she finished it.  I should have listened to her and skipped it, but I didn't have anything else to read at the time, so I gave it a shot.<br />The plot is fast-paced, and exciting, but there really isn't much more to it, besides a lot of bodies, blood and gore.  The characters are completely unrealistic and shallow, and the &quot;twist&quot; at the end is easy to see coming.  I had it figured out around page 125 somewhere.<br />If you like a page-turner with lots of violence, you may enjoy this book.  Otherwise, it's not worth the time.	2004-05-17
US	41132002	R3DKINQZL4BIEU	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Kind of slow, but very good.	It seems like there are more and more books where part of the Earth is mysteriously changed overnight.  S.M. Sirling's Islands in the Sea of Time and Wilson's own Mysterium come to mind.  In all of them that I have read, you simply accept this change as part of the setting of the story.  Darwinia is different, in that the main character wants to find out why the change occured, and much of the story is dedicated to explaining that change, and this was why I liked this book better than I expected.<br />The story was pretty slow at the beginning, and I almost gave up on the book.  However, once Wilson started to explain how the change happened, it got much more interesting, if not much faster.  I enjoyed the characters in the book, particularly Gulliford Law, who is curious about what happened to cause the change in the Earth, but once he finds out, wants nothing more to do with it.  As I mentioned, the story is kind of slow, but I think it is worthwhile.<br />I have read several books by Wilson, and they have never been quite what I was expecting going in, but I have enjoyed them all.  I would recommend this book, and will look to read more of Wilson in the future.	2004-05-06
US	41132002	R1JQIIGZKXALIT	0312871996	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not a great story, but a very intriguing concept	I had read the Rama series by Arthur C. Clarke, and liked the sequels which had been co-authored with Gentry Lee than the original which Clarke wrote himself, as well as Manifold: Time, by Stephen Baxter, which I hated, so I wasn't sure I would like this book.  But it was highly recommended by a co-worker and the subject sounded interesting enough that I gave it a try.<br />The concept was everything that I had hoped for with the invention of the WormCam and the fall-out from their use.  The implications regarding privacy, honesty, history and religion were all very intersting to consider and were presented well in the book.  Where I thought the story was lacking was in the more focused plot involving the inventor of the WormCam and his family.  That story wasn't terribly interesting, and the characters were all fairly shallow and I didn't care too much about what happened to them.  I was also a little annoyed that the authors didn't seem to know when the Colosseum was built, as it appears in the story around 40 years before it existed.  There were also some othe minor things that annoyed me, such as how quickly the breakthroughs were made in the WormCam development, and also some of the more practical aspects of using the WormCam that weren't explained well.  Like, for example, if someone is walking around &quot;in the past&quot; using his WormCam, how does he avoid walking into walls in the present?  Overall, however, I thought the concept of the WormCam was interesting enough to overshadow the other problems, and it's capped off with a very well done ending that ties everything up pretty well.<br />I would recommend this book even if you don't necessarily like the authors because of the interesting subject, and if you are a fan of Clarke or Baxter, then you will probably enjoy it that much more.	2004-04-21
US	41132002	R2J7X37E4GV2XM	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Unexpected but unsatisfying ending	I saw this in the library and thought it looked pretty interesting, I was getting burnt out on thrillers with a lot of killing and formulaic plot twists having recently read all of Dan Brown's books, so I thought a thriller involving high-tech corporate espionage would be an interesting change of pace.<br />I wasn't disappointed by this book.  Finder does a good job of creating a protaganist who is likeable, but not the superman that you find in a lot of thrillers.  The plot is very fast paced with a lot of interesting things going on, the story never really gets bogged down at all.  This is all capped by a plot twist at the end that is sudden and pretty tough to see coming.  Well, actually, you can probably guess that something is coming, but it would be tough to guess what it is.  Having said that, while the ending is written well and hard to predict, it left me somewhat disatisfied for some reason.  I guess I thought the whole thing ended a little abruptly, however that didn't detract from my enjoyment of the book, just gave me a different feeling at the end of it.<br />I would recommend this book if you're looking for a fast-paced thriller with an interesting story, and less violence than you might usually see in this genre.	2004-04-09
US	41132002	RH5RZD0KVOU31	0380793156	350326931	Colony	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Better than I expected	I was desparate for something to read, and this was the best looking thing that I could find lying around at the time, so I really didn't expect much.  However, this book pleasantly surprised me, it was very well written with a lot of interesting characters and events.<br />I was surprised about a hundred pages into the book when I read something that didn't fit very well historically, to find out that this book is actually about twenty-five years old.  I should have realized it sooner because the dates in the story are very close to the present, but I just didn't notice that until I checked the copyright date.  Despite the abundance of picture phones, I thought the author did a really good job of writing a future world that doesn't seem to far fetched even after all this time.  I was somewhat disappointed in the ending, not that it was bad, but just a little abrupt and anticlimactic.  There was also a plot point that I thought was silly and unnecessary, it took one of the best parts of the book, a part that really made you see the protaganist's growth and just made it look like a really poor job of parenting by his gaurdian.<br />I wasn't expecting much from this book when I picked it up, but I will be looking to read more of Bova in the future.	2004-04-05
US	41132002	RVF4KAMXUBJW1	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Another cookie cutter thriller from Dan Brown.	I read Brown's other books (Angels and Demons, The Da Vinci Code and Deception Point), and liked them all despite many flaws and the fact that they were all incredibly similar in plot development and characterizations.  This book was pretty much like those, but I didn't like it as much.<br />There were so many unbelievable situations in this story, including the premise that the book is based on, that they were harder to ignore than in the other books.  Brown once again manages to make a ridiculous story readable and entertaining, however, which is why I gave the book 3 stars.<br />I don't know if Brown just doesn't have any other ideas, or if he is just trying to stick with what works, but I really wish I could see a different plot from him.  As it is, if he comes out with anything else, I'll make sure to read the reviews first, because if it's anything like his other books, I think I'm about burnt out on the one plot that he has come up with so far.	2004-03-15
US	41132002	R1WY3EKA25OT0Y	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Ok I liked it...but I didn't want to.	While reading this book, all I could keep thinking was, &quot;Haven't I already read this...twice?&quot;  After reading Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code by Brown, I hoped this would be a little different, but it wasn't.  Brown uses pretty much the exact same formula in this book that he did in the other two with respect to plot development and characterizations.<br />All three books start off with the protaganist waking up expecting it to be an ordinary day, only to be whisked all around the world chasing after earth shatteringly huge information about secrets which go to the highest levels of whatever, that people will kill to protect.  In the meantime, someone else is working against them to keep the secrets hidden and there is a shadowy unscrupulous organization killing people who get in the way.  As good guys turn into bad guys and bad guys turn into good guys, the plot twists and turns through wild speculative leaps of logic that turn out to be right on the button, characters out-guessing so-called experts in areas that they are not qualified to speculate about, and missing simple things that they should know easily from their own areas of expertise.  Of course, the characters are able to instantly overcome MAJOR trauma along the way, and perform death defying stunts, all in a completely implausible, if not impossible, time frame.  Throw in a family connection with one of the key players, and a completely superfluous love story and you have a Dan Brown thriller.<br />Having said all that, and knowing that I cannot think of a single good thing to say about the book looking back on it, I gave it 4 stars because, despite the mess that it was, it kept me on the edge of my seat, and I was definitely entertained by it...somehow.  I'd like to say that I won't be reading anymore of Brwon's books since they are so incredibly similar, but I've already started Digital Fortress.	2004-03-08
US	41132002	RXY4HGFDNY3PJ	0312864833	143918115	The Crystal City (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 6)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Another Orson Scott Card series peters out...	Like the Ender seriers did with Children of the Mind and the Homecoming series did with Earthborn, the Alvin Maker series sputters to a conclusion (hopefully) in The Crystal City.<br />Not that this book was terrible, but it just didn't seem to have any purpose other than gettin Alvin and his followers to the Crystal City, and there just wasn't anything interesting enough that happened along the way. I think they were all too good, and too powerful, that you knew they would always do the right thing, and you also knew that they always could, so there wasn't any doubt about the conclusion.<br />If you've read the rest of the series, you'll probably want to read this book just for closure, just don't expect much.	2004-02-27
US	41132002	R3N4210X7Z4LCI	0812509242	667775993	Heartfire (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 5)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not as good as the previous books in the series	I originally read this when it first came out, then re-read the series when I got the new book (The Crystal City) for Christmas.  This one was not as good as the other books in this series.<br />The story started off very slow, with a lot of nonsense about Arthur Staurt and Audobon (who could have been left out of the book completely) and birds.  While this was explained somwhat at the end of the book, it was still too much and too slow.  The book does get better near the end, but by that time, there has been too much junk preceeding it to make it seem worthwhile.  The dialogue between Denmark and Gullah Joe is particularly boring and painful to read.<br />I give this book three stars only because of the characters, which are still great, and the ongoing story of Alvin's quest to build the Crystal City, but it wasn't a great story on its own.  If you've read the other books in the series, this one is worth reading just to continue the story, but just barely.  I hope the next book can return to the great stories from the previous books, if not, then I hope it will at least be the last in this series.	2004-02-17
US	41132002	R26H9GI4V5FJ1S	0812509234	641963884	Alvin Journeyman (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 4)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Another great story within a story	I originally read this several years ago, and re-read it recently after getting the new book in the series.  As I read this series as a whole, I am staring to notice that the individual stories form each book (The war in Red Prophet, the story of Arthur Stuart in Prentice Alvin, and the trial in this book) and the new characters that keep coming along, are starting to overshadow the overall story of Alvin's quest to build the Crystal City.<br />This book started a little slowly, so I thought it might not have been as interesting as the previous books in the series, as often happens once you get this deep into a series.  But with the introduction of Verily Cooper and Alvin's trial, the book really picks up the pace.  I look forward to re-reading the next book (Heartfire) followed by the The Crystal City, which will hopefully conclude the series.<br />If you've enjoyed the other books in this series, you probably won't be disappointed by this one.	2004-02-02
US	41132002	R2OL50ULAYJHLK	0812502124	752150633	Prentice Alvin (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 3)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great characters, good continuing story of Alvin Maker	I originally read this several years ago, but decided to re-read this when I got the new book in the series.  This book was very good, both as the continuing story of Alvin Maker as well as the new story in this book with Arthur Staurt.<br />I really enjoyed the new depth to some of the characters that were introduced in previous books, but were more central to the story in this book.  Also, the new characters, such as Arthur Stuart and Mock Berry were very good as well.  The only thing I didn't like about this book was there is a point where Alvin has to do something very difficult, and while it is a very clever solution to the problem at hand, it seems like there was a much easier solution available that was not even mentioned.  But that was just a minor problem, and didn't detract much from a great story.<br />If you've read Seventh Son and Red Prophet, you should definitely continue the story with this book.	2004-01-26
US	41132002	R2F97ITMCQ8T92	0812524268	654798971	Red Prophet (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting world along with some great characters	I originally read this several years ago, but read it again after getting the new book in the series for Christmas.  I enjoyed the book even more this time than I did the first.<br />Card does a great job of creating a world that is very similar to our own from the same time period, but with some very important differences in how the world works and some tweaking to early American history.  He populates this world with many interesting characters including some historical figures.  The result is an incredibly compelling story which has many different levels.  The massacre at Tippy-Canoe and the results are particularly well done.<br />This book is better than the first in the series and leaves me eager to re-read the next one, Prentice Alvin.  If you have read Seventh Son, you should definitely continue the series by reading this.	2004-01-21
US	41132002	R2OZ8712VQL0QQ	0812533054	856857613	Seventh Son (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good introduction to the series	I first read this several years ago, but I recently got the new book and the series and thought I should re-read the others before starting it.  This book was good even the second time.<br />This book is a little short, and the plot doesn't really have much of a resolution, it really just serves as an introduction to the story of Alvin Maker.  And it does this very well.  The reader is introduced to a world where many superstitions are true, where the seventh son of a seventh son is powerful force, and becomes the focus of the story.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to read a good fantasy series, but don't try to read it as a stand-alone story.	2004-01-14
US	41132002	R231R20I0ZMZ41	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Brown seems to use a formula, but it's a good one	With all the hype about this book, I was looking forward to reading it, however, I got ahold of Brown's Angels and Demons first and read that first.  The Da Vinci Code was very good, but I was a bit disappointed that it seemed to follow a formula that I had seen almost exactly in Angels and Demons with regard to the characters and plot development.<br />Despite the formulaic style of the writing that annoyed me somewhat, the book was still very good.  As in Angels and Demons, I don't know how much of the information regarding the subject matter is accurate, but it worked well for the purposes of the story, and I think that's most important in fiction.  Brown does a good job of withholding and revealing information at the right times so you are always wanting to know more, but you find out enough to not get frustrated.<br />If you've read Angels and Demons, you may find this a little too similar, but it's still good.  If you haven't read Angels and Demons, than this will be much better.  I will probably read more of Brown's books, but likely not anything with Robert Langdon in it.	2004-01-05
US	41132002	R34GV3LVFEL1YF	0765308738	465263714	First Meetings in the Enderverse	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good stories, but nothing new	I normally don't read short stories, but I liked the Ender series so much, the I thought I would make an exception for this collection.<br />I enjoyed all the stories, but I didn't feel like I was reading anything all that new.  Card did a good job in the original books of giving you an idea of the history of everything, so these stories just seemed to give me more detail about the specifics.  I really enjoyed reading the original Ender's Game story again, it makes me want to re-read the book.<br />All four of the stories were good, so if you are a fan of the Ender series, I would recommend this book, but don't expect anything exceptional.	2004-01-05
US	41132002	R2O40BD6WSE286	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great read, exciting, interesting story	I have heard all the hype about Brown's The Da Vinci Code, so I wanted to read that, but came across this one first, so I thought I would give it a shot.  It was well worth reading.<br />It starts out with some very interesting subject matter, combining science, religion, art and history into a very exciting story.  I don't know how accurate all of the information in the story actually is, but for the purposes of the plot, it was presented very well.  I did have some problems with some of the science and the explanations of it, but not enough to decrease my overall enjoyment of the story.  The interesting subject matter is complemented by good characters, and an exciting plot which accelerates in intensisty right up until the action-packed, plot-twisting conclusion.<br />I would recommend this book very highly, however if you have strong feelings about religion and/or science or the conflicts between them, make sure to keep in mind that this is just fiction.  I look forward to reading The Da Vinci Code.	2003-12-29
US	41132002	ROSRKNYVEBSYN	1400061563	942724151	Death by Hollywood: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very good, especially fom a TV guy	I always liked Bochco's TV shows, so I thought it would be interesting to see how he writes a novel.  I was not disappointed by this book.<br />There were a lot of places in this story, where I thought the writing didn't flow too well, jokes added in unnecessarily, anecdotes that seemed out of place and expanations of things that didn't require an explanation.  At one point, he even goes so far as to put the quotes from the previous paragraph that he is explaining in parentheses in his explanation, which was a little too much, since i had just read it and it was easy enough to follow without the references.  Also, I didn't really like the point of view of this book, told in the first person from the agent's point of view.  There were things in the story that the agent really shouldn't have had any idea about, but somehow he did.  Bochco seems to try to clean this up at the end by miplying that those parts are just speculation, but it just doesn't come off well.  Also, I really didn't see too much reason to include the agent in the story anyway.  It seemed like he just didn't know how to tell the story, and used the agent in place of himself to tell it, and I think it would have been better in the third person without the agent.  Also, there is an anecdote from the agent near the end of the story that seems completely superfluous, and I got the impression that it was included only to take a shot at David Caruso. There are also some fairly large leaps of logic made by both the agent and the cop which are a bit hard to swallow.<br />Despite the problems with some of the writing, I really enjoyed the story, and I especially liked some of the twists and turns of the plot.  Near the end, it seemed like it was going to have a fairly predictable ending, and Bochco manages to avoid it nicely.  The characters were also pretty interesting, despite being a little shallow.  All in all, I enjoyed the book, but I think Bochco's main talent may be as an idea man, and not a writer,but despite that, I will read his next novel if he writes one, and would recommend this one as well.	2003-12-22
US	41132002	R34SHEIC7HV85K	0345455207	290935571	Utopia	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good read, but silly at the end.	I liked the premise of this book, with it being set in a theme park.  I also liked the way the theme park was designed, it did seem to be very revolutionary and interesting.  However, I thought that some of the descriptions of the park conflicted with each other.  Such as the idea of it being a one-day total immersion experience, and therefore not having on-site hotels, but then several times in the story describing situations where people would want to return for more than a single day.  If people are willing to come back, then the park is going to make that as easy as possible for them, especially if Nightengale's vision was corrupted by corporate &quot;bean-counters&quot; greedy for profits, as is described in the story.<br />The only major thing that I didn't like about the story is it didn't seem to me that the Metanet really had much of a purpose at all, except to bring Warne into the story.  And the bad guys seemed so concerned with Warne, when they had absolutely no reason to be.  Even the things that he discoveered about them could have easily been discovered by Terri or anyone else, and even though Warne dd figure things out, the bad guys had no way of knowing that he did, and therefore shouldn't have been any more concerned with him than anyone else.  Actually, Poole seemed to make a bigger difference as far as being a random element interfering with thir plans.  <br />Finally, the ending of this story just seemed to grow more ridiculous by the page.  I realize that this is the case with a lot of thrillers to keep you on the edge of your seat, but some of the things in this story were just too much.  There were also too many things where a convenient solution was just written in with no logical explanation as to why these solutions would be available.<br />I enjoyed the book, and it was interesting the entire time, but be prepared for some silly situations.	2003-12-18
US	41132002	ROJTWWVC4CI8H	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sad, but interesting story	I read this after a friend recommended it.  I wasn't really sure what to expect, but I was pleasantly surprised.<br />The story is long and takes quite a few unexpected turns, but the characers are very interesting and I was really rooting for them to do well.  This wasn't a &quot;page-turner&quot; that I just had to keep reading to find out what happened next, so it went a little slow, but it was definitely worth it.  The authoris a little hard to follow at times, often leaving in the middle of a scene and telling some back story in its entirety only to return right where he left off.  But it all comes together pretty well despite that, you just have to pay attention.  I also thought the ending was somewhat predictable, but I think the author kind of wrote himself into a corner, where there weren't many choices about how the story could end.  But despite that, he handled it pretty well and it was as good an ending as the story would allow.<br />I would recommend this book for it's great characters and interesting story, but be prepared, because there are quite a few sad parts to it.	2003-12-01
US	41132002	RT0IKJ6ZUW2N3	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Short, but good	I was glad to see that Grisham had strayed from legal thrillers once again for his next book, especially when I found out tha the subject was football, which I love.  I really enjoyed both Skipping Christmas and A Painted House much more than The Bretheren or The Summons.  <br />I think Grisham does agood job of painting a picture of a small town obsessed with High School Football. And the characters have just enough depth to be interesting, even if they are a bit one-dimensional.  It was intersting to see how the small town life dedictated to football had different effects on characters from different eras, but how they all shared a bond because of their similar experiences playing football.<br />I only had to minor issues while reading the book.  First there was some dialogue at the beginning that I thought sounded a little forced, with the characters seeming to talk more to the reader than actually discussing something among themselves.  And second, was the convesation between Neely and his old-girlfriend.  Most of that I thought didn't make much sense, at least from her perspective.<br />I enjoyed the book and hope Grisham will continue to stray from the legal thrillers in the future, as I think he has a talent for storytelling that transcends that small niche.	2003-10-30
US	41132002	RNIG4H9XXOH0	0061054275	631459515	Eternity Road	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very Interesting story	I had seen this book a while back and almost read it, but found something else instead, so when I saw it at the Library recently, I decided to try it, especially since I have been interested in stories about Future Earth lately.<br />This was a very good story, because while I new some of what the characters did not know, and were looking for, there was a lot of what they were trying to find out that I wanted to find out as well.  How the author saw the future and the downfall of civilization was interesting to wonder about, as well as what advances were achieved after the present, but before the fall.  Also, it was compelling to see how the characters approached life when they knew about some of what technology could accomplish, but were not able to duplicate.  This book really did a good job of holding my interest because of those aspects.<br />Having said that, there were some things that I found lacking in the story, mostly just with the level of detail that was presented to the reader.  I would have liked more at the end about exactly what happened with the plague.  I thought some of the descriptions in the book were not very well done, especially with regard to the maglev train.  I just didn't see how it could look like it did when they first saw it, and how did they get the horses on to it, it seems that that should have been a bigger issue than it was.  Also, there was no detail about the return journey, but it must have been an adventure as well. However, these were all pretty minor issues that I found and didn't detract much from my enjoyment of the book.<br />I would recommend this book, and will look to read more by McDevitt.	2003-10-28
US	41132002	R37UVU54FL4SIO	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Grisham's Best	After The Firm became so incredibly popular, I decided I should read it, just to know what everyone was talking about.  But since I always like to read books in the order they were written whenever possible, I decided to read A Time to Kill first, and I'm glad I did.<br />This book was just great, it had everything you could ask for.  A sympathetic figure at its center, a protagonist who was a good guy and easy to root for, and plenty of bad guys that were easy to dislike.  Add to that an action-packed plot, and the result is a book you just can't put down.<br />I've read all of Grisham's books so far, but this one still remains the best as far as I'm concerned.	2003-10-13
US	41132002	R33WN3LYLW1A2	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, page-turning thriller	While the plot of this book seemed a bt formulaic and predictable, Sandford still manages to keep the reader hooked using some well-written characters and an interesting plot that keeps you wanting to know what is going to happen next.<br />I don't normally read many thrillers, but I picked this up when I was starved for something to read, and I was not disappointed.  This book is definitely worth reading, but be careful, because it's possible you will get hooked.  After reading Rules of Prey, I continued reading the Prey series for another 10 or 11 books before I was finally able to wrestle myself away from them.	2003-10-13
US	41132002	R1679MXY4IOVWO	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very interesting...right up until the end.	When I first came across this book, I had never read anything by Wilson, but thought the premise of this was very interesting.  Before I was able to get a copy of this book, I came across two other books by Wilson (BIOS and Mysterium) which I read and really enjoyed even though they did not have such an interesting premise.  The writing and plot and especially the endings of those books made me even more eager to read this one.<br />When I finally did find this book at the library, I was not disappointed.  The characters were very interesting to me, and the premise was everything that I had expected. This book kept me wanting to know what would happen next.  However, once I got to the end, I thought it was a little anticlimatic, and I was somewhat disappointed, especially after having been impressed with the endings in the other Wilson book that I had read.   Having said that, this ws still a very good book, and worth reading, and I will continue to look for more from Wilson in the future.	2003-10-09
US	41132002	RAR020G3VK0LS	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Good, but dark...and cold	I enjoyed this book, although I thought it was a little bit slow at times.  I also thought that the setting was focused on a little too much for my liking (much like in Dune), and I wished I could have learned more about the characters, and the politics and society of Winter, instead of just the environment.<BR>This book was a little dark, and cold, but I definitely enjoyed it and will look to read more of Le Guin.	2003-09-29
US	41132002	R14FG4QKXH848E	1561632074	808168523	The Adventures of a Lesbian College School Girl	Books	5	6	19	N	N	The Adventures of a Lesbian College School Girl	The editorial review for this book says \\"Petra is one horny school girl who cant wait to get pussy with harnessed dildoes into every opening of her newly developed womanhood. Happily, finding an equally fired-up lezzie companion in school turns out not to be so difficult. Better yet, shes mouthwateringly gorgeous!\\"  and I think that pretty much sums it up.	2003-09-25
US	41132002	R2R1YPS9P0WGJ9	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Very enjoyable	I really liked this book.  It was very well written.  The characters were well done and interesting and there was quite a bit going on in the plot despite the book's short length.<br />I really liked that the story began before the characters got involved in the main plot.  I was able to get a sense of the characters lives before they were changed by the events in the book.  The characters were all very well written, I really felt like I was sharing the experiences with them instead of just being a spectator.  I thought Atticus' character may have been just a bit too perfect, but it didn't bother me that much.<br />I didn't have the really strong feelings about this book that I have seen from others, but I still think it is very good.  And I would recommend it to anyone who wants to read a good, interesting story.	2003-09-11
US	41132002	R1155HUXNQMUEM	0765342618	769723156	Kiln People (The Kiln Books)	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Too long, overly complex, and way too slow.	When I first started this book, I found it very interesting.  The world that Brin creates where anyone can make copies of themselves to be in more than one place at a time, or to complete mundane everyday chores while the &quot;real&quot; person can sit back and relax, raises all kinds of interesting moral, ethical, philosophical, and logistical questions.  However, once I got past the initial novelty of this way of life, and got more into the actual plot, I realized that the story set in this world does not live up to the world that it is set in. At first it seems like a pretty boring mystery, but quickly accelerates into a ridiculously complex conspiracy which gets less and less believable and less interting as it goes on.  At times I actuall felt like Brin must have been making it up as he went along.<br />Also, another big problem I had with the book was the lack of an explanation as to exactly how the physical process of dittoing was accomplished.  I would think that this deserved more explanation than it got simply because of its importance to the plot.  For example, what are the golems actually made of?  Of course they are made of clay, as is often refernced, but then what is the psuedoflesh that is talked about occaisionally?  I thought that perhaps the clay golems may be covered with this psuedoflesh, but later realized that this could not be the case because of things that happened in the story.  Also, if the golems are made of clay, what is the difference between normal golems, and Kaolin's &quot;hyperquality&quot; platinum golems?  I find it hard to believe that the same process that works on clay would work better on platinum.  And if this is not the case, then isn't the difference just the color?  And if it is just the color, then why are Kaolin's better than anyone else's?  Another thing is that it  is very important at certain parts of the story that the golems are identical to their original, except in color, but the process of how that physically occurs is never explained.  Wouldn't a large man need a larger blank than a small man?  Logically, I would think so, but in the factory, it seems that all blanks are fairly standard.  Also, if the blank is somehow shaped to match the original, then how is the information on how to shape it obtained by the copying machine?  It seems that in the story, all that is needed is for the copier's head to be in the correct place, nothing is mentioned about reading any physical measurements of the body.  Finally, if the golems actually do look like their originals, how come Albert was not able to recognize his own copy at one point?  It seems that the copies are recognizable when it is convenient to the story, and unrecognizable when that is needed for the story.<br />I really liked the premise of this book, but there was just too much wrong with the story for me to enjoy it.  Even if I could ignore all the problems, it ws still much too long and slow and more complicated than it had to be for the story that was told.  It really dragged from somewhere in the middle all the way to the end.  Maybe with some editing, even with the problems, this book wouldn't be so bad, but as it is, there is too much wrong with it.  Read something else instead.	2003-09-02
US	41132002	R2DX0XER897MMA	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Good characters, disjointed, overdone plot	As with other books I've read by Sawyer, I liked the writing in this book, and I thought the characters were interesting and believable.  However, there was too much about the plot that was unbelievable.<br />First, I thought there was just too much drama in the plot.  I don't want to list everything, because that would give things away, but it was one thing after another for the characters to deal with.  I also thought it was too big a coincidence that all these things happened when the aliens were around.  Also, I thought there was a little too much abstract science that would occaisionally bog down the story.  Another thing that bothered me was he whole concept of God.  The God that the aliens believed in was really nothing like the religious figure that we are familiar with, and therefore, I doubt that the aliens would even have relaed their belief as a belief in God, rather than an advanced intelligence that is behind the creaton of our universe.<br />Despite the problems I described above, I found the story interesting enough to keep reading, and I liked the characters.  But I wouldn't recommend this book because there are many better books out there, including several by Sawyer.	2003-08-07
US	41132002	R7Z7NYQHIWIZ2	0312876912	333405073	Humans (The Neanderthal Parallax, Book 2)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Romance disguised as science fiction	This book was ok, only as the continuing story from Hominids.  I really thought this book was too much about the love story between Ponter and Mary (which was one of the worst parts of the first book) and not not enough about the neanderthal world and their dealings with our own world.  <br />I liked the parts that dealt with the differences in neanderthal history and science, and the political situations that Ponter and the ambassador were involved in.  But those were few and far between overshadowed by this unnecessary and unbelievable love story.<br />Finally, I thought the Synergy group that Mary joins was very focused on the magnetic field without ever giving us a good reason why.  Then at the end, there is a little surprise thrown in which seemed pretty silly to me, and I might normally say that it looked bad for the next book, but anything that takes attention away from this romance disguised as science fiction will be an improvement. <br />I would recommend reading this book if you liked Hominids, but it isn't as good.  Hopefully, the next book will be much better.	2003-07-28
US	41132002	R145AXWI07JBJQ	0765345005	813218222	Hominids: Volume One of The Neanderthal Parallax	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good read, despite alot of little annoyances	I had recently tried to read another book by Sawyer (Flash Forward) and could not really get into it, because I thought it was a little too technical for my tastes.  But my brother recommended this to me, so I thought I would give it a shot.  I thought the story was much more interesting than Flash Forward and it was not weighed down by a lot of technical details.<br />There were a lot of things that bothered me in this book, but they were mostly pretty superficial and didn't really detract from my enjoyment of the story.  First, I didn't like the way the neanderthal culture was portrayed.  I never like it when a book deals with a new culture and they seem to be very vanilla and bland (all wearing the same clothes, using the exact same greeting whenever they see each other, all focused entirely on the community, and having a big ceremonial event which their entire society revolves around) all these things seemed a little bit too formulaic to me.  I think it would have been much better had their society been a little more complex.  I also thought that this story did not need a love story at all.  However, I realize that this is a trilogy, and it will probably be explored more in the other books in the series, but for this book alone, I think it would have been better without it, and if it had to be there, I think it should have been given more time.  It seemed much too quick to me for them to overcome the obstacles involved to even think about each other in that way.  Also, I thought it was far too convenient that the companion implant was able to make communication so easy between the two cultures, especially after finding out that Ponter's companion was unusual in this reagrd.  Finally, I thought Mary did a lousy job of explaining religion for someone who is supposedly a Catholic.  It made me think that the author may have different beliefs and has a hard time expressing the other side.<br />Despite all these things that bothered me, I was very interested in the story and the characters involved throughout the entire book.  I think the premise behind the book is a very interesting one.  And I think the author did a very good job of discussing the technical aspects of quantum mechanics without the story getting bogged down or boring.  I also really liked hearing about the alternate history of the neaderthal world.<br />I would recommend this book for it's interesting story and characters, but it is far from great.	2003-07-28
US	41132002	R3V3OWRD60W1TY	0345428811	938075605	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Much more depth than the movie	I really enjoyed this book, despite having seen the movie a few times already.  The book provided a lot more information that there was in the movie.<br />There was a lot more depth to both the plot and the characters, including a look at Shmi's life with the Lars family and her abduction by the Tusken Raiders, and the failed attempts to rescue her, also the love story between Annakin and Padme is developed much better so it actually seems they have a real basis for their feelings for each other.  We also get to meet Padme's family and are able to see her much more as a person than just a political figure.<br />These and a few others are the reasons to read the book.  Everything else follows pretty directly with the movie, but there is enough extra information in the story to make the book well worth reading for Star Wars fans.  I look foward to Episode III, both the book and movie.	2003-07-18
US	41132002	R3W43PB6N40QRM	0553259288	783024083	Silverthorn (Riftwar Saga, Volume 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good series continues	I didn't like the second book in this series nearly as much as the first, and I was afraid the series might continue downhill in this volume.  Fortunately, that was not the case.<br />This book is much more plot-driven than the last book, and the events are exciting and suspenseful.  I was eager to find out what was going to happen.<br />This was much better than the last book and really got me back into the series and looking forward to the conclusion in the next book.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R2AF2RRWJJ0EBY	0553263285	200441275	A Darkness at Sethanon (The Riftwar Saga, Vol. 4)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	A good series concludes	I really liked the first and third books in this series, and the second one was ok, so I was looking forward to an exciting conclusion.<br />This book was exciting, but I thought it got too involved in the mystical nonsense surrounding the Lifestone and Pug and Tomas and Murmandamus.  I wish the story could have focused more on Arutha and Jimmy and the other fine characters that Feist has created and a good plot.<br />If you read the other books in the series, you will probably enjoy this one as well, but I thought, while it was still ok,  it was the worst of the series.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R3KCAJE80YKSHE	0553256467	543210681	Magician : Master (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Ok, but not nearly as good as the first book in the series	I was surprised by how much I enjoyed the first book in this series, Magician: Apprentice, and was hoping for more of the same out of this book.  However, I found that I didn't enjoy this nearly as much.<br />I thought this book was a little too light on actual plot and spent too much time on the mystical transformation of Pug into Milamber, Tsurani Great One.<br />If you liked the first book in the series, you'll probably want to read this one as well, but don't expect it to be as good.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R2XK49Y0MTV9WE	0553292455	15112984	Servant of the Empire (Riftwar Cycle: The Empire Trilogy)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	An excellent saga continues	I didn't enjoy this book as much as I did the first in the series, but I think it may have just been because Daughter of the Empire raised my expectations to a very high level.<br />I thought this book went a little overboard with Mara of the Acoma breaking traditions as she falls in love with Kevin, the slave from across the rift in Midkemia.  Nevertheless, this is still a very good book and I see it as sort of a bridge between the other two fantastic volumes of this series.<br />If you liked the first book in the series, I'm sure you will enjoy this one as well, but if you don't like this as much, don't worry because the conclusion, Mistress of the Empire lives up to the standard set by Daughter of the Empire.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R3QMLLAZX1I9AJ	0553564943	930626996	Magician: Apprentice	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Who the heck is Raymond Feist?	That's what I was thinking as I began reading this book about 10 years ago, as I had never heard of him before.  Despite my reservations because I hadn't heard anything about the book or the author, I was quickly hooked.<br />The world of Midkemia that Feist creates in this book is very well done, I really got a good sense of how life was there through the eyes of Pug, the young magician's apprentice.  Just as I was getting comfortable with this new world and the characters in it, the book gets very exciting when a war breaks out between the Midkemians and the Tsurani who have been transported to Midkemia through a rift that connects the two worlds.<br />This was a very interesting and engrossing book, and I would recommend it to any fans of good epic fantasy.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R1KZK9SZ4VKH0B	0553561189	785845634	Mistress of the Empire (Empire Trilogy, Bk. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Action-packed conclusion to an excellent series	I loved the first two books in this series and was really hoping that the third could maintain the standard set in those.  I was not disappointed, this book may have been the best of the three.<br />As Mara of the Acoma continues to be a major player in the politics of the Tsurani Empire on Kelewan, this book is packed with action and intrigue right up to the exciting conclusion.<br />For those who read and enjoyed the first two books in this series, you will not be disappointed by this one.	2003-07-12
US	41132002	R3D80AJDKV9Q2Z	0451167716	638098276	The Godfather (Signet)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic Book	I had somehow managed not to ever see the Godfather movies. I guess I thought they just weren't my thing.  I was glad that I had not seen them when I picked up this book on a whim in the bookstore one day, as I don't like to read books after I've already seen the movie.<br />This book was simply excellent.  The characters were all very well written, I felt like I really knew who they were, and the plot is great, it has everything, love, sex, violence, crime, action...  There is nothing missing.<br />After reading the books, I did finally watch the movies and discovered that they were as good as everyone says they are as well.<br />I was a little surprised to find that a lot of reviewers didn't like this book as much as the movies, I can't really understand why.  I would recommend reading this book regardless of whether you have seen the movie or not.	2003-07-11
US	41132002	R3GKLL8G5LDSPR	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best that I have read from King	This must have been very difficult to read as a serial novel in its original form.  I was hooked right away by this story, I don't think I could have waited for the next installment.  <br />What an incredibly likeable and well written bunch of characters.  And the story is really emotionally powerful.  Its happy and sad, tragic and remarkable all at the same time.  I couldn't put it down.<br />I thought this book had a different kind of feel to it than most of King's other books that I have read, but I loved it.  Very interesting and entertaining.  Also an excellent movie.	2003-07-11
US	41132002	R2UBKKXOS1O8GN	0345412214	664598597	The Last Don	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not as good as The Godfather, but it has a similar feel	After reading The Godfather, which I loved, I was eager to read this as well.  While it isn't quite as good as The Godfather, which would be pretty hard, it is still very good, and has a similar feel.<br />The story didn't seem as intense as the tale told in The Godfather, but it was engrossing nonetheless.  I thought the characters were very well written and I really felt like I knew where they were coming from.<br />After reading this book, I watched the miniseries, which did not nearly live up to the book.  If you liked The Godfather, I would recommend reading this as well, but don't expect it to be quite that good.	2003-07-11
US	41132002	R1Y556Y1J6I5KD	0345427653	241741985	Star Wars, Episode 1: The Phantom Menace	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting to read the book after seeing the movie	I normally don't read books after I've already seen the movie, and especially not books based on a screenplay. But since I like Star Wars, I thought I would make an exception with this book.<br />It went a little slowly since I already knew the story, but I did enjoy it the whole time. The book was pretty much right in line with the movie, but there is a some extra information in the book that you don't get in the movie, such as a better picture of Annakin's life before the Queen and her entourage show up on Tatooine, and a better understanding of the relationship between Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon, and a more in-depth explanation of the Sith, and their background.<br />If you're a Star Wars fan, you'll probably like this whether you've seen the movie or not.	2003-07-03
US	41132002	R8BNDG2SO3F3D	0385507593	548424525	Jennifer Government: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I liked Syrup better, but this was good.	After reading Barry's other novel, Syrup, I was eager to read this one as well.  <br />At first I thought this wasn't going to be nearly as good.  I didn't like the characters as much, and I had a hard time buying into the vision of the future that the book presented.  Syrup had a lot of things that i found unbelievable as well, but it was funny enough that I was able to overlook them for the most part.  This book didn't seem to have enough for me to overlook the things that bothered me about it.  However, the action really picked up at the end, and I found myself much less bothered by the things that bothered me earlier in the book.  After finishing it, the only thing that still really bugged me was the idea that Jennifer would leave her daughter with a near stranger who had been dangerously close to suicide the day before.<br />Despite any problems I had with this book, I still really enjoyed reading it, and would recommend it, though I still don't think it was very believable.  I also look forward to reading more from Barry in the future.	2003-06-20
US	41132002	R1IKQWUUKO3V0X	0380797631	556400278	Last Days of Summer	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great story, told in a unique way	I recently discovered (upon reading Syrup by Maxx Barry) that a unique writing style can do wonders for a book.  This book was defintely unique, with the story being told through letters, notes, interviews, programs, and various correspondence between the characters of the story.  I really enjoyed that aspect of it, but I also quickly realized that this book was more than just a novelty.<br />About a third of the way through the book, I formed a pretty strong impression of what I thought was going to happen at the end, but instead of that making me less interested, it made me more interested.  I kept reading until I was finished to see if my impression was right.  I didn't know if I wanted to be or not.<br />Along with the unique perspective, this book provides a compelling story about growing up when it must have been a very difficult time to grow up.  It really made me appreciate my relatively easy childhood of the 70's and 80's.  It also shows, however, that even in such a difficult time with so many bad things going on in the world, there are good things too.  And if you work hard enough to achieve your goals, then anything is possible.<br />I really enjoyed this book and would highly recommend it to anyone.	2003-06-11
US	41132002	RC1VDXIQKZ0KZ	0060520450	114034069	The Stingray Shuffle (Serge Storms)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Another funny roller-coaster ride	In the tradition of his previous four novels, Florida Roadkill, Hammerhead Ranch Motel, Orange Crush, and Triggerfish Twist, Dorsey once again provides the reader with a disjointed rolloer-coaster ride of a read with several plotlines racing toward a messy and hilarious conclusion.<br />This book also resolves the mystery of the missing five million dollars from Florida Roadkill and Hammerhead Ranch Motel and explains how Serge got amnesia in Orange Crush.  With all of that explained, I hope Dorsey will move on to some new characters for his next novel, and not milk these until they are not funny anymore.  I would be very interested to see how Dorsey does without Serge as a protaganist.  Although I do see a possibility of another novel between this one and Orange Sruch to further explain how amnesiac Serge ends up working for the governor.<br />This book is a must-read for anyone who has read Dorsey's other books, both for its new characters and situations as well is its resolution of existing plotlines.	2003-06-09
US	41132002	R10JQRO2GCRL8E	0553577387	499408577	Aftermath	Books	3	9	9	N	N	I was hoping this would be a lot better.	I read a lot of reviews for this book before starting it, so I wasn't expecting it to be great.  But a lot of the complaints I read about it dealt with it being part of a series and not resolving much of the story in this book, so I thought if I was prepared for this going in, it wouldn't detract from my enjoyment of the book.<br />Unfortunately, not resolving much of the plot isn't the only thing wrong with this book.  In fact, about the only good thing that I can say about it was that it was interesting enough to hold my attention long enough to finish it.  There were just too many things in it that bothered me as I read.<br />I really didn't think much of the characters in the book, they weren't terribly likeable, and their actions a lot of the time seemed to go against common sense.  Also, there were a lot of silly coincidences in the book that just didn't make much sense except to make the story easier on the writer.  I'm sure with such a major catastrophe there are interesting things going on somewhere outside of Washington, let's hear about some of those.  And I can buy that Oliver Guest is in judicial sleep in Washington, but then, he just happens to live there too, come on.  Finally, there were several minor things that just didn't make any sense, like calling people when the phones only work on old equipment, and then asking where they are, as Art did to Dana.  Or , supposedly when Seth go the call, he had &quot;gone to ground&quot;, so then how did Dana know where to call him?  And finally, the president remembering when the auto teacher machine had broken down 45 years ago.  That would have made it about 1981, and I was in school then, and all my teachers were still actual people.<br />I really wouldn't recommend this book to anyone, there is just too much wrong with it.  Having said that, however, I may read the sequel, just to find out what happens in the story because everything was left completely up in the air in this one.	2003-06-04
US	41132002	R3ER7DCY3AEX58	0553569538	184595435	Mysterium	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting story, well written	After reading BIOS by Wilson, I wanted to find more from him because I liked his writing.  Mysterium was as good as I had hoped.<br />The plot was well developed and the characters were interesting.  Also, as I found in BIOS, Wilson is very good at letting you get important information about the setting through the plot instead of having to explicitly describe things.  I also liked that the author at least made mention at the beginning of the book about how the world that was left behind reacted to the disappearance of the town.  In other similar stories I've read, I've wondered about this, but it was never addressed.<br />One thing that I think could have made this book better was if the author had written more about the town and the characters before the event took place.  I think this would have given the reader a better idea about who the characters were before this happened to them.  Something like what Stephen King did so well in The Stand.<br />In any case, I enjoyed Mysterium and would recommend it.  I will continue to look for more from Wilson in the future.	2003-05-23
US	41132002	R1B25SX4OKGFHM	0140291873	680707728	Syrup	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A roller coaster ride.	Where do I start with this book?  The characters were completely unrealistic, the plot twists were ridiculous, and the situations that the characters were able to handle were just impossible.  But despite all that, I really liked this book.  It was just funny.<br />I think the author's style really drew me in.  It was a very quick, easy and enjoyable read.  With the short sections, introductory headlines, and marketing tips, this book was just fun to read.  I'll probably look for more from this author in the future.	2003-05-19
US	41132002	RAU8927O06R1C	0812575741	546958481	Bios	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is the first book I've read by Wilson...	And I wasn't disappointed.  Even though BIOS is relatively short, it tells a very interesting story.  The characters are all well written and believable. <br />I really like that the reader is able to glean as much information about the politics of Earth from the story rather than it all being explicitly spelled out.<br />Without giving away too much, I also really liked that Wilson didn't just cop-out on the ending.<br />I really enjoyed this book and will look for more from Wilson.	2003-05-15
US	41132002	R29VATW2SB35X5	0812577590	42353892	The Sky Road (Fall Revolution)	Books	3	1	9	N	N	Just OK	This book was ok.  It was interesting to read, but there was nothing particularly special about it.<br />I never really felt much concern over what was going to happen with the characters or the story.  I wanted to find out what happened, but I didn't have any strong feelings about the characters or what I thought should happen.<br />I've seen other reviews here that seem to indicate that this is part of a series. If that is the case, then perhaps I missed something in an earlier book that would have made this more enjoyable.  I will probably investigate this and try to read any earlier books because I do think MacLeod writes well.  Hopefully, in one of his other books I will find the spark that I think was lacking in this one.	2003-05-07
US	41132002	R28S6NC5U086JV	055327211X	183942830	Daughter of the Empire: An Epic Saga of the World on the Other Side of the Riftwar (Riftwar Cycle: The Empire Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than the series it is derived from	I read and really liked the Riftwar Saga, but after reading the Empire trilogy, I now see the Riftwar Saga as just a background story to set up the exciting world of the Tsurani on Kelewan where this book is set.<br />The world that is created by Feist and Wurts is incredibly interesting, with great depth.  The culture and politics are all so well written and believable. You really feel like a part of the story.<br />I first read this about 10 years ago, and recently re-read it, which is something I rarely do, and it was just as good the second time.  I have read a lot of books by Feist, but the difference between this series and those makes me wonder if I should be looking for more from Wurts instead.  This book begins an excellent series, you won't be disappointed.	2003-04-29
US	41132002	R3AK2XZG80FWT5	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	2	10	24	N	N	Oh, come on	This was an OK book, but nothing terribly exciting ever happened. The battles were not very interesting, and they were very short. I never got much of a sense at all of the Taurans or what they were fighting for.<br />The most interesting part was the part about Earth in the future, but that was also the worst part. I know this book was written in the 70s, so I can overlook people riding around in blimps, talking on videophones, or sitting down to read the evening fax, but the economic and political situation in Earth was at best silly, and at worst completely ridiculous. Either way, it wasn't at all believable.<br />Also, the love story between William and Marygay seemed a little thrown in. One minute it's a free-for-all with anyone sleeping with anyone else, the next minute, these two are paired up and I guess in love. The author either should have provided some background for why this happened, or just left it out.<br />Finally, the ending seemed abrupt, especially for a book titled The \\"Forever\\" War. It could have been considerably longer, with more detailed battles, more information about the enemy, and a more realistic protaganist with some real human emotions, then maybe it would have been an interesting story. As it is, it's just not worth reading.  I know a lot of people really like this book and that's fine with me, but personally, I just don't see why it's so highly thought of.	2003-04-23
US	41132002	RBTBM19EPS3A7	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	4	11	28	N	N	Good, but it didn't &quot;grab&quot; me	After seeing part of the movie (as much as I could stand to watch), I've always avoided this book, but after reading some reviews of it, I decided it was probably just the movie that stunk and gave it a try.<br />I liked the book.  I thought the plot was good, and the characters were solid, and I was always interested to find out what happened.  But the plot never really grabbed me, I never had to keep reading to find out what happened, so it went a litt;e slow for me.  But I think that may just be a personal preference more than any shortcoming of the story.  I thought it got a little too involved in the ritual and the customs of the Fremen, but what I was more interested in were the characters of Maud'dib and Jessica and the Atriedes and Harkonnen families.<br />I'll probably at leat read the next book to see if I get any more interested, but if I don't I probably won't go any farther with the series.  Overall, though, I thought this book was interesting and well-written if not the best thing for me personally.	2003-04-16
US	41132002	RE3IQ533XJ7XN	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great new perspective on a great story.	After Children of the Mind, I was a little skeptical about reading any more books in this series.  Going in with low expectations may have helped, but I think this book would have delivered anyway.<br />It's very interesting to learn about Bean's life before he gets to battle school.  It gives the character a whole new depth.  The story of Bean's journey from the streets to helping save humanity is a compelling one.  And it also is a great complement to the story told in Ender's Game. <br />Anyone who liked Ender's Game will probably enjoy this as well, and even if you haven't read Ender's Game, I would recommend this.  When you finish, you will probably want to read Ender's Game which is also a wonderful book.  If you have read Ender's Game, reading Ender's Shadow will make you want to read it again.	2003-03-31
US	41132002	R1R7WL1R5KVBZZ	0812565959	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Same great characters, solid story	In Speaker for the Dead and Xenocide, you get a few small glimpses of what Earth was like after the Formic Wars.  In Shadow of the Hegemon, you get all the interesting details.<br />While I don't think this was nearly as good as Ender's Shadow, it still has most of the same characters, and it is interesting to see what happens to them on their return from Battle School.<br />The plot is not all that plausible, but Card writes well enough so that you don't think too much about that.  The story is good, and the characters are great.  The only problem that I have with this book (and this series) is I really never saw enough depth from the Achilles character to see him as a real person.<br />I would recommend this to anyone who has read and enjoyed Ender's Shadow.	2003-03-31
US	41132002	RIJCS6JRVYZ7X	0812522397	484188631	Children of the Mind (The Ender Quintet)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	Aftet the first three books in the Ender series, this book was simply a disappointment.  It does not come close to living up to the standard set by those three books.  <br />I wish the series had ended with Xenocide, as this book is not worthy of the series, and Xenocide did not really leave more than one point that really needed to be resolved.  That should have been done in the Xenocide, and we would not have had to suffer through this book.  The manner in which the author brings back Peter and Valentine in this book, as well as the explanation of instantaneous travel through the stars just make the whole thing ridiculous.<br />I gave this three stars only because of the characters involved and the story begun in better books.  If you've read the other books in the series, you'll probably want to read this for closure, but prepare to be disappointed.	2003-03-28
US	41132002	R1T0EFVXXE3IEZ	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Book!	After reading Ender's Game, I was sure that the sequel could not live up to the standard that it set.  However, Speaker for the Dead is every bit as good as Ender's Game, if a completely different story.<br />Card does a great job of creating an entirely new species and describing its behavior and customs as well as defining an interesting human culture on the outpost world of Lusitania.  The interaction between these two is fascinating and an interesting contrast with the story of first contact with an alien species told in Ender's Game.<br />I would highly recommend this book.	2003-03-28
US	41132002	R3SZAG5AB9MFKL	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An excellent story continues	Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead were two of the best books that I have ever read, science fiction or otherwise.  While I don't think Xenocode quite lives up to that standard, it is still a very interesting book.  I thought that it was a bit long and dragged at times, but never for long enough for me to get frustrated with it.  This is a good follow-up to Speaker for the Dead and maintains a lot of the interesting characters and cultures contained in that story, and also introduces some new ones.  If you've read the other books in the series, you'll want to read this one as well.	2003-03-28
US	41132002	RETUDI9XNQN1P	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best books that I've read	This book is a must read for all science fiction fans. The story is interesting and compelling, and the characters are very well written.<br />The book is very well written and the plot is straightfoward so it doesn't ever get bogged down, yet there is enough depth to the characters and the story to be an extremely interesting read.<br />The evolution of Ender from a picked-on outcast to a proven leader is very compelling.<br />Even if you don't like science fiction, this is an excellent book. This is one of the few books that I've ever re-read (after reading Ender's Shadow), and it was just as good the second time.	2003-03-25
US	41132002	R3NCYY28VGAN6B	0451092163	966329377	The Shining (Signet Book)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I almost gave this three stars	I think after reading all the 5 star reviews of this book, my expectations may have been a little high.  <br />The story was very interesting, and as usual with King, the characters were very well written.  I thought that the story dragged a little in the middle after they got to the hotel, but before the snow really started to fall.  But once the story got going, it was pretty fast-paced up to the explosive ending.<br />There are many King books that I liked better than this one, but this is a good story with good characters and is definitely worth reading.	2003-03-10
US	41132002	R19GDD3V5HBP8R	0060185716	151169729	Triggerfish Twist: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Dorsey knows funny	It has to be difficult to write a LIKEABLE homicidal maniac.  But that's just what Tim Dorsey has manged to do in Florida Roadkill, Hammerhead Ranch Motel, Orange Crush, and now Triggerfish Twist.  <br />This time Serge is back together with old pals Coleman and Sharon the summer before their wacky adventures in Florida Roadkill.  We are treated to a little more of the lighter side of Serge as he passes the summer playing house in a typical Tampa neighborhood.<br />Of course, if Serge, Coleman and Sharon are around, then you know things will be anything but typical as plotlines swirl wildly around the neighborhood until crashing together at Jim Davenport's Fourth of July party.<br />If you enjoyed any of the previous three books by Dorsey, this one should be no exception.	2003-02-28
US	41132002	RXGXSHT34EOYF	0671537466	339013638	Streets of Laredo	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Ok, but after Lonesome Dove, a bit of a let down	This book was ok.  I enjoyed the story.  It was nice to find out what happened after Lonesome Dove.  But this story doesn't nearly live up to the standard set in Lonesome Dove.  I think Call without Gus just doesn't work quite as well.<br />I probably would have liked this better if I hadn't read it right after Lonesome Dove.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R1DTGHWPX1CMO3	0671001167	206100439	Dead Man's Walk (Lonesome Dove)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Story	This was a good story. After reading Lonesome Dove, it was interesting to read about some of the background that led up to it.  <br />I really enjoyed this story.  The only thing that might have made it any better would be if I didn't know that Gus and Call had to survive the Walk because they were in Lonesome Dove.<br />While this is still not in the same class as Lonesome Dove, it was definitely worth reading.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	RJXHGJ2JNWIR	0515090212	859629332	The Lieutenants: Brotherhood of War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not usually my thing, but...	I just picked this up one day at the book store because I was looking for something different.  I was not disappointed.  The Lieutenants was very interesting, and well written.  <br />This wasn't a &quot;page-turner&quot; where you just had to find out what happened next, but the characters and situations were so engrossing that it was a very quick read anyway.  I didn't expect to enjoy this as much as I did.  I will probably read at least the next book in the series, if not the entire series.<br />I would recommend this book even if you are not a big fan of military fiction, and if you are, then I'm sure you'll definitely enjoy it.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R1QSMLNRY9JDTZ	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well Done	I don't know enough about the period that The Alienist is set in to know whether or not Carr's picture of New York at the time is accurate or not, but the important thing is that he makes the reader believe that it is.  This book was very well written and it really makes the reader feel like a part of the story.<br />A friend recommended this to me or I never would have read it.  This book is definitely worth reading.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R23C2GQR562ERZ	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book has it all	I have never read a Western before, and probably don't want to ever again because there is not much chance that it could live up to this story.<br />This story has it all, action, adventure, comedy, romance, sex and violence.  The characters are all very well done.  The contrast between Gus and Call is fascinating.  I couldn't put this book down.  Great book!	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R6KI50NWYB7OI	0671020641	99455039	Comanche Moon (Lonesome Dove Story, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Bridging the gap between Lonesome Dove and Dead Man's Walk	This was the best book in the series besides Lonesome Dove.  Maybe because it saw the characters really evolving into what they would become in Lonesome Dove.  It might deserve 5 stars, but I wouldn't feel right giving it the same rating as Lonesome Dove, as they are not in the same class.<br />McMurty has written a great series, but it might be hurt by the fact that the best book by far was the first.  In any case, this was a good book and definitely worth reading.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	RV0QNL5K2Y2LI	0061012513	317368412	Storming Heaven	Books	3	2	2	N	N	About the same as Rising Phoenix but w/o the great premise	If you liked Rising Phoenix, you'll probably like this as well.  As a light read, it's ok.  But again, Beamon just isn't very likeable or believable as a hero or the kind of super cop you'd expect from a story like this.  <br />The premise of this doesn't come close to being as good as Rising Phoenix, but the author does a good job of hooking the reader early in the story because you really have no idea what is going on, but the early events make you curious enough to want to find out.  However, once the church gets into the picture, the story falls apart a little.  The church just isn't very believable.  And that and Beamon together is just a little too much.<br />This is just about on par with Rising Phoenix, so if you liked that, I suppose this is worth your time as well.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R3W3AOT80SH6H3	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good continuing story	While it's hard to compete with Ender's Game (which I think Card did pretty well in Ender;s Shadow), Card manages to continue the story begun there with another exciting chapter of the political and military intrigue surrounding Ender's jeesh on their return to earth.<br />After reading Speaker for the Dead and Xenocide, the reader is left to wonder what went on back on Earth after Ender left.  The Shadow series does a good job of telling that story.<br />If you read the other books in this series, you should like this one as well.  Hopefully, the next one will continue a good story and not take the enormous step backwards that happened in the original series with Children of the Mind.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	RJ1QF2VWF71KV	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another good story	Carr once again does a great job at transporting the reader to a very believable depiction of New York around the turn of the century.  <br />While I don't think this was quite as good as The Alienist, it is still very good.  The characters and dialogue are both interesting and well written.<br />The biggest problem that I had with this book was Stevie using &quot;what&quot; in place of &quot;that&quot;.<br />If you liked The Alienist, I'm sure you'll enojoy this as well.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R3FOEMDH12YDKJ	0061012491	321782752	Rising Phoenix	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good premise, only ok story	I thought the premise of this book was very interesting and that is why I decided to read this.  However, the story that was delivered around that premise is only just ok.<br />Beamon is a little tough to believe as a hero or mastermind.  He really doesn't do any of the work himself anyway, he just takes the credit.<br />This book is ok, mostly based on the premise and the moral implicatons of it.  If you don't analyze it too much, it's not bad.	2003-02-25
US	41132002	R1T6WPNMI0R2O5	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Much better than the Summons	This is much better than his last few legal thrillers (The Summons, The Bretheren...), but I didn't like it as much as A Painted House, and it's definitely not as good as many of his earlier novels.  But, I really enjoyed reading it. The story is fast-paced and interesting.  The characters are well written and likeable.<br />This reminded me a little bit of The Rainmaker with the inexperienced newcomer, shady characters, big corporations, and big, big money.  The story seemed a little unrealistic, but that may just be because I don't live in the world that it is set in.  Also, there were a couple of loose ends in the story that were not resolved to my satisfaction, but nothing so important that it would ruin my overall impression of the book.<br />If you're a Grisham fan, I'm sure you'll enjoy this.	2003-02-24
US	41132002	R13W578OWYIPMQ	0879516801	326204485	Footsucker	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Should have been called Shoelover	I finished this book after many trips to the library on my lunch break because I was too embarrassed to check it out and have people I know see me with it. Despite a lot of lip service that the protaganist pays to being a \\"foot and shoe fetishist\\" and not being interested in the shoes without the feet, his actions make it clear that it is the shoes that are the focus of his admiration, and the feet are not much more than a means to display the shoes he finds so compelling. I mean, he has an entire collection of shoes, he steals shoes from women who leave them in public.<br />What plot there is in the book is flat, very poorly developed, and all too conveniently wrapped up. While there is much exploration of the main character and his interests and motiviations, there is little or no depth to any of the other characters in the book, especially Catherine, whose feet the protaganist is smitten with. However, that may be intentional by the author because it is her feet, and nothing else about her that so transfixes the protagonist (I don't think I ever caught his name). Also, there is a lot of historical garbage about feet and fetishes that is superfluous, and often simply disgusting. There is a very small twist at the end that I thought was fairly interesting, but it didn't make up for the near complete lack of any attention to plot development.<br />All in all, if you have a shoe fetish, you'll probably find this book very compelling just because of the fetish aspect. If you have a foot fetish, you'll probably find it interesting for the same reason, although it's probably not exactly what you might expect. For anyone else, you'll probably just think the whole thing is strange.	2003-02-21
US	41132002	R2SEH4C6WQV3Z7	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Starts better than it finishes	When I first started reading this, I thought it was going to be very good. The set-up was very interesting, getting to know the protagonist, and his situation and background. There was enough science to make it seem believable, but not so much to make it slow down the story.<br />However, when the story got going, I thought it fell apart somewhat. There were many times when the characters did things that just didn't seem to make much sense based on the situation. And the main conflict just didn't keep me as interested as I had been leading up to it. <br />Also, I'm not a big fan of illogical coincidences that play a crucial role in the plot. Like Jack having written the code that his wife's company was using, it was a little too convenient. I think the story would have worked much better if that had been presented differently.<br />Finally, the end seemed to drag on quite a bit. I felt like I knew pretty much what would happen, but it took too long getting there.<br />Overall, I thought the premise was very interesting and the characters were good, but the ending seemed a little predictable and it was too slow. I enjoyed reading it, but the beginning made me expect more from the end than I got.	2003-02-20
US	41132002	RDMEFHWKYTMZ5	0380732343	161050730	Hammerhead Ranch Motel (Serge Storms)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Good follow-up to Florida Roadkill	I enjoyed this book almost as much as Florida Roadkill.  About the only difference was that with Florida Roadkill, I was pleasantly surprised that I liked it som much.  Serge is back, chasing the money that was the focus of the first book, but again gets sidetracked in many other funny situations.  The characters are well done, the plot is a little hard to follow at times, but always tied together very nicely.  I would recommend this for anyone who enjoyed Florida Roadkill.  If you haven't read Florida Roadkill, I would recommend it as well.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R5YG15CI7QV6E	034543076X	138364901	Manifold: Time	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Don't waste your time	This book was terrible.  The characters were lousy and I didn't care about any of them.  The story was slow and boring.  And the science was just too much.  I know, it's supposed to be &quot;hard&quot; science fiction, but if you like it that hard, I'm sure that there are some science textbooks out there that would have a better story and much better science.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R2AWXVQ3ICRELE	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	50/50	I don't normally read short stories, but I liked the summary that I read of the Langoliers, so I read this book.  The Langoliers was pretty good, but it ended up being the next story that I really enjoyed.  Secret Window, Secret Garden was very good.  The other two I didn't like much, the Sun Dog, especially, I had to struggle to finish.  I would definitely recommend it for the first two stories, but the other two bring down my overall impression.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R2UV5Q8D2CJGKO	0385491387	447660358	Legal Briefs: Short Stories by Today's Best Thriller Writers	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Nothing special	I was somewhat disappointed in this collection, as I had not read anything by any of the authors other than Grisham, and was interested to see if there were any others whose novels I might enjoy.  But although most of the stories were solid, and kept me insterested until the end, none of them had a very memorable or very satisfying conclusion.  Moreover, at least two of the stories seemed to have no ending at all, rather, they just stopped.  I wouldn't recommend this unless you already know that you're a fan of one or more of the authors, and even then, I would have to guess that their novels are better than what is found in this collection.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R3I4IXZXZTTF35	0451456866	99150218	The Last Legion	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Interesting plot	This book was ok.  I liked the premise and the plot.  But the characters were a little thin.  I never really found much to identify with any of them.  Also, the slang and culture in the book seemed to made up and forced.  Because of this, it was hard to read at some points.  I'll probably read the next one in the series, but if there isn't much improvement, I might stop there.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	RV8WEH8RJY4SD	0451456874	388497888	Firemask: Book Two of the Last Legion	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Better than the first	I liked this book better than the first in the series, which I thought was a little too underdeveloped.  The characters in this one were developed a little better, and I thought the interaction with the Musth made for a more exciting story than did the conflict with the Raum.   But the book still had problems with the culture and slang that seemed made up and forced, but maybe that is just a personal preference.  This one at least made me want to read the next book.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R1K0SL4N9ZEH9B	0441008860	77366993	Divine Intervention (World Realities Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good book	I had never heard of Wharton or this book when I picked it up in the bookstore, so I considered it a ...shoot, but I liked the premise.  It wasn't quite what I expected, but I really enjoyed it.  I think some of the characters were a little thin, and I would have liked to learn more about the society it was set in.  But I thought it was interesting how the history was presented alongside of the story and how it came together at the end.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R1721M12F9Q26	0380732335	643428545	Florida Road Kill: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly good	I had never heard of Tim Dorsey before reading this book, so I wasn't expecting too much.  But I was pleasantly surprised, this was a fun book to read.  The story is great, as long as you can keep up with the author's frenetic pace.  The characters are well-developed and hilarious.  I found myself laughing out loud at several points in this book.  I would recommend it to anyone looking for a laugh, and especially if you live in Florida.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R3L4R95YD96DS5	0451456882	972533067	Stormforce: Book Three of the Last Legion	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Not as good as the last book in the series	This was ok.  I was hoping with the second book that this series was heating up a little bit.  But I think this one slowed down a little bit and was not as exciting as the last.  There was still plenty going on, and I did like the book, but I was really hoping for more.  I'll probably keep reading this series, but I hope the next book improves on this one.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R1GN5HFUHG5TJS	0446527084	184357766	Fallen Dragon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Can't wait for more from Peter Hamilton	I didn't know if this would be good, like the Reality Dysfunction, or bad like the sci-fi mysteries from Peter Hamilton. I was happy to see that he had continued with good technological science fiction. The technology in this book, as in the Reality Dysfunction is very well presented, and seems very believable. Also, the cultures and characters are very well developed and interesting. And if that wasn't enough, there is an interesting twist at the end that I didn't see coming.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R5DPB32YGI945	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Yawn!	This book was interesting enough to keep me reading it, but only just.  It was a little slow.  When something did happen, it ended up being a big build up to something boring.  There was never anything that seemed particularly exciting or interesting that happened.  And none of the characters was all that interesting either.  I was disappointed.  Unless youu're just a die-hard Stephen King fan, I can't see any reason to read this.  There are plenty of better books to be read, and also plenty of better King books.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	RXUGQHOP3XICZ	0451156609	803978188	The Tommyknockers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good read	I enjoyed this book.  While it was long, and a bit slow at parts, there were always plenty of interesting things going on.  All the characters were well written, as is usually the case with King, and the plot was interesting.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	R1WZG5PQP8KW5U	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I can't believe I didn't read this sooner	I really enjoyed this book. Despite it's length, I never felt like it was too slow, and was always eager to keep reading. The characters are all very well developed. I really liked how much time was put into setting things up before the real action began. You really got a good feel for the characters and who they were BEFORE getting involved in the main story, which I think was important. I'm glad I read this book, and would recommend it.	2003-02-18
US	41132002	RJOHJ68KC5UE2	0060185775	471094057	Orange Crush: A Novel (Serge Storms)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I think Serge is better when he knows who he is	I really enjoyed this book, but probably not as much as the other two.  I will definitely read the next one.  I think the plot in this one was a bit thin, and some of the characters were not very well developed, but overall, it was a good book, interesting to read, and very funny.  I am a little curious about where the $5 Million Dollars is, though, as that was not mentioned in this book.  Also, what happened to Serge to cause his amnesia?  I would have liked a little more information on that.  Maybe some of that will come in the next books.  Either way, this book was funny and worth reading, but I think Serge comes across much better when he knows who he is.  In this book, he almost seems like a different character.	2003-02-13
US	41132002	R2TXVCXTFDFUMN	0515132039	337997818	Guest Shot	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Terrible	...the premise of this book was very interesting. However, it seems that the author thought his job was done once he came up with the premise, failing to deliver a decent story around it. Every conclusion that the detective makes is reached using very sketchy logic, and is further hampered by the author's clumsy attempts to explain it to the reader. How many times has anyone ever told you they had great tickets to something, \\"in Row B?\\" It seems to me that most people would say the second row. Also, the \\"MG\\" is very carefully shaped into a certain kind of person, which is all abandoned suddenly for no legitimate reason. The love story was ridiculous. Worst of all, though, was that the author had the \\"MG\\" kill an innocent victim rather than leave the reader to wrestle with the moral questions involved with the situation. I saw no reason, other than the author wanting the reader not to sympathize with the \\"MG\\" to add this victim. Overall, not much that happened in the book was plausible, and though that is the case with many books, this one made it difficult even to pretend for a short time.	2002-03-18
