US	41147161	R1QZ00TDW7IZI6	1573223220	486194716	Jesus and Yahweh: The Names Divine	Books	5	51	77	N	N	Rabbi Harold's Dark Struggle With God	Harold Bloom has now written his most important work - the book of his life upon which not only his own soul stands in an eerie kind of judgement but so also does the soul of humanity and even God, whether or not God has condescended to exist.  I would say that this book is the summation of all his other books, a grand summary of his spiritual and aesthetic career but that would not be accurate.  Let us say, rather, that as Father Death comes for the Good Professor a concentration and consummation of his spiritual aspirations and struggles and his literary powers comes into being.  Bloom has had his game.  He has pontificated about things human and divine, he has sneered at his enemies in the School of REsentment, he has fathered forth readers and writers (such as the eminent Camille Paglia) and now he has to pay the piper. <br /> <br />He describes in this book waking up from nightmares of Yahweh after midnight.  He \\"gloomily and silently\\" walks downstairs where he sips tea, eats black bread, and reads wides swathes of the Tanakh and other Jewish and Christian writings. <br /> <br />For those to whom Bloom is a kind of cultural hero - the heretic Rabbi of all of us rebel readers - a dark cloud gathers over the words of thhis book while we contemplate an endlessly enigmatic Jesus of Nazareth and a catastrophic Yahweh. Bloom returns to his origins in every sense of the term origins.  He has been a Gnostic but now, this late in his and universal history he returns to the Covenant he can never trust and stares at his God and antagonist in the face. <br /> <br />I give this book five stars for Harold Bloom's doom-eager spiritual courage, for the sense of devastation I feel while reading his book, and for a provocation his book contains which is greater than the ages though not, of course, greater than the Ancient of Days.	2005-10-12
US	41147161	RWEJQKXSKFZ9Y	0897893794	448981858	Spitwad Sutras: Classroom Teaching as Sublime Vocation	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wisdom Literature For Our Era	I am almost (but not quite) speecheless before the splendor of this sweet, sharp tome \\"The Spitwad Sutras\\".  We can only hope that it will turn out to be a mere handful in the Long Discourses of Robert Inchausti. \\"The Spitwad Sutras\\" are not for teachers only, they are existential explorations and tests that dig deep right into the bloody heart of the human matter.  Whoever you are, whatever you are, whatever you want out of life you will find that Professor Inchausti has unlocked the back door of your soul and snuck down into the basement to see whatever there is to see. <br />Life contains something merciless within it that forces us to meet people we would not meet,do things we would not do, and think thoughts to appalling and unacceptable for our puny human minds which prefer to cling even to the agonies of our private fictions (Life happens while we are making plans, as John Lennon said).  Robert Inchausti discovers all of that and more, and he says so.  Wisdom is born out of the crushing of our adolescent self-romanticizing expectations and our initiation into a brighter more impredictable world where the only final rule is discovery itself. <br />Professor Inchausti writes with a terrifying and unacceptable honesty combined with a dry and deep compassion for the human scene as he observes it.  If you are a police officer, a tired business men, a disillusioned political activist, or even a garbage collector you will find much to savor in these pages.  He has seen the world through your eyes but he has gone much furthur, he has said what he has seen with the utmost clarity. <br />If you are drug counsellor, a computer programmer, or even a would-be writer brooding darkly over the human condition with all of its reckless inaccountability this book is for you. <br />Are you a human being?  Read \\"The Spitwad Sutras\\".  I'll return to these pages often while hoping against hopes to see the next installment of the Long Discourses of Robert Inchausti.	2005-08-26
US	41147161	R35305UUMQDAKV	157075344X	124499657	The Raft is Not the Shore: Conversations Toward a Buddhist-Christian Awareness	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Buddha's Sacred Heart and the Long Discourses of Christ	I am not an expert in Buddhism but I have a long familiarity with Catholic and non-Catholic forms of Christianity. Recently, feeling the spell of the East I chanced upon this book \\"The Raft Is Not The Shore\\" consisting of a disciiplined and graceful dialogue between the Buddhist monk Thich Naht Hanh and the Catholic wunder-priest Daniel Berrigan.   <br />I guess the first thing to amaze me was the great common spirit which both men shared.  In part this spirit is due to a basic political radicalism of a firm but fair leftist orientation.  But as I payed close attention I noted that the common spirit largely came from their religious orientations.  Without a hint of the kind of shame for their own religions that sometimes substitutes for genuine ecumenism between faiths they spoke from what I can only call an uncanny core that they both shared. <br />In my opinion the Buddhist monk understood Christianity better than the Catholic priest understood Buddhism but the air of relaxation, grace, and openheartedness could not be faked.  This little book is one little step on the road to human understanding, and it gave me a great deal of joy.	2005-08-26
US	41147161	R15X8W8Y8UF32S	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	1	14	27	N	N	Quest A Little Furthur, The True Secret Has Not Been Discovered Yet	My review is only for people who are questing for the real Holy Grail and have the dim suspicion that this book does not quite know about it.  The problem with the gentlemen who wrote \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" is that they seem to have an automatic contempt and suspicion aimed towards actual historians. Actual historians have taken \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" and totally destroyed it; they have cut it to pieces until not one shred of it is left to be connected to another.  Real historians have attacked the book in both its methods and conclusions.  But for some reason so many people prefer to ignore and even mock or hate the people who love real history, have loved it since they were children, who spend day and night (even in their sleep!) savoring every last detail and every last mystery or puzzle real history throws up at them.  There is a kind of reverse snobbery operating in people's minds that makes them have a knee-jerk anger towards the \\"experts\\" when in fact all an expert is is someone who loves a subject matter so much they have submitted themselves to that subject's disciplines, rigors, and, yes ,mysteries, in order to learn as much about it as they can.  Why hate and fear someone who knows more than you do about the methods and conclusions of any given subject matter merely because their passions have carried them furthur than you on that specific subject?  This does not mean a non-expert could not do the same.  One could put the speculations of books like \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" to the  side and take up an honest interest in real history working real hard to learn its disclipines.  Then, one day, one could turn around and ask the perfectly honorable question like \\"What Jesus ever married?\\"  One would then be obliged to use all of the critical methods one had acquired when searching into the question.  Now many people will continued to treat \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" and works of fiction like \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" very seriously and of course they have the right to if they wish even though the spirit of wisdom and knowledge - the true Sophia - would point them in better directions.  But some of us are not going to stand for it.  We are sick of the madness and spiritual fraud in the contemporary world and we will orientate ourselves to more honest, rigorous, and, yes, difficult spiritual discipliines.  We will continue our own quests for the Holy Grail and the enigmas of Jesus of Nazareth in more arduous but profitable directions.  For readers who are honestly questing for the Holy Grail I recommend the novel by Charles Williams \\"War In Heaven\\" a suprizing thrilling read that tackles the subject matter from a unique perspective.  Charles Williams is sui generis.  When they are done with that I also suggest \\"The Holy Grail\\" by Richard Barber.  Thank you for your consideration.	2005-08-09
US	41147161	R2A2190PH6WEUA	0449130703	24584033	The Number of the Beast	Books	1	7	24	N	N	Beastly	Heinlein is the third worst writer who ever lived surpassed only by L. Ron Hubbard and the Queen of Sham herself, Ayn Rand.  Only computer geeks and junior high nerds regard Heinlein's work with anything like awe.  The rest of us have to go easy on the stomach the rest of the day, merely when his name is mentioned. <br />For one thing his dialogue is protractedly dull - like watching a fly bang against a light-bulb a hundred million times.  It is worth nothing; it contains no philosophical or stylistic purpose and I am convinced Heinlein wrote dialogue that way in order to high his basically shallow view of the world behind such endless drisk. <br />I am convinced that Heinlein had a geek's approach to sexuality.  Only a geek could contrive to write the essentially meaningless and ignorant stuff about sex he actually wrote.  He lacks all of the tragedy of romance, the beauty, the heart-break, the confusion, and the fretful joy that we find in real sexual relations.  It's not surprizing to me that Heinlein plays games with incest in his works- he is a man who was so completely out of touch with reality that he could write about incest as casually as he did. <br />His characters are as lifeless as cardboard figures touched up with just enough humor or \\"personality\\" to disguise their essentially dead natures. <br />Anyone who wants to read very good science fiction should read writers like Gene Wolfe, R. A. Lafferty, Stephen R. Donaldson, Jack Vance, Frank Herbert, Cordwainer Smith, or Avram Davidson.	2005-07-16
US	41147161	R2GBHBBY7U9VI4	074344647X	879310557	The Crow	Books	4	6	10	N	N	The Goth Fantasy	There is a kind of moral despair that a person can give themselves over to - a willing step into the abyss of destruction and self-destruction embodied to a near pitch of perfection in J. O'Barr's masterwork, \\"The Crow\\".  As I read this graphic novel I was often moved by the fatal unanswerability of the work. \\"The Crow\\" is a violent assertion of the negativity at the root of our being so fierce Mr. O'Barr seems to be saying there is no healing response, or suasion, or argument in replied that either God or humanity can possibly make. It takes the famous line from Shakespeare, \\"Cry havoc and let loose the dogs of war\\" and pushes it past an ultimate extreme. <br />The Crow is an authentic goth, adolescent fantasy full of that mysterious blend of beauty, wit, and cataclysm that contrives a spirit of utter invulnerability in the midst of utter vulnerabilty, a psychodynamic that is dreadful to experience in real life but makes for fascinating and un-nerving reading.  Some how the Crow suggests that we the readers are guilty of the murder of his beloved; only the children our innocent.  The rest of us are all contaminated by the central trauma of the story. The Crow goes a step beyond the Jobean question that haunts most of us \\"Why did God ALLOW such evil . .?\\" and replaces it with the final ruin of an assertion \\"God, you bastard, you did it.\\" <br />\\"The Crow\\" is not just an adolescent fantasy, it is a fantasy for intelligent, poetic adolescents, would-be Hamlets in an Elsinore that is as large as the cosmos. <br />The art-work is superior.  There are certain expressions in the Crow's eyes that required great vision and great technical skill; eyes that contain the insanity of grief, the purity of hatred, and a wit that is hazardously free of all restraint. <br />I hope more readers will give themselves over to this masterpiece, a work that seeks to destroy all perspectives.	2005-07-12
US	41147161	RUHQFQCOFA88G	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	2	16	40	N	N	Pull the log out of your own eye first before attending to the spec in your brother's	This book is entirely misleading. Paul Johnson employs one of the dirtiest tricks known to humanity and very common in the political world - he picks a triple handful of intellectuals he doesn't like or disagrees with and digs up the darkest or absurdest material about them he can find.  I would have been a bit more impressed if he had chosen intellects or historical figures he revered and subjected them to the same dirty treatment.  Where are Mr. Johnson's favorite writers, popes, theologians, political philosophers and what all.  But it still would've been a mugs game and not worth much more beyond entertainment value except, perhaps, to affirm what all mature readers ought to know by now - we are all sinners.  Big deal.  Welcome to the real world, folks. <br />Mr. Johnson does a singular disservice by his idiosyncratic use of the word \\"intellectual\\" by which he can push forward his smear campagain against intellectuals whose ideas bother him and white wash intellectuals he approves of. <br />His treatment of Evelyn Waugh is absurd.  Mr. Waugh, contra Mr. Johnson, was most definitely an intellectual and he had his own ideas about how the world should be run.  Mr. Johnson does not take seriously Waugh's roster of sins which include an almost overbearing arrogance, the basic innability to admit when he was wrong, discourteousy to friend and foe alike, and a callous and ostentatious flaunting of wealth which would have won him the censure of the writer of the Epistle of James. <br />I'll give Mr. Johnson's tabloid journalism two stars instead of one because it does have its entertainment value. Mere entertainment always has charm especially when wisdom is lacking.	2005-07-11
US	41147161	R2XLD6QI5CJ6P4	0375420843	313531553	Break, Blow, Burn: Camille Paglia Reads Forty-three of the World's Best Poems	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Broke, Blowed, And Only Slightly Singed	I am not sure what the point of this book is.  Ms. Paglia has far better things to do with her precious time then writing charming and instructive commentarys to the Golden Oldies.  I wholeheartedly share her alarm about the current near-death of poetry reading in America but I feel quite strongly that some other book will have to do the job of saving the golden art. If this book encourages more people to read poetry (including college students and would-be rebel rock stars) than it will serve a certain purpose but Ms. Paglia would best fulfill her vocation by giving us all what we've waited for : the second volume of \\"Sexual Personae\\". <br />Why does she so monstrously claim these are the world's best poems?  I do not see the works of Li Po or Baudelaire, Dante or Basho.  \\"Woodstock\\" contains a great and sorrowing power but is it worthy to stand alongside work by Emily Dickinson? <br /> <br />And why on earth am I even bothering to write all this.  I will get to the point:  Ms. Paglia, quit f---ing around and twiddling your thumbs and posturing in the mirror all day long: give us what you know we deserve, volume two of \\"Sexual Personae\\". <br /> <br />Thank you.	2005-06-01
US	41147161	R1JK6HBK78M1EA	1566565529	462605189	The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions About the Bush Administration and 9/11	Books	4	16	22	N	N	The Complexity of the Truth	Many people have accused this book, \\"The New Pearl Harbor\\" of being a variety of the genre conspiracy literature and an example of that twisted mode of thought conspiratorial thinking. Such people do so in ignorance.  Most conspiracy literature is profoundly lurid and sensationalistic, overheated, paranoid in feel, and given to grandiose pronouncements that make the phrases of certain horror writers (like H.P. Lovecraft) look like the balanced and serene cadences of Augustan poetry and prose.  This book is not like that.  Most conspiracy literature is monomaniacal.  It drives forward without any doubts to its intended, untested, and utterly un-balanced conclusion.  This book is entirely different.  David Ray Griffin, the author, actually offers alternative arguments near the end of his book. multiple models through out it, and a stance that is potentially anti-thetical to his own accusations.  What conspiracy freak - loaded with visions from the X-Files and the writings of David Icke - does that?  Four stars for performing a spectacular service.	2005-05-23
US	41147161	R37ZETK29ECVAP	1893007170	333924409	Alcoholics Anonymous: The Big Book	Books	5	10	21	N	N	Big Voodoo Spiritual Work	This little book is written in a style that contains a dreadful dilating force.  Bill W.'s voice is the voice of what Freud called the reality principle; it is the voice of death and as you listen to it it takes a sledgehammer to the glass and tinselly rubbish of your life.  The prose style is profoundly quirky, funkadelic, and throbs to the rhythms of an iron heart as it pushes and shoves new blood into your abused and decrepit veins.  Sobriety is not a tea-chat.  It is not a milk run or a tupper-ware party.  It is life and death locked in an rutheless struggle for the future of your body and soul.  <br />This book is not just for alcoholics.  It's for any honest spiritual seeker who wants to get blasted into mental health by one of the premier spiritual texts of the twentieth century. <br />Worthy to stand alongside the great spiritual works of humanity: The Bible, the Koran, the Tao Te Ching, the Dhammapada, the Talmud, the Bhagavad Gita. <br />I'd give it ten but I'm reduced to giving it only five stars.	2005-05-15
US	41147161	R3W409PXMPUGN0	0786715103	961150783	Shake Hands with the Devil: The Failure of Humanity in Rwanda	Books	5	37	40	N	N	When The Devil Ruled The World For One Hundred Days	The terrible truth about General Dellaire's book, \\"Shake Hands With The Devil\\" is that it is so well written it takes its place among the literary classics devoted to history such as Julius Caesar's Memoirs and Gibbon's Decline And Fall Of The Roman Empire.  The General shows a profound awareness of literary tradition and wields it ruthelessly to expose the ruin at the heart of global humanity and how it lead to the  brutal rapes, mutilations and murders of almost a million human beings in the country of Rwanda. Corpses are piled everywhere and they fill the rivers and lakes of the country. The odor of death - perhaps the most diabolic odor in the world - is so strong and intense that the General feels it is impossible to physically move. The body of a boy trembles and the General trys to assist the lad but the body crumbles to pieces filled with worms and insects that had caused the flesh to quiver. <br />But there is something truly disquieting beneathe all of the evils and dark strategems described by the General. His book is essentially a work of atonement - but it goes furthur.  He contaminates us all with his atonement because almost all of us (myself especially) are guilty of the genocide. We did absolutely nothing while the political and economic alliances that seek to dominate our world handed the people of Rwanda over to unnatural horrors. <br />Those of us of rational age are guilty.  We must all follow in General Dellaires on-going work of expiation.	2005-05-11
US	41147161	RAX3AJ0F37SM0	0345433009	32508504	Creepy Susie: And 13 Other Tragic Tales for Troubled Children	Books	5	2	9	N	N	I like tihs book ALOT!!!!!!!	My DAD bot me this bookits great!!!! True to lief!!!! I idetnified with the peepul in it. I like it ALOTALOTALOT!!!!!!!	2005-05-10
US	41147161	R3J5QS107B0V18	1894815653	497377634	The Labyrinth	Books	5	10	17	N	N	It is the world	Sometimes when reviewing books reviewers use such dull and awkward phrases such as \\"incomparable\\", \\" a life-changing experience\\", \\"brilliant\\" and \\"an amazing debut from a writer to watch\\".  They use such phrases either because they are ignorant sods whose minds function like computer programs running on cliches or they use such phrases because they are desparate and almost mute before the excercise of a greater power. <br />Catherynne Valente is just such a greater power. The only sane response to this usurpation of reality disguised as a book is awe, humility, wonder, and gratitude, and other such stock but necessary postures of the soul.  M. Valente has thoroughly occupied the world we live in and transformed it into her own hyper-complex image.  She has done this through a story and a mode of prose that is both highly traditional and highly avant-garded, shaped by arche-types and yet utterly individuated in its intent and achievement. <br />There is something authentically uncanny and alien moving through so many of the obscene and beautiful characters we encounter in this work, an uncanny quality missing in so much of today's fantasy fiction.  This demonstration of faery power is not so much a tribute to M. Valente's imagination or even visionary power as it is a mark of the purity of her will and intention. <br />It takes discipline to ransack the history of the human spirit, siezing every little last word and phrase and image to marry them all together into a heterocosm that turns out to be the hetercosm we all live in. <br />The real question to ask after reading \\"The Labyrinth\\" (for the first time) is: is Catherynne Valente capable of personal and aesthetic growth?  <br />If she is not then we may rejoice to discover a minor writer of major talent who will delight and amaze us in the years to come.  But if she is capable of growth than we are at the birth of one of the major writers of the new century.	2005-05-04
US	41147161	R15G4A7EYV2X4W	0446693790	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Dude, where's your political maturity?	Michael Moore is a profoundly talented comedian with a heart of gold, the nerves of a narcissist, and a brain that has a nice clunky sound but is in serious need of repairs.  This book is furious and fun and furiously funny.  It also represents the political immaturity and narcissism common in the progressive and left-wing radical movement just as sanctimonious fascism is common in the right-wing.  Mr. Moore - and others like him - often sound like they have a problem with authority more than that they are driven by a vision that contains the hope of humanity.  Many of Mr. Moore's utterances in this book sound like the self-entitled rage that comes from abused adolescents towards neglectful or authoritarian parental figures.  Much of Mr. Moore's admittedly inspired rant has the exact tone of a man whose insane simplifications exist to fill an existential void.  What Mr. Moore lacks is a profound sense of the tragedy of history - a sense that comes from contemplating the enormous complexities of the political universe and a necessary immersion in great literature.  He does not seem to understand that the will to power is common to all of us and that if you scratch a liberal you will find a closet aristocrat.  For that reason and many others I say that Michael Moore is no true contender for power.  He spends his time courting Hollywood liberals - the most ignorant of the ignorant - and preaching to a choir.  His heart, however, is made of gold and it is true that God is on the side of the progressives.  But the deeper question must be asked - are the progressives on the side of God?    History, in the most rutheless manner possible, will be the judge.	2005-05-02
US	41147161	R331FS3CKV4J5J	0441009344	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The quest for erotic and personal truth	Patricia McKillip is one of America's best writers and in this book she returns to a theme dear to her heart - the quest for personal identity.  The quest is carried on through language that is so profound and developed one feels like one is hallucinating while reading the story.  Wrapped in clouds of glory, beauty, and mystery one follows the narrator Rois who knows that truth is at the bottom of a well.  Others fall for the mysterious stranger Corbet Lynn in the most superficial way but Rois seeks to penetrate the glamor to the secret within Corbet's courtesy and personal beauty.  This story tells us that the erotic quest is fulfilled in being true to ourselves despite the gnawing logic of the temptations that would seek to mislead us from our chosen path. <br />Patricia Mckillip began writing of these themes with her epic fantasy classic \\"The Riddle Master\\" trilogy. Over time she has transformed herself into a magician of words as good as her contemporaries like Catherynne Valente (The Labyrinth) and Greer Ilene Gilman (Moonwise).  These three crowned ladies are the greatest prose stylists since Vladimir Nabokov. <br />Five stars for Ms. McKillip - each one made of the purest silver!	2005-05-01
US	41147161	R2SP03AUVUSXJB	1932265074	346470998	Wizardry and Wild Romance: A Study of Epic Fantasy	Books	4	6	9	N	N	The Moorcock Crows - A great dawn for epic fantasy	If Michael Moorcock did not exist we would have to hire a committee of sages to invent him.  But because he does exist we must hire the mob to shoot him.  He is that necessary, that vital to fantasy literature as it has developed in the last century.  His prose fictions suck eggs because they were so shoddily executed but he is a great myth maker - who can escape the great albino with the black sword?  Combine that myth making capacity with an arch and angrily self-concious critical voice that does not quit and you have a literary personality that functions sort of like the bad concience of fantasy literature.  \\"Wizardry and Wild Romance\\" is a series of shot- gun blasts of thrills.  Jeff VanderMeer's piece is school-boyish and dull but China Mieville opens the book with the buzz saw roaring and when Mister Moorcock makes his absurd but grand entrance we are in for a treat - a waspish yet sometimes indolently ecstatic praise and condemnation for some of the more serious works of epic fantasy written in history.  Mister Moorcock has the voice of a school master - obnoxious, superior, lazy in its magisterial conciousness as it whacks the world of fantasy into quick form.  There are winners and losers here and the supremely confident Moorcock is not afraid to put laurels on heads (as in the case of Gene Wolfe and M. John Harrison) or cut or bludgeon those heads off (as in the case of the Inklings whom Moorcock despises).  When it comes to Tolkien Mister Moorcock is wrong but he is wrong for all the right reasons.  Somehow the pseudo-Tolkien industry spawned out of the ambiguous shadow of Tolkien forces Moorcock to thrust his school masterly charm aside in favor of a left-wing radical standing up to organized oppression (which, in fact, it is) in the tradition of a Percy Bysshe Shelley tinged by a William Blake.  Peculiarly fierce is his treatment of C.S. Lewis - a minor writer.  Somehow Moorcock is so consumed with his rebel's hatred of sham and inauthenticity he overlooks the few beauties that make Lewis worth reading.  Perhaps Mister Moorcock has Oedipal writerly rivalries with Tokien and his clan.  The book's supreme value is its knowledge of literary history pressed through Moorcock's own imaginative and critical fires - the fires of a fierce and wondrous regard for the creative imagination.  I truly hope Mister Moorcock's sharp and swift little tome changes the world.  Anybody who wants to write real epic literature needs to read it many times.	2005-04-27
US	41147161	R5TTQ0MTQXSKV	1587430878	574019902	Subversive Orthodoxy: Outlaws, Revolutionaries, and Other Christians in Disguise	Books	5	22	39	N	N	Introduction To The International Contemplative Underground	While the fundamentalists and Christo-fascists are usurping the christian tradition and attempting to take over society, an international contemplative counter-culture seethes in the underbelly of our crudely global society.  Throw out all you believe Christianity is and can ever be; dismiss with an imperious wave of the hand all of the Pat Robertsons and Jerry Falwells who falsely claim the name of Christ for their authoritarian projects.  Here, in Doctor Inchausti's book, are the real Christians, revolutionaries and outlaws who eat away at the structures of political and psychic oppression and shake the halls of power in Church and State, Big Media and Academe.  Inchausti unveils with a sort of quiet but passionate and even lightening-like splendor the women and men who lived a bohemian Christianity.  But though their personal vocations made them lonely figures - outcasts and rebels, pariahs to all, something eerie transcended them, a tradition of revolutionary Christianity going back to the enigmatic figure of Christ.  This tradition embraced them in spite of their differences.  There are figures in the book who represent a conservative radicalism (such as Solzhenitsyn) and there are others who are left-wing anarcho communitarians (such as Dorothy Day, the most important Catholic personality of the twentieth century).  This means that this orthodox avant-garde - as Inchausti calls it - is truly transcendent both embracing yet rejecting the grotesque dichotomys in religion, art, and politcs that are killing our world dead.  I am going to give the book five stars because it is an absolutely necessary book that all would-be rebels - Christian and non-Christian should read.  Within the covers of this book is an energy and light that destroys whole worlds of assumptions and discourses.  But I am tempted to give it only four stars because it unjustly neglects some very important figures.  Patrick McGoohan was and remains a Roman Catholic.  He was the creator and star of the greatest television series ever made \\"The Prisoner\\".  That specific series attacked some of the most vital issues of the day and its relevance grows daily after the Cold War and the emergence among the family of nations of a global empire, a rutheless media elite, the dominance of multi-national corporations, the continuing managerial revolution, and a war on terror being waged for elite purposes.  Besides that \\"The Prisoner\\" is the Christian Kaballah, full of all sorts of odd interpretations of the Christian Gospel.  \\"Subversive Orthodoxy\\" is a necessary book, absolutely non-sectarian and non-dogmatic in its appeal to religious and non-religious people.  Read it and behold while your old world disappears and a new one full of terror and promise comes into being.	2005-04-27
US	41147161	R28GFGNPSOO0CE	0802150268	163455241	Nadja	Books	3	10	23	N	N	bright beauty	Andre Breton was a cruel and stupid man.  He was irresponsible in the fullest and truest sense of the term.  If you ever decided to look up the word \\"selfish\\" in the dictionary you should not bother to be surprized when you see Breton's photograph. <br />But even Breton - like all of us - was capable of stumbling across a masterpiece. <br />Nadja is a star.  Nadja is exactly the kind of girl that you would not like to bring home to mom - but you find yourself craving and loving her anyways. <br />Nadja is a grotesque negative print - the kind of print that drives photographers mad. She is as wild as wild gets. <br />Some time ago the diagnosis of \\"hysteria\\" meant something.  That was back in the good old cruel days when mentally ill people were either celebrated or cursed.  Nadja is worth both celebration and cursing.  She is the Marilyn Monroe of surrealist objects. <br />She is deranged, tormented when it does not matter, full of the heat of love.	2005-01-19
US	41147161	R21CZAEPRUXGHM	1887279806	749976457	Kabuki: Circle of Blood	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The rising sun of art	Circle of Blood is a transcendent work of art and David Mack is one the the great artists of our deranged and crazy times.  This work is a revenge tragedy with all of the Jacobean resonances but it creeps up on you like a spider and bites you with the most soft and subtle poisons.  There is a Shakespearean quality to the Circle of Blood - the feeling that we are reading about great events that transcend the dull nothings that make up so much of our lives.  Evil has never before been quite so evil and good ( if it exists at all) has never been so much on the run.  The integration of the plot and the characters and the images the profoundly poetical language is almost perfect.  There are flaws in this epic tragedy so reminescent of Kirosawa's Ran - but I readily forgave them because I understood that I was gazing upon a grotesque masterpiece - a masterpiece that indicted the whole of the corrupt militaristic, politically insane, and economically debauched order that we now live in.  But this indictment is not done with self-righteous fake anarchist whining and rage.  It is a matter of style.  This work is delicate as a feather and as brutal as a car crash.  It smashes you in the heart.  Considering the current corruption of Japan, getting smashed in the heart is a triumph, a horribly beautiful triumph of David Mack's rising sun of art.	2004-12-21
US	41147161	RIMQ22P6LRDQD	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	4	2	7	N	N	$#%@	This graphic novel is not the greatest - it is surpassed by \\"Watchmen\\" and \\"Arkam Asylum\\".  It stands, however, at a cross-roads where the dull-as-a-bunny presentation of Batman (such as we were given in the rediculous television series) is shouldered aside and the psychological madness of the post-modern hero stands forth.  \\"Dark Knight Returns\\" is a tragedy on all levels but the core of the tragedy is the Batman himself who is, essentially, a failure at being a fascist. <br />There is always a link between actual fascism and a parnoia about crime.  It is not an accident that tricky Dick Nixon was a \\"law and order\\" president and it is decidedly not an accident that Ronald Reagan performs caricature cameos in \\"Dark Knight Returns\\".  <br />This graphic novel is three-sheets-to-the-wind shy of true greatness.  It is flawed by bad pacing - a sort of choppiness mars the kind of psychedelic flow we really need from the work.	2004-12-10
US	41147161	R5K0CNT0LT63V	0679728058	315945962	The Vintage Guide to Classical Music: An Indispensable Guide for Understanding and Enjoying Classical Music	Books	3	13	37	N	N	the music of the spheres in words	This is a fine book.  What it lacks in genious it makes up for in pure affability and accuracy.  Lesser books tell you what to believe.  This book merely opens the door and lets you draw your own conclusions.  My only complaint is that this book neglects a good handful or double handful of composers I would like to see covered.  Where is Sofia Gubaidulina in detail?  Where is Valentin Silvestrov or Arvo Part?  I go back to this book often.  This book is like a mistress who never complains and always tells the truth.  I hope that anyone who is interested in that most vital and creative of musics - classical music - will turn to this book.	2004-11-30
US	41147161	R286GRNKI6VR3F	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	1	11	20	N	N	Betrayal of epics	This book is of a mediocrity so profound if it had taken the form of a soft drink it would have burned its way down the throat, boiled the rest of the body to ribbons, and slammed down into the vital interior of the earth just in time to dismantle the continents and threaten all life on earth.   <br />I will confess that I feel a bit of anger towards Mr. Jordan for writing this execrable trash.  But I feel more anger towards that reviewer who claimed that Mr. Jordan was \\"coming to dominate the world Tolkien revealed\\".  The man who wrote such ignorant lines was either full of malice or he simply does not know how to read.   <br />Tolkien's great trilogy was full of transcendent beauty and grandeur.  Its plot was lithe and sinuous and its characters were sharply defined and jumped off of the page to crowd our imaginations.  Mr. Jordan's ponderously dull pseudo-epic has nothing of that. <br />His characters are so flat they make the pavement look like a mountain range.  His characters are so souless they make techno-pop and disco sound like the blues.  <br />I have often wondered how come so many readers fall in love with Mr. Jordan's characters and praise them.  It finally occurred to me that Mr. Jordan's readers have better imaginations than he does.  They are reading the vital powers of their own hearts and minds into Mr. Jordan's dry and dead hollow shells. <br />\\"The Wheel of Time\\" as an epic is utterly insignificant.  I would strongly advise readers who are seeking stronger fare to try \\"The Wizard Knight\\" duology by Gene Wolfe, The Covenant novels by Stephen R. Donaldson, or \\"The Darkness That Comes Before\\" by R. Scott Bakker.  Those three gentleman are the true masters of epic literature in our time.	2004-11-29
US	41147161	R2808QAVW38CE8	0449906299	202519233	Abused Boys: The Neglected Victims of Sexual Abuse	Books	2	8	38	N	N	a heap of rubbish with a diamond at its core	This book is an insult to one's intelligence.  The subject matter is incredibly important and the data conveyed by the book is impeccable and relevant.  But the mode of delivery is atrocious.  It is a book full of cliches.  One would think that the sexual abuse of males would drive us to the outer limits of intelligence and imagination.  This book utterly fails in that drive.  Surely better books exist that deal with this dread topic?	2004-11-29
US	41147161	R2841UGP5U95DF	1931112029	126323364	Albert Giraud's Pierrot Lunaire (New Odyssey Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	the white clown prowls at midnight, midnight prowls in him	I mostly agree with the other reviewer's statements about the quality of the translation but it's the only copy of the poem cycle I got so I will review it.  Pierrot is an archetype and Pierrot struck by the moon and left to reel through a phantasmagoria is even more of an archetype.  Pierrot, the poor white clown, is not merely a victim of human persons he becomes a victim of moods, states of exalted or lowered conciousness, a victim of the moon, at last a victim of himself.  He commits suicide - what else could he do? - but he comes back to haunt the night like a vampire sent by demons to prey on himself.  The images in this dream cycle are lurid, apocalyptic, and - unaccountably but wonderfully - witty.   A witty apocalypse?  Read these poems for yourself.  You will behold at its beginnings one of the strangest movements to sweep ( or should I say creep?) through the arts and letters of European civilization: a deep obsession with the famed commedia del'arte or commedia del'italia.  The commedia del'arte was popular entertainment for centurys; a story of the white clown and other figures such as Columbine and Harlequin. Something aristocratic, child-like, and utterly decadent in the European soul seized on this rustic fun and transformed it into an aesthetic wonderland part ecstatic, part enchanting, and part ominous.  What, after all, does Pierrot truly signify?  And why was the Belgian poet Albert Giraud mad enough to try and hint at it with draggers?	2004-11-26
US	41147161	R3FHBGZ6CGABEK	0399152326	488819459	The Runes of the Earth (Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	At last at Last	I agree with reviewers who claim that this book is a \\"prologue\\" to the Last Chronicles.  It took Mister Donaldson over four hundred pages to get to a place that is genuinely disturbing and interesting. <br />Mister Donaldson's space opera, the Gap Saga, was riddled and bullet holed with moral ambiguities.  \\"The Runes of the Earth\\" makes the Gap Saga look like the work of a fundamentalist demon- possessed by black and white thinking.  Chapter after chapter I was confused and alarmed by all the strange moral tricks Mister Donaldson kept pulling out of his black magical hat.  Mister Donaldson has always been obsessed with ethics (though he claims that he does not write with a message) and that is part of why I love his writings so much. <br />His works contain a rare moral fury and moral color that makes him one of the greatest living ironists - an ironist with an ethical pulse so savage and strong he is practically a prophet. <br />Mister Donaldson is a tragic writer.  This comes from a resolute acceptance of death; a resolute acceptance of the facts. The protagonist, Linden Avery, has her child stolen from her.  Her attempt to regain her child is full of all of the moral brutality that parental love is capable of.	2004-11-19
US	41147161	RDT0Y6E1UO0B	0385487398	477666130	Welcome to My Country: A Therapist's Memoir of Madness	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Art of Vulnerability	Her work is not a work of non-fiction.  She admits that she has changed the identities she has written about and confounded their settings.  Therefore \\"Welcome To My Country\\" should be regarded as a work of fiction.  But that is nothing to spit on.  I must confess that I feel a sense of dread and perverse anticipation when I look back on my reading of this book.  Doctor Slater engages in what can only be called the art of vulnerability.  She peels back the petals of many, many roses until we find, with a bit of shock, that the most central rose is both hers and our own. Her prose is cool but her spirit is warm. The theme of the erotic is constant through out this book and in all of its episodes.  I was bewildered by this until in a sequence that lies near the end of the work she reveals exactly what country we are being welcomed to.  Her own confessions are gut wrenching and are the kinds of expostulations that make me cringe as if I was being compelled to pay ear to the screechings of fingernails dragged across the surface of a black board.  There is a great beauty in this book.  There is also something slightly clumsy and sweaty as Doctor Slater strives to make sense of the madness of her clients and her own madness.  A memoir of madness.  Whose?  I will return to this book often.	2004-11-16
US	41147161	R3RX0OVRJC96JW	1400040213	803195242	The Complete Works (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	33	45	N	N	Servant of the Humane	Montaigne was one of those paradoxical characters who was both utterly lazy and completely devoted.  His essays are like he is.  Lazy, glad (but not too glad), and content to let the blasted world roll by with all of its absurdities and madnesses.  Yet he is also taut and tense, intellectually stimulated and willing to stimulate.  Montaigne was wise because he was one of those rare characters who accepted his own humanity without the need to curse at it, exalt it, make it seem ordinary, and make it seem simple.  I almost wrote that he made complexity look simple; he almost made it look easy.  He did that by have interests that were as broad as that most capacious of faces - the face of the universe.  But add to that Montaigne's central conviction that in the sight of God all things are small and you begin to get at the unobtrsively strange and humane part of his art.  He combines (in his interests) things that are profoundly trivial and things that are profoundly - ah - profound.  Montainge has been described as a cheerful sceptic and no few harsh and ecstatic souls have been outraged by such a combination.  But his cheer was based on the fact that he was both a sceptic and a man of faith - a man of faith before this dreadful age (the age we live in) settled in with its grand bifurcation between the assertive intellect born in the Renaissance was left to battle the pseudo-faith of the fundamentalist Christians.  Montaigne would have been politely bewildered to have to speak to either Karl Marx or Jerry Falwell.  They would have seemed both absurd and absurdly deranged to him.  He was too balanced.    He was and remains a great corrective to our mystical tendencies.  He does not cancel them out but he does smack them in the teethe and put them into order.  He despised that perennial human desire to destroy humanity in the name of a state higher than humanity.	2004-10-17
US	41147161	R1T43CHJ3HGUMQ	1587156040	930950913	The Night Land	Books	4	11	19	N	N	The Human Thing after the end of time.	This novel could be called \\" The Resolute Acceptance of Death\\" and it could also be called \\"The Resolute Denial of Death\\".  For some reason Hodgson believes all of those debased faery tales.  He believes romantic love conquers even death when, of course, considering how many people die every day, romantic love does no such thing. <br />The landscapes and the devil-deities depicted in this nightmare- world of the far future creep down into the nerves and light up all kinds of disturbing non-human lightnings.  We are not merely talking about the destruction of the human race.  We are not also talking about phantoms dredged up from the bottom of the human soul to spook us in the daylight.  Jung and the approved psychologists have no place here.  Something more grave is at stake - the confrontation of a bedraggled humanity with non-human forces that seek humanity's final destruction. <br />I have no sympathy for reviewers and readers who dislike the language - the style of prose Hodgson uses to tell the story.  The language is the utterance of a subtle form of madness - the particular insanity of the Hero who tells the tale and lives it. <br />And the Hero is insane!  It took me half of the way through the book for me to realize this.  Everything about the Hero fulfills the dread shape of the male protagonist beloved to the old pulps and adventure stories in the early part of the century that has passed.  He is occasionally brutal towards the woman he loved; that, combined with an extravagance of manly tenderness towards her tells me that the screws are a bit loose in his head - or too tight. <br />This book describes more of the human condition ( if I may drag that ponderous entity into this little review) than do a hundred thousand essays and novels and plays written by writers who adhere to the strict and ruthelessly exclusive artistic codes of \\"realism\\".  The reason it does so is because Hodgson is something of a deranged mystic who ignores the rationlist stricturesso many other writers of the day obeyed like slaves. I highly recommend this book to any reader yearning to repaint the landscape of her (or his) dreams.  The colors will be vivid and aweful, but at least they will both provoke and endure. <br />	2004-10-17
US	41147161	R3AD6ND52CRW8D	1573222844	663863914	Where Shall Wisdom Be Found?	Books	4	183	205	N	N	Where indeed . . .?	To some degree Professor Harold Bloom has absorbed so much literature he has usurped it.  He can read about five hundred pages per hour and when you consider the fact that he used to read one thousand pages per hour it is arguable that he has actually read more than any other human being in human history.  The resources he brings to bear on his given subject matter in \\"Where Shall Wisdom Be  Found\\" are enormous to the point of absurdity.  But I am not convinced massive erudition alone makes for great literary criticism. The great writer G.K. Chesterton once boasted that he had read a thousand penny dreadfuls (as the trash novels of his time were called)and that he could describe the plot of any of them.  The Great King Chesterton was never defeated.  But it was not Chesterton's odd erudition that made him a formiddable critic and it is not Professor Bloom's erudition that has made him into something of a cultural hero to many.  But the good Professor does have his flaws and in his instance perhaps they do come from his erudition.  For me (at any rate)the Professor's flaws as a writer have finally caught up with him.  Since the wonderful shock of \\"The Western Canon\\" Bloom's prose has suffered from the constant repetition of a double or triple handful of ideas.  We all know what they are -  Shakespeare is the greatest writer ever; Shakespeare's only peers are Cervantes, Montaigne, etc.;the universities have collapsed and fallen into the hands of those scoundrels in the School of Resentment; reading is strictly a solitary activity; and so forth.  The ideas have been recycled so often I have come to doubt each and every one of them merely on principal and to give myself a sense of relief.  The Professor also continues his habit of reciting lists of names - the names of authors he thinks important in various categories - and I have come to believe they function as a mantra of some sort.  I must admit it is terribly tiring to read his constant insistance that reading is absolutely necessary to spiritual growth.  What about great music - rock and classical and jazz?  What about painting?  What about back packing and swimming and spelunking and fencing?  But more importantly I sincerely wonder about the ethics of a critic who implies that the illiterate have hardly any spiritual lives.  There's a sort of intellectual provinciality in such a stance.  The problem with Professor Bloom is not that he has read too many books.  The problem with Professor Bloom is that he has not spent enough time scrubbing toilets, talking to car mechanics, sippping a cool one at a pub, hiking in winter time, and just about anything else to get him out of his capacious but closed head.  His prose has always struck me as being almost ethereal, disembodied, as if he has seperated his own imagination from the redemptive power of pure physicality and the spiritual glory of matter.  Major flaws of the book include the fact that he hardly ever does argue his more provacative points.  This is a failing that goes back to \\"The Western Canon\\" where he threw off shocking sentences like a tired academic re-incarnation of Oscar Wilde.  He has always failed, most of the time to engage the reader with the kind of tightly woven arguments that make for good literary criticism.  His chapter of the Gospel of Thomas is most disturbing.  He admits that he is preaching a Gnostic sermon but such a sermon is undesirable - he has preached it before in other books and what we would all like from him is an interpretation of the Gospel of Thomas that makes its partiuclar wisdom clear (if that particular work actually does have wisdom).  This book, however, is not without its charms.  The Professor's melancholy is in evidence and the self-dramatization of a readerly elite against the cruel ideologues has its amusement value.  His taste for inter-textual perversities remains infectious.  The Professor is a profoundly aggresive (though ethereal) writer and it is a great joy to see that the lion in winter remains a lion.  Bloom has been described as a kidnapper who took hostage the whole of literature and was releasing it bit by bit on his own terms.  I think that that is part of the thrill of reading him - one feels as if the Professor has become superhuman merely by reading and re-reading the whole of the Western literary canon and brooding darkly upon it until the ink is literally oozing out of the pores of his skin.  His book achieves a kind of sublimity that feels like all two or three thousand years of literary quagmires and literary vulcanic eruptions have exploded over that line that divides madness and genius. Harold Bloom is Jacob and the whole of western literature is God and Jacob and God wrestle with each other for a thousand years all night long.  C.S. Lewis once described himself as a dinosaur meaning that he was among the last of a breed that was deeply immersed in the great Greek and Latin writers of Late Antiquity and before.  Harold Bloom occupies a similar place regarding the great European, American, and Latin American writers from the Middle Ages until Samuel Beckett.  What ever happens in this new century to the literary tradition Bloom is the largest embodiment of his name will endure where ever we rebel readers keep reading.	2004-10-09
US	41147161	R3SB3SF8751CPD	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Politicians are still politicians	Read rightly this book will do two things - it will make your blood boil and it will make your blood freeze.  In fact it will do ( as paradoxical as this sounds) both at once.  Just as Rome was not built in a day so the reputation of the Byzantines was not built off of only one work \\"The Secret History\\" by the all too sober Procopius who is mortified to the core by what he knows.   <br />The book will make your blood boil because you will see that in over a thousand years politicians (who always claim to be our servants or servants of God) have not changed.  The only problem they got nowadays is two hundred some years of liberal democracy and its progressive reforms to deal with.  They have to hide more carefully their depradations on the masses; they have to look better.  But the stench remains the same.  These imperial types were practically treated like Gods but they acted like devils (just as they do now) using the official organs of the state to plunder the people, terrify the saintly, and screw over the poor. <br />This book will also make your blood freeze because Justinian and Theodora were acting in a time in which people had a far greater respect (worhship actually) for people in power yet the actions of these two scoundrels teach, essentially, that no one is in charge of the human cosmos.  There is no one among the flesh of the earth we can look up to. <br />The fact that the corruption of Byzantium took place under the watch of the Christian church is particularly disturbing.  Though there were lonely resisters and do-gooders there was no wide-spread protest aimed at these authoritarian thugs who were no better than common criminals (often worse actually) and the vast majority of clergy went along. <br />Mussolini once said that fascism would better be called corporatism and in the arrangement Justinian and Theodora bring about we see the same preferential treatment of the rich and the same use of public causes and goods for private ends.  Exactly the same corruption is now taking place in the so-called liberal democracies of the West. <br />In fact that is one of the supreme uses of this book - and all books of history actually.  We see that history is not some dull and dry subject, some amusing sport for pin-head intellectuals and charmed antiquarians.  History is a life-and-death matter where the fate of humanity is hanging in the breech.  We see that the past is not dead but is alive and breathing down our necks and unless we turn around and look at what is chasing after us from yesteryear we are going to get killed or worse. <br />Five stars for the courageous Procopius.	2004-09-25
US	41147161	R2NEOUKQHPHM9U	0674535812	545373507	Lipstick Traces: A Secret History of the Twentieth Century	Books	1	19	59	N	N	Much Ado About Nada	This book is so inept it makes the writings of Ayn Rand look like the Summa Theologica.  Lipstick Traces is a heap of dust and gas swirling around in the dark about a center full of sound and pseudo-fury that signifys even less than nothing. Marcus' rediculous prostrastion before that testosteroniholic Johnny Rotten is rotten.  Marcus fails to ask himself serious questions when contemplating the pseudo-revolutionaries in the Sex Pistols.  Point: Any fool who sings out loud \\"I am an Anti-Christ!\\" is absolutely not an anti-christ.  The real anti-Christs (like the televagelists, let us say) run around saying \\"I am a *Christ*!\\".  But such obvious points completely pass over Marcus' mind which is obsessively and worshipfully focused on the dark forms of romanticism he seeks to portray.  I have had, for some time, a bit of knowledge in my brain about the dadaists, the surrealists, and the situationists but by the time I got done reading the book I felt I knew *less* than before I read it.  Greil had performed the improbable feat of destroying the subject matter he sought to save.  He succeeds in that dire task by a rambling prose (which some functional illiterates among the book's reviewers call \\"connective\\") that meanders around a thousand tasteless factoids on its journey to a philosophically haunted gazebo in a wasteland disguised as a deranged amusement park.  I am afraid that there is yet to be a book written about the subject matter in \\"Lipstick Traces\\" that does justice to it.  Marcus did, at least, give us \\"The Old, Wierd America\\" a fine and competent book that quietly strips away the bright white optimistic facade of America to reveal the dark and strange culture beneathe, embodied by the likes of the sublime Bob Dylan.  Mr. Marcus has no right to call his tome a secret history of the twentieth century.  His scope is too small.  He leaves out the Wierd movement in American literature embodied by writers such as H.P. Lovecraft, Robert E. Howard, and Clark Ashton Smith.  He neglects the strange and unexpected history of literature's underdog science-fiction.  He seems ignorant of the great autumn of Christianity in politics (Emmanuel Mounier and Jacques Ellul) and literature (Bernanos, Maritain, Claudel, and others).  Besides lacking scope the book - I must say again - is radically incoherent.  It is not enough to drag our imaginations through the squalors and splendors Mr. Marcus writes about - one must manfully press forward towards wisdom, something in short supply all throughtout the book.	2004-09-19
US	41147161	R1JP8T99ERLUBQ	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	5	7	17	N	N	A juggernaut that will roll over the trash epics	Tired of nice dull writers who are busily corrupting us all with highly circumscribed Hollywood-style glitz epics?  Why not read something that will shiver your timbers from top to bottom? Bakker, a Canadian, is paying back a long over-due cultural debt from his fine but boring country to us religion mad, ad-saturated, Disney-fied trash Americans.  Once upon a time we gave the world Herman Melville, Edgar Allen Poe, Nathanael Hawthorne, Emily Dickinson, and H.P. Lovecraft.  America, having fallen into the cruel hands of the multi-national corporations has needed an epic fantasy like the one Mr. Bakker delivers with its rutheless refusal to compromise with the newly acquired (or imposed) American sentimentality, false-populism and any misguided appeal to the corporate corrupted youth culture.  \\"The Darkness That Comes Before\\" is for the big dogs only with its frighteningly rigourous portrayal of war, its cool-eyed grasp of power politics (without any form of sentimentalization, covert or otherwise), its shockingly firm grasp of the complex psychology of real men of power, its frank and tragic analysis of the relations between the sexes, its refreshingly complex feel for religious fundamentalism, and its depiction of authentically disturbing evil non-humans.  His portrayal of the Consult - who are out to destroy the world - is as close to an authentic portrayal of the non-human diabolic as we are likely to get from much epic fantasy: it is at least many light years beyond the rediculous attempts by all the writers for boys.  Those writers act as if they have been watching too much Walt Disney and listening to too many old-wives tales to know real alien evil with all of its imcomphrehensible absurdity and uncanny power.  Mister Bakker also gives us the supreme wonder of an entirely sincere, rich and non-burgeois philosophical interest in his work.  He has stated elsewhere that his philosophical forefathers include Nietzsche, Hegel, Wittgenstein, and others.  His wholemonstrous story does not merely pretend to be interested in the Big Human Questions and Mysteries as all the other trash epics do.  His whole story gives the dreadful feel of moving towards some supreme illumination that will save or destroy humanity and the many aphorisms in the book are not only original but shockingly wise and often profound for a guy his age (35) and from the limited cultural environment of most of what we think as Canada.  What gives, in part, \\"The Darkness That Comes Before\\" its supreme power is its sophisticated sense of tragedy - a sense mostly missing from the trash epics inflicted on us by the corporations.  But Mister Bakker's sense of tragedy is not merely one for the big apocalyptic things like the ruin of humanity - it is true and tender and humane because it is aware of all the little failures and long-suffered fates that mar the beauty of our lives and obstruct the great yearnings of our hearts.  \\"The Darkness That Comes Before\\" hisses and seethes with a profound psychology.  The character of Cnaiur is particularly unsettling due to its moral accuracy.  One thinks of Robert E. Howard's Conan.  But what Howard ignorantly (though spell-bindingly) worshipped Mr. Bakker has come to declare - or, shall I  say, reveal?  The Conan ethos was always too simple to be true, too romantic to be credible but Mr. Bakker's Cnaiur is *exactly* what the real Conans are in their vitals.  Anasurimbor Kelhus breathes with some of the mystique and meaning of Frank Herbert's Paul Atreides but is far more exact his ubermenschean psychology. Kelhus, the hero, is an absolutely repelling figure, a hero-villain, and not just the standard issue \\"anti-hero\\" people ignorantly prattle about when they wish to seem sophisticated about adult themes in literature.   Mr. Bakker's grand design is the first great epic fantasy of the twenty-first century, an important contribution to the form created by William Morriss and carried forward by J.R.R. Tolkien, Henry Darger, E.R. Eddison, Stephen R. Donaldson, Patricia A. McKillip, and Gene Wolfe.  Right now, Mr. Bakker's only living competitors are Donaldson and Wolfe. But they had better make a desperate run for the money!	2004-09-13
US	41147161	R2LSFAC8YLZ741	080959255X	652475340	The Man Who Was Thursday, A Nightmare	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Franz Kafka meets joy,Kafka is shocked by ulitmate evil	A hundred thousand years could go by until the human race finally wakes up the fact that Gilbert Keith Chesterton is one of the great est writers of the sad and bad twentieth century along side of James Joyce, Marcel Proust, Samuel Beckett, J.R.R. Tolkien, Jorge Luis Borges, Mervyn Peake, and, of course, Franz Kafka.  His psychedelic quest-romance \\"The Man Who Was Thursday\\" will shock you - if you have nerves left to be shocked.  If you don't have nerves Chesterton will wave his aesthete's magic wand and create you a new pair of nerves.  The book is not a roller coaster ride through phantasmgoric visions of evil and beauty.  It is a quest of one man to get to that most dreadful of topics - The Bottom Of Things.  The \\"anarchists\\" are everywhere, and like blasphemous termites from a world beyond they are attempting to eat away at the roots of human civilization until it crumbles in flames.  I am often reminded of the sublime fictions of Thomas Pynchon while I contemplate \\"The Man Who Was Thursday\\".  Chesterton, out of magic bag, throws out plenty of paranoia and devilry and fine poetical prose to keep us feeling like we are living in a grade-b version of film noir crossed with a Monty Python movie where all of the actors have sipped their daily quanta of holy water and have sworn comical oaths to the Divinity.  I often wonder if Mr. Chesterton's little psychedelic surprize played any role in influencing Patrick McGoohan ( the world's most under utilized actor) when he created the monstrous television series \\"The Prisoner\\".  There is the same unconventional idea that morality is a form of rebellion in both works.  And Chesterton prizes human freedom at least as much as Mr.  McGoohan does, though Mr. McGoohan is grim and even savage while Mr. Chesterton is almost always \\"gay\\" and humorous even at his darkest.  Speaking of gay I am reminded of Franz Kafka for a number of reasons.  Franz Kafka, apparently, loved the writings of Mr. Chesterton.  Kafka once remarked that Chesterton was so \\"gay\\" it was almost as if he had discovered God.  \\"The Man Who Was Thursday\\"  should be regarded as Kafka's Rescue.  Mr. Chesterton sees all of the things Mr. Kafka does but he sees both more and less.  Mr. Chesterton was, of course, an aesthete. That is to say he was a man who subscribed to Theophile Gautier's idea : art for art's sake.  This was a stance that Mr.  Chesterton carefully concealed from himself but we can see it in his endless poetical discriptions of landscape, the physical features of characters, the psychological revelation ( \\"analysis\\" is a cold word) of characters.  The Great King Chesterton was a complicated man and he gave us a subtly complicated tale.  Five Stars.  I would prefer sevenesterton was so \\"gay\\" it was almost as if he had discovered God.  \\"The Man Who Was Thursday\\"  should be regarded as Kafka's Rescue.  Mr. Chesterton sees all of the things Mr. Kafka does but he sees both more and less.  Mr. Chesterton was, of course, an aesthete. That is to say he was a man who subscribed to Theophile Gautier's idea : art for art's sake.  This was a stance that Mr.  Chesterton carefully concealed from himself but we can see it in his endless poetical discriptions of landscape, the physical features of characters, the psychological revelation ( \\"analysis\\" is a cold word) of characters.  The Great King Chesterton was a complicated man and he gave us a subtly complicated tale.  Five Stars.  I would prefer seven	2004-05-26
US	41147161	R30KM3K6R048L0	0872430804	126828128	Catholic Thing	Books	5	9	13	N	N	intense intelligence, love, strangeness, and a great work	Rosemary Haughton's profound gaze into the incredibly strange world of Catholicism is utterly beautiful.  There are no wiser or more interesting books on this particular religion written in the twentieth century.  Its supreme power comes from a radical negation on her part and a radical acceptance.  What does she negate?  What does she reject?  A world of trash piety and sentimentality that twists the soul, corrupts cognition, constricts the emotions, tames art, and straightjackets our vital powers.  She does not adore the plaster saints.  She is immaculate.  She is no handmaiden of power with all of its seductions, no servant of Christianity as an ideology with all of its blasphemous mediocrity.  But what does she accept?  In a word - the whole human and non-human cosmos.  There is not only nothing human that is alien to Ms. Haughton there is nothing non-human as well.  She is truly Catholic in all senses of the word &quot;Catholic&quot; in her attempt to &quot;love everything until everything is transformed into the kingdom of God&quot; as she describes the true Catholic enterprise.  Ms. Haughton is a true psychologist in the best sense of the term - she is a student of the human soul which ultimately means she is a student of the dangerous but necessary art of getting to know people.  She has gotten to know a grand and slight crazy cast of characters stretching from the problematical dawn of Christian history through centuries of divine folly and human madness up to the near present.  That sublime ego-ist Augustine is lavished more understanding than any other writer has ever achieved along side of figures such as Baron Von Hugel- the last sane man on earth; Heloise and Abelard - bruised in their tragic and tender glory; the real Maria Von Trapp (not the sentimental beauty from the movie &quot;The Sound Of Music&quot;); and a host of political and artistic rebels who cut through doors of iron, shattered chains, and took the kingdom of heaven by force.  For Ms. Haughton, divine love is no pale thing -  impotent, strict, and unearthly.  For her it is a cosmic adventure with all of the perils and hardships implied.  It is the pact and the tension between mortals and immortals, humans and real elves, humans and goblins, earth and sky, and all of reality with its own difficult self.  Ms.  Haughton stresses that Catholicism itself in its own dark vitals is an arduous quest for supreme wholeness, balance, and all of the dark consequences of both the quest and the wholeness achieved.  Love, for Ms. Haughton, has definitely pitched His tent in excrement.  Ms.  Haughton firmly believes that Catholicism is not restricted to Catholicism or even Christianity.  It is a completely human and divine enterprise that official Christianity - particularly in its Roman form - often subverts, corrupts, or destroys.  Her fine book is especially important for people who may be interested in religion (Catholicism particularly) but utterly reject fundamentalism and are also discontent with the banalities, cheap sentiment, and the sheer theological stupidity of at least some forms of liberal religion.  Ms. Haughton believes in the reality of faery tales but they are not the debased and safe faery tales so popularized by Disney.  She tells us the truth - that we are all, like it or not, on a quest for the Holy Grail.  No better book then &quot;The Catholic Thing&quot; by Rosemary Haughton could serve us on our way.	2004-05-21
US	41147161	R1S0WUZ28XGA53	0962344729	656359828	H. R. Giger's Necronomicon	Books	3	11	39	N	N	mediocrity and genius	Mr. Giger did the cover for Emerson, Lake and Palmer's great albumn \\"Brain Salad Surgery\\" and that central image of a kind of \\"Lilith of the future\\" is both an emblem and a counter-emblem of his whole work.  One also thinks of the great creature from the movie \\"Alien\\" blasphemously beautiful in all of its dehumanized phallic grandeur.  \\"H.R. Giger's Necronomicon\\" could be regarded as his Sistine Chapel, the focus of all his work, its origin and its summation.  For many years now I have felt that Mr. Giger's work is full of both mediocrity and genius.  In some odd way it is an exact fusion of the two.  (...)I look at all of those devils and distances of depravity and I am filled with a kind of calm.  His work comforts me - actually - in the way that the work of Norman Rockwell comforts and assures so many others.  Why not?  Edgar Allan Poe was also an absurd blend of mediocrity and genius.  As a technician Mr. Giger is merely competent.  But the skulls the heads and the industry add up to a world mildly beautiful, mildly ugly but stimulating as a kind of Picasso's less significant rebellious cousin.  Definitely worth the look.	2004-05-20
US	41147161	R1FVF8K7BFRMWH	0765309890	329751942	1: The Knight: Book One of The Wizard Knight	Books	4	7	12	N	N	waning of the light of the new sun	Michael Swanwick asserts forcefully that Gene Wolfe is the greatest living writer in the English language. I agree - and who could not after reading Wolfe's major work of the 1980's, the four volume \\"Book of the New Sun\\".  That work contained an almost oriental richness of the imagination that enchanted and disturbed all of the way to the enigmatic conclusion.  With the publication of \\"The Knight\\" the grand master turns his gentle, intelligent and always formiddable powers to the field of epic fantasy - a form created by William Morris and continuing with such major practitioners as J.R.R. Tolkien, Stephen R. Donaldson, Patricia A. McKillip, Henry Darger, and R.Scott Bakker whose \\"The Darkness That Comes Before\\" is the start of what may be the first great epic fantasy of the twenty-first century.  I find Mister Wolfe's work to be one of the most pale and un-exciting in Wolfe's illustrious career, and I say that as a long devotee of both Gene Wolfe and epic fantasy. The world Mister Wolfe summons up is not only less real, less sensuous, less immediate than the worlds of Tolkien, Donaldson, and McKillip, it is, to be frank, less real than the many worlds made popular (often in best sellers)in the \\"trash fantasys\\" today. Able of the High Heart - a fine character - moves through landscapes that evaporate constantly, leaving no taste, or excitement in the reader's mind.  Able's interactions with other characters can contain interest and even pathos such as in his strange and marvellous relationship with Bold Berthold.  But no character stands forth as emblematic of the fantasy in a way that is unforgettable.  The book simply has little mystique and mystique is vital for all great art.  This is surprizing considering Mister Wolfe's not inconsiderable talents at pure magic.  His take on the elves is laudable in terms of effort but I find the creatures to be largely dull.  Rarely do they enchant.  Hardly ever as I read the book did I feel I was in contact with an alien personality - something truly other to humanity, frightening in its otherness and obsessively fascinating.  I give the book four stars because it is still an important work of fiction. Mister Wolfe remains one of the most subtle writers not only in fantasy or science fiction, but, also in literature at large.  His fine psychological acuity is at play in Able's resolute but vulnerable quest for manhood, occasional amorality in the presence of inferiors, and strange almost boyish faithfulness to Disiri, the Queen of the Moss Aelf.  Disiri herself is a complicated critter whose dominion over Able is utterly unbenign - as nature itself is unbenign.  In a sense she has raped his soul and his response to her is at least vaguely familiar to the Stockholm syndrome.  But, he was a boy.  I  look forward to the conclusion of \\"The Wizard Knight\\" with \\"The Wizard\\".  And I wish Mister Wolfe all the best.  His importance to literature and to readers personally is like that of wind that blows from a realm of wisdom where long thoughts are taken, counsels spoken, and deeds resolved.	2004-05-19
US	41147161	R1CPMNAPGFDJOC	1894815645	434824188	Veniss Underground	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Bosch, VanderMeer, and Orpheus on the road to greatness	This fine little dagger of a book should be feared even at the mere mention of its name.  Lesser writers throw out hints that horrors are lurking but often fail to deliver - like those many movie trailers that are better than the movie.  Veteran readers possess this cynical knowledge.  But Mr. VanderMeer is all Bosch with no bosh. The character of Shadrach is like a highland scot and the ruin he seeks to inflict on the Gnostic demiurge-like Quinn shows real psychological insight on Mr. VanderMeer's part.  Despair at the harm inflicted on his beloved fills Shadrach with a real moral fury somewhat similar to what the biblical Samson went through before he tore down the temple of the Philistines.  The archons who rule the underworld show a demonically boyish good pleasure at collecting people's body parts (I will say no more)that ultimately has no rational basis.  The whole apparatus of &quot;collection&quot; in all of its complexity is ultimately founded on absolutely nothing.  That also shows Mr. VanderMeer's psychological acuity and does good credit to his interest in surrealism - that wilted stinky rose that enchants as it even repels.  I am reminded that in &quot;Castle of Days&quot; Gene Wolfe says that science fiction is really just &quot;chrome-plated&quot; fantasy.  I would argue that Mr. VanderMeer is essentially a religious writer but is there any other God presiding over his moral universe other that a demi-urgic Quinn?  I must agree with others that Mr. VanderMeer's language is not great.  It has a definite power of enchantment in it but he has yet to say something as good or sweeping as &quot;A rose is a rose by any other name&quot; or &quot;Juliet is the sun.&quot;  I cannot agree with others who feel that the characters are two-dimensional but I would strongly advise Mr. VanderMeer to re-read the great dramatists like Shakespeare, Ibsen, Moliere, and others; and to attend as many plays as possible.  Mr. VanderMeer's characters have yet to stand up off the page and stride about as gods or devils breathing fire and scraping the stars.  But, of course, Venniss itself is a character, and in it, VanderMeer develops a tradition in fantasy and science fiction in all of its strength.  I give the book four stars and lay odds that Mr. VanderMeer is one to watch.  He is one of America's most important writers along side of Gene Wolfe, Stephen R. Donaldson, Patricia A. McKillip, and Cormac MacArthy.  We will see where he goes in the future.  Buy &quot;Venniss Underground&quot;read it, take many cigarette breaks (you'll need them!) and then sip a fine wine after-wards while the wild world of phantasmgoria fills your soul with dread, awe, and laughter at the greatness of a human imagination.	2004-05-18
US	41147161	R33951QF8F005K	0451450949	390401585	Moonwise	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Moonwise : Like the Wake	Greer Ilene Gilman is one of the most significant writers in the world today and I hope she gives us something new to follow up to or surpass her wonderful classic &quot;Moonwise&quot;. We do not go to &quot;Moonwise&quot; for plot. We go to it for an experience of language that makes us feel as if the roots of psychic and telluric realities have been laid bare. The book can only be compared to James Joyce's astonishing &quot;Finnegans Wake&quot; but unlike the Wake Gilman shifts back and forth from dream conciousness to a more visionary form of conciousness. Long live Greer Ilene Gilman in whose wake the discerning will follow any day!	2002-08-02
