US	41501058	R2OFIPN2O0BE5H	0345455177	247930289	Eve in the City: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Aimless	One-named Eve leaves her conservative,religious, rural background and moves to New York City. She is seventeen with all the immature sensiblities that her age indicates.  <br /> <br />This is my first Thomas Rayfiel novel. The book is billed as a love letter to the Big Apple. I spent years living in a big city and visited NYC on several occasions. I hoped for a depiction of the good that exists in the city ; the diversity that makes the city thrum. Instead, Rayfiel dwells on the seamy, desperate denizens of the city. <br /> <br />Author Rafiel writes well. It seems he wants to write a literary novel here but keeps returning to the plot devices of popular fiction. The result is uneven but intriguing enough to keep the reader interested. <br /> <br />But the biggest drawback to this novel is Eve's unredeeming flakiness. As we follow the processes of her mind, she appears schizophrenic much of the time and without a base of core values all of the time. Rayfiel does not, in this novel, explain the origin of this loss of a life foundation. Eve flits from one loser to another in search of the elixir of life although she knows not where to find it (Sex? Marriage? Elsewhere?) <br /> <br />The supporting cast is just as lost. An illegal alien who philosophizes about the shortcomings of Americans and their language ; fellow barmaids who nave no more clue of life than Eve ; dysfunctional artists ; a policeman ; and a wealthy man with no scruples. It makes for a readable but disappointing book. <br /> <br />The author ties up all the loose plot lines in the end, but leaves no real conclusion to Eve's story. I understand that she is a character from his previous novel, Colony girl. It is possible that novel explains some of the circumstances that created a mess like Eve. But I will not be reading it to find out.	2005-06-12
US	41501058	R3JG5GNG530ZN8	1585676349	422693332	The Unknown Soldier	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Timely Al-Qaeda suspense	The Al-Qaeda terrorist network recruits a brilliant British national and they have specific plans to wreak havoc on their Western enemies. British and U.S. intelligence need to stop the terrorists at all costs. Thus we have the Unknown Soldier. <br /> <br />In this frenetic information-rich world, hot news events change so rapidly that novels about such events quickly become dated and lose their edge. Not so with Unkown Soldier.  <br /> <br />Author Gerald Seymour has been around for many years and it shows in his writing. The plotting of this novel is as smooth and consistent as the Middle Eastern lifestyle where most of this novel is set. While the suspense here is palpable, the action is not forced and the characters don't lose their integerity for the sake of an exciting plot twist. <br /> <br />Don't misunderstand. There are plenty of surprises in this book to avoid boring the reader, but they come about naturally and believably from the beginning of the story to its somewhat startling end. The material (with the exception of an Afghanistan focus, rather than Iraq) is so timely that I found myself more focused on current military actions in the Middle East than before. <br /> <br />Seymour is British and, as such, his plot features British military intelligence as much as American intelligence. This is refreshing. And the book borders on literary fiction as the plotline examines the war on terrorism from both the terrorist view and the Western view. The intelligent reader will enjoy the chance to think. <br /> <br />Readers seeking slam-bang action, larger-than-life heroes and a rose-tinted world with tidy endings will likely not enjoy this novel. This is a book of realistic fiction about a real war in real time highly recommended for those who enjoy quality fiction centered around current events.	2005-04-10
US	41501058	R29EYS1H48NJWF	0156029987	701095379	Vernon God Little	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Too profane in the beginning, too wimpering in the end	Title character Vernon Little is a foul-mouthed teen in a small Texas town when his friend murders 17 high school classmates in a Columbine-like massacre. Vernon's friend commits suicide, the only other witness to the crime falls into a stupor, and Vernon is fingered for the crime. <br /> <br />The story's premise is intriguing and author Pierre wraps a tight plotline around this main character. The plot even leads to page-turning suspense and a tight denouement that is rather surprising. But, alas, after that it whimpers to a weak close. <br /> <br />In Vernon, Pierre has created a character so profane and so unwilling to accept responsibility for his own life that he is unlikeable. Vernon blames his troubles on his single mother. He blames the town's problems on his mother's friends. And he blames the crime situation on poor policework. This protrayal of a troubled teen is likely to be highly accurate. But it hinders this novel. <br /> <br />The author also creates a smarmy villain who is so morally decrepit that the reader will want to strangle him. But, frustratingly, the villain's role in the book comes to an unsatisfying finish. <br /> <br />Aside from the inexcusable profanity that drenches the first half of this book, DBC Pierre shows a fantastic sense of style and humor. Pierre may be a future star author. But this book is not the one that will take him there. <br />	2005-02-15
US	41501058	R3P39P4GNRIPT6	0060726091	302467589	The Reunion: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	What happens here doesn't stay here	What could be more dangerous than keeping seven troubled teens cooped up at a psychiatric unit? Taking those same teens on a camping trip with minmal supervision. That outing haunts their lives forever.  <br /> <br />This book opens in the present time, many years after that outing in 1977. And the personal scars of that event are explored through the now-adult lives of those teens. <br /> <br />Author Sue Walker spins her tale slowly. She tells her story through the eyes of several of the teen-cum-adults. She does a masterful job of capturing their despair, anxiety and fears concerning their troubled pasts. But often her transtion from the thoughts and dialogues of one character to another are not delineated clearly enough ; and the characters' voices are not distinct enough for the reader to know exactly which character is the focal point at all times.  <br /> <br />That said, Walker does an excellent job of keeping vital pieces of the story hidden until the end. There is a strong sense that the stories of the characters will progress to a denouement and there is none of the formulaic gradual exposure of clues to the the crime that is becoming trite in modern novels. This is a big plus. But when one character, by rambling dialogue, lays out the answers to all of the reader's questions, it is a big negative. <br /> <br />This is not a bad book. It is well-written and does carry its plot nicely. But it is also not a great book. The suspenseful promise presented by at the beginning my this review is muffled by slow pacing is slow and vagueness that hampers impact. This is what \\"mediocre\\" reads like.	2004-10-18
US	41501058	R3NQFUUJ97W2SF	0345464982	572756486	Bad Girl: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bad girl? Great book!	Whew! What a ride! Adult readers who enjoy tight, multi-faceted mystery/thriller/suspense novels will relish this book by Michelle Jaffe.  <br /> <br />Las Vegas police criminologist Chicago Thomas is obsessively drawn to solving the particularly gruesome serial murders of several families. Using her keen eye for crime scene detail and an uncanny inner sense, she gets a good jump on pursuing the criminal. But things are not always as they seem even for an incredibly talented criminologist like Thomas and she finds herself as as the hunter and hunted at the same time. <br /> <br />That short synopsis, however, does not tell the whole story. Jaffe has populated her story with many excellent characters and several compelling plotlines that simultaneously grip the reader until those lines converge in a tremendous deneouement at the end of the book. No loose ends are left untied. This is a masterful novel. <br /> <br />Beware, however, that there are some lurid details here that will disturb some sensitive readers. While Jaffe deftly avoids graphic sexual description until a disappointing scene near the end of the book, the gritty detail of murder and life on the seamy side can be disturbing. <br /> <br />Jaffe's writing skills are ver impressive. She has bettered conventional, boilerplate fiction by creating great characters (even minor characters are real) who live in the reader's memory and by spinning tale intricate and succinct at the same time. A true winner.   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2004-09-23
US	41501058	R1262H2B7E2Z8B	0060086645	214590149	Scimitar SL-2	Books	2	7	8	N	N	For naval operations junkies	Hamas, the Moslem world's most organized terrorist group, had commissioned the building of a super nuclear submarine and loaded it with nuclear warheads. Can the United States stop Hamas from wreaking major havoc with their ultimate weapon?  <br /> <br />The premise is intriguing and Patrick Robinson's research into naval operations, submarines, nuclear warheads, and terrorist communications are impressive. But Robinson's naval operations research becomes an anchor that sinks his novel with carboard characters, crass stereotypes and unbelievable subplots. <br /> <br />For naval operations veterans and other naval ops hobbysits, this book may have value in Robinson's painstaking detail in depicting the U.S. navy's strategy and maneuvers to stop the submarine. Robinson credibly debunks the infallability of sonar and plots an effective geography of the seas and defensive equipment that a submarine must navigate for real silence.  <br /> <br />The normal reader will find much of these operational details tedious and wonder why the author could not have spent the same kind of care in his depictions of people. Robinson's rough-crusted-but-soft-inside hero is shallow ; the superevil-totally-heartless villain even more so. So disappointing.  <br /> <br />	2004-08-26
US	41501058	R2DONC67A6QJ7B	0380818973	90628415	Asking for Trouble: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What a tangled web she weaves ....	What is one to do when one has lied to one's mother? Lie some more, of course! And that is just what Sophy does.<br />Sophy is a 30ish Brit chick who has lied herself into a pickle. She has promised her guilt-tripping mother that she will bring her beau to little sister's wedding. The problem is that her beau was concocted falsely to appease dear Mother. So what does she do? She calls an escort service! And the reader takes a wild ride.<br />There is little new about this plot. The storyline has been reworked many times. There is not a whole lot original about the characters. Sophy is a caricature of the other Bridget Jones clones currently on the market. Her love interest is so imperfectly perfect that it is is almost laughable. And yet, I enjoyed this book. <br />Author Elizabeth Young may not be the most inventive of writers but, aside from a very s-l-o-w start, she maintains the reader's interest and throws in enough amusing twists and turns to send the story on its merry way. Especially enjoyable are the witty banter she writes between her characters. <br />On the warning side, this book is very British. I hope I am not the only American who felt lost in some of Young's reference to British life and experience. Some Americans may feel a little lost at times. The editing is also spellcheck sloppy. It is too often obvious that some wrong words slipped through the editing process, thus confusing the prose. Lastly, the story starts very slowly. Those who stick with it are well-rewarded, but beware the slow start.<br />Aside from those warnings, this is a good formula romantic comedy novel that, while somewhat heavy on profanity, refereshingly refrains from the graphic sexual description used by too many current authors. As a bonus for romance readers, it packs a delerious romantic punch near the end of the book. A nice read.	2004-06-18
US	41501058	R3BZ81TV4HZE6E	0871319276	273130934	How to Start a Magazine: And Publish It Profitably	Books	4	30	31	N	N	A wealth of information	So you want to start a magazine? It won't be easy..it won't be fast--and it definitely won't be cheap! <br />Author James Kobak took up the unthankful task of trying to write a user-friendly guide to a profession that many magazine publishers study for four years or more at a university or college. <br />For the most part, Kobak does a pretty good job. He is obviously enthusiastic about the subject. He has been direct witness to the start-up and/or purchase of many magazines. So he knows his subject.<br />The reader faces one big challenge. Reading this book is like scraping the top off a mountain. Once the reader moves past the initial &quot;you can do it&quot; enthusiasm of the first few chapters, s/he is immediately faced with the immensity of the task that starting a magazine may present. By the time Kobak closes up his last few chapters with the drudgery of statistics, bookkeeping and forecasting, the shackles of optimism will have rolled away from the reader's demeanor and the reality of his/her endeavor will stare him/her boldy in the face. <br />There is so much information crammed into the 300-some pages of this book that I ran my highlighter dry trying to capture it all. Kobak writes in an unintimidating style for those new to publishing. That said, however, the information is sometimes muddled by sloppy editing and the author's occasional lapses of clarity in his writing. <BR>   <BR>For its wealth of information alone, this is a must read for anyone who plans on starting a publishing venture without going the college route. Kobak eplains very clearly that starting a magazine is not inexpensive. Perhaps that is why he priced his book so reasonably. So that we readers could learn that fact first.	2004-06-01
US	41501058	RERSTN387BHG6	0060583932	672003952	Fire Your Boss	Books	5	30	30	N	N	A must read for every working man and woman!	Have you lost a job because your employer was tightening it's belt? Are you one of the survivors of layoffs doing the work of five people for one person's salary? Welcome to the 21st century in the American workforce.<br />What is the working man or woman to do? READ THIS BOOK!  The bookshelves are chock full of career and self-help guides , but this one is different. It is eye-opening and doesn't echo the same \\"work smarter, organize better, network more efficiently\\" platitudes that so many of those other books proclaim. Instead, it contains step-by-step instructions on how to best deal with the new employment reality by improving one's own situation.<br />Experienced author Stephen Pollan is a career consultant with many years of experience advising those who want to \\"get ahead.\\" He ably chronicles the changes that have rapidly occurred in the American economy and their effect on the mindset of American employers. Then, with gusto, he delves into his step-by-step instructions for taking control of one's worklife. His recommendations are somewhat counterintuitive but ring with truth. Pollan strips the reader's conceptions of career success to the bones and then builds a new, healthier framework. The end result will be a happier, more successful worker.<br />I cannot recommend this book strongly enough. It is well-written with a straight-forward conversational style. Few words are wasted and neither is the reader's time. To illustrate his points, Pollan incorporates plentiful examples of how his strategy has helped clients to achieve personal success in today's rugged world of work. This book will change the way the working man and woman approach their careers.	2004-05-13
US	41501058	RJ4A7IJX4N3VU	0060933909	250749011	Dancing with the Witchdoctor: One Woman's Stories of Mystery and Adventure in Africa	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Truth more fascinating than fiction	Private investigator Kelly Clark has an adventurous spirit. That spirit leads her to take investigative contracts on the forgotten continent of Africa. She stares death in the face and somehow lives to write about it.<br />That synposis sounds like a page-turning novel, but this book is much better because it is true. Kelly James is a red-headed American who fell in love with adventure when she as a youngster and tells of her African experience in four stirring vignettes. She is a modern renaissance woman. A master of African culture, regional history and the human condition. She also writes incredibly well.<br />This book is not for the weak or soft any more than Indiana Jones would appeal to those of high sensitivities. James' Africa is harsh and real. As the sun beats down, mankind also often does the same to its fellow earthly inhabitants. But the lessons James teaches are invaluable. Her love for Africa and its people is indisputable. James teaches us lessons poignantly and with page-turning adventure. Western arrogance can be very dangerous.<br />A must-read, I recommend this book to all readers who don't need life candy-coated. A winner!	2004-03-20
US	41501058	R2MPTOHWU2S6W6	0440240859	293114026	Cloud of Sparrows	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Gunfighters in Japan	Some books were meant to be published as paperbacks. Cloud of Sparrows is one of those books. It is not a literary gem but is packed with the kind of action that keeps a reader's attention even amid outside distractions.<br />&quot;Cloud&quot; is set in feudal Japan where noble young lord Genji rules over a minor clan that is under the constant threat of extinction from the powerful Shogun and, especially, his vindictive minister of defense. It is into this setting that three unlikely American missionaries arrive by ship. One missionary is a fiery preacher, one his betrothed, and one is a Western gunslinger looking for revenge.<br />The non-traditional Genji falls in love with a geisha, the fiery preacher is murdered, and the plot opens into a galloping story of martial arts, revenge, love, and Eastern vs. Western mores.<br />Japanese-born author Takashi Matsuoka presents Japan-centric fiction with a twist. Cover blurbs compare the book to Shogun, but aside from the setting, the two books are very different. Rather than a novel steeped in Japanese tradition like Shogun, &quot;Cloud&quot; features characters who think outside the feudal box. Lord Genji regularly breaks with revered tradition. His geisha, Heiko, stretches the rules of propriety required by tradition.<br />The American characters are larger than life. The preacher's fiancee is so extraordinarily beauttful that men cannot control themselves in her presence. Yet in Japan she is considered ugly. The gunslingers are nearly faster than the eye. <br />Put a variety of characters in a book with equally varied storylines and you have an epic-length (500+ pages) novel with plenty of blood, gore, heroes, heroines, and Japanese culture. <br />The biggest diappointment about the book is an unsatisfying ending. After 500+ pages, one would expect a more subtle resolution to a major storyline. &quot;Cloud&quot; is also, as mentioned earlier in the review, no literary masterpiece. Plot events, like the book's characters, are heroic and often defy belief. Thus, readers bothered by the unrealistic will not enjoy this book.<br />On the other hand, readers looking for adventure, an exotic setting and bigger-than-life characters will love this/	2004-01-27
US	41501058	R1HQH67MMPDIBW	0060931310	466900475	In the Little World: A True Story of Dwarfs, Love, and Trouble	Books	2	11	11	N	N	The cynical journalist leaves little to admire	Journalist John H. Richardson attended a Little People of America convention looking for a story he could turn into a book. But the perfect story did not emerge immediately and so Richardson, cynical journalist that he seems to be, apparently decided to force a story. What emerges is more a voyeuristic look into the methods and musings of a journalist than the intimate look at &quot;dwarfs&quot; that Richardson may have intended.<br />Early in the book, the author muses over how he should approach his story. He is critical of those who write &quot;little people with big hearts&quot; stories and sets out to do something different. He succeeds. This book comes off as little people through the eyes of a little heart.<br />Richardson chronicles his involvement with a brassy female dwarf ; the blossoming love of a dwarf couple ; and a crippled teen female dwarf who suffers through multiple surgeries with her maladjusted mother. The author takes the subjects on his own terms, works his way into their lives, and gains their trust so that he can expose their worst personality traits with diminished attention to any warmth that they might possess.<br />The author writes very well as may be expected from one who writes for a living. His coverage of the world of little people is fairly complete with significant discussions on the medical treatment of dwarfism through surgery and therapy. He delves too deeply into the philosophical view of dwarfism through the ages. And he delves deeply into the relationships between little people, their families, friends and others who surround them.<br />He graphically chronicles the stress that dwarfism can place on a family and even more graphically portrays the havoc that can occur when one turns outside one's family for moral support. <br />Most of all, however, Ricahrdson depicts the way in which a journalist can invite himself into another person's life to spin a story in his own direction. Although Richardson documents the hurt expressed by some of those who read his blunt newspaper coverage of the Little People of America convention, he sheds any personal remorse and continues his calloused views to the end of this book. I can only hope that those same people hurt by Richardson's newspaper work will save themselves the pain of reading this book.	2003-12-09
US	41501058	R1NR1PSTNJ87U7	0312282842	360802165	The Fiend in Human: A Novel (Edward Whitty, 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Sensational!	Victorian London is abuzz with news of a serial killer in their midst. That buzz is fed by profit-driven newspaper columnists who each strive for the most sensational story.<br />Edmund Whitty is one such columnist for The Falcon. He is also a drunken lout with steep gambling debts that he can't seem to pay. One evening he is beaten severely as he leaves his favorite drinking place. He is subsequently spirited to the deepest underbelly of Victorian London society to be confronted by a man whom Whitty has recently defamed in a recent newspaper column.<br />Whitty's world turns upside down and author John MacLachlan Gray's excellent novel takes off. I don't know that I would, like the book's cover, classify this book as a thriller. This is a suspense novel of the first rate. But it is not a typical thriller where action overrides reason in forwarding it's plot. <br />Rather, Gray has written a fantastic story of crime, injustice and retribution centered around less-than-regal Victorian London society. His detailed depictions of life in London's underbelly are so effective that the reader can smell the aroma of the unkempt and yet feel the nobility of their humanity. His equally honest portrayal of human foibles and the wrongs of class consciousness are settled in the reader's mind. His plot is unpredictable and surprises abound. Yet there is still a rousing ending that will leave the reader cheering.<br />This book is a must read and should be on recommended Victorian reading lists everywhere, with only a couple of warnings. <br />This is a work of historical excellence. As an American, it took me a while to become accustomed to the Victorian slang and other linguistic derivations of the time. But keep going, dear readers. For the language will become clear and that accuracy in language makes the book so much more genuine. There is no modern sensibility at play here. No cheap effort, the langauge helps to make the setting real.<br />This is also not the light happy fiction that many an American reader has come to expect from best-sellers. This is quality realism. Life in London's underbelly of the time was not pretty. Societal mores called for survival skills that some now will find repugnant. Gray's characters are real. None are perfect but all are very human. <br />Read this book! It is a historical treasure.	2003-11-10
US	41501058	R1XLZ1059OFTW4	0060957492	659789670	Venus Envy: Power Games, Teenage Vixens, and Million-Dollar Egos on the Women's Tennis Tour	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Ultimately a little disappointing	The glamour girls of women's tennis get the elongated Sports Illustrated treatment. Given the racy racy title of this book, a reader might expect juicy gossip about the private lives of these star athletes. Otherwise, one might expect a deeper look at the Women's tennis tour and exciting blow-by-blow action. <br />What the reader gets is a recap of the major tournaments during the 2000 season (Wimbledon, French, Open, US Open, Indian Wells mostly)with some background on the more prominent of the racket stars. SI Tennis columnist Jon Wertheim gives us some acquaintance with Lindsay Davenport, Martina Hingis, Monica Seles, some minor stars and, of course, the Williams Sisters Venus and Serena.<br />Wertheim chronicles the influence of meddlesome parents. He explains the shortcomings of the World Tennis Association. And he even quotes outrageous allegations of lesbianism and widespread promiscuity among the women players. But he sheds no light on those allegations and lets the allegations fall flat. They would have been better unmentioned.<br />The tennis itself would have had more punch had the author described the mastery these players possess. Instead, his focus was on the athletes' dislike of other athletes and the petty bickerings that these emotions caused. He colors those bickerings with unspoken racism against the Williams sisters.  <br />These women are world class athletes. And 2000 was the year that Venus Williams blossomed into the power she is today. More effort could have been spent on what caused her dominance aside from her size and musculature. <br />This book is not necessarily a bad book. It merely misses its potential. There are some good, yet shallow portrayals of some of tennis' top women. But that isn't enough to pull this book over the hump.	2003-10-01
US	41501058	R1GFIW387R3XG7	0871139030	349635017	Uniform Justice: A Commissario Guido Brunetti Mystery	Books	3	8	15	N	N	The Difference between European &amp; American mystery	I was told once that the difference between Europeans and Americans was perspective. Americans are optimists ; while Europeans are realists. I submit this novel as evidence.<br />In this police procedural, a student is discovered dangling from the ceiling in the dormitory shower at an &quot;elite&quot; military school in Venice. All signs point to suicide, but Commissario Brunetti's innate instincts give him reason to question that diagnosis. Thus, author Donna Leon follows Brunetti and his colleagues as they piece together evidence of murder and conspiracy.<br />Author Leon is acclaimed and well-respected in Europe, having received the Silver Dagger award for fiction in the United Kingdom. She writes well, to say the least. Her main character Brunetti has a heart of gold and a deep cynicism toward Venetian politics and military. His love and other Venetians' love for family is played here against a backdrop of dark hatred and a lust for power that permeates the perpetrators of a young man's murder.<br />Brunetti despises the military and Italian politicos. He describes a history of government by bribery and power brokers. He shows its toll on everyday Venetians and the deterioration of Venetian society. He holds out little hope for correction of this morass. And in the end, this morass prevents the kind of satisfactory ending that marks most American mysteries. Evil defeats good.<br />There are some great characters in this book: a police secretary who has the access to information and the ability to analyze it that will make any librarian proud ; a lovable teddy bear of a detective who turns to a beast at the right moment ; a stubborn, highly-principled and grief-stricken father of the victim ; and Brunetti's long-suffering and supportive wife who provides a moral foundation for this novel.<br />But the humanity of the characters cannot outweigh the fatalistic realism that looms over this novel. Readers of European fiction who do not need a happy ending will enjoythis book for its quality. But American readers accustomed to justice being served will be terribly disappointed.	2003-09-08
US	41501058	R72ES5L0Y4ZKD	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Was I ever wrong!	I was very vocal in my opinion that J.K. Rowling could not maintain the quality of her Harry Potter series. I didn't believe that she could portray a pubescent Harry as effectively as she did in her previous books. Was I ever wrong!<br />Young teen Harry returns to Hogwarts for year 5 after a cloistered summer with his overbearing aunt and uncle. But his return to school is not easy. Harry has a chip on his shoulder typical of many a teenage boy. He starts to have feelings for the opposite sex. He has difficulty controlling his anger. And yet Rowling polishes the book with her usual mastery of suspense, humor and wonderful characters.<br />Anyone who read the previous Harry Potter books will know that the main plotline focuses around Harry's struggles against the Dark Lord, He-who-must-not-be-named. S/he will also know that the plot will have more twists and turns than a rattlesnake. But that is not necessarily what makes this series so readable.  <BR>  <BR>Rowling inexpicably, in the most simple and clear English, suffuses her writing with emotion. The anger that Harry feels leaves the reader tense ; the sorrow at the loss of a friend leaves the reader saddened ; the confusion and awkwardness of teen love will ring true for every reader who was ever there. It is this mastery of emotion that makes this series hard to put down and leaves one anxious for the next installment.<br />So it is easy to overlook the fact that this plotline moves a little slower than the previous four books and that plot elements here are not as original as in the earlier works. It's also easier to overlook the fact that this book is nearly 900 pages long.<br />Those weaknesses are easy to overlook because ohh! the flood of feeling and emotion! The love, hate, fear, terror, are all here along with the laughter. This is what reading is about.	2003-08-21
US	41501058	RLIT92C52QY6M	038080042X	39681288	West of Rehoboth: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Being Black on the East Coast	Author Alexs Pate deftly depicts a post-Jim Crow '60s society where Whites and Blacks are still segregated beyond reason and the deck is stacked in the white man's favor. Pate also weaves an atmospheric tapestry so wonderful that the reader senses vividly the surroundings and lives of his characters. <br />12-year-old African-American Edward Massey makes his usual summer pilgrimage to West Rehoboth, Delaware. There, through the eyes of drifter Rufus C. Brown, he runs head-on into life as a mature black man in segregated America. It is Rufus' story that this novel tells.<br />Rufus is a likeable enough character, as are most of the characters in this book. But Rufus does not suffer well the struggles of being a black male in America. Though Rufus grows up in the 1920s and meets Edward in the '60s, many of his trials are the same many Black Americans face yet today in the 2000s : absent parents ; too much spare time ; poor job oppurtunity ; and dishonest employers and coworkers. Rufus blames his problems on the White man but creates worse problems for himself by seeking solace in alcohol.<br />The balance to Rufus is Edward's successful, independent Aunt Edna. Edna achieves financial success by manipulating the white man's rules and doing the best she can. She parlays this into the successful restaurant/dance club where Edward stays.<br />Pate's other characters represent the range of ways the African-American diaspora dealt with inferior treatment at the hands of White America.<br />This book is hard to categorize. Pate is a writer of magnificent talent. His depictions of characters are honest, their faults at times glaring. Unfortunately, excellent characters and magnificent writing alone cannot make this a masterpiece. A poor, hurried ending hurt a plot already hampered by the introduction of an element of extra-sensory/mystical perception that does not belong here. Those two shortcomings bring this novel back to earth.	2003-07-12
US	41501058	R3TW8J6SMULLEU	0800718372	456420453	Flabbergasted	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Light Christian fun	Ray Jarvis is a young, unmarried stockbroker relocating to Columbia, SC. He asks his realtor where men like him can meet the opposite gender. He is told that Columbia's singles scene revolves around church. So the unreligious Ray goes to church... North Hills Presbyterian to be more exact. <br />What follows is an enjoyable look at the Christian singles scene, Ray's religious experience and a dandy game of hard-to-get with an attractive female missionaries.<br />There is no doubt this is Christian fiction. It has the requisite call to repentance and conversion of one of its main characters. And it employs the worn out analogy that one must choose faith or a career ; but that the two cannot coexist.<br />Despite those shortcomings, this is a fun quick read. Author Bankston turns a cute phrase and obviously understands the single male mind. He litters the book with wholly likable characters who have amusing foibles that make them lovable. The South Carolina coast is described so well that the reader can smell the salt air. A very nice summer read.<br />Is there a sequel in the works?	2003-06-30
US	41501058	R3PJ46WYRGLQ1K	0060512601	875968884	Ten Stupid Things Couples Do to Mess Up Their Relationships	Books	3	16	33	N	N	It's Dr. Laura's show	Make no doubt about it. Dr. Laura is in charge, she sets the rules and that's the way it is. She has never denied it and it is more than obvious when reading her books.<br />As a librarian, I am part of the silent majority who agree with Dr. Laura. She has deservedly assaulted my profession enough, but I am also conservative-leaning and admire much that she has to say.<br />Yet I can't help being a little disappointed in this book. For the author's fans, it bears all of Dr. Laura's straight-forward, no bull language. It has plenty of nuggets of golden wisdom for those pursuing marriage. And it couches no words in sentimentality.<br />It's gems, however, are buried in Dr. Laura's self-aggrandizement, crude language and a repetition of the personality flaws that create problems for men and women in not only their couplings, but in all of their relationships. The \\"stupid things\\" the author decries can easily be stated in three sentences: Don't have sex before marriage. Don't be selfish. And have some self-esteem. <br />I wholeheartedly agree with those three points, but I can't imagine that this material was anything new from Dr. Laura's previous two \\"Stupid things\\" books. It serves mostly as a long synopsis, with samples, of the stupid problems her callers reveal on her radio show. She exposes and belittles the mistakes of her callers and mail correspondents. But she offers no possible solution for these callers to remedy their problems. It leaves me a little cold.<br />My biggest pet peeve: Dr. Laura repeatedly refers to \\"G-d.\\" I'm not sure what that means. It is a blatant denial of recognition of the deity that most of her fans espouse. I would prefer she either complete the word \\"God\\" or skirt around diety's influence like the wishy-washy liberals she demonizes.	2003-06-02
US	41501058	REAIZC21AP3TJ	0345437691	669099405	Natural Suspect	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Strong and weak	Superstar author William Bernhardt here assembles a cast of fellow mystery stars to provide an entertaining legal tale that shows the positives and negatives of collaborative novels.<br />First, the positives--Collaborative novels are hot! Few things are as intriguing as multiple popular authors under one cover. The reader is able to sample the works of authors s/he may not have read before along with old favorites. <br />All of the authors included in this book are top-flight stars. Bernhardt starts this novel with a bang, laying out the murder mystery and primary characters in light fashion. Each subsequent author then adds to the plot and adds a new twist of his/her own. In the final chapter, Bernhardt then wraps up all the loose ends of this convulted tale, solves the whodunit, and ensures a happy ending. The plot moves along well and the book can be easily read in a day or two.<br />The negatives?--Many of the same things that will make some people love this book. Because each author has unique style and views of where the plot should go, the tale can flow very unevenly. Characters likable in previous chapters become villainous in later chapters. Details presented in earlier chapters become inconsequential later in the story. This will disappoint readers more accustomed to a favorite author. Perhaps a previously agreed-upon plot outline may have minimized some of this confusion. <br />Overall, however, collaborative novels are written as novelty -- fundraising for the Nature Conservancy in this case. While this novel isn't superior in its quality, it is a whole lot of fun and it has definitely introduced me to some mystery writers that I may not have sought out otherwise. This book is well worth the time.	2003-05-11
US	41501058	R2BSIFBSLMIV3L	0060509546	707173567	Tropic of Night	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Devil is in the Details	This is a top-flight debut suspense thriller with only one weakness--it's obsession with detail. Anthropologist Jane Doe falls for two men who introduce her to two disparate communities with isolated and pristine societies ; one in Siberia, the other in Africa. The common denominator in the two locales is an integral link to magic, as in witchcraft.<br />Doe's first husband, an anthropologist, is involved recreationally with the Siberian Chenka but is in control of it ; whereas the second husband, a black poet and author, cedes control to the African magic and becomes a gruesome mass killer. <br />Parallelled with Doe's story is that of police detective Iago Paz. Paz is assigned to solve the murders and bring the murderer to justice. He learns that human wisdom is limited when dealing with the otherworld. And Doe is needed if the killing is to end.<br />Michael Gruber has a unique voice and uses it well to create honest and believable characters. The interplay between characters is wonderful. He builds his suspense slowly to a chilling finale that may have some readers losing sleep. His weakness is that he perhaps builds his suspense a little too slowly for some.<br />Gruber obviously knows the subject of magic well. He spends much of the book building the reader's understanding of magic in great detail, eventually showing clearly the difference between white (good) magic and black (bad) magic. He depicts clearly the finite nature of human mind and reason and our refusal to listen to multi-dimensional thought. Family relationships shadow the characters and become a major factor in the end.<br />Fantastic writing! Chilling climax! Unfortunately, it took me more than 100 pages to be hooked. A book not for the impatient.	2003-04-28
US	41501058	RHPIT0VOQBNND	0345442490	620538949	Breaking Away	Books	2	2	14	N	N	A Hate Novel	In 1993, five African-American female students at the University of Pennsylvania were bombarded by foul epithets spewed by  Caucasian males in a dormitory. Were the taunts racially motivated, as the Black women assert, or were they the juvenile rantings of White men frustrated by a loud sorority celebration that allegedly made studying impossible? That is the question that Kristin Lattany apparently tries to answer in this novel of racial hatred.<br />The main character of the book is a Black female professor of English at Penn. She is also the faculty advisor for one of the aforementioned female students. Previously oblivious to the racism that surrounds her, the professor's eyes are forced open by her experiences supporting the students' efforts for equal justice under university policy. This awakening is also played around her relationships with a more racially aware sister and best friend, while she struggles with a mother who espouses a more traditional Black role.<BR> <BR>Lattany is no unaccomplished writer. She has been nominated for the National Book Award for previous work and, for the most part, ably presents her storyline in this book. There are a few moments of jumbled dialogue, minimal confused plotting, and a weak finish. But those small errors do little to interfere with her strong message.<br />And her strong message is where this book's weakness lies. Her message is that non-African America hates its Black populace. That White America will look askance at the neo-Nazi skinhead movements while it intimidates by violent means African-Americans. For good measure, her message belittles that sector of the African-American population that believes in a more gentle and quiet approach to minority life than that espoused by the more vocal sector.<br />All too often, fiction is written where a more complete nonfiction treatment would be more worthwhile. I fear that this is one of those situations. The African-American angle of the events of 1993 has likely been under-represented. The experience of those five female students deserves to be heard. But not like this. This book can only be recommended for the most uncompromising of anti-White Blacks. What a shame.	2003-04-02
US	41501058	RMRP8P9H4PH1F	034544812X	783524758	Coldwater (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Chilling, suspenseful gem	Some of the greatest fiction written has come from small, unheralded writers far from the maddening crowds of New York. Read this fine novel and learn that truth.<br />Coldwater is an Australian penal colony in the 1840s, a time when the prison trade was one of Australia's most important businesses. But Coldwater is more than the average prison. It is the equivalent of America's Alcatraz Island ; a cold barren rock of an island separated from the mainland and without a successful escape attempt. The credit for its impermeability is given to the prison's governor, Captain Wolf, seen here mostly through the eyes of his three single adult daughters. <br />Life on a penal island is short on oppurtunity for women. Love prospects are few and, short of domestic chores, there is little to occupy their lives. Lack of intellectual oppurtunity, lack of romance and a lack of consideration from a career-obessed father create the perfect recipe for depression, rebellion and the familial breakdown that fuels the page-turning drama in this book. The drama builds and builds into a tremendous climax of destruction, loss and conflagration. And yet magically McConnochie ends this story of disturbance with a sweet romanitc ending. <br />The author, Mardi McConnochie, admits a fascination with the Bronte sisters and weaves that fascination heavily into her plot, even naming her three female characters Charlotte, Emily and Anne. McConnochie has done copious historical research for her novel and capsulizes her learning in a historic note at the end of the story. Her historic setting is true, the atmospheric essence is powerful. And despite the use of viewpoint that hops between the main characters(from 1st to 3rd person), diaries and snippets of textbooks, the author keeps the storyline free of confusion and wastes no words. I have never seen an author who handles changing viewpoints so deftly.<br />This a gem. It is a tremendous book. Written by a more recognized author it might be deemeda classic. Having been authored by this Aussie, it is sad that it may well be forgotten. I heartily recommend this novel for all readers.	2003-03-03
US	41501058	R1XQOUGYCN300D	0061031151	578821021	The Bride's Kimono	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Intense to pretense	An expatriate American antiques dealer is given the chance of her life to return, for pay, to the United States as a guest speaker on antique kimonos at a cultural museum in Washington D.C. Rei Shimura, the aforementioned Japanese-American antiques dealer, soon finds that the offer was not as clean as it seemed.<br />First, she finds herself as an oversea courier for the priceless Samurai-period kimonos she is to lecture about. Then one of the kimonos is stolen from her D.C. hotel room, a recent acquaintance is murdered, and she is suspected of involvement in the crime. To make matters worse, her romantic troubles are heightened by this trip stateside, and her estranged parents become involved as well. The juggling match of the varied plot elements makes for an enjoyable plotline with plenty of suspense.  Unfortunately, acclaimed author Sujata Massey seems to have rushed through this novel somewhat and left behind several plot inconsistencies and provides a resolution based upon too many previously-unmentioned plot factors.<br />As a fan of fiction based in Asian cultures, I was anxious to read this book after reading rave reviews of other Massey works. For 95% of the book I was not disapointed despite niggling plot and character inconsistencies scattered throughout the book. Massey writes a tight plot, melding several plot elements into a cohesive novel that gripped me and made me smile. Her coverage of Japanese culture and history were fantastic and added to the excellence of her writing. <br />But there is always that 5%. Massey deftly leads the plot to a suspenseful denouement with our protagonist in mortal danger. The villain is a big surprise. And then the reader is confronted with a plethora of details uncovering the plot's veil of mystery. This is a common technique in mystery novels and not necessarily to be criticized. However, in this case, too many of those details arise from previously-unexplained or improperly-foreshadowed incidents in the book. Masseythen provides a sappy tie-up ending to resolve the other noncrime-related storylines in her novel. I was deflated.  <br />This is certainly no novel to be trashed and Massey is well-deserving of the praise she receives. I recommend Massey as an author to seek for quality Asian-culture fiction. She merely stumbles with this novel.	2003-02-16
US	41501058	RW2SWK3XL59YW	0345447654	402239361	The Center of Things (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Celebrity death and Cosmology	If someone told me that an author would seamlessly incorporate obituaries, quantum cosmology, the public library and sibling separation into a captivating work of fiction, I would never have believed it. <br />But that is exactly what Jenny McPhee has done. In her debut novel, McPhee tells the story of tabloid obituary writer Marie Brown. Marie has three obsessions. She loves golden age movies to the point of memorizing their dialogue. She spends copious hours at her local public library doing research on a quantum science paper that she never finished before dropping out of graduate school. And she can't stop thinking about her estranged brother.<br />When her favorite golden age femme fatale actress lies in iminent death at a hospital, Marie decides to take a big chance and volunteers to write her biography/obituary for the tabloid. That decision turns into a crash course of self-discovery.<br />McPhee deftly weaves the disparate aspects of Marie's life into a satisfying and believable whole. Marie is the perfect antihero, a conglomeration of self-doubt, confusion and boldness whose humanity never grows old. The secondary characters, from the quirky library denizen Marie befriends to the celebrity's brassy sister, are equally human.<br />Despite all the elements McPhee wraps into her story, the plotline never loses direction and surprise twists and turns keep the reader on his/her toes. Though the author changes time frames frequently with little warning, these switches are logical and clear enough that confusion is minimal. Most gratifying to me is the novel's lack of explicit sex and gratuitous obscenity. <br />The biggest drawback to this novel is that the plot slows in the middle seemingly to spend more time with character development and background establishment. The heavy discussions on quantum cosmology may also put off readers unfamiliar and disinterested in quantum science and philosophy. But neither criticism should discourage readers who appreciate well-written, quality fiction. This novel is a piece of art and Jenny McPhee is an author to watch.	2003-01-06
US	41501058	R2YQHO66BXLV2B	0345440404	812378570	Summer Moon	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Tug your heartstrings in Texas	I enjoy a quality romance novel as well as I do any other well-written, creative book with memorable characters. Unfortunately, Summer Moon does not totally fit my bill. It will, however, likely satisfy avid readers of formula mass-market romance paperbacks.<br />Kate Whittington, a prostitute's daughter raised in a Catholic orphanage in the late 1800s, answers a \\"wife wanted\\" ad and finds herself living in Texas with a landowner who may or may not actually be her husband. She is also charged with raising and taming the landowner's Comanche-raised son. Throw in sideplots involving a reforming prostitute, the landowner's best friend, and the town minister who falls in love with Kate and the book falls into a comfortable, predictable, formula romance. <br />While Landis obviously knows how to write (the plot moves smoothly from event to event and her structure is clear), creativity does not seem to be her strong suit here. All her characters are predictably gorgeous, ruggedly handsome, sexy, and/or heroically beautiful. The plot is as predictable as a hot Texas summer, replete with cowboys and indians. <br />Despite these negatives, Landis admirably limits the novel's most intimate moments to suggestively sexy scenes that stroke the libido without resorting to the graphic anatomical grossness so prevalent in today's romance books. And in the end, she deftly weaves her swooning prose into a predictable but romantic payoff that will please avid romance fans.	2002-12-24
US	41501058	RZLIGEE84BF63	0142000906	438823468	The Magic of Ordinary Days	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Read this book!	Never have I read a book that so effectively portrays the lessons of growing up. There is a deep selection of &quot;coming-of-age&quot; books on bookstore shelves, but none of them captures maturation as Creel does in this gem.<br />During World War II, Olivia, a young woman from busy Denver finds herself pregnant and is shipped away to marry a lonely farmer in rural Southern Colorado. Seeking companionship, she befriends two Japanase-American sisters interned at a nearby internment camp. To give away more of the plot, ruins the excellent storyline.<br />Author Creel beautifully weaves a tapestry of Olivia's loss of childhood, her friends'loss of freedom and the loss of life created by war. She wonderfully depicts the limits that choices made in passion place upon those who act before considering all the consequences. She most effectively shows that facing life's challenges and learning from them brings about love and maturity.<br />The characters in Magic are not perfect but are truly noble. This is a true love story for men and women. It bears lessons for young adults and adult alike. It's message is one that we all need to read in this age of instant gratification. <br />Read this book!	2002-11-21
US	41501058	RET2WHIP8D7NS	0060009225	795309718	Call Each River Jordan (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Abel is plenty able	There is something sublime about this book. <br />It would be easy for Parry to follow the easy path to Civil War fiction that so many other authors have followed. But, instead, he chooses to probe the depths of slavery and abolition and Union versus Confederacy. <br />Although this book is billed as a historical suspense/mystery novel, it is far more. The murder plot is merely a device the author uses to explore the depths of human character and the interplay between Whites and Blacks during the Civil War. All of Parry's characters are very human, including his main hero and his major villain. The terrors and bloodlust of war are portrayed vividly. And, to Parry's credit, not all of the action takes place on the battlefield.<br />Main character Abel Jones is a Welsh major hired by President Lincoln to solve the mass murder of some Blacks barely over the Shiloh battle lines. To do so, he must coordinate his activities with officers from the Confederacy. The Union blames the Confederates for the murders and the Confederacy blames the Union. But Abel is Able as he solves the dilemma. But, as I said, the mystery plot is secondary. <br />Abel struggles with the line between Christian non-violence and wartime bloodshed. Some characters struggle with loss of life and property while others struggle with the concept of true freedom. <br />The only negative to this book is its obvious setup at the finish for a sequel. I don't dislike sequels or series novels, but the setup is too obvious.<br />Nonetheless, this book is glorious and there really is something sublime here that I can't pinpoint. A treasure.	2002-11-14
US	41501058	R50WBIHGVEKT8	1573459321	254853254	No Doubt About It	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Dew-y inspiration	This inspirational book is aimed squarely at women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The author is a beloved former member of the largest Christian women's organization in the world and the author of two biographies on recent presidents of The Church.<br />That said, this book is a worthwhile read by LDS men and even those not affiliated with the The Church. Non-LDS readers be warned, however, that Dew laces her book liberally with Mormon references and scripture. Despite this, the message is one that should resonate with all God-fearing poeple: Seek the Lord first and everything else in your life will be much smoother. That message is especially vital for a Mormon female culture that seems to strive for superwomanhood. <br />Much of this book will ring familiar to faithful members of The Church as most of its contents were previously delivered over the pulpit in a variety of different meetings while the author served as a counselor in the General Relief Society presidency. But these messages deserve the more considered study that only a reading can provide.<br />The only criticism I have of the book is that Dew's aforementioned message is so focused here that it's repetition left me wishing there were a more broad message.	2002-10-31
US	41501058	R2QD98YKCAGDUM	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Fascinating morbidity	... <BR>  Authors Ghiglieri and Myers are Grand Canyon experts first and writers second. This book is a little overlong and choppy at some points. But, that can be quickly overlooked because this book is a gem!<BR>  Gathered here are logs with selected anecdotes of every person who has fallen, drowned, been murdered or otherwise perished in the Grand Canyon. The authors know of what they speak because they personally assisted in rescues and treatment of some of the persons about whom they write.<BR>  In this age of OSHA and fail-safe amusement park rides, humans have become too disrespectful of the power of nature. The Grand Canyon is nature at its most beautiful, but unlike the props at Universal Studios, the rocks here are hard ; and unlike the pools at Sea World, the water here is fast and furious. <BR>  This should be required reading for anyone visiting the Grand Canyon for the first time. It lets the reader learn from the fatal errors other have made. The final chapter on murder is full of mystery and intrigue. I will never look at the Grand Canyon the same way again.	2002-10-07
US	41501058	R2KL8NSU58501D	0767907132	686633882	The Best a Man Can Get: A Novel of Fatherhood and its Discontents	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Family values surprise	Songwriter Michael Adams has the perfect life. A beautiful wife ; two wonderful children and a third on the way ; and the best of both single and married life.  You see, he has created a way to spend several nights and days per week away from home living in an apartment on the other end of London. He sees his wife and children just enough to enjoy them when he wants while not having to deal with the children when he doesn't.<br />But his \\"perfect\\" life proves illusory when the single life and family life can no longer coexist happily. What is perfect for Michael is not so perfect for the wife he loves more than anything else in the world. Michael is forced to make a choice and learns some lessons along the way. <br />John O'Farrell's debut novel is a British romp through the challenges of fathering and its inherent dangers to marriage. What makes this tale stand out, however, is its whole-hearted portrayal of family's importance in a man's life. Men, married or no, are most often portrayed as philandering, sex-obsessed and unfaithful to their spouses and families. But, from the start of this book, protagonist Adams is a loyal family man.<br />Unfortunately, O'Farrell dampens this message with sexual material that is too explicit for this otherwise light romp. Michael Adams captures my viewpoint perfectly when he muses, \\"I didn't disapprove of sex, but Hugo talked with such contempt about the women he had seduced that it almost left as bad a taste in my mouth as it must have done for them.\\" The vulgarity and sparse but prurient content of this book leave me with a sour aftertaste. <br />That complaint aside, this is a wonderful book. It reads as though destined to become a movie. Not surprising given O'Farrell's background in screenwriting. But only purists will be bothered because this book is funny and poignant at the same time. Sudden surprise twists keep the reader on his toes and lead to an ending that ties up loose ends and finishes with a pleasant gasp.	2002-06-26
US	41501058	R1KFHBATI28GI4	0375718915	719464198	Little America	Books	3	1	10	N	N	Lukewarm intrigue in the Middle East	How ironic that Henry Bromell chooses to call his fictional nation Kurash, which is actually a form of martial wrestling. Bromell seems to wrestle throughout his novel with what he wants to say and where he wants to go with it.<BR>  Bromell's main character is Terry Hooper, a boy who grows up the son of a cold-war CIA agent in the aforementioned fictional country. Terry, now an adult historian, tries to find the truth about his father's secret activities and simultaneously gain an understanding of who he is himself. That is where the author's wrestling begins.<BR>  There is a healthy amount of intrigue in the top-secret circumstances under which his father operated. The plot is sharp with a pleasant array of surprise twists and turns. But, the author chooses to clutter this plotline with the struggles of Terry to become comfortable with his own identity and the ethical questions surrounding his search for U.S. government secrets. At times, it is difficult to ascertain whether the novel is supposed to be a novel of intrigue and suspense or whether it is supposed to be a story of family relationships and the human dilemma.<BR>  Bromell's apparent wrestling with direction is compounded by his frequent shifting of point of view. Terry's first person narrative jumps to his second person observations, to third person, and to other characters' second person views without warning. Setting, time frame and storyline change just as frequently. This creates confusion and frustration for the reader.<BR>  When Bromell follows a plotline and moves his story in one direction, however, it is intricate, clever and well-written. It is his hopefully unintentional lack of focus that weighs down what should be a great read.	2002-06-12
US	41501058	R3QW779AM9ROPW	0060393696	953481067	Dark City Dames: The Wicked Women of Film Noir	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Superb biography of the queens of film noir	Some 50 years ago, the women of this book worked in relative obsurity amidst the shadows of large studios during film noir's heyday. Now with the resurgent popularity of the film noir genre, these actresses are finally being recognized for the keen talent they possess and the effect they had on a generation of movies.<br />None of these women are household names because none of these women were given the star publicity treatment that Myrna Loy, Joan Crawford and others were givne during the same time period.  But their stories are every bit as interesting and author Eddie Muller tells them wonderfully.<br />Muller is obviously a fan of folm noir, but does not let this color these biographies. Rather, Muller deftly allows the six actresses featured here to tell their own stories.  The result is an honest, touching and insightful view into the Hollywood moviemaking era of the late 30s to early 50s. <br />Each actress' life is chronicled from the time she was born until the present. The personalities shine through as Muller shows the different ways in which each woman found a love for acting and was later \\"discovered\\" by Hollywood. The result is poignant. From the exhileration of the \\"big\\" movie to the sorrow at the death of a spouse, each life is fascinating. A great book!	2002-04-28
US	41501058	R4XVET0QD94SL	0385335660	238997941	Kissing in Manhattan	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mesmerizing intrigue	This book is about Manhattanites. About Manhattanites who live in or otherwise seem to frequent a \\"cryptic, old brownstone\\"(the author's own words) in the heart of Manhattan called the Preemption.<BR>The name of the building is unfortunate, for the inhabitants who occupy this book are even more unusual and interesting than the building they live in. And, despite its antique structure and quaint wooden elevator, this building preempts none of the occurences in this story.<BR>This is a gem of a book. It is obvious from the first several chapters that author Schickler feels comfortable writing short stories. These chapters are strong enough individually to stand on their own as separate units. The only thing that draws them together are moments when their locales overlap.  They are stories of people with unusual loneliness and personilty quirks to match.<BR>Roughly midway through the book, Schickler ties all these stories together and changes his format to a more typical novel's narrative. A few of the characters are never heard from again and the plot narrows to an unfortunately predictable climax.<BR>Schickler has so much writing talent that this novel is very hard to set down.  His Manhattanites are so well drawn that, despite their quirks (and some of the quirks can be offensive) the reader is drawn to sympathy and care. The interactions between the characters are incredibly real. The plot is free of holes. The only weakness in writing is the inclusion of a few incidences of mysticism that do not fit well in the bulk of the plot.<BR>The predictability of the climax is disappointing as it does not follow the natural pattern of the rest of the novel. But overall, this is an excellent novel well worth reading.<BR>Please note that because this book deals with lonely, unanchored people with little moral anchor, there are sex scenes that will undoubtedly make some readers uncomfortable. But the scenes serve well to establish the failings and dangers of the characters andseem an integral part of the plot.	2002-04-10
US	41501058	R292V29NVTJOWF	0060198702	484846709	Murder Boogies with Elvis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Real Delight	What a wonderful novel!  As this is the first George novel I have read, I am so disappointed to learn that this is the last in the Southern Sisters Mystery series.<br />It has been a verrrry long time since I read a book with such charming and delightful character. Even the murderer is eccentrically charming in his own way.  George combines Southern grace, wit and obsession into a tale of murderous intrigue. Two elderly (but don't you dare call them that!) sisters have an uncomfortable knack for stumbling across murders, even when they are out for an evening of enjoyment.  They seem to have the same knack for stumbling across clues that solve those crimes. But the formula murder mystery has little to do with what makes this novel so enjoyable.<br />The two sisters are exact opposites, one petite, more withdrawn, and in a long-term marriage ; her sister is large, gregariously outspoken, and working on her fourth nuptials. Each is quirky and surrounded by neighbors and acquaintances who are every bit as unique.  <br />In this novel, the murder victim is a mysterious but highly praised Russian dancer who is performing, oddly enough, as an Elvis impersonator when he is murder. Twists and turns throw red herrings to the reader before settling on its cuprit. Humor abounds without being offensive. This is a true gem.<br />As a tough rater, I drop the book a star because of it's formula plot. But I would rather read more books in this series (if they are all as good as this one) than some of the books to which I have given a full 5 stars.<br />This is good clean fun!	2002-04-02
US	41501058	R1IE7AYJL6YSKL	0385501501	286787770	The Street	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Surprises but no prizes	Jubal Thurgren, SEC enforecement officer, decides to conquer the deception of dot.com success on Wall Street by taking down the charismatic young head of The Street's hottest new overnight success story.<br />But little in this story is actually at it seems. The author wends the reader through surprises, twists, and deceptions of his own until the book reaches its ultimately poor ending.<br />The story begins with James Hanley, the aforementioned young man, working in a generic Wall Street brokerage where he tires of making millions for others and decides to form his own dot.com company. As he starts up his stunningly successful startup company with no product to sell, a parallel story follows Thurgren's skepticism and his efforts to shut Hanley down. Excitement follows. <br />Gruenfeld obviously has done his research on the workings of Wall Street and the dot.com industry. Unfortunately, he spends so long impressing us with his depth of knowledge that I almost gave up on the book near the halfway point. At that point, however, the first surprise sends the plot into overdrive and the reader is taken on 100-some pages of adventure, suspense, and action that make the book exteremely difficult to set down. <br />The book ends disappointingly with possibly the worst epilogue that I have ever read. It almost reads as though the epilogue were written a year or more after the novel was completed as an effort to tie up all loose ends. In doing so, however, previous plot lines are confused and characters contradict themselves. It is a real shame.	2002-03-18
US	41501058	R3KYM6J3AOZ2YK	0375421041	27158829	The Dark Room: A Novel	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Exceptional debut	There are two sides to every story. the vast majority of Holocaust literature has dealt with the victim's story. With her debut, Seiffert provocatively describes the guilt, remorse, and confusion that must exist for the German side of the Holocaust.<br />While many of us view all Germans of the World War II era as Nazis active in the genocide of unwanted groups in Europe, Seiffert shows us that this is not the case. She writes three vignette novellas on the experience of an innocent uninvolved German ; the innocent children of a Nazi officer ; and a young German man who discovers the Nazi connections of a beloved grandfather.<br />But this book is more than historical fiction. It encourages introspection. How would I respond if I were suddenly confronted with the unsvory past of a loved one?  Would I have the courage and strength to survive should life as I know it suddenly fall apart? What am I made of?<br />The three vignettes do not link at all, casting doubt on the book's billing as a \\"novel,\\" but that matters little. Seiffert creates such sympathetic characters that the reader is drawn into their plights and struglles along with them. Her prose is wonderful and the book becomes difficlut to put down.<br />I expect future great novels from Seiffert. She is a terrific writer.	2002-02-15
US	41501058	R2C6H7O67C30IW	0060194464	447220014	Holding Back the Sea: The Struggle for America's Natural Legacy on the Gulf Coast	Books	4	2	3	N	N	This is how you motivate people to save the environment	Christopher Hallowell is not your average environmentalist bemoaning the impending loss of a part of America's natural beauty. Hallowell is a writer who travelled to the Louisiana coast and fell in love with its people and wonders. Now, with Holding Back the Sea, he returns some 20+ years later and chronicles the disappearing south Louisiana coast.<br />The coast's disappearance, according to Hallowell, affects more than just the natural beauty of the area. It affects the petroleum and seafood supply for nearly half of the United States. It affects the livelihoods and a way of life for thousands of Louisianans who live and thrive in these bayou swamplands. And it puts the city of New Orleans at severe risk of disastrous hurricanes and severe flooding.<br />Hallowell presents in everyman language the history of Louisiana, and especially southern coastal Louisiana, and shows how this history for hundreds of years has had its effect on the Mississippi River and the Gulf of Mexico delta in Louisiana. He does so through very human contact with the people who live on the bayou and affect it's future.<br />It is this homey touch, this affinity for humans, that makes Hallowell's appeal so much more effective than the appeals for endangered plant life that the typical environmentalist authors bombard us with.<br />As Hallowell points out, the fight to save the Louisiana coast has been joined by environmentalists, government bureacrats, politicians, and corporations a like. And it will take all of their cooperation and wisdom to solve a problem that is only getting worse. Hallowell makes very clear the stagnation in efforts to save the coast. As a matter of fact, the way that Hallowell slips from optimism at the beginning of the book to frustration and discouragement near the end of the book, is disconcerting but likely very typical of the frustrations felt by south Louisianans.<br />I was disappointed that the book took such a discouraging turn. It is testament to how bureacracies trying to solve problems often merely stop any progress that otherwise may be made.  <br />This is a must read for politicians and others who view the loss of the Louisiana coast as inconsequential. New Orleanians beware. This book will frighten you in a very friendly way. A very good book.	2002-02-05
US	41501058	R1MATTBGFW0J02	0066210232	368890882	A Theory of Relativity	Books	4	3	5	N	N	For the love of a child	This is a beautifully written book that plumbs the depths of human identity, familial relationships and geographic bigotry.<BR>Mitchard is at her prosaic best and this is a satisfying read.<BR>  The plot details the custody struggle for an innocent toddler, Keefer, whose parents die in an automobile accident. Everyone loves Keefer but Mitchard deftly shows the difficulty that people have putting the needs of a child first when strained in-law relations, geographic distance, and muddled lines of heredity throw her custody case into the courts.<BR>  Intertwined in the struggle for Keefer's custody are the main character's struggle, as an adoptee, for the rights entitled to the rights of the rest of American society. But he also struggles with his own identity and sense of commitment. Also poignantly displayed are the biases of the wealthy and poor, the biases of Northerners vs. Southerners. And never are these biases one-sided.<BR>  Mitchard weaves such an effective tapestry and such wonderfully complete characters (even \\"minor\\" characters get a full-fledged treatment)that this book is difficult to cover with one review. It must be read.<BR>  Only two weaknesses keep this book from being perfect. There are a few unnecesraily graphic sex scenes that add little to the development of the characters and even less to the plot. They will offend some readers. <BR>  And the closing chapter of the book, while it contains some great suprises and delights, does not match the seamless construction and gentle pacing of the rest of the book. It almost seems that Mitchard was limited to a maximum number of pages and was forced to tie up all the loose ends quickly. <BR>  That criticism aside, this is a fine book.	2002-01-22
US	41501058	R378GJI5J6V9IX	0066210836	309315138	Rulers of Evil: Useful Knowledge about Governing Bodies	Books	1	16	36	N	N	Logically distorted and rambling	A supposed expose of conspiratorial corruption that ran reign over the founding of the United States and holds sway over it still, this is a major disappointment.<br />Saussy claims to have discovered the &quot;facts&quot; presented in this book during ten years on the lam from federal authorities for a crime he didn't commit. Pretty convincing credentials for the author of an anti-U.S. conspiracy book. He admits that he failed to pay taxes because of a difference in understanding with the government over tax law. His credentials as a hero, however, suffered a fatal flaw when he fled the authorities rather than present his arguments in court.<br />The government prosecutor in his tax case was a Jesuit priest and, from there, Saussy builds his weak case that the Catholic Church, via its Jesuit institutions, conspiratorially has taken over the Western world (United States included). To appeal to readers loyal to the U.S. conspiratorial camp, he even drops the names of Waco, Texas and the New World Order awkwardly into his text.<br />Disappointingly, his text is often disjointed as he struggles to maintain a coherent line of thought throughout the book. Even when the text is coherent and proceeds logically, the author's reasoning is so flawed as to create major gaps in his theory.  Most of his theory is built upon undocumented meetings between historical figures who may have passed within a hundred miles or so of each other.  His U.S. connection between the Catholic Church and the American founding fathers relies incredibly upon the falsified death and reappearance in America of the elderly &quot;Black Pope&quot; Lorenzo Ricci. Ricci's U.S. appearance relies upon questionable reports of strangers in government meetings. Only the most weak-minded will accept this as something more than silly supposition.<br />As presented here, the history of the Catholic Church and the history of revolutionary America are interesting and scattered with amusing little-known anecdotes (that may or may not be true). But few of the vital points in Saussy's theory are bolstered by legitimate documentation in the bibliography.  Many of his quotes seem to be red herrings designed to bolster his credibility. But, taken as a whole, not even those can save Saussy in this book.<br />In the book, Saussy does convince me of the Catholic Church's past corruption.  But to claim that the Church was basically built around the adoption of old Rome's mythology-based belief system is a low blow. I don't know what Saussy wished to achieve with the publication of this book, but I sincerely question his closing statement that he wants to promote Christlike love and reconciliation.	2002-01-05
US	41501058	R275JM2E7G8E9I	0688178928	735377492	The American Dream: Stories from the Heart of Our Nation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great stories, too much Rather	A more appropriate subtitle for this book might be, Those who achieved despite America's wrongs. Readers like me who come to this book expecting patriotic success stories of Americans aided by their nation's greatness will be disappointed by Rather's cynical view that hangs over this book.<br />The book is chock full of success stories that were not broadcast during Rather's &quot;American Dream&quot; segments on the CBS Evening News program.  The stories, due to Rather's fine writing skills, are inspiring, moving and heart-warming. The Americans portrayed are certainly deserving of the praise and attention this book brings them. Their stories alone make this book worth purchasing.<br />But, caveat emptor, Rather brands this book with his cynicism of what is wrong with America and how the U.S. Constitution should be viewed. He profiles the successes of the heroes in this book against the failings in American society that they had to overcome. Rather's favorite American sins? Greed, big business, the wealthy, and white men in the less-enlightened past. Word of mouth will not be good among Republican readers.<br />Rather, for the most part, shies away from famous household names in this collection. Even the people profiled in the &quot;fame&quot; chapter (with the exception perhaps of author Jacquelyn Mitchard) are not household names.  While the subtitle of the book indicates these people come from the &quot;heart&quot; of the nation, most of those profiled here come from decidedly urban environments. But that should not detract from the fine stories presented here.<br />This is a good book that could have been great if Rather would have checked his ego at the keyboard.	2001-12-23
US	41501058	RBO0XP7FJ882E	0060194251	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gangbusters!	Non-stop seafaring warfare action at its best!  Richard Sharpe is the author's heroic army officer who boards a ship expecting a noneventful return trip to England after staving off rebellion against the British government in India. Instead, he finds himself involved in the Battle of Trafalger.<br />The action never stops as Sharpe fights for the rights of outbound ship passengers, fights for the love of a beautiful woman and fights for his country.  The patriotic fervor and courage of navymen is palpable as Corwnell writes of the daily rigors and dangers of serving on the ships of the day. But, at the same time, the brutality and goriness of war is described exquisitely. I was lifted by small victories and winced at death and injury. <br />Most impressive in this novel is Cornwell's attention to historical detail. He even, much to his credit, includes a postscript at the end of the book to explain which parts of the book are fact and which are fiction. The characters are consistent and honestly portrayed. Sharpe, though heroic, is far from a saint. He breaks rules and laws to get what he wants just as he learned to get along as a homeless child. The wealthy in the book take advantage of the less fortunate to advance their desires. There is no adaptation of modern values and experience to distract from the time period here.    <br />But this is an adventure novel first and foremost. I had a difficult time putting this book down and was left wanting more when it ended. This is, unfortunately, the first book I have read in Cornwell's Sharpe series. After reading Trafalgar, it will definitely not be my last.	2001-12-10
US	41501058	RXOXGD7SUGPSL	006018633X	213875438	Nashborough: A Novel	Books	2	7	7	N	N	No epic, but an admirable freshman debut	Nashborough, in television mini-series fashion, follows the lives of two early prominent families in the fictional Southern town of Nashborough. It follows the two families from their pre-Roaring '20s days of wealthy privilege, through the crash of the great depression and all the way up to an unidentified recent time period. <BR> It is a grand attempt (400+ pages) at an epic novel that covers historical fiction of the South, an interesting plot, and social commentary of the issues that faced the South in the 20th century.<BR> At moments, it does each of these very well. The final 100 or so pages present page-turning fiction at its best. It deftly presents social commentary in spurts throughout the book (I especially enjoyed the book's subtle but effective treatment of Blacks in the South). And it's capture of certain historical elements is impressive.<BR> This book, however, does not do any of the above consistently enough to make it a recommended read. The book begins dreadfully slowly with little real action or intrigue until its midpoint. Only through dogged determination and professional pride did I reach the last part of this book that made the novel worthwhile.<BR> I never found a character that was truly likeable. As the characters deal with life's ups and downs, admirable traits are greatly overshadowed by human failings. As a general rule, the characters never resolve the errors that bring them such personal grief and end up dead or unfulfilled. <BR> Realistic though this novel may be, its plot becomes depressing and hopeless. Even the only antebellum mansion that gets restored to its former beauty becomes a ruin in the end.<BR> The author seems to have strived for an epic novel but took on more than can be done well in one novel. The brief glimpses of the historical periods were unfulfilling and disappointingly brief. The use of historical snippets to bolster the setting are too brief to provide a true setting. And the dropping of historical names becomesirritating. <BR> An impressive freshman debut, Nashborough leaves me looking forward to future, less-ambitious projects by Elsie Burch Donald. But, in Nashborough, she took on more than can be handled deftly.	2001-11-26
US	41501058	RHY44LBYZ99VC	0060194146	797079115	The Catsitters: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Male romance near its best	The new millenial male shines forth in a novel that will appeal to male and female readers alike. <br />Actor/bartender Johnny Downs is the embodiment of what every heterosexual woman has been saying she wants for the last 10-20 years. He is handsome, smart, charming, and sensitive enough to place a pet cat near the center of his single life. But, somehow, he keeps sabotaging his relationships with beautiful women. Enter the &quot;perfect&quot; gal pal to help him succeed.<br />The book swirls with romance that will appeal to women without being too overwrought for men. The plot is tight, unconfused and quickly paced. Wolcott will win no awards for elegant usage of the English language but knows how to paint a scene and touch the reader's buttons.<br />Wolcott has conquered the critic's curse. He has written a book that is very difficult to criticize. I loved virtually every moment of this book. My sole disappointments were two sex scenes in the book that I found uncomfortably graphic. Without those two moments, this is the perfect, clean, male romance novel.  I would go 4 1/2 stars if I could.	2001-10-23
US	41501058	R29PKU91PL9TLV	0385498195	953677392	John Henry Days	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Relating to John Henry	Colson Whitehead is a pleasure to read. His prose takes the reader into not just the mind but the emotions of his characters. His writing is fluid and beautiful.<br />Here he provides insight into what it may have been like to be John Henry. Around a poignant glimpse into the folk hero's personal experience as a steeldriver, Whitehead weaves keenly the fears of a black man in the backwoods South ; the soul-sapping grind of &quot;junketeering&quot; travelling journalists ; the desperation of the outcast ; and the rediscovery of a daughter's love for her deceased father.<br />The book's biggest drawback is that it has so many excellent characters and disparate storylines that Whitehead is unable to weave them all successfully into a smoothly cohesive whole. Too many ends are left unsatisfactorily untied and some intriguing characters are given short shrift in the plot. <br />This book is a bit hefty and would best have been divided into two or three books. Each could have been a satisfying and beautiful read.	2001-10-10
