US	41590372	R2QEV028PK2T6Y	0060957921	123493690	A Charge to Keep: My Journey to the White House	Books	1	43	74	N	N	A charge to *bleep*	First, let's give credit where credit is due...Karen Hughes wrote this propaganda rag, not George W. Bush. Would you expect anything more from a man who told Oprah in 2000 his favorite book was \\"The Very Hungry Caterpillar\\" and who remained engrossed in \\"My Pet Goat\\" while the second airplane struck the WTC?    I bought a hardback copy of this book when it was in the remainder bins shortly before he became president. Since I collect presidential memoirs, I decided that $5 wasn't a bad price to pay for this book. If GWB had read his own book, we wouldn't be in the mess we're in now! Where was the Bush who \\"wrote\\" in his autobiography a stunning critique of Clinton's \\"nation-building\\" and peacekeeping missions for the military to do around the world? What happened to that Bush? Don't tell me 9/11 \\"changed everything\\", because it hasn't. Ever since the collapse of the Soviet Union, neo-cons have been searching for the enemy of their wet dreams. In the 1990s, Clinton filled the role of \\"enemy of the state\\" for awhile, now its Muslim terrorists, who are limited by their means and numbers to do anything like what we're doing to Iraq and Afghanistan.    If Bush had spent a little  more time reading what Karen Hughes wrote, his foreign policy wouldn't be a mess right now. Heck, if he even listened to his father about the reasons not to go after Saddam once Kuwait was liberated, we wouldn't be in this mess.    When Bush leaves office, I hope he doesn't get Karen Hughes to write his presidential memoirs. It would be the most boring one of them all to read. Nothing but miserable failure on every front. But that shouldn't surprise us. Bush is a man who has failed in every thing he did. He turned tail and missed a year of Guard Duty when they wanted a drug test; he ran his three companies into the ground, he traded away Sammy Sosa to the Cubs, and now he's running the ship of state into an iceberg with a war that his successor will have to clean up, deficits his successor will have to solve by raising taxes, and the bungling of FEMA, which will be felt for decades in the Gulf coast. Face it...Bush is the worst president ever. If he had read Karen Hughes' book, he wouldn't be in the kind of trouble he is in now. He can't preach responsibility when his every act has been reckless for other people to clean up. Read this book for the fiction it is: Governor Bush pretending to be a \\"compassionate\\" conservative to mask the reality of his cutthroat capitalistic impulses. The way things are going, he might be the first president to face a War Crimes Tribunal.	2005-09-28
US	41590372	R3F8KXTOWR31EJ	0060924926	98800983	Further Tales of the City	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not as good as the first two, but entertaining nonetheless	This novel picks up five years after \\"More Tales of the City\\".  but it doesn't really pick up until the second half of the novel, when the plot revolves around the mysterious Luke, a homeless man with a shack in Golden Gate Park. Mona Ramsey is not in this one and Anna Madrigal is hardly seen until halfway through the novel. I was surprised, as Anna is the focal point of the series and my favorite of the characters.    The basic plot of this novel continues the storyline that began in \\"More Tales...\\" when DeeDee Halcyon Day ran off to Guyana to join members of the People's Temple in Jim Jones' nightmarish utopia.  When \\"Further Tales...\\" begins, the massacre at Jonestown had happened, leaving DeeDee's mother severely depressed and lonely (her husband Edgar died at the end of \\"Tales of the City\\", her son-in-law died in \\"More Tales...\\", and now she's despondent that her daughter seems to have died as well). Mary Ann Singleton is now the host of a daytime show where she introduces classic movies; and her relationship with the womanizing Brian has grown into couplehood. Michael Tolliver, we discover, is no longer with Jon and living out his fantasy of hooking up with cops, movie stars, and construction workers.    This novel rests on the entire fallout of the Jim Jones tragedy and it kept me up late as I wanted to read chapter after chapter. Armistead continues his brilliant pacing, dialogue, and intriguing twists, all elements that make this, like the others, an addictive reading pleasure. By the end, the situation involving the kidnapping of children and a wild goose chase resolves itself in an interesting manner, reminding me a little bit about how the first novel ended. To reveal any more is to give away the surprises, so this is one you should read to discover for yourself. Ultimately though, I think \\"More Tales from the City\\" is the best of the three I've read and I found this one a pale imitation. I do plan to read the other three novels in this series, because the characters are people I can visualize and have come to know as friends I'd love to have. I only wish that Anna played a larger role in this one.	2005-07-30
US	41590372	R3I488AU1BYLWQ	0861714970	880980086	The Dharma of Star Wars	Books	5	40	44	N	N	The Force is strong with this one!	I immediately bought this book when I saw it on display in the bookstore, without needing to flip through and read passages. I believe that the \\"Star Wars\\" films are the most spiritual films ever made, as the story is soaked in classic mythological motifs with heavy borrowing from Buddhist ideas about how our universe works. This book is written by a \\"Star Wars\\" fan, so he knows his material, and because he's also a Buddhist, he is able to write the main tenets of Buddhism in easy to understand concepts for anyone familiar with the Star Wars characters. <br /> <br />When I saw \\"The Phantom Menace\\" in 1999, I was baffled by the amount of backlash that film inspired in fans. The film expanded our knowledge of \\"the Force\\" and I remember getting chills when Qui-Gon Jinn told Anakin: \\"remember, your focus determines your reality.\\" That line sums up my spiritual beliefs in a perfect phrase and I'm glad to read that the author of this book mentioned that several times as well. Another thing that the author brilliantly picked up on was the character of Jar Jar Binks, which so many fans HATED with an unbelievable passion. I happened to love Jar Jar Binks and I don't think it was accidental that Lucas made him as annoying as he was. The name \\"Jar Jar\\" should clue anyone in to Lucas' point...being so close to the word \\"jarring\\". This book will have you seeing Jar Jar Binks in a totally new light and I'm glad someone pointed it out so Lucas doesn't have to spell it out for everyone. <br /> <br />In \\"Attack of the Clones\\", my favorite of the new trilogy, I got chills when I saw the ethereal glowing blue in the Jedi library and the scene where Obi-Wan tries to find Kamino with his three dimensional galaxy map. Those scenes are some of the most spiritual-intuitive scenes I've ever seen in ANY movie. For one thing, I believe the library in heaven looks similar to the Jedi library and I look forward to perusing its database someday. <br /> <br />This book makes a great introductionto Buddhism and I certainly will refer back to highlighted passages because I believe in the Eightfold Path, especially being mindful of our present and calming the mind before we panic or jump to hasty conclusions. Anyone who thinks Buddhism is a false religion simply hasn't investigated it and tried it. The world would be a vastly improved place if people attempted to live its principles and practiced mindfulness. <br /> <br />I also appreciated the author writing a chapter on the Jedi's tendency to kill...as that isn't a spiritual principle but I think for the sake of the movies, Lucas had little choice but to use that for his story. The good thing is that he doesn't show the violence. The author is correct, though, about how a spiritual person simply cannot take another human life, no matter how compassionate we may think we are in the act. Killing is still depriving a person of changing...thus makes Luke Skywalker's decision not to kill the Emperor or Darth Vader all the more profound. <br /> <br />This book will make an excellent companion to \\"Christian Wisdom of the Jedi Masters\\" and \\"The Tao of Star Wars\\"...as all three books pick up on the ideas, scenes and characters of the greatest film series in the history of humanity and present the spiritual concepts in an easy to understand manner. But I think this one is the best of the three...because its closer to \\"The Force\\" than the others.	2005-06-10
US	41590372	R16TK1RL8TAZFY	0787978949	380414402	Christian Wisdom of the Jedi Masters	Books	4	11	16	N	N	About time Christians stop critiquing Star Wars!	When I was a teenager, I remember at Sunday School, we used material from Focus on the Family (Dr. James Dobson's organization) and when one lesson critiqued Star Wars as a pagan-influenced film and \\"Empire\\" especially for its \\"Buddhist concepts\\", our Sunday School class voted to drop use of Focus on the Family for our lessons. That was back in 1989 and I've never liked Dr. Dobson since (as I've learned more about him).    In the late 1990s, when I learned about how George Lucas was inspired by Joseph Campbell and his study of ancient mythologies to create the brilliant \\"Star Wars\\" saga, that got me interested in learning Joseph Campbell. There's nothing \\"evil\\" or \\"pagan\\" or even \\"anti-Christian\\" in learning about how other mythologies influenced story-tellers and religions through the ages. Unless Christians realize this fact, they will continue to lose out to popular culture and become as irrelevant as Zeus and Medusa.    I saw this book and it piqued my curiosity. I wanted to see if the writer had an anti-Star Wars bias or was he willing to examine the ideas in the film series in relation to Christian viewpoints. Fortunately, he is not like James Dobson...that is to say, he's not threatened by the big ideas presented by Star Wars. This book is amazing and necessary, as the writer ties in ideas to Christian ideas without stretching the point to where it doesn't fit. Fortunately, the writer seems to be advocating a kind of Christian life I'm familiar with...one consistent with Jesus' call to help the poor and afflicted, the commitment to peace and nonviolence, etc. He doesn't try to distort the message of the Star Wars films by advancing the conservative/fundamentalist Christian line that supports wars, unfiltered capitalistic greed and compassionless economics...he sticks with the Jesus of the New Testament and early Christians who stood up to the Roman Empire. Thus, the writer has good credibility with me and this is a book I'd love to teach in my church's youngadult Sunday School class.    The reason I subtract a star is because the writer totally got \\"karma\\" wrong. In one chapter, he criticizes George Lucas for his decision to change Han Solo's firing at Greedo first in the special edition of \\"Star Wars: A New Hope\\" because Lucas believes that killing without reason means there can be no hope of redemption (which isn't true if you follow the trajectory of Anakin Skywalker to his ultimate redemption). The writer tries to say that this view is what karma is. That is not true. Karma is simply the Golden Rule...a universal law much like the law of physics (for every action there is an opposite and equal reaction). Karma is any action that returns to the originator of such action. If you do evil, evil will come back to you. If you do good, good will come back to you. That's all it is. To distort it as something else hurts one's credibility a bit. To me, it seems like a lot of Christians are threatened by karma...even though no one should be. Jesus taught a principle of karma and if we all lived by the law of karma, we would have nothing to fear. Only people who commit evil acts want karma to be untrue, because they don't want to pay the price of their sins.    Other than that one glaring error, I recommend this book for study, as it will help people become better Christians and that is a good thing. Too many people have fallen away from Christianity because of the hypocritical leaders. Anything that helps people understand what Jesus really was about is a good thing.	2005-05-24
US	41590372	R1FMVPYRWANY1Z	0974537632	879577318	A Deficit of Decency	Books	1	34	92	N	N	Zig Zag Zell has no credibility	Save your money, folks. The only reason conservatives love Zell Miller is because they wanted to hear a Democrat say bad things about the party he had long been a member of. But when a Republican defects (think Senator Jeffolds of Vermont), they don't like it either. Here's a newsflash about Zell Miller...he was Governor of Georgia from 1990 to 1998 and in 1992, he spoke at the Democratic Convention praising Clinton and saying all kinds of bile things about President G.H.W. Bush. He supported Clinton in 1996 and Gore in 2000. What changed? Both the conservative and liberal critique of Governor Zell Miller was his habit of putting his finger to the political winds to see which way it blew. Zell Miller is probably the only person in America who loves and supports both Clinton and Bush. Why? Because its politically convenient of him to do so. Interesting that so many Clinton-haters on the right, who ran attack ads against Governor Zell's reelection in 1994, portraying him as tied to President Clinton, are the same ones who embraced him at the 2004 Republican Convention. What's even worse about his speech at the RNC was that his was the most outrageous, angry and hateful speech since Pat Buchanan's in 1992. He's a sap who played into Bush's hands, and after Bush's reelection, poor Zell is now tossed to the curb. He was politically expendable and didn't realize it. Trust me, as a resident of Georgia...Zell earned his nickname of \\"zig zag zell\\" for a reason, and it was mostly conservative Republicans who called him that as Governor. After all, in 1994, he defeated the Christian Coalition supported candidate Guy Millner. Don't waste your money on his latest drivel. Ann Coulter has more credibility. Zell only zig zags to where he thinks people are, but conservatives and liberals shouldn't trust him. He stands for nothing. The Democrats didn't \\"leave\\" him. He doesn't stand still long enough to fit in any group. I'm glad that the Republicans have embraced him, because Zell has long been an embarrassment to the diversity of Democratic Party. He's just another angry white man who reminisces about the \\"Good ole' days\\" of the segregated 1950s, when white men ruled, women were barefoot and pregnant, waiting by the door with a glass of wine, and African Americans sat in the back of buses. No, the Democratic Party never left him...he's still stuck in the 1950s. America changed...Zell hasn't. I'm serious, folks...instead of buying this book, send your money to a worthwhile cause you support. It'll be money better spent.	2005-04-29
US	41590372	R293MY8JQFDU24	0446532436	967980395	True Believer	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not quite a true believer...yet	I've read nearly all of Nicholas Sparks' novels (I still haven't read \\"Message in a Bottle\\"...only because I thought the movie was boring), and I looked forward to this one, his first novel in a year and a half (since \\"The Wedding\\", released in September 2003). The premise was intriguing...a hotshot New York City journalist who specializes in debunking myths and other supernatural phenomenon travels to a small town in North Carolina to investigate a haunted cemetery. With a premise like that, I really looked forward to reading it. <br /> <br />After finishing it, I did feel a little bit let down, as the story didn't amount to much. The love story was reminiscent of \\"Doc Hollywood\\" (as one reviewer correctly pointed out) and it seemed as though Mr. Sparks was looking for any way to debunk his \\"ghost story\\" with some confusing bits of logic to explain the phenomenon. What I gather is...does he not believe that there are actual hauntings? That anyone out there who claims a haunting is automatically to be assumed to be a fraud? I thought it would be more interesting to go that route and explore it in depth, but this is a LOVE STORY first and foremost, with the plot secondary. <br /> <br />Mr. Sparks gives every reason why the two main characters should not be together (they are opposites in practically everything, so that means one of them will have to make a huge sacrifice to be with the other). Jeremy Marsh lived all his life in New York City and his family and five brothers all live close to their parents in Queens, each having families of their own. Lexie Darnell lived in New York City for a short time but didn't like it, so she returned to her small town in North Carolina and works as a library. She is adamant about not wanting to leave, so that means Jeremy must do all the sacrificing to \\"prove his love\\". While there are some cliches straight out of the \\"romantic comedy genre of films\\" (the climax is always some crisis that drives the couple apart, until one or both realizes that they can't live without the other). In this case, I didn't totally buy it at the end, that someone had to prompt Jeremy to return to North Carolina one last time. <br /> <br />Mr. Sparks' writing is improving though. I found this novel funnier than his previous ones, with fresher dialogue and crisper writing. He avoided the cliche of the white picket fence, and that got a huge boost for me to like this book. I'd rate this one as my second favorite Nicholas Sparks Novel (after \\"The Rescue\\" and before \\"The Wedding\\"). I didn't even try to predict the ending of this novel as I usually do with his other ones, because I wanted to read this with an open mind and let him take us where he wanted us to go. If anyone is unsatisfied with the ending...it probably has to do with the fact that its a cliffhanger ending on purpose. \\"At First Sight\\" is the sequel to this one and will be released in September and I do look forward to reading that one.	2005-04-26
US	41590372	R1ZN08YJ9YKKUM	0571221246	652394659	The Donnie Darko Book	Books	5	42	49	N	N	More than just a screenplay	I like how popular films can cause a demand in which the screenplay is released in book form for all those inspiring actors and screenwriters out there to read, act and learn from.  Most of them are just the screenplay and nothing else, so its a pleasant surprise to see one like this, which includes a lengthy interview with the writer/director, some drawings, and a peek at the prop Time travel book by Roberta Sparrow.  Some overzealous fans mistakenly thought it was a real book and on the Director's Cut dvd, you see a special documentary by one such fan who demanded of the director the rest of this fictional book.  Give Director Richard Kelly a break...the book was nothing more than a prop for the film's characters.    This book is worth having for any Donnie Darko fan.  For me, the best part of the book is the interview, as it is nice to hear the thoughts and ideas of Richard Kelly about his famous first movie.  What he says embodies a lot of our generation in terms of cultural influences and how we grew up...a world perhaps vastly different to the current generation growing up in the hip-hop drenched, corporate universe.  This book will be a keepsake for that distant future, when Richard Kelly will be known as our generation's Steven Spielberg, with a library of unique films.  Don't expect to find this book then, because it'll probably be out of print and hard to find.  Get it now when its still available!  Donnie Darko is probably the film that will still be remembered 25 years from now.	2005-03-22
US	41590372	R244JX1MZ2HQDP	0060929383	490087791	More Tales of the City	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Continuation with more surprise twists and intrigue	After I finished reading the first novel at a friend's insistence, I was so hooked by the end of it that I got the Omnibus of the first three novels and one of the final three novels so I can continue reading the saga of the residents of Barbary Lane. <br /> <br />The first half of this novel, I thought was better than the first novel, as I simply couldn't put the book down.  I had to read \\"just one more\\" chapter, and since most chapters ran no more than three pages or so, one chapter turned into several chapters.  The different story lines are interspersed, and I found that my curiosity switched from one to another as I read more.  Some story lines didn't interest me (regarding DeeDee Halcyon Day and her mother), while others had me hooked (Mona Ramsey's vacation to a ranch in Nevada where she has an amazing coincidence that reveals a deeper connection between her and another character).  I also enjoyed reading about Mary Ann Singleton and Michael Mouse Tolliver as they grow closer in friendship and take a cruise to Mexico together.  On the cruise, they meet a man whom they don't know if he'd go for Mary Ann or Michael, and some of the wit apparent in the dialogue is laugh out loud funny.  The plot moves towards a strange, and a bit far fetched, conclusion built around a mystery of one man's amnesia and the bits he remembers and some odd personality quirks.  I didn't find their discovery to be realistic, but its not enough to take away from my enjoyment of the novel.  Overall, I still like the first one better, but I'm really glad to see a continuation of these characters.  The ending hints of things to come, so of course I plan to read the rest of the series in the next month or two.  Like the first novel, the dialogue is simply amazing, full of wit, and laugh out loud funny.  Armistead Maupin is a conversational genius and knows how to hook a reader.  My only critique would be more time spent on descriptions, offering more details and observations.  These novelsread like a screenplay, but that's probably a big reason why this novel is so easy to read through.  I can't wait to read what will happen next!	2005-03-03
US	41590372	R13G0YNIKHSNC4	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Surprisingly funny in a laugh out loud way	A friend of mine insisted that I read this novel, even though I had just watched the mini-series and was satisfied with that, so I committed myself to reading it, surprised to find the humor on the page, even though the mini-series was quite loyal to the book.  There is more info one can gleen from the book that is lacking in the movie, but the performances of the movie really enhance some of the humorous lines that's not apparent from just reading it.  I'd recommend reading the book first, then watching the mini-series. <br /> <br />Its hard not to be taken in by this novel.  Its very easy to read in bit sized chunks.  The book tends to be dialogue heavy and skimpy on the descriptions, but you still get a lot of value out of reading.  The characters and their diverse personalities come alive, the wit is apparent, and you can't help but feel like these are real people you wish you could meet.  There are so many good lines in this book that are worth quoting, anyone who dreams of becoming a screenwriter or any writer period should read this novel as an intro course to believable dialogue. <br /> <br />Mona is probably my favorite character, because she's the most eccentric.  She moans the lack of males in her life, except for her gay best friend, making her the quintessential \\"fag hag\\".  The scenes with her and Michael \\"Mouse\\" Tolliver, and her and D'Orothea (the foxy black model with a secret) are some of the funniest in the entire novel.  Overall, I like how all the characters are connected somehow, whether intimitely or casually, and how it all plays out against the backdrop of a great American city.  My only complaint is that there should have been more descriptive writing, because it comes across as a screenplay written in novel form.  I do plan to read the rest of the series...especially before I watch the other mini-series adaptations.  For good laughs and some of the best, wittiest lines I've ever read, add this novel to your reading list.  You won't be disappointed.	2005-02-01
US	41590372	RBVMVUOGXS8T5	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Crichton is back in fine form with this latest	Michael Crichton is my favorite living writer and this novel has reconfirmed that for me.  People can argue whether his characters are real or cardboard, but that's not the point.  Crichton is a plot-driven writer, not a character-driven one (there is a difference, for those who know about different writing styles--there's a place for character-driven stories, but Crichton is not that kind of writer).  The whole focus of his novels is to get you to turn the page, to keep you up late at night eager to find out what happens next, and to maybe learn a few things you didn't know before.  That's why he's my favorite.  I like his writing style, how he takes complex information and can turn it into readable, easy to understand language, while maintaining the suspense and keep you up at night wanting to see how it all ends.  That's brilliance! <br /> <br />What surprises me most about Crichton is his uncanny knack for tapping into issues for a storyline which seems to coincide with newspaper headlines once his novel is published.  This happened a few times before, with genetics and cloning in \\"Jurassic Park\\", with his critique of Japanese business tactics in \\"Rising Sun\\" (which was published amid the anti-Japanese sentiments over trade in early 1992), his plot about sexual harassment in \\"Disclosure\\" (when it was big news in the early 1990s), the airline industry in \\"Airframe\\" (in 1996, when there were two devastating airplane crashes), artificial intelligence in \\"Prey\\", and now tsunamis with \\"State of Fear\\".  Crichton simply is a visionary writer who seems to be able to see around corners before things happen, writes about them, and events have a way of almost validating the information he puts across to readers in his works. <br /> <br />I was uncertain about the current novel at first, because I had received a flyer advertising this book from a book club I belong to which claimed that it couldn't reveal anything about the plot, but guaranteed high quality suspense.  Crichton is a writer who doesn't need hype in order to sell books, so I was a bit turned off by that advertisement.  I buy his books in hardback, period.  There's no need to keep things a secret in order to intrigue the public into buying the book or speculating on the plot.  When I read the early reviews that it was about Global Warming/Environmentalism, I thought it was going to be lame.  After all, the film \\"The Day After Tomorrow\\" wasn't exactly a great picture if you take away the special effects, and I thought maybe Crichton didn't want to seem like a copycat that his novel came out after that film, even though he spent years of research and writing this novel before anyone even heard of that film. <br /> <br />Not to worry...this novel keeps to the Crichton formula that works, which is plot-driven, with enough documentation to lend authenticity to the information he gives to readers in the guise of different characters.  The opening scenes were unnecessary, particularly the one in Paris.  It hints at things that will come later, but by the end of the novel, you begin to wonder why even include the Paris scenes.  He could have cut it out and the novel still would have worked, perhaps even better.  It was unnecessary drama, probably to enhance the mystery and intrigue of the novel. <br /> <br />Crichton presents an interesting view that Global Warming and those who advocate it are doing so for various reasons, one of them apparently as a means of controlling the population through fear.  The environmentalists are the bad guys in this one, who use the adage, \\"the ends justify the means\\" to carry out their sinister plans in order to increase public awareness of the impending threat of Global Warming.  Add to the mix, a bunch of Crichton characters who are little more than mouthpieces for different beliefs/agendas, and you get an education reading this novel.  If anything, Crichton gets you to think about alternative viewpoints, and that's a good thing.  While I don'tnecessarily agree with some of his views, I do think he makes interesting points that one cannot easily dismiss, particularly the one chapter featuring Professor Norman Hoffman, who explains to the protagonist, Peter Evans, about our current state of media manipulation, which keeps our society constantly on the edge of fear for no other reason than to keep us docile and content with the status quo, while the people with money and power make off like bandits.  We get too easily distracted by our fears, when bigger issues are being ignored.  Unfortunately, Professor Hoffman, the most interesting character in this novel, only appears in two chapters and that's it.  His only purpose is to share information about the \\"state of fear\\" we live in, as the rest of the novel focuses on the environmental group called NERF and we don't hear anything more about the state of fear as espoused by Hoffman. <br /> <br />I do appreciate Crichton's sense of humor as even Hollywood types aren't spared a skewering.  One character, easily the most amusing character in this novel, Ted Bradley is an actor who played the president in a recently cancelled television show, and is along for the adventure.  He's a big time environmental activist and has some amusing arguments with a lawyer and another professor (not Hoffman, but Kenner).  Kenner can cut people down to size in an instant, exposing their hypocrisy and thereby discrediting their arguments instantaneously, such as asking devastating questions of a Hollywood type who is big in the environmental movement what kind of car she drives and how big her family and home is.  The whole point is to show that while Hollywood pontificates about how people should live their lives to be environmentally conscious/aware and politically correct, they themselves live extravagent lives and find convenient excuses for doing so (\\"I only live in a mansion because my job requires me to entertain\\" or \\"I only drive an SUV because I have young children\\" type of arguments).  Its right on, but of course, the inevitable question comes up in my own mind as I read that...how big is Crichton's house anyway? <br /> <br />This novel is vaguely reminiscent of \\"Jurassic Park\\" with a small splash of \\"Congo\\" (a terrifying cannibalism scene on a South Pacific island).  Its exceptional in its delivery, though it drags a bit in the mid-section.  The last 100 pages are excellent and gripping, I simply couldn't put the book down at that point and had to read it through to the very end, even though it was 3:30 a.m. and caused me to be late to work the next day.  This novel is Crichton back in fine form, after the disappointing \\"Prey\\", and it stands up well next to my Crichton favorites (\\"Congo\\", \\"Jurassic Park\\", \\"Timeline\\" and \\"Disclosure\\").  Well worth reading, digesting, debating, and learning more about the issues he writes about.	2005-01-22
US	41590372	R1HQKF2DNVTF33	0878333053	668276689	Kerouac: The Definitive Biography	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Definitely Definitive!	This is the sixth biography on Jack Kerouac that I've read and the one I like the most.  Though not as comprehensive as \\"Memory Babe\\" by Gerald Nicosia (the longest biography on Kerouac thus far) or as analytical as \\"Subterranean Kerouac\\", this one was written with greater access to Kerouac's unpublished archives and new interviews by the author of people who knew Kerouac.  The author did a respectful job on the subject, but doesn't gloss over the flaws of Kerouac, especially in the later chapters when Kerouac becomes an alcoholic nuisance to everyone who knew and loved him.  Its a sad arc of a brilliant life ruined by his own success. <br /> <br />Ann Charters might get the credit for being the first biography of Kerouac, while Tom Clark has the easiest to read biography of Kerouac, but anyone who is a fan of the Beat Generation and the lead writer, should read this one, along with \\"Memory Babe.\\"  If you can stand revisiting Kerouac's life again and again from different perspectives, then try \\"Subterranean Kerouac\\" and Tom Clark's biography. <br /> <br />I also love the cover photo of this book and the way chapters are laid out, with various yet relevant quotes to start each chapter, and well thought out chapter titles.  He does Kerouac justice, featuring well annotated end notes and other interesting items in an appendix.  If you only read one Kerouac biography, this is the one you must read for a good understanding of Kerouac and his difficult life.  There is only one major flaw in this book, and its a typo that I'm surprised no one caught before publication.  Apparently, the publisher added a sentence or two that Paul Maher wrote to his editor or agent that should not have been included into the narrative.  It was confusing at first, but when I figured out what probably happened, I just had to laugh.  Even publishing companies aren't perfect about catching mistakes like that before publication.	2004-12-31
US	41590372	RBJIQ3RNWCACE	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Poorly contrived Holiday satire	I don't know what John Grisham was thinking when he published this a few years ago to add his voice to the growing list of holiday-themed, sentimental novellas that are mostly dripping in saccharine sweetness.  Perhaps it presented a nice break from writing legal thrillers, since he certainly didn't write it for the money.  This is the kind of hack work that only a best selling writer can get away with publishing and dumping on his fans who must read every book he writes.  This mini-novel is skimpy on the details and words, making it an easy breeze to read through during the busiest season of the year.<br /><br />When I started reading it, I thought it was going to be an interesting satire on how commercialized our Christmas season has become.  It certainly leads readers in that direction as we root for the Kranks when they decline to buy fruitcakes, trees, and calendars from the town's firemen, Boy Scouts, and police.  They forgo their annual Christmas party, to the disappointment of everyone else who considers it the social highlight of their year. Everyone in this novella seems to be too interested in what the Kranks are doing or not doing, as if it was against the law to skip Christmas.  By the end, I was glad to finish this piece of tripe.  What is the point of this story?  The Kranks end up having to rush Christmas in six hours so all can appear normal to their surprise return of their daughter and her new fiance, whom she had just met a month prior.  Very poorly contrived story.  Grisham fans won't lose sleep if they skip this one.  It's a novel that should never have been published, one that should have remained in Grisham's file cabinet of unworkeable manuscripts.  To pawn it on his fans is nothing short of greed.	2004-12-18
US	41590372	R2K7OOM2BMUXY3	0821228900	628353087	Bohemian Manifesto: A Field Guide to Living on the Edge	Books	5	28	40	N	N	Finally--a book for Bohemians to call their own	I was thrilled when I first saw this book sitting on a bookshelf of a large chain bookstore.  It's an amazing find and I thought it was about time that someone came out with a book that explains what Bohemian is for those who don't have a clue.  Bohemianism is something I first heard about in the late 1980s when Edie Brickell sang about \\"What I Am\\" with her band, called \\"The New Bohemians\\" and I realized that I found the perfect culture category that fits my way of being.  This book is a great manual for anyone who finds himself/herself outside the norms of the conformist, corporate, capitalist mindset and culture, and it's also great for non-Bohemians if they are curious about understanding what Bohemianism is all about.  I like how the author subdivides Bohemians into smaller subsets, like Beat, Zen, and others.  A lot of the descriptions of personality traits and quirks were so dead-on that I laughed in recognition of my own tendencies that fit the description (such as my discomfort riding in an SUV because it goes against who I am as a person; my lifelong fondness for a life on the road, the Citroen 2CV; why I get bored easily in the same job and baffle friends, family and co-workers alike by shunning job security for adventure and new experiences).<br /><br />The art in this book is fantastic!  They add a lot to this book, providing interesting visuals of style.  This manual is a must have for anyone who is dissatisfied with the conformist, corporate lifestyle of bland suburbia and keeping up with the Hiltons mode of living.  Bohemians will always be at the forefront of cultural/literary/artistic trends and don't care who knows it or not.  It's about time someone with enough brilliance and humor came up with this idea and put it out there for public consumption.  My only regret is that if non-Bohemians read this book, they might want to become bohemians too (or maybe crossbreeds like Bourgeois Bohemians--BoBos for short).  The fact is, not everyone can be a bohemian or should...but for those who can't fit into the mainstream of our bland Walmart culture, you just may very well be a Bohemian, so get this book, read it and find your own bohemian style!	2004-12-18
US	41590372	R2443OITIIHMI4	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Highly relevant book	Although this book was written in 1984, the ideas in it are still relevant to today's world, even moreso now than back then.  This is one book that I wish he would update with new chapters, because a lot of the critiques he made when he wrote this have taken on new meaning in the events of just this new century alone.  For instance, his main critique is how entertainment has infiltrated our culture with a focus on trivia rather than substance.  No where is this more apparent than a state recalling a governor a year after he had won reelection by a significant number, and that such a governor was run out of office in favor of an ACTOR, who many hope the U.S. Constitution will be amended so he can seek even higher office!  This, despite the number of conservatives who tell Hollywood actors to shut up about politics in the run up to the Iraq war.  Politics used to be showbusiness for ugly people, but now its nothing more than an extension of showbusiness.  Even televangelists are critiqued in Postman's book because of the lack of sacred boundaries that television does not have as compared to a place of worship. <br /> <br />When I read this book, I can see examples that have cropped up in the 1990s that have proven his thesis true.  Cell phones is one example.  Ever eavesdrop on another person's public cell phonecall?  I'm shocked at the trivial minutaie that people discuss with whomever they are speaking to, as if what they are doing at that moment matters to another person.  What we get in a society that always seeks amusement for fear of boredom is a constant barrage of images and distractions that don't really mean anything in the end.  The way we teach our children in schools to study for the multiple guess tests instead of teaching them interconnected facts that build a story, a history, an appreciation for the interconnectedness of our planet.  So, we end up with people who can pull facts out of their rears to succeed on gameshows like \\"Who Wants to be a Millionaire?\\", where one question and answer doesn't relate to the next one.  No wonder why people can't see a connection between our war in Iraq and our consumption of oil. <br /> <br />Postman is right...a society that seeks one entertaining thrill after another cannot survive and endure history's challenges for very long.  When many people in the world haven't had their basic living needs met (food, water, shelter) while we are looking for the next entertaining thrill, what does that say about us?  Why has amusement become such a huge, moneymaking value to our culture?  When will we learn to balance entertainment with relevant issues that require serious study and attention?  Why is our thirst for entertainment so unquenchable that now we're not satisfied with Hollywood's outpouring, but we expect entertainment from our politicians as well?  These are questions that inevitably came up as I read this book.  I really hope that Neil Postman will write a follow-up or update this book with minor changes (substituting references like \\"The A Team\\" and \\"Dallas\\" for \\"CSI\\" and \\"Desperate Housewives\\" for instance) and new chapters (like the phenomenon of Jesse Ventura and Schwartzenegger as governors; the use of cell phones for minutaie details; and the proliferation of reality television shows).  But despite that, this is worth a serious read and discussion.	2004-12-07
US	41590372	R21HDIDC11OFVK	0312300786	433898447	Trials of the Monkey: An Accidental Memoir	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not quite what I expected, but engaging and educational	I was interested in reading this book because I knew a person who went with a group to see the Scopes Trial reenactment in the mid-1990s, and I was pleasantly surprised to see Matthew Chapman mention them with a one sentence acknowledgement in his book (yes, a group of atheists from Atlanta, it has to be them!).  I really enjoyed reading this account of a British person's perspective on the South and the Bible Belt.  He's a self-admitted atheist who struggles with religion because of all the inconsistencies (which any honest person will admit that religion has a lot of), but the surprise is that he also admits to having a certain kind of admiration towards people of faith, because of the effect it has on believers that he never got.  He's quite honest about his own past and unfortunately goes into too much detail about his sexual discoveries as a teenager, which I didn't think fit well with the main premise behind this book. <br /> <br />This book is kind of two books in one, and while I bought it for information on the Scopes Trial (which I did learn quite a bit more than the little I knew about it--since he goes into fascinating detail about the trial itself), I didn't expect it to be his biography/memoir also.  He alternates every few chapters between these two story lines and I thought it was too much focused on his own back history, which wasn't really fascinating to me (sorry guy, but your sexual exploits aren't worth bragging about!).  A lot of it was focused on his troubled relations with his alcoholic mother, with one long, drawn out chapter about her death and funeral.  I didn't see what that had to do with the Scopes Monkey Trial, and my guess is that he figured that he was only going to get one published book and it would be his only opportunity to tell his life story, now that he captured our attention with the premise of the Scopes Trial.  That's the reason why I subtract a star.  If he had slimmed down his life story/memoir and focused more on the Scopes Trial, I would have enjoyed this book a lot more and given it five stars.  As it is, it is interesting, and I suppose you can skip the chapters on his life story and still enjoy it tremendously.  I absolutely agree with his main tenets of a personal religion/faith he feels a need to develop:  1) responsibility to self; 2) responsibility to family and friends; and 3) responsibility to the world at large.  His critiques of religion and materialism are right on, but he seemed to hint at his own life being driven by society's ratrace (his daughter goes to a private school in NYC, he drives an SUV, and he claims that even though he makes over a million dollars a year writing screenplays, he's having financial difficulties...sounds like he's living beyond his means, if you ask me and anyone who makes that much money and still has debt problems isn't going to get my sympathy).  By the way, I bought this book marked down in price at a discount bookstore, so I hope I'm not contributing to his \\"affluent lifestyle\\".  Stay on the spiritual path, Chapman!  And listen to your wife more.  She sounds really cool.	2004-12-07
US	41590372	RK312AK0LBTHF	0312328478	431022631	The Preservationist	Books	4	19	22	N	N	A great retelling of an unbelievable Bible story	This novel captured my attention because of the wonderful cover art, one of the best I've seen.  Last year, I read the great \\"Life of Pi\\" and enjoyed that story so much, I guess I wanted to read a similar novel...spiritual story of people at sea with a bunch of animals.  For anyone who loves \\"The Life of Pi\\", I recommend checking out this novel.    I've always had a lot of difficulty with the whole Noah's Ark story, because the idea of ancient man creating a big enough boat to hold two of every species on earth for months (plus the constant feeding and waste removal), that a perfect, all knowing God would become angry enough to kill all of His creation save Noah's family instead of punishing only the guilty, along with the idea of the whole earth under water (which would have to cover the peak of Mount Everest) always seemed a bit far fetched to me.  It makes an interesting fictional account and I'm glad that a writer was confident enough to sketch out the details of the Biblical story.    What this novel presents is a very interesting character drama, written from different points of view, which I really enjoyed.  I found myself liking the women a lot.  They were clever thinkers and intelligent, and I especially liked the part about one of them using knowledge of a coming eclipse of the sun to scare a group of thuggish men to follow her lead.  The sentences are well crafted and an immense joy to read.  My favorite character is Chem, the more independent son of Noe, and the one who struggles the most in his faith, yet dutifully helps in the building of the ark and keeping up the maintenance while they are afloat.  He's not a bad guy at all...just doesn't understand what kind of God would do the kind of things to His creation that they all were witness to and saved from.    Even when delivered to safety to begin human society anew, God still makes demands of Noe, which can be seen as a test of his faith and devotion.  Though a slim read, it is worth one's time and won't take long to finish.  When I finished reading it, it made me want to go back to the Biblical account of the great flood.  I believe this author has found a unique niche and I would love to see his take on other Bible stories.  This novel would make an excellent reading selection in Sunday School, if churches are willing to have their own book reading clubs.  There are a few profanities and mentions of procreation...but it's done quite tastefully and shouldn't embarrass even the most sensitive of readers.  I recommend this novel.	2004-11-20
US	41590372	R26NW7IMKR7973	1400032903	437281256	Bangkok 8: A Royal Thai Detective Novel (1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Impressive International thriller!	I'm not a fan of crime dramas, but when a magazine recommended this book in its summer reading list, I was intrigued by the review.  I haven't read a novel featuring a Thai protagonist, with a setting in Thailand, so this novel was a definite must read for me.  I loved that it featured Buddhist way of thinking about any number of issues, and especially how this novel throws a lot of information out to the reader in the course of telling a standard police investigation mystery.  Because of that, I felt like I was learning a lot about Thailand as I read the novel, such as the bribery system and how Thais view it, the sex industry in relation to the economic divide between developing nations and the industrial world, and the clash of cultures in police procedures.  The main character, Detective Sonchai Jitpleecheep, is a likeable, devout Buddhist known to everyone he works with as an \\"arhat\\"--or honest cop (one that doesn't take bribes).  The novel is told from his perspective, and the reader gets a great understanding into how he thinks, especially in the scope of the Buddhist perspective.  Normally, I can be judgmental about morality, especially in regards to bribery and the sex industry, but as he explains it throughout the novel, we get to see Thailand from the Thai perspective, and its hard to argue with the idea that maybe the sex industry in Thailand is fulfilling a need or void that causes middle aged men from America and Western Europe to take sex vacations in Bangkok, and this industry is helping to lift a lot of people out of poverty in a way that working at a corporate sweatshop won't. <br /> <br />This novel perfectly captures the international economy as it relates to Thailand, with a cast that involves Americans, Russians, Chinese Jade dealers, the Khmer, Europeans and Thais.  Somehow, it all blends together as one complicated mess, involving the Jade trade, drugs, and sex.  There are plenty of surprises in store as one reads it, and the story challengesyou to keep your mind open and get over any moral objections you might have about, say, the transgendered.  It all works out in the end, with an overall brilliant message with spiritual undertones.  I love the subplot about Detective Sonchai's upbringing as a boy with a father he never had the chance to know, a mother who worked in the skin trade, and the very funny side business that his mother gets him involved in near the end.  When I put this novel down, I was impressed by its descriptions of Thailand, and though the plot/story was a bit confusing at times, I like what the author has to say about the kind of changes that we in the west can make if we have enough money.  Instead of accepting things the way they are, we have a tendency to make changes to suit our visions and fantasies, such as our bodies and even our gender for those who are so inclined.  In the end, does such cosmetic and/or physical changes really solve the deeper angst at the core of our being?  In this novel, we see the conflict between the spiritually minded versus the physically minded.  Some people have the power to throw their money around to get what they want, while others take advantage of the situation to manuever themselves into a good position of power or career.  This novel gives much to ponder and is quite simply the perfect international novel to be exposed to a melange of characters with different ulterior motives, offering many ideas to ponder as we make our way in the new century of international relations and intrigue.	2004-11-13
US	41590372	R1DG66NGY7Q0C6	0765308703	434550963	What Dreams May Come: A Novel	Books	4	17	22	N	N	A perfect vision of the afterlife	I read this novel a few years ago, when the movie had just come out and was so taken in by its beautiful description of heaven that I stayed up late a few nights in a row to read as much as I could before going to sleep.  As I read this novel, I felt a euphoric bliss, because its descriptions of the ultimate meaning of our lives feels so true and accurate.  This book has become my guidebook on what to expect in the afterlife.  I agree with many of the ideas, since this novel answered a lot of questions for me that religion has failed to answer, one of which is \\"upon death, do we learn 'the truth' if we are so dogmatic in our views being right.\\"  The answer makes sense, that we retain our belief system when we die, that death isn't an automatic enlightenment, especially for those who believe that only righteous born again Christians go to heaven, with its pearly gates and St. Peter standing out front with a large book of names.  I never bought into that view of heaven, because why would heaven need a gate to begin with?  I love the idea that one's soul goes to the level of his/her spiritual development, and the more open minded you are, the more diverse your heaven is (rather than some slice of heaven that only members of the same religion gravitate towards). <br /> <br />My only complaint about this novel, and the reason why I subtract a star, is what I consider the sappy love story angle.  The main character is in heaven, on an adventure, yet all he does is wonder about his wife.  Of course, that's understandable, but as a reader, I wanted a protagonist who shared my curiousity about heaven.  I would have been all over the place, in the library looking up the real history of human events, looking at my past life charts, and meeting old friends.  But I can't complain because this novel really is the first of its kind that I've read that is well detailed about heaven.  The writer is brilliant for writing a novel like this and I love the \\"disclaimer\\" in the beginningthat \\"only the story is made up\\"...that he based heaven on the consistency he saw in all the religions.  That is why I believe this novel is probably more true in its depiction of heaven than any other book and I often refer to it for spiritual insight. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the movie is not loyal to the novel and hardly resembles anything in this novel.  I felt sick after I saw the movie, because I was expecting a beautiful movie that was somewhat loyal to the book, instead of what seemed like a parody.  I hope someday that someone will make a film more faithful to this novel (George Lucas, perhaps?  His creation of the city on Naboo in the Star Wars prequels look more like a city in heaven than what this film version showed).  Until then, I'll just have to reread this novel and envision it within my own mind.  This novel will take you to heaven.  If you have any unanswered questions about spirituality or the ultimate meaning in your life, then please read this book, ponder its precepts and remember that because of free will, we create our own heaven and/or hell and God will not intervene in our self-deceptions until we recognize the illusions and ask to be led to the truth.	2004-10-23
US	41590372	R2OGBM6A73YOSU	1582342083	656709380	P.S.	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Major disappointment	I heard about this book because of the movie coming out and it sounded like an interesting premise.  A middle aged woman still has a longing for a high school boyfriend who died tragically just when he went off to college.  Twenty years later, when she works in the admissions office of Columbia University, she comes across an applicant with the same name as her former flame, Scott Feinstadt.  When she meets him, she's startled to find that not only does he share the same name as her former flame, but he even looks like him, talks like him, appears to be an exact clone of him.  How can this be? <br /> <br />Well, with a premise like that...I was expecting this novel to be about reincarnation or cloning.  I read it, hoping to see where the author leads the reader on this intriguing premise.  Maybe its the fault of my expectations, for I was looking forward to metaphysical insight and a deeply spiritual book or an interesting look at the ultimate meaning of cloning...but the author leads the reader no where.  It's inconclusive just who the new Scott Feinstadt really is.  One clue that he's probably not the reincarnation of her former flame is that he was born before the other died.  That's either an author error or a well hidden clue that this novel isn't about reincarnation. <br /> <br />Some of the writing is good and funny, but the overall style is annoying to read as the author gives many segues into the past that interrupt the flow of the novel for me.  The novel is written in third person, but it mainly focuses on Louise Harrington, so perhaps it should have been first person, because the novel offers little insight into what the other characters are thinking.  We see everything from Louise's point of view, and if its going to be that way, then why not make it first person?  If one is going to use third person POV, then take advantage of it by showing us what Scott Feinstadt was thinking or the other people in the novel. <br /> <br />Disappointing read.  Here's hoping the movie will be a vast improvement.  I think the reincarnation angle is intriguing and should be developed more.  It would have made for a vastly superior story.	2004-10-09
US	41590372	R2L72J7EMQLDV2	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interesting perspective on life beyond the grave	This novel captured my attention for being on the best seller lists for months, and if I recall correctly, was the best selling novel of 2003.  That it sold extremely well must be a sign of the current zeitgeist for metaphysical topics in films and books, quite possibly a healing balm in the post 9/11 months. <br /> <br />I loved how this novel portrays life from the eyes of a teenage girl who was murdered by a serial killer, as she watches her family and friends cope with the grief and acceptance of her death.  There were some implausibles, though I had heard something before about marriages breaking up after the death of a child.  I don't understand that phenomenon, but this novel seems to follow that line of thinking.  There are some gruesome bits, mostly in showing the deceptive nature of the serial killer and what a cold blooded liar he is to the police and neighbors.  Susie Salmon's death isn't spared the gruesome horror, and I found myself a bit squeemish just reading those parts of the novel. <br /> <br />I was hoping that this novel would show more of what goes on in heaven.  We are given fleeting images, but nothing to captivate our imaginations (unlike, say, \\"What Dreams May Come\\" by Richard Matheson...the best novel about the afterlife I've ever read).  Instead, we see a girl obsessed or attached with earth, watching over everything.  The novel works towards a cheesy development in which Susie is miraculously given a chance to do what she wanted to do before dying, which was losing her virginity, apparently.  This scene in the novel reminded me of the film \\"Ghost\\" when Whoopi Goldberg allows Patrick Swayze's soul to enter her body for a little dance with Demi Moore.  A bit cheesy, but it didn't really detract from the novel for me.  The ending is what saved the novel for me, with its clever resolution regarding the serial killer.  That's what I give the fourth star for.  This novel would have gotten five stars from me if the writer had shown more of whathappens to Susie in heaven...something like a life review, meeting other souls she knew on earth, exploring options for what she'll do for the rest of eternity, that sort of thing.  Perhaps that's not what the writer had in mind, but this novel was a good, entertaining read with just enough horror to raise my adrenaline and enough sweet moments to smile about.	2004-10-09
US	41590372	R2363VS9PRD7H1	0060529709	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Beautifully written yet hard to follow	I have to hand it to Jonathan Safran Foer for writing an impressively beautifully written first novel.  He can write, there's no doubt about that.  Well deserved critical praise and attention for his writing style.  This, along with \\"A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius\\" by Dave Eggers, stand out as must-read literary classics of Generation X.  Students of writing and those wanting to become writers would do well to learn from the style of these books. <br /> <br />The downside to this novel is that it's really two stories in one, and I found one half of it amusingly funny and the other half dull and hard to read.  I'm not naturally interested in Jewish communities in the Ukraine from centuries ago all the way through WWII, so that part of the novel (the biggest portion) really bored me and a lot of it was just hard to read at leisure.  The part I really loved were the parts from the point of view of Alexander and his interesting manner of speaking English.  This is the part of the novel I found most brilliant and funny and wanting more of.  Alexander is a memorable character, perhaps one of the most memorable I've read since Holden Caulfield.  Its hard not to like a guy like Alexander, who's use of English provides much of the humor to begin with.  I like his interractions with his grandfather, Safran, and the dog named Sammy Davis Junior Junior.  One could even read this novel with just those sections and still enjoy it, skipping out the other story about the lives of the Jews in Trachimbrod.  That story simply wasn't interesting enough to me to merit the amount of pages it took to tell the back story.  I wish the writer would have concentrated more on the journey his character takes.  An entire novel written from Alexander's point of view would have been brilliant and funny, and I would have given this novel five stars instead of the three I'm giving it.  Those three stars are for the beautiful writing style, clever turns of a phrase and craft of sentences.Of that, there is no doubt, Jonathan Safran Foer is definitely the Generation X writer to watch out for.  I'm looking forward to his next novel and hope its a much more linear story.	2004-10-09
US	41590372	R3OT4QMDUPCD5D	0743270134	691943466	You Have the Power: How to Take Back Our Country and Restore Democracy in America	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Selling a widget	Come on Dean!  I ordered this book from amazon.com and when it came in the mail and I opened the box, my first thought was \\"where's the beef?\\"  I was shocked by how small and thin this book is, considering the price.  I'm not sure why it was published in hardback, since his previous one was paperback only.  As much as I love Dean and wish that he was the Democratic nominee instead of Kerry, this book is still a widget that only hardcore Dean supporters like myself would buy.  Its a breeze to read in a day or two, covering much of what I've heard in several speeches and read in his previous book.  I agree with all points he makes (because I'm a Deanocrat), but I still don't understand why he bothered with this book.  I was hoping for a narrative about his experiences on the campaign trail.  I suspect he was in a rush to get this book out before the election in hopes of his supporters buying it, reading it, and holding their noses when they vote for Kerry in November.  That's still no reason to con me out of $20 on a widget!  I would have happily waited for a more in depth book, with more substance, and regular sized, if it took a year or two for him to write one worth reading.  That's why I have to give him three stars.  Its not as good as his first campaign literature (\\"Winning Back America\\"), and I eagerly bought it sight unseen (had I seen it in a bookstore, I probably would've passed on buying it until the paperback version) just because I'm such a loyal Deanocrat who's hoping that Dean will run again in 2008 or 2012.  Because I still like Dean and believe in his message, I wouldn't ask for my money back...just a promise from him not to pass another widget on his supporters.  Wait for substance before you write another book, and call me if you want help writing one.  I'd love to help out on that project!	2004-10-07
US	41590372	R1C86L0HF1EZ9C	0060523913	233439848	Hungry Ghost: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting novel with metaphysical insight	This is the first novel I've read that uses the second person POV and I was skeptical that it would work in such a lengthy (322 page) book without becoming annoying, but what a pleasant surprised it turned out to be.  It works brilliantly, a deliberate choice by the author for the underlying spirituality of the novel.    Some critics have complained about the author's frequent mention of brand names, but I also believe that was intentional, because it became less of a focus for the protagonist as the novel progresses.  What we see is a portrait of a shallow, womanizing, materialistic Manhattanite and his new introduction and struggle with the non-materialistic philosophy of Buddhism.  There are plenty of basic Buddhist concepts mentioned early on and he meets an interesting young Catholic woman at a meditation retreat.    The descriptions of Manhattan are excellent.  The writing overall is exceptionally well done.  The novel even has an interesting twist that reminded me of the film \\"The Devil's Advocate\\".  I liked the brief glimpse of the bardo state, a warning to the reader what our unquenchable material desires might lead us to in the afterlife.  I was interested in reading more about it, but I guess we only get a glimpse.    The weakest point of the novel occurs 2/3rds through the novel, when the main characters take an unplanned detour.  While it heightened the terror and urgency of the novel as well as danger level for the characters, it seemed a bit too convenient and unecessary for me.  I actually feared the direction the writer was taking us in the novel, but the resolution of the climax was a relief and saved the story, highlighting the main point of what our life on earth should be about.  The ending came a little bit sooner than I liked, but I understood the underlying spiritual message of the novel, the metaphysical insights that we only truly live when we've faced death head on and survived.  After such harrowing experiences, we see the shallowness ofa materialist based life and appreciate our relationships with other people.  I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in spirituality, the search for deeper meaning in life, and an introduction into basic Buddhist beliefs.  I hope the writer will continue to write novels of a metaphysical bent.  I look forward to his next work.	2004-09-25
US	41590372	R53QUGYS2G7QA	1401352197	624026753	Sammy's Hill: A Novel	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Wickedly funny and surprising debut	Let me first say that I was one of 15 interns for Vice President Gore in Spring Semester 2000 and got to experience politics from the OVP's office in the U.S. Capitol.  During my internship, the Washington Post had an article about Gore in which I learned that as a young man, he was divided between wanting to be novelist and wanting to be a politician.  Who knows how a career as a novelist would have panned out had he chosen that path?  I was hoping that he would write a novel after the disappointment of 2000 and deciding against running again. <br /> <br />When I heard that Kristin was writing a novel about politics, I was thrilled to see someone in the Gore family pick up on Al's youthful dream.  I was anxiously looking forward to reading her novel, trusting in her writing ability since she worked as a writer on \\"Futurama\\" and \\"SNL\\".  Still, there's always a little suspicion that she got a book contract because of who she is rather than natural ability.  What a refreshing surprise her first novel turned out to be! <br /> <br />To call it \\"chick lit\\" is derogatory and limits her readership audience to a smaller pool.  I think her novel would appeal to anyone, male or female, who has worked on Capitol Hill or the White House or who is generally interested in politics and the people who work for the politicians.  The little details sprinkled throughout the novel, from reading \\"The Hotline\\" and \\"Roll Call\\", are familiar to anyone who has worked on Capitol Hill.  Kristin definitely knows her topic well and presents them realistically, albeit with much humor thrown in. <br /> <br />This is a rare novel in which I laughed out loud quite frequently.  From her dead on digs against Bush in the guise of \\"President Pile\\", to the latest neurotic mistakes of her heroine, \\"Sammy's Hill\\" is wickedly funny and ultimately satisfying.  I especially love the different characters she works with and maintains friendship with, particularly Sammy's unique fondness for telemarketers, an interesting quirk itself.  Even her fish, Shackleton, offers humor that brings out Sammy's witty outlook regarding his premature death pose. <br /> <br />The novel covers about a year and a half and how quickly politics can change in that year.  Politicians seen as frontrunners can stumble, and those who were discounted could easily fill the void.  Sammy's relationships seems to mirror such political changes.   One of the brightest ideas about the novel is Kristin's lack of labeling characters as \\"Democrat\\" or \\"Republican\\", \\"liberal\\" or \\"conservative\\".  She presents her character as real people and readers get to know them without labels predetermining one's bias for or against a character. <br /> <br />If I have any complaints about the novel, there are just a few.  One being Sammy's overanalysis of everything, though its possibly part of her charm and offers much insight into the workings of the female mind.  Sometimes she carried on a little bit too much, making me feel neurotic as I read Sammy's thoughts.  The other complaint is that I would have liked the novel to be a tad bit longer.  The character Charlie should have been developed more, though it does leave room for a possible sequel in which we get to know him a bit more.  All in all, an impressive debut novel and I certainly hope Kristin will write another one soon, either a continuation of Sammy's experiences, or one with new characters and topic altogether.  Her sense of humor is too rare in novels, so she can definitely sell funny in future novels.	2004-09-14
US	41590372	R24T81QMSSE1O5	0875420087	844903883	How to Meet & Work with Spirit Guides (Llewellyn's Practical Guide to Personal Power)	Books	5	227	243	N	N	Read with an open mind	I wish people would read books like these with an open mind or not at all. Quoting the Bible to knock a book like this is pointless. If the Bible is your one and only spiritual guidebook in life, then why are you reading this book in the first place? <br />  <br /> Spirit guides aren't evil spirits. If people can't tell the difference between a spiritual being who wants to help you from a spiritual being that wants you to do bad things, then how spiritual are you in the first place? Spiritual guides are meant to help us spiritually progress towards greater unconditional love, to keep us on the path we agreed to take with God's blessing. An evil spirit wants to distract us from that goal, to have us commit sin and do things that aren't in keeping with spiritual progress. Contacting your spirit guide is not for the spiritual newbie and should be handled with care. This book is a good intro for people wanting to do that. If you aren't interested in getting to know your spiritual guide, then by all means, read your Bible and don't even buy or review a book like this. No one's forcing you to read something that goes against your beliefs.	2004-07-27
US	41590372	R3JKT6GIPII31S	0446527793	332456280	The Guardian (Sparks, Nicholas)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting, but predictable story with a uninspiring title	This is far and away Nicholas Sparks' best written novel, but it doesn't amount to much because the plot/story is predictable mush, hardly different than the suspense genre films featuring an obsessed stalker who just can't take personal rejection. You know how its going to end. I thought the ending might be different, original, clever, but its not. Seen it before in movies that were better developed than this. <br />  <br /> His writing style has much improved over his past novels, though he still loves to portray all the cliches of love and domestic bliss, right down to the white picket fence. As a writer, Sparks seems to be rehashing the same characters from his previous novels. I guess if the formula works, he'll keep writing the same hack over and over as people keep buying them and reading them. Despite having the gag reflex as I read this book, I did think he showed incredible improvement in his writing style and craft of sentences. Now if he'll focus on deeper plots and try to be more original in his stories (including the titles), he might really grow as a writer. I really think &quot;The Rescue&quot; is his best novel so far, in terms of story/plot. But this one gets credit for being his best written novel. Sparks is capable of writing &quot;a great American novel&quot;...its just not there yet. I hope he'll spend more time thinking up some new ideas regarding love and relationships. He's beaten the &quot;house with the white picket fence&quot; into the ground in several of his novels now. I hope he will lay that cliche to rest, and many others that show up in his novels. Original ideas are out there, he just has to break out of his surburban box to find it.	2004-07-27
US	41590372	R378EUFLQCJ3LL	0743212789	320197344	We Pierce: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A tale of two brothers and their battles	First of all, I'd give this book 3 1/2 stars, which isn't bad. I wanted to read this novel after having read &quot;Jarhead&quot; and &quot;Baghdad Express&quot;, two memoirs about Marines in the first Gulf War. I like that there are books coming out by the soldiers and Marines who fought in the first Gulf War, offering different perspectives on the same topic. This one was written as a novel, though the writer uses his own last name as the same last name for his two main characters, the brothers Smith and Sam Huebner. I'm not certain why he does this, but I found myself wondering how much of it was taken from his own life's experiences. <br />  <br /> The most distracting thing I didn't like about the way this book was written was the lack of quotation marks to indicate speech. This was hard to get used to at first, but I caught on, although in a few places, it added confusion as to what was spoken by a character and what was only a thought. I'm not sure why he would forgo the use of quotation marks, unless it was for some literary device, but again, I thought it added to unnecessary confusion. <br />  <br /> The tale of the two brothers was an interesting juxtaposition. I preferred reading about Smith Huebner and his experiences at war, though it didn't seem to amount to much. His brother, Sam, who aspired to be a Kerouac-style writer but got lost in drug addiction, was the heartbreaking half of the book. As I read, I couldn't believe that someone would destroy the potentiality of his own life in pursuit of the next high. I enjoyed seeing a glimpse into the life of a drug addict and how powerless they are to change, even if they intend to change, after their &quot;final high.&quot; No jail time or ultimatum from a girlfriend seemed strong enough to convince Sam to change his ways. <br />  <br /> The novel ends a little too abruptly for me, with Smith returning to his pre-war life and his brother in search of the next high. There wasn't any resolution to the story,no profound meaning or awakening. It just is. A sort of &quot;year in the life of two brothers&quot; portrait. It is well written overall and a good cautionary tale against drug usage, but beyond that, it doesn't offer a whole lot to ponder on. I didn't know what the title referred to. Before I read it, I thought it was about two brothers with the last name &quot;Pierce.&quot; I didn't expect the writer to use his own last name for the characters. <br />  <br /> Anyone interested in novels about our soldiers in the Gulf War should read this, along with the memoirs &quot;Baghdad Express&quot; (Turnipseed) and &quot;Jarhead&quot; (Swofford). Out of those three, I think &quot;Jarhead&quot; is the best, followed by this one. But &quot;the Great American Gulf War novel&quot; remains to be written.	2004-07-22
US	41590372	R29MQVCX1U7O3T	0446532444	295353071	Three Weeks with My Brother	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Interesting Insight into the life of a successful writer	I started reading Nicholas Sparks' novels because I felt a personal connection with him.  Like me, he has the same first name, is a middle child with an older brother and younger sister, was born on December 31st (though I was born on Dec 30th), and similarities in moving from place to place during childhood and personality.  It was these similarities that drew me into reading his novels, but while his novels were entertaining, light reads with interesting characters, I never felt that he was a great writer.  His novels present a world I'm not familiar with (gossipy friends and neighbors, women who want a house with a white picket fence, satisfaction with an average suburban/small town provincial lifestyle), but it seems to resonate with people if he continues to show up on the best seller lists.<br />This book is by far his best book because he offers fresh honesty about the flaws of his family and himself.  When I started reading it, I expected more of a travelogue and was surprised to see how little he revealed about his trip in relation to his well detailed personal history.  His description of places seemed little more than segues into reminisces about his personal biography, and that's what really kept me reading.  I really enjoyed and appreciated his insights into his personal history and didn't realize how much tragedy seemed to befall him each time he had a bit of good news.  I don't see how I could endure all that he has had to endure for the past 15 years or so, but it seems to have given him plenty of inspiration to create the novels he has written.  His close relationship to his brother is touching and I wish that I had that kind of relationship with my own brother.  But I thought he was a bit too hard on his brother's doubts about religion.<br />I would have liked to have read more details about his trip to some interesting places, but I guess his brief descriptions of places such as Easter Island, Cambodia, and Jaipul India sparked an interest in me to find out more about those places.  Overall, I was impressed how he weaved his whole personal history from childhood through the present into this book and I found his personal history was actually more interesting than his travel narrative.  After finishing his book, I agree with his wife and brother...he doesn't need to work so hard.  Trying to write two novels a year is demanding enough, but to balance it the way he does with family responsibilities (he does have five young children to devote attention to after all) and time for self only adds unnecessary pressure.  My personal advice to him would be...its okay to take time off from writing.  I'll still buy your books when they are published.  You are well enough established a writer to have two years between novels if you want to (after all, Michael Crichton is one of my favorite writers and its years between his novels).  This book has given me a greater appreciation for Nicholas Sparks as a writer and a person.  I only hope that he gave his wife an extraordinary gift for her willingness to sacrifice three weeks so he can travel the world with his brother.  She is remarkable and maybe their courtship and relationship dynamic might make an interesting novel in the future if he dares to fictionalize it for public consumption.  If not, this book certainly accomplishes that role.  His wife should apply for sainthood, and he is lucky to have a woman like her to endure life's trials with.	2004-04-28
US	41590372	R2RK385CNVIIJY	0873514505	358494324	Baghdad Express: A Gulf War Memoir	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Wish it was longer, and more profound	I enjoyed this book, for the main reason of seeing how a philosophically minded Marine cope with his fellow Grunts and his reservist status in the first Gulf War.  I especially liked reading about his time in the Dog Pound, with their unique use of language and hip urban style.  All of it rings true.  My only disappointment with this book is that it was too short and I somehow felt &quot;cheated&quot; that it didn't live up to what the cover blurbs made it out to be.  I wanted more philosophical insights, more profoundly crafted sentences, and a longer duration.  When I finished reading it, my thought was, &quot;that's it?&quot;  It could've been a lot longer.  As it stands, it doesn't really amount to much more than offering a glimpse of what it was like for a short period of time for one philosophically minded Marine.  Hopefully Turnipseed will have another book in him and go much deeper in his interest in philosophy and applying it to life, wherever it finds him.	2004-01-14
