US	41738785	R1QKULH556IEWP	0312206763	694468513	Stately Pursuits	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Predictable but a Total Delight Nonetheless	This book is vastly similar to Highland Fling, except that instead of a sweater company it's a falling down, ancient estate in Courtbridge.  And instead of quaint small town Scotland, it's quaint small town England.  And again Katie Fforde has a lovely way of describing the characters with just enough bad qualities that they seem real to the reader.  This formula of the sweet female lead taking charge and bringing back to life a forgotten old thing and the grumbling, irritable yet somehow sexy male totally works for me!  I loved it!!!    This time, Hetty Longden is nursing back to life a broken heart and housesitting for an uncle (who rivals the estate in age & is having vital surgery).  She makes friends with all the disparate townspeople and takes up their cause of keeping the old crumbling estate going and prepares to show it.  However, the uncle's closest and only heir, civil engineer Connor Barrabin, aka Conan the Barbarian to the townspeople, returns to see how things are going and he has other, more devious plans for the beloved old shack.  The sparks that obviously will fly between Connor and Hetty are hot and tangible.  The way things progress is quite predictable, with just a few surprises put in the way, but still a completely satisfying delight to witness either way.    Katie Fforde is good at creating down on their luck heroines that you can't help but sympathize with and cheer on, a side cast with fully developed personalities, and a smart and sexy \\"Alpha-male\\" to keep things just tantalizing enough that we are totally driven to turn every page without distraction.	2005-08-24
US	41738785	R1OU4TGRWS82X6	0060090367	962133592	Watermelon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Quite Funny and Quite Sad, A Perfect Combo	Watermelon is a story about a 29-year old Irish girl who gives birth to a beautiful baby only to be told directly afterwards by her husband that he's leaving the both of them for the downstairs neighbor.  What a complete jerk!  I was immediately rooting for Claire, and just as depressed as she was.  What an amazingly horrible thing to happen, after such a miracle!  She's got a crazy family and I loved how Marian Keyes just lays it out for us, the dirt and the glory all together.  And how our life experiences mold us and actually prepare us to love certain people that come into our lives.  And how a single person's perspective of our personality can really throw our self esteem out the window. <br /> <br />\\"Watermelon\\" is really a beautiful, sweet, sappy, sad, exhilarating tale of losing our way and finding a better one.	2005-08-22
US	41738785	R185O7Y4IOUPL2	0060557257	253092517	Sushi for Beginners	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Funny, Light, Quirky, and Ultimately Satisfying	Marian Keyes has such a lovely way of portraying all the bad with the good, and making us sympathize with even the evil ones.  And most moving in this tale is Lisa, the evil, bossy, confident, perfectly groomed, perfectly dressed, maneating fashion editor who met her match and actually married him but then let him just go away without a fight.  Ashling is quite sweet, and endearingly pathetic in her attempts to find love.  There are many others whose plights are part of this cooky tale.  It takes a little getting used to, all the separate and eventually intertwining plots.  But all in all, a satisfying and fun read.	2005-08-22
US	41738785	R3NXGDS2FVVM5V	0399152881	732234440	Lie by Moonlight	Books	2	16	18	N	N	Too Much Dialogue	I haven't read Amanda Quick since I finished Lavinia & Tobias' 2 stories.  This one seemed to follow the same formula.  Two non-societal leads get thrown together under criminal circumstances and the female insists they partner up to solve the mystery.  Except in this case, Cooncordia Glade is a teacher with modern & unconventional sentiments.  Ambrose Wells is the same person of inquiry, but with a better sense of humor. The mystery wasn't very tight, I found the motive not matched to the crime.   <br /> <br />There is so much explaining dialogue in this novel, and a lot of the time I felt like they were just recapping events so that the reader, all who apparently have short attention spans, could remember what was going on. <br /> <br />In my humble opinion, I think Ms. Quick lost her way writing this book, and went with telling a story about dull mystery rather than focusing on the funny and complex Ambrose, Concordia's love and dedication to help foundlings that society would rather board up and ignore, or the endearingly interfering four students, Edwina, Theodora, Phoebe and Hannah.  Speaking of whom, how many times those four names were stated together in this novel, I haven't a clue.  But it's probably upwards of 500.  Almost each time the 4 of them are mentioned, it's not as \\"the girls\\" or \\"the four students\\" or \\"Ms. Glade's girls\\" or \\"Concordia's pupils\\" or any other number of ways of referring to them, it's \\"Edwina, Theodora, Phoebe and Hannah.\\"  But that is besides the point. <br /> <br />I much would have rather read about Concordia being headmistress of a girls school and seeing how she inspires and gives hope to the forgotten children.  This book instead was just a romance with a backdrop of a not very intelligent mystery.   <br /> <br />Amazon won't like me saying this but DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY BUYING THIS BOOK.  If you like Amanda Quick, just check it out from the library.  This is one of her less than great novels.  Normally she's superb.	2005-08-18
US	41738785	R2JZAIPHJIIY5Y	0312317689	606189758	Highland Fling	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Light & Warming Fun!	Genevieve (\\"Jenny for short\\") is a virtual assistant sent to the highlands to inspect the books and profits of a failing sweater company.  She stays at Dalmain House where she gets to know its inhabitants a little more than she would have preferred.  Lady Dalmain is an old shrew that treats her only daughter like a servant.  Philip is the sweet, doting eldest son who does no wrong.  Felicity is the agoraphobic who seethingly does everything her mother tells her and never stands up to herself.  Iain is the rebel son who married under class and lives a \\"cottage love\\" life.  Upon Jenny's arrival, things start to change for the better for everyone. <br /> <br />I loved Jenny - she was so caring, sweet and self-sacrificing for people who were basically strangers.  Ross Grant was a treat and I loved how Jenny was so rude to him, totally out of character for her.  <br /> <br />The book was very predictable, but oftentimes these light romance novels are.  Other than that, I have no complaints!  Highland Fling is funny, sweet, breezy, touching, at times very hot, and ultimately satisfying.  What more do you want in a romance? <br /> <br />This was my first Katie Fforde novel, and based on it I will definitely read more from her.	2005-08-16
US	41738785	R53U05B4G43YA	0385338686	188590881	The Undomestic Goddess	Books	5	2	4	N	N	I Love Love Love Sophie Kinsella!	And yet again Sophie Kinsella hits another one straight to my heart!  I have totally enjoyed her 5 previous novels.    This time out, we meet, become astounded at, even horrified by, Samantha Sweeting, contract attorney extraordinaire.  She is blasting her way to partnership and has lost any resemblance of a life.  But it's ok, it'll get better once she's made partner.  And besides, it's what she's wanted since she was 12.  But then oops, she makes an astronomically costly & stupid mistake, temporarily loses her mind and ends up taking a job, for just the night, she thinks, as a housekeeper.  She'll sort everything out in the morning.  But then things keep coming up and she can't bring herself to tell her new bosses, who are endearing themselves to her with their quirks and qualms, that she's never been a housekeeper, hasn't a clue how to operate an iron, never mind the washing machine, she never trained under Michel de la Roux de la Blanc, who isn't even a chef, and really, she's been trained at all the top schools as an ATTORNEY!    This book hit all the right notes in all the right places for me.  It is pure escapist pleasure and satisfaction through and through.  Samantha is hysterical.  Nat is the complete package - smart, talented, funny, really good to his mom and totally hot!  He's a landscaper for god's sake - tan & deliriously muscled!  Trish and Eddie are at turns adorable and irritatingly small minded.  They haven't a clue.  But you end up liking them all the same.    If you've liked Sophie Kinsella's other novels, I guarantee you will enjoy \\"The Undomestic Goddess\\".  You will want to see how Samantha ends up straightening out her shambles of a life.  And you will be laughing out loud quite a lot of the time.  I was so sad when the book ended.  Just like I have felt with all her novels, I hope and hope and hope Sophie will continue Samantha's story in a sequel.      Please, I want more of Samantha!	2005-08-16
US	41738785	RJBH25V07SCGV	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	3	5	7	N	N	The Heroine Rocks, The Duke Wilts	So based upon the rave reviews I read, I was expecting something wonderful. This being the first Gaelen Foley novel I read, I did not know what to expect.  What I got was a novel about Robert Hawkscliffe, firstborn son of the Hawkscliffe Harlot, who ends up losing his heart to what he thinks is a bonafide Harlot.  Just like his mom.  The Duke is a self-righteous, arrogant, high minded a-hole.  Yet, on his other side he is totally gorgeous and a strongly principled man who fights for civil rights.  Belinda Hamilton is a gently bred, very intelligent female who becomes the object of a gentleman's obssession.  Thus begins her descent into hell.  She experiences a woman's worst nightmares and then decides to save herself and her father by becoming a prostitute.  But she still has her principles:  no married men and he has to be a good sort, no perverts.    I really liked Bel a lot, she was strong, smart, witty and tried to make the best of what life had handed her.  Her life is made bitter sweet when Robert Hawkscliffe enters her life.  He doesn't approve of her yet he can't resist her.  Total a-hole.    I rate this book three stars because although I totally loved Bel's character, I totally hated Robert's.  Towards the end of the book, I was yelling at Bel to drop the fool and go on her own - she doesn't need such a self-righteous know-it-all, despite his talents in bed and in parliament.  Just tell him to bugger off, Bel!      However, I was intrigued by little, shy Lizzie and outrageous Jacinda.  I hope they get books of their own.  Going to do a little research to find out.  I'm still with you, Gaelen, I'll keep reading to see what else you got!	2005-08-11
US	41738785	R1W7ZE3P8E43K2	0399149783	370279775	Monkeewrench	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Really Good & Totally Freaky	It took me a few chapters to get into this book, but once I was hooked, I couldn't put it down.  And it totally freaked me out.  I didn't want to go to the Mall of America for a long time after I read it.      The novel starts with an execution type murder in small county, Wisconsin that opens up a world of questions.  And somehow the trails runs all over the country and ends up next door, in Minnesota, where someone is killing people in the same exact manner as Crime Scene Investigators type video game.  The object of the game, created by a computer software company called Monkeewrench, isn't to kill people, but it's to find clues from each of the killer's crime scenes and ultimately catch the killer.  So who is the killer?  Is it someone who's been playing the prototype game that Monkeewrench has offered on their website?  Is it someone from the Monkeewrench's past?  Or is it one of Monkeewrench's five owners?    Normally when I read whodunits, I pretty much have no idea whodunit.  This time, I totally thought I had the killer tagged.  But I was wrong!  Which was cool.      This mystery will keep you guessing and the characters - Grace, Annie, Harley, Mitch, Roadrunner, Leo, Gino, Mike, Bonar, Sharon, and a few more of a rag tag and colorful bunch - will make sure that you have a good time while you're trying to figure it all out.	2005-08-02
US	41738785	RIZ0T1W2NU75K	0451214633	745582648	Live Bait (A Monkeewrench Novel)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Eventually an Engrossing Mystery	Live Bait, like Monkeewrench, took me about 5 chapters to get drawn into the story.  To me, someone killing off the elderly is just sick & you'd have to be pretty off your rocker to do it.  Case not very interesting and case closed.  Another psycho killer.  Let's move on.  But I persisted in reading and it did hook me.  There is more to the story than a psycho killer killing elderly for no reason.  And it involves more elderly people and their families and Nazis, of all things.  Because of the Nazi angle, the story was disturbing.  And it touches on some deeper questions of what makes right and redemption and forgiveness.  There isn't much more light shed on main characters - the Monkeewrench crew, Leo Magozzi or Gino Rolseth - but the writers give you a lot of background about the other main characters that are introduced. <br /> <br />It was an exciting mystery with a surprising conclusion, but not an excellent, 5-star mystery.	2005-08-02
US	41738785	R3MWY17BPLC3YJ	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	You Feel Their Pain Straight Through Your Fingertips!	I really really really enjoyed reading this book.  It was funny, touching, exciting, and fast-paced.  I could barely put the book down!    Reggie (Regina) is a sweet, adventurous girl who's exhausted from her 2 year search for a husband that actually meets the approval of her doting uncles.  She finds a solution when she is accidentally abducted by the drop dead gorgeous and totally notorious Nicholas Eden.  At first I did not like Nicholas, he seemed like a selfish and uncaring womanizer.  But I kept on reading and as I got to know him better, I really started to like him.  \\"A likeable insufferable fellow!\\" as he states about himself.  I felt so much compassion for him and his perspective on his life and what he deserved.  Very sad. But it made me like him all the more.  And there was nothing I didn't like about Reggie.  She is totally sweet and funny through and through.    However, towards the end, Nicholas' stubborn refusal to open himself up to Reggie because of his perceived assurance that she'd reject him flatout got a little frustrating.  You see that a lot in books of this genre.  There is something in the man's past that they think will never be accepted by the woman, so they persist in acting in a way that ensures they won't get hurt (or something in the woman's past, blah blah blah).  It's been done many times before.    Nevertheless, the story flows quite swiftly and it's pretty much a fun ride the entire time.	2005-08-02
US	41738785	R2TG8DWLRL76I0	0399152466	33871656	Dead Run	Books	4	1	2	N	N	You will want to read this book at a DEAD RUN!	This is the third book by mother & daughter writing team PJ Tracy, and it was the only one that had me hooked by the first chapter.      What the heck is going on in tiny Four Corners, Wisconsin?!?    I really like how the writers give you interesting background information for almost all the characters that show up in this book.  To me, it makes each of the characters important and less likely to be killed off.  :)  And I like that!    Grace, Annie and Sharon head to Green Bay, Wisconsin to plug a serial killer's info into the over the top, high-tech computer program created by Monkeewrench when they run into a little car trouble somewhere in No Man's Land, Wisconsin.  No cell towers in that neck of the woods and no people anywhere to boot.  Until they get to the cafe in Four Corners.  And then the world gets a whole lotta crazy-insane.  And the boys back home go a little crazy-insane trying to locate them.  Something smells pretty foul in the midwest and it ain't the turkey farms.    You will want to read this book straight through--it IS that engrossing.  The end happens a little fast, and there isn't much narrative after the climax.  I would have liked a little more wrapping up of the story.  And some of the militia/FBI/police gets a little confusing to sort through, but by the end of middle I had that all figured out (and it being confusing might have been done on purpose?).  But that's about all I could say that I didn't like about it.  The rest was totally entertaining and you get to know Annie and especially Sharon a lot better.    Better than Live Bait, and about as good as Monkeewrench.	2005-08-02
US	41738785	RORRVOVHBAO60	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	2	6	14	N	N	She Gets Paid to Write this Stuff???	The only redeeming aspect of this book, and the reason I gave 2 stars instead of 1, was that I actually was able to finish it.  The questions that were raised in my head, like, how is Colonel Bedwyn going to end up staying for longer than a day?  How are they going to end up married?  How are they going to end up back in each other's company?  These plot conflicts were all solved in a very non-interesting and weak manner.  There was NO tangible, feel it in your fingertips, chemistry between Eve and Aidan.  I could understand why he might LIKE Eve and I could understand why she would admire his honor and sense of duty.  But I did not in any way understand why the 2 of them would fall in love, and that actually, as we were told by Mary Balogh, they did fall in love.  The connection that is normally between the two main characters in a story about love and passion was just never there.  I believe I sensed a deep ADMIRATION between them, but never passionate, never-ending, I will do anything for you, LOVE.<br /><br />As far as romance novels go, this one totally lacked in the romance and sizzle categories.  In the second to last chapter, Aidan all of a sudden is calling Eve his \\"dearest love\\".  God, that is so cheesy!  The lines in this book were so cliche and mundane.  It's like Mary Balogh was using a list of sentences and phrases that are in 90% of all cheesy, $.10 romance novels and was trying to use all of them in one novel.<br /><br />This book was unoriginal and a waste of time.  Don't bother reading it.  You won't regret.  I learned nothing from this book and enjoyed perhaps a total of 15 minutes of the time I spent in reading it.  But, I did finish it, if that means anything....	2005-05-07
US	41738785	R2EY7N18EOFUIK	0385338090	955347785	Shopaholic & Sister (Shopaholic Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Did NOT Want to Put Down!	I totally disagree with other reviewers saying Becky isn't likeable anymore and this book wasn't as good as the other three.  Personally, I think it was my favorite.  It seems that as the years have gone by, Becky has stayed the same and been unharmed by the bumbling mistakes she creates by her own idiocy.  However, in this novel, the most important thing in her life (shopping??? no) might very well be lost.  This is serious in Becky's string of nonstop shopping adventures and Angel bag coups.  How she makes it out alive is hilarious, touching and made me feel so good.  In the previous three novels, has Becky not been ridiculous?  And she delivers full on, bringing unwanted attention to yourself in a public place because you cannot stop laughing out loud, hilarity in the fourth go.   <br /> <br />Becky's sister, Jess, is so different different from her. She is such a funny and refreshing contrast to Becky's inaneness.  Becky is so ready to love her and be soulmates.  Of course she's going to be a little disappointed....and it's hysterical.  But as people go, there's always a lot more going on under the surface than meets the eye.  Course Becky doesn't realize that...and goes on to feel pathetically sorry for her designer clad self.  Poor Bex! <br /> <br />The only thing I didn't like was that more attention wasn't paid to Suze and Bex's relationship.  But I am positive that  the next go will have more Suze.  Yeah!  Hurry Sophie Hurry!  And Thank You So Much For This BOOK!!!!	2004-12-10
US	41738785	R2LL63OM1LN6MM	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	2	12	23	N	N	Ms. Kenyon Wrote This Story Back in High School in 1988	Uh, I should have known just from the title that this book was going to be ridiculous.  However, first off, l will tell you what was good about this book.  The hero is a Spartan Warrior.  Awesome!  Remember Brad Pitt as Achilles in \\"Troy\\"?  I have not come across a book in this genre before that has as its hero and as part of its plot Greek mythology.  I'm sure they're there, I just have not come across any.   <br /> <br />Back to the point, Ms. Kenyon did not do the winning hero or the winning plot justice.  I don't know if she plainly just isn't a good writer, or perhaps this was a bad item among her other and well written books.  (I will do more research & read further from her, starting w/book 2 of this series.)  When I was in high school, I thought myself a budding novelist and wrote these ridiculous, overly wordy (kind of like this review, eh?), fantastical and predictable stories.  Fantasy Lover could have been one of mine from HIGH SCHOOL.  The whole idea of Julian being this gigantic beefcake (he was totally described like Fabio & Fabio is so disgusting!) was just so over the top and ridiculous.  Also, this book was printed in 2002 but there is barely any evidence within its pages of this fact.  The only item dating it near the new millenium is the mention of \\"The Matrix\\".  I believe this is a sign that Ms. Kenyon is out of touch with current/popular culture.  Grace is 29, she a sex therapist, she owns her own house.  But she is dowdy and sounds completely stuck in the early 90's.  I appreciate authors like Sophie Kinsella who totally hit pop culture and relatively current fashion (but not TRENDY fashion) on the nose.  Ms. Kenyon needs to do some research to get into the minds of conscientious young women.  She could start by regularly reading young women periodicals, ie Glamour, In Style.  I find it annoying when authors write about women my age who do not sound like any women I know.  Any self-respecting 29 year old would drop dead before wearing their scrunchy in any other place other than the privacy of their own bathroom.  And what was with the psycho patient?  That whole part came completely out of nowhere and made no sense.  The way it was thrown in the story completely stilted the flow. <br /> <br />Ms. Kenyon does not accurately portray women of a certain age.  Her plot lines are only superficially developed, leaving gaping holes and questions in the minds of attentive readers.	2004-10-21
US	41738785	R2QLXHFYUZQIQA	0345467566	62790053	When in Rome...	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bad bad beginning but excellent middle & end	I am so glad that I didn't put this book down and not finish it.  After reading the first 100 pages I could not believe what a self-centered, selfish, and idiotic girl Georgie was.  I was appalled by her character or actually, the lack of it.  And there were some things she was COMPLETELY oblivious too because she was so self centered.  Totally obvious things.  However, I checked on Amazon to see what other readers might have thought, whether anyone actually finished and liked this book.  AND SO MANY OF THE READERS LIKED IT!!!  I was shocked and decided to give the book a second chance.  I took it on my plane trip from MSP to SEA and did not put it down once!  I loved it!  Georgie truly goes through some much needed transformations and gets to know herself and those she loves and thinks she loves deeper and more meaningfully.  And really, this book isn't so much about a trip to Rome as it is about having the curtains lifted on your life.  Letting some light shine through, being able to see yourself clearly.  Seeing your family, friends, and loved ones clearly and really coming to know and appreciate their strengths and weaknesses. <br /> <br />So if you start reading this book and are totally put off by how shallow and stupid Georgie is, don't stop.  Read it to the finish-you will be satisfied by your decision.  And you will feel happy and refreshed like any good book makes you feel after its reading. <br /> <br />Oh and I read on the editorial review that Ms. Townley is Sophie Kinsella's sister!  I have all four of Ms. Kinsella's novels & love them all!  What a talented family!	2004-09-03
US	41738785	R38E23PSEROELX	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	So Much Fun	This is the story of Hannah Setterington who sells her governess/companion business and sets out to discover her past, only to discover part of her past she thoroughly desired to keep hidden.  The sparks that fly between Hannah and Dougald singe your fingertips.  And the \\"Aunts\\" will keep you laughing through every chapter.  Just a dash of mystery to make the adventure a little dangerous.  I cried & laughed and totally enjoyed myself as I devoured this book in almost one sitting.  I loved how strong and courageous Hannah was and how Dougald was fantastically unable to stick with his determination to only punish Hannah.  These two are irresistible.  I have not enjoyed all the books I've read by Dodd, but I truly loved Hannah & Dougald's tale.	2004-08-25
US	41738785	R602FF1CVPBAI	0452284902	124265247	Weekend in Paris	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Any time is a good time for Paris	Molly Clearwater is smart, beautiful and sexy.  Only she doesn't know it yet.  However, once she decides on the impulsive and travels to Paris on her own, her adventures in the City of Light will transform her the way traveling in unknown territory so often does.  <br /> <br />Sisman clearly knows the affect traveling has on a person and she pens a tale of a sweet and loveable innocent being educated by a weekend in Paris.  Sisman's descriptions of the city are so tangible that it isn't necessary to have been to Paris to know what it's like when you first see the Eiffel Tower, to feel the summer sunshine and smell the caf au lait and baguettes wafting from side walk cafes.  The story totally bounces off the page and you are immediately drawn into Molly's story of youth, growing up, family, friendships, strangers, travel and the beauty of believing in yourself. <br /> <br />My review of this book does not do it justice in any way.  Please read it to discover how sweet, encouraging, uplifting and vitalizing it is for yourself.	2004-08-25
US	41738785	R2W1R7IU7HE6PT	0553583085	355235250	Kissed by Shadows (Get Connected Romances)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	True to the Time	i can understand while readers would be disturbed by the main deception in this novel.  i too was disturbed and was wondering whether i would myself could forgive this man for what he had allowed if i were Pippa myself.  i think Ms. Feather did an excellent job with this novel.  it is gritty, dark and genuine to the time in history that was Queen Mary I regime.  Horrible, unthinkable things were committed at her orders and at Spain's orders also.  If you had to live through what Lionel Ashton experienced, i think perhaps you could judge what he did.  But who of us, in his shoes would not want to crush the man that instigated such crime upon people who were merely thinking freely, and at whatever costs possible?  it happens time and time again.<br />anyways, off my soapbox, this book manages to capture in a light sense the essence of the deceit, the fear, the hope and the living that went on in the mid 1500's and Pippa and Lionel's story, along with Robin &amp; Luisa, make it interesting and brings that time in history to life.  i notice that Lisa Kleypas also manages to include in her novels a certain genuineness that seems to be missing in most of this genre.  it was a dark time and that shouldn't be glossed over and i feel that Jane Feather is able to successfully pen a truly happy and enjoyable story in a very dark setting.  My hat's off to her!	2004-06-16
US	41738785	R1QR92YRSYX329	0553494031	351857035	Close Quarters: A Michael Vaughn Novel (Alias)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Vaughn is the Best!	However, that being said, i have thoroughly enjoyed all of the books i have read so far.  i think i enjoyed this one the best because while Vaughn tries to uncover who wants the Italian president dead (when he's really only responsible for entertaining/babysitting the president's gorgeous and sassy adult daughter) his path actually crosses with someone we all love!<br />Mystery novels normally follow a certain formula and the antagonist is supposed to be the person you least likely suspect.  a good writer will make this surprise believable and as we look back see with excellent hindsight all the clues we missed.  for me, this book followed the formula; however, when the antagonist was finally unveiled i wasn't all that surprised.  the antagonist was understandable but it also kind of seemed like, \\"oh, this is the person no one will suspect so here!\\" and for that reason, i only give 4 stars. <br />i love the tv series and have enjoyed reading the books because it allows me to see these characters develop from the young adults they were when first recruited, the maturity and experience they seem to be gaining as each mission is completed with ultimate success (amid their own human folly) and seeing how it relates to the characters that i wait to watch sunday night.	2004-04-21
US	41738785	R3FQ4XMJF220EC	0553494015	661746198	Sister Spy (Alias)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Cliche Characters	while i totally enjoyed reading this short novel (mainly because i love love love sydney!!!), the college sorority characters all seemed to fit into cliche grooves--what you expect to find in a hoity toity sorority is all there.  the author seemed to manipulate us and sydney into suspecting the wrong person.  however, it is true with sydney's character that she does have a tendency to jump to conclusions and about 40% of the time she is wrong, so i suppose that would fit into her character development.  (especially when she jumps to conclusions regarding her father.)  and sometimes i wonder what era sydney is living in.  i mean, who wears spandex to go running these days?  spandex isn't even 90's, it's totally 80's!  i know in the tv series they try to keep sydney's wardrobe very classic and timeless, so it would be nice if the authors would try the same.  but maybe i am being too critical.  i just cannot picture sydney wearing spandex shorts to go running.<br />this was my least favorite alias book so far, but i still enjoyed it.  but mainly because Noah shows up here and there.  when he was introduced in the tv series, i loved him.  he was smart, hot, confident and cocky.  and in response to the girl who wrote how she couldn't wait to see how their relationship ends up, if you paid any attention to the series you know what happens: noah runs away from sydney because he cannot handle doing what he does and being crazy in love with her at the same time.  he emails her before he leaves for his new post in europe and and she never reads it because her junk mail gets automatically deleted.  she never knows he tried to say goodbye, she thought he just left without a word.  and then they hook up again & she finds out he's the Snowman and all heck breaks loose.  But even though i know their reltionship is ultimately doomed, i COMPLETELY enjoy reading about how they met and how their romance develops through this and every other alias novel.  sydney and noah totally sizzle.	2004-04-21
US	41738785	R3K58X4GSHT5Y9	0553493981	828205732	Recruited: An Alias Prequel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Totally True to Sydney	As an ADULT reading a YOUNG ADULT novel, i felt a little funny & immature.  However, this book was totally true to the character i have come to know and love in watching Alias on ABC that i so  totally loved this book!  it was really wonderful to read about who sydney was and what her life was like before we were introduced to her 2 1/2 years ago.  to know the unsure, frustrated and humble beginnings she started out with.  i think Lynn Mason has done an excellent job in sticking very tightly with the character created by j.j. abrams.  there were moments in the book when i said to myself, \\"oh my gosh, i have totally heard sydney say that!\\"  <br />if you are an alias devotee, you will really enjoy this novel!	2004-01-21
US	41738785	R3Q9U94ZTBVRGT	1400060052	44167654	Lucia, Lucia: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	So so good through the body, weak at the end	Beautiful, heart-breaking, and thoughtful through the main body of this story but weak at the end.  The story of Lucia Santori's life during the 1950's as a \\"career girl\\" was very genuine and fun to read.  I so enjoyed reading about a woman who wasn't interested in getting married and having children and being the typical \\"woman\\" of her era.  Lucia was an independent woman who loved her job, loved her family and loved her friends.  She was a good sister, sister-in-law, daughter, friend, lover and human being.  The body of the story was so full of life and meaning and changes, was so vivid and descriptive, I was completely engrossed.  It really rang true to me how blind romantic love is with her relationship with John Talbot.  We never choose who we will love, and it sometimes is a mystery even to ourselves why we do love that person.  I really appreciated that aspect of the story.  I could relate and I'm sure there are many others that will, too.  But the closing of the novel seemed a little trite and pasted on.  It felt as if someone else, a someone else who did not think the life of Aunt Lu deserved to be written about with any definition, wrote the conclusion.  As I was reading this novel, I was telling all my friends about it and how great the story was and how I had been crying when this or that had happened.  But now that it is over and I have read the final chapters, I have not told any of my friends that they should read it.  My opinion of the book has totally changed.  I am upset at the editors of this book that they allowed Ms. Trigiani to leave the book's ending as it was:  weak and unsatisfying.<br />But since it was so excellent through the most of the novel, at least 80% was excellent, I give this book 3 stars.  Don't expect a satisfying conclusion to a satifying body.	2003-11-19
US	41738785	R29DCHF0JO3MZE	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Worst Ending Ever	The voice of the narrator in the books-on-tape version was a little annoying at times.  (According to my husband, the lady's voice made the book unlistenable. \\"Oh my god!  How can you listen to her, she is so annoying!!!\\")<br />This book was really funny, educational and interesting.  I had no idea that being a nanny for the very rich could be so humiliating and leave you feeling so absolutely powerless.  I felt so bad for poor Grayer.  The story had so many oh-my-god-you-are-kidding-me-how-could-anyone-do-that-to-another-person moments.  Mrs. X was so condescending, unhappy and insecure and the only affection she ever showed Grayer was the unwanted contact that she had \\"spatula-ing\\" him off of her.  So, so sad.  The outrageous behavior of some of the children becomes all too sadly understandable when the description of their parents is revealed.<br />This book is all about what happens when Love and Respect for other human beings is taken out of the equation.  <br />But be forewarned, if you read this book, there is no closure.  You are not left cheering for Nanny and saying \\"way to go, girlfriend, you did it!\\"  You just feel so sad for poor Grayer, and you feel sorrow for his world, where really the only person who showed him any love and decency was his dear Nanny.  I finished the novel feeling bereft of the love and affection he so wanted from his Mom & Dad and just so so sad in general.<br />There is no justice in this novel.	2003-07-31
US	41738785	R1IK0UCB1GGXJR	0525947345	806716529	A Friend of the Family	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a Treat!	Who is this friend of the family?  He is quite a mystery.  And the lives of the boys introduced in this satisfying story about the relationship between three sons prove to be somewhat of a mystery also.  Ms. Jewell has managed to create a genuine-feeling novel about 3 very different men, the women they love and hate, the mother &amp; father they adore, the stranger who seems to know things, and the ensuing clashes they have with each other.<br />Somehow Ms. Jewell has the ability in this book to shift from one son to another through each separate chapter smoothly and without a break in momentum.  When you've finished a chapter and it's now moving on to another character, you think, \\"Oh yes!  What's happening with this person now?\\"  But it wasn't too soon to find out or too late to be moving on.  It was just at the perfect time.  And I love how she has subtitled each chapter, it's a tiny appetizer to whet our appetites for the great meal that's to come.<br />At first I was totally enthralled by Tony's story, who is this guy?  Why is he so obsessed with this other woman and has such a rude derision for the totally nice gal he's with?  Ned's story was just a fluffy, quaint little wrapped story with a wacky beginning and a cotton candy ending.  But in the end, I felt the most satisfied by Sean's story.  You will just have to read it yourself to find out.<br />I am not male with two brothers, but I totally can imagine that this is what it really  and truly could be like.  All in all a completely satisfying, touching, funny, authentic and uplifting story that you will not want to put down.	2003-07-09
US	41738785	R3SUXL1T7752KK	B00008MNWQ	26324951	One-Hit Wonder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lisa Jewell is No 1-Hit Wonder - All her Books are Fabulous	Here is just a little something from this salacious novel to get you going:  \\"This man was obscenely sexual.  He oozed it.  He stank of it.  He may as well have been walking around with a twenty-inch erection growing out of his forehead.\\"  OI, this book is laughing-out-loud good.  Third Lisa Jewell novel I've read and it is the best.  And they are all good.<br />There is this fabulous mystery surrounding Ana's ex-pop-star sister.  And on the journey Ana takes to tear down wall after wall that Bee has put up around who she really was and what her life really was, many things, many good things, start happening to Ana.  And the people she meets along the way are sometimes crazy, disgusting, rude, gorgeous, neurotic, sweet, naked, smelly, confused, serene, sex-crazed, fluffy, short, tall, gangly, muscled, old, precocious, irritating, boring and fat.  I was gripped all the way to the end.  I love love love loved it!  Fresh, fun, riveting, hilarious, surprising & sexy!	2003-07-09
US	41738785	RB8IFM5NDF3VO	0743505174	213222268	The Switch	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time Unless You Have a LONG Commute	I have so many problems with this book.  I will enumerate only a few.<br />The dialogue includes multi-syllabic words uncommon in everyday conversation.  I.e, Chief states, when reflecting upon how he felt looking at the earth from outer space, \\"I just felt superfluous.\\"  This coming from an astronaut who has not used a word with more than 2 syllables until the 25th chapter.  Many of the sentences composed by Ms. Brown are stilted and discordant because of the somewhat advanced vocabulary she has chosen.  These advanced words just pop up sporadically and do nothing to add to the story's fluency.  In fact, they detract from the flow.<br />I did not feel that the story was written by someone of Ms. Brown's extensive experience.  Perhaps she is just getting lazy.  Many times the book read like an immature 9th grader had actually been the one doing the writing.  Although she has created an interesting (but not irresistible) plot, it seems that oftentimes she is just stringing along some words (that often don't sound very good together) to get the book finished and off to the publisher.  I personally find mysteries with a psychotic freak as the central criminal figure a little trite and too easy.  There are so many of those type of stories to choose from.<br />Also, the reading by Jane Maxwell was v. bad.  She made everyone's sentences sound so over-the-top dramatic.  Very annoying.  Perhaps I would have liked this book a little bit more if I had read it myself.  And the cataclysmic surprise at the end becomes obvious by, say, the 12th chapter.  (However, by the end, certain character inconsistencies are explained-so just bear with `em if you plan on reading this book despite all the bad reviews-for me, while I was reading, the inconsistencies were extremely annoying.)	2003-07-03
US	41738785	RY9ONTW3DQMA8	0609804383	333344502	Black Rubber Dress: A Sam Jones Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Totally Whacky	I think I love everything about Sam Jones except her casual, recreational abuse of drugs.  ...But despite being turned off by this \\"heroine's\\" drug use, I totally enjoyed the dialogue, plot, subplots, characters and Sam's whacky, profane conversation with the reader.  Sam is totally funny, totally non-linear and totally \\"hip\\".  ...I think you could say she is the anti-Bridget Jones.  <br />Summary of plot:  Sam makes (affectionately dubbed) \\"Thing II\\" for large bank and becomes friend of Bill, security guy.  Gala night of the sculpture's unveiling, sweet Bill says some bizarre things & then subsequently meets untimely end.  Sam's detectival curiosity goes into overdrive.  She meets and suspects numerous acquaintances of Bill's and finally figures it out in the end.  Tada!  Somethings are somewhat obvious, and there are so many people in this book, Tim Tom Tony Baby Susan Susie Suki Simon etc. etc., I got kind of confused.<br />Enjoyably naughty beach/summer fling read.  However, I will try the third book to see if she wakes up to the hazards of drug abuse.	2003-06-20
US	41738785	R3FWQID3X3TYV3	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	So Much Fun for Shopaholics Everywhere!	This is the tale of a sweet, naive and imaginative (pathologically so) shopaholic who has a very creative job at a very fabulous financial newsletter.  Haha, in her dreams it's fabulous and creative.  Becky Bloomwood is one of the most refreshing characters I have come across in a long, long time.  I read this book in one sitting.  I was so in love w/her character and all her friends and acquaintances and crazy circumstances that she got herself in.  I just could not put the book down until I finished it.  To me, reading this book gave me the best feeling.  Becky Bloomwood is so sincere and earnest there is just no way you will not like her.  This book will just put you in the best mood because it is laugh out loud funny, the heroine is a moral, upright person (except for the totally ridiculous fibs she comes up with-but all for a good cause) that any girl who LOVES to shop and then might have overwhelming credit card bills can relate to on so many different levels, and her love life will have you grasping your sides in pain and then your heart, which many girls might be able to relate with also. (how's that for a run-on sentence!)<br />So if you want to read a book that makes you happy, go out and buy this book right now!  You won't regret it!  Thank you so much, Sophie Kinsella, for creating a character that I think I love more than Bridget Jones!	2003-05-29
US	41738785	RNHIA267REORY	0515116750	17027728	Born in Ice (Born in Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	1	6	17	N	N	Boring Unexciting Characters and Drivel for Plots	(Referring to the Abridged Book on Tape) The only compelling plot line to this story was the discovery of a possible sibling living in America.  I listened to this whole stupid, boring story about a self-centered, self-obsessed, self-everything mystery/thriller writer (insufferable & annoying, i didn't like him & didn't find his character sexy or smart or anything nice, & nora was trying to make him seem so complex & internally torn, but he just ended up being UN-complex & completely see-through) and an independent self-employed country girl (who was nice, i liked her) and the one plot line i was interested WAS NOT EVEN RESOLVED BY THE END OF THE STORY.  of course brianna & grayson were going to get together by the end--obviously, but you didn't know what was going to happen w/this mystery lover her dad had before she was born.  the only compelling thing about the story & it remained unresolved.  <br />BOTTOM LINE:  A COMPLETE WASTE OF TIME.  Brianna & her dog could do a lot better!	2003-03-18
US	41738785	R14QPWEK6WXXYC	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This book was SOOO enjoyable!	this book was a treat!  <br />this is a story of a conceited, over-confident, gorgeous down to his toes, glad-to-be-a-rake rake who goes through some life and personality changes when he meets an ugly, old governess who doesn't treat him like he's God's gift to women.  she has her own personality flaws and through each other they are able to work through their more painful flaws and become better people, while keeping some of their more quirky character flaws.  TRUE LOVE.  makes us better people and we feel loved even though we're imperfect.  <br />i've only read 2 christina dodd stories so far.  this one and &quot;my favorite bride&quot; which i hated.  so i am glad i didn't quit w/my first choice.  because of this book, i think i might read something more from dodd.  <br />though, a warning for those of mild temperaments, the loves scenes, especially the one involving a desk (which i think might be the most titilating passage i've ever read), are so hot, this book could burn down a whole metropolitan library.  so read in a well-ventilated area.  <br />i don't give this book five stars because i think Dodd should have paid a little more attention to Kerrich's point of view.  she only gave us little snippets of how his mind &amp; heart were changing.  perhaps she was trying to be subtle, more of a classical writing style, i don't know.  i think the story would have been more moving if she had penned a few more words of Kerrich's mind.  But all in all, really really enjoyable.	2003-01-09
US	41738785	R138999K6R8DAM	0060092645	979727315	My Favorite Bride (Governess Brides, Book 6)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Sounded a Little Too Familiar	This book started off really really good.  The character Samantha was strong & feisty & fun.  And her blooming relationship with the children was very enjoyable to read.  And Colonel William Gregory promised to be a very sexy commander.<br />However, as the story progressed, the Colonel proved to be just a stodgy, judgmental jerk who believes in guilty until proven innocent.  There were things that Mr. Gregory was doing to catch the spy that were so tranparent it made the fact that he was an experienced commander of men in war, in a spy-ridden land completely unbelievable.  To have a believable spy story, the spy catchers have to be smarter than the spies.  Some of the activity was so dumb and lacking subtlety, it ruined what could have been a good spy plot. The ending was so cliche and predictable and the scene with all the children screamed \\"Sound of Music\\" ripoff.  Some stories that are obviously based on other popular and classic fiction, for example, Julia Quinn's \\"Offer from a Gentleman\\" which was obviously a variation of \\"Cinderella\\", was so well written, and the story so tight & intelligent that you LIKED the story because it was a Cinderella story.  Not so with this book.<br />If you have half a brain, don't bother reading this book.  But if you are in the mood to read a mindless novel about a reformed thief who has strong values and loves children who falls in love with an unbending, military jerk, who didn't seem smart enough to catch a thief (or a spy), then this is the book for you.  Of course, their sexual interludes were well written and exciting.  So for the good sex and Samantha's excellent character, I give this novel 1 star.  Without the sex & Samantha, this book wouldn't even rate.	2003-01-08
US	41738785	R147A40RY4SYB2	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	11	11	N	N	I Would Rate Higher if I Could	This book is hot sexy fire in your hands!  But make sure you read the first story in this series, Then Came You (which is a very good book in itself), where you get to know Derek before he meets this lovely, innocent and oh-so-sweet & likeable Sara Fielding.  Because then you will love this book even more than you would if you read it before the first book, like i did (did that make sense?).  <br />I love how this book is written about people who are on the outskirts of \\"acceptable\\" society.  Sara is such a good, moral and accepting person of all walks of life that you cannot go away from this book without appreciating the strength of her character and wanting to try and be a little bit like her.  Plus the fact that you get to fantasize about being with Derek Craven.  But oh, i forget!  He's just a figment of Lisa Kleypas' tantalizing imagination!<br />If you like white hot interaction and emotions running so high and earnestly that you can feel it yourself in the back of your throat as you try to hold back tears of anquish, READ THIS BOOK.  If you don't like to read books that make you feel the tension of the characters and situations created within, that are boring and non-invigorating, then don't read this book.<br />I entirely enjoyed \\"Dreaming of You\\" (i'm dreaming of you, too!).  Oh if only everyone in love loved each other in this manner with so much intensity and respect for each other, this world would be a completely different place.	2002-11-12
US	41738785	R3C48EI1B9JGYP	038077013X	689464190	Then Came You (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Engrossing, Fast Paced Read	This is the story of Lawless Lily, the heart-breaking quest for her kidnapped daughter, saving her sister from a loveless marriage and throwing her into a full of love marriage, and the inspiring & not-so-surprising fall into a full of love marriage herself.   <br /> <br />I love the stories where the hero & heroine start off hating eachother.  it makes for stimluating & funny dialogue and when the feelings start to change, it makes for super-charged emotions that you can feel yourself.  It was heart-breaking, yet at the same time, FUNNY, how wrong Alex had gotten Lily.  Falling in love definitely takes humility. <br /> <br />I wish I had read this novel before I read \\"Dreaming of You\\" because it really sets the scene quite well for Derek's story.  I think Derek & Sara's story is better written and more enthralling & entertaining.  But Lisa Kleypas pens an exciting read.  However, i recommend her hiring a new editor, since this book had MANY grammatical errors.  Things such as changing the word \\"being\\" to \\"begin\\" really is quite easy to see and quite simple to correct.  BAD JOB to the editor, whoever you are!	2002-11-12
US	41738785	R7X9ZZ0DH7ESL	0446601934	922692393	The Mummy Case	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Bungling, but Nevertheless, Entertaining Mess	The Mummy Case is a story that goes so many places all at the same instance!  I so wanted Amelia and Radcliffe to give over their pride and just admit to each other who they thought the culprit was & why, just so that I would know what was going on in this tangled story!  I'll try not to reveal too much of the confusion, for that might betray who the final culprit(s) are.<br />This third installment of the Amelia Peabody-Emerson journals starts out w/Emerson trying to secure the excavation at Dahshoor.  However M. de Morgan has already decided to excavate there himself & instead gives the Emersons the pathetic sight of Mazghunah.  Unfortunately, in the activities preceding their move to Mazghunah, Peabody has a midnight excursion that leaves one antiquities dealer dead.  However, earlier that same day, Amelia chanced to overhear a conversation he was having where mention was made of \\"The Master\\".  Thus Amelia's detective instincts are vastly prickled and she is out to find this Master Criminal who seems to be in charge of the increase in illegal antiquities trade that has recently come about.  What follows are more murders, more attempts at murder, more attempts at kidnapping, more ridiculous and hilarious Ramses' adventures, more attempts at Peabody and Emerson outsmarting the other and a whole new slew of interesting and bizarre characters.<br />When you read this story, you will finally find yourself out of the murk of the plot in the last chapter or two when the not so logical motive of the murderer is revealed (logical of course in the mentally challenged mind of the murderer) and everything that happened is explained.  I write this review after having already read book four in this series, and i have to say, book four is a serious improvement from book 3.  i liked this book all right but the story was v. bungling and all over the place.  and so many times did i want to yell at Amelia - \\"Listen to your son!!!  He has something important to say!!!\\"  i know he'sannoying & goes on & on & on but he is very smart and is able to see things from a different perspective that she could benefit from.<br />And response to the comment about there being too much sex in this novel.  I don't know why your (self-)righteous feathers were ruffled, all the HINTED and INSINUATED sex occurred between two people who are married.  and the last i heard, that was a righteous and pure expression approved of by God between two people who have committed themselves to each other through the bonds of matrimony.  and really, if you are offended by what you think is a lot of sex in this book, should you really be reading a book that provides as part of its entertainment murder, deceit, thievery and many things unrighteous???	2002-10-10
US	41738785	R3JJNCHCXCFLJG	0786117990	110990359	The Curse of the Pharaohs (An Amelia Peabody Mystery-Book 2)(Library Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I Love My Dear Peabody!	Knowing the new Mrs. Emerson's previous pragmatic and efficiently logical mind, it is fun &amp; interesting to see how she reacts to familial bliss!  And Mr. Emerson's reaction is even more delightful.  <br />With the second story of Amelia and Radcliffe, we see them settling into their picture of family living in the country.  We are introduced to their precocious &amp; vastly entertaining son, nicknamed Ramses.  Mr. Emerson has taken a post of teaching at a local university, and is becoming sadly bored.  In the midst of a romantic interlude, recently widowed Mrs. Baskerville descends upon them in their sitting room and asks very manipulatively if Mr. Emerson would continue the excavation which her deceased husband would undoutedbly have wanted continued and finished to its completion.  Amelia encourages Radcliffe to agree and the two are then off to Luxor, minus one Ramses, who stays in England with his doting aunt and uncle and frightened cousins.  Hilarity, danger, mystery &amp; mass confusion ensues.  We meet a wide and varied cast in Egypt, renew our acquaintance with some familiar faces, and de-mask another cunning and wicked criminal.  <br />Ms. Peters pens another entertaining tale, full of romance, mystery, comedy and surprises!  If you enjoyed the witty &quot;Crocodile on the Sandbank&quot;, you will adore this next story, the continuing tale written in Ms. Amelia Peabody-Emerson's uncompromising and forthright perspective.	2002-09-24
US	41738785	R15BHH9EEK7PBT	0671689746	642069685	Sweet Liar	Books	3	3	5	N	N	This Book is Ok	I've heard this said before about other books, but now it is something that has actually happened to me - with this book.  I remember reading the preview before this novel came out &amp; I was so excited to read it.  However, now it is the year 2002 and I started to read this book, I thought for the first time.  However, when I came to about page 250, the scene when Samantha meets Michael's family at the huge picnic, where all 100, no 200, no 300, no 400, congregated so they could all meet Samantha, i realized I had actually read this book.  Nothing in this novel stood out in my mind, except the family picnic.  And now that I think about it, I think it stood out in my mind because Dougless &amp; Reed were mentioned, who are the characters of my FAVORITE Deveraux novel, Knight in Shining Armor, and I wish &amp; wish &amp; wish I could read more about them.  But anyways, for my review of this book, I would have to give it 3.5 stars.  The book seemed to lag.  It didn't really flow.  It felt like it took me forever to finish.  The last 75 pages or so sped up, I wish the whole novel would have been written with the same action and interest that the last part of the book had.  I really like Michael Taggert, he is a total dream and a half, but Samantha's character seemed really self-righteous and bratty and totally oblivious.  Her life was extremely sad, but I don't think that gives us an excuse to be self-righteous.  However, her character started to change, a little, and she became more bearable.  I think this story just tells us how much men appreciate a challenge.  But one thing i REALLY liked about this novel was the setting!  Living in NYC would be soooooo totally an amazing experience.  I have mixed feelings about this book.  It was extremely sad and painful in some parts.  And it was totally sweet and amazing and awesome in some parts.  All in all, I believe it is an average job for Ms. Deveraux; however, average for Deveraux is quite good in the wide world of female romantic fiction.  This isn't a rave review, but it's not a rotten one either.  It's an average review.  But I guess I expect a lot when I am reading a Jude Deveraux novel.  :-)  I didn't like &quot;High Tide&quot; either.  That one is a skipper. But this was much better than that novel.  So if you read &quot;High Tide&quot; and liked it, you'll really like &quot;Sweet Liar&quot;.  (And does anyone know of families like the Montgomerys and Taggerts where all the men are gorgeous, all the women are drop dead beautiful, and everyone of them has, or ends up having, lots and lots more money than the average American?  Why am I complaining though, this is FICTION!)	2002-09-18
US	41738785	R26ZU0SQSCBF5T	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Very Enjoyable	Romancing Mr. Bridgerton.  I don't think this title fit the story.  But whatever.  I really really enjoyed this book, and almost stayed up all night to finish reading it, but my husband was sad w/o me in bed.  Penelope is the typical Wallflower, her own shyness has caused her to not be very noticeable.  Colin is charming and sweet, and has almost consistently been compassionately kind to Penelope.  I say compassionate, because sometimes it was due to pity that he was kind.  Penelope is befriended and soulfully encouraged by the outrageous, tell-it-like-it-is Mrs. Danbury.  With this friendship, Penelope starts expressing her inner feelings & opinions in the presence of the ton, to everyone's surprise.  No one (minus those that really know her, like her best friend Eloise & Eloise's mother, Matriarch Bridgerton) ever surmised that Penelope actually had a brain.  Most of the dialogue is believable & natural and sometimes downright heartwrenching.  However, there are moments when the dialogue feels forced and fake, and I concur with the other reviewers when they say it seemed like Ms. Quinn was just filling up space.  Most of this book is truly an enjoyable read.  I have only read one other of the Bridgerton series, Benedict & Sophia's story, which I thought was also very enjoyable.  But I like this story better.  I felt more when I was reading it.  For the readers who didn't find any change in Penelope, I don't think you were reading v. well.  Penelope was forced by her mother to wear colors that were not complimentary, previously she had never spoke her mind because of her debilitating shyness but with someone as open & outrageous as Mrs. Danbury encouraging her, telling her that maybe there is something more to her, she was able to open up & not be so shy around people.  Penelope did change in this book, and also Colin grew up and was able to finally SEE Penelope for who she was, not his little sister's best friend, but a WOMAN who had quite a BRAIN in her and who gave him the courage and confidence that his writing might actually be worth something.  I give this book 4.5 stars, due to areas where the dialogue was less than up to Julia Quinn's normal par and felt stunted & unnatural. I CANNOT wait for Eloise's story.	2002-09-17
US	41738785	RYJGH9WMTDC0D	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This Book Provides Pure Enjoyment	I have just finished this book this a.m.  I am supremely delighted in how it ended, it was the only logical ending.  :-)  Amelia Peabody starts off as a intelligent, slightly arrogant, determined-to-be spinster.  Sets off on an adventure in Egypt after solely inheriting her father's surprise enormous investments.  She rescues a beautiful young girl, on the brink of ultimate self-destruction, and helps this girl to have a new vigor for life.  Amelia herself is transformed by her acquaintances.  Only for the better, of course.  If you enjoy a good mystery, with a dab of romance put into the works, you will absolutely be completely satisfied with Elizabeth Peter's first installment of the Amelia Peabody chronicles.  I have not yet had the opportunity to read further into the series, I just discovered their existence 2 weeks ago, but I am so thankful for Amazon and all its customers & all their lists.  I would be so sad, had I never chanced to read this delightful novel.  I cannot attest to the story's historical, hieroglyphical, and antiquital accuracy; however, I have read that Ms. Peters is actually an avid student of Egypt and all things old.  So perhaps, this story has much accuracy amidst its satiating pages.  I give this book FIVE stars & would give it more, if more were possible.  Bravo Ms. Peters for writing the best novel I have read in a Long while.  THANK YOU SOOOOO MUCH FOR CREATING AMELIA & ALL HER FRIENDS AND FOES FOR US TO KNOW, AND LOVE & HATE!	2002-09-13
US	41738785	R1BNMADS4XOPBP	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	this book is EXPLOSIVE!!!	just like EVERY SINGLE ONE OF STEPH'S CARS!!!!  i don't know how it is possible for one human being to go through so many vehicles.  i don't think it is possible.  but this is fiction, so anything goes, right?  and with that in mind, evanovich's eighth installment of the goofy & crass stephanie series completely, and i mean COMPLETELY TOTALLY ABSOLUTELY, satisfies, like mind altering sex will (think RANGER and yourself - oh my god!).  the story line is bizarre (of course - what else could you expect?) and the (coincidental) twists many.   as usual, evanovich introduces new characters that are so individual and alive and real that we completely love them or hate them.  the k-l-o-u-g-h-n is totally squeezably adorable.  and grandma mazur is still up to all her young tricks - she won't leave you without a hoot of laughter.  and ranger & morelli are so totally intense you have to stop reading to catch your breath.  or actually, RANGER is so intense I had to stop reading, catch my breath & fan myself for ten minutes.  all in all, this book was totally titillating, envigorating and opens up a little bit more the world of stephanie plum.  what the [heck] is going to happen in book NINE????  this reader CANNOT WAIT!	2002-08-27
US	41738785	RY0TIRK37YW1B	0671891081	28431139	The Blessing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This Book is Good	I started out reading this book with a v. doubtful perspective.  i had bought it for ($$$) at half price books before reading any reviews.  i then read customer reviews & it seemed nobody really thought it was any good.  so perhaps because i was expecting to regret my purchase because the book was going to be horrible, i really & truly enjoyed this book.  i appreciated how honest jude was in describing the heroine.  she wasn't some amazing character that you couldn't relate too.  she was poor & funny & a tired tired young mother.  i appreciated how the 2 years past within the book & amy thought she had changed a lot but she really was just the same gal but with just a little bit more confidence.  and how jason changed from a man who thought he knew everything to a man who was so tore up about a GIRL from a small town who married a (man) that he couldn't even think straight.  true love does crazy things to a person & the only thing i didn't like about this book was how the reader is supposed to believe that a child is van gogh or a renoir or a monet at the ripe age of THREE!  right!	2002-08-27
US	41738785	RVXNOJ29GO1J1	0671034022	378094364	Mercy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	You think you know exactly what is going on....	This book is better than Julie's first attempt at contemporary writing, Heartbreaker.  (Course this is all just my humble opinion.)  I think i liked this story better because the antagonists in this story weren't all homicidal maniacs.  And i appreciated how much we saw of Theo's point of view.  The plot was very interesting and the characters were v. alive and funny.  It would have been fun to have seen a little more of Nick &amp; Laurent, but I was satisfied with Noah being so prevalent in the story.  (Perhaps Julie's next contemporary will chronicle his discovery of true unending white-hot love?)<br />All in all, the mystery &amp; the characters &amp; the plot were quite satisfying.  It is a definite page-turner with some quite surprising twists.	2002-08-07
US	41738785	R2ABK1ZMX300FY	067101417X	354206388	High Tide	Books	2	0	0	N	N	2.5 stars - in terest ing	this book was interesting, only because it was crafted by jude deveraux's magnificent wit. fiona seemed a little full of herself. ace was your typical romantic hero. if you want a good jude deveraux read, pick up \\"THE DUCHESS\\" and you will NOT be disappointed.	2002-07-31
US	41738785	RMSBM6CO580MK	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Instant Classic	holy cow!  i could just die, i love this series so much!  however, i give the fifth installment in the series only 4 stars, or actually, i would give it 4.5 stars because, i felt the story line was weighted down by a little toooooo much detail & history.  the story is still incredible, there are still amazing & surprising turns everywhere, but the story seemed weighted down by too many words.  but i still LOVE this book.	2002-07-24
US	41738785	R3T7O2WGAOTDR7	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Instant Classic	since there are already over 1,000 reviews of this book that introduces us to rand, moraine, lan, egwene, nynaeve, mat &amp; perrin, i shall keep my review short &amp; simple.  if you are interested in a world entirely its own, so well described and presented that you feel like it is the world you are living in yourself, please read this unfinished (as of yet) series, beginning with this book.  the first book in &quot;the wheel of time&quot; is a solid five star read.  you will not be disappointed.	2002-07-24
US	41738785	RNNDMWOSRWP7C	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Instant Classic	Book Two in the Wheel of Time does not disappoint.  The characters that became like friends in book one are back &amp; you get to know them with even greater clarity.  the history written into the story of this world is so complete, it sort of becomes the history of our world.  it is an amazing work of art that robert jordan has constructed for readers.  it makes my mouth go dry thinking of how well robert jordan has developed these characters and the world in which they live.	2002-07-24
US	41738785	RZ6CTY6JPJ176	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Instant Classic	i am HOOKED!!! this series is so well developed by robert jordan, i don't want him to die!!!  because then we wouldn't see the end of the Wheel of Time.  the story is riveting.  you won't want to put the book down, but you'll have to or else you might start hallucinating from the lack of sleep!	2002-07-24
US	41738785	R12HL02JR5EFLK	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Instant Classic	oh light!!!  could i love rand any more than i do?  robert jordan comes back at us with his sixth installment, and there are some major happenings & shocking revelations in this book.  and amazingly we are still given even more information and history regarding the wheel of time world.  it's so amazing!  do not be mislead, the wheel of time series is NOT light reading; however, despite its weight & depth, it is the most consuming & riveting read you will find.  this book has more action than book five & therefore, i give it five stars.	2002-07-24
US	41738785	R19EQ9N5P1TRQM	0553802003	261836081	Don't Look Back	Books	5	6	8	N	N	lavinia & tobias spark & sizzle!	i think it is so interesting how varied opinions can be about books.  i've read many of the reviews for the lake & march series & it appears that many are disappointed by this series.  i, however, was absolutely delighted & enthralled reading about lake & march.  i adore each of their characters & how they are adjusting to each other, becoming more aware of the deeper & deeper affect they are having on each other & realizing how truly singular & important their relationship is.  and i love all the supporting characters, emeline & anthony are totally sweet & ms. dove is perfect & the introduction of mr. vale is riveting.  and the mystery is well developed.  there are many plot lines & additional characters that add to the pace & the puzzle, & muddles up a reader's usual ability to see the culprit from the beginning in the normally not well-thought out romance novel mystery.  i completely enjoyed reading this tale of murder, theivery & mystery, love awakening between two older, mature individuals who think a passionate & enduring love is not possible for them, and deserved mutual respect between individuals of varied classes.  if you like mysteries with a little romance to spice & liven up the story, you will totally enjoy \\"don't look back\\".  i am wishing & hoping that amanda quick will deliver another lake/march mystery for us soon.  i hope i hope i hope!	2002-07-23
US	41738785	RY2ZSMOCGBWM9	0553583360	894815376	Slightly Shady	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a BREATH of FRESH AIR!!	\\"slightly shady\\" is such a fresh, breezy & fun ride in the world of romance novels.  it's like breathing in fresh, revitalizing ocean air on a beach in maui after living in a big, bustling, polluted city for years & years & years & never leaving.  this book is different from most in its genre & some who don't prefer mystery with an endearing romance in its folds (in the same modern manner as the stephanie plum series, by janet evanovich, that is so well known & well loved today) will not appreciate its true value.  this book is written in a more reserved manner for quick, and i truly truly felt it was a breath of fresh air.  lavinia is a woman who knows exactly what she's about & has a tremendous backbone & will not allow herself to be taken advantage of.  v. unusual traits in the women of her time, many who just listen & make no comment & don't even have opinions themselves.  march is determined, fiercely intelligent & v. caring.  the supporting characters are well defined.  the mystery is riveting & the dialogue between these two main characters is quite entertaining.  granted there isn't as much sex sex sex in this novel as there are in normal romance novels, but i think that just adds to the freshness & uniqueness of the story.  these are all very real characters and in quick's fit hands, stick to their characters all throughout the story & therefore allow us to get to know them better & better as the mystery unfolds.  i must warn you, though, once you finish slightly shady, you will want to immediately read \\"don't look back\\" which continues lavinia's & tobias' story.  and then, when you read \\"don't look back\\" you still will not be satisfied!  you will still be left wanting more of lavinia & march & emeline & anthony & joan & mrs. chilton.....hurry up ms. quick & give us some more of these great characters!  you're killing me!	2002-07-23
US	41738785	R1TCTL3YPM7YAO	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	as good as the first time....	I am in love with Stephanie.  And Morelli & Grandma Mazur & Lula & Ranger & Sally.  This fourth insert of the Plum chronicles is as good as the first.  Maxine & Francine & Margie & Eddie & Sugar & Sally, these new characters are so vivid, you would think you lived across the street from them yourself.  There is so much crazy fun action going on you can become obsessed in reading this book.  I know I did.  There are multiple plot lines yet the story doesn't become muddled and it isn't totally obvious to the reader what exactly is going on.  Suspense & unpredictacality in numero quattro.  And there is a lot of heat between Morelli & Plum that is just sugar sex chocolate for your eyes and mind.  I cannot wait to read number SIX! (side point, plum has known morelli quite intimately, yet she didn't know he owned a ducati - how is this possible????)	2002-07-10
US	41738785	R16UNL9MK2FTJ6	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	this story is VIVID!	breath of fresh jersey air!!!!  major props to ms. evanovich for creating such a real, likeable, hilarious, vivid character!  strong yet vulnerable, take charge and quick learning stephanie plum will absolutely delight your mind as you read this hysterical book in one sitting!  the story is so interesting & moves so quickly (like a gazelle) you will want to rush out when you are finished with \\"one for the money\\" and get books 2-8!  oh, and there's just the right smattering of romance.  i loved! this book, i'm so glad someone told me about it!!!	2002-07-02
US	41738785	R2EC45Y1V8AKBU	0553561537	840434615	Desire	Books	2	2	8	N	N	quick has written better...	\\"Desire\\" took a while to get to any weighty plot of any sort.  i think it wasn't until about 2/3 of the way through the book, when things started happening.  the beginning 2/3 is just about the hero & heroine getting to know each other, of Gareth insulting Clare because he totally believes she isn't a virgin, of us being told how much Gareth wants LAND of his own & how no one is going to take it away from him, and of how Clare isn't going to start letting this man give orders around her island.  so basically the plot of the first 2/3 of the book is twofold,  when will gareth realize clare is a virgin and how will these two characters, who are both so used to being boss, compromise & live together in harmony?  not very breathtaking plots indeed.  with the introduction of one of the villagers' murder, the measly plots thicken.  however, it is not too long into this new string of mystery, that the culprit becomes quite obvious.  there is one mystery that came as quite a delightful surprise in the very ending, which would have been obvious to me had i been paying slightly more attention to this somewhat boring tripe.  ms. quick sticks to her normal heroine recipe & this heroine is extremely into making perfume and pretty smelling things & makes a lot of money in the process.  however, i only received a little more knowledge about perfume making than i already had, & i know barely anything about making perfume.  so i'd say this character & the information revealed about her special hobby wasn't up to quick standard.  however, despite all this, the story was still fun to read, even though it was a little slow going and it wasn't up to quick standard.  and because quick has a way of creating a fun atmosphere i still give the book 2 stars, despite its shortcomings.  (AND, who wants to carry a book around with the ridiculous title \\"DESIRE\\"???)	2002-07-02
US	41738785	R3Q48ZEODRLW7H	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	still a funny good read	hurrah!  bridget has returned!  this book was thoroughly funny!  though i have to dock it one star because towards the end, it seemed quite predictable &amp; a little cliche (her predicament seemed quite familiar, nothing new...) but Bridget is still hysterical!  definitely read the first bridget jones' novel before you read this one.	2002-06-27
US	41738785	R27J649CK8Z6LZ	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	HILARIOUS!!!	i received this book from a friend who had read it (& i had the great pleasure read while i was traveling in England) & i wholeheartedly recommend it to any girl who is single or who has ever been single - that's all of us, ladies!!!  those who loved pride & prejudice will especially love this story.  it's loosely based on that story (tho maybe not that loosely, the guy's name is Mark Darcy after all...)  Bridget Jones is hysterical, her take one things will have you laughing out loud.  Also, the crazy things she gets herself into will have you laughing out loud!  A definite must-read.  Definitely read the american version, unless you know how to translate english weight system to our pounds....	2002-06-27
US	41738785	R6OL2ZPMFSDQ1	0671001701	938371139	Legend	Books	5	2	3	N	N	if you liked Knight in Shining Armor...	you will definitely like Legend.  time travel is the best when there is a hot guy involved!  you will love elizabeth kady long.  she is not your perfect woman, she is a REAL woman with a real body &amp; a real personality &amp; real problems and fears.  a girl you can identify with for real!  the story takes you on quite an adventure &amp; you will love it!	2002-06-26
US	41738785	R3JDIXQ00JZHNC	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	2	10	12	N	N	i've read better by julie	this story seemed a little too familiar.  it wasn't because i'd read it before, it was because brenna & connor were so similar to some of the other characters julie has created for us to love.  this story seemed to stick very closely to a predictable formula of romantic fiction & it's predictability prevented it from standing above the millions of stories in this genre.  (and i have to admit i really felt manipulated when i realized i was supposed to feel sorry for brenna because she thought she was deformed because she had really long legs & huge breasts!  please!  she felt deformed because she looks like a supermodel?  give me a BREAK!  it made me want to puke!!!)  and connor seemed like most of the time he was just a bossy, chauvenistic (sorry about that spelling!) jerk.  and how could someone be so blind as to not see what a HUGE witch her mother-in-law was?  have a backbone, dear!  i was disappointed in this book & wouldn't recommend it.  if you like stories about Lairds, read RANSOM instead.  that book was EXCELLENT.  that book makes you want to kiss Brodick yourself, not slap Connor.  (though i have to still give it 2 stars because Julie Garwood does write an interesting story, even if it is predictable & you don't really like the characters.)	2002-06-26
US	41738785	RNJNQZHLHZN7E	0553574078	20352432	Affair	Books	4	5	6	N	N	smart guys are sexy	ok, let me start off by saying that since this guy is super into chemistry, the reference in his point of view regarding alchemy, chemistry, chemicals, experiments does get a little overbearing.  but other than that, baxter is one sexy smart guy.  one of the best things about this story is how the heroine helps this \\"bastard\\" resolve his family relations.  course amanda has used this ploy before in her books.  but it stills works for me.  the only problem with this book is what i mentioned at the beginning.  the plot is good & the story moves fast so you stay interested.	2002-06-26
US	41738785	R17WR6D5WWHPPH	0671705091	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the Best Romances of ALL TIME	THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST ROMANTIC NOVELS YOU WILL EVER READ. The elements in this book are so ecstatically satisfying, you will be weeeping with pleasure and joy and incredulity the first time you read Dougless & Nicholas' story.  Their story is so sweet and compelling and fantastical, that you will weep again when you finish the book because you are so sad that it ended.  It would be a SHAME to never have known Dougless and her knight in shining armor - so PLEASE, go out & get this book & read it!!!  200+ other readers cannot all be wrong about this book, can they?  (and having read quite a few romantic books, i'd have to say this book has to be in the TOP FIVE as far as sex goes - oh my god, mind bending HOT!)	2002-06-26
US	41738785	R3HMUMVMC171TX	0671003364	792256877	Ransom	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Fun!	\\"Ransom\\" is one helluva good read.  i was transfixed as i got to know Gillian, her courage & bravery & compassion.  and little alec was so much fun, too!  brodick is super sexy & not too bossy & has just the right amount of vulnerability to not seem like an overwhelming jerk.  :-)  if you like adventure & mystery, definitely read this.  (though i will say, it seemed like once alec was safe at home, gillian didn't really think all that much about him.  from what i discerned of her character, i would have thought she'd be thinking about him more in the story, but he's barely mentioned after he's back w/his parents.  and i totally agree with everyone who said that bridgid & ramsey could have had their own book!  julie!  write another book about those two!  they were so much fun!)  this book really takes you in & you feel like you know these people.  very well written & developed characters.  thank you, julie!	2002-06-26
