US	41846687	R31KV6VHBP2JG2	006093526X	624987521	The Marriage Problem: How Our Culture Has Weakened Families	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Excellent background information on the topic	Wilson's book goes beyond the surface of a lot of the talk about the state of the family today.  Unlike some other publications geared toward the religous community, this is purely a secular work, even if it does confirm many of the problems pointed out by pro-family Catholic and evangelical groups. <br /> <br />The thesis is this:  in the wake of society's overall material wealth and the advancement of individual rights, both good things in general, the state of marriage as a societal good has declined considerably.  In too many cases, the cohesive unit that functioned as a means of protection, support, and guidance for children has lost its glue, and the government has come to step in and perform some of these functions in certain situations, which isn't necessarily a good thing. <br /> <br />The chapter-by-chapter layout takes a look at the problem from different angles (single motherhood, divorce, African-American slavery, etc.) and compares the trends not with a romanticized ideal, but with what other cultures have done historically, to determine whether this trend is an anomaly or something to be expected, and where it might lead. <br /> <br />Among the more interesting tidbits is the fact that for whatever problem no-fault divorce has had today, it was not the result of a nefarious plan by feminists or others whose goal is to take down the family structure.  Rather it was the unintended consequences of a plan to make technical corrections to the law to comply with what had become practice.  The drafters of the no-fault laws were working under the naive assumption that these changes to remove the threat of a judical order finding fault would be complemented with government incentives to enter therapy and reconcile before the order be given.  When this didn't happen, the no-fault divorce provisions made it easier to dissolve the marriage without any restrictions. <br /> <br />This detail was to highlight that you're not getting a political or cultural polemnicin this book, but rather a systematic discourse on the problem with angles not normally seen in this debate.	2005-04-16
US	41846687	R3Q9HIFR1TOSRN	0830832130	990630680	The Right Questions: Truth, Meaning & Public Debate	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Not bad, even if the topic is a little esoteric	This book by Johnson takes a step back from the moshpit of the evolution vs. intelligent design and actually addresses intramural debates among believers (more specifically, Christian educators) over whether and to what extent the faith in God should enter the discussion over the meaning of life sciences.  Even going back to the first event that created what we know as the universe, there is necessarily going to have to be some answers over what it means, which means that \\"ultimate\\" questions will have to be formulated. <br /> <br />Johnson's answer, provided in the final chapter, to his question of what the most important event in history should suprise no one:  the incarnation of Jesus Christ on earth.  Creator becomes creature, theology becomes human history, and two fields of study converge.  Johnson does leave some wiggle room by stating that people might disagree with the accounts of Jesus of Nazareth, but they can't be left from the realm of discussion altogether. <br /> <br />Some might accuse Johnson of pointing every question to the same answer, but any set of assumptions that always reject any conclusion at all is an even more suspicious worldview to live by. <br /> <br />The fact that this addresses a secondary topic may limit its readability to a wide audience among believers, but that's not to say this might prove to have a long-term effect, if Christian educators pay heed to Johnson's advice.	2005-04-16
US	41846687	R1UUVRHUPRVOSY	0739106686	302287662	On Ordered Liberty: A Treatise on the Free Society (Religion, Politics, and Society in the New Millennium)	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Solid survey of an important topic	The preface includes this quote by Alexis de Tocqueville:  \\"Nothing is more fertile than the art of being free, but nothing is harder than freedom's apprenticeship.\\"  (p.xii)  This highlights the purpose of this book -- to describe and analyze the issues that have arisen in the post-aristocratic world of modern times.  Liberty is nearly universally valued as a good thing, but defining what liberty really is and applying it correctly has produced much more difficulty.  Gregg's book is a short but fruitful tour of the competing theories on how to preserve the liberty everyone so desires.<br /><br />The first six chapters are organized by function:  the first two chapters provide some philosophical background on the topic; the third chapter analyzes what people are talking about when they speak of liberty (\\"freedom to _____\\"); the fourth and fifth chapters concern how to make laws and establish a state, respectively, to preserve these rights; the sixth chapter discusses the role of nongovernmental associations and the importance of providing a check against the state's power if necessary.<br /><br />Throughout these chapters, the same types of issues permeate the discussion.  Does liberty carry with it a moral obligation to be virtuous and to require it of others?  Is an appeal to an absolute standard of truth necessary in order to make the case for liberty?  If the answers are yes, then what virtues or truths should they be?  Can we rely on our human nature and capabilities as a guideline, or do we have to tailor our government to assume that left to our own devices, we will destroy ourselves?  What principles do we use to mark out a position in between?  Although ordered liberty is most associated with a question of designing an optimal government, this necessarily carries some assumptions about the nature of mankind, and this is not left out of the discussion.<br /><br />The last chapter is a more informal and personal one, one in which the author discusses how the Catholic Church and individual Catholics should engage in the public debate, as well as the danger of having public policy expressed by people of faith disqualified because their motivations are labeled as religious in nature.<br /><br />This is a good gateway book, complete with endnotes at the end of each chapter for further exploration.w the Catholic Church and individual Catholics should engage in the public debate, as well as the danger of having public policy expressed by people of faith disqualified because their motivations are labeled as religious in nature. <br /> <br />This is a good gateway book, complete with endnotes at the end of each chapter for further exploration.	2005-04-16
US	41846687	RI6MMZ3XP17RL	0895260212	963906464	Outrage: How Gay Activists and Liberal Judges are Trashing Democracy to Redefine Marriage	Books	5	16	33	N	N	A concise look at the culture war	Judging by the list of reviews that are either glowing 5-star reviews or 1-star bitter diatribes, this book has had the intended effect: to provide a clear and concise argument against the gay agenda.  The fact that those who hate this book so much are trying to portray it as a personal attack on gays shows a bit of desperation, in my opinion.<br /><br />Sprigg correctly addresses both elements of the homosexual rights movement -- the \\"rights-based\\" side (where they attempt to get a judge to rule certain restrictions unconstitutional) and the public policy side (where the activists engage in the political process), and presents the arguments in a clear manner.<br /><br />If you are already well-versed in the debate, this might not present that much that is new (though Sprigg does incorporate some contemporary angles that have come up, such as Rosie O'Donnell's recent public advocacy and Britney Spears' 55-hour marriage).  However, to those who haven't followed the details and want a one-stop place to get the boiled-down synthesis of the reasons to oppose gay marriage, whether it be imposed by the courts or considered in the legislature, this book is a very good place to start.	2005-04-16
US	41846687	RGPSUI53KLTTP	1890626058	20544411	The Age of Consent: The Rise of Relativism and the Corruption of Popular Culture	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Familiar territory, but better than most.	The Bible verse that opens the preface sums it up nicely:  \\"And they all with one consent began to make excuse.\\"  (Luke 14:18)   <br /> <br />The age of consent, in the way that Knight uses it here, refers to an era in which absolute authority (or even the attempt to appeal to absolute authority) has been drowned out in a flood of changes to the modern cultural pillars (largely the entertainment and cultural fields) that have rendered equal every lifestyle, no matter how destructive or self-absorbed it becomes.  In anticipation of the counterargument that suggests that if another person does what he or she wants, it's nobody's business but their own, Knight lays out the landscape of what the cultural fields look like as compared to just a few decades ago.  The institutions that have buttressed society and made them better -- the family, religion, and sound education -- have become the targets of the relatively recent cultural barrage.  In this sense, Knight argues, it affects everybody, especially the generations that grow up with this environment being the norm. <br /> <br />Although there are separate chapters on each of the two subjects, Knight is concerned about more than just the exaltation of sex and the denigration of God in the culture.  The linchpin of his argument is that by dismantling the mechanisms to discern good from bad -- in other words, by making all things equal -- it only festers a further breeding ground for the more base desires to be promoted underneath a glossy veneer of \\"tolerance\\" and so-called progressive enlightenment. <br /> <br />One of the ways to distinguish between these types of books is, now that they have described the problem, what is to be done about it?  The final chapter of the book points to positive trends in the hope that it provides a transition into an overall improvement, which Knight details in several bullet points to express how the cultural change will have not only moral improvements, but also fiscal improvements asthere will be fewer personal messes for the government to clean up. <br /> <br />Even though it came out several years ago, most of the book is not confined to that timeframe.  Most of it is still relevant today.	2005-04-10
US	41846687	R1JEZ83LRYEDNO	0380007851	930950241	The Great Political Theories, Vol. 1	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent survey of western political thought	In the introduction, Curtis writes this as the essence of the subject of these books: <br /> <br />\\"The core of political philosophy has always been the study of those central institutions, organizations and personnel that have the power to issue directions and rules, and the relationship of the governed to government.  The recurring problems of political philosophy are those concerning the nature of society, law, obligation, rights, duties, command, responsiblity and obedience.  In modern theory, there has been a preoccupation with sovereignty, power, influence, and groups.\\" <br /> <br />Over the course of both volumes, Curtis presents a methodical layout of these issues, starting with the ancient Greeks to modern times, and it lives up to the aspirations stated up front.  The ebb and flow of the often multiple jurisdictions and centers of power within a state often bring about the same questions in different eras.  What rights do an individual have against the power of the state, and from where does this power derive? <br /> <br />A related question to this necessarily involves what the proper role a citizen or group has within the government, whether they should be identified solely as one of the whole, or whether they are members of a higher order, or whether their primary identity should be derived as biological and rational animals under the laws of nature. <br /> <br />As evidence that this is concerned only with theory and not history (where some leaders may have corrupted the theory), Marxism and nationalism, two of the most often-arising philsophies of the 20th century, are only given brief treatment, and even then, only on its merits as a theory, not practice. <br /> <br />The publishing date of the book may require some revisions of the organization of the later chapters, but for a brief two-volume collection of the writings on political philsophy, this book is a good buy.	2005-04-09
US	41846687	R3SKR0KXULAOTK	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A Story About Identity	Professor Starling, neuroscientist, discoverer of the \\"cultural para-stimuli\\", and the subject of the mock Nobel Laureate entry that begins the book, puts forward a hypothesis in his lecture (p. 283):    \\"'Let's say you pick up a rock and you throw it.  And in mid-flight you give that rock consciousness and a rational mind.  That little rock will think it has free will and will give you a highly rational account of why it has decided to take the route it's taking.'  So later on we will get to 'the conscious little rock,' and you will be able to decide for yourself: 'Am I really...merely...a conscious little rock?'\\"    After the lecture (one in which she gave an answer that impressed the professor, thrilling her to no end), Charlotte is depicted as having \\"found the life of the mind and was...living it!\\"  In fact, \\"all about her moved her 6,200 fellow students, or a great many of them, in midflight, blithely ignorant of the fact that they were merely conscious little rocks, every one of them, whereas...I am Charlotte Simmons.\\"  [p.285]    Both before and after this moment, Charlotte displays equal parts shame, loneliness and vainity regarding her contrast with the other students at Dupont.  These characteristics are what get her into trouble and lead to her downfall, as seen both in her desire not to be the \\"tumor\\" at the Saint Rays formal and in her thrill at making someone like Hoyt Thorpe look lovingly at her, and possibly mean it for once, at least for a moment.  That's why her loss of virginity is much more than about the loss of her sexual purity.    I don't think the purpose of the vulgarity of Dupont's student life is meant to be an indictment of contemporary college life, even though I can see at least a faint resemblance with my own experience at a state university ten years removed.  The purpose is to severely disrupt Charlotte's vision of Dupont being a place where she didn't have to deal with the Channings of her home town any more.  What's worse, unlikeher house at Sparta, she couldn't find a refuge from such a crass atmosphere.  That said, I think there's just a bit of overkill in the crude language.    The last chapter, titled \\"Ghost in the Machine\\", returns to the topic of the questions lingering inside her of what it means to say to herself, \\"I am Charlotte Simmons\\".  That she is not referred to by her proper name -- but as somebody's girlfriend -- as the story closes gives an indication of what's left resolved and what isn't.  It ends like a melancholy prequel to the mid-life crisis that is certain to come down the road.    It's a fun read, even if the descriptions of the atmosphere sometimes may overwhelm the plot and character development.    [BTW, some of these elements -- the fascination with rural dialect and accent, teen sex, and the problem of the conscious \\"I\\" -- are present in Wolfe's collection of essays and a short story, \\"Hooking Up\\" (2000).]	2005-01-10
US	41846687	RIG6FFOKERBPU	188292682X	340756670	The First Grace: Rediscovering the Natural Law in the Post-Christian World	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Natural Law as Both a Moral and Jurisdictional Issue	At the end of the introduction, Hittinger highlights the starting point for his book:<br />\\"When the Pope's commission of moral theologians argued for the priority of a human dominion in which human practical reason supplies the concrete norms, or when the Supreme Court declared in Casey that the individual has natural immunity from positive law in the matter of abortion, it is important to understand that these are not moral arguments but claims about what is prior to arguments.  The answer to this question is entirely relevant to morals, but nothing in the logic of moral argument per se can win the case.  The question turns upon considerations of anthropology and theology.  To attempt to rediscover the natural law in a post-Christian world we must pick up the discussion precisely at this point.\\"<br />Hittinger then builds his case from the ground up, starting with a discussion of the intra-Catholic debate over the character of natural law, and then asserting that natural law is in fact an external \\"law\\" (not something determined solely by the capacity of human reason), that it is present in the positive (written secular) law, and (most importantly) that the authority and duty to apply natural law principles more often than not rests in the legislative function rather than the non-legislative function of government.  In this way, Hittinger makes the case for both natural law and judicial restraint simultaneously, and separates an often-blurred issue into two distinct issues:  a) is the government activity in compliance with natural law, and b) does the particular government official have the authority to do it?  If either answer to the question is \\"no\\", then natural law has been violated.<br />In Part 2, Hittinger points to specific examples in which the natural law has been invoked not only for unprecedented principles, but also where the power to decide the natural law principles has been taken out of the rightful authority.  The right of privacy that was expanded under one abortion case (Roe v. Wade) was expanded further, to an unchecked right of liberty in another abortion case (Planned Parenthood v. Casey).  The attempt to transfer authority to terminate life via assisted suicide is a violation of the principle resting the authority in the state to make such considerations.  The secularist interpretation of the First Amendment's Establishment Clause is an attempt by the Court to bootstrap its own precedent as the governing principles, instead of the Constitution itself.<br />Some of the problem is related to the difference between the Constitution itself and the Amendments, including the Bill of Rights.  While the former is a spare outline of the limits of government power and allocating power between the branches of the federal government and between the federal and state governments, the Bill of Rights and many of the subsequent amendments speak of rights, and only vaguely expressed rights at that.  This was an invitation for the definition and application of these rights to be expanded not through the legislature or the states, but through the judiciary.<br />Some of the material may be difficult to follow along due to the ethereal subject matter, but it is worth taking the time to read carefully again if necessary in order to grasp the state of the debate in natural law theory.	2004-06-26
US	41846687	RRWZ23G4O9957	1566633052	503401688	Sexual Liberation or Sexual License?: The American Revolt Against Victorianism (American Ways Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Better than advertised here.	For those who can't fathom that the change in sexual mores over the past century has been something far short of an unmitigated good thing, or for those without the courage to question the evidence on their side of this bitter debate, then this book is going to be a hard read.  Defense mechanisms, such as belittling the author for stating what they think is obvious (references to Hugh Hefner, Jerry Lee Lewis, Mae West, etc.) and ad hominem attacks for daring to quote Robert Bork, overlook the fact that despite the multiple references to the influence of pop culture, White has a deeper analysis for the causes of how America moved away from the Victorian culture.  He also questions how much America has really moved away from the Victorian standard, despite a pop culture that is insaturated with sexuality.<br />White's assessment of the Victorian culture is not an ideal standard -- he acknwledges that the law made divorces difficult (but less difficult over the period) and that the strict rules (including a double standard between men and women's sexual mores) resulted in an underworld that explicitly rejected those standards.  <br />The causes of this drift from Victorianism in the mainstream culture are as much technological and economic as they are moral.  As more leisure time was created through technological advances, as women were able to be economically independent, as the \\"dating\\" system proved to be an end around the traditional rules of courtship, and as society as a whole changed due to the changes in the economic infrastructure, the Victorian rules could no longer be sustained.  <br />However, this portion of the analysis is descriptive rather than perjorative.  The primary focus of the author's criticism is the changes in what men and women perceived to be the role of sex within this framework, and the role that an emerging mass media played in both the cause and effect of such changes.  The Victorian standard that preserved sex within the confines of romantic love was replaced by a view that sex could be detached from love, or in the end, from any emotion at all.<br />If you want to gain an overall frame of reference for the changes in our culture with reference to sexuality, and can stand to have a few myths challenged, then this book is a good starting point.	2004-05-30
US	41846687	RJWKF22MTQOD3	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	5	6	16	N	N	An Excellent Diagnosis of a Culture's Decline	Quoting Irving Kristol, Bork writes near the end of the third chapter, \\"Sector after sector of American life has been ruthlessly corrupted by the liberal ethos. It is an ethos that aims simultaneously at political and social collectivism on the one hand, and moral anarchy on the other.\\" The purpose of Slouching Towards Gomorrah is to outline the causes behind this type of liberalism, the effects of its implementation, and what remedies, if any, are available.<br />Bork proposes that this dual trend toward both radical individualism and radical egalitarianism is causing serious damage to American culture. While they appear to have contradictory ends, they bring about the same effect of eroding the institutions that have been a check against authoritarian government: family, the church, the rule of law, and public standards of morality. With \\"liberty\\" being defined in the Declaration of Independence free of external restraints (something Bork laments as reflecting a flawed assumption of human nature that goes all the way back to 18th century Enlightenment philosophy) and \\"equality\\" being defined closer and closer to the utopianism in the SDS document The Port Huron Statement, Bork gives the reader a grand tour of the effects in most elements of society: entertainment, law, politics, intellectual quality, public decency, etc.<br />As far as these types of books go, this is the gold standard, and as the 2003 afterword highlights, the trend has only continued to continue from what Bork wrote seven years earlier.	2004-05-06
US	41846687	RLEADCMJXI432	0805426981	143779956	The Homosexual Agenda: Exposing the Principal Threat to Religious Freedom Today	Books	4	24	48	N	N	Timely and Comprehensive Report from the Front	Although homosexuality may appear to be a limited subject matter to call it the \\"principal threat to religious freedom\\", as a political fight, this conflict between homosexual rights and traditional values has spilled into nearly every aspect of politics, law, and the culture.  Not only is this a fundamental struggle on the merits of whether homosexual rights should be granted; the tactics used to subvert the legitimate legal process makes this a threat to the procedural integrity of the political process.<br />As members of the leadership of the Alliance Defense Fund, a litigation organization, Sears and Osten have a wealth of material to draw upon to describe the movement.  The chapters of the book offer an orderly tour through the arenas of this conflict, from the entertainment media, the church denominational schisms, the law and the Constitution, academia, and elsewhere.  While the tone of the book is to rally people now, the content is, for the most part, comprehensive enough to use as a reference tool.<br />The authors don't reserve criticism for the (in their view) outrageous events and acts that have taken place in the name of homosexual rights; however, they do take caution to prevent the content from being a personal attack on homosexuals themselves.  The preface explicitly makes this clear, and there are several reminders to the reader to take the attitude of compassion, not scorn, toward individuals with whom they disagree.  (There is a latent assumption that the audience for this book is a religious one, but the material itself stands on its own.  With the exception of a chapter on the debate within churches the material doesn't rest on theological foundations.)<br />An uninitiated reader five years from now might read parts of this book and wonder, for example, what \\"Will and Grace\\" was and why was it so controversial, but this compilation of the battle so far will be of use beyond the immediate context.	2004-04-24
US	41846687	R8FXSLMRO4YCE	0060011831	172888602	The Epidemic: The Rot of American Culture, Absentee and Permissive Parenting, and the Resultant Plague of Joyless, Selfish Children	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Hands-On Guide for Parents	Although the book opens with a discussion of tragedy of the school shooting at Columbine High School, the purpose of The Epidemic is not to pinpoint an immediate or public causes that causes youths like Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold to do what they did, but to highlight their cases as symptomatic - an extreme one, admittedly - of a broad problem of children who grow up oversaturated with stimuli, incapable of emotional development, and uncontrollable at school and at home.  All of these, Shaw says, \\"are signs that our society has become toxic to children\\".<br />On this foundation, Shaw's goal is to give instructions for parents in preventing these problems before they arrive.  This begins as early as infancy, where Shaw encourages the parent to begin a dialogue with the child (at this early stage, the \\"dialogue\\" being nonverbal expressions of affection, such as kisses on the baby's head).  While the message for parents to be involved in the child's life seems to be self-evident, pressures for the parents in the workplace can threaten the development of this bond.  Also, Shaw is very thorough in instructing parents on the *right* way to develop this bond, mixing anecdotal evidence from his practice with broad guidelines and checklists of symptoms to watch out for, so that the time and effort spent with the child won't be in vain.<br />By focusing on the internal family structure rather than the external factors that might threaten it, Shaw's book avoids criticizing many of the outside cultural factors surrounding the Columbine shooting that others have pointed to (whether correctly or not), and thereby makes the book accessible for parents of nearly every political persuasion who are looking for practical childrearing tips.	2004-04-23
US	41846687	R3C8XMRX7WWLRF	0679781609	538287709	Christ: A Crisis in the Life of God	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A Worthy Sequel to a Classic	&quot;In what follows, the text of the New Testament will be considered rather as if it were a stained-glass window.  That is, it will be looked at and appreciated as a work of art, rather than seen through in an attempt to discover the historical events that lie behind it.&quot;  [p.13]<br />To those whose profession is to either inflate or deflate the gospels as a representation of actual history, this literary critique of the gospel account of Jesus' life may appear to be asking all of the wrong questions.  But while the historical scholars duke it out over whether the gospels can be treated as history, the meaning of the gospels, in the broader context of the relationship between God and the Jewish people (and, later by extension, to the rest of the world).  After five centuries since the promise of a restoration of the kingdom was first offered and no hope of it yet being fulfilled, a redefinition of the relationship was in order.<br />The gospels portray a redefinition of this relationship in ways that shocked the conscience of the average Jew.  Not only would God come down in the form of a man (something that hadn't been done since the days of the early patriarchs), he would come not to conquer the world, but to re-enact the Passover, only this time, God would play a completely different role:  the Sacrificial Lamb.  The literary methods highlighted by Miles depict a story in which Jesus reveals only a little at a time, sometimes speaking in parables and other cryptic language, in order to pique the curiosity of his audience so that they can fully appreciate what he said at the right time.<br />As with his earlier book, God:  A Biography, Miles looks at the text without the theological gloss of later religious commentators, and analyzes the text solely for its dramatic and literary value.  Miles expressly makes the point that in the gospels, everything is mentioned for a reason.  For example, Miles points out that the Devil's temptation of Jesus indicates more is implied than just an interaction between the Son of God and his archenemy.   The Devil's questions and tests resemble those that a people who had been waiting a long time for God to restore them would ask.  The post hoc theological worldview and the misplaced emphasis on the need for historical authenticity have dulled this edge of this passage. <br />Miles closes the book with a defense of the literary criticism method of analyzing the gospels, which he admits is the exception rather than the rule in the historical-critical vs. Christian apologetic debate.  While the paucity of helpful archaeological data does little to help solve (or refute) the historical meaning that orthodox Christianity has made the primary focus, Miles' literary method gives us an evenhanded glimpse of what the message in the gospels must have been like to the original audience, which bears much more fruitful meaning, at least to the question of why people would dedicate their lives to Jesus Christ even when they were not relying on a historical record of an actual event.	2004-04-18
US	41846687	R1Z26ALVCVDFFL	1594030421	81897477	Diversity: The Invention of a Concept	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Clear-Headed Diagnosis of a Hot-Button Issue	The thesis of Wood's book can be stated in this way:  With relative cultural unity having been achieved in America with the removal of legal barriers to opportunity for minorities, a more recent movement has arisen that seeks to undermine this unity by introducing a new type of \\"diversity\\".   The former term refers to true diversity between cultures that involves deep and fundamental differences in worldviews that are more often an obstacle to overcome than something to be celebrated.  (One example used by Wood is Herman Melville's extended experience with Typee people in the Marquesan Islands.)  On the other hand, the new diversity (used in italics by the author) turns superficial distinctions into epochal differences (such as having a college roommate with fake Polynesian tattoos) that, according to the diversophiles, must be retained in the culture at all costs.<br />This is more than just a silly exercise in treating cultural fads as meaningful differences.  Wood describes a two-phase process in which this concept of diversity is a means to a specific end.  The first phase (diversity I) stresses hard that people must be defined by a race, even if the minority does not wish to do so, in order to create identifiable \\"groups\\" in society.  The second phase (diversity II) uses the fiction that diversity of race, gender, sexual preference, etc. is equivalent to diversity of worldview.  With this foundation, questions of diversity take on an ominous meaning - when this kind of diversity is emphasized as a policy in the workplace, on campus, or elsewhere, a conflict arises between the interest in selecting the best qualified individual(s) and preserving an overall profile of a workforce or campus population.  And when these superficial race, sex, etc. characteristics of a person are given a preference over actual qualifications to do the job, it brings up the same issues of racism that America had been trying to move away from for so long.<br />An especially helpful passage in Wood's book is his breakdown of the Bakke decision, which upheld the race-preference factor in school admissions process.  Justice Powell's opinion for the court made the \\"diversity\\" principle a major issue, which was unusual considering that no other justice on either side joined him in this portion of the opinion and that little attention was given to this issue during the case itself.<br />The bulk of Wood's book then explains how this principle has been applied in most areas of society - the workplace, campus, the arts, etc.  The book was published in 2003, but came out before the U.S. Supreme Court decision upholding in part the University of Michigan's use of race-based preferences.  However, the book is a valuable resource in describing the problem beyond the immediate political debate.	2004-04-18
US	41846687	R3OB93U49KJPY4	0830827323	733825469	C. S. Lewis's Dangerous Idea: In Defense of the Argument from Reason	Books	4	10	15	N	N	A Limited Scope, But Helpful to its Intended Audience	After opening with a discussion that dispels an apparent urban legend in philosophical circles -- that C.S. Lewis's apologetic foundations were dismantled during an exchange with Elisabeth Anscombe - Reppert states the main thesis he sets out to prove [p.45]:<br />&quot;Does our very thinking provide evidence that theism is true?&quot;<br />&quot;The argument I will be presenting in this book will attempt to answer that question in the affirmative.&quot;<br />From this point, Reppert takes this argument (&quot;the argument from reason&quot;) and runs it against the rival worldview of naturalism (or the view that nature is the end of all things) with this contradiction: in order to affirm that there is nothing transcendent above nature, one must employ transcendent principles.  It gives pure naturalism an unwarranted title of absolute certainty.<br />In order to combat the specific arguments in favor of naturalism, Reppert engages in a thorough exegesis of formal logical arguments , which may not be legible to the layman reader seeking an apostolic tool, but will be of service to philosophy students trying to connect with the avenues of thought that confront their belief system.  Reppert's book provides a reminder of the limits of pure philosophy in addressing the higher questions of life and the existence of a transcendent power.	2004-04-16
US	41846687	R3NFACKJE5AA3G	0060523999	144116777	How Ronald Reagan Changed My Life	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A synthesis that works	Robinson's book is equal parts a memoir from his time in the White House as a young speechwriter for the Reagan administration, a core-sample biography of the 40th president, and Chicken Soup-like advice for the young professional.  By juxtaposing Reagan's work habits in the White House (he was an avid reader and writer, and was very hands-on when it came to his speeches) and bringing up the formative experiences of Reagan's life, you get a portrait - not a comprehensive one, but an indicative one - of a president who was working very hard to make it look very easy.  Drawing a contrast to Martin Sheen's portrayal of a fictional president on television, Robinson highlights the contrast between image and reality:<br />&quot;My mistake lay in assuming that the intensity must reach a peak or climax in the person of the President.  If the people who worked for him were driven and harried, it stood to reason that the President himself must be the most driven and harried of all. &quot;The West Wing&quot; makes the same assumption.  Just look at the way Martin Sheen plays the role of chief executive.  The man's anguished soul searching never lets up.<br />&quot;Yet in the Reagan White House, the intensity didn't peak in the person of the President.  It evaporated...&quot;<br />With the enigma that still seems to surround those who search for the &quot;real Reagan&quot;, a portrait of his life and work put in contrast to the author, an underling in the White House who was at the beginning stages of his professional career, provides a fresh comparison that helps the reader learn about Reagan's better qualities and why they should be emulated.	2004-04-16
US	41846687	R3NV4NOMWDWOY3	1932236236	391246880	The American Way: Family and Community in the Shaping Of American Identity	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A concise history of an important issue	The primary purpose of Carlson's book is to describe the history of the various attempts to formulate American culture through the avenue of federal government policy.  Beginning with Theodore Roosevelt administration, which Carlson points to as the starting point of the this government interest in shaping national culture, the story that unfolds is, at one level, a conflict between those who viewed American society as a collection of families, as a collection of self-autonomous individuals with the same individual rights apart from differences in gender or family situation, or as a homogenous indivisible whole with (for the most part) the same values that shape a distinct national culture.   It's an interesting story not only to view the shift in political parties (one can see through this prism the difference between cultural conservatives and industrial conservatives, along with the difference between the maternalists and the equity feminists.<br />More fundamental than the story of the success or failure of each group's attempt to formulate public policy is the tension of underlying premises that Carlson touches upon as this history is told.   In a liberal democracy that encourages capitalism, what are the boundaries, if any, to the market process?  Does the government have a proper role in encouraging a family policy (such as a \\"family wage\\" for the breadwinner male and limited job opportunities for the mother who, according to the policy purposes, has a duty to be at home to raise the children) that runs counter to the laissez-faire principle, or does that violate the promise of guaranteeing equality for all individuals?  In another vein, should the government (and other sources with the government's encouragement) encourage a national identity that goes as far as, to paraphrase one criticism quoted in the book, that except for two hours on Sunday, Americans should share the same values and culture, or should that be left for individuals and groups to define for themselves?<br />Carlson points out that some of the major programs that exist were based on the opposite premises, such as the Social Security program - a maternalist policy - that has been altered by the entrance of mothers into the workforce.  Carlson reserves his point of view until the very end of the book (the last two pages), and given the promotion by pro-family groups, one can predict what those principles should be.  But even if the reader disagrees with the author's view (which is sort of a neo-maternalist view that recognizes that biological differences between the sexes should be recognized in some instances over abstract equity principles, but that the overt discrimination that denied women equal political and property rights should remain a thing of the past), the book will be informative to describe the history of this aspect of federal government policy.	2004-04-14
US	41846687	R3860VFIEUZBPI	0849913136	607423239	The Sensate Culture	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Decent update on Sorokin's work	The subject matter of the book is familiar:  many books have been written by pundits who have observed a general and long-running decline in Western culture:  an egalitarian mood eschews rewarding or acknowledging excellence; all views in public, whether deserved or not, are given equal standing, while at the same time criticism of such syncretism is denounced as \\"judgmentalism\\"; materialism replaces a vigorous spiritual and moral foundation for the culture, while the idea of a transcendent moral culture is censored from public discussion.  Individual autonomy that is taken to absolute proportions, regardless of the consequences, triumphs over attempts by the government to keep order.  While many of these experts adequately describe the problem, the options on what can be done about it are more limited in range.<br />Brown approaches the problem through a prism that, while it was not of his own invention, nevertheless provides fruitful insight into the current problems.  The paradigm adopted by Brown was created by mid-20th century sociologist Pitrim Sorokin in Crisis of Our Age (which debt Brown expressly acknowledges early in the book), which measures the life of cultures as passing between three stages:  ideational (eyes turned only toward God apart from the earthly realm), idealistic (eyes turned toward the earthly things as expressions of the beauty of God's creation), and the sensate (eyes turned toward the earthly things for only the sensory satisfaction in itself).  The stages do not necessarily evolve (or devolve) in only one direction, which makes the analysis more interesting as a means to grapple with the problems of the sensate culture that Brown posits Western culture is or is close to transforming into.<br />Brown, a theology professor and evangelical, isn't shy about describing the problem in biblical terms, but his goal in this book is broader than simply preaching to the choir.  This transition to address this in secular terms is no small feat, andBrown himself acknowledges that even if some would-be reformers of our culture do not share Christian beliefs, then some other transcendent principle will most likely have to be a guide.  As he writes on page 247:<br />\\"The present analysis will have value for the reader who sees the facts described here and is aware of where they are likely to lead us.  It will have value for one who does not look to God or divine grace only if it can be supplemented by a proposal that does not depend on a specific Christian or other religious commitment.\\"<br />This book was published in 1996, at about the same time as Robert Bork's book Slouching Towards Gomorrah came out, and the two address much of the same deterioration in the pillars of Western culture (law, ethics, religion, individual morality, etc.).  While Bork's work is more weighty in highlighting the problem, Brown's book is more amply provided with ways to find solutions.  The scope of Brown's book is limited due to the dependence on Sorokin, but it's still a good read.	2004-04-03
US	41846687	R2A4FXEDI3S61Y	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	5	60	96	N	N	A clinical examination, not a polemical assault	The introduction and closing chapter discuss the September 11th attacks, which he says provided the impetus for writing this examination of Bill Clinton's presidency.  The scope, however, is widened to a systematic survey of most of the major elements and episodes of Clinton's two terms in the White House.  Was the country better off in the areas of the economy, foreign affairs, etc., when Clinton left office than when he entered, and was it because of anything his administration did?  These are the questions Lowry addresses, in order to find Clinton's legacy beyond the apologia of his supporters.<br />Lowry's job as editor of National Review may raise suspicions to some that this work can't be anything more than partisanship in hardcover.  That's not the case, however, as Lowry is careful to allocate credit or blame to the president and others without the blinders on.  For example, while some Republicans and the press questioned the timing of the August 1998 bombing of al-Qaeda targets as a cynical attempt to drive the Monica Lewinsky scandal off the headlines at a critical point in the investigation, Lowry notes that the real problem with this response to the recent bombings in Kenya and Tanzania was that it wasn't a hard enough response, and that this was one of several examples of his overall hesitancy to fully engage the threat of terrorism abroad.<br />Although the scope of the book is not intended to encompass the totality of 1990s politics, Lowry's book provides a clearinghouse for sorting out the details of many of the 1990s episodes in concise form.  For those of us who were otherwise disposed and have only a vague idea of what Mogadishu, the Tutsis, the Hutus, and the Kosovars were all about, Lowry's descriptions of the conflicts, as part of getting to the core of Clinton's handling of them, are a very helpful tool.  Lowry also sorts out the scandals and alleged scandals into three categories:  the overblown (example:  the Travel Office firings, the FBI &quot;filegate&quot;), the serious but unproven (example:  dirty dealings with Whitewater partner Jim MacDougal), and three serious scandals that deserve attention (the 1996 fundraising from China, the pardon of Marc Rich, and the perjury and obstruction of justice related to the Monica Lewinsky testimony).<br />Lowry sets out his thesis regarding the Clinton legacy in the opening paragraph:  &quot;By his second term, Bill Clinton's presidency had achieved a kind of Seinfeldian self-referentiality.  He was a president devoted to his presidential legacy, whatever that might be.&quot;  The solipsism permeates the rest of the book, leaving at the core of all of these episodes in the Clinton presidency a legacy of searching for something to define his presidency, but continually being unwilling to risk the political capital to accomplish it.  This not only detracts from his claimed successes, but it did severe damage in foreign affairs, as it gave al-Qaeda a growing confidence that they wouldn't have America to reckon with in any serious fashion.  Lowry drives his point home with this assessment of Clinton's legacy in the fight against terrorism [p.301]:  &quot;His ego made him yearn after a great foreign policy crisis to give him a legacy:  his moral shallowness kept him from dealing with one when it arrived.&quot;	2004-02-13
US	41846687	RKLY8LCBTVDXW	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	4	14	21	N	N	A good contemporary resource, plus more	Limbaugh's goal in this book appears to be twofold.  The first is to collect as many of the local stories as possible that highlight the face of the problem.  Because many of these stories are local in nature, it's difficult to put the pieces together to describe an overall trend.  For this reason, Limbaugh's book is helpful as a collection of these stories, put together in systematic organizational form, of how religious expression is being eliminated in public.  But not only is the First Amendment's establishment clause being used as a sword to stifle even the innocous expressions of religion, such as a nativity scene in a public park or a nondenominational prayer at a graduation ceremony -- but the alternative belief system of secularism and \\"diversity\\" is being given preferential treatment in its place.  As Limbaugh tells the local stories in each sphere of public -- primary and secondary education, universities, corporate America, the government, and the media and entertainment, the collection of accounts begins to look less like an anomaly and more like a trend.  The concern of these separatists looks to be less about preserving a particular interpretation of the 1st Amendment and more about instilling a replacement ideology in the place of America's Judeo-Christian tradition.<br />The second purpose helps make Limbaugh's book a worthwhile reference apart from the immediate context of these news stories.  It's one thing to cry foul and say that the Judeo-Christian heritage and history is being unfairly censored; it's another task to express what that heritage is all about.  Limbaugh opens his book with a brief account of America's early history that was entrenched in religion, and ends the book with a pointed series of questions posed to some prominent conservative Christian leaders about America's heritage that was rooted in the Judeo-Christian tradition, and helps put into context the urgency of why the discrimination against it is so damaging, and helps deepen the scope of the book.<br />If you are concerned about the attempt to bleed dry the Judeo-Christian tradition with a thousand paper cuts, and want an introduction into what America's Judeo-Christian heritage is all about, then Limbaugh's book is an excellent resource.	2004-02-12
US	41846687	R2LP15UE99NBBJ	0451207483	735684382	A Documentary History of the United States: (Seventh Revised Edition)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Three-fifths good, two-fifths uneven and spotty.	I'll start with the good:  all of the material up through the end of World War I is superb.  The national vs. state power issues in the emerging republic, as well as the pre-Civil War debate, are both well-represented.  The high point is the pair of essays back to back, one by Theodore Roosevelt and the other by Woodrow Wilson, which describes in detail the nature how excessively concentrated business interests working in collusion were a detriment to the freedom of opportunity, and outlines some progressive proposals to reform the problem.<br />However, the treatment of the history that follows (at least on domestic issues) doesn't give an even-handed nature of the debate.  Rather than reflecting a debate over the nature and degree of government intervention and regulation, the interruptions of and objections to progressivism (no matter how far it was taken) are treated as minor blips on the historical map.  Calvin Coolidge is given scant little mention, the causes that turned the 1929 recession into a depression are not given their sufficient mention, and the New Deal is more glowingly presented than the actual results would indicate.  If any one of these overgeneralizations were left out, it would be at least a little more fair in depicting the 20th century prior to World War II.  But with all three of them together, it paints a picture of a population virtually uninterrupted in its desire for more government intervention, and it cuts off at the root any accurate portrayal of the opposition to the New Deal Revolution and beyond.<br />In particular, when mention is made of the Reagan Presidency, the author includes Mario Cuomo's &quot;Tale of Two Cities Speech&quot;, which was little more than raw meat fed to the delegates at the 1984 Democratic National Convention.  If there had been any mention of this kind of detail of the threat the New Deal was having on the balance of powers between the branches of government and to private enterprise, the tilt of the book would be lessened.<br />There is also the matter of typographical errors, of which there were several.  I wouldn't bring this up were it not for page 339, which tells the reader that the &quot;day of infamy&quot;, the day that the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, was December 1, 1941(!).<br />As a reference, I would recommend the book.  The choices (with the one exception noted above) are fine, and the overall structure of the book lends itself to being able to read one chapter without having to read other material, which makes it handy to thumb through any part and be able to pick out important speeches and materials without having to read the 50 pages preceding or following the material.  As a straightforward depiction of American history, I can only give the book muted praise.	2003-10-11
US	41846687	R38ZPNIWVNXZG5	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Captivating enough to keep one's interest throughout.	Although this book is nearly a thousand pages long, there are only eight defined parts. This is only one way in which a lot of material is structured in a way to make it hold together as one unified work. As the title suggests, the heart of the book is the profile of American individuals, but told only in a quasi-biographical form. Rather than fill every profile with every detail, Johnson picks out the essential details, with a goal toward letting the reader get to know these individuals as people first, and historical figures second. In that sense, it takes some of the shine off of the icons of American history and makes them more real. For instance, the achievements of James Madison the revolutionary are well-known to most students of history; his folly as president doesn't get as much attention. Yet Johnson tells this side of Madison's career as well, with unflinching detail.<br />Johnson does a great job of relating these lives to the backdrop of the broader context that affected their lives. For instance, in describing the founding of each colony, Johnson's view that even at the very beginning, the nature and development of the northern and southern colonies were set up for the conflict leading to the Civil War. By highlighting this aspect, it helps set up the reader for a conflict that gets mentioned again 300 pages later.<br />Other literary devices are used as well. In describing the experience women and families had during the Revolutionary War, a striking anecdote is told about Elizabeth Jackson's children/soldiers who suffered at the hands of the British. It is mentioned without any special attention that the youngest (and who would lose his entire family) was named Andrew. In effect, this passage (p.174-75) serves a dual purpose, one in the immediate context, and also as foreshadowing for a hundred pages later when Andrew Jackson emerges onto the national scene.<br />Every once in a while, Johnson steps into the role of historical myth-debunker, whetherit be to correct blatant and untrue attacks on Warren G. Harding, to put Richard Nixon's political career in context with the East Coast media's hostility, or the behind-the-scenes work it took to create the image of John F. Kennedy, and the same media's complicity in allowing it to happen, all the way into his presidency.<br />The book concludes in 1997, so obviously there has been a lot of major events that have happened in America over the relatively short time since then. But the book is still a very enjoyable read, even if the low-key ending can now only be seen as a prelude.	2003-10-11
US	41846687	REKCNALHF9901	0060928832	664906388	From Dawn to Decadence: 1500 to the Present: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life	Books	5	2	3	N	N	As good as advertised.	For a subject matter as broad as this -- a 500-year story of Western Culture that includes descriptions and critiques of just about every field of art and science -- a very good work could have been produced in three volumes that would have intimidated even the most enthusiastic reader into submission. One of the many feats Barzun has done in this book is to compress this subject matter into 800 pages, and a very readable and unified 800 pages at that. (The devices he uses are described in the short &quot;Author's Note&quot;.) If you want a one-stop source to gain a foundation in learning about the Western world, you can't go wrong with this book.<br />Not many professional historians could pull this kind of book off. Because it is the narrative of one person and not an encyclopedic description of every phenomenon, a level of trust is necessary due to the author's selectivity. (And Barzun does highlight some figures whom he says that the majority of historians have not given the proper attention.) But Barzun's explicitness of this fact at the beginning of the book, as well as the respect he has been given by his peers, it's a safe bet to trust his sincerity, even if you might not agree with his assessment on this or that point.<br />Although this is a story of &quot;isms&quot; more than about the individuals who brought them to life, Barzun does a good job of mixing the format in which the stories are told. A few chapters are told from the perspective of a city in a certain era (Chicago in 1895, for example). Some portions are told in the form of biographies of particular individuals. In other sections, Barzun surveys the various fields (literature, poetry, music, techne, etc.) to describe their progress. The reading doesn't get monotonous from any overused pattern. But what's especially helpful is that Barzun highlights a few special &quot;isms&quot; that occur and recur throughout the book (and in the spirit of avoiding overexplanation, uses capital letters to stick it out from the text). It sets out meta-themes that help the reader better appreciate some unified explanation running throughout the book.<br />As far as the alluring title goes, Barzun explains early on that the term &quot;decadence&quot; implies less a moral failing and more of a cultural falling off -- meaning that artistic and cultural development and innovation has wound its course, and the &quot;isms&quot; of an earlier time no longer have the broad appeal that they did in their prime. With nothing new arising to captivate the Western mind in such a way, the cultural unity of the West has been and will continue to split off into something different.<br />I'd recommend this book for both the general fan of history, as well as for any college student pursuing a Bachelor of Arts degree. While it won't tell you everything you need to know, this book should help put some of the primary reading material in its broader context, even if you may not be as resigned as Barzun to write the eulogy for the West.	2003-09-06
US	41846687	R2RSZIHHZWEI55	1564781313	401276288	Point Counter Point (British Literature)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Not a masterpiece, but still worth a read.	The book has its quirks that make it more difficult to read now than it might have been in 1928. The proportion of dialogue to plot movement makes the book's structure look like an extended parlor discussion with only a few events that \\"happen to them\\" in between. The book is also stuffed to the limit with exposition on the nearly dozen main characters, each of whose primary flaw is both explained in narrative and demonstrated not in action, but in dialogue. Third, the details of 1920s British politics and the scholarly dialogue make some parts difficult to follow, to the point of obscurity.<br />However, these flaws do not outweigh the sparkling portions of the book. If Huxley's dissection of the modern soul weren't so witheringly accurate and complete, this book might not have made mention outside its immediate time and place. Although this is from late in the book (Chapter 36), this passage (a journal entry in Philip Quarles' notebook) gives the summary statement of the problem:<br />\\"It's incomparably easier to know a lot, say, about the history of art and to have profound ideas about metaphysics and sociology than to know personally and intuitively a lot about one's fellows, one's wife and children. Living's much more difficult than Sanskrit or chemistry or economics. The intellectual life is child's play; which is why intellectuals tend to become children -- and then imbeciles and finally, as the political and industrial history of the last few centuries clearly demonstrates, homicidal lunatics and wild beasts. The repressed functions don't die; they deteriorate, they fester, they revert to primitiveness. But meanwhile it's much easier to be an intellectual child or lunatic or beast than a harmonious adult man.\\"<br />Huxley demonstrates this general principle in his characters, all of whom are intellectuals of the moment and are engaged in fields of painting, writing, biology, politics, religion, and seduction, and all of whom share neither the solution to the unhappiness of their predicament, or the moral strength to overcome their weaknesses. This is a morality play, but not of the traditional kind. Here, the tempter is not a horned figure with a pitchfork. Rather, it is a consequence of the modern world: the balkanization of the fields of knowledge and the allure of \\"whoring after abstractions\\" at the expense of arresting the development of real human qualities. To this extent, I don't believe this problem has been solved even with the transition forward from the modern world into a post-modern one, and the character studies still largely ring true today.<br />That's not to say that today's moralists would agree to Huxley's solution to this problem. Rampion, the least flawed character in the book, says this as a rebuke to the religious ascetics and to the sexual and intellectual fetishists alike: \\"[I]t's a damned sight better to behave like a beast -- a real, genuine, undomesticated animal, I mean -- than to invent a devil and then behave like one's invention.\\" Judging by how Huxley spent his life thereafter, it appears that this was his own view as well.unhappiness of their predicament, or the moral strength to overcome their weaknesses. This is a morality play, but not of the traditional kind. Here, the tempter is not a horned figure with a pitchfork. Rather, it is a consequence of the modern world: the balkanization of the fields of knowledge and the allure of \\"whoring after abstractions\\" at the expense of arresting the development of real human qualities. To this extent, I don't believe this problem has been solved even with the transition forward from the modern world into a post-modern one, and the character studies still largely ring true today.<br />That's not to say that today's moralists would agree to Huxley's solution to this problem. Rampion, the least flawed character in the book, says this as a rebuke to the religious ascetics and to the sexual and intellectual fetishists alike: \\"[I]t's a damned sight better to behave like a beast -- a real, genuine, undomesticated animal, I mean -- than to invent a devil and then behave like one's invention.\\" Judging by how Huxley spent his life thereafter, it appears that this was his own view as well.	2003-08-16
US	41846687	R2VBBWIST5HO5U	0393960560	317359935	001: The American Constitution: Its Origins and Development (Seventh Edition)  (Vol. 1) (American Constitution, Its Origins & Development)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A history of constitutional law	Unlike constitutional law classes, which teach you how to litigate the present, this book (or more accurately, these two volumes -- vol 2 isn't up at the moment) is a good complement to what is taught as constitutional law in law school.  But a law school education isn't necessary to appreciate these books; they provide a context that can be appreciated by themselves.<br />The first volume (the red one) covers the history of constitutions from the earliest colonial covenants up to the Civil War.  The second volume (the blue one) covers the Reconstruction (including the Johnson impeachment and the 1876 presidential controversy) up through the Iran-Contra and up until the early 90s (at least in my volume).<br />The tone of the works treats the Constitution as almost like a new world colony, upon which one or another group stakes its flag on a certain clause therein, and then chronicling the history of such claims over time.  The constitutional right to own slaves came and went.  The economic due process decisions came and went.  The New Deal excesses came and went.  The Warren Court changes have come, and many of them have now gone.  <br />The constitution is not left unchanged, but it is not changed as much as the ideologues in each of those eras would have liked.  As long as we can hope that there is something in the constitution that we can hope will outlast the public demand of the moment, the better the chances are that the republic will survive.	2003-05-23
US	41846687	R37AEP1P2RYH5P	0140443339	167010526	The Oresteia: Agamemnon; The Libation Bearers; The Eumenides	Books	4	6	9	N	N	"The house breathes with murder"	This book consists of three major parts -- first, the long essay, \\"The Serpent and the Eagle\\", which is a very good narrative of what is going on for those who are not immediately familiar with the work (like me).  Those who have extensive experience in studying this trilogy might find this unnecessary, but it is helpful to the lay reader trying to connect with vague high school or college recollections of this play.<br />The second part is the trilogy itself, and it still doesn't lose any potency.  If Fagles' thesis is to be believed, then the play is a meticulous journey from savagery and blood-feud into civic identity and suppression of the personal vendettas, leading to the ascendency of Athens after the war with the Persians.  <br />Aeschylus lived from 525 to 456 B.C., so that would put him in the pre-Socratic period and prior to the period of Athens' decline, so this civic victory over the furies that governed the blood-feud might be dimiinished by subsequent events.  However, as a theatrical device to bring the vendetta (which, as the end of \\"Agamemnon\\" details, started a generation prior to the play with a grotesque feast of children) to its ultimate dilemma -- Clytemnestra avenging her daughter's death on the battlefield by killing the perpetrator, her husband -- Orestes having to avenge his father's death by killing his mother -- and the trial among the gods that resulted -- isn't any less relevant as a curb to seeking the most savage retribution at the expense of possibly a higher justice.<br />The last part of Fagles' version is a line-by-line commentary that helps explain certain translated phrases.  All in all, for both the layman and the expert, there are parts of this book worth keeping on the library shelf.	2003-05-23
US	41846687	R3CDGQN57B5TVA	0226264211	218317724	Capitalism and Freedom: Fortieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good starting place for conservative economic theory.	\\"Capitalism and Freedom\\", the 2002 version, contains a brief preface for the 2002 edition, as well as the preface to the 1982 edition.  On the subject of whether he would revise anything to his original work, Friedman said, with one exception, that he wouldn't.  There's good reason for that.<br />The book is written for a generalist audience (like me), and pulls back from the nuts and bolts of economic theory in order to provide a broad scope that makes sense in plain English.  With broad subject matter such as \\"The Control of Money\\", \\"Fiscal Policy\\", and \\"The Role of Government in Education\\", all of which average around 20 pages each in a 200 page book, the reader will not be in danger of getting bogged down in esoteric details.<br />Some of the subject matter that Friedman speaks of in the present tense is only relevant in historical terms (such as the segment on the gold standard for monetary policy).  Other chapters speak directly to current issues (such as his chapter on the virtues of school vouchers, or the chapter on social welfare measures).  <br />Because the book was written in the pre-Civil Rights Act era and makes no apologies for the least amount of government restraint on economic relationships, the book provides an insightful glimpse of what free-market conservatives believed before the political paradigm shift.  Friedman takes the proper care to say he does not favor racial discrimination, but he also makes it clear that government intervention into such economic relationships doesn't necessarily make things better.<br />Friedman contributes a lot on the subject of monopolies, whether they be technical monopolies, private monopolies, or government monopolies, and which of them would be the least damaging under the circumstances.  In the same vein as Adam Smith's talk of the danger of private collusion, the danger of a private monopoly holding together is much less probable than a government monopoly or a technical monopoly.<br />All in all, for someone looking for a primer on conservative economics, this relatively inexpensive book is a safe bet.	2003-04-24
US	41846687	R2OOEFDAIA3FR5	1568362919	788557502	In Our Own Words: Extraordinary Speeches of the American Century	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A good compilation, if you ignore the italics.	I bought this book because of an interest in analyzing the form and structure of oratory speech, and on that level, the book delivers rather well.  However, the editorial comment that is supposed to provide the \\"objective\\" context in which these speeches were delivered, deteriorates rather badly as the last decade of the century is covered.<br />For example, in the Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill controversy, an speech is excerpted from both parties.  There's nothing wrong with that, but in the author's/editor's commentary to set up the speech, Hill's speech is given the description \\"equally as compelling\\".  Which again, I say is fine, if they wanted to go that route to highlight both sides with similar force.<br />But then cut to a later pair of passages, first with Sarah Brady (emphasized as \\"Registered Republican\\") speaking at the 1996 Democratic National Convention about handgun control, and then excerpting a speech from Charlton Heston on behalf of the NRA (\\"Although many Americans consider the organization's positions extreme\\" -- p. 427) opposing the measure.<br />I'm not familiar with the immediate politics of the earlier periods to say what kind of bias, if any, is reflected by the editorial comments in this account of history, but there's a level of trust between author/editor and reader that, if breached, can justify the reader in dismissing wholesale the commentary for lack of integrity rather than an innocent bias.  Perhaps if this book had been completed a year or two later than it was (1999), the perspective of recent history may have been a little different.<br />But for the speeches themselves, I can't complain.  It's a decent resource not only for its substance, but also for a guide to drafting good oratory.	2002-11-27
US	41846687	R19VUZ3Q6BYBWN	0787902667	683412107	Cults in Our Midst	Books	4	61	64	N	N	Excellent overview.	The outline of the book is straightforward:  Part one identifies what a cult is. Ms. Singer takes care to emphasize that the term \\"cult\\" is a netural one.<br />Part two details the methods used by these cults.  And it is in this area that the distinction between legitimate groups are distinguished from manipulative groups whose ultimate goal is to serve the will of the cult leader without criticism, rather than a beneficial goal beyond the personal service of the cult leadership.<br />A true self-help group, like Alcoholics Anonymous or a local church, will allow for the possibility that the convert might leave, and will not view it as a threat to the organization.  As detailed by the anecdotal evidence in the book, the lengths to which the (malignant) cult leadership will stifle internal dissent and outside criticism, demonstrates the moral and intellectual bankruptcy of these cults and their inherent distrust of an individual's self-determination.  This, I can tell you, is *not* what goes on in your normal neighborhood church.<br />The final part is instructive as it is heartbreaking, as it emphasizes the loss of children's life, and on how to get people out of the cult.  As Singer's anecdotal stories about ex-cult members compound upon the reader, the proper reaction to these types of groups should be growing contempt, as many of the members seem unable to formulate any mental or spiritual foundation after having been manipulated so perversely.	2002-11-10
US	41846687	R3FM2XLNFLZC5Z	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	3	5	11	N	N	&quot;The Biggest Story in History&quot;?  Therein lies the problem.	The book doesn't have footnotes, but only a few references for further reading at the end of each chapter.  The prose of each chapter is intentionally formulaic: 1) an anectdote from Strobel's professional career that pertains to the topic; 2) an interview and cross examination with the scholar; and 3) a personal question or two about how the scholar's research has affected his personal relationship with Jesus Christ.  All of this should provide ample evidence that this book was intended for the Sunday School lesson, not for the critics.  And while I understand the need for Strobel to make the flow of the book more organic, the unnecessary asides sometimes look to be self-serving and annoying.<br />The layout of the chapters is systematic (e.g., &quot;The Eyewitness Evidence&quot;, &quot;The Psychological Evidence&quot;, etc.).  Like in Josh McDowell's &quot;Evidence That Demands a Verdict&quot;, after the first few chapters that discuss the reliability of the New Testament text and judge it absolutely reliable, the text and circumstantial evidence surrounding it are used as unquestioned raw data for such exercises as doing a psychological profile of Jesus and the early followers.  Critics will understandably cringe.<br />And while the tone throughout is genial, there's something more sinister that underlies the premise behind the book.  If the primary selling point of this faith is that it is historical fact while the other faiths are not, as these scholars have suggested, a question of fundamental fairness still remains.  Are we supposed to accept that the ultimate question of divine justice between the sinner and saint is not a humble heart or selfless nature, but a question of, &quot;Do you know this person and accept him as your personal savior?&quot;  The answer to this, as provided by another intellectual wing of the faith, is that no one has a humble heart or selfless nature on their own, but must impute such attributes by allowing Christ to work within them, which comes after accepting Jesus Christ as their personal savior, which itself comes from accepting that Jesus was God come down to earth, etc., etc.  And from there, the problems with basing a religion on an accident of history get further divorced from the reality of the human condition.  I don't need a PhD in anything to figure that out.	2002-08-17
US	41846687	R11RVLJNWGJXLZ	0674517768	848991400	Law and Revolution: The Formation of the Western Legal Tradition	Books	4	65	68	N	N	Two books in one	At its core, the thesis of the book is this:  that the origins of the western legal tradition can be traced to a &quot;Papal Revolution&quot; in the 11th and 12th centuries.  The Papal Revolution, in essence, was an effort by scholars like Peter Abelard, Gratian, and Bracton, who applied an ancient Greek method of abstraction and analysis to the remnants of Roman law dating back to Justinian five or six centuries earlier.  The Greek philosophers never gave much regard to the laws of their city-states, and the Romans wilfully avoided applying any level of abstraction to their laws, so when the 11th and 12th century scholars applied the Greek analytical method to the Roman law, something truly unique was born.<br />But that's only the beginning.  Berman goes to great lengths to show that the &quot;Papal Revolution&quot;, though it may not have taken place as abruptly as the other later revolutions in the western world, was no less an epochal event.  The first half of the book traces how the canon law and papal power first separated itself from the secular law of the territorial kingdoms, and then asserted its own kind of jurisdiction.  Although the level of detail sometimes distracts from Berman's main point, the organization of the chapters in Part I are careful to build up the story of how the need to gloss the old Roman texts led to a &quot;science of law&quot; in itself, and then to competing jurisdictions between emperor and pope, and how the development of the law led to the resolution of these conflicts.  Part I ends with a short chapter on the personal conflict between King Henry II of England and Thomas Becket, Archbishop of Canterbury, which Berman proposes is the personification of the competing interests of the papacy and the secular authority.<br />Part II takes a different organizational approach in describing how the secular law developed at the same time.  Rather than a chronological buildup, part II is a subject-matter survey of the different clustersof secular authority, and the body of law that bound them together.  (For example, urban law of certain cities that got franchised to other towns and cities, mercantile law that was largely self-governed by the merchants, royal law that up until then had not developed in itself.)  <br />Law students and lawyers will recognize some of the terminology that gets introduced as a part of the discussion, and it can provide some greater perspective on where and why these western legal concepts came from.  But also, as emphasized in the introduction and conclusion, Berman proposes that the western tradition he describes is in a state of crisis.  This book was published in 1984, at a time before Marxism's decline as living academic thought.  In this light, the worries that legal history might be wrongfully described in only economic terms, or in terms of other historical &quot;forces&quot;, may not be as pronounced.  However, another concern -- that the western legal tradition is losing its structural integrity, or that the law is less and less founded upon a coherent foundation of reason -- still has relevance today.  In that sense, the book is worth reading both for historical and for present-day purposes.	2002-08-06
US	41846687	RVJBEYJ5UPB95	0679722327	541403885	Adam, Eve, and the Serpent: Sex and Politics in Early Christianity	Books	4	23	26	N	N	One passage, hundreds of interpretations.	Pagels sets out the focus of her book on page 9:<br />\\"This book will explore the attitudes that Jesus and his followers took toward marriage, family, procreation, and celibacy, and thus toward \\"human nature\\" in general, and the controversies these attitudes sparked as they were variously interpreted among Christians for generations -- or for millenia, depending on how one counts.\\"<br />Pagels' book assumes some primary knowledge of early Church history, as Pagels' primary focus is on the different uses of the early chapters of Genesis in reference to the political and theological challenges of the first five centuries of Christianity.  Although the six chapters loosely follow the chronology, the focus of the content in each chapter is topical, rather than historical.  It's a little difficult at first to read the chapters together into a whole, but the themes that emerge in the early chapters do build upon one another, up to the sixth chapter in which the interpretation of the creation and fall is discussed the most.  Some of these themes are the following:<br />1. Is it better to be celibate or to have a family?  Even as far back as the New Testament, the question isn't 100% clear.  According to Luke (as Pagels reads it), Jesus' admonition against divorce is absolute, and the \\"marrying and giving in marriage\\" is a sign of commitment to the affairs of this world instead of the coming Kingdom of God.  In both instances, passages from Genesis (chapters 1 and 6) are applied to make the point.  However, Matthew's use of Luke's material here adds some qualifiers to the prohibition of divorce.  On a similar note, the differences can't be ignored between Paul's celibacy and lukewarm approval for marriage in I Corinthians and \\"Paul's\\" outright advocacy of marriage and family in I Timothy. <br />2. What exactly is \\"liberty\\"?  The Christians, when they were treated as second-class citizens under Roman rule, argued for the right not to worship the imperial gods, which many thought were real demons who were the impure product of the \\"sons of God\\" and \\"daughters of men\\" in the pre-flood times (Genesis chapter 6).  The Roman idea of liberty was living under a good emperor, and that the criticism of their practices amounted to a form of treason.  In support of this, the idea that all men were created by God \\"in his image\\" proved appealing to those in the underclass who suffered in the empire.  But when Christianity became the religion of the empire, questions of religious liberty were asked in a completely different context.<br />3. Is the path to God, or a more intimate relationship with him, achievable through human effort?  The gnostics thought so -- they took interpretations of Genesis to extraordinary lengths, some holding that mankind was governed by preexisting forces that were beyond their free will, and that it was the reintegration of the good forces within us through knowledge that made Christians complete.  The ascetics also thought human effort brought them closer to God, by rejecting both sexualty and the comforts of the world.  Oddly enough, the way that each of these movements were criticized went in two different directions.  In repudiating the gnostics, the church fathers argued that Christianity was not about finding a cosmic ebb and flow and the acceptance of suffering, but about a moral freedom to choose a moral life.  Two centuries later, the muscular efforts of the ascetic life were made dim by the emergence of Augustine's pessimism about human nature, i.e., that no effort was sufficient to escape our defective natures.<br />At the end of the formation process, with all of these elements in the mix, we end up with a view of humanity that to the outsider would appear to be the worst of all options:  the original sin is perpetuated by the childbirth process, nature itself is defective (with disease and stillbirth cited as evidence), no one can remove the stain of the original sin -- not even converted believers.  Pagelsexplains that this view of mankind, and of the fall, was not only well-suited to a centralized church authority, it also provided the individual with an explanation of why bad things happen in the world.<br />Whether intentional or not, a good deal of the book is framed in reference to how Christian orthodoxy has been formed in reaction to a crisis -- the Jewish society, the Roman empire, the gnostic subversiveness, and the Pelagian opposition to centralized church rule.  While it may seem that the Catholic Church has been the same for at least 1600 years, Pagels' book provides a partial glimpse of how much in flux the first 400 years were in shaping orthodoxy.	2002-05-09
US	41846687	R2WW7WE9E9N4KT	0890899940	908595435	Plain English for Lawyers	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Not just for lawyers and law school students	This book was part of my first-year curricula in law school, but this book is valuable for anyone who paid attention in high school composition, and who is looking for a reader-friendly guide to improve their skills in edited English.  The hook for the title comes from the fact that the legal profession is one of the more notorious for having cluttered syntax, archaic terminology, and unnecessary abstractions.  <br />Clear writing begins with clear thinking, and the reader-friendly rules in this book will help sort out the writing quirks that sometimes pop up when a writer isn't as confident in what he/she is trying to say.	2002-04-03
US	41846687	R11DVBFW41ZH4N	0679737294	869821767	The Rolling Stone Album Guide: Completely New Reviews: Every Essential Album, Every Essential Artist	Books	3	8	13	N	N	An unintentional landmark of a place in time.	I have to dock it a star just because this edition is now ten years old.  With encyclopedic material like this, if it's not updated at least annually, the immediate value of the work depreciates each year in which there's no new information.<br />That having been said, this guide decently represents the state of the music world at the end of 1991.  Nirvana's &quot;Nevermind&quot; and Pearl Jam's &quot;Ten&quot; both make the anthology; Stone Temple Pilots' debut does not, if that helps fix a place in time.  Although these grunge heavyweights make the collection, there's no hint of the impact these groups would later have.  Consider, for example, this excerpt from the review of Motley Crue's last album to make the collection:<br />&quot;And though 'Decade of Decadence' spends most of its time summing up past strengths (with some re-recording), tracks like 'Rock 'n' Roll Junkie' and the spiritedly profane cover of 'Anarchy in the U.K.' suggest that the Crue will only continue to improve.&quot;<br />This isn't meant as a slam on the Crue; the point is that there is no hint that 80s metal megastars like Motley Crue and Def Leppard are about to be overshadowed by another rock movement.<br />Although I'd be foolish to consider myself an expert in the genre, similar statements could be said about the state of rap music prior to the &quot;gangsta rap&quot; phenomenon.<br />Two other developments at this time were a) the breakup of some seminal indie groups of the 80s, and b) the move to remaster and reissue albums from artists from the early rock and roll movement.  With respect to the former, groups such as Husker Du, the Replacements, and Camper Van Beethoven end up having their entire collection of albums reviewed.  And blues and rock pioneers such as Robert Johnson and Buddy Holly, who until just a few years before had not had their songs properly catalogued, get their proper mention.<br />I'm not saying that this will be good reading for folks whose musical history begins after 1991.  And heck, this isn't even an open endorsement of the Rolling Stone magazine, which I think has cheapened itself in the late 90s pop revolution.  But if anyone wants a glimpse of how certain artists were treated prior to the grunge revolution and the VH1 career makeover, this will be at least an interesting, albeit not up-to-date, assessment.	2002-02-17
US	41846687	R2FD0QBKVBLEL5	0060630353	192773485	Who Wrote the Bible?	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Torah you know has been cut and pasted together	...or so says Richard Eliot Friedman.  This is hardly news to the Biblical criticism school, but Friedman's book is one of the most concise and reader-friendly accounts of how the Old Testament of the Bible appear as they appear.<br />To follow along, some familiarity with the text of the Bible, at least up through the books of I and II Kings and I and II Chronicles will likely be necessary.  But after just one careful reading of the Bible through that point, this book should be a great reference to compare the texts that gave rise to the suspicion that certain passages of the Bible were recreated for various purposes.  For example, the story of the Golden Calf is stated twice -- once in Exodus, and then again in Deuteronomy.  Friedman's analysis of the textual nuances for each are the most fascinating aspect of the book.<br />The bulk of Friedman's analysis involves an analysis of the underlying cultural factors, first in the unified kingdom under David and Solomon, then as the northern and southern kingdoms split, and then as the prophets arose in the midst of first the fall of the Northern kingdom in Israel to Assyria, and then the Southern kingdom a hundred and forty years later.<br />The only drawback I might have is that instead of providing endnotes or footnotes to correlate to the text, there is only a selected bibliography.  That might make it a little harder to trace a pertinent point to another source, but that's only a small consideration.<br />In short, Friedman manages to stay relatively safely within the confines of the scholarly research, and gives an added life to the human elements behind why someone would write such profound text and attribute it to a higher power.	2001-12-08
US	41846687	R33B2FUFXL9KVG	0156013150	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Struggle to Define Christianity during the Last Days of Rome	Books	4	242	256	N	N	The gritty story behind the rare air of theology	Let me start out with this caveat:  for those Christians or other readers who aren't familiar with this whole area of Church history, a little bit of background reading on the Arian controversy might be necessary to be able to follow the names in this conflict.  Not a great deal, but just maybe an article from an encyclopedia of religion regarding the Arian controversy.<br />With that in mind, this book is a very engaging account of the proto-Machieavellian tactics that took place (and the outside events that inadvertently played their part) in forging what most Christians accept uncritically as gospel truth.  Richard Rubenstein is not a theologian, but a professor of conflict resolution specializing in religous disputes.  Rather than hamper his qualifications, this background is ideal for studying the conflict between the Arians, who believed that Jesus was a great man who was adopted by God the Father, and the anti-Arians led by Athanasius, who believed that God the Son (Jesus) preceded all of creation.  While this may seem like a rarefied topic of discussion today, 1700 years ago in North Africa and the Near East, it was as hot a topic as any political or religious dispute today.<br />The style of the book, once you are familiiarized with the people involved, is very easy to read.  The prose of the book almost reads like an extended magazine article.  I mean that as a compliment.  Rubenstein depicts many episodes, both ridiculous and tragic, which bring an otherwise dry topic to life.  For those who haven't examined their church history, this book should be an eye-opener; the ideological victory claimed by the trinitarians didn't come through ideological means at all.<br />Some theologians and apologists today may talk about the Arian debate as if Arius was a minor rogue, and as if Athanasius on the other side was a hero, and then leave the story at that.  This book manages to tell the story without those blinders.  For that alone, it's worth the price.	2001-12-02
US	41846687	R3HZ5WEXCWHE5E	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Comprehensive in detail and hits the bull's eye.	In my version of this book, this quote closes out the first chapter:<br />\\"Among the advanced races, the decline and ultimately the collapse of the religious impulse would leave a huge vacuum. The history of modern times is in great part the history of how that vacuum had been filled. Nietszche rightly perceived that the most likely candidate would be what he called the 'Will to Power', which offered a far more comprehensive and in the end more plausible explanation of human behavior than either Marx or Freud. In place of religious belief, there would be secular ideology. Those who had once filled the ranks of the totalitarian clergy would become totalitarian politicians. And, above all, the Will to Power would produce a new kind fo messiah, uninhibited by any religious sanctions whatever, and with unappeasable appetite for controlling mankind. The end of the old order, with an unguided world adrift in a relativistic universe, was a summons to such gangster-statesmen to emerge. They were not slow to make their appearance.\\" [p.48]<br />And from there, Johnson proceeds to sketch his outlines of the would-be political messiahs, first in the Soviet Union, then Italy, Japan, and Germany, leading to World War II and then to its sorry sequels in post-colonial Africa, the Indian subcontinent, and beyond (the \\"Bandung generation\\", as he calls it). The book is very comprehensive in detail, both to show the completeness with which these leaders were able to silence dissent with violence, and were led by their own hubris to over-extend their empires beyond their capabilities.<br />But the book is more than just a geopolicial analysis of the world during this time. In between the conventional thumbnail sketches of history, literature, or pop culture in any period is a look at those ideas that may have passed for A-grade intellectual thought at the time, but have not survived the period. Johnson talks about these ideas, and the popular works at the time which appeared to confirmthem, in order to get a glimpse of how the general population viewed their world, and how it affected their willingness to acquiesce to leaders who turned into the megalomaniacs we know and loathe.<br />Some may find Johnson's pro-Catholic view too much of a slant to view this book without a grain of salt. However, at least in Europe, the Church, along with the rule of law, were two circuit-breakers to autocratic rule that were discarded in the darkest days leading up to World War II. And as Johnson asserts, this left a vacuum to be filled, and was done so with an experiment of ideologies that left much to be desired as far as promoting a healthy economy and population. The leaders of the post-colonial \\"Third World\\" (a term that originally conveyed the idea that these countries would bring about a new international morality) only followed the same plan, and often led to the same brutal results.<br />There are several other philosophical, historical, and economic ideas that Johnson sets forth in his 750+ pages in contributing to the overall dour condition of the world during the 20th century. If this seems overwhelming, it's not too much of a simplification to suggest that this book is longhand for what Orwell was describing in his best works.	2001-11-23
US	41846687	R3RV5Y1JMJNEDX	0684843374	512456507	The Tempting of America	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A primer on conservative jurisprudence	It's become easy to throw stones at the idea that judges should stick to the original intent of the Constitution and not legislate from the bench. Because in recent years, judicial activism has leaned toward the political left, criticism of such judicial activism is often dismissed as a right-wing crusade to impose a conservative political viewpoint on the rest of the society.<br />However, the temptation of reading new rights into the original text of the constitution becomes more thorny when, as Bork points out, that judicial activism hasn't always rested in favor of reading new individual liberties into the constitution.  In fact, the Dred Scott decision in 1857 was an attempt to read into the constitution a right to own slaves.  The only difference between that holding and with other attempts to create new rights from the bench (such as the right to &quot;privacy&quot; established in Griswold v. Connecticut in 1964) is the political viewpoints of the men in black robes.  The method to come to each conclusion is the same -- replace the intent of the framers with the moral philosophy of the judge writing the decision.<br />This is the central focus of the book. Bork is not unmindful of the problems with laws which are dumb and/or shocking to the conscience. In discussing the Supreme Court's decision in Skinner v. Oklahoma, in which the court stuck down a law mandating sterilization for recidivist offenders, Bork notes this dilemma [p.62]:<br />&quot;The problem in analyzing the case . . . is that the statute strikes the modern sensibility as savage. There is a natural tendency to want to strike it down. But the Constitution is a legal document, one different in texture from almost all others, but still a legal document and not an expression of a mood or a general injunction to be 'civilized'. To nullify the Oklahoma legislature's policy on the grounds that it shocks the judge is to embed in the Constitution the judge's notions of public policy, which . . . is entirely improper.&quot;<br />The problem with result-oriented jurisprudence, as Bork makes his case throughout, is that it makes it more tempting to manipulate meanings and use varying levels of abstraction from the text to make the Constitution say anything the judge desires it to say.<br />The second portion of the book addresses various theories of reading constitutional law, both expounding on his own, addressing critiques of his own, and critiquing other theories. While this sounds foreboding, it's not a treatise, but rather a representative sample.<br />The third and final portion of the book might be the most prophetic, because it gives his side of what happened during his nomination and failed confirmation proceedings. While the answers to the false charges by the people Sen. Alan Simpson called at the time &quot;bug-eyed zealots&quot; might not seem to mean as much in its specific context, we would come to see such charges and underhanded politics repeated in future judicial and political nomination processes, from Clarence Thomas to John Ashcroft. For that purpose alone, as a blueprint for understanding how certain interest groups will operate to manufacture an unfounded groundswell against a conservative, the book is insightful.	2001-11-10
US	41846687	RSEE0KZ4THBLJ	038517327X	988166438	Death of the Soul	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Neat little book!	At first glance, it seems like science fiction:  can human programmers create a computer that could exceed human capacity to think?  But as the question is presented in this book, the question is not a matter of how far computer technology will go, but is a matter of how tenuously human consciousness has held up in comparison, after the wake of a scientific revolution dating back to the 17th century.  Beginning with Descartes and ending with early 20th century logical positivism, Barrett outlines the development of the major philosophers and their theories of mind.<br />In an era where scientific materialism reigned and we began discovering (even before Einstein) that there was little reason to believe in an absolute fixity in the cosmos, the idealism and metaphysics of the ancient philsophers melted away.  Once we were wrenched from the belief that the idea of good can be deducted from nature, it became more and more difficult to put together a theory of how the mind organizes the sense data (if we can at all) and, more importantly, come to any conclusion about what we can say about our conscious self.  If, as David Hume would suggest, we can't be certain of consistent sense data from one moment of perception to the next, how are we to say anything about the capacity for us to put back together &quot;the dissipating self&quot;?<br />While it may require a little bit of familiarity with the philosophers, Barrett's conversational style of prose and precise focus keep the reader from getting lost.  Although the book came out in the mid-80s, the expansion in computer technology since then has only heightened the question of how intelligent we can program a machine, and how stunted our growth may be in comparison, in finding the conscious &quot;glue&quot; to put together an integrated sense of self-identity.	2001-10-31
US	41846687	RBIGN9EQ4S1RH	0618057072	20096665	The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind	Books	5	32	35	N	N	An unconventional, yet compelling hypothesis	&quot;The yearning for certainty which grails the scientist, the aching beauty which harasses the artist, the sweet thorn of justice which fierces the rebel from the eases of life, or the thrill of exultation with which we hear the true acts of that now difficult virtue of courage, of cheerful endurance of hopeless suffering -- are these really derivable from matter?  Or even continuous with the idiot hierarchies of speechless apes?&quot;[pp. 8-9]<br />If nothing else, for a psychologist, Jaynes knows how to turn a phrase.  The introductory chapter from which this quote is taken sets up his broad hypothesis about the origin of human consciousness which, if true, would place evolutionary biology and the evolution of human consciousness on widely different tracks.<br />The book is in three parts:  the first explains the psychology behind the hypothesis; the second tests this hypothesis in the various ancient cultures in the Middle East, as depicted through their writings; the third tests the hypothesis against a variety of different psychological phenomena (from music and poetry to possession and hypnosis).  In his afterword, written in 1990, Jaynes summarizes the main points of his hypothesis:<br />1)  Consciousness is based on language -- By use of metaphors, metaphiers, paraphrands and paraphriers, human perceptivity increases by incorporating new phenomena into ideas already learned.  While one can learn a number of tasks, learning is not equivalent to consciousness.  Like a surfer riding the crest of a wave, human consciousness dances around, but is never completely submerged in, the sense data fed into the brain. From my own personal experience, after seeing a toddler, without any prompting, call a bicycle the &quot;mama&quot; and a tricycle next to it the &quot;baby&quot;, or saying that a rust spot on a car is a &quot;boo-boo&quot;, the ability to expand understanding via the metaphor from what is already learned has at least some anecdotal evidence to me.<br/>2)  The bicameral mind -- This gets into the more controversial part of his theory.  Human civilization, Jaynes says, began with citizens who were not &quot;conscious&quot; as we would understand it today.  Rather, the brain of the &quot;bicameral&quot; man was orientated in such a way that one half of the brain (the right side for right-handed people) was dictating auditory (and sometimes visual) hallucinations while the left side could do nothing but obey.  The characters in the Iliad are the example of such unconsciousness.  Jaynes goes on to propose how whole societies could be (and, based on the archaeological record, were) organized and could still function.  While it may seem implausible for an unconscious, non-self-reflecting society to be able to do anything with coordination, many people even today spend a great deal of their lives doing what they think they're supposed to do without self-reflection, until something forces them outside this direction in life.  Consciousness is an exercise, not something that can rolls along of its own biological momentum.<br />3)  The dating of the breakdown of the bicameral mind -- While certain developments such as writing helped to deteriorate the lockstep bicameral order, the main impetus for the breakdown (in the Middle East, which is the only arena he's concerned with) occurs around the end of the second millennium B.C. with a series of cataclysmic events that externally caused a migration of peoples, and internally cause a diminishing of the bicameral voice.  And from this regional catastrophe, Jaynes proposes, the conscious &quot;I&quot; began to be mapped out in the human mind for lack of the bicameral voice, in which Jaynes sees the Odyssey as an example of this developed consciousness.  It also sparked the age in which prophecy, myth, and superstitions were developed as part of the religious quest to regain that lost authoritative voice.<br />It's a well-detailed hypothesis, and some of the details might be blurred with the ordinary creative process, but the similarities between the internal model of the brain mapped out by Jaynes, and some of the more obscure details of archaeology, can't be easily dismissed.  Moreover, the pliability of the brain functions make such rapid adaptations all the more possible.  As Jaynes states in one of his later chapters [p.403]:<br />&quot;Those who through what theologians call the &quot;gift of faith&quot; can center and surround their lives in religious belief do indeed have different collective cognitive imperatives.  They can indeed change themselves through prayer and its expectancies much as in post-hypnotic suggestion.  It is a fact that belief, political or religious, or simply belief in oneself through some earlier cognitive imperative, works in wondrous ways.  Anyone who has experienced the sufferings of prisons or detention camps knows that both mental and physical survival is often held carefully in such untouchable hands.&quot;<br />&quot;But for the rest of us, who must scuttle along on conscious models and skeptical ethics, we have to accept our lessened control.  We are learned in self-doubt, scholars of our very failures, geniuses at excuse and tomorrowing our resolves.  And so we become practiced in powerless resolution until hope gets undone and dies in the unattempted.  At least that happens to some of us.  And then to rise above this noise of knowings and really change ourselves, we need an authorization that 'we' do not have.&quot;	2001-10-26
US	41846687	R3EEFDBMXYC9SG	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	3	82	97	N	N	It could use an updated introduction	The premise of this book -- that through the aid of psychoanalysis, we can find common elements in the world myths, folk tales, and religions -- is appealing.  The layout of the body of the book highlights the beginning, middle, and end of the hero journey, as told through a catalog of stories from all over the world in different time periods.  Roughly speaking, the &quot;meta-story&quot; Campell tells is a) a journey to a mysterious place, where the protagonist has been shaken out of the world of reality, b) a disintegration of identity, and, through battles with allegorical foes, a reintegration that gives the reinvigorated hero a power and the secret to conquer the &quot;tyrant&quot; of the old and decaying world of reality, and c) the hero's interaction (or refusal to do so) with the world of reality with his enlightened state.  The various motifs Campbell labels along the hero journey (e.g., the call to adventure, the belly of the whale, the magic flight) are intended to further this meta-story.<br />There are two problems I have with the book as it appears today, one of which is by Campbell's doing and the other not.  First, the method Campbell uses to make his points, through a series of concrete examples, is overwhelming to someone who has only a laymen's knowledge of the stories. As he jumps from a myth from, medieval Judaism and then (without a segue) to, for example, ancient Egypt, makes it harder and harder to understand the point he's trying to make by linking these stories together.<br />The second problem has to do with the state of scholarship in both psychology and religion since the 1940s, when Campbell wrote the book.  In psychology, there's a heavy reliance upon Freud and Jung in the book.  While I wouldn't say that their theories are obsolete, I would doubt that an author today were to use psychoanalysis to study world religions, I would doubt that he/she would use so much unfiltered Freud and Jung.<br />The study of religion has changed as well.  In particular, religious scholars today aren't as enthusiastic about the &quot;history of religions&quot; school as they were in the first half of the 20th century.  While some evangelical scholars will bristle at any notion that elements of their faith looks like others, the assumptions underlying Campbell's statement that &quot;[t]hroughout the ancient world such myths and rites abounded:  the deaths and resurrections of Tammuz, Adonis, Mithra, Virbius, Attis, and Osiris, and of their various animal representatives . . .are known to every student of comparative religion&quot; would come with some serious qualifiers today.<br />This isn't necessarily to say that these criticisms cripple Campbell's basic premise, or that these criticisms are even correct, but an introduction addressing these developments by a student or contemporary of Campbell would allow the reader to put more trust in the author when reading the book.<br />All in all, this method of studying comparative myths and religions has some value.  Certainly the mysteries of life and death to which these myths point have some similarities.  But if we are to suppose that psychoanalysis is a good tool to examine these similarities (a major assumption in itself), then the tools need to be sharpened a little more to reflect the development of religion and psychoanalysis since the middle of the 20th century.	2001-10-20
US	41846687	R1LBCQ2GVMCWGC	0553067494	356719935	With God on Our Side:  The Rise of the Religious right in America (Pbs Series)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	An excellent overview and reliable place to start.	This book is pretty solid in documenting the history of the religious right in America.  Although much of the focus is on the last half of the 20th century, the introduction and the epilogue give some background on the interaction between Christianity and government in the previous period.<br />I haven't seen the PBS television series that this book accompanies, so some things in the book probably impact a little differently than seeing video or audio accounts, especially so in a movement that makes so much use of oral speeches and broadcasts.  But at least in the written account, the balance is kept between fair treatment and criticism of the different elements of the movement.  This is no easy feat, given the sometimes inflammatory rhetoric both by the Christian right and against it.<br />The chapters of the book appear to reflect an episode format, with varying types of focal points telling the story in a roughly chronological order.  One chapter profiles a person (--Billy Graham) while other chapters highlight in depth a local conflict (such as the battle over sex education in Anaheim and the school book battle in West Virginia), while others talk primarily about the formation of the major activist groups (Moral Majority, and then later the Christian Coalition).  One trend appears to be that as the Judeo-Christian culture lost its monopoly in the political process, the struggle has been for the Christian right (in whatever form it took at the time) to keep its place at the table while keeping to its core values.  Even at the end of the book (which ends with mid-1996), this conflict was not resolved.<br />The book also focuses on personal profiles of the individuals in the involvement, which also provides some more depth about what many people might lump together as monolithic.  The differences between Jerry Falwell's background (the rural son of an alcoholic father) and Pat Robertson (the son of a U.S. senator) are pointed out in light of the interaction (or lack thereof) at certain points when they would be considered natural allies on the surface.  And at a time in the 1980s when most Christian preachers and conservative commentators were considering the possibility of quarantining or tatooing AIDS patients, one televangelist said:<br />&quot;How sad that we as Christians, who ought to be the salt of the earth, and we, who are supposed to be able to love everyone, are afraid so of an AIDS patient that we will not go up and put our arm around them and tell them that we care.&quot;<br />The televangelist?  Tammy Faye Bakker.<br />For those seeking to learn about the movement without the whitewash or the ridicule that accompanies most assessments of the Christian right, this book is the best place to start.	2001-10-17
US	41846687	R14KLFQ8R7K8WZ	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	4	9	N	N	More (and less) than what you would expect on the subject.	As a reference guide alone, the book is worth the price. Much of the book is structured by reference to the major figures of each period, so if the reader doesn't like the way she has portrayed a person or a period, one can do independent research and compare notes.<BR><br />Although a title such as this suggests that there's going to be a comprehensive analysis about everything God is and has been to humanity, there are some deliberate constraints on the scope. The subject here is to discuss the cause and effect relationship between humans and their God, primarily at the individual level. As she discusses throughout the book, the rise of monotheism had implications not only in the area of theology, but also in the notion of social justice and the duty to help the less fortunate in society. Armstrong describes how in all three faiths this call for social justice was a pivotal stage of development, melting away theological accretions and asserting that there was no one but God alone over the universe.<BR><br />But once this singularity and transcendence of deity is determined, the other part of the dilemma raises its head: if God is that overpowering and nondependent on humanity, how are humans ever to know him? It's this dilemma that the men and women Armstrong profiles try to answer, by supposing that God either a) can be known as a philosophical reality, b) can be experienced as a mystic partner, c) cannot be known or conceptualized at all, or d) can be known through his energies, but his essence cannot be known. There are certainly more answers proposed, but I think this is the tension Armstrong is describing in presenting the differing visions of God.<BR><br />As I said earlier, the book is a theological history, not a political one. I could probably count on one hand the number of popes or other political figures mentioned in the book. I don't think there's enough here to make any substantial conclusions about how she believes the religious authorities treatedthe less orthodox in their faith. The conflict with orthodoxy is, for the most part, a peripheral subject of the book.<BR><br />All in all, it's a great book to start with as a survey of monotheistic theology, and if you remember that that's all that it's trying to be about.	2001-09-22
