US	41851531	R3GTW3A9M27B5	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	1	42	157	N	N	A Rotten Little Book	I suppose that this book might be of some use as an antidote for semi-literate Americans who've read one too many articles by William F. Buckley and decided that they'd like to posess his \\"eloquence.\\" But for anyone who thinks that written English should aspire to beauty rather than mere functionality, it's about 100 pages of the worst imaginable sanctimonius claptrap, pressed between two glossy little covers.	2005-01-26
US	41851531	R1S8R09306XZRX	0060513888	612102301	Important Things That Don't Matter	Books	3	1	5	N	N	It's all in the voice.	Amsden has done something I've never seen any other writer pull off, here. He's figured out how to write like contemporary 20-to-30-somethings talk. A dubious achievement, y'might think, given the extraordinarily limited means of expression that seem to be relied upon by such folk (I'm in my early 30's myself, so mea culpa etc.), but amidst all of the \\"like, y'know\\"s there are enough evocative and well-composed sentences to make his writing a pleasure to read, without the appearance of incongruity.    The story itself is pretty standard MFA school stuff. Here's How My Parents Messed Me Up. I never got a really clear sense that I understood the characters of either the son or the Dad, apart from the hard-not-to-notice fact that they manage to succeed at making each other Very Sad. There are some nice set-pieces, though -  a great, weird-enough-to-be-plausible teenage sex scene, and a wonderful piece of dialogue between the main character and his step-sister.	2004-09-11
US	41851531	R2PUCYEWOSI8CQ	0679776443	879822150	Dead Souls	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Russian Apotheosis	Something about Russian writers seems to make them more brave, eloquent, detached - or whatever other virtue it might take - when it comes to describing the life of fantasy. Gogol's work is probably the very greatest Russian novel in at least this respect. He lays bare all of the ridiculous ways that human beings think of themselves without the self-flagellating pessimism of Dostoyevsky or the digressive sermonizing of Tolstoy. It's also a great satire, but although many of the characters are \\"types\\" few of them are two-dimensional.     It's a shame the last few sections of the novel are so piecemeal - I could cheerfully have followed Tchichikov around the country looking for dead peasants to buy for at least another volume.	2004-09-05
US	41851531	R2OB0IZTSAXY5V	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Uplifting Downer	When a hugely popular writer like Hornby writes a book that's this consistently and persuasively pessimistic, you've got to give him credit for guts. The only thing not to like about this novel is its protagonist, who like all of Hornby's indulges in way too much whiny special-pleading. He really does have the number of a certain class of suburban, self-righteous liberal types, but the main glory of this book is the plausibility of its weirdos - the character of DJ Goodnews is a real triumph; ditto for the street kids who get taken in by the book's central couple. The couple themselves are a bit of a cipher, by comparison, but one sees enough funny stuff through their eyes to make _How to Be Good_ a pleasure to read in spite of its uncompromisingly grim message about the prospects of escaping from a failed marriage.	2004-08-06
US	41851531	R1K3SBJFRIOX97	0679742301	863579586	Ripley Under Ground	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Amoralists can't all be this dull.	I thought I'd try this book because I enjoyed both of the films about Ripley. But take away the acting of Matt Damon and John Malkovich and Ripley loses his depth as a fascinatingly ambiguous amoralist, and turns into just a bore in a dressing gown who happens to kill a lot of people. Furthermore, Highsmith seems to have only one literary trick up her sleeve: describe a bunch of horrific acts in deadpan, Hemingwayesque prose so that your reader can shiver and marvel at the incongruity of it all. Well, ho hum.	2004-08-06
US	41851531	RJVTXXM48LOD8	014043349X	178320402	The Prime Minister (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Outsiders and Insiders	This book seemed to me to represent a return to form after the previous two rather plodding entries in the Palliser Saga. Trollope's depiction of relations between the intensely private Plantagenet and the injudiciously extrovert Glencora is a dead-on accurate portrait of middle-class marriage, and the fact that P. is made prime minister gives Trollope the chance to show interaction between the personal and political spheres in a way that I found absolutely fascinating. <br />The most intriguing part of the book, though, are the sections that deal with Ferdinand Lopez, a Jewish \\"outsider\\" to upper class London society, toward whom Trollope seems to have had a fascinatingly unsettled and ambivalent attitude. Is he a tragic figure whose relatively small-scale vices only bring about his downfall because he is trying to gain entry into a self-enclosed world of unearned privilege, or is he really the unscrupulous \\"adventurer\\" that the other characters all regard him as being? The fact that the author himself never really seems to have made up his own mind on this topic is perhaps a weakness in some sense, but it shows that Trollope was able to retain at least some of his intellectual honesty as the curious, inquisitive liberalism of his youth began to give way to the slightly paranoid toryism of his old age.	2004-07-18
US	41851531	R37F9Z9G33BIPV	0199247994	491455466	On Virtue Ethics	Books	4	20	23	N	Y	100% Worhwhile	This is a really valuable book. A lot of philosophers have been talking for the past twenty years about \\"Virtue Theory\\"  as an approach in normative ethics that can rival deontology and utilitarianism for depth, plausibility and coherence. But Hursthouse's book is the first that I'm aware of to attempt a full statement of precisely what it is that makes the approach distinctive. And anyone who's familiar with the work of other philosophers (e.g. Elizabeth Anscombe, John McDowell, Bernard Williams) who've been viewed as the standard-bearers for VT during this period of time will be able to recognize that it's an unqualified success in at least this respect.<br />So, does the book actually make VT seem appealing? Well, there's some excellent stuff on how to distinguish rule-based approaches from character based approaches to ethical evaluation. And there's a wonderfully subtle discussion of precisely how Aristotlelian accounts of the moral significance of a person's motivations differ from those traditionally given by Kantians. There's also some very silly stuff at the end though. Her discussion of the difference between human beings and animals is jaw-droppingly simplistic - really, almost Philistine. Like Foot and McDowell, she fails to register the fact that thousands of very smart people have thought about this subject in zoology, anthropology and biology departments around the world and that it might be at least somewhat worthwhile to take a bit of glance at what they have to say. And at the end she delivers a stunning battery of ad hominems against Bernard Williams for daring to suggest that the Aristotelian notion of a distinctive human function doesn't stand up to careful and impartial scrutiny. <br />Even in these areas, though, what Hursthouse says is far from being out of step with the views propagated by other writers in the VT tradition. If one is left with the slightly disappointing impression that the VT approach might after all be little more than thefetish of a couple of generations of clever, but slightly wooly Oxbridge humanists, it's hard to see how she herself can be blamed for this.	2004-07-17
US	41851531	R2W6EUPBF7GOSC	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Prejudices confirmed.	I approached this book in a mood of some grouchiness. It had just won both the Hugo and the Nebula awards when I started reading it, and I was incensed. Another Joseph Campbell-esque piece of New-Agey balderdash masquerading (apparently successfully) as speculative fiction, I thought to meself.<br />And you know what? It's not that I was really even all that wrong...but the book is fantastic, regardless. Like most writers who cut their teeth on comic books (think Michael Chabon) Gaiman is better at short vignettes and set-pieces than he is at constructing a plot or drawing up particularly memorable characters. But this novel is so rich with vivid scenes and conversations and digressions that it's actually a quick read, even though by the end I wasn't entirely sure that it all added up to a whole lot.<br />I didn't even end up minding that the whole story was designed around the tired old &quot;the Gods only exist because we believe in them&quot; conceit. Because the gods that Gaiman thinks up really are magnificent creations. There's one scene where his protagonist has a conversation with the God that inhabits his television that still makes me shudder just to think about.	2004-06-25
US	41851531	R2F4P9RRZINTJI	0521578264	143093638	Virtues of the Mind: An Inquiry into the Nature of Virtue and the Ethical Foundations of Knowledge (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy)	Books	4	24	27	N	Y	Edifying.	There are all sorts of excellent reasons why any analytic philosopher should read this book. It's the locus classicus for an important new approach in epistemology - the doctrine, that is, that knowledge should be defined in terms of the traits of character involved in its acquisition, rather that by genus and difference (in the way that it has usually been since Plato) as a sub-class of true beliefs distinguishable by virtue of their justificatory status. It also contains a very interesting, synoptic discussion of the concept of virtue itself, and its significance and usefulness in ethics as well as epistemology. Finally, Zagzebski is an enormously well-read and engaging writer - she has remarkable breadth of learning for a contemporary analytic philosopher, and a talent for placing enormously diverse sources (from medieval philosophy to literary fiction to the ideas of some of the most obscure and demanding contemporary philosophers) onto the same chessboard. This makes the book an uncommonly pleasurable read for anyone interested in the issues she discusses.<br />Does she make a convincing case for so-called &quot;virtue epistemology?&quot; Not even close, in my books - her solution to the famous Gettier problem for traditional definitions of knowledge depends upon a distinction between the acts performed by virtuous people and what she calls &quot;acts of virtue&quot; that seemed to me to be more or less entirely spurious and ad hoc. But I got so much other stuff out of the book that by the end I didn't even care all that much about this relatively minor flaw.	2004-05-26
US	41851531	RY2ILT7MFF0C8	0916583864	745882665	Imaginative Qualities of Actual Things	Books	3	18	24	N	N	So here I am, writing a review of Sorrentino...	At its best, this book is really, really mean. Sorrentino has a great eye for some of the most crapulent cliches of American intellectual life, and the characters he sketches here are their embodiments. The passages on the 1960s &quot;back to nature&quot; movement and the dread vers libre that it inspired are extermely funny, and deserve to be read aloud.<br />Here's the thing though - Sorrentino belonged to a generation of writers who for some reason managed to convince themselves that if they paused every fifteen pages or so in the midst of some narrative and said &quot;well, here I am writing a book about a bunch of people who don't really exist,&quot; or something similar, they were displaying the very height of literary sophistication and originality. Words cannot convey how quickly this &quot;metafictional&quot; approach became stale, and like Jacobean drama, absurdist theatre and Disco music, it seems pretty much destined to be viewed as a phase in the history of the arts distinctive mainly by virtue of its freakishness. Which is realy kind of ironic, given the nature of Sorrentino's quarry.	2004-05-26
US	41851531	R3RT7GM61P5AKO	0802140041	260207432	Voyage: The Coast of Utopia, Part I	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Strange Ambition	I'm kind of in mourning for Stoppard. He's still far and away the best, most natural writer of dialogue in the English language, and he still clearly possesses a very sharp-witted and perceptive understanding of human nature, and an ability to depict characters in such a way that you can see how even some fairly sophisticated and difficult ideas might have arisen from the distinctive quirks of their individual personalities, and vice versa.     But somewhere between _Indian Ink_ and _The Invention of Love_ he for some unfathomable reason decided that he was going to stop writing plays and start writing three-dimensional, illustrated history textbooks. Why?? It seems like such a misdirection of his abilities. I'm glad that as he ages gracefully, he's able to happily sail off to Byzantium, but I never asked to be taken onto the boat.	2004-05-26
US	41851531	R2YJGAEG8A24JD	0312931786	163747319	Good News from Outer Space	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The millennium arrives...but not the ending...	I read this book about ten years after it was published, and I gotta say that by then, the topic of millenarianism seemed to have been pretty much played out, in science fiction and elsewhere. But one should try and get past this mild source of annoyance when reading Kessel's book, because he does deal with the topic a lot better than most people did around the end of the twentieth century. The guy has a wonderful eye for human folly, and he's at his best when he seems to be depicting it hyperbolically until you think to yourself, &quot;Wait...I KNOW some people (religious fanatics, trashy journalists, pathological liars, junkies, slobs) who really ARE this awful!&quot;<br />The book is also interspersed with some very well-written and spooky passages in which a number of the characters seem to have encounters with aliens - or at least human beings who appear to be in the possession of some very strange powers and ideas. These episodes generate an enormous amount of expectation as the reader waits for Kessel to explain to us what the hell ties all of these events together...<br />..and he never does! The millennium arrives, the book ends. C'est tout. I'd give a lot of money to know what was going on in Kessel's head when he wrote the last thirty pages or so of this tome. But in spite of its formidable observational and stylistic virtues, the book left me kicking the furniture and cursing his name when I was done. Not a goal that the literary artist habitually aspires to, y'woulda thought.	2004-05-26
US	41851531	R358SHP5T06PPA	0375414983	89263190	My Life as a Fake	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A scarier Frankenstein	This is a gorgeous novel, Carey's best in a while, though not quite up to the exalted standard set by _Oscar and Lucinda_ and _The Unusual Life of Tristan Smith_. It contains the usual gallery of tall-tale-tellers, sentimentalists and wildly irrational antiheroes, but the fact that it's mostly told via indirect speech adds a welcome touch of detachment and orderliness that I thought was missing from both _Jack Maggs_ and _The Kelly Gang_. Carey evokes Malaysia in a way that makes me want to pack my bags, and his ability to get into the mind of a reserved spinster who's simultaneously both a literary perfectionist and a virtuoso of self-deception is an absolute triumph of imagination.<br />Pace some reviewers on this site, I don't think his aim is really to deflate the &quot;pretensions&quot; of literary critics or lovers of poetry - when I see remarks like this they always tell me more about the shortcomings of the US educational system (assuming that's where most of the readers here are coming from) than about the books that are under discussion. Throughout, the sense is that the preservation of great works of poetry is one of the noblest and most worthwhile goals imaginable. The novel doesn't really take sides on the whole modernist/anti-modernist debate that occasioned the real-life hoax upon which it's based, though. Carey just uses the story of Ern Malley as a catalyst to summon up a host of wonderful characters and set them off and running.	2004-03-28
US	41851531	R3J2XP77BBGA99	0425192938	919064525	Pattern Recognition (Blue Ant)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Return to Form!	I actually found the first hundred pages of this book kind of difficult to get into. Gibson's prose style, with all of the broken sentences and cyberjargon, which struck me as indefatigably cool when I was in my teens, started off seeming very forced and gimmicky. The main character is a bit of a cipher. And Gibson also seems to have decided that high-level marketing-speak is the new idiom within which we should all be engaging in social philosophy and cultural criticism. Whereas I tend to think that the old-fashioned idioms of social philosophy and cultural criticism actually tend to do a pretty good job, still.<br />But the ending - wow! Gibson turns out to have developed an unusually profound understanding of just how precariously the flashy, opulent global capitalism of the 21st century sits upon the ashes of an older world. This is his best book since his first two masterpieces, _Neuromancer_ and _Count Zero_, and  absolutely required reading for anybody under the age of fifty. Don't miss it!	2004-03-15
US	41851531	R21AKKZLFF16LC	0312140940	65783878	Wonder Boys: A Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	N	D.A.R.E.	So, first things first: Chabon is, right now, simply the world's best living writer of English prose.<br />The only really fair question to ask given this fact is how _Wonder Boys_ stacks up against his other work. Answer: it lacks the sheer jaw-dropping magnificence of _Kavalier and Klay_, but it's a step forward from both _The Mysteries of Pittsburgh_ and the short stories. There are at least three dozen chokingly funny one-liners, the plot is an utterly ingenious picaresque, and the hero, Grady Tripp, is totally believable. I've had friends who were similarly gifted but who used just enough pot or booze to cause their lives to spin that little extra bit beyond their control, and Chabon shows this happening with surgical and unsentimental precision, without ever sacrificing the novel's lightness of tone.<br />I saw the movie first, and think this was a mistake, although it does have many charms. There's a lovely pair of performances by Tobey Maguire and Robert Downey Jr. Also there's a wonderful scene near the end, involving a retired boxer and a  jacket that once belonged to Marilyn Monroe, that's not in the book at all - surprising, given how sweet and apt it seemed to me to be in the film. But one only gets to witness the slow disintegration of Tripp's literary talent from the inside (so to speak) in the novel, and Tripp's drug use is also treated as being just a cuddly and insignificant eccentricity in the film, in that way that Hollywood people foolishly prefer to think of such things. The novel is much more of a cautionary tale, and a far superior work of art as the result.	2004-02-23
US	41851531	R1GVRISA2FGNLC	0199244219	123314016	Beyond the Limits of Thought	Books	4	58	58	N	Y	The One and the Many	This is a fascinating and clearly written book of philosophy that deals with the problems that arise when we try to characterize the inherent limitations of human thought. Priest's position (\\"dialethism\\") is that in doing so, we inevitably contradict ourselves, and hence that the law of non-contradiction should be rejected.<br />Priest's argument here depends upon the crucial claim that a wide variety of apparent paradoxes in set theory, semantics, philosophical psychology and metaphysics exhibit a common structure, and hence require a \\"uniform solution.\\" To the extent that his very wide-ranging and often insightful discussion of how these paradoxes have arisen in the writings of philosophers throughout history convinces one of this, dialethism does start to look awfully difficult to avoid. But in trying to describe this structure (which Priest refers to as the \\"inclosure schema,\\" and finds identified most explicitly in the work of Georg Cantor), he ascends to such a high level of generality and abstraction that I found it difficult to swallow his demand for \\"uniformity.\\" The crude system of classification that he uses to group together most other philosophers' attempts to resolve the relevant paradoxes without giving up on the law of non-contradiction reinforces this impression. He accuses so many different writers of using the supposedly lame strategy of \\"parametrization\\" that I simply have no idea what this word is supposed to refer to by the end of the book.<br />Nonetheless, Priest's work makes for exciting reading for anyone who thinks that analytic philosophy has been in the doldrums since the glory days of Quine and Davidson. Priest has a genuinely novel way of looking at the world. And his synthesis of logical rigor and historical sensitivity in the treatment of an extraordinarily diverse range of texts is rare indeed.	2004-02-18
US	41851531	R2SFSGIY0I2X7R	0192835599	258130216	Phineas Redux (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Spinning his wheels	Trollope supposedly wrote this book in response to public disappointment at the ending of _Phineas Finn_. I can't imagine why; it seemed to me that the former novel's ending was quite brilliant, really, and Phineas himself was always rather a cipher. In both novels, he seems to represent little more than a conduit for the influence of womanly wiles (as Trollope conceived of them) upon the political process.<br />So what we get here is Trollope's _Merry Wives of Windsor_. The plot trundles along through a minutely reported debate between Liberals and Conservatives upon the disestablishment of the church, followed by a very run-of-the-mill murder trial that pales in comparison to just about any one of John Mortimer's Rumpole stories. One gets the sense that Trollope is marking time, here. <br />Nonetheless, there are some wonderful character sketches sandwiched inbetween the long passages of reportage, and it's a fairly quick read. The Palliser completist should approach it with only mild apprehensiveness, not outright dread.	2004-02-17
US	41851531	R2EHEIWX7HMGL7	0140043357	573889906	The Glittering Prizes	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The more things change...	This novel tells the story of a bunch of Cambridge graduates from the '50s and their journeys into adulthood and responsibility. It was made into a terrific British TV series with Tom Conti, and it reads like it was written for TV - there's tons of absolutely brilliant, witty and sparkling dialogue, but so little background information about each scene that it's sometimes tricky to keep track of which character is saying what and how specific remarks affect the people who hear them. <br />It's worth the effort, though, because the book provides a wonderfully vivid snapshot of how a bunch of clever folks of widely varied personalities responded to the challenges of their time. These are people with well-developed social consciences, great senses of humor and a deep appreciation for their friendships, but they're also incredibly furtive and childish about sex and their education has badly under-prepared them for the exigencies of making a living, which leads many of them to become awfully cynical awfully quickly as soon as the prospects of fame and wealth start to intrude upon their intimacies.<br />Come to think of it, these were probably the most widespread character flaws amongst the people I went to college with, back in the 1990s. Perennial problems of the educated classes, or has our civilization just been in a weird holding pattern for the past 50 years? Hmm.	2004-01-21
US	41851531	R2YWFJ7PYJGUCA	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The ending is a downer...	I enjoyed this sweet-natured and funny retelling of the life of Jesus from the perspective of one Levi (nicknamed Biff) a rather mysterious Biblical character who rates just a single mention in the gospel of Mark. Moore has Levi reincarnated and kidnapped by a deranged angel and imprisoned in a cheap motel where he is set to the task of writing down his own version of the Greatest Story Ever Told. Seen through the lens of Moore's benignly ex-hippie sensibility, the character of Jesus is a touching mixture of adolescent confusion and single-minded devotion to his destiny.<br />The jokes in this book are a little hit-and-miss, but I found most of them funny and none of them offensive - 'course, I'm not a christian, but many of my best friends, etc. Two small complaints: the subplot about Biff's relationship with the angel never really gets any sort of satisfying resolution, and the book comes to a screaming halt with little if any denouement. It's really quite an ambitious novel in a gentle sort of way, and by the end one gets the sense that the author was running out of gas.	2004-01-06
US	41851531	RPEUNDUPDC8CN	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Family-Porn	It's been ages since I got more pleasure from reading a novel. Franzen's the only American writer who can even come close to Martin Amis for verbal wit and inventiveness. There's also a kind of Tolstoyan grandeur to this book, at least insofar as he tried his damnedest to squeeze in absolutely everything that there was to say about American culture during the 90's boom years. He has a deep understanding of popular culture, the culinary arts, the dynamics of middle-class marriage, and (almost uniquely, in these days where being well-informed in such subjects is often regarded with disgust by so-called 'experts' in the humanities) second-world politics and first-world economics.<br />After turning over the last page, I did find myself idly wondering what it was supposed to add up to, though. The reader ends up with a very, very good idea of the variety of ways in which children of differing temperaments, abilities and principles can be permanently screwed-up by being raised inside of a loveless marriage. But most of us sort of suspected that already, and in spite of all of the many laughs and flashes of recognition that this book provides, there's a certain grueling quality to being raked over these particular coals. Therapeutic, I suppose, if you're one of the many Americans between twenty-five and forty who came from a similar sort of household, but since my family was actually pretty cool the book did have a sort of pornographic feel, for me. Still, perhaps that isn't entirely a criticism... Ahem.	2003-11-16
US	41851531	RCDT2CEH3D4WC	0312267460	538222637	Headlong: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Clowns Frighten Me	This is a witty and cleverly-constructed book. There are two problems with it. The first is that this sort of trick of juxtaposing a story in a contemporary setting with a narrative about some subtly parallel scholarly discoveries has already been done about as well as it ever could have been by A.S. Byatt in _Possession_. Frayn's novel rather suffers by comparison, although I didn't find the long digressions on Breughel here as annoying as some other reviewers seem to have. <br />The second more debilitating problem is that the narrator is a Fool. Not just a loveable stumblebum or a mild eccentric, but an out-and-out, unqualified buffoon. In many of his plays Frayn displays a formidable talent for the construction of hilarious bedroom farces, but these talents are misused in a novel like this, which in other ways attempts to be much more serious in what it communicates. Here the awful way that the guy treats his family and the casual delusions that he cultivates as a way to distract himself from his own research can't just be chuckled off as devices for keeping the door slamming and the bedpans flying - they make it awfully difficult for one to get excited about the hero's researches in the way that I think Frayn wants us to. He strikes a better balance between the forces of seriousness and farce in his two best novels (both absolutely wonderful, five-star reads) _The Trick of It_ and _A Landing on the Sun_.	2003-11-16
US	41851531	R1473TXENTI57D	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Outside his range.	Dickens was a great rhetorician, but not a very deep social thinker. _Hard Times_ is the novel in which he tries to tell us that there are a Whole lot O' Things Wrong with Britain in the nineteenth century. You've got people living in wage slavery! You've got educators who can't raise their own children! You've got amoral, rakish aristocrats! You've got unprincipled politicians and businessmen! When Dickens is taking on each of these subjects individually in his other works, he's wonderful; when he sews up his complaints against them into one big bundle and convinces himself that it's a Social Theory, he's a tiresomely shrill satirist and all of his characters turn as flat as paper before one's very eyes.<br />This doesn't, of course, mean that the book isn't worth reading - after all, it's Dickens. There are some very sweet and descriptively rich passages about a traveling circus and although one finds it difficult to give a hoot about any of the characters aside from Mr. Gradgrind (who might have been developed much more richly if Dickens had cut down on the windy deploring a little and worked harder to make him seem like less of a cipher) the plot thunders along at the usual absorbingly breathless pace. But if you haven't read _David Copperfield_ or _A Tale of Two Cities_ yet, then for God's sake don't start out with this relatively second-rate effort.	2003-10-23
US	41851531	RWT3CDTCMBZ3E	0312860986	999993855	China Mountain Zhang	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Plotless but Absorbing	This book is about a slightly far-fetched, but wonderfully well-envisioned future. Maureen McHugh has the talent of making one feel thoroughly immersed in the main characters' universe without using any of the verbal trickery or shock tactics habitually employed by her contemporaries in the so-called 'cyberpunk' movement. There's a very singular strangeness about the world as she imagines it being run by the communist Chinese, and I found myself puzzled by the end as to whether this came from the fact that such an arrangement normally would seem so unlikely, or from the fact that McHugh made it seem like such a natural development out of present cultural and economic trends.<br />I can see how the novel's plotlessness and the sense of irresolution that one gets at the end might have been off-putting to some, but I found that Zhang himself was the sort of character to whom this style of narrative was best suited - he's reflective without being particularly deep, and ambitious without being particularly resolute. I did want to know more about him than I'd found out by the end of the book, and about the two fascinating characters who form the book's weirdly free-floating sub-plot (which takes place on Mars). But this can't be considered a weakness of the novel, surely.	2003-10-13
US	41851531	R2XZ0BV2FO5INU	0312931484	85016164	Look into the Sun	Books	2	3	4	N	N	An earnest muddle	I really like Kelly's short stories, and I badly wanted to like this novel, but it just doesn't work. Two main problems: first, the protagonist is far too passive and mealy-mouthed, and an utterly unconvincing portrayal of a supposedly brilliant artist. And second, the alien civilization that he visits is very confusing, and facts about it are revelaed piecemeal and without enough context for the reader to be able to tell what really makes these creatures tick. Overall it reads like the first effort of a guy who might one day produce something really good - read Kelly's other stuff and ask for yourself if that promise has been fulfilled.	2003-09-15
US	41851531	R314JZLB2L7W87	0195123352	587311682	Understanding Truth	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Flawed but Valuable	Soames accomplishes what he sets out to do in the book, which is to provide a clear and coherent introduction to the formal theories of truth developed by Alfred Tarski and Saul Kripke, and to suggest some ways that these theories can be used to illuminate philosophical concerns about what the truth predicate can normally be taken to mean in its regular usage. His coverage of the work of these two logicians is lucid and helpful, but I wish he'd provided a bit more of a summary of Kripke's notoriously obscure theory - his presentation of it is placed within the context of a more general discussion of \\"partially defined predicates\\" in a way that makes it less than entirely clear exactly what components of his treatment are ideas that Kripke would himself endorse.<br />Soames inherits from Richard Cartwright the somewhat idiosyncratic (these days) view that the primary bearers of truth are propositions rather than sentences. This is a thesis that is only defended rather glibly in the book's early chapters but it informs most of what he says later. There is a long digression about two-thirds of the way through in which he tries to solve the philosophical problem of vagueness - there is remarkably little evidence of engagement with the literature already out there on this topic, and I'm less than clear why this stuff is even in the book at all. Soames' style is consistently clear but also rather turgid - he insists on taking the reader through every single step of every single argument that he makes, however basic or obvious some of them might seem, and one can sometimes lose sight of the forest for the trees as a result of this. <br />Still, a little patience with the book is well-rewarded, and by the end I found myself wondering why something like this hadn't in fact been written much earlier by anyone else.	2003-08-28
US	41851531	R2YDLJOPOPL7WX	031205436X	778768680	Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ignore the Package	The enormous amount of media hype that surrounded this novel when it first came out, and its rather gimmicky packaging (the book is hugely and pointlessly square and has a screed of weird aphorisms sprinkled around its super-wide margins) can make it easy to overlook the fact that Douglas Coupland really does have the goods as a writer. His characters here and in the more mature and carefully composed _Microserfs_ are full of life and instantly likeable. And in spite of his earnest and perhaps rather un-self-critical efforts to map the Zeitgeist, Coupland's enormous linguistic gifts and his virtuosity with the mechanisms of the frame-narrative actually made me think of Chaucer more than anybody else. _Generation X_ is a kind of contemporary _Canterbury Tales_, maybe?<br />I docked this novel one star for a simple reason - it doesn't have an ending. Instead it rather infelicitously trails off into the sort of trite sociology that was so faddish back in the early 90s when so many of us really had nothing better to do but sit around comparing our economic prospects with those of our parents. Is it really such a historical disaster that so many of us who were born into the middle classes in the late 60s and early 70s are going to have to swallow a few extra bags of Ramen noodles over the course of our adult lives? Get over it, people!	2003-08-28
US	41851531	RBEBKVRCSSXA8	0553104845	15854629	Distraction	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sterling's Inner Struggle	OK, the first thing that you need to know is that this is an above-average Bruce Sterling Novel. Translation: buy it and read it as soon as you can. Put off sleep or friendly relations with your loved ones if necessary. Bruce Sterling is the most insightful writer about the near future currently on the planet, and he also writes better dialogue than anyone else in science fiction. His work reminds me of the plays of GB Shaw, in that one finds oneself always agreeing with the last person who spoke, even if what he or she says represents a 180 degree reversal from what was said on the previous page.<br />This is a political novel. Sterling is a deeply conflicted guy about politics. All of his protagonists are two-fisted individualist types of the sort more or less familiar from Hollywood movies and highschool US History textbooks (except that here they're about five hundred per cent more articulate and interesting). Clearly, though, in a part of his mind he believes that these sorts of people will come to seem redundant - faintly ridiculous, even - in a world where technology and environmental change have accelerated to the point at which the only way for human life to be made livable is to have everything run by a rich, benevolently paternalistic quasi-socialist central government. As a socialist myself, I'm more comfortable with his vision of the future than I am with his views about what's truly admirable in human nature, but some of his most endearing system-bucking characters both here and in his best book, _Holy Fire_, do sort of give me pause.<br />In _Distraction_, unlike in _Holy Fire_, the internal conflicts of Sterling's world-view appear to have interfered with his plotting of the novel a bit. He doesn't seem to have been entirely sure what to do with his two main characters, Oscar the political hack and Greta the neurobiologist, at the end of the book, and they seem to just sort of drift off into nowhere as the story concludes. Reading the last few pagesI felt like I was watching Sterling throw up his hands in despair at the prospect of finding any way to reconcile what's best about American individualism with the social realities of the near future, which made me a bit sad. Maybe he's right, though.	2003-08-16
US	41851531	R12L3036QRVIR7	0312254385	83249936	Werewolves in Their Youth: Stories	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Sneaking up on Nabokov	This is the better of Chabon's two short story collections. There isn't a lot of thematic variation here - all of these stories except for the very last one are about the muddles and unpredictabilities attendant upon married life, and reading them quickly one after the other can be a bit of a downer for this reason. But Chabon has an incredible gift with language, and although a lot of his characters are losers or muddleheaded or the victims of terrible decisions, his prose makes the world around them seem so rich and pregnant with possibilities that it's difficult to find any of the yarns here too depressing. The only time he misfires is in one story that's set entirely in a neighborhood bar - Chabon clearly doesn't frequent such places, and his attempt to catch the atmosphere in one is condescending and a little cliched.<br />The last story, \\"In The Black Mill,\\" was a special treat for me. I'm a big fan of gothic horror and this is a wonderful pastiche of M.R. James with maybe a touch of Poe. One hopes that the author never gets so soaked up in Northeastern literary culture that he begins to think that this sort of genre exercise is beneath his dignity.	2003-08-11
US	41851531	RWJ8RFDSEJ6II	0553104845	15854629	Distraction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sterling's Still the Best	OK, the first thing that you need to know is that this is an above-average Bruce Sterling Novel. Translation: buy it and read it as soon as you can. Put off sleep or friendly relations with your loved ones if necessary. Bruce Sterling is the most insightful writer about the near future currently on the planet, and he also writes better dialogue than anyone else in science fiction. His work reminds me of the plays of GB Shaw, in that one finds oneself always agreeing with the last person who spoke, even if what he or she says represents a 180 degree reversal from what was said on the previous page.<br />This is a political novel. Sterling is a deeply conflicted guy about politics. All of his protagonists are two-fisted individualist types of the sort more or less familiar from Hollywood movies and highschool US History textbooks (except that here they're about five hundred per cent more articulate and interesting). Clearly, though, in a part of his mind he believes that these sorts of people will come to seem redundant - faintly ridiculous, even - in a world where technology and environmental change have accelerated to the point at which the only way for human life to be made livable is to have everything run by a rich, benevolently paternalistic quasi-socialist central government. As a socialist myself, I'm more comfortable with his vision of the future than I am with his views about what's truly admirable in human nature, but some of his most endearing system-bucking characters both here and in his best book, _Holy Fire_, do sort of give me pause.<br />In _Distraction_, unlike in _Holy Fire_, the internal conflicts of Sterling's world-view appear to have interfered with his plotting of the novel. He doesn't seem to have been entirely sure what to do with his two main characters, Oscar the political hack and Greta the neurobiologist, at the end of the book, and they seem to just sort of drift off into nowhere as the story concludes. Reading the last few pages I feltlike I was watching Sterling throw up his hands in despair at the prospect of finding any way to reconcile what's best about American individualism with the social realities of the near future. This made me a bit sad. Maybe he's right, though.	2003-08-07
US	41851531	R30B4B9UR8O89J	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A lovely book, apart from the plot and the characters.	Updike has a truly singular gift as a writer - he can chronicle the small pleasures and frustrations that we get from life's minutiae in gorgeous prose that's a delight to read, and makes one want to try to recapitulate the inner lives of his characters within oneself by walking around with a permanent sense of wonder. <br />One would like to think, though, that a person could somehow manage to pull this off without becoming a totally self-absorbed, frivolous clown like Rabbit Angstrom. And all the golden epiphanies in the world can't disguise this fact about Updike's protagonist. I mean, this is a guy who runs out on his drunken wife, leaving her to look after a newborn infant unassisted, because she won't have nasty sex with him. As well as being a heel, he's also a crushing bore - his early mid-life crisis is just too predictable and timeworn a phenomenon to be made new for us by being described \\"from the inside.\\" As a result this book falls into the rather suspect category of novels that Raymond Williams identified as \\"the fiction of special pleading.\\" And the jury is not convinced.<br />The solution to this sort of problem that comes up with a style of writing like Updike's has been discovered by his most devoted apostle (and to my mind, a far superior writer) Nicholson Baker, whose books utterly forego the conventional aims of narrative and sensibly stick to the minutiae. If you have an appetite for this sort of stuff, try out his novels _Vox_ and _The Fermata_.	2003-08-05
US	41851531	R11WL4GR0SCSSN	0262611457	430482144	Vagueness: A Reader	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best First Book Available on the Subject	I found this book enormously helpful. It contains most of the classic recent papers on vagueness in the analytic tradition from Dummett onward, plus a little pre-history, a few small curiosities (the papers by Tye and Machina, for example, seem to have been included mostly for their novelty value, but I found them both interesting and worth the effort) and a very comprehensive introdution that covers most of the main theories of vagueness that contemporary philosophers tend to find most plausible. The issue of vagueness is slowly coming to attract the same intensity and vigor of debate that the issue of analyticity did in the 1950s and 1960s, and this makes the value of Keefe and Smith's work almost impossible to measure. If only more anthologies of recent work in philosophy were assembled this carefully and intelligently!	2003-07-22
US	41851531	R2UZUBKG2OMU23	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An instant classic(with all of the vices pertaining thereto)	The first thing that should be said about this novel is that anyone who reads it from a position of being able to compare it with the work of similar writers from the past thirty years or so will recognize it as a book that will clearly be discussed well into the future - fifty, or possibly even a hundred years - as representing a clear reflection the thoughts and attitudes of our own time. McEwan balances close psychological description with (dare one say it?) post-modern detachment without ever becoming as ponderous as a Murdoch or as gimmicky as a Barth. The main characters - especially Briony Tallis - are fascinating and fully realized human individuals, and the novel's clever and disorienting shifts of tone and perspective are masterful and never gratuitous or self-congratulatory.<br />That having been said, there's a certain studiedness to it all, and the ending, while very striking and fascinatingly ambiguous, also seems perhaps a little facile in its cleverness, in a way that reminds one of the 'twist' endings of M. Night Shyamalan and David Fincher movies. One worries that this manner of storytelling will come to seem awfully used-up over the next twenty years or so.<br />Still, in the meantime, this novel is simply not to be missed. I read it obsessively over the course of two days and it was only after much careful reflection that its minor shortcomings became apparent to me. How many contemporary authors write works that are even worth thinking about this much?	2003-07-07
US	41851531	R9A5PGWHMS1RJ	0192834665	808659101	The Eustace Diamonds (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Read it IF you want full coverage of the Palliser Novels	There is a lot to like about this book. It has the usual host of colorful and varied characters that one finds in Trollope's novels. There are strong and complex women, sturdy and weak-willed men, and some wonderful set-pieces. It's a bit of a let-down after _Phineas Finn_, though, which to my mind is the greatest political novel in the English language. The previous two 'Palliser' novels having been clearly both for and about Liberals, I think that Trollope was struggling in this novel to write in a way that would both reflect and appeal to more Conservative sensibilities. So we get a lot of domestic gossip, a little mild anti-semitism, and endless lectures about the Proper way for a Gentleman to Behave to a Lady. Still, the protagonist, Lizzie Eustace, is a gem.	2003-07-02
US	41851531	RJZO64GKSRWEG	0679750096	254020597	Evolution Man: Or, How I Ate My Father	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A classic tale of love, patricide and cannibalism.	Sweet Jehovah, this is a funny book. The conceit is an obvious one when you think about it - write the story of our evolutionary ancestors from a first-person perspective, but in a language that shows all the sensibilities of a well-read, reflective and slightly pompous late-nineteenth century Englishman. The courtship scenes alone I think I have re-read about fifty times and never without laughing.	2003-06-30
US	41851531	R3LYL48MPIHS0B	0521406765	522413072	Mortal Questions (Canto)	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Like granola for the brain	This book is unique in fulfilling two criteria that are very important to me. It is i) a work of twentieth-century analytic philosophy full of carefully-developed and rigorous arguments for controversial conclusions, of the sort that could be expected to generate lively and subtle debate amongst some of the greatest thinkers of the present age, and ii) it's the sort of thing that my mom would enjoy. Semi-educated media pundits often like to blather about how contemporary philosophy fails to 'tackle' the most important issues that every human being has to deal with - the fear of death, the attractions of sex, the influence of luck upon personality - failing to realize that the main point of the discipline is surely to draw our attention from these often rather dreary topics of diurnal reflection to more worthy subjects. But there will always be room for one more book like Nagel's.<br />I did dock him one star, though, because some of the claims that he makes in the essay \\"What Is It Like To Be A Bat?\\" really are pretty goofy.	2003-06-30
