US	41914976	R3RMAR5YDB2BXY	0385336403	293114026	Cloud of Sparrows	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very good debut	This was a thoroughly enjoyable book and an excellent inaugural effort by author Takashi Matsuoka. <br />Though the frequent flashbacks and scene cuts were a bit distracting, the overall story captivated me and I was eager to keep reading further and further.  <br />Lord Genji, Great Lord of Akaoka, as his ancestors before him, has the gift of prophecy.  Among other things, he has seen that an outsider will save his life.  Coincidentally (or perhaps not?), three Americans have arrived in Japan to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the people of Japan.  But are their true intentions to spread the word of God or do they have ulterior motives?  At the same time, the Shogun's secret police chief has been plotting Genji's death because of an ancestral feud started centuries ago.  Moreover, civil war seems all but inevitable as clans begin to question the Shogun's power and judgment with the impending outsider invasion.<br />Samurai, geisha, ninja, revenge, love, honor, deceit abound.  What's not to like?<br />I look forward to future works from Takashi Matsuoka and I highly recommend this book.	2003-12-27
US	41914976	R8Z4BXELTEG0W	B0000AA9IQ	194776169	Cold Zero: Inside the FBI Hostage Rescue Team	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good, but not as exciting as I'd hoped	Special Agent Christopher Whitcomb is one of only about 200 people who have ever been part of the FBI's elite Hostage Rescue Team (HRT).  HRT is one of America's counterterroism units along with the Army's Delta Force and Navy SEAL Team Six.  <br />In this book, Special Agent Whitcomb provides a very informative and engaging look at his life in the FBI.  The reader follows him on some of his more interesting assignments doing casework out of a satellite office in Missouri and when Whitcomb feels the need to do more in his life, he takes the reader through his selection process into the HRT.  From his description, I imagine the HRT selection process to be somewhat similar to the Navy BUD/S (SEAL) selection process.  Anyone familiar with BUD/S (or if you've seen some of Hollywood's bastardized film versions like G.I. Jane), knows that the process is amazingly taxing--both physically and psychologically--and there is a very high drop out rate.  <br />Obviously, Whitcomb managed to get through selection and becomes a sniper on the HRT.  He was present and accounted for the standoff on Ruby Ridge and in Waco, Texas during the Branch Davidians crisis.  Though both situations were tense and Whitcomb manages to portray that mood in his writing, there isn't much excitement involved (for the reader).  <br />I imagine most of Whitcomb's missions are still classified and that's unfortunate.  Though Whitcomb provides his experience during some of the most famous current events of the past 15 years or so (like Ruby Ridge and Waco), there isn't much to get excited about.  With a book about an elite unit like the Hostage Rescue Team, one would expect (and presumably want) a lot of action.  Sadly, there wasn't much to speak of.  Also, I would recommend skipping the last three chapters because they don't really seem relevant to the primary function of HRT. <br />Although the book doesn't provide as much action and excitement as I would have liked, Whitcomb is a good writer and the book is a very good read.  Perhaps some of Whitcomb's more exciting missions will be declassified in the future and he can write a follow-up with some more meat to it, especially since this book was written and published prior to the tragic events of September 11, 2001.  I'd be extremely interested in reading what role HRT played immediately following 9/11 and what they are doing now.<br />Still, I would recommend this book to people interested in the FBI and especially to potential candidates to HRT.<br />Lastly, Special Agent Whitcomb if you get a chance to read this: Thank you for your service to this great country.	2003-12-22
US	41914976	R2TOSTUKWP2ZWA	0399150609	343958132	In the Company of Heroes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent, a must read	The name Mike Durant should be a familiar one.  As a member of the US Army's elite 160th SOAR (Special Operations Aviation Regiment), he was one of the world's finest helicopter pilots.  During the battle in Mogadishu, Somalia made famous by Mark Bowden's book BLACK HAWK DOWN and the movie of the same name, Chief Warrant Officer 4 Durant piloted a Black Hawk helicopter that was shot down.  <br />In this book, Durant does an excellent job of recounting that fateful day when his Black Hawk was shot down and the ensuing 11 days he spent held as a prisoner of war (POW) by the most powerful tribal faction in Somalia before his release.  Along with recounting those harrowing days in captivity, Durant provides an autobiographical look of important times and missions of his military career.<br />This book is a very fast read and an excellent one.  It would certainly help the reader to know the events and situations taking place during Operation Gothic Serpent, so I would highly recommend reading Mark Bowden's BLACK HAWK DOWN prior to reading this book.  However, knowing the circumstances of the battle nor reading Bowden's book are not really necessary to enjoying this incredible book.  Durant's POW experience is certainly a unique one and the book does a good job of relating what Durant went through.  Contrary to what you might think before reading the book, not all POWs are beaten and treated poorly; Durant makes it explicitly known that his captors treated him humanely.<br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book to any reader.  One does not need a thorough knowledge of the military or its Special Operations forces to enjoy this book (though it may help).  It is at times very moving, and there was one instance where I had to fight back tears.	2003-11-20
US	41914976	R3LO48G11ZCZK7	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good but definitely not &quot;shocking&quot;	Before this book, I read two of Dennis Lehane's previous books, &quot;A Drink Before the War&quot; (very disappointing) and &quot;Mystic River&quot; (good, but not great).  Based upon some reviews, I anticipated liking this book much more than the previous two.  I was right.<br />I liked &quot;Shutter Island&quot; much more than &quot;Mystic River&quot; but I gave them both the same scores (4 out of 5).  The only thing that kept &quot;Shutter Island&quot; from garnering a 5 was that I figured out the major &quot;mystery&quot; halfway through the book.  Frankly, I'm surprised that not too many other people seem to have caught onto what was happening.  To me, it was quite obvious.<br />Regardless, knowing the major &quot;twist&quot; didn't prevent me from enjoying the book.  Although it won't have you on the edge of your seat desperately anticipating each turn of the page, it's a fairly fast read and an enjoyable one.<br />Out of the three Lehane novels I've read thus far, this is easily his best one in my opinion (though it's quite different in style from the previous two I've read).<br />Recommended.	2003-11-17
US	41914976	R1V8X0MIVWN175	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If you've ever played blackjack, this is a must read!	This is a truly amazing story of six MIT students who beat Vegas at its own game.<br />As anybody who has ever been to Vegas knows, the ONLY game in Vegas where the player has a slight advantage (using minor card counting techniques) over the house is blackjack.  The MIT students in this book took it a few steps further to increase their advantage even more.  The research, practice, and other methods they used are quite remarkable.  It certainly helped that they were all mathematical whizzes.<br />This book is a lot more than just blackjack, though.  It gives an inside glimpse into the life of a high roller (AKA whale in gambling jargon) and even has some suspense and intrigue.  <br />This is an absolute must read for anybody who has ever gambled in their life, especially if you've ever played a hand of blackjack.  The book is a very fast read and you will find yourself turning the pages very quickly as you are enveloped in a fantasy world that only a handful of people ever get to realize.<br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2003-11-14
US	41914976	R1YIBFS60L16ZO	0671786571	531622442	The FBI	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Must Read	If you want to know about what the FBI does, this is a must read.  Ronald Kessler is an award-winning journalist and he does an excellent job of taking the reader inside the most powerful law enforcement agency on earth.  <br />Kessler was granted extraordinary access to the FBI and he does a masterful job of revealing the way the FBI works.  Forget what you see on television and in movies; this book provides a real look at this cryptic agency.<br />Some of the findings during Kessler's &quot;investigation&quot; even led to the dismissal of FBI Director William S. Sessions.<br />Though this book was published in 1993, I feel it is a must read for anybody who wants insight into the real FBI.  It is also a great book for potential FBI candidates.<br />HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2003-10-03
US	41914976	R2X0AQQBDS6SUL	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good book -- should get better after re-reads	Having never read any of Mitch Albom's other work, I was very anxious to read this book because the premise sounded very promising.<br />I like to think of this book as a journey into the unknown.  Nobody here really knows what heaven is like, and its very existence is even questioned by many.  Albom gives us a glimpse of what his heaven is like by allowing us to follow Eddie, the main character, on his journey through heaven.<br />Before Eddie's death, he was an old man who felt he had done nothing with his life.  He was plagued with the questions that a lot of us inquire of ourselves.  What have I done in my life?  Has my life been worth living?  What have I got to show for it?  Sadly, when Eddie died, he felt that his life was a miserable existence with no meaning.<br />Enter Mitch Albom's heaven.  It's an experience.  It's not really like what television, movies, or your own mind have portrayed it to be.  There aren't people lounging around in togas sipping fine wine and having a jolly old time however they please.  Albom envisions heaven as an experience at looking back at one's own life and how one has unknowingly affected and been affected by others--sometimes strangers.  In heaven, Eddie meets 5 different people who have affected his life in some important manner, though he doesn't necessarily realize it until the story unfolds.<br />To be quite frank, I was slightly disappointed in this book.  Given the premise, I was really hoping for an uplifting, somewhat spiritual book that would give me a warm fuzzy after I had finished reading it.  It didn't.  However, I honestly believe that if I let the theme of the book play around in my head for awhile, I'll appreciate the book more.  Moreoever, I look forward to reading the book again in the future (maybe in a year or so) because I think it will get better in future re-reads.<br />I recommend this book.	2003-10-03
US	41914976	RKNEC6ISXC3VZ	0385336039	305985379	Inside Delta Force: The Story of America's Elite Counterterrorist Unit	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good, but not quite what I expected	...  The book itself is a pretty fast read and Haney shares some interesting insights into his life as a Delta operator.  One thing that struck me was my perception that Haney came across as somewhat egotistical and arrogant.  It shocked me because most &quot;elite&quot; soldiers are humble in real life and don't show off their bravado.  Haney seemed to be patting himself on the back a lot.  Obviously, he was a very good soldier or he would never have become a Ranger and then a Delta operator and retire as a Command Sergeant Major, but I expected him to be a bit more humble.  Maybe my perception is wrong, though.<br />One of the things that I liked most about the book is that Haney wasn't afraid to voice his thoughts about operations that he participated in and the possible secret motivations that the US government or CIA had.  Haney was a soldier who followed orders, but in his book he isn't afraid to speak his mind when he wonders aloud whether or not some of his operations were to cover up CIA foul-ups.  <br />I wish Haney would have included more stories of some his operations, though.  He included some operations of some of his fellow operators, but couldn't he have replaced those with some of his own?  Although he served in Delta for 8 years, the inclusion of stories about other operators instead of his own stories led me to believe that maybe Haney's Delta life wasn't worth sharing.  Most likely, though, is that those missions are still classified and he knows better than to publish those stories in his book.<br />This book is a good read and there aren't many books that give the public insight into one of America's premiere counterterrorist units (the FBI Hostage Rescue Team and Navy SEAL Team Six are others).  I recommend this book and also recommend the aforementioned book by Charlie Beckwith, the founder of Delta.  Beckwith's book mainly deals with the history of Delta and how it started as the US version of the British Special Air Service.  Both books are good reads to potential Delta candidates and anybody else interested in what these brave men do for our country.  <br />Recommended.	2003-08-21
US	41914976	R30ZJK3BWUGPLG	015100093X	733601761	A Drink Before the War	Books	2	8	12	N	N	I guess I'm in the minority....	....because I didn't really care for this book.  Although it's a somewhat fast read, it felt like it took forever to get through it because the story was unoriginal and uninteresting.<br />Dennis Lehane knows how to write a good sentence, but all of those sentences didn't amount to much in this book.  Honestly, I thought the story was quite boring and although I desperately wanted to get into it, I couldn't.  The story was plodding and the book was filled with so much extra filler that it seemingly could have been cut in half.<br />Cliches and stereotypes abound and it felt like Lehane used them to makeup for his lack of &quot;street&quot; knowledge.  It was like watching a poorly made TV show or a made-for-TV movie on USA.<br />I'm forced to scratch my head to figure out why so many people have favorable reviews for this book.  I thought it was pedestrian and bland.	2003-08-15
US	41914976	R2MEALM76OYHJ1	044651506X	348227423	Plum Island	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Entertaining read	This was a very entertaining read.  Admittedly, the first half of the book was slow and kind of dragged along, but the second half was really good and the last 100 pages or so was great.<br />The main character and narrator, Detective John Corey, was a great character.  I thoroughly enjoyed his wit and found him to be a very likeable and humanistic character.  The other main characters in the book were also likeable (except the villain(s), of course).  <br />Corey is drawn into a homicide case while taking time off from the NYPD after having been shot in the line of duty.  Initially deciding to lend a hand as a favor to a friend and because he was an acquaitance of the victims--two scientists from the biological research facility Plum Island--the investigation soon becomes personal as he's drawn deeper into the investigation.<br />As this is my first Nelson DeMille novel, I don't know if this book is characteristic of his other novels, but if this book is indicative of his other works, I'm looking forward to reading them.<br />For an entertaining (boat)ride on the high seas, I definitely recommend this book.	2003-08-08
US	41914976	R2D5ZS1MTOSB6J	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	4	0	0	N	N	3 1/2 stars rounded up to 4	This was a decent book, but everything seemed a little too neat.  A little too Hollywood.<br />The story started off great and had me engaged from the beginning.  Too bad things didn't go quite so well from there.<br />It was a bit hard suspending belief at the typical cliches in the book.  Moreover, drawing from my own personal experience, I can say without a doubt that one of the plot points in the book was ridiculous.  I don't care to really elaborate on that, but just trust me. ;)<br />From a positive viewpoint, though, the book was a fast read and I was anxious to get to the end.  Unfortunately, it was a good story that probably would have been better with a little more research and a little less Hollywood.  Still, if you're looking for a fun read--which, admittedly, it was--this is a decent book.	2003-08-07
US	41914976	R1S266XC8UC3K9	0765301881	799894693	More Than Courage (Coyle, Harold)	Books	1	13	16	N	N	Skip it	I literally could not finish this book; I stopped after exactly 100 pages.  <br />There were too many technical flaws that anybody familiar with the US military and its special operations forces would be able to point out.  I felt like I was reading a Hollywood manuscript...that's how technically inaccurate it was.  <br />Sorry, but when it comes to military books, suspension of belief is not in my vernacular.  The author obviously did very little research in writing this book.  His editor should also be ashamed as I found a couple of proofreading errors within the 100 pages that I read.<br />Although I feel bad for giving this book a review without even having read the whole book, I cannot bring myself to read a book on military fiction that is technically inaccurate with proofreading errors.<br />I suggest the author research his material better next time.	2003-08-01
US	41914976	R2KC26OMDSRAL	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A slight letdown	This is my first Dennis Lehane book; a good read, but slightly disappointing.<br />The book revolves around the lives of 3 main characters.  Three characters who were childhood friends and are now brought together 25 years later because of a murder of one of the character's daughters.<br />This clearly isn't a mystery book (and to be fair, I don't think it purports to be), as the climax of the book isn't the discovery of who committed the murder and the motive behind the murder.  Instead, the climax is something else entirely.  Admittedly, the unveiling of the crime was a pretty big letdown.  Though plausible, it seemed somewhat absurd and hastily thrown together.  Luckily, the *real* climax was much better.<br />Lehane did a great job in making me feel like I could see the setting in my mind.  Overcast, gloomy, wet, and depressing.  I felt like I knew the characters.  Every city and town in American must have people like that.  The story, though supposedly revolving around this murder, is more a character study of the three main characters and the people in their lives.<br />Since this is my first Lehane book, I can't compare it to his other work.  And although, I'm giving the book 4 stars, I don't know if I would really recommend this book.  It's sort of depressing and isn't the real psychological thriller as I was led to believe because there aren't many twists--if any--and the climax, though good, is somewhat predictable.  However, Lehane has a good way with words and made me feel like I was in the setting of the book feeling as gloomy as the weather there.	2003-07-31
US	41914976	RI3NGFHIF4OZ9	0440222451	915649406	Immediate Action: The Explosive True Story of the Toughest--and Most Highly Secretive--Strike Forc e in the World	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A bit disappointing	I must say that I was disappointed with this book.<br />First of all, there isn't enough detail to warrant the tagline &quot;The controversial book the British Government tried to suppress!&quot;  Honestly, I have no idea why the British government would not want this book published--it's not like Andy McNab detailed out the whole SAS selection process or gave away classified information (at least not from my point of view).<br />Another tagline on the cover of the book that has me scratching my head is &quot;The explosive true story of the toughest and most highly secretive strike force in the world&quot;.  This book was hardly explosive, in my opinion.  In fact, I was really disappointed with the lack of action in the book.  With the two taglines on the book, I expected McNab to detail many of his classified operations he took part in while serving with the SAS.  Instead, the book reads almost like an autobiography, telling of McNab's first experience with death as a young boy and how he eventually joined the army to forego jail time.  McNab doesn't even get into the Regiment (SAS' vernacular for the SAS) until nearly halfway through the book.<br />Another thing that bothered me with the book is that McNab bounces around when writing.  I had to re-read passages several times to figure out what he was talking about because he inexplicably jumped from one scenario to another.  It was difficult to follow at times.<br />The book is not totally without merit, though.  It was at times entertaining and offered a better perspective into the SAS than I already had.  I can't say that I know that much more about the SAS than what I already knew, but it did offer some new bits of information.  <br />I wish I could definitively recommend this book, but I can't.  To me, it lacked substance and wasn't as exciting or action-packed as I hoped it would be.  Others have seemed to find it a good read, though.	2003-07-30
US	41914976	R1LEHL8YC3S1GE	0786232919	30029813	1st to Die: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Pretty good read	I'm not very well read (though I'm trying to change that) and this is the first James Patterson novel I've read.  I thought it was a good, not spectacular, effort.<br />I must say that I got goose bumps on one or two occasions while reading the book...which I think is a good thing.  Patterson isn't overly detailed in his writing, so the reading goes along quite smoothly and briskly.  I love the fact that the chapters are short--it gives the illusion that the reader is reading at a brisk pace and it also allows for quick spurts of reading if you don't have huge chunks of time reserved for reading.  For me, though, I didn't put the book down too often.<br />I think readers--especially females--will find the concept of empowered females refreshing, though I'm only speculating since I'm not a female. :)  <br />The book takes some interesting twists all the way until the end.  I can't say that I'm totally satisfied with the motive(s) behind the killings, but that doesn't really detract me from enjoying this book and recommending it.	2003-07-30
US	41914976	R2QA59MZ01ELUL	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another great Dan Brown novel!	This is my 2nd foray into the world of Robert Langdon, Dan Brown's reoccurring Harvard symbologist.  Ironically, this is Langdon's first appearance, his 2nd being &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, which I read first.<br />Perhaps because I read &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; first, I thought it was a bit better than &quot;Angels &amp; Demons&quot;.  Or perhaps it's because &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; allowed me to do a bit of sleuthing on my own and presented a challenging array of puzzles--a couple of which I was proud to solve.  No matter, &quot;Angels &amp; Demons&quot; itself is an excellent piece of work.<br />Again, as in &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, the reader is very aware that Dan Brown has put in an enormous amount of research and effort into writing this amazing book.  The lines between fiction and non-fiction are blurred as many of the details of the book revolve around true things.  <br />I do not want to spoil the book for future readers, so I will give a very basic overview of the book.  Leonardo Vetra, a leading scientist at CERN (the real-life world's largest particle physics center) has been killed and branded with a horrible ancient symbol....an ambigram (a word that reads the same upside down as rightside up) of the word ILLUMINATI, an ancient foe of the Catholic Church.  Perhaps more disturbing is that Vetra had discovered a way to actually create antimatter, the perfect energy source.  Depending upon its use, however, it could either be the most efficient energy source (a droplet could fuel New York City for an entire day) or for a means of mass destruction (a single gram has enough destruction as a 20 kiloton nuclear bomb--like that used on Hiroshima).  Moreover, antimatter is extremely unstable and if it comes into contact with anything, even air, it will annihilate.  Again, antimatter is a real thing, not fiction.<br />What do the Illuminati, Catholic Church, CERN, and antimatter have to do with each other?  You will have to read the book tofind out.  <br />Dan Brown provides a fast-paced read and an enlightening view of art, history, and faith (though I would not consider this a religious book by any means...don't read it if you're looking for a religious experience).  Brown has thoroughly researched his material in order to write a thrilling book of action, mystery, and suspense.  The most amazing thing is though the plot is unlikely, it is thoroughly believable because much of the information contained in the book is true.<br />I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book.	2003-07-23
US	41914976	RG8OTC6XPT01F	0440218802	371573172	Bravo Two Zero: The Harrowing True Story of a Special Forces Patrol Behind the Lines in Iraq	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Amazing story of survival	The first time I heard about this story was from a History Channel special.  Needless to say, I was intrigued.  A few months later I saw the movie.  I didn't want to do myself an injustice and not read the book that the TV special and movie were based upon.<br />Sergeant Andy McNab, was the commander of an 8-man British SAS (Special Air Service) squad charged with doing reconnaissance of a main supply road and to destroy SCUDs deep behind enemy lines in Iraq during the Gulf War.  The SAS is one Britain's elite military groups similar to the US Navy SEALs or Army Delta Force.  The mission quickly went sour and the entire squad was compromised.  <br />This book details the escape and evasion of the 8-man squad (from McNab's point of view, obviously) and the eventual capture of half of the squad.  One man managed to trek over 100 miles to the safety of the Syrian border.  Three men did not escape with their lives.  The four men that were captured were brutally tortured and beaten.  It's amazing that these four weren't killed while held captive.  <br />At times throughout the book I found myself wincing from the things that were done to McNab (and his squad members) while a prisoner of war (POW).  I've never thought that being a POW would ever be a walk in the park, but I was a little shocked and appalled at some of the things that McNab had to endure.  I also laughed at some of the things McNab had to say with his cheeky, British humor.  Some of the vocabulary and phrases may be a little difficult to decipher, but there's a glossary in the back of the book and a lot of things can be made clear from the context.<br />There isn't a whole lot of action in the traditional sense of military books (shooting and things blowing up everywhere), but this book is definitely not boring.  Read this book, if for no other reason than to get a glimpse of how Allied POWs were treated during the Gulf War.  This book is the dog's bollocks; I highly recommend it. :)	2003-07-19
US	41914976	R3KMRHGBUC42KV	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Must Read	Black Hawk Down is one of my favorite movies--I've seen it a number of times--but I felt that I was doing it an injustice without having read the book.  The book is obviously more accurate and offers more information. <br />While reading the book, I was surprised to find myself thinking how poorly the mission seemed to have been planned (for contingencies, anyway) and the lack of discipline on the part of some of the Rangers. I was also surprised that I thought how cowardly some of the Rangers seemed to be. I always scoff when somebody says that the Rangers--or even Airborne--are the Army's elite soldiers (after all, my dad was a Special Forces Green Beret and the Army also has the Delta Force), but I was shocked at some of the actions (or inactions) of some of the Rangers. (The Rangers, Special Forces, and Delta all are unique in their own right and serve vastly different functions within the Army; I'm not saying that the Rangers are not an elite unit. However, I do not consider them the Army's preeminent elite unit.) Then again, war is a terrible thing and since I've never been in a firefight, I suspect that at times soldiers--even those as disciplined as Rangers--are apt to do things which at times may seem cowardly or irrational. I'm in no position to judge. My thoughts do not diminish, however, the immense courage that these men--Delta Force, Rangers, Navy SEALs, Night Stalkers, and Air Force PJs and CCTs--showed in the heat of battle. Men who serve our country with distinction and honor. I salute them and offer my thanks. With all that said, I came away with an even deeper appreciation and respect (which was already quite high) for the Rangers than I had prior to reading the book. The book also reinforced my already high esteem of Delta Force operators.<br />Mark Bowden seems to have painstakingly put together as accurate a depiction of battle as you will ever read.  The accounts in the book come first hand from recorded audio and video from the battle as wellas numerous interviews of the combatants--US soldiers and Somalians. The book offers a surprisingly human aspect to war and shows that brave men do not necessarily have to be fearless. This book is required reading at the US Army Command and General Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas and has received several honors from the US Marine Corps.  Many within the Pentagon and US military have praised Bowden for writing the book. <br />Mark Bowden wrote a terrific book and I'm glad that I read it. Do yourself a favor and read it too.	2003-07-15
US	41914976	R2P9O9HVGY7Q2U	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Truly great!	First off, I consider myself fairly well educated, though I do not consider myself very well read.  That said, take my review with a grain of salt, if you must.<br />I serendipitously came across the book on an internet site forum where people were discussing some recent books.  There, I found a webquest ... created by Dan Brown, the author.  Loving a good challenge, I was immediately drawn into the quest and after completing it, I decided that if the book was as fun as the quest, I should look into it.<br />I purchased the book in the afternoon and when I got home, I did not stop reading it except to eat dinner, go to the gym, and shower.  I could not tear myself away from the book!<br />I will not go into much detail as to the plot of the book as I would hate to spoil any surprises for future readers, but I will say that the book was an amazing contrast to some of our most popular beliefs.  I don't feel the need to discuss my religious affiliation, but I will say that I was amazed and intrigued by the information set forth in Dan Brown's book.  I truly did not know where fiction and non-fiction separated.  Everything in the book seemed so real that if somebody told me this book was pure fiction (which I know it isn't), I would gasp in utter shock.  The length that Brown went through to research the information in this book is phenomenal.<br />As the title of the book indicates--and if you go to the book's website that I mentioned--you will get a general feel for what the book entails.  I feel I am not spoiling anything by letting you know that there are some codes in the book which require a bit of sleuthing and deciphering.  I was very impressed and proud of myself when I read the text and was able to decipher some of the codes.  Finally, a book that had my wheels turning!<br />Like I stated at the beginning of my review, I do not consider myself very well read.  On the rare occasion that I do read a book, my usual fare is books about the military, especially military special forces.  Noting this, I always roll my eyes when I hear anybody proclaim anything \\"the best ever\\"--especially when their opinion is in stark contrast to my own.  Therefore, I am somewhat sheepish to proclaim this the best book I have ever read, though if prodded, I will declare it so.<br />I give this book my HIGEST RECOMMENDATION (as if I'm some sort of authority).  I cannot see how anybody could be disappointed with this work.<br />I am eager to read some of Dan Brown's other work now, thanks to this fabulous book--especially \\"Angels and Demons\\".ilitary special forces.  Noting this, I always roll my eyes when I hear anybody proclaim anything \\"the best ever\\"--especially when their opinion is in stark contrast to my own.  Therefore, I am somewhat sheepish to proclaim this the best book I have ever read, though if prodded, I will declare it so.  <br />I give this book my HIGEST RECOMMENDATION (as if I'm some sort of authority).  I cannot see how anybody could be disappointed with this work.<br />I am eager to read some of Dan Brown's other work now, thanks to this fabulous book--especially \\"Angels and Demons\\".	2003-07-12
US	41914976	R3400HZG7FBEYZ	1400046955	229997903	The Warrior Elite: The Forging of SEAL Class 228	Books	5	6	6	N	N	EXCELLENT!	This is absolutely the best book on BUD/S (Basic Underwater Demolitions/SEAL) Training that I have ever read.  Most of the SEAL training you hear about is the infamous Hell Week.  This book does an excellent job of showing you that Hell Week is merely a speed bump in a SEAL's training.  <br />Retired Captain Dick Couch is a 1967 graduate of the US Naval Academy and Honorman of BUD/S Class 45.  In this book, he takes the reader through all six months and three phases of BUD/S.  Due to training requirements, he isn't really allowed to fraternize with the BUD/S trainees, but he does a good job of portraying some of the students of Class 228.  So much so, in fact, that I found myself getting a bit choked up reading about their graduation ceremony.  It felt like I was there, sitting proudly in the audience as I watched a family member or friend  graduating from BUD/S.<br />It's amazing that you learn that the average SEAL is not a hulking mass of muscle like you would be apt to think.  Many are under 6 feet tall and weigh in the area of 160-170 pounds.  Certainly not the stereotypical Rambo-like visage one would expect (note: Rambo was a Green Beret, not a SEAL; you will also find out through other reading that most Green Berets are not like Rambo, either).  One learns that what separates these elite men from others who fail the BUD/S course is heart, will, and determination.  Strength, stamina, and endurance are important, but the strongest and fastest do not always make it.  It is the heart of these warriors that stands above others.<br />Couch takes it a step further and touches upon post BUD/S training, the future of Navy SEALs and their possible role in the war on terrorism, following the 9/11 tragedies.  <br />He mentions in this book that he is currently working on a new SEAL book scheduled for release in the spring of 2004.  \\"It follows the path of a BUD/S graduate as he earns his SEAL qualification and prepares for operational deployment with his SEAL platoon.As with 'The Warrior Elite', [he is] following a group of men through their advanced SEAL training--the training BUD/S graduates must successfully complete before they are awarded their Naval Special Warfare Insignia, the Trident...[he is] also oberserving SEAL platoons and SEAL teams preparing for operational deployment.\\"  I can't wait for this new book! <br />I HIGHLY recommend this book to potential SEAL candidates and anyone interested in the training of this elite fighting force.	2003-07-10
US	41914976	R2KS5QET413KBP	0425103552	668211791	Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A true legend	Carlos Hathcock was, at one time, the best rifleman in the US...possibly the world.  In 1965, he won the Wimbledon Cup as the 1000-Yard National High-Power Rifle Champion, beating 2600 competitors from across the nation.  Lucky for us, he was on our side. ;)<br />Gunnery Sergeant Hathcock helped sell to the US Marine Corps, the idea of a scout/sniper who could stalk his prey and take out an important target (i.e., high-ranking officer) from a great distance (Hathcock once took out a man from 2500 yards using an M-2 .50 caliber machine gun mounted with his Unertl sniper scope).  This book, which details his amazing exploits, shows us why the sniper is perhaps the most dangerous man on the battlefield.  Stalking stealthily to a vantage point, a well-trained sniper can control the battlefield with well-placed shots.  These shots not only kill the enemy, but they strike fear into the remaining enemy who have not been shot and degrades their morale.  <br />Charles Henderson does a good job of re-creating scenarios that Hathcock went through.  I don't want to spoil any of Hathcock's exploits, but there are a few that are so incredible that they are nearly unbelievable.  It seemed Hathcock was almost born with a rifle and scope when he came out of his mother's womb.  His knowledge of the jungle that allows his stealthy movement and cover is just as impressive, if not more.<br />Hathcock's 93 confirmed kills is an exceptional record.  What's just as amazing is that he probably had many more that went unconfirmed.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the stealthy art of sniping.  The book is an easy read and tells an amazing story of an amazing man.	2003-07-07
US	41914976	R2VOYJHN6YCRPL	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pretty good start	I just finished this book and must say that it wasn't as good as I thought or hoped it would be.  It was still good enough to garner a 3 star vote, but it seemed lacking something.<br />Firstly, I don't necessarily agree that this is an \\"R-rated version of Buffy\\" like the back of the book proclaims.  I've seen a lot of episodes of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and I think Anita Blake to Buffy Sommers is a poor comparison.  The only thing they have in common is that they are both young females (though Buffy is younger than Anita's 24 years) and they both kill vampires.  Buffy does it because she is chosen to do so but Anita does it because it's her job and she gets paid for it.  The comparisons end there.  Anita lacks the air of invincibility that Buffy has and thus she seems more human, which is ironic because the book hints that she may not be totally human now or in the future.  Anita displays vulnerabilities that Buffy never showed...at least not until the last couple seasons of her TV show.<br />I enjoyed the story itself but I would have liked more backstory.  Laurell Hamilton fails to tell us much about Anita Blake and her background.  How she got into the business that she's in.  Why she's chosen to be an \\"animator\\".  Stories about all of her scars (which we are to assume has come from fighting vampires and other supernatural creatures).<br />Hamilton's style of writing is somewhat engaging and witty.  I hate to say so, but I think the author thinks she's more witty than others may think of her.  To be fair, I liked her style and her tone, but I don't know if others will.  Moreover, I'm not sure I like the fact that Hamilton seems to leave out a lot of details about some characters, places, and events.  I don't know if it's because she knew she was going to write more books in this series or if she didn't want to spend time filling the reader in.  I'll give her the benefit of the doubt and hope that it's the former.<br />I bought the first four books of this series as a set because I anticipated liking this series.  This first book was decent, but it didn't give me everything I wanted.  I hope the next few books do a better job of expanding upon Anita Blake's background and making me like her character more.	2003-07-04
US	41914976	R1ITJPSO37JF81	0380809397	32158399	Delta Force: The Army's Elite Counterterrorist Unit	Books	5	119	120	N	N	Informative and engaging	This book was very difficult to put down once I started reading it.  Beckwith has a way with words that makes it seem like he's sitting next to you telling you a story.  While reading the book, I felt like I knew Charlie Beckwith and his way of thinking--that's how much personality he put into this book.<br />1st Special Forces Operational Detachment--Delta (SFOD-D) is the military's formal name for Delta Force.  Delta is perhaps America's foremost elite counterterrorist unit along with the FBI's Hostage Rescue Team (HRT) and Navy SEAL Team Six.  Beckwith created Delta Force after spending a year with the British Special Air Service (SAS) and seeing how the US had a void that a unit like the SAS could fill.  Thus, Delta was formed with the SAS in mind.<br />A word of caution to people who are considering reading this book.  The book tells of how Delta Force was formed...from its beginnings as a US version of the British SAS to its failed first mission freeing the hostages in the Iran.  If you're looking for something on what Delta Force currently does and how its operators are currently trained or selected, this isn't the book for you.  Beckwith tells us how the first Delta operators were trained and selected, but that selection process has probably changed some by now.  This book is more a detailed history on the formation of the Delta Force, and not a book on its current engagements and operations (which are most likely classified anyway).<br />I HIGHLY recommend this book.	2003-07-02
US	41914976	R2NIGS9Z6YU729	0440220467	740652799	The Commandos: The Inside Story of America's Secret Soldiers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book!	I read this book a few years ago and would wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone intersted in the US Special Forces.  <br />Douglas Waller puts you right into the heart of the action as if you were right there standing side by side America's elite soldiers.  <br />The prologue is a great introduction to the book and recalls a botched Special Forces (Green Beret) mission during Desert Storm that--instead of resulting in catastrophe--showed how brightly a compromised A-Team shined against incredible odds.<br />The rest of the book is just as good.  This is one of the best books I've read on US Special Forces.  Read it now!	2003-06-25
US	41914976	R25A3RXXJ1MFDI	0399147837	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside the Special Forces (Study in Command)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Very in-depth and detailed	I enjoyed this book, but I'm not so sure I would recommend it to the casual reader.  Clancy gets very detailed in the book and, at times, too much emphasis is placed on hammering out every little detail at the sacrifice of easy and interesting reading.  <br />&quot;Shadow Warriors&quot; gives a good in-depth look at US Special Forces and the career of retired General Carl Stiner.  <br />Recommended for those who really want to get deep inside the Special Forces (probably deeper than you really want to go).  Not recommended if you're looking for light reading and edge-of-the-seat page-turning.	2003-06-25
US	41914976	R1QTX4TTEA6N9I	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great read	I read this book a few years ago when it came out and I thought it was a great read.  To be honest, this was the first Tom Clancy novel that I had ever read and I was not disappointed.  Because of this, however, I do not have a point of reference to compare to any of his other fiction work.<br />Clancy is a great story teller and the plot of the book was interesting and creative.  For me, it was a difficult book to put down and I found myself constantly wanting to read further (which is unusual for me). :P  Highly recommended.	2003-06-25
US	41914976	R3D7OIR32MI6G7	0449907201	891115956	Long Range Patrol: A Novel of Vietnam	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Could have been better	...<br />I found this book easy to read and an interesting novel on the Vietnam War.  However, for a book set during the war in Vietnam, there is very little \\"war\\" in the book.  <br />The book revolves around Lt. Jim Hollister and his experiences during his tour in Vietnam.  Foley does a good job of humanizing Hollister's character and taking us into the mind of what a junior officer had to go through during the war.  However, I was severely disappointed with the lack of \\"action\\" in the book.  I was shocked that as a Ranger who served in Vietnam, Foley put very little action in his book.<br />The reason he might have left us desiring more action is that at the end of the book he hints that Hollister is going to go back to Vietnam for another tour ...I haven't read it yet, but apparently Foley's next book with this character, \\"Take Back the Night\\" has Hollister back in Vietnam and hopefully with a lot more action.<br />Foley's writing style is very easy to follow and he writes with such military detail that you know he must have served as a Ranger in Vietnam.  <br />I believe this is Dennis Foley's first novel, and it's a pretty good one.  Personally, I would have liked some more action but it's still a good book nonetheless.	2003-06-25
US	41914976	R6FMD3CFO5BC7	0306811650	91219367	U.S. Special Forces: A Guide to America's Special Operations Units-The World's Most Elite Fighting Force	Books	3	39	40	N	N	Kind of like a &quot;Special Forces for Dummies&quot;	I would recommend this book to people who do not have a very good understanding of US Special Forces.  For those of us who have a deeper knowledge of the Special Forces that our country employs, I would not recommend this book.<br />The book reads well and includes chapters on the Army Rangers, Navy SEALs, Air Force Special Operations (Combat Controllers and Pararescue Jumpers), Army Special Forces (Green Berets), Delta Force, Marine Force Recon, Army Airborne, Army 10th Mountain Division, Coast Guard Special Operations, and CIA Paramilitary Forces.  <br />The inclusion of the Coast Guard &quot;Special Operations&quot; is a bit suspect as a special operations group, but that chapter is enlightening and informative.<br />The book does not go into very much detail on any of the special operations forces so I would only recommend this book to someone who wants a very general overview.  <br />One of the major gripes that I had with the book (besides being overly simplistic) is on page 188.  In the chapter about the 10th Mountain Division, the book mentions how a &quot;young Lieutenant Bob Dole was badly wounded.  After a couple years in a hospital he would go on to be vice president of the United States...&quot;  Umm, am I missing something here or was I asleep when Bob Dole was the Vice President?<br />Anyway, if you are a stranger to the world of US Special Forces, this is a decent book to get started.  However, if one already has a pretty decent grasp of the subject, I would recommend looking elsewhere.	2003-06-03
