US	41977373	R346JIC8F9MMGF	0449214923	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	1	16	48	N	N	One HUGE problem mars this book	Hill offers the formula for success from Andrew Carnegie, giving suggestion,planning, decision making and other formula for becoming a success in buisness or anything you want to attempt.  However, I was always troubled by ruthless buisness cut throats and what they were probably thinking to justify their practices.  Where did that come from?  Could it be they are just greedy?  It's a little more complex than that.  Since this seems to be the \\"Bible\\" for most buisness people,I decided to read the book.  I found what I was looking for.  It's in the section on the \\"six ghosts of fear.\\"  Here we have the answer on the fear of death.  According to old Carnegie,death is nothing more than sleep.  Well, that answers why so many buisness people are such cut throats.  Old Andy has soothed their conscience.  He gives them the excuse to be as greedy as Midas, as ruthless as Al Capone and as free of justice for their evil deeds as if nothing had ever happened.  Who cares about justice when you can get away with all the evil you want and haul your money bags to the bank?  While you are there you can laugh at all the stupid people who believe in a law of cosmic justice and a just God.  But don't let reason and common sense stop you from being ruthless.  Heck no.  Take your chances with old Andy.	2005-09-06
US	41977373	R3J6WX9YFPU3I2	0060185759	116892054	Roget's International Thesaurus, Indexed, Sixth Edition Revised & Updated	Books	3	7	24	N	N	The Rogets college thesaurus is far better	Although the reviews glow on this page,I don't agree. The Rogets in dictionary form is much better and easier to use.  The problem with putting a thesaurus in categories is how do you know these categories are complete?  Since an infinite number of categories is possible this thesaurus would be of limited value.  A far better idea is to include it in dictionary form.  This way you can look up the word you want and cross reference as much as you please.  If you don't know the word then browse through the book,or better yet read it.  You will become familiar with it and your vocabulary will be astounding.  This takes more work, but hard work is more rewarding.	2005-05-19
US	41977373	R2IB5BRTOVBL8S	1931882312	211034403	Suns of God: Krishna, Buddha and Christ Unveiled	Books	1	23	119	N	N	No straight thinking person can take this book seriously.	Here we have Acharya S extending her thesis that not only is Christ a myth, but so are Krishna and Buddha.  In over 500 pages of illogic and false conclusions, she makes a very unconvincing case.  Her main argument is that conspirators using the star worship of the ancients who personalized the stars and planets into \\"gods\\", wove a plot to ensnare all of us.  Why?  Power and profit.  Right.  It would take a multi volume set to refute all the errors in this book. I will mention a few.  Are we seriously supposed to believe that conspirators went running around for hundreds if not thousands of years, making all of this up and planting evidence?  She says that its incredible that Buddha, Christ and Krishna could work the miracles they did.  Why?  Is anything impossible to God?  Isn't it true that the Hindus believe that Buddha is an avatar of God?  As for the different religions who said that God couldn't have founded them all?  This is the thesis of a far more logical book called the Perennial Philosophy by A. Huxley. Although I tried hard to read through Suns of God it is just too crazy.  As terrible as this book is the real horror is the positive reviews of it.	2005-02-22
US	41977373	R13U697EPO47BD	1585422509	611920940	The Secret Teachings of All Ages (Reader's Edition)	Books	3	28	39	N	N	This could be a better book...	Sure this book is a classic.  I gave this book three stars because this could be a better book.  Although the full text is presented in this edition,most of the pictures and illustrations are missing.  It's claimed that most of the pictures and illustrations are not the most important ones, then why put them in the other editions?  Sounds like the buyer is being short changed.  Hall says in the title that these are secret teachings.  It's not secret, because all of this knowledge is available in books if you look hard enough.  However, he does a brilliant job of putting all this information together and the buyer is getting a good deal.  The truth is that all secret knowledge is already in books and openly available.  It's true that the ancient sages would be irresponsible in putting this knowledge explicitly out in the open.  It could be used by evil people to work incredible destruction.  The knowledge though had to be transmitted or it would be lost.  How then is the knowledge open to the worthy and hidden from the unworthy?  Hall gives the clue in the chapter on Shakespeare.  That is by constantly rereading and studying the murky passages and others in occult books, the understanding will open up and the secrets revealed.  This is the master key to using other cryptograms as well.  In India, the ancient sages had students of yoga reread and study well known yoga texts such as the yoga sutras of Pantajali.  Why?  To discover the secrets and inner meanings of the texts. The goal of the ancient mysteries is for man to save himself and reveal the mysteries of life.  This could not be accomplished if the knowledge had no way to be known.  The occult has genuine teachings, but it also has many frauds and con artists.  They couldn't care less about the occult, but they care about your money.  Hall isn't lying when he says these are secret teachings. They are not secret on the surface meaning, but they are in the depths of the knowledge revealed only by study.	2004-07-07
US	41977373	R2ACBJF9H5HGJP	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	1	37	98	N	N	A near worthless book	Amazing how money and success can blind so many people to the truth as shown in these sparkling reviews.  In this book, King goes on about his childhood, early victories in writing and on and on.  He then gives some advice on writing which I found to be completely false.  He writes that unless you are a &quot;born writer&quot; you can become a good one with a lot of hard work, but forget about being a great one.  Complete and utter garbage.  Its falling for lies like this that many people think that great writing is something akin to witchcraft.  It is not.  Common sense tells you that if writers are working as hard as they claim, they should be getting better all the time.  They are not because their claim to hard work is false.  Then of course you have writers like King who imply that you have to be touched by the &quot;muse&quot; to be successful. This leaves the would be writer confused on what is going on.  If he takes his eye off of the star of success and lays it on the truth, it will all become clear.  I am not impressed by Kings fiction and even less by this book.  He is not a master and far from a genius.  He had the gall to imply that Brams Stoker's masterwork Dracula is the work of a hack!  That should tell you something about his own works.  If you want to learn to write learn from the true masters like Stoker, Wells, Faulkner and Jones.  Read and study their books carefully and write a lot and one day you will be among the best.  As for Kings books... forget it.	2004-06-21
US	41977373	R26QO9PLF7HWKH	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	1	11	79	N	N	Atheism: the case against reason.	Here in this poorly argued book is the reason why most people are theists.  I have never come across more foolish arguments for not believing in God, than this book.  Here is a sampling of some of the &quot;brilliant&quot; reasoning. Using twisted definitions, Smith comes to the conclusion that the word &quot;God&quot; is something without meaning.  Since it has no meaning, then from this we can say that God doesn't exist.  To most people the word &quot;God&quot; means an all knowing, all powerful being.  Where is the lack of meaning in this?  The only thing that has no meaning is a contradiction and Smiths book is loaded with them. Using Smiths circus act of defining things into absurdity, anything can become incoherent.  Take another of his &quot;arguments&quot;.  For a thing to have meaning it must have a limit.  So words like &quot;God&quot;, &quot;limitless&quot;, and all other words must be inherent contradictions. Publishers of dictionaries, debates about Gods existence, Aristotle, and Plato have been wrong all these years when they wrote about God, the eternal and the infinite.  How could such philosophers have known about &quot;linguistic definitions&quot; that Smith uses?  We live in intresting times... How could they have known that the word &quot;God&quot; is really a contradiction?  If the word &quot;God&quot; is meaningless then how is it possible for Smith to use it?  If something has no meaning then it is absurd on its face.  It is nothing.  So all throughout the book Smith is arguing against a non existant God.  To think that one would spend his time writing and arguing on nothing and all these reviewers praising a book about nothing makes me fear for the world.	2004-04-21
US	41977373	R2EOCUFW6V767L	0932813747	48092962	The Christ Conspiracy: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	1	28	70	N	N	pure bunk	Its intresting to read some of the reviews here.  I bought and read this book.  I wish I hadn't.  It's a rule with me, to look at objections to a claim to get at  truth, even if its tripe presented in this \\"scholarly\\" book.  Acharyas claim as presented in this book is that Christ and christianity was made up as a state religion by conspirators to gain control.  To do this the conspirators put together the supposed divine births, deaths and resurrections of the pagan gods and melded it all into the new god:Jesus Christ.  The church fathers knew about these gods long ago and had an explanation for it.  A verse taken from the Bible says; \\"All the gods of the pagans are devils.\\"  Taking their clue from this the church fathers had an easy explanation for zeus, saturn, athena and the rest of the gods.  Sound farfetched?  Lets see.  Is it more absurd to believe that God created the world,inspired the bible and that devils were behind the pagan gods?  Or is it more absurd to believe that the pagans made up the gods for no good reason and that the old and new testament were made up by conspirators to control humanity?  Sounds like God and the Bible are genuine and that a lot of people have been duped by a satanic con game.  By all means read the book to get the other sides story... weak as it is. But read it with a large dose of salt.	2004-03-11
US	41977373	RNGFLPRNO6FPD	B00005WRNH	563123301	The screwing of the average man	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Slavery in its latest reincarnation	Too bad Hapgoods masterpiece is out of print.  Maybe someone will have the guts to reprint this classic.  Why?  Because this is one of the few books that prints the unstained truth.  Its a brutal truth too.  The subtitle of this book is how the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.  Hapgood shows how corporations,lawyers,colleges, and the rest get us to pay for unneeded services and products.  By so doing they keep the average man tied down to slavery.  For instance, he shows that most of the courses you take in college are unnecessary.  So why take them?  To make money for the state and the people working in the colleges.  Theres very little difference he writes, between automobiles, so why are some so expensive?  Because the auto industry wants you to pay more for the glamorous image.  Exactly.  Image with little or no substance, while your hard earned money goes to the rich.  You get screwed.  Maybe this is where conspiracy theorists get their ideas that cancer was cured long ago, or that engines were made that could run on water.  They are hidden, because the new slave holders would lose profits from existing products.  Gas shortages are nothing new either.  They were around since the 1940s.  Intresting how the prices never go down when the supply comes back to &quot;normal&quot;.  Slavery has never gone away.  Its been updated.  Your not a house slave like in the old days. Now your a slave to corporations and propaganda, which brainwash you with ideas of elusive happiness, and keeping up with the Joneses.  Think that after death there is going to be justice?  Don't be so sure.  He writes that the hindu priests told the slaves in India that they were suffering from their karma and that there was another better life.  But the slaves didn't quite believe it. Hapgood implies that religion may be another invention of the rich to keep the slaves content and happy.  So whats the solution?  Reading between the lines in Hapgoods book, I find that one should be skeptical of claims and get only what you need. Needs are usually very few. This is enough to make one happy and free without being a slave to profiteers and working to make the rich richer and the poor poorer.	2004-03-02
US	41977373	R262BCDD76GKT2	0895550326	807907712	Evidence of Satan in the Modern World	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Lies and contradictions is satans method of operation.	Leon Cristiani has written a revealing book on satans methods.  He shows how the Cure of Ars was tempted by the devil;  how he mimicked some of the visions of Lourdes. He also tells how Hitler was a medium of satan. This book is one of the most honest and insightful books on diabolism ever written.  What I found particulary intresting is the section on lies and contradictions.  Cristiani cites scripture where Jesus said: \\"Let your speech be yes for yes and no for no. Anything else comes from the evil one.\\" With this we can see how the devil operates in the world.  Starting with the first lie and contradiction in the garden of eden.  Read Genesis 3:1.  God told Adam and Eve that if they ate of the tree, they would die.  Satan told Eve that they would not die.  That is Satan is calling God a liar.  We then know what happened to the human race.  The lies and contradictions continue to this day.  Take the following lies and contradictions: Abortion is positively murder and yet it has the blessing of the Supreme court and others call it a womans right.  The Bible condemns theft, yet their are overcharges for most things you buy. This is called a healthy profit by corporations.  Jesus said\\"Woe to you rich, because your consolation is now.\\" Yet you have very rich people and ministers claiming they are going to heaven.  The Catholic Church covered up pedophilia for decades and who knows how much longer, and denied it.  The lies and contradictions go on and on. The smoke of satan has entered the church,said one Pope.  He might have added, it is now pretty thick around the world.  Anyone with a discerning eye, can see how the evil one spreads wickedness in the world.  He doesnt come out with horror and terror, but as an angel of light bearing in his bloody hands, lies and contradictions.	2004-02-24
US	41977373	R154PC3P39VSJE	0312695276	931149847	Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam	Books	5	1	3	N	N	eternal truths in poetic form...	and the illustrations are instructive too. Khayyam offers the most brilliant truths in the condensed form of poetry.  This is actually a scientific text, but easy to understand without mind numbing jargon.  If one carefully studies this text you can come upon deep insights into the nature of the universe.  The poem begins with a woman awaking from sleep and shows that life is to be enjoyed before one goes back to the eternal shores of nothingness.  The searcher of truth, as shown here, goes to scholars who argue one position against another.  He goes out the same way he came in; without truth.  The rich man gains and gains and ends up dead with nothing to show for it.  Life as Kayyam demonstrates is a magic show.  It is the eternal forms taking an incarnation in this life.  A show without beginning or end.  A show that has its actors of genius and fool, rich man and poor man, saint and sinner, but a show nonetheless.  What then does one do?  Enjoy life writes Kayyam, taste the wine of life, but in a rational manner.  Then when life is over one takes the camel caravan back to eternal nothingness and freedom from suffering.  A most excellent and wise book. Another book I would recommend that is similar is; On the nature of the universe by Lucretius, which is outstanding and logical. These two books do not go into the endless and futile arguments of theists and atheists, but take the smatterings of truth in them.  That is there is a God, but the God of the ancient philosphers ie, the unmoved mover of Aristotle.  That is an eternal force that is life itself that has been putting things into motion from all eternity.	2003-10-14
US	41977373	R1YIZDPFC3OQLP	0075536099	523487410	The Web of Belief	Books	5	9	9	N	N	excellent introduction to rational thought	This book points to the underpinnings of rational thought and scientific method.  There is no such thing as THE scientific method.  But all versions of the scientific method have certain basic elements such as hypothesis, evidence, testing of theory and so forth.  This book explains all this and from the position of philosophy that invented the scientific method.  The authors show the logic behind rational thought which all adds up to eminent common sense.  After reading this book many years ago, it became clear to me how Einstein came up with the theory of relativity.  The theory is an explanation of why the Miachelson-Morley experiment failed to find the ether. This book makes a lot of sense.  Its a bit pricey, but if you like the philosophy behind rational thinking and scientific method, you might consider the purchase of this book.	2003-06-11
US	41977373	R33BJ1SCO8C3B5	0465068626	634913745	Our Final Hour	Books	3	6	22	N	N	Scientists are learning the hard way.	Rees offers us a warning against what the misuse of science can cause.  He writes about the horrible destruction of nanotechnology and other advances of science.  He makes many valid points and the book is excellent in warning us of the dangers of the misuse of science.  I read somewhere that science only unveils the mysteries of nature but does not make moral statements about it.  This better change and change fast!  Science deals with knowledge and power and these REQUIRE moral and ethical standards.  If these are not put in place science will eventually destroy itself and the world.  Scientists and other knowledge and power seekers should read and memorize Emersons essay on compensation.  There is nothing wrong with seeking knowledge and power.  Its MISUSE is wrong.  Its this that will destroy science if it doesn't wise up.  Science is a great thing indeed, but it is the height of stupidity to divorce it from morals and ethics.  Emerson is right when he says that those who do evil plant the seeds of destruction within themselves and their actions.  It is forever true that what you sow is what you reap.  This law of compensation holds true for all reality, because IT IS reality.  Its work can be seen even now.  I hope all read this work and take heed of what Rees writes.  He sounds the warning, it is up to science and us to listen and act.	2003-05-19
US	41977373	RM69ZS6E2YYNR	1402700350	772263201	Voodoo Rituals: A User's Guide	Books	5	3	7	N	N	a marvelous magickal book	I was stunned by the one star reviews of this book.  This book is one of the most awesome I have ever read.  This is a true voodoo book.  It has everything from loas to spells of all kinds, evocation of spirits, how to develop will power, spiritual vision,etc.  Its true that this book does not give instructions for calling the loa into a person but gives instructions for calling them into a magick mirror.  Kraig in Modern Magick calls voodoo low magick.  But magick it is.  This means it deals with evocations, spells etc. for common things.  Magick is Magick.  This book is not a mixture of traditions, but treats magick from a voodoo perspective.  The book is just great.  It is far and away better than most books on magick from any tradition which are for the most part watered down.  You have to read and study these books carefully to get to any occult secrets but Owusu's book comes right out and tells you.  My guess is that this book is a well kept secret with occultists who may be amazed that the deeper secrets have found their way into this book.  I have studied the occult for many years and this book is among the top five.  Occultists should be skeptical of things because things are not always what they appear to be. I say this because this book is not a poor book, but a very illuminating one.  Fantastic!	2003-04-13
US	41977373	R3RFC1OQEC2HZ7	044913640X	76009784	The Power is You	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A unique and masterful work	I found this book luckily at a library sale.  Oliver gives a much needed treatment on the antichrist(luciferic)consciousness. She treats this from a metaphysical standpoint.  Her belief is that our negative thoughts and actions give strength to the antichrist in order to spread evil throughout the world and possibly the universe. She says that our thoughts and actions have consequences and links this with the theory of karma.  Negative and evil films, songs, books etc. are causes which produce evil effects.  This feeds the antichrist consciousness which increases its power to spread more evil.  A vicious cycle if there ever was one.  She writes that negative thoughts and actions produce evil vibrations that eventually manifest into evil things and events.  Oliver cites many examples of bad films, shows, songs and even the bad use of science that feed into the antichrists mind.  Those who do this she writes will have a very heavy debt to pay.  Actions have consequences.  At one point in the book she says that there are those who practice black magic for the sole purpose of increasing these negative vibrations to increase the destruction of the world.  Could this be the metaphysical reason behind the rise of Hitler, AIDS and such?  I leave that to the reader to decide.  In the second and third part of her work, she writes about the aura and gives workshops(visualizations) to strengthen the aura against the antichrist and to achieve enlightenment.  Whats really intresting about her claims is she says that these attacks are aimed at you.  Why?  Because, she writes, the antichrist wishes you to reincarnate again and again by promoting negative karma and thus propogate the cycle of incarnation and suffering, I believe, without end.  Here we have what hell is like from the metaphysical standpoint.  What she writes seems incredible at first, but if thoughts are things and actions have consquences she may be deadly right.  Her book should be reprinted and kept in print.  Itis one of the most engrossing and illuminating books ever.	2003-03-14
US	41977373	R3Q6GBPLTHYEDT	0877739471	685063912	Living with Kundalini: The Autobiography of Gopi Krishna (Shambhala Dragon Editions)	Books	3	37	42	N	N	An intresting account but dont take it as gospel	Krishna gives, what I believe, to be a true account of kundalini awakening.  I don't have doubts about what he writes; he seems to be sincere. His book is a telling of how he practiced meditation on the crown chakra and  gives in terrifying detail  how the kundalini affected him. However I must agree with  one of the reviewers, who wrote  about how little Krishna knows about the effects of meditation. It seems he picked up a meditation technique without knowing anything about its results. He appears to have  no knowledge of yoga or the yoga sutras of pantajali. It looks like he just started meditating without any prior study of authentic  information on meditation and its effects. This is surprising to me, because India has many good books on meditation and yoga. He started to meditate and then proceeds to give an account of his results. I got the idea that kundalini was incredibly dangerous and meditation was not something one would want to do. His results are real, because I have experienced to a greater or lesser degree some of the things he writes about. For example, in one of part of the book he writes that his appetite increased greatly. The true reason for this is that meditation increases the gastric fire. The result of this increased appetite is that kundalini uses the greater amounts of food  to increase your physical and mental health. But if you read Krishnas account of it, you think its something truly terrible. I would suggest you take his conclusions with a great deal of skepticism. He also writes that he could not find someone in India who would explain what was happening to him. One guru told him that he was possessed by a demon. This shows me that there may far less genuine teachers and information in India then one may be led to believe. There are authentic teachings however; the works of Swami Sivananda come to mind. This man, as far as I know, is a true guru and spiritual genius. He has written many excellent works on yoga and meditation.  I refer the spiritual seeker to his books which are inexpensive and filled with wisdom and practical teachings. True teachings are out there but they are not abundant. One should follow the yoga students of long ago who read authentic works such as the yoga sutras of pantajali and carefully STUDIED these works to get at the deeper meanings of the text. The deep secrets of the occult are found this way and not by following books or other instructions that dont know what they are talking about.	2003-02-24
US	41977373	R2T9PV9NVS20I7	0932813747	48092962	The Christ Conspiracy: The Greatest Story Ever Sold	Books	3	5	14	N	N	Totally shocking if true.	Here Acharya presents a great deal of evidence to support her claim that Jesus Christ never existed.  He was rather made up by conspirators to gain money and power from people.  She gives evidence of solar myths from other cultures, contradictions in the bible and so on to support her arguments.  The question is, is it true?  We can start by saying that either the Bible is true or not true. If true, then Acharyas and her fellow Christ mythicists claims are all bunk.  But suppose the bible is false,then by a logical method called \\"reduction to absurdity\\" we would probably find the following: Not only is the new testament a fiction but the old testament as well.  The conspiracy would have to be a very sophisticated one, since it has fooled billions, including all kinds of scholars, skeptics, and pretty much the rest of humanity.  All the archeological finds supporting the Bible, no matter how trivial, would have had to be faked.  People with spiritual experiences would be the victims of suggestion.  Those who wrote the Bible would have had to fit prophecies exactly from the old testament to the new.  There would have had to been collaboration between the conspirators that lasted hundreds perhaps thousands of years... you get the idea. Possible? Yes. Probable? No.  The degree of sophistication to pull this off would have to be truly remarkable.  The only other book that delves into this is David Ickes, The Biggest Secret.  Icke mentions the only group with the power to pull off such a hoax; the fabled illuminati.  Not only did the conspirators invent Christianity but if you read between the lines of Acharyas book, they invented Hinduism, Buddhism and probably all the other religions as well, along with all their scriptures.  A very busy bunch.  Why did they do all this?  Money and power Acharaya tells us.  Is what Acharya writes true?  It could be, but I have my doubts.  The degree of sophistication to pull this off would argue favorably for contact with sinister otherworldly forces.  Icke claims that the illuminati are in contact via magical ritual with these powers,ie;fallen angels?  While I find Acharyas book very disturbing, if you use logical inferences and deductions from her claims, especially reduction to absurdity, the book sounds unbelievable.  She would need a lot more evidence than she presents, especially arguments refuting objections, to make a strong case.  It is though an outstanding book for the arguments countering the Christian claims.  After all she could be right.  If she is, then one no longer need fear a God,devil or eternal damnation because these are all the inventions of the conspirators(illuminati?).  I also suggest the interested reader to Ickes book \\"The Biggest Secret\\" and to Gerald Messadies book\\" A history of the devil\\"  The latter is an excellent book showing how the devil was invented to gain political control by theocracies.	2003-01-09
US	41977373	R3V3RE7W11NGA1	156836198X	468719	A History of the Devil	Books	5	9	12	N	N	conspiracy theory meets the devil	One of the most illuminating and scholarly books I have ever read! Messadie begins the history of the devil with the primitive religions and moves on to the more traditional religions such as Christianity and Islam.  His means to disprove the devils existance is a historical one.  He shows that the different religions from the most primitive to the ones we have now, simply borrowed the idea of the devil mostly from each other and used it as a means to gain political power.  He argues that the idea of the devil took form during the time of zoroaster.  The devil was invented by theocracies to gain and mantain politcal power.  Although the book doesnt come out and say it, this is an excellent book on religious conspiracy theories.  Im amazed that this book is not better known.  A true classic of its kind.  Although the book did not convince me to abandon religion, I treasure it because it could turn out to be true on further evidence. Also because I like looking at the skeptical side of things.  If this book is true imagine all those who claimed to have seen hell or the devil: it would all be suggestion.  I used to know a trappist monk who's mother had to be locked up, because she had an intense fear of hell.  No one deserves hell more than those who made up the devil or jesus christ and put people through terrible suffering, fear and dissapointment if this book is true.  I also recommend the Christ Conspiracy by Acharya S.  Christianity before Christ by John Jackson and the biography of Satan by Kersey Graves to give a good in depth study of the origins of Christianity, Satan, and the Bible.  This book is a jewel in the rough and deserves rereadings and close study.	2003-01-07
US	41977373	R3RDFI31OII0LP	0449210103	76521440	Looking Out for #1	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Put the power of truth and reason on your side.	Among all the self help books that I have read, this is on the short list of classics.  What makes this book unique is that it focuses on the two things that can really help you; truth and reason.  Ringer applies these to people, the world and everyday life.  This is one of the few books that I've read that is refreshingly honest.  The author pulls no punches and tells things the way they are.  The book may be intimidating to some people because it is the raw truth and this can be frightening.  It is best to face the truth because only in truth does one find power.  Ringer begins by showing how perspective orients us to the world, and how people have differing perspectives.  He shows why it is important to base your actions on truth and reason and why a failure to do so can lead to disaster.  Some people may find truth unpleasent, but this really is a problem of perspective.  What appears terrible may really be a blessing in disguise. One should not focus exclusivley on the negative but look at the positive side too.  Bad experiences for instance can toughen you up, make you stronger and more self reliant.  In one chapter on finance, Ringer gives his experiences about being left destitute, but he looked on the positive side-theres always a positive side, if you look hard enough- and used it to his advantage.  If one wants to survive and do well in this world, he must arm himself with truth. This book does a splendid job in showing that.	2002-12-23
US	41977373	R82NKKMWU77QP	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	3	11	31	N	N	better reasoned than most books of this type	In college the philosophy professor gave us this book to read.  He is an atheist and since I was raised a christian I wanted to see if I was wrong in my beliefs.  This book claims that God does not exist.  Russell argues that since no one had to create God then no one had to create the world either.  In other words,theres no reason why matter can't be eternal.  From this Russell, then gives us his other reasons why he doesn't believe; that Christianity is a version of the old pagan beliefs that had gods born of virgins, etc.  I found the book to be well written and argued, but it did not convince me.  Let me point out that despite my religious upbringing I was an atheist and a skeptic at 7 or 8 years old.  There is something very comforting about atheistic beliefs.  That is there is no God out there, and that when you die you are out of suffering and pain forever; you dont exist any more.  That you dont have to worry about hell and you can live life the way you think is best.  Anyone who has suffered whether with a bad illness or other kinds of pain has probably entertained the thought that they wish they never existed and that death ends all.  I would have still been an atheist but in all fairness to truth, I did look at counter arguments to the atheist position.  I examined the arguments for the unmoved mover and other arguments for the existance of God and religions.  I came to the conclusion that there does seem to be a God and that all religions are teaching parts of the truth.  Try as I might I could not think up of or see any arguments that would overthrow the position on the existance of God, and the claims of religion.  Russell could indeed be right, but I do not believe it to be honest for me to hold onto a postion(atheism) that has strong counter evidence against it.  I am still researching evidence that could refute God and religions, but I have not come upon any strong counterevidence in over 35 years. This book is good reading because Russell is very sincere about his beliefs and it shows through in his writing.	2002-12-18
US	41977373	R3QR9YRUEIB68M	0892812516	995944401	The Occult Conspiracy: Secret Societies--Their Influence and Power in World History	Books	5	10	18	N	N	a truly illuminating book	Howard presents a convincing case for occult influences in the world from ancient times to the present.  He starts from Egypt and shows how both white and black occult forces have influenced politics from ancient times to the present.  Howard shows that history may really be a war between the great white brotherhood;magicians who work for the light and the illuminati: black magicians who work for the forces of darkness.  While David Icke presents the machinations of the illuminati, the positive work of the great white brotherhood is largely ignored.  Skeptics of course would ridicule such things, but the evidence is there for anyone to see.  These skeptics wonder that if the illuminati are so powerful why havent they conquered the world?  If Hitler was an agent of the illuminati then why didnt he win the war?  Most conspiracy theorists can't answer that because they either ignore or dont know about the influence of the great white brotherhood.  The next time you see positive books on the occult and other books that tell the truth about the world and the illuminati, you can be sure the great white brotherhood is either inspiring such writers or have a direct hand in it.  Howard alludes to the fact that the forces of light will eventually win this war.  Let's hope its soon.	2002-11-22
US	41977373	R15MVAKPEX43W6	0679417397	337991686	Nineteen Eighty-Four	Books	3	2	9	N	N	excellent but with reservations	I really enjoyed this book.  But I will explain my three star review instead of 5 star later in the review.  The book has excellent characterization and theme.  The main character Winston is fighting big brother ie; big government.  This is a nameless, faceless power structure who controls things through double think; holding two contradictory premises as being true and newspeak and other illogical and insane techniques.  When I read the book through, it seemed to describe some of the methods currently being used in the real world.  In the introduction, the editor claimed that the book is about power politics.  This book though should not have been published.  There are people now who use the techniques in this book, whether they admit it or not.  For instance, before this book was published, you could start at the bottom of the ladder in a job, work hard and go to the top of the corporate ladder.  Now, you have the use of double think in job situations.  They tell you that to get a job you have to have prior experience.  But how do you get that, if no one hires you?  So it goes.  The entertainment business is a prime example of double think.  To get anywhere you need an agent, but an agent will tell you to get experience.  Ayn Rand would have had a field day with Orwells book.  The fact is truth is eternal, and the war against it as in Orwells book is bound to fail.	2002-10-12
US	41977373	RS6IYLKUO2Y1V	0451138937	448139820	Philosophy: Who Needs It	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Ayn Rand tells things as they are.	After reading books on philosophy, I have to put this one among the best top five ever written.  It takes courage to write like Rand does, because she doesnt mince words and tells it like it is.  She writes why we need philosophy, how to detect philosophical con games and how to practice philosophy.  Her other essays are criticisms of Kant and some other philosophers showing how their writings are con games.  Then in the next to final chapter in the book she shows the reader what to do in order to spread truth and reason.  Rands approach to philosophy is called the law of identity.  This law states that A is A. That is things are what they are.  This law applies to all reality no matter what it is.  She call this law an irreducible primary.  This means that it is a principle that cannot be contradicted without falling into absurdity.  Truth is another of these irreducible primaries.  Starting from Truth and the law of identity a philosopher can then find other primary laws such as the law of non contradiction and the law of the excluded middle, among others.  Rands criticisms of other philosophers makes sense because they contradict the law of identity.  I have read Kant and Hume for instance, and I can say that they dont make sense.  Hume denies causality, yet he uses it in asserting his arguments. Kant claims we cant know things as they are, but if this were so we can deny his philosophy, since things are never what they are.  She says these philosophers play con games. I dont think they do so on purpose.  Whether they do or not its still a con game.  Whats behind all this is a denial of reality and the placing of delusion in its place.  We see this all around society.  There is only one place to go when reality is denied and that is confusion, chaos and eventual destruction.	2002-07-03
US	41977373	RODHEI714F8SU	0879758406	796453034	Looking for a Miracle	Books	1	19	59	N	N	a very poor critique	I am always willing to look at the skeptical side of things, along with those who argue for a position.  As I read through this book I got the impression that Nickells arguments simply did not make sense.  He claims that religions fake the many miraculous things and events that happen within the religion.  Why?  For greed and power.  Very unlikely for the most part.  Why? These miraculous events have been occuring since the beginning of religions. He would have us believe that the miracles of Christ, the uniformity of the Bible, and all things miraculous are all faked.  To believe this we would have to believe that all things miraculous are either illusions,lies,and the wholesale work of frauds.  There may be something much deeper going on in religion, than Nickells fraud claims.  Perhaps the Hindus are right; God appeared as Krishna, Buddha and Jesus among other incarnations.  Nickells thesis doesnt add up.  His book is only preaching to the choir, and I dont recommend it.  This whole book claims to explain the miracles of St. Janarius among others in a way that doesnt conform to the evidence.  He also ignores or trivializes evidence that contradicts his position. This in no way is a search for truth, no matter what this book claims.  One reviewer wrote that ancedotal evidence is no evidence of anything.  Actually no amount of evidence can convince someone who doesnt want to believe, no matter if he is a skeptic or believer.  Things are what they are.  There is no arguing against a fact as Aquinas wisely observes.  Unless contradicting evidence can be brought up against a fact to show that a fact is not really a fact, one can go on preaching to the choir forever.  This book does not present any credible contradicting evidence and Nickells arguments can be refuted.	2002-06-22
US	41977373	R10S03H7IAFEY4	051509028X	537324987	Acres of Diamonds	Books	5	35	36	N	N	one of the greatest books ever written	Whoever said that great things come in small packages, must have had this book in mind.  Conwell tells the story of a man who looked for diamonds and travelled the whole world to find them. After years of searching he came back home empty handed.  His wife remarried and he was destitute.  By accident one day he found the diamonds in his own backyard.  The moral is obvious: Examine all the evidence to find truth.  Most of the time its right under your nose.  Although conwell uses this story to illustrate some matters of business, the message can be applied to anything.  The smartest people in the world use the principles in this book whether they know it or not.  The smart and succesful are usually in the minority and probably always will be. Others may not grasp the genius in this book, but the principles of success are here.	2002-06-20
US	41977373	R1G0SSSNIJ0MSB	0964412608	469584886	The Medical Mafia: How to Get Out of it Alive and Take Back Our Health and Wealth	Books	5	24	29	N	N	light years ahead of the learning curve	Its a shocking title, isnt it? Medical Mafia?  However, the author is right.  She claims that we are all part of the infinite and that in essence we are all perfectly healthy.  Her argument is that disease first shows up in the soul and from there is transferred to the physical body.  This is not a new theory. In a book called Pranic healing by sui, he states pretty much the same thing.  She claims that by using energy healing such as metaphysical healing, reflexology, polarity healing etc. the disease can be cured in the soul and health restored to the physical body. Simple logic and very true.  The other parts of the book deal with the medical mafia.  These are the business people who make a killing off the misery and suffering of others. The profit motive MUST be taken out of medicine. In countries where socialized medicine is installed over 50% of doctors and medical technicians etc. quit! If that doesnt tell you something about the profit motive, nothing will.  This book was very disturbing to me because I was led to believe that medicine had the purest of motives. Wrong.  She has some very frightening information in this book about medical conspiracies and evidence to back it up.  I am not saying that all medicine is corrupt, but sky high medical bills, medicines and insurance costs point to something very wrong.  Nor am I saying that you should quit your doctor. Better safe than sorry. I do believe though that you should compliment your doctors treatments with energy healing treatments.  These treatments if used prudently and persistantly are effective.  I hope everyone whether healthy or not reads this book.	2002-06-19
US	41977373	R29FWX8BEGT6BT	0887306101	104525701	Market Wizards	Books	1	54	81	N	N	Market Baloney	Here we get interviews with trading &quot;wizards&quot;.  What you are actually getting is the same tired advice of cutting your losses etc. etc. I suspect that people who read this book think they are being let in on insights and &quot;secrets&quot; of how these traders are so successful. After all if these &quot;wizards&quot; cant tell you who can? Ever try truth and logic?  If you did, you would see what a crock this book is.  Most traders are using the advice in this book, so why arent they as successful as these &quot;wizards&quot; are?  Most people including publishers believe these people have &quot;secret knowledge&quot; and if you pay their outrageous prices for courses and books they sell, you'll be a success.  Baloney.  People who believe this believe in magic.  They subconciously believe that if the wizard touches them with their starry wand or takes their magical advice they become instantly successful. Sure you do.  The truth is so simple, many people overlook it.  The truth is you have to have true knowledge and great mastery.  Thats it.  You have to figure the truth out yourself, instead of having it spoon fed to you. Unfortunately, many people believe in magic.  They want something for nothing.  This attitude is what causes sorry excuses for books like this to be published.  Success always requires a price to pay.  That price is hard study and hard work to gain mastery.  Thats something these market &quot;wizards&quot; dont tell you and if you look through most if not all trading books, they dont tell you either.  Why?  To keep you paying up.  They keep you chasing for the gold at the end of the rainbow.  Did I let the cat out of the bag?  Heck no! In the intellegence service they have an old saying &quot; The best way to keep something secret is to lay it out in the open.&quot;  True words indeed.  Some people will find the truth and most will always miss it right under their noses.  Read Acres of Diamonds by Russell Conwell.  There are many good books on trading.  Unfortunately many are over priced.  Before one had to pay these prices for what he needed.  Luckily, Toni Turner has written several outstanding books on day trading and short term trading. They are reasonably priced and offer valid knowledge.  Her books are better than the Market Wizard tripe and are very practical.  Also beware of greed.  Its the greatest reason people get killed trading.  Trade to pay your bills and put food on the table.  Dont learn the hard way. Greed will nail you one way or another. Count on it.  Call it money karma.	2002-06-08
US	41977373	R2RD0CVICOUOVJ	0471132985	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way: Investment Strategies of the World's Greatest Investor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Belongs on the list of all time investment classics.	Other reviewers have written that this book is undervalued and they are right.  Right from the start Hagstrom gives us advice on the nature of the market.  He then gives management tenants, how to value a business and all kinds of investment tenants.  These tenents are so fundamental that its very difficult to see how investing can be done without them in one form or the other.  This makes the book timeless.  Numerous examples are given from real world cases of how these tenants are used.  There is also an excellent appendix that gives examples of how a business is valued.  This is very helpful.  Some reviewers have criticized Hagstrom, saying that if the book is true, why isnt he rich?  But this is not how information is to be judged.  There are many books that contain solid gold advice, but there are few who master them. Buffett is among them.  If one wants additional information on Buffets methods, I suggest reading &quot;How to pick stocks like Warren Buffett&quot; by Tim Vick.  But The Warren Buffett Way is a classic and at the top of the heap.	2002-05-30
US	41977373	R2TW2WZSGIP12I	0425101703	954833545	The Ultimate Secrets of Total Self-Confidence: A Proven Formula That Has Worked for Thousands	Books	5	8	11	N	N	This book gets it right	I have read many self help books but this is the best.  The section on truth is particulary enlightening.  I had some very terrible experiences some years after I had graduated from high school.  Although I will skip the incident with the fortune teller who told me I was cursed and going to hell unless I forked over a hundred dollars, I did have bad experiences on the job.  Being cursed at, cheated and screamed at is not easy to take, unless of course you are armed with truth.  The book starts with truth and how truth is one of the secrets of self confidence.  This section is one of the most engrossing I have ever read.  If I were armed with truth beforehand I would have understood that the business world is full of psychopaths and the abuse would have been withstood.  Truth arms you with power.  This may seem trivial to some, but when you go out in the real world youll see what I mean.  He also has a good chapter on meditation which also gives great power and self confidence, but I would advise taking it easy.  Meditation links one to the ultimate source of things and is not to be taken lightly.  If you feel that you are getting too much power, stop meditating.  If you decide to take it up again, do so slowly.  I am writing from experience in all of this.  This book belongs in a class to itself.	2002-05-28
US	41977373	R3DP718HIXDJ19	0840730322	981611157	Straight Answers on the New Age	Books	2	6	8	N	N	a mix of truth and baloney	I came across this book recently in the library.  I wish I could give it a higher rating but this wouldnt be honest.  I agree with Larson that some of the new age thinking is vague at best.  For instance what is cosmic consciousness supposed to be?  Does it mean you ascend to heaven? Does it mean you gain endless power? I have studied the new age for years and get the same vague answers which makes me wonder if these \\"experts\\" know what they are talking about.  The book is a critique of all things new age from crystals to yoga.  He gives information on crystals for instance, then he gives a question and answer forum on the subject.  I found this helpful.  I also agree with him that there is bunk in the new age.  There are so called masters of yoga who cant even levitate a pencil, yet they claim perfection!  Profiteers are rife in this area too. They dont believe in it themselves, they only want your money.  However, Larson goes to far.  There is no scriptural basis that meditation leads to possession.  I have used reflexology myself and have had great results.  Why would this be considered wrong?  Isnt it possible that God put all kinds of wonderful things in nature and the human mind and body?  Reading his book one would think that anything discovered like atomic power, electricity and the rest must be demonic.  Since this is ludicrous, its not more so than some of the claims he makes in his book.  If the chinese discovered accupuncture or reflexology or the hindus discovered the powers of the mind why would this be considered demonic and not atomic power?  Also his quoting of science as final arbriter is also foolish.  Scientific method is nothing more than using pro and con with empiricism. I got the impression that to claim something as not scientific is to damn it to oblivion as if science is the voice of truth.  Far from it. I cant recommend this book.  Larson seems to have irrational scruples.  He takes information and then draws unsupported conclusions.  Itseems to me that God is good in putting things like herbs, reflexology, mind healing and other things in nature to help us.  Larsons view doesnt make sense and his quoting of certain scriptures to support his view is also biased in places.  He quotes the Bible where it says \\"As a man thinks,so is he.\\" but then he says meditation and visualization is wrong.  Go and figure.	2002-05-21
US	41977373	RCR0NVVYY5A4O	0932750435	111367642	Elliott Wave Principle: Key to Market Behavior	Books	1	11	38	N	N	We dont live in a universe governed by determinism	The book seems to offer evidence that the wave theory works, but it doesnt pass the test of contradicting evidence.  The writers are basically saying that everything in nature seems to be working in a pattern of cycles.  This theory is then presented as being the case with the stock market.  If we can chart these cycles we will then be able to find what the stock markets next move will be in general and even in particular stocks.  The problems with this are; If this theory were true we would be living in a universe governed by determinism.  This cant be since there would be infinite cause and effect and there cant be two infinites. If determinism were true, there would be no free will, but as was shown above this is not the case.  Events predicted by the elliot wave are coincidences and when money is at stake youre better off dealing in probabilities.  The truth is that markets are governed by human psychology.  Its far better to take the advice of the wise J. Paul Getty who wrote \\" To make money in the market buy when others are selling and sell when others are buying.\\"  Most trading books are very expensive and their advice in no way justifies their price.  Get How to be rich by J.Paul Getty.  This book offers very wise advice on making money in buisness, investments etc. and it doesnt cost an arm and a leg.	2002-05-08
US	41977373	R1634CYUF5GZB1	0385194269	496553654	Touch Typing Made Simple	Books	5	73	74	N	N	Theres a reason it has sold over a million copies.	This is one of the easiest books to learn typing from.  Im a writer and I got tired of paying other people to type up my manuscripts for me at high prices.  So I took matters into my own hands and looked around for a good typing book.  There were several good ones among many, but this book has everything.  It shows you how to sit properly, how to use all the keys on the board and not just the alphabet.  The book is divided into lessons and I find this very helpful.  What surprised me the most is how fast I learned how to type.  It was amazing! Before I started this book, I had to look over all the board for a letter to type a simple sentence.  After only 3 or 4 days of practice at about 3 hours a day, I began to notice greater coordination of my fingers and I was typing.  Not fast, it was still slow, but what an improvement for a beginner.  The book also has alphabetical sentences to increase your typing speed.  These sentences contain every word in the alphabet.  Not only did I learn how to type, but the success in mastering the keyboard, gave me the desire to continue working and I just breezed through the course.  This is a classic typing book.	2002-04-11
US	41977373	R12UU16Z4QK4RO	0910309205	932186634	Christianity Before Christ	Books	3	45	82	N	N	intresting, but misses the mark.	Jackson has written a good work criticizing the christian religion, but he seems to be proving it instead of denying it.  Anyone who has studied religions closely especially their historical origins cannot help but be struck by many similarities among them.  Jackson writes that the pagan gods and godesses were made up to explain the universe under the narratives of myths.  He then claims that christianity borrowed these pagan myths and this is how the bible, christ, etc. originated.  If one studies the various religions closely one sees striking similarities.  For instance, there are many crucified saviours, the aztecs practiced confession very similar to the catholic rites, believers in mithra have a eucharistic rite, some of the pagan gods were crucified then ressurected and so on.  Why are there so many similarities?  Jackson would have us believe that the pagans made such things up and the christians borrowed from them to make up their religion.  Whats intresting is that Jackson quotes Augustine &quot; That which is known as the christian religion existed among the ancients, and never did not exist, from the beginning of the human race until the time when christ came in the flesh, at which time the true religion, which already existed began to be called christianity.&quot; This is a very revealing quote.  It shows that there was in fact a true religion from the beginning of the world.  It may have been corrupted after the passage of time.  This would explain how the pagans and the various religions have the same themes of crucifixion, ressurection, etc. all throughout the world.  A very good book explaining all of this is the Two babylons by Hislop.  Jacksons book is good because it shows that the original christianity may have been more profound than we know with elements of mind power and so forth that are scattered through the religions of the world.  Although I dont agree with Jacksons conclusions, his research on the pagan religions, the quote from Augustine etc. all make for very intresting reading. This is a great book.	2002-01-03
US	41977373	R2YAGVMGH9ZAZ	0879758104	58494397	The Essential Epicurus: Letters, Principal Doctrines, Vatican Sayings, and Fragments (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	69	76	N	N	The antidote to human stupidity and greed.	This book does not rely on a god or a saviour to lead a smart and fulfilling life.  It relies soley on reason and what an effective use of it by epicurus!  Most of epicurus works are either lost or destroyed, but this book contains his essential teachings.  Epicurus did not deny the existance of the gods.  This would make sense.  If the universe is infinite as he says, then all possible things already exist in one way or another.  According to epicurus one should live out his natural life, this would be prudent.  This life is the only one you get.  He writes that by being prudent ie; looking at both sides of an issue to find truth and getting only what you need, you can live a smart and happy life. After life is over one goes to eternal oblivion, free of all suffering forever.  The ironic thing about epicurus is that he admits there are gods.  If one reads what he writes carefully, one finds that one doesnt need to go to heaven or even to exist. Since it is not needed, one loses nothing.  The same thing can be said for the wild goose chase, most people are engaged in for happiness.  They want bigger houses, more expensive cars, more cash, etc. and instead of gaining happiness gain more misery.  Why?  Because the truth is you gain happiness by getting only what you need.  Epicurus writes that those who are not satisfied with a little, will never be satisfied even with a lot or even infinity.  The more you have above need, the more worry, headache and problems.  This in no way is conducive to happiness.  These writings are some of the most brilliant in the entire realm of philosophy.  This book gets two thumbs up!	2001-12-26
US	41977373	R2IFA1PKT78OCQ	0679779175	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	should be on the short list of classic books on philosophy	This book is a masterwork.  I do not give praise lightly, but this book is truly outstanding.  The author not only writes well and has a fine sense of humor, he also organizes the book into excellent themes.  His first subject is on truth and how we find it by looking at both sides of an issue.  The advice on how to think for yourself is logical and it works.  The second subject is on how to live.  He shows that maximum happiness is possible in this life by just getting what you need.  His argument in support of this is brilliant.  Most people think that the more you have, the more happiness you have.  This is totally false.  This would come as a shock to those who think that luxuries are needed for a happy life.  They are not.  If this were all to the book, it would not detract from its greatness.  He also shows how to deal with the actions of fortune, dealing with difficulties and other hard things.  This book should be given out to those who are starting out in life and people who need advice that is based on reality and not wishful thinking.  This life is short and it makes sense to live it well.  This book shows how to do it. Highly recommended!	2001-12-19
US	41977373	R19DFQSIDJUL4J	1556617143	229700694	The Kingdom of the Cults	Books	4	2	11	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read.	Martin has written one of the best books I have ever had the pleasure to read. However there are flaws to the book, and thats why I docked it one star.  This is one of the few books, that really tells things the way they are, for the most part.  In the first few chapters Martin shows the mindset of the cultist.  He writes that the cultist is close minded and has contradictions in his beliefs that he does not address and simply passes over. Martin then goes on to give examples of this mindset by looking over the contradictions in the various cults.  For instance, Mormons say that God has flesh and bones, while Christ himself said God is spirit.  He does an outstanding job of showing the contradictions of the various religions he criticizes.  Martin then says that God is not the author of confusion.  However, there are flaws.  While Martin is right that the search for truth should involve being open minded and avoiding contradiction, he doesnt go far enough with his analysis.  I believe Martin was a fundamentalist christian. By his definition then of a cult, his own religion can be called a cult.  Protestants do not believe that Christ is present in the eucharist, whereby Christ himself said he was.  They do not believe in honoring Mary, yet Mary herself said that all generations will call her blessed.  Catholics themselves can be called a cult, since they claim that one needs to be baptized to be saved, yet a verse in Romans says that whoever calls on the name of the lord will be saved.  In fact, by Martins standard probably everything in the world can be called a cult.  For instance, orthodox science denies the evidence of alternative medicine even though their are thousands of testimonials to its effectiveness.  One could go on and on.  It shows that we live in an imperfect world.  Many claim to truth, but in fact many have only parts of the truth, thinking they have all the truth.  They dont. Martin sets a high standard for truth, and this is as it should be.  Keeping this in mind and the flaws of the book, this is a very good book.ping this in mind and the flaws of the book, this is a very good book.	2001-11-14
US	41977373	R2F8KDI6AQY27Y	0380718073	202175500	The Gods of Eden	Books	3	20	26	N	N	a gnosticism rehash	Bramley has written a good book, but there is little that is original with this book.  He makes the claim that aliens use us as pawns in some kind of cosmic chess game.  According to this metaphysics, there is no God at least the way most religions understand this word.  Rather there is eternal matter.  In the universe then, there are more advanced races.  So apparently these aliens came to earth, saw man in a primitive state, and decided to use him as slave labor to mine the earth for minerals they needed.  Afterwards, they decided to have fun with the human race and invented wars, diseases, and confused people with all kinds of religions that they invented.  This theme runs through his entire book.  A writer called Dione wrote two book called &quot;Is God Supernatural&quot; and &quot;God drives a flying saucer&quot; in which he claims that flying saucers were behind the rise of Hitler and the apparitions of fatima, among other things.  Unfortunately these two books are currently out of print.  In gnosticism in which Bramley tells us little if anything, we find the key to what may really be going on.  Gnostics believe that there is a God, but since he is eternal, he cannot be in time and cannot create anything.  They believe that creation occured by one of seven &quot;aeons&quot; or archangels.  One of these archangels created man and imprisioned his immortal spirit in a body of matter.  This archangel gave himself the name Jehovah or the god of the old testement.  Gnostics believe Jehovah is an evil being, since he trapped mans spirit in matter.  When Lucifer tried to liberate man by having man disobey Jehovah,  he actually freed man from Jehovahs clutches.  Since man now died, he could free himself from Jehovah and if he was purified by meditation, magick, etc.  after death he could return to God forever.  This is gnosticism in a nutshell.  In Bramleys work the evil Jehovah or the demiruge in gnosticism has now become an evil alien race, opposed of course by a good alien race.  Sound familiar?  It should.  Because its the same theme played on throughout religious history ie: God and the devil, Buddha and Mara, the good god versus the evil god of zorastrianism etc.  In truth, all there is, is reality itself.  Reality by definition is everywhere, and so it is in you.  This reality is called &quot; the kingdom of God&quot; &quot;Buddha nature&quot; etc.  Its essence is mind or thought.  All the evil Bramley accounts for has its origin in mans own mind.  The Bible says as A man thinks, so is he.  Although, the Bible may not be all true, this statement on thought is very true.  Man himself is responsible for all the good and evil that happens to him, not aliens, etc.  These are nothing more than projections of mans evil thoughts.  Meditation, and other spiritual disciplines help man to still his thoughts and eventually overcome his bondage to his own thoughts, which take the form of evil aliens, illuminati and who knows what else.  This in fact is the essence of all religions.  So Bramleys book is good as far as it goes, but his research doesnt take us far enough to find the solution.  The solution was found long ago.	2001-11-05
US	41977373	RXNI9IV0AZPWG	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	good but hardly anything new	The contents of this book that goes on to describe the most incredible things such as the illuminati, reptiles, satanic sacrifices and all the rest seems to strike some people as so incredible as to be fiction.  However most of the book is nothing new and any researcher who digs deep enough will find such things and even stranger.  Icke is to be commended because he is one of the few researchers who does what a researcher is supposed to do and that is to look at ALL the evidence and not just part of it to find truth.  He presents the evidence and you decide the truth.  I found his evidence compelling but there needs to be more to give it a probabilty of truth.  Whoever said that truth is stranger than fiction surely knew how profound truth is.  As fantastic as Ickes claims are they could be true and what a strange world if they are.	2001-10-12
US	41977373	R3DH5SQD0T8FQV	0385004648	785935341	Complete Chess Course: From Beginning to Winning Chess--a Comprehensive Yet Simplified Home-Study Chess Course. Eight Books in One	Books	5	27	28	N	N	great, great, great!	An outstanding book for beginners as well as advanced chess players.  The book takes the player from beginner to the advanced stages of chess with outstanding advice on openings,middlegame and endings, all illustrated by master games. There are chapters on how to play the white and black pieces and a host of clear diagrams and easily understood explanations.  All of this in a big book of over 600 pages.  This book is a classic, without question.  Although Reinfeld is criticized for making his books simple I dont find this to be a fault, but a virtue.  This book is an excellent example of clear and easy to understand writing.  Practice not knowledge makes the master.  A GREAT book!	2001-09-15
US	41977373	R20FMLELQHYYBS	1889323144	829326228	Chess Training Pocket Book: 300 Most Important Positions and Ideas (Comprehensive Chess Course Series)	Books	2	8	17	N	N	nothing new and no secrets	Previous reviewers have written that there is nothing new to this book and they are right.  The book basically gives tactical themes with some advice on how to use them.  Alburt claims that the themes can be used like a zip file, that is that one theme can be found in many other positions.  While this is true, it is also true for other tactical books that cost far less.  You can buy cheaper books on tactics, work hard and achieve the same results if not better than this book claims to give you.  Nor are there any &quot;secrets&quot; to this book.  Its pretty much the same advice you can find in other tactical books.  If the book really had secrets the price would be justified, but there are no secrets and this is true of his other books.	2001-09-14
US	41977373	R1996V5HCYGQZ0	188067386X	434652989	Combination Challenge	Books	1	29	35	N	N	not worth the money	I looked forward to getting this book.  Imagine my regret when I found out that most of the positions in this book come from Fred Reinfelds combination books such as 1001 combinations and sacrifices.  I thought I was getting a book that would offer ORIGINAL material.  If the book was original this book would be a sure classic, but its nothing of the kind.  I gave the book to charity and hopefully some good will come out of it.  I should have listened to the previous reviewer about saving your money. If you want combination books Reinfelds are the best.  Read his chess books and you will see why he was an early inductee to the chess hall of fame.  He was an original and not taking material from other writers.	2001-09-14
