US	42020202	R228G70XY9IGMI	0140144560	174801789	In the Spirit of Crazy Horse: The Story of Leonard Peltier and the FBI's War on the American Indian Movement	Books	4	24	38	N	N	strange combination of journalistic objectivity and bias	The net effect of Matthiessen's effort to be journalistically unbiased is that the book is a reflection of South Dakota politics.  South Dakota is several times referred to as the most racist state in the union, a racism that dates at least as far back as Wounded Knee (1890). The author makes no attempt to assuage these antagonisms but just reports them.<BR>    The author is much clearer than Dee Brown in the early chapters on the early antagonisms between Indian and white. For the rest, only a few episodes strike me as being<BR>especially interesting, just as only a few characters stand out as especially interesting, among them, Peltier of course, but also Anna Maria Asquash, Myrtle Poor Bear (both of these rather pathetic figures), Bob Robideau, Robert Hugh Wilson and on the \\"other side\\"--because that's what it is,the other side--SA David Price, Richard Wilson, and William Janklow.  For the most part when Matthieson \\"sits down\\" really spends some time with an individual, interviews him or quotes him at length, then that individual comes across clearly.  In between these clear passages are long passages of conflicting evidence which is a reflection of the murky nature of the case.  Mathiesson also outlines the main complaints of the Indian against the white man but these passages which run the length of the book are only occasionally brought out in the crystal clear. But since the author returns to them again and again, in the context of AIM demands, by the end most readers would be convinced.<BR> Still the overall impressionistic effect of reading the book is that you will be much better informed than if you had not read it. The book also has a very cosmopolitan atmosphere which will transport the reader throughout the American West, including Los Angeles, Seattle, New Mexico, Canada, and of course the Pine Ridge Reservation.  I thought the story of the Marion Penitentiary and the jailbreak from Lompoc was one of the most interesting episodes in the book.  Many times the book gets bogged down in legalese jargon or in endless lists of AIM members who were present at Pine Ridge on June 26, 1975, however.<BR>One of the book's main themes,emphasized over and over again, is AIM's paranoia about the intentions of the FBI and white men in general; for the most part Matthiesson's view is that AIM's paranoia is justified, and that Peltier was just a scapegoat who was set up by the FBI to take the blame for the crime.	2003-08-07
US	42020202	R1B2ZUIDTYMVNU	1881527379	115487658	The Wind Birds (The Curious Naturalist)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	compendium of amazing facts	What makes this book difficult is that the author assumes a certain foreknowledge of the 20 or more species of shorebirds discussed.  This makes is a bit like reading a text on anatomy without having any background. But even without, it is relatively easy reading once you get into it and just a cursory exsmination reveals some amazing facts and a great wealth of knowledge on the author's part: he will tell you why, for example, mammals are larger in the north and why chicken breast meat is white.  There is also a wealth of data on the taxonomy, evolution, migration patterns--which are quite amazing--and other habits of numerous shorebirds, as well as the hunting to near extinction of some of them in the early 20th century and before. The author brings to his work a lifetime of world travel, also.	2003-07-25
US	42020202	RZFU8TIVRPVX1	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exotic scientific and social history	Another solid effort from Simon Winchester, this book is written in lucid, journalistic prose enhanced by numerous historic photos and illustrations. This was the most catastrophic event of the late 19th century.  Winchester has at least four main themes, which he weaves together with admirable dexterity.  In order of importance they are:1)continental drift and plate tectonics: the scientific theory underlying the explosion of Krakatoa and others like it is explained with great lucidity and in detail.2)social history--nearly as important(some might argue more important), this is the social history of imperialism and social exploitation on a grand scale mostly by the Dutch (also by the Portugese) on the island of Java.  This history is explained from both the Western and the non-Western points of view. 3)disaster reporting--numerous eyewitness accounts enhance this rather terrifying account both from quite close-in and from afar, which comprises only about one quarter of the book, so you get a feel not only for the terrifying <BR>dimensions of the event itself but also of the imperialistic cultural context in which it occurred.  The world-wide repercussions -- scientific, social, and artistic-- are also discussed in some detail. 4) Natural history--quite a bit of information about the founders of the theory of evolution as they applied it to this remote area of the world, but also three excellent chapters at the book's end which describe the rebirth of the \\"son of Krakatoa\\" since 1883 and the rebirth of natural history on this ash-encrusted dystopic island.<BR>  The book is a bit chaotic at times because it tries to cover so much, including issues that some might consider of minor importance: for example, we get fascinating portraits of several of the Dutch governor generals; we get a fascinating portrait of Batavia, the large (one million) exclusive Dutch colonial outpost,  built (as it probably was) by slave or woefully underpaid labor; we are told of the seeds ofan important rubber plant from Brazil that miraculously escaped the holocaust aboard ship; we are told of a Muslim rebellion that was wiped out in its early stages by the Dutch military; we are told how the underground oceanic telegraph cables were laid; we are told of the Dutch novel that was influential in changing Dutch attitudes towards colonialism; we get eyewitness accounts of all the tremors which began in May, several months before the main event.	2003-07-21
US	42020202	RM5O3ZATVNRLN	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fairy tale quality	This narrative has a youthful or childlike quality.  Perhaps it's the mountainous ravines, with their brightly colored birds, between the remote Chinese villages.  It reminds me a bit of the film \\"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\\" especially the parts set in rural areas. Brief though it is, it is tightly written so that you get an engaging and informative story about a part of the world that is no doubt unfamiliar to most of us.The two protagonists are  upper middle class young men who be sent from the city to the remote villages as part of Mao's Cultural Revolution. They quite literally get the \\"excrement detail\\" from the Village Elders.  The Village Elder finds these two have a talent for storytelling (and dentistry as well) so they are sent from village to village, reciting movie plots to the rural populace.  There is a subplot concerning collecting old Chinese folktales, nearly all of them amorous, from an older gentleman. And of course there is the love story and the critical Western connection in the form of discovered Western classics, read to the rural inhabitants at night, which gives the book its cross-cultural appeal.  I would suggest watching the recent release of the film \\"The Count Of Monte Cristo\\", which novel receives quite a bit of attention, as educational material connected to this novel. In the end, the little Chinese seamstress decides to move to the city because she is so impressed by the writings of Balzac.	2003-07-10
US	42020202	R1879ANJNWHWYM	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	complex  sci-fi and historical novel	This is a complex work of fiction composed of 3 sections woven together like the parts of an Oriental rug: 1)The first, and the main, section is a historic reminiscence narrated by Iris Chase Griffen, daughter of a Canadin button manufacturer.<BR>Her upbringing in Port Ticonderoga, Ontario at the Avilion estate is portrayed in rich detail in a series of flashbacks, including her relationship with all members of her family and in particular, with her younger sister Laura. We are given a great deal of historic detail about this period, particularly about World War I and attempts at unionization of the button factory, and we are given details about several generations of Iris's family; in addition, both Iris and Laura's personalities are described in some detail and there are significant differences between them.   2)The second section is an elaborately detailed science fiction story which is woven between the chapters of the main narrative and is narrated by an unknown author to his unknown lover in a series of seedy apartment buildings, contrasting sharply with the opulence of Avilion. We do not understand the connection until the end. The science fiction story itself also contrasts for the most part significantly with the somewhat halcyon life at Avilion, since it includes a great deal of gratuitous violence and appears to be about some sci-fi tribe out of the Dark Ages. 3) The third section is a series of \\"newspaper articles\\" of familial or newsworthy interest which are interwoven between the other two stories. Through them, we learn more about World War I, about attempts at unionization of the button factory, about deaths in the family, and about social events significant to the family. Two of the most important deaths--Laura's and Iris's husband Richard's--are apparent suicides, and Iris's daughter Aimee also meets a violent end. All three strands are tied together in the last 50 pages with some surprising twists in the plot in the end; the whole narrative worksquite well and there are no loose ends. Two of the other well- developed characters are Richard's rather assertive and colorfully-attired sister, who defends her brother at all costs, and the sculptress Callista Fitzimmons.  <BR>Still I am rather hesitant to call this great literature, since parts of it are quite \\"salty\\" and remind me a bit of Stephen King in their detail: for example, Iris describes and interprets, several times, the graffitti inscriptions on rest room walls at a local donut shop. In this and in other respects she is throwing \\"everything including the kitchen sink\\" into her narrative and one might not be totally off the mark to call the whole thing somewhat ridiculous despite its considerable historical detail.	2003-06-24
US	42020202	RF07WMCUMDXNO	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	complex masterpiece	No book was ever more deserving of the Booker Prize, but one must be willing to put up with the unfolding of the plot which is something of a Chinese puzzle box.  It is also a bit better than the more recent \\"Oryx and Crake\\" though that, too, is very much worth reading.  \\"Blind Assassin\\" is narrated by an elderly dowager Iris Chase Griffen and it is, most broadly, a reminiscence of her complicated life as the daughter of a Canadian industrialist--a button manufacturer.  A great deal of time is devoted to her and her younger sister Laura's life as a child on the estate Avilion in Port Ticonderoga, Ontario.  The real world is present in the form of World War I and attempted union strikes, in this earlier age when capitalism was largely unchallenged by unions or environmentalism.  Many of these events, and others of a more familial nature, are encapsulated<BR>in newspaper articles which are included in the text. But the bigger \\"intrusion\\" in the broad narrative is a science fiction story, in alternating chapters, which we are led to believe until the end  was written by Iris' sister Laura.  A great deal, intentionally or otherwise, is made of the sibling rivalry between Iris and Laura.  Iris is presented as the more level-headed, she marries \\"well\\" (at least it seemed a good choice at the time); Laura is more impulsive, flighty, more given to go off on a wild tangent, more artistic (she learns how to tint or colorize photographs from a part-time job as a journalist) and she ultimately dies a tragic death early in the novel.  Much of the novel is devoted to attempting to understand the reasons for Laura's tragic demise.  So the time frame of this novel is a series of elaborate flashbacks interspersed with the science fiction story which, in notable contrast to Avilion, takes place<BR>in seedy apartment building in the course of a \\"lover's tryst\\"--but we don't learn the lovers' identities until near the end. In fact, there is a great deal we don't learn until the novel'sfinal 50 pages--but it all works very well in the end.  And anyone who is paying attention will learn quite a lot of history, too.	2003-06-24
US	42020202	R1P4CI4Q9HMUHK	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	social history of the early 20th Century	\\"The Blind Assassin\\" is a social history of the early 20th Century from the viewpoint of Iris Chase, the daughter of a prominent Canadian industrialist.  It is a portrait of a simpler capitalist age, before domination by unions or environmental regulation. Hence it is a \\"period piece\\" and also a long reminiscence by Iris, which largely focuses on the wealthier elements of society, sort of a literary \\"Titanic.\\"  It is an extremely detailed account of the upbringing of Iris and Laura Chase, and the impact of world events--World War I and II--on their lives, and of the attempted sympathetic response of their father to unionization.  Much of the early action takes place on the Chase estate Avilion in Port Ticonderoga, Ontario, which is described in some detail.  We are introduced to the Chase sisters' grandparents, their mother and father, housekeeper, and their instructors.  All of these people have a significant role to play in the novel.  Considerable attention is paid to sibling rivalry between Iris and Laura, and this rivalry contributes significantly to the plot and to the novel's outcome, which is somewhat unbelievable. The older Iris tends to dominate this rivalry.<BR>     The outsider in all this is Alex Thomas, a drifter and union organizer, who ultimately becomes one of the book's main characters.  Again, the similarities to \\"Titanic\\" should be noted.  Alex is the author of the somewhat confusing science fiction story whose chapters alternate with the other history.<BR>He is the underdog whom both sisters protect from the rapacious capitalists' prosecution.  They are both in love with him, equally.  Iris' husband Richard Griffen, another industrialist, turns out to be the novel's main villain, just as Alex turns out to be its most unlikely hero.	2003-06-19
US	42020202	R2OPGYRAGL0E2B	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	1	5	N	N	social history	Unlike her newer \\"Oryx and Crake\\" a pure science fiction satire on modern Corporate America, \\"The Blind Assassin\\" is largely social history of a Canadian industrialist's family in Port Ticonderoga, Ontario, with a secondary science fiction theme that until the end seems peripheral to the main plot.  The combination of science fiction and social history in alternating chapters, seemingly unrelated, works quite well until the two merge toward the novel's end.  The narrator in Iris Chase Griffen, the elderly daughter of a Canadian button manufacturer.  She has a younger sister Laura who invariably comes across as the less responsible of the two siblings.  Early in her life Laura confronts complex personal demons that get her expelled from school.  Laura has a tendency to act in a flighty manner, though we are led to believe until near the end that she is the noted authoress of the comic book-like science fiction novel \\"The Blind Assassin\\" for which she is posthumously honored.  The larger part of the novel is social history and is very informative about World War I and the union movements of the '30's and the Chase family's response to them.  Much of the action takes place at the Chase family's estate Avilion along the Jogues and Louveteau Rivers in Port Ticonderoga.  This is in contrast to the numerous seedy apartment buildings where the science fiction novel is unveiled, as part of an unnamed lovers' tryst.<BR>     Much of the novel is an attempt to unravel the mystery of Laura's apparent suicide which we learn of in the novel's first sentence.  When it comes time to marry, Iris marries \\"responsibly\\" to an industrialist, Richard Griffen, who is in a business similar to her family's.  After her father's death from alcoholism, Iris and Richard take Laura in and become her protectors.  It turns out that both Iris and Laura apparently had a lover's relationship with Alex Thomas, a drifter and union organizer who was accused in the '30's of setting fire to the button factory.  Laura also (apparently) had an unwanted incestuous relationship with Richard, a relationship she tolerated because it protected Alex from further prosecution.<BR>Alex, it turns out, is the author of the science fiction story; Iris is his lover and the authoress of \\"The Blind Assassin\\", and Alex is the father of Iris' daughter Aimee.  Winifred Griffin, Richard's sister, and the sculptress Callista Fitzimmons are two other finely drawn characters.  Which leaves the question: why did Laura commit suicide, or was it an accident?  Was it because she had recently learned of Alex's death in World War II?  And why did Iris try to convince the world that her sister Laura was the authoress of \\"The Blind Assassin\\" when Iris was in fact its authoress?	2003-06-15
US	42020202	R3TV97LFPVAW85	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	prissy period piece	First off, this novel was written by a member of my baby boomer generation. That does not necessarily eliminate the possibility of depth, but I don't think this book has as much depth as has been claimed for it by so many reviewers.However, I'm not British. The protagonist off this novel is a prissy precocious young girl named Briony who aspires to be a writer but who nearly destroys a young man's life by falsely accusing him of a sexual encounter. In the process of her writer's intention to see life from all angles, she overdoes it in this one case. <BR>The book is quite ambitious (or should that read wordy?) in scope and execution but is reduced in stature, in my opinion, by the tenuous nature of its main premise. The whole book hinges on one girl's fatal and intentional misapprehension of an event. Presumably this is a reflection of the sexual mores of the times and I can accept this, having grown up in the '50's which weren't much better. In \\"Amsterdam\\" the interpersonal tension, call it back-biting if you have to, is contemporary and among three adults, and that makes a little more sense to me. \\"Amsterdam\\" is also much shorter. Though I would not want to participate in euthanasia myself, still it is a morbidly amusing concept that I believe is very British.	2003-06-01
US	42020202	R2NU96CGV6COOC	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	3	7	N	N	well written account of the Oxford English Dictionary	The premise of this book is that a raving maniac, Dr. William Minor, confined to a British lunatic asylum in Victorian England, could make significant contributions during the day to the Oxford English Dictionary because of his high intelligence. At night, he really lost his grasp on reality. The nature of these delusions are enumerated in some detail. It is a sad history for, unlike John Nash, the mathematical prodigy of \\"A Beautiful Mind\\", psychiatry in Victorian England had not reached the advanced stage necessary to help Minor, so he died a raving madman. The editors of the OED are described as \\"philologists\\" and the painstaking process of putting together the dictionary, which included the contributions of thousands of individuals is documented. The historical scope and sweep of this book is vast, from the time of the American Civil War and before, to the descriptions of the seedier sections of Victorian London, to the 1930's when the OED was at last completed. The intent of the author, I believe, is to equate<BR>Minor's contributions with those of other productive madmen in history, like Vincent Van Gogh or the mathemetician in \\"A Beautiful Mind\\".	2003-06-01
US	42020202	R34L0785VHA2OT	0395963494	15085847	Bay of Souls: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Third World Thriller	I read this book twice, about two years apart.  The relatively short novel (much shorter than the overwhelming \\"Damascus Gate\\") has two main and quite different locales, each  described, in detail, in compressed prose: a college town in the upper Midwest, and a fictional island in the Caribbean, somewhere near Puerto Rico, named St. Trinity. Stone uses his literary gifts to evoke both cultures, as well as the politically unstable Haiti-inspired history of St. Trinity and other nearby islands including Cuba. What emerges is the great contrast between the Caribbean  and the  upper Midwest, with neither taking precedence in this sharply bifurcated novel.  All of these remarkable passages, which includes such fine details as a poker chip from the Caribe Hilton in San Juan,and numerous interesting people from both cultures, forms a backdrop for the more important issues of character development, mostly of the novel's two main characters.          Most reviewers have said the novel's protagonist is college professor Michael O'Hearn, who leaves his wife and son for an affair with Caribbean sex siren and political activist professor Lara Purcell.  O'Hearn is a man of limited faith, a liberal, in a very conservative Midwestern world, probably Minnesota. He hates to take his son to church services, where they \\"teach humiliation as a blessing.\\" Like Rev.Graham Hess in M. Night Shymalan's film \\"Signs\\", who loses his faith after the death of his wife in a car accident, O'Hearn is a believer in \\"random singularity\\", so that when his young son Paul recovers from a case of hypothermia, he does not view it as an act of God. His wife, long-boned, long-legged and descended from prairie sodbusters, can also be bitchy and beautiful--and she is increasingly interested in another man, one of Michael's colleagues.  As a result of some of these problems,and also out of boredom, Michael doesn't sleep well, and he has a drinking problem.      You could also argue, less persuasively, perhaps,that the novel's main protagonist  is Lara, who has lost her voodoo soul.She returns to her homeland St. Trinity, after her brother's death from AIDS, to retrieve it, as well as to rescue her brother from the land of the undead. If you had to choose you would probably say that the novel is mainly about the Third World, but the sections on the American Midwest, as for example on a Fall hunting expedition,inside a Catholic church service or an English classroom, are also quite noteworthy. Sports, including squash & racquetball, swimming, and particularly scuba diving as well as hunting, also play a central role in the novel,much more central, I realized, on a second reading. Professor O'Hearn also takes note of the cathartic effects of war, in dialogues with students. Stone also does a lot of name-dropping of various culturals icons:Hollywood, music, literature, mythology, religion (both Catholic and voodoo), history and politics, both real and fictional. There is an annotated \\"Bay Of Souls\\" on the Web.  The novel has quite an international scope, which includes France,Ireland, Argentina, Mexico, and Africa.         Michael O'Hearn recognizes in a self-deprecating way that he is by birth a Midwestern hick, though well-educated, and that his college town is in  \\"Flyoverland\\" to other parts of the U.S. Besides the rich tapestry of the prose, the novel's strength lies in O'Hearn's conscious decision to exchange a rather staid and sedate married lifestyle--a life with many benefits, though also with limitations--for one that is wildly uninhibited and dangerous, with a woman he loves and who loves him. Though he claims to  love Lara and wife Kristin equally, his relationship with Lara involves him in many inevitable deceptions. Certainly, by novel's end, he has learned something about the world outside his parochial academic Midwest.	2003-06-01
US	42020202	R36QR40D27LAAN	0805066527	598779908	A Death in Texas: A Story of Race, Murder and a Small Town's Struggle for Redemption	Books	4	2	4	N	N	South bashing	Another instance of journalistic bashing the South, though it appears to be richly deserved in this case. The reader will recognize that there are at least pockets of racist thought left in America. I don't think these three convicted murderers were losers from their childhood; they only developed their racist psychoses in jail, under extreme duress. To that extent, I don't consider their crime to be of the same evil magnitude as the Southern plantation owners. I would not want to be the one to try to rehabilitate them, however. Details are given about Texas' death row as well as the  racist societies in jail, which apparently are a form of male bonding under extreme conditions ; the most poignant moment is when the Jasper sheriff blows the murdered man's family a kiss following the reading of the guilty verdict. This kiss is a symbol of the town of Jasper's attempts to make immediate amends.	2003-05-31
US	42020202	R1ZPPFRTNM31DW	0385503857	264457638	Oryx and Crake: A Novel (Atwood, Margaret Eleanor)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	futuristic satire or allegory	At first one views this as a pure work of science fiction, complete with desolate futuristic landscapes, humanoids, and the distraught paranoid hero suffering from malnutrition and dressed in rags, searching the remnants of civilization for sustenance and human companionship, idolized as a god and misunderstood by the humanoids. It is \\"Planet Of the Apes\\" all over again. The novel also works well, perhaps better, as a satire of contemporary America: it has all the elements, disguised in the not-too-distant future; the corporate culture,computer games,the quest for eternal youth, the cut-throat college competition,the surveillance, the futuristic dysfunctional families,the poverty (those living outside the compound),the genetically-engineered animals and also child pornography. Atwood is not afraid of the grotesque--Oryx, sold into semi-prostitution, is a pathetic figure.  She is a love slave. Atwood has put \\"all her eggs in one barrel\\" in the figure of Oryx. All of the novel's other characters are successful corporate types--different levels of success, to be sure, but all part of the corporate culture.Crake, the boy genius, develops a race of humanoids who are devoid of agggressive or territorial impulses and who are preprogrammed to have sex in a regimented way. Then there are the numerous creatures, \\"pigoons\\" and \\"snats\\" for example, who are genetically engineered animals which appear to sometimes serve humanity, and sometimes to simply antagonize humanity. They certainly antagonize \\"Snowman.\\" These populate the book with some regularity and provide a minor theme for the reader as well as another pitfall for our hero. Atwood tends to minimize the importance of poverty or life \\"outside the compound.\\"	2003-05-31
US	42020202	R3UT56YHDUQVLJ	0091543304	157838067	Stranger on the Square	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Genius from the World War II generation	I first encountered Arthur Koestler after watching a video about a month ago on the Beach Boys' Brian Wilson, made in 1995, titled \\"I just wasn't made for these times.\\" Wilson mentions a book written by Koestler on creativity. Koestler was of the World War II generation, but I have probably ignored him to my<BR>own detriment. Still, I doubt that anyone will read this review. Most of his books are now in storage at my public library. He was an eclectic  writer  particularly in his later life, and his early life was extremely interesting and perilous. But he has since been replaced by other contemporary  authors of high intellect,men like Stephen Hawking or Carl Sagan, to name two. He was born in Hungary and lived in several different countries in the years leading up to World War II. He was an intellectual journalist, particularly interested in science, who was an early opponent of Naziism, but an early supporter of Communism in the 1930's, later abandoning his faith in Stalin. From this era came his most famous book, \\"Darkness At Noon\\" also a successful play on Broadway. He supported the Communists and was imprisoned during the Spanish Civil War, and was later placed in a dentention camp by the French. Later he travelled to Jerusalem, but he spent most of the World War II years as a soldier in Britain. As I recall, he was married twice before meeting Cynthia, who worked as his secretary. He met most of Europe's leading intellectuals including Sartre, Camus,de Beauvoir, Bertrand<BR>Russell, Dylan Thomas, and was frequently involved in and wrote about intellectual causes which would most accurately be described as pacifist or in the interest of worldwide intellectual freedom and peace following World War II. In the 1950's as described in the book he supported a British movement to abolish the death penalty and later supported a euthanasia movement.<BR>He lived in Paris, in London, and also in the United States for several years. He wrote several volumes of an autobiography which was quite complex. In his latter years, beyond the scope of this book, he became interested in research in the sciences, some of which one might describe as obscure, such as parapsychology, others such as psychological theory were merely current. His wrote historical biographies of famous scientists. All in all an interesting life,and though he was a writer by trade, his life was perhaps more like a movie star, perhaps Elizabeth Taylor. He had many female companions , and part of Cynthia's role was to protect him and his interests. The book alternates chapters in part one between Koestler and Cynthia; part two is written entirely by Cynthia.	2003-05-30
US	42020202	R4WYZF9QQ2QSG	0374199442	605719111	The Birds of Heaven: Travels with Cranes	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Gorgeous illustrations; interesting text	The most striking feature of this book is the color plates, which might make the book a nice gift for a birdlover.  This ornithological study works on at least 2 levels:1)it is a detailed study of the current knowledge of 15 species of cranes, most of which are endangered (The Sandhill crane of the US is an exception), efforts for preservation of the species, and ornithological details. To give the briefest example, some of the cranes are migratory,while others are not. Some migrate long distances, as does the crane that nests in Northern Asia and winters in India. The Sandhill crane, of North America, has the longest migration. Most produce only one egg per season, take more than one year to mature (unlike geese), and are subject to predation;the book enumerates the numerous efforts at preservation worldwide, which include using an airplane as an imprinted mother-figure, just like in the film \\"Fly Away Home.\\" Also there are preservation societies in many countries, including Cornell U. and in Wisconsin in America.   2) It also works as an historical and geographical travel guide to many remote areas of the world, including China, Mongolia, Siberia, Southern and Southeast Asia,Japan, Korea (where cranes inhabit the demilitarized zone) , Australia, England, Africa, and America-- all continents except South America. These cultures are alien in terms of religion, culture,politics and geography at least to me so reading about them presents a formidable challenge. The book is lavishly illustrated with pictures of these beautiful and diverse birds.	2003-05-30
US	42020202	R1DSAMAS46T1MD	0394402847	448449704	The Thirteenth Tribe	Books	4	15	20	N	N	History of the Khazar Empire	Intellectually challenging study of the Khazar Empire, its conversion to Judaism, and its (mostly warlike) interactions and intermarriages with the Rus, Magyar, and Bulgar tribes to the North and West, and with the Muslims and Byzantines to the South.  Original Muslim sources are quoted when the empire was at its height, from the 9th-11th Century.  After this time, it was defeated by the Rus Empire centered in Kiev and the rest of the book is devoted to possible dispersion theories, suggesting that most of the Khazars dispersed to the newly forming cities of Eastern Europe.  Koestler gives detailed evidence for this, part of which is that the Jews were much more populous in Eastern Europe than they ever were in Western Europe.  The last part of the book discusses genetic variation which was a consequence of the Jewish concentration in the ghettos of Eastern Europe.	2003-05-30
US	42020202	R2ER610H59HU09	0394402847	448449704	The Thirteenth Tribe	Books	4	25	31	N	N	History of the Khazar Empire	Intellectually challenging study of the Khazar Empire, its conversion to Judaism, and its (mostly warlike) interactions and intermarriages with the Rus, Magyar, and Bulgar tribes to the North and West, and with the Muslims and Byzantines to the South.  Original Muslim sources are quoted when the empire was at its height, from the 9th-11th Century. The Empire was known as far away as Spain.  After this time, it was defeated by the Rus Empire centered in Kiev, descendents of the Vikings, and the rest of the book is devoted to possible dispersion theories, suggesting that most of the Khazars dispersed to the newly forming cities of Eastern Europe.  Koestler gives detailed evidence for this, part of which is that the Jews have always been much more populous in Eastern Europe than they ever were in Western Europe.  The last part of the book discusses genetic variation which was a consequence of the Jewish concentration in the ghettos of Eastern European cities.	2003-05-30
US	42020202	R3BIOHAA30KYER	0385482493	460076600	The Gifts of the Jews: How a Tribe of Desert Nomads Changed the Way Everyone Thinks and Feels (Hinges of History)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Cliff's Notes for the Old Testament	This is in part a simplified version of the Old Testament for those of us who didn't have to go through Bar Mitzvah; in fact it might be considered a modern version of the Old Testament, with some introductory chapters about the Jews' antecedents, the Sumerians.(As they needed a newer version in King James' day, perhaps we need this one today.) All the major Jewish patriarchs and kings and myths are here; certainly at least some of it must be considered mythological in character. Cahill attempts to explain what is and was unique about the Israeli God as compared to the previous gods; his main point is that previous religions everywhere in the world had been cyclical whereas Jewish history is uniquely historical and allows for progress in the world, including scientific progress. Also, the Jewish religion allowed from the beginning a personal relationship with God, who actually revealed himself and created and influenced history(often, at least in the beginning, in a quite vengeful way)so that the frequent use of the pronoun \\"I\\" could be incorporated into the Psalms of David. Beforehand,he claims, there had been no possibility of individual psychology. Cahill's interpretation of the Sumerians' myths of Gilgamesh are interesting and similar to his treatment of Irish prehistoric myths in \\"How The Irish Changed Civilization\\" which is also an interesting read.	2003-05-29
US	42020202	R8KZNBE6CJ060	0691089264	835564493	Our Cosmic Habitat	Books	4	3	3	N	N	cosmology for the layman	Reading this book, my first in cosmology, I felt a bit like Jodie Foster in \\"Contact\\". It is doubtful you will find a better introduction to cosmology, particularly because through much of it, with a little imagination, Rees makes you feel you are riding a spacecraft. I have read two other books on theoretic physics since reading this one: Hawking's \\"Brief History of Time\\" and Kaku's \\"Hyperspace\\"; all three books focus on some of the main points since the modern concepts of physics are commonly held views.  All three, which incidentally are all reader-friendly on this difficult subject, cover the chemistry of stars, quantum mechanics, the formation of galaxies, the history and future of the universe. In my opinion, 3 is better than 1.  Rees' unique focus is on cosmic numbers; Kaku's focus is on higher dimensions and superstring theory; Hawking's is on black holes and the Big Bang.	2003-05-29
US	42020202	R3O51KVY5XSJM7	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	1	2	N	N	probably not as good as the hype	This book is probably not as good as the hype surrounding it, particularly because it centers on the sad and pathetic figure of Dr. William Minor who was truly mad, a madness that caused him and society some most unfortunate consequences, most obviously his incarceration in a British insane asylum for murder. I don't think it is necessarily in society's best interest to focus so much attention as this book does on a certifiable madman, and call him some kind of a intellectual hero, as Winchester attempts to do. Perhaps Van Gogh was another such case, but I consider this an unkind sort of mockery.  Perhaps his family is making some money off the book, but if I were them, I wouldn't want it advertised to the public. On the other hand, according to the book, his victim's widow did visit Dr. Minor late in life, so she at least apparently forgave him.	2003-05-29
US	42020202	R2VJYTGHLC6EE9	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	4	0	0	N	N	geology for those who didn't get  it in college	The worst charge that can be made against this book is that it is boring for someone without a consuming interest in geology, but it will clarify some issues that come up in college geology courses. The basic points are just two: 1)English geologic strata are tilted from the Northwest to the Southwest, so that exposed rock in the Northwest is much older than exposed rock in the Southeast of England, and all intermediate strata are of an intermediate age. 2)particular fossils are specific to particular strata. I find these two concepts understandable in their relative simplicity. The writing is not perfect, occasionally dense, but one does get a considerable feel for both the energy of the man and for early 18th century England, including coal mining,transport by canal, the Georgian city of Bath, the town of Scarborough, the state of geologic knowlege at the time at the great universities, drainage of fields to make them arable, sheep-shearings,the oolitic limestone of the Cotswolds, and other matters that may or may not be specifically geologically- related. The man is portrayed as an energetic intellectual who had both detractors and supporters. Geology at the time was a matter of theological debate. Before he came along, people really didn't know what to make of fossils, though they were considered collectible. Some of his detractors were in direct competition with him; one attempted to copy his map, which would today be a copyright infringement. His accomplishments were recognized late in his lifetime and presumably he died a happy man, though a pauper.He had serious financial problems starting in middle age. He is at least a poor man's Charles Darwin in stature.	2003-05-29
US	42020202	R3RQDVLPC3TRCX	0465027326	71283868	The Balkan Wars	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Entertaining but tragic history	The violence in this book is so appalling that it becomes almost amusing after a while.There is far more emphasis on violence than on culture. Some of the anecdotes are interesting, and nearly mythical in their dimensions, particularly the ones occurring in the 14th century--but also the stories surrounding at least two 20th Century political assassinations, stories surrounding the figure of Ali Pasha(and of the legendary Albanians who would not submit to his rule), the incredible brutality of the Turks against the Greek Orthodox Church in Constantinople during the Greek Independence Rebellion,and also against the Armenians, the story of the occupation of Constantinople during the 4th Crusade, and the like. One regularly encounters decapitations, genocide, highway banditry, and irregular armies in this book.  There is also some extensive discussion of the role of Europe (and Russia) in diplomatically resolving the conflicts in the region.	2003-03-26
US	42020202	R2FBU6JRPWWFPD	0316171816	813167919	Portraits of France	Books	4	6	6	N	N	triumph and tragedy	Should be read by anyone with an interest in France.  Each of the chapters deals with a different aspect of French culture, and they bind together to form an entertaining whole.  French history is the story of great triumphs in the arts, and great tragedies as well.  My own favorite personal chapters include the chapter on Bordeaux,which is Micheneresque in its complexity(he starts out by describing Bordeaux's complex river geology which makes it suitable for wine grapes, and continues through its prominent medieval families of wine growers and its tragic role in the French Revolution) , the first chapter on Nice, the incredibly tragic chapters on World War I and Charles De Gaulle's role in World War II, the chapter on Avignon and its popes,  the chapter on Le Puy and the Marquis de Lafayette's role in the American Revolution, and the chapter on Brittany--but I am leaving out quite a lot in this brief summary.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R187SJJ75M8VQY	0313233683	293943745	The Political Tradition of the West: A Study in the Development of Modern Liberalism	Books	3	1	1	N	N	erudite history of political philosophy	Designed as a survey text for a course in Western political thought, this book begins with the Greeks and Romans, continues with medieval Christian-dominated society, and moves on to secularization, the advent of Capitalist thought and individualism, the development of representative government,the antagonism between capitalism and social concerns and its resolution, and through to communism, socialism, and nationalism.  Watkins identifies some of the most important minds in political philosophy, including Hegel, Marx, John Stuart Mill, and many others.  Very difficult reading but comprehensive.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R3QOFO1UPNV54R	0920151108	752600139	Bach, Beethoven and the Boys - Tenth Anniversary Edition!: Music History As It Ought To Be Taught	Books	4	10	11	N	N	music history with humour	A relatively concise history of Western music with quite a lot of comic flair.  One also learns about aspects of Western culture one may have forgotten: such as, that musicians were commonly supported in Europe by their patrons who were wealthy dukes or had other hereditary claims. Also I learned that Handel visited Italy spent the latter part of his life in London and grew quite wealthy; that Bach was happily married but never wealthy, and that he lived in many different German cities; that Mozart was not rich at all;that Haydn visited London; that Tchaikovsky was prone to nervous ailments.  In the course of reading this book I borrowed the following CD's which assisted me in my understanding, as well as being enjoyable listening: Schumann's &quot;Songs For Children&quot;; Tchaikowsky's &quot;Symphony #6 (Pathetique)&quot;, several Beethoven piano sonatas including the Appassionata and Pathetique, Handel's &quot;Water Music&quot;; Mozart's opera overtures, Haydn's &quot;Surprise&quot; and &quot;Military&quot; symphonies.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R5KMXRZB7494F	0553210599	439774290	The Turn of the Screw and Other Short Fiction (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	clear, precise, even-handed stylist	Henry James wrote in a clear, precise even-handed American style that has not grown stale despite the passage of over 100 years. The two stories that stand out here to me are the two that are usually singled out by reviewers, \\"Daisy Miller\\" and \\"The Turn Of The Screw\\", the former because of its sensual European atmospherics and the fact that even back in 1900 an American female could be considered overly outgoing or prurient by community standards, even if she was probably just an extroverted American; the latter because James effectively creates the controlled terror of a ghost story involving children at a British greathouse, perhaps a bit like Poe.  But the other 3 stories all have something going for them: \\"The Jolly Corner\\", is also a ghost story,set in New York;  \\"The Beast Of the Jungle\\" creates a sense of mysterious suspense within the context of a couple's love relationship, and \\"Washington Square\\" is the story of a love relationship forbidden by the girl's <BR>sophisticated doctor father.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R35ZLV8V4OM2D5	068486715X	99054524	The Fire of His Genius: Robert Fulton and the American Dream	Books	4	2	2	N	N	pre-industrial genius	What stands out to me in this biography are his early years as a portrait painter in England;  the attempts to sell his inventions, the submarine and his mines, to Napoleon and later to the British, for profit; the erotic tryst he had with his friends the Barlows in Paris; his later attempts to maintain his patents on his steamboats on the Hudson and in New Jersey ,which he operated for his own profit, against competition; and the surrounding American history, which included the Lousiana Purchase and the Lewis & Clark expedition. Fulton was a true American entrepreneur who died at a premature age, burned out by his efforts.  The final chapter on his legacy to the commerce of the American heartland, the effects of which took place largely after his death, is also very impressive.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R25LA3TMCL00MR	0465057918	276025833	The Tsar's Last Armada	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Entertaining naval travelogue; devastating naval defeat	I read this book primarily as a travelogue learning more about the coasts of Western Europe, Africa, the Mediterranean, Southern Asia than I had ever before known.  But that is not the book's primary focus.  It can be read on several levels, one of which is surely as a travelogue.  But it is also a story of startling mismanagement.  The Russian Admiral, who is the book's principal figure, is opposed to the mission from the start,because the Russian naval fleet is outmoded, but Nicholas II , driven by revenge, and his advisers press on with the war armada.  One of the most interesting facts is that the Russian armada was actually composed of 4 armadas which by circuitous routes joined together for the final devastating defeat near<BR> Shanghai. The book is loaded with fine detail about the sailors' and officers' lives on board and at ports of call, which were mainly coal refueling stops; with details about the Russian, British, and Japanese spy network;about the fall of Port Arthur to the Japanese; and with details about the numerous cables between St. Petersburg and the doomed fleet.  A fine and rather easy read for anyone interested in this forgotten page of history.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R2AQTBKE9403S7	0920151108	752600139	Bach, Beethoven and the Boys - Tenth Anniversary Edition!: Music History As It Ought To Be Taught	Books	4	3	3	N	N	music history with humour	A relatively concise history of Western music with quite a lot of comic flair.  One also learns about aspects of Western culture one may have forgotten: such as, that musicians were commonly supported in Europe by their patrons who were wealthy dukes or had other hereditary claims. Also I learned that Handel visited Italy spent the latter part of his life in London and grew quite wealthy; that Bach was happily married but never wealthy, and that he lived in many different German cities; that Mozart was not rich at all;that Haydn visited London; that Tchaikovsky was prone to nervous ailments.  In the course of reading this book I borrowed the following CD's which assisted me in my understanding, as well as being enjoyable listening: Schumann's &quot;Songs For Children&quot;; Tchaikowsky's &quot;Symphony #6 (Pathetique)&quot;, several Beethoven piano sonatas including the Appassionata and Pathetique, Handel's &quot;Water Music&quot;; Mozart's opera overtures, Haydn's &quot;Surprise&quot; and &quot;Military&quot; symphonies.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	R2MKEJ8ROH4TMJ	0449903419	793767723	Chaucer: His Life, His Works, His World	Books	4	19	19	N	N	comprehensive biography	Extensively detailed biography of this medieval great poet, of interest to anyone interested in the intricacies of medieval history and literature. Definitely not for the dilettante, though much of it is quite readable.<BR>The book is approximately evenly divided between history and literary analysis.  We learn of Chaucer's role as a soldier in the wars with France; of his role as appointed court poet and custom's officer; of the black death; of his travels to Italy; we are given a great deal of detail about his literary influences on the Continent and his major literary works, not limited to  the Canterbury Tales.  Really more for the literary medieval scholar, though anyone interested in history might like it. We learn that Chaucer was probably in London at the time of the Peasants' Revolt.	2003-02-08
US	42020202	RRVUIMFKUNIUE	0743246470	505916468	It's Still the Economy, Stupid: George W. Bush, The GOP's CEO	Books	5	23	32	N	N	antidote for Bushonomics	On the night of November 5, in the aftermath of 9/11, America was in a vengeful, nasty mood. Karl Rove's campaign strategy was largely based on the politics of fear.  CNN was touting the latest in military technology on an hourly basis.  It was hard to find a liberal voice; Democrats were cowering in the corners.<BR>Whatever the possible merits of the Republican cause, it got  somewhat lost in the paranoia. Bush, to his everlasting credit, was frequently describing Islam as a \\"religion of peace\\" while maintaining a hard line against terrorists and Sadaam Hussein.  The net result was that the Democrats lost 3 incumbent senators.  This night \\"The New Yorker\\" described as the coronation of the Bush Dynasty.  I was looking for an alternative voice and found this book, and I'm glad I did.  Begala was a member of the Clinton Administration and is proud of Clinton's economic policies.  He is ruthless in tearing down every aspect of Bushonomics, and attacks President Bush personally on several levels--thus providing some democratic balance to a one-sided election.  It is an informative look at the first 2 years of the Bush Administration, with a definite and very strong Democratic bias.	2003-01-02
US	42020202	R21L0AS2KNIE1J	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	beautifully written novel	Criticisms, first: Stegner to some extent has &quot;tunnel vision&quot;; he is a member of his-- the World War II--generation.  This was shown clearly in &quot;Angle Of Repose&quot; where he expresses some scorn for the 60's generation, throughout.  In the case of &quot;Crossing To Safety&quot; he focuses almost exclusively on his own generation, with only the briefest mention of his children's lives, and thus ignores the contempory problems of American society, notably racial equality. Having said this, the book is an instructive, well written, and entertaining portrait of his (and my parents') generation, somewhat more <BR>effective than Tom Brokaw's &quot;Greatest Generation Speaks&quot; because it<BR> is an extended portrait of two families rather than very brief  (usually tragic or heroic) portraits of many families.  These<BR> were  literary people, though they certainly had many psychological problems, and the question of how they successfully excaped serving in World War II, evades examination.<BR>If one is able to view this work as it is--a somewhat limited work  that  focuses on the positive aspects and ignores the negative aspects of the World War II generation--then one can perhaps enjoy the descriptions of the Vermont countryside,the portraits of the Harvard-educated New England Brahmins (Charity's parents),  the frequent literary allusions, and the pleasures of international travel.	2002-12-21
US	42020202	R3GAF96KSN7V2T	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	graceful, wistful, romantic novel	Wonderful novel about the lives of two successful couples meeting each other in the Depression and growing together as friends in the years leading to World War II and afterwards.  One of the couples is independently wealthy; the other struggles financially, at least at the beginning of the novel. They are literary types. Literature enriches their lives, and is also a source of livelihood(just as music enhanced the lives of my parents who were of the same generation). They are all well travelled, not only within the United States, but also abroad.<BR>  Stegner focuses his literary gifts on bringing these couples' lives into focus. Tragedy strikes both couples: Sally, Larry's wife, has polio after a difficult childbirth; Sid, Charity's wife, suffers from a lack of assertiveness in his academic life, is unable therefore to rise in the academic ranks, and is a henpecked husband. Sid's dependency on Charity is one of the novel's main themes. Larry by contrast is quite aggressive, moving to Cambridge after a short time in Madison, Wisconsin,and a visit to Vermont,on the advice of Charity's father.  He becomes a successful novelist.  Much of the book, perhaps half, is set in Vermont, on a large piece of acreage of inherited property; we get detailed descriptions of the Vermont countryside and we are introduced  to Charity's relatives who are Harvard-educated and are New England Brahmins. The final chapters relating to Charity's death from cancer, are poignant, but every chapter enlarges our view of these two couples.  Picnics, camping, and travel abroad figure prominently in both couples'lifestyles. There is a fascinating chapter on Florence, Italy, and there are brief descriptions of the activities of both couples' many children (Sid and Charity had more kids than Larry and Sally)and also of their parents, though the personalities of these minor characters are not as well developed as the main protagonists.<BR>Aside from some descriptions of Italian Renaissance religiousart, religion \\"per se\\" does not play a prominent role in this novel, except mainly as it relates to literature and art and its meaning to the two couples.	2002-12-18
US	42020202	R1BD66GW0IUCZA	037575931X	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Graceful, wistful, romantic novel	A wonderful novel about how successful people acted in my parents' generation--I am 55.  Also probably the best book I have read by Stegner, possibly because it is the most contemporary.  Better than Tom Brokaw's \\"The Greatest Generation Speaks\\" because in that book we only get brief portraits of families, usually in tragedy, whereas \\"Crossing To Safety\\" provides a fuller view of American life in the Depression and years leading up to World War II.  I will admit I don't still understand the titles meaning. But though the main characters are literary types, they could as easily be business types. The whole country is their playground, from New Mexico to California to Wisconsin to Vermont to Cambridge, and they are international travellers, too.  Not that money was not a problem because it certainly was, at least in the early days for Larry and Sally (the other couple inherited wealth).  But the lasting impression is of joie de vivre,even in the final moving chapters on the death of Charity.  These people made the best of it, whether it be camping for a week or a year in Florence, Italy.  Overall they were the lucky ones, although both couples had serious problems, some of them physical, some of them psychological.  Sid suffered from a lack of self assertiveness and was always the henpecked husband.  Sally had polio after a difficult child delivery.  It is a testament to Stegner's writing skills that he could bring these couples' joy in living so clearly into focus--not to mention the joy of country living, particularly in Vermont.	2002-12-18
US	42020202	R3MEFLFUZDP9BW	0195144201	433958284	What Went Wrong?: Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response	Books	5	3	5	N	N	fallen behind Europe	This book, which is relevant to every American, describes how Islamic civilization, which was more resplendant than Europe's in the Middle Ages, has since become stagnant, falling behind the West in accumulation of wealth, female equality, separation of church and state, just government, science, and music. It gives a historic perspective and seems unbiased to me, except possibly with his claim that the Islamic World has been receptive to advances in Western military science, and to little else. Before reading this book, I was opposed to war with Iraq.  After reading it, and also an article about Iraq in the Nov. 23, 2002 issue of The New Yorker, I am at least receptive to such a war,<br /> because Lewis emphasizes the brutal thugs and dictatorial regimes which are commonplace throughout the Islamic World.<br />On the other hand, I would like to know a Muslim's response to these accusations.	2002-11-26
US	42020202	RCA1DSIU4IXDY	0140280561	905839252	How the Canyon Became Grand: A Short History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great intellectual history	This book is a great intellectual history of a subject that tends to be considered so trite as to be mundane.  In the course of the 20th Century the wonders of the Grand Canyon have been so often noted that they have become a cliche of commercialism. Pyne takes us back to the Spanish explorers and helps us to understand why their intellectual powers were inadequate to interpret the meaning of the Canyon when they first encountered it.  Pyne describes 3 great ages of exploration, and devotes considerable space to the explanation of the geology of the canyon, first discovered in the late 1800's by John Wesley Powell and his associates.  He also makes frequent reference to the human representation of the Canyon in art; he considers this, it would appear, to be as significant as its geology. He relates this art to the modernistic movements in Europe. He describes the advent of commercialism and of the ecology movement by men like Joseph Wood Krutch, who wanted the Canyon maintained in its pristine state for the enjoyment of all. He describes how the Canyon has become less important in scientific circles with the advent of the theory of plate tectonics and of crater impact zones, of space exploration.	2002-10-16
US	42020202	R1WHJ7QIZFYYQ4	0060955864	496866529	Down the Great Unknown: John Wesley Powell's 1869 Journey of Discovery and Tragedy Through the Grand Canyon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	new historical account	This is a new history of a famous exploration first written about by Wallace Stegner and by Powell himself in his long journals written several years after the journey in 1869.  Long passages are devoted to descriptions of the 4 inadequate boats traversing the whitewater rapids. As is repeatedly pointed out,the boats have been notably improved since 1869.  Dolnick repeatedly refers to more recent journeys down the Colorado and the reasons for their greater success.  Frequent mention is also made of the provisions that often had to be carried around the rapids,with great personal strength and effort, and that finally nearly ran out.  Fortunately, Powell chose his men for their courage, and all made it through, except for 3 who quit near the end and were killed, according to history, by Indians.  Powell is noteworthy for his intellectual curiosity which results in numerous episodes of fossil-hunting and cliff climbing.  He was more intensely involved in this venture than the others, which resulted in great personal danger; another result was that his men considered him to be something of an autocrat.  He paid them inadequately or not at all.  He apparently recognized that what he was doing was an important geologic and exploratory expedition.	2002-10-16
US	42020202	R2N1L6V7I4KB0E	0140280561	905839252	How the Canyon Became Grand: A Short History	Books	5	2	2	N	N	broad world view	Pyne puts the Grand Canyon in the context of world history with numerous references to the &quot;First, Second, and Third Ages Of Discovery&quot;, the first represented by Coronado, the second represented by Powell, the third represented by space exploration, and with numerous references to geology, (somewhat surprisingly) to art, and to nature writing.  This book details the extensive geologic exploration of the canyon in the late 1800's, the art it produced, and the effects of European trends in art on the Canyon art, and the changing view of the canyon as a result of space exploration and environmentalism.  A lucid and compelling work.	2002-10-13
US	42020202	R130MQBJ4Q3M19	0060955864	496866529	Down the Great Unknown: John Wesley Powell's 1869 Journey of Discovery and Tragedy Through the Grand Canyon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	whitewater rapids	The principal focus of this history is the whitewater rapids, at least 20 of which are described in some detail.  It helps to have some knowledge of whitewater rafting, I'm sure.  This was also the most problematic part of the expedition.  But all of Powell's associates and adventures are described in some detail. Powell chose his men for their experience and courage--several of them had accompanied him on a previous Rocky Mountain expedition.  Many previous and more recent trips on the Green and Colorado round out the narrative,and frequent mention is made of Powell's autocratic personality, which may mean that he put more personal energy into the venture than did his companions. He was always climbing cliffs and doing measurements. He, however, having only one arm and an officer's personality, developed in the Civil War, did not do a majority of the dirty work, which included frequent &quot;lining and portaging&quot;; he left that to the others.  But he wrote a more complete journal than any of the others, which is frequently <BR>quoted by Dolnick.  Powell waxed rhapsodic over the visual pleasures of the Grand Canyon, which he saw with the eyes of a trained geologist.  The boats were mostly inadequate for the task, and the food, which seems pretty bad by modern standards, was a constant concern, and nearly ran out.	2002-10-08
US	42020202	R2D1FC6F6PE3BI	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	4	0	1	N	N	exotic memoir	I think this is a reasonably interesting and challenging read, though it is wordy.  I thought the recollections of the World War II era and the other historical sidelights added to my knowledge.  I thought the first half of the book, in which the girl is torn away from her family in her little fishing village (also from her sister),while very sad, was a little better- told than the second half, though this is actually a straight line success story, from abject poverty to great success. Her apprenticeship, beset by jealousies, was interesting, with its many informative pages about the geisha's necessary talents, such as dancing and tea-service.  Her elaborate coiffure, while not comfortable for her, also caught my interest.  The book is tediously wordy, however.  I thought the scenes with the baron were amusing.	2002-10-07
US	42020202	R3EZYRT495FJ3M	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	4	0	0	N	N	exotic memoir	I think this is a reasonably interesting and challenging read, though it is wordy.  I thought the recollections of the World War II era and the other historical sidelights added to my knowledge.  I thought the first half of the book, in which the girl is torn away from her family in her little fishing village (also from her sister),while very sad, was a little better- told than the second half, though this is actually a straight line success story, from abject poverty to great success, since in the latter half of the book her relationships are with notably successful Japanese businessmen. Her apprenticeship, beset by jealousies, was interesting, with its many informative pages about the geisha's necessary talents, such as dancing and tea-service. There are many scenes in teahouses throughout. Her elaborate coiffure, while not comfortable for her, also caught my interest.  The book is tediously wordy, however.  I thought the scenes with the baron were amusing.	2002-10-07
US	42020202	R6AHSZW2D1XGK	0446604275	218513537	Primary Colors	Books	4	3	4	N	N	skeletons in the closet	Like its companion novel \\"The Running Mate\\", the main message of this novel is that politics is a dirty business and that any politician can be threatened or brought down by skeletons in the closet, as we have seen, in Nixon, Clinton, and most recently with NJ Senator Bob Toricelli.  The main protagonist Gov. Jack Stanton is supposedly based on Clinton and there are obvious similarities, including the fact that he has an ambitious, intelligent wife.  In this novel we are privy to the inside workings of a political primary campaign.  There are excellent sketches of some of the minor characters, including Momma, Stanton's mother, and Henry, the narrator, and some of the other campaign workers and politicians are pretty well developed as characters.  There are substantial amounts of subtle humor and also quite a bit of sexual innuendo directed at Stanton, another similarity with Clinton. Stanton's campaign workers will go to any lengths to dig up dirt from the distant past on an opponent, and they must likewise protect their candidate from similar accusations. All in all I found it to be an interesting, fast read.	2002-10-03
US	42020202	RXS5BTRWQ60NP	0141185015	55536247	Wolf Willow: A History, a Story, and a Memory of the Last Plains Frontier (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	wistful retrospective	Part history and part dreamy reminiscence, this book is an account of a boy growing up in Southwest Saskatchewan in the early part of the 20th Century. The central portion of the book is pure history, and the long chapters on cowboys are particularly challenging because they require an intimate knowledge of cowboy terminology.  Stegner does not mince words about the difficulties of life on the plains--extremes of heat and cold, wind, hostile topography, lack of cultural amenities--the result of which is that most who grew up there moved elsewhere.  But he also shows a passionate attachment for the country of his childhood.  The narrative often seems rambling because, like James Michener, the author tries to incorporate so much besides history--including the biology and geology of the nearby Cypress Hills, the biologically diverse area nearby--and even his poetic musings have elements of fact, as when he describes the wind, or the gophers, or his swimming hole, or his school, or his family's homestead, or the problems involved in the town's incorporation.	2002-09-30
US	42020202	R2F2O6NLFBKLLH	014016930X	21744022	Angle of Repose (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	poignant, wistful retrospective on the 19th Century	This book is really two books: the primary story concerns the history of the marriage of the narrator Lymon's grandparents; the secondary story is a largely derogatory commentary on the alternative lifestyles of the early 1970's, starring Shelly,Lymon's caretaker and secretary, the sexually \\"liberated\\" Berkeley student.  Not being an engineer, I'm not sure I can fully appreciate all the nuances of his grandfather's job, but in any case this in secondary to his intellectual and sophisticated Quaker grandmother's career. Moving out West after marrying his<BR> far-less-intellectual grandfather, she chronicles the opening of the West in the late 1800's by sending back sketches and written profiles to Eastern intellectual magazines, while also keeping up a prolific correspondence with her best friend back East, Augusta. The main tension in the novel arises from the conflict between her intellectualism and his macho lifestyle, and their somewhat difficult life in California, Colorodo, Mexico, and most notably,in Idaho, where she attempts to raise her two children (a third dies young) in something approaching Eastern civility. She appears to be somewhat happy as a young bride but becomes increasingly disconsolate as time passes since her husband's schemes often fail. Further, he is the silent type, though he does try his best to provide for her. The novel focuses on the first 20 years of their marriage, culminating in an extra-marital affair of some sort by his grandmother, for which his grandfather never forgives her; but they do nevertheless live out the remaining decades of their lives together in California, somewhat uneventfully. As counterpoint to this wistfully-told story is the conflict between the narrator and the Berkeley-educated countercultural Shelly, who takes care of the narrator in his old age. Lymon, a former professor, believes in the importance of history and tradition while Shelly, as well as his own son, rebel against history, espouse the sexual revolution, and want to remake society from the ground up. Lymon's wife also leaves him after having an affair, further complicating his life, and paralleling the life of his grandmother.  The novel also abounds in subtle humour particularly in reference to Lymon's self-deprecating wit regarding being confined to a wheelchair, and his relationship with Shelly.	2002-09-19
US	42020202	R17R7XOL5OSSZL	0385335601	94741593	The Running Mate	Books	4	8	8	N	N	serio-comic  political novel	This novel is a compelling sequel to \\"Primary Colors\\" and while similar in some ways, there are also significant differences. For one thing, this novel is placed in the Midwest,perhaps Nebraska, not the South, a significant difference, and there is less emphasis on New York atmospherics than in \\"Primary Colors\\", although they are not completely absent.  \\"Primary Colors\\" is narrated by a black man and there is correspondingly more emphasis on blacks in that novel. Also, there is a torrid love interest for the protagonist which is a primary theme of \\"Running Mate\\", also absent from \\"Primary Colors\\". Finally, because the protagonist, Charlie Martin, is a decorated Vietnam Veteran, there is far more emphasis in  \\"Running Mate\\" on Vietnam, whereas the primary focus of past wars in \\"Primary Colors\\", where it exists at all, is on World War II.  Vietnam pervades \\"Running Mate\\" like a sick, ghostly presence.  Both novels, however, focus on the cut-throat aspects of politics with equal precision and emphasis.	2002-09-19
US	42020202	R14LNC0P1YAIV6	0375756787	693970523	The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Trenchant, penetrating biography	I was particularly interested in the following aspects:<BR>a)5 men, and there were no doubt others, who at times stood in the way, or tried to, of his great ambitions: 1. Marquis de Mores in Medora, N.D., who challenged him to a duel,actually due to a misunderstanding. 2. John Wanamaker, when he was Civil Service Commissioner. 3. Andrew Parker, when he was New York's Police Commissioner. 4. Senator Platt of New York, who actually engineered placing him on the ticket with McKinley as VP in 1900 because his Progressive tendencies were beginning to show as NY's governor. 5. Mark Hanna,head of the Republican Party at this time, opposed to TR's selection as VP.  b) His two great loves, Alice Lee and Edith Carow.  c. His literary productiveness.  d. His great courage, demonstrated numerous times, which including staring down, Crockett-like, a grizzly bear.  e. &quot;The ones who rolled over and played dead&quot;, most notably John D. Long,of the US Navy Dept. who tended his garden while TR ran the department and gave voice to his expansionist beliefs, nominating Dewey to head the Pacific Fleet.  This list may have also included  Pres.McKinley. f. His lifelong friends, most notably Henry Cabot Lodge and Henry Adams.	2002-07-31
US	42020202	R153S8TFXLDXFX	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a woman's place in 1867 NYC	Although this book is a bit of a laborious read at 750 pages, it is just as compelling as \\"The Alienist\\".  The entire team of criminologists, led by Dr. Lazlo Kreitzler, is back.  The atmospherics of 1867 New York City are back, as are the disreputable characters and gang members such as Stevepipe the narrator, the Hudson Dusters, the very poignant cocaine addict Kat (Stevepipe's girlfriend),  the Filipino hitman El Nino, the civil war vet Micah Hunter, Hickie and his pet ferret, the more reputable prosecuting attorney Rupert Picton.  The serial killer this time is a woman, Libby Hatch,with seductive eyes, every bit<BR>as much of a mass murderer as John Beecham.  In this case, she murders her own children, and also those she has cared for or kidnapped.  Her problem is society's problem, namely that women are seen as nurturing mothers.  Any other role is unacceptable,<BR>as Dr. Kreitzler explains.  But Libby is not a good mother.  Failing to recognize this, she blames the children for their health problems, not realizing she is in fact poisoning them.  She considers her role a selfless one and considers herself guiltless right up until her death, as does the Vanderbilt family. The wealthy, as in \\"The Alienist\\", want to ignore the crimes and keep the mass murders out of the newspapers. There<BR>are mobs in upstate New York who recognize Libby as a killer but fear retribution from the Hudson Dusters, the New York street gang that protects her. We again have cameo appearances by famous individuals including women's rights activist Elizabeth Stanton, defense attorney Clarence Darrow, and Theodore Roosevelt.  In this book, there is quite a bit of historical information regarding Spanish-American relations at the time of the Spanish-American War, but in the end, somewhat surprisingly, the initial kidnapping victim, Ana, daughter of the Spanish counsel, emerges unscathed from her ordeal.  It's probably also worth noting that the Spanish counsel beats his wife, a common practice in 1897.	2002-07-25
US	42020202	R3GUJV5JU21OZV	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	women's role in 1896 New York society	A somewhat laborious read at 750 pages, this novel still has a lot going for it.  The principal difference is that in this case the serial killer is a woman; therefore we are dealing throughout with women's role in society, and its impact on the killer, Libby.  In &quot;The Alienist&quot; we were dealing with racism and a lack of a nurturing environment for the killer as a root cause. Libby is not a very nurturing mother, which she is unwilling to admit to herself; but this is the role held in highest esteem for women in society.  Libby, unwilling to admit to her own incompetence, instead blames the children, and has a blind spot to the fact that she poisons or shoots them, believing instead that she is helping them.  Until the trial, most people believe the same thing, so that she has an excellent reputation as a nurse, convincing even the Vanderbilts.  Many of the townspeople in upstate New York, however, fear her, as do many in New York City where she is &quot;protected&quot; by the Dusters street gang. As was true of  its predecessor, &quot;The Angel of Darkness&quot; is strong on atmospherics of turn-of-the-century New York; in addition, it contains many interesting if repugnant characters, including Goo Goo Knox, Ding Dong, the very poignant Kat (Stevepipe, the narrator's,girlfriend, and a cocaine addict) and El Nino the Filipino hitman. Also, the Spanish ambassador's infant daughter, kidnapped in the book's opening pages, ends up alive and healthy, somewhat amazingly.The cast of criminologists is the same as in &quot;The Alienist&quot;. We also again have cameos by famous people, the most interesting of whom, again, is Roosevelt, though he doesn't appear until near the end of the book.  So if you can slog your way through the first 600 pages, you will be rewarded with a &quot;bully&quot; conclusion.	2002-07-25
US	42020202	RGT83CER1HV5J	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	1	1	N	N	women's role in 1896 New York society	A somewhat laborious read at 750 pages, this novel still has a lot going for it. The principal difference is that in this case the serial killer is a woman; therefore we are dealing throughout with women's role in society, and its impact on the killer, Libby. In \\"The Alienist\\" we were dealing with racism and a lack of a nurturing environment for the killer as a root cause. Libby is not a very nurturing mother, which she is unwilling to admit to herself; but this is the role held in highest esteem for women in society. Libby, unwilling to admit to her own incompetence, instead blames the children, and has a blind spot to the fact that she poisons or shoots them, believing instead that she is helping them. Until the trial, most people believe the same thing, so that she has an excellent reputation as a nurse, convincing even the Vanderbilts. Many of the townspeople in upstate New York, however, fear her, as do many in New York City where she is \\"protected\\" by the Hudson Dusters street gang. As was true of its predecessor, \\"The Angel of Darkness\\" is strong on atmospherics of turn-of-the-century New York; in addition, it contains many interesting if repugnant characters, including Goo Goo Knox, Ding Dong, the very poignant Kat (Stevepipe, the narrator's,girlfriend, and a cocaine addict) and El Nino the Filipino hitman.<BR<BR>>The cast of criminologists is the same as in \\"The Alienist\\" led by Dr. Lazlo Kreitzer, the alienist. We are also treated to some suspense because at one point only Libby's surviving daughter knows the truth, and she is unable to speak until encouraged to by the gentle Dr. Kreitzler.  We also again have cameos by famous people, the most interesting of whom, again, is Roosevelt, though he doesn't appear until near the end of the book. So if you can slog your way through the first 600 pages, you will be rewarded with a \\"bully\\" conclusion.	2002-07-25
US	42020202	R3CYAAZFXKHSBG	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Dark chilling thriller	Not the best midnight read, nor recommended for campsites, this novel is of limited long-range artistic significance, despite its gallant attempts to chronicle at some length the beginnings of psychological criminology. The serial killer is actually a composite, or an archetype--not too different from Freddy Kreuger of the Friday the 13th movie murders.  His personality is pretty bad, but Dr. Laslo Kreitzler, the psychologist, is somewhat sympathetic.  Mostly, he wants to catch him, to spare New York City of 1896 any further tragedy. But Kreitzler has enemies,the political establishment and mob thugs, who want to maintain the status quo and conceal the case from the city's poor immigrant population who might rise up in anger.  The novel is filled with racism against American Indians, women, blacks, and immigrants.  For this reason , it is a difficult and a depressing read.  There is a certain amount of humour in the serial killer's defining characteristics, though the total atmosphere, described in some detail, is pretty bleak.  Theodore Roosevelt, soon to be on the national ticket, at least sees the wisdom of enlisting Kreitzler's aid in catching the killer.	2002-07-11
US	42020202	R39SRX3L64VL7Q	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	0	2	N	N	non-fiction travelogue novel with large doses of humour	This is a comedy disguised as a well-written travelogue with a host of motley characters, that is somewhat coincidentally the story of a murder trial. The setting of the non-fiction novel is Savannah, Ga. which is known for its insularity, its welcoming attitude towards visitors, its economically varied history, its dedication to historic preservation,its parties and for its famous former residents, like songwriter Johnny Mercer and  poet Conrad Aiken.The protagonist Jim Williams is a shrewd antiques dealer. He is fond of travelling to Europe on buying<br />sprees and of giving Christmas parties. He also has a gun collection, which becomes quite important later on. The book contains a host of comic characters treated in a someone deadpan style so that one might not recognize them in fact as comic. They include an ex-inventor who now wants to poison Savannah's water supply; a voodoo priestess Minerva and a black drag queen Chablis, the two funniest characters in the book;a sultry songstress; many super-rich Savannahs associated with historic preservation, one of the book's main themes; the defense attorney for Williams, who is more interested in UGa. football than in the trial. Williams and his assailant turn out to be latent homosexuals, another comic touch. The accused is convicted three times in Savannah; later acquitted in Augusta;he dies a year later of a heart attack, unable to enjoy his freedom--a fitting and somewhat comic end to this Rabelaisian tale.	2002-07-01
US	42020202	R36EABSED4OIX6	0449217264	432599282	Alaska	Books	4	12	13	N	N	fine historical fiction	Mr. Michener is known for his lengthy descriptions, but if you stick with it, you will be rewarded with a great deal of historical knowledge about Alaska. I have also read \\"Journey\\" so I know more about Alaska than perhaps I ever cared to know. Michener really brings his writing talents to the table in the final chapter about modern Alaska. The basic issue in the final chapter is the conflict between modern culture and traditional culture. Kendra, a teacher of Eskimos from Utah, ends up having to make a marriage choice between an idealistic lawyer who supports Alaska's traditional or subsistence cultures, Jeb Keeler, and the grandson of a Seattle business executive who works as a scientific worker on an iceberg and ran<BR>in the <BR>Iditarod dogsled race, Rick Venn. Perhaps surprisingly, she chooses Venn, mostly because of his noble behavior in the dogsled race, when he sacrifices his chance to win to aid a fallen comrade.<BR> The third main character in the final chapter is Poley Markham, also a lawyer from Phoenix, who attempts to take advantage of the numerous legal problems that arise in connexion with the Alaska Native Settlements Act,making himself instantly wealthy. He is on the side of modernism,unlike Jeb, and with his rather macho personality has a strong side- interest in hunting which he shares with Jeb, and which is the final chapter's main subplot(hunting the\\"The Alaskan Big Eight\\"). There are others --the scientific expert on tsunamis is an important one. The ethical questions Kendra must face in connection with her Eskimo students are touching and are well developed. Michener occasionally uses tragedy if it serves his purposes, as it does here. A suicide and an unexpected death are symptoms revealing many of the problems of traditional cultures.<BR> We are also repeatedly told how and why everything is more expensive in Alaska, due to the Jones Act of 1920. The lawyer Jeb Wheeler is finally killed by a tsunami in the climax of the book, perhaps alsorevealing Michener's views of liberal lawyers.<BR>All chapters are similarly developed so that by the end one gets a real feeling for Alaska's traditional cultures, and a lot<BR>more too. On the scientific side, we get geology, anthropology, oceanography, biology, including getting inside the minds of mammoths and salmon. We are introduced to a great deal of Russian colonial history in the early chapters as it relates to Alaska;to a great deal of seafaring lore including the hunt for sea otter and seal pelts, and to the destruction of the Eskimo's way of life by alcoholism , courtesy of an unscrupulous sea captain. We go on several whale hunts and are given details about them and the harpoons. By the time the Americans enter the picture, we are ready for the poor management; all the swindlers connected with the Gold Rush, which gets a thorough treatment, focusing on the Klondike and on Nome. Michener carries the characters from this period, and their progeny, through to the end of the book. There is then a long chapter on the salmon industry which tells us how the industry unscrupulously took advantage of the Jones Act of 1920, which puts all economic power in the hands of Seattle businessmen at the expense of native Alaskans. We are introduced to Sam Bigears of the Tlingit tribe, his daughter Nancy, and to Ah Ting, the Chinese worker who can repair machines but who is ultimately replaced by machines. In the next-to-last chapter we learn of the Japanese invasion of the Aleutian islands during World War II and the building of the Alcan Highway, as well as to the adventures of Leroy Flatch, the \\"bush pilot\\". There are numerous other sub-plots, and we also get a real feel both for Alaska's oceans, glaciers, icebergs, mountains, vocanoes, and earthquakes.	2002-07-01
US	42020202	R3T9LZM014Q5R1	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	0	0	N	N	finely crafted biography	Although Adams was an ardent supporter of unpopular causes for most of his adult life, starting with his defense of the British soldiers in the Boston Massacre, and continuing with his ardent revolutionary fervor, he seems to me to have been somewhat lost in Paris, though his single most fervent aspiration,the involvement of the French Navy in the American Revolutionary War, did come to pass, at last. He seems to be somewhat victimized by his Puritan upbringing which carried with it a narrowness of outlook, or a certain prudery in the face of the sophisticated French.  Both Jefferson and Franklin come across as much better able to cope with Paris' sophisticated outlook;<BR>Jefferson with his antique-buying expeditions, and Franklin with his womanizing. Until the arrival of his wife Abigail in Paris, Adams was a somewhat under-appreciated recluse. But the fact is, in the end, Adams got the job done, and the Americans won the war. Later, Adams as president was again underappreciated, in fact castigated by the press and his own Cabinet.  Jefferson, in his total support of the violent French Revolution, comes across as more politically aware than Adams; Adams viewed Jefferson as a shameless opportunist, even leaving the White House early on the morning of Jefferson's inauguration to avoid meeting with him.  I think in large part Adams performance in his later life was based on his early Puritan upbringing.	2002-06-17
