US	42100785	R153CSVSMGGLXK	0886778999	570837980	The Golden Key (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Rich, unusual historical fantasy	I was attracted to this book by Melanie Rawn's involvement, having enjoyed her Dragon Prince/Dragon Star trilogies a great deal for their dry wit, excellent characterisation and compelling plotting. I had only a vague idea of what it was about before I started reading - but once I did, I was completely entranced. <br />The multi-generational novel is set in a world with a strong feel of Renaissance or early modern Spain. While never leaning too much on its real-world counterpart, the inspiration permeates all levels, immeasurably enriching the book. It is glimpsed most obviously in the characters' names, fashions and the oaths that pepper their speech. More subtly, it infuses the religious practices, behaviour (there is a strong emphasis on family honour and female modesty), and recent history - the novel opens a little after a long war with a religiously-inclined nomadic people, an obvious but not overstated parallel with the Moors.  <br /> <br />The central conceit of the novel lies in the social and administrative role of portraiture in the state of Tira Verte, where it is used to record everything from marriage contracts to wills to treaties between nations. Those whose paintings are most highly valued enjoy considerable political and personal influence, and their style becomes something to imitate by those who follow them. A few, in secret, are able to wield more than mere influence with their brushes.  <br /> <br />The story follows the fortunes of two noble families, and the consequences of one rashly destructive act (try to ignore the synopsis on the back of the book, which gives this act away), through several generations. Throughout, not only the story but also the world progress naturally and fascinatingly, as artistic fashions change and the society develops and diversifies. It is told in three parts, with each author taking one generation of characters - respectively: Roberson, Rawn, and Elliot. Melanie Rawn's section is the stand-out, but all three arehighly accomplished pieces of writing, gripping and fluent as they tackle themes as varied as the relationship between art and artist, the moral responsibility of power, and the position of women in a highly-regulated society. <br /> <br />Highly recommended.	2005-03-02
US	42100785	R20GSCSP04SBFC	0679777431	999153365	The Game of Kings (Lymond Chronicles, 1)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Triumphant beginning to the series	I'd heard that the Lymond Chronicles were good. I'd heard that Dunnett's writing and world-building were dauntingly clever, and that Lymond himself was dazzling. I'd heard that I wouldn't be able to put the book down. <br /> <br />All of which turned out to be true, and more. From captivating opening to satisfying conclusion, _The Game of Kings_ never attempts to hide the fact that it's a novel for those who like their historical fiction authentic and serious. For all the outpourings of devotion readers have lavished over Lymond down the years, this is no romantic fluff; it's densely packed, desperately clever, and richer in tone and texture than any book has a right to be. Simultaneously - and despite the great array of characters (both historical and purely fictional), intricate political machinations, and multi-lingual literary allusions - Lymond's first outing is pacy and gripping enough to make any activity that delays reaching its end seem like a waste of valuable time. <br /> <br />Lymond himself, renegade and outcast Francis Crawford, is quite simply one of the finest epic heroes I've encountered in fiction: brilliant, learned, witty, accomplished - and tormented. Not that this is immediately obvious; the novel opens with Lymond as a bitter, brutal, silver-tongued bully with an outlaw band in tow, burning down his mother's home and stealing the family valuables. Dunnett keeps his complex motives shadowed, as befits a man who has learned at cost what it is to have his trust comprehensively betrayed. It is only as he becomes closer to people (Lady Christian, Will Scott, and eventually his brother) that we begin to see beneath his glittering, casually-malicious facade. As a result, the reader (this reader, at least) grows into a more gradual, but much deeper and well-rounded, understanding of the character than if he'd been superficially likeable from the start. <br /> <br />Accomplished and utterly compelling historical fiction, which kept me guessing right tothe end. Throughly recommended.	2005-02-23
US	42100785	RWDQKTYFJJEVZ	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Elegant, witty and absorbing debut	I adored this book. With so many glowing reviews already here there's little left for me to say; I just want to add my voice to the chorus of appreciation.  <br /> <br />_Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell_ is a complete delight from beginning to end: vivid characters and a rich alternate 19th-century setting are wrapped up in smooth, confident prose. There are definite shades of Austen in the narrative voice - arch, witty, clever, self-aware - but it's much more than just an intelligent pastiche. It's a tightly-controlled novel with an absorbing plot that simultaneously manages to evoke interesting themes from both its historical (social hierarchy and its discontents, rationality vs. spirituality) and its fantasy (the morality of magic-use) aspects. 'Real-life' characters turn up, but are used carefully and sparingly - and, in the case of Byron, hilariously.  <br /> <br />Those who like their books rapid-fire and dare I say a little more obvious may rail against its apparent lack of 'action' - but to do so is to miss the point. This is a book about rather more than just plot (although, frankly, it has plenty of that, too...). It is a character-study and a period-piece, and any dissimilarities with contemporary fiction in terms of pacing are entirely in keeping with the style and form the author intends. You're unlikely to find a more elegant, amusing and intelligent fantasy novel this year. Highly recommended!	2005-02-23
US	42100785	R2IGAMA97Y3MAS	0141007400	751969775	A Telling of Stars	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful and affecting	I picked up a copy of this in Canada just over a year ago, and it easily lived up to its recommendations. _A Telling of Stars_ is a short, lyrical and moving novel about a young woman's struggle to cope with the brutal murder of her entire family. It is a fable, in essence, which makes deft use of a fantasy world to explore how grief can both harm and heal.  <br /> <br />Jaelle's journey is both an emotional and a literal one: driven by grief and anger to seek revenge, she travels through Sweet's poetic fantasy world. Along the way, she grows and changes with every new encounter and situation, slowly moving from the extremities of loss and despair into a deeper understanding (if not without bitterness) of herself and of human relationships.  <br /> <br />The prose is heavily poetic, even sonorous, frequently weaving its colourful world through sound and imagery rather than direct description. It may not be particularly fast-paced, or gritty, or filled with labyrinthine plotting - rather, this is a quieter triumph, and it _will_ stay with you.	2005-02-23
US	42100785	R13ETDVJFI0EW1	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Fiction masterclass	_Atonement_ is fascinating curio, not wholly successful but noble in the attempt: a compelling, self-reflexive tale about compelling, self-reflexive storytelling. Its centrepiece is Briony, a shy, withdrawn child who lives in a world of her imagination, and who continues - even after she has left her childhood behind - to make the world around her conform to that imaginary construct. The novel deals with the devastating consequences of her self-delusion, and eventual quest to make amends for her \\"crime\\" - to achieve atonement.  <br /> <br />The story is masterfully told, from the slow, tense build to the \\"crime\\" itself (one fateful night in 1935, Briony self-righteously interposes herself between her elder sister and her newly-discovered love for the son of the family's charlady) to the exploration of its fallout in the subsequent lives of the characters. Occasional false notes (the dubious misture of sophistication and childishness in younger Briony's thoughts, for example) are made neatly explicable by a final reveal, to which I shall return.  <br /> <br />There are two points on which the novel snags. The first, to judge by many of the reviews here, lies in what some have seen as a twist: the blurring of identity during the pivotal incident in 1935, and the subsequent (far too late) revelation of who was truly at fault that night. This, at least, seems to me to be a criticism that arises from a misunderstanding of authorial technique. The point is not the sleight-of-hand, but the fact that the characters wilfully deceive themselves into falling for it; to the reader, unhampered by the social and ethical assumptions of the upper-middle class interwar, the truth is surely obvious before the incident even occurs, simply by virtue of the things Briony observes without considering significant. The function of the 'twist' is to be a twist for the characters, not the reader; for the reader, it gives the measure of these people, who are so set in their prejudices that they do not even question the various conclusions they jump to.  <br /> <br />The second problem, and to this reader much more serious, lies within the 1999-set coda, and the very title of the novel. Without wanting to give too much away, it is here, not earlier, that authorial sleight-of-hand puts the whole thing in doubt. Briony, now in her 70s, has just finished another (final?) draft of the fiction she has constructed out of the events of 1935, and after; the final reveal of the truth, it is to be her atonement (likely posthumous). Yet even as she acknowledges the impossibility of the author seeking atonement within a story of her own making, she seems blithely unconcerned by the fact that what she has produced is neither atonement, nor the truth. She strives to bolster the veracity of her literary world (even corresponding with a WWII veteran over soldierly turns of phrase in 1940), but alters the emotional truth at its heart. As ever, she obsesses over the details, and misses the larger truth.  <br /> <br />Even at the end of her life, Briony is still driven to make life into fiction, to provide a \\"neater end\\" - and in doing so, perhaps, misses her atonement. Whether this hollow ending marks success or failure of the novel is hard to judge without knowing what McEwan intended, and perhaps wishing for anything else is simply to fall into Briony's trap of fictionalising life; but, rightly or wrongly, it may be dissatisfying to the reader.	2005-02-23
US	42100785	R1UBP9OAZ0MKP7	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Back to basics	It's prequel number one (of three) for Jordan as the end of the Wheel of Time recedes ever farther from sight. <br />Leaving aside the necessity or otherwise of further bloating an already mammoth series, examined on its own merits _New Spring_ has more to recommend it than the last few instalments in the series proper. Without the need to buoy up a multiplicity of storylines, Jordan produces a fast-paced, engaging tale. It's Lan and Moiraine: The Early Years, essentially; set twenty years before the other books, this deals with Gitara's Foretelling of the Dragon's rebirth, and how a young Cairhienin Accepted gains the shawl and finds her Warder.<br />The problem is the very 'expansion' that is responsible for this tale being republished. The original 'New Spring' novella from _Legends_ is included here with few changes (bar some extra incidents on the road to Chachin), and as such remains well worth the read - if you don't already own a copy of _Legends_. The new material tacked onto the beginning, however, will appeal only to real WoT masochists. An account of Siuan and Moiraine's ascent from Accepted to full sisters, it's sometimes entertaining in its portrait of the series' key players in their youth, but on the whole it's too redolent of the later books in the WoT - full of unmemorable characters and info-dump exposition, devoid of tension or much in the way of humour.<br />Newcomers should go to _The Eye of the World_ and its immediate successors, where the exploration of the White Tower is pulled off far more gradually and elegantly. Fans will probably buy this one anyway, but be warned: if you've read the excellent original story, there's little new here.	2004-03-19
US	42100785	R29KG3S14V7HMA	0380818604	84144543	The Curse of Chalion	Books	4	2	4	N	N	An enjoyable and clever fantasy	I've never read any of Bujold's other work, but after _The Curse of Chalion_ I think I might. This is an absorbing, skillfully-woven tale of curses and consequences, told with succinct artistry in a single volume. (I gather more books set in this world are to come, but the story here is self-contained).<br />Having escaped the slavery that he was betrayed into, Cazaril returns home a broken man. He is appointed tutor to the spirited Royesse Iselle, whose fierce intelligence and infectious passion for life gives him back some of the joy he has lost, and a purpose - protecting her, whatever the cost to himself. Gradually, he becomes aware of a terrible curse afflicting the royal family, and determines to lift it.<br />The curse itself is a fascinating creation, one intimately bound up in the nature of the world Bujold has created. The gods are very much active forces, here, and consequences resonate through generations. Curse and story alike unfold in unexpected, occasionally shocking directions, resulting in a quite brilliant portrait of how desperation can warp even the strongest fidelity.<br />The characters are engaging and most are well-rounded, each bringing their own histories and secrets to the story, which unfold naturally with the narrative. Their pain - physical and emotional - is believable and affecting.<br />Even over 400 pages, the novel doesn't quite retain its momentum; the pacing is a little uneven and the ending a little unsatisfying (to me, at least). Nevertheless, this is a gripping and intriguing tale that I couldn't put down.	2004-03-19
US	42100785	RWPTC15P7DU2K	0140442820	414539053	As I Crossed a Bridge of Dreams: Recollections of a Woman in 11th-Century Japan (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Lyrical counterpoint to Sei Shonagon	Short, poignant and redolent of a very individual experience of life in Heian Japan, the memoirs of 'Lady Sarashina' provide a fascinating glimpse of a woman's life slightly outside of the most exalted circles of eleventh-century life. This is a highly idiosyncratic portrait of its time, concentrating on episodes important to Sarashina herself (dreams, pilgrimages, poetic exchanges) rather than to the politically-active class as a whole. The sense of chronology is vague, the structure dictated more by mood pieces and observations than straightforward diary-keeping. <br />As such, this probably isn't the place to start with medieval Japanese writing, but something to try after Sei Shonagon (an altogether more ebullient and resilient character, who _is_ at the centre of things) and Lady Murasaki. Sarashina is too withdrawn to involve herself in the customary court intrigues and liaisons, and too low-status to have much impact. Instead, she occupies herself with the fantastical world of Genji and other &quot;Tales&quot;. Her memoirs are also notable for their account of a journey through the provinces to the capital, and for highly-praised poetry that unfortunately doesn't translate particularly well. <br />Ivan Morris' concise introduction sets the work in its context and discusses its significance and textual history; line drawings and unobtrusive notes further build our picture of Sarashina's world. A worthwhile purchase.	2004-03-19
US	42100785	RHP9DZFZXXFAH	0192854496	279569564	The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witchcraft	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Paganism meets intellectual rigour &amp; comes out rather well	As several people have already said here, the incomparable Ronald Hutton has done the Pagan community an immense service with _Triumph of the Moon_. Indeed, he achieves the near-impossible: he has produced an academic monograph on the origins of modern Pagan witchcraft capable of satisfying those on the inside (Pagans) _and_ those on the outside (academics and society at large).<br />Hutton brings his characteristic wit and penetrating insight to bear upon the 'history' of modern witchcraft, and the result is simultaneously a sobering and an uplifting read. This is no mere hatchet job on the always-shaky historical claims of Gardner _et al_; it is a wide-ranging and extremely intelligent study of social, intellectual and spiritual trends in Britain during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, which places the modern Craft in its worldly context. A succession of poets, academics, cunning folk, anthropologists, Masons and occultists are discussed, illuminating social currents of the day, and exploring the contribution of each to the great mosaic that became the modern Craft. <br />The myths, too, are explored: Margaret Murray, 'the burning times', Gardner's Book of Shadows and the myth of prehistoric 'Great Goddess' are all carefully examined, and gently (or not so gently) punctured. Yet I cannot emphasise enough that this is not an attack on Paganism - that it can only, in fact, make it stronger. The first (Gardnerian) witches' claims to the antiquity of their tradition may have been spurious, but Hutton makes it clear that this removes nothing from the fact that there was 'something in the water', so to speak, of early twentieth century society. Far from appearing a deceitful aberration, Gardner and others are shown to be expressive of a mood of their times, taking the logical next step in giving Paganism a structure and greater definition.<br />Two caveats (because I feel I ought to...): 1) The focus - both in historial chapters and in the sociological case studyat the end - is upon coven witchcraft, with little space for solitary workers (although this is perfectly reasonable in terms of what Hutton is trying to); 2) From an article in 'Pagan Dawn' a little while back, I gather that Hutton's research is ongoing, and there's a possibility of a second edition at some point in the future!<br />Hutton is an engaging and lucid writer, as adept at discussing long-term social trends as he is at providing lively pen-portraits of the various writers and witches who parade through his pages. An enjoyable and an enlightening read for anyone with an interest in the Craft or in 20th century social history. Wonderful.	2003-12-17
US	42100785	RQ0PSHW7D7N7Z	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Huge, clever, fun, flawed	Subject-wise, _The Years of Rice and Salt_ pushed all the right buttons for me - opening with a Journey to the West pastiche was always going to score it points, then there was a section set in Samarkand, quotations from Ibn Khaldun, and some deftly-drawn portraits of medieval China. I'm a sucker for a) cleverness, and b) well-crafted settings outside the pseudo-medieval fantasy norm, and this book hits both markers. So I wanted desperately to like it. In some ways, I did.<br />But there are two fundamental flaws, in my opinion. Firstly, the device of reincarnating the same set of characters fails; none of said characters are distinctive or memorable enough from life to life, and so end up being effectively 'new' in every section/time period. There's little chance for the reader to develop any emotional investment before the section ends and the whole thing starts again, and it becomes difficult to truly care.<br />Its second problem is, curiously, its lack of scope and vision. While the novel's stage is an entire world over six or so centuries, the device of keeping the characters together in each incarnation means that each section concentrates on one small area, robbing the narrative of the benefits of multiple, varied viewpoints. The scale is narrow rather than epic, and the action tends to get bogged down in details. This would be fine if the details were used to build character or illuminate the larger picture - the themes of this alternate, Europe-less world - but a lot of it reads like navel-gazing. <br />Many of the truly interesting implications are skipped over in favour of scientists ahead of their time discovering exactly the same things at almost exactly the same time their counterparts did in the non-fictional world, as if Robinson feels that certain universal boxes must be checked along the road to 'development', whatever the structure or imperatives of a society. (Meanwhile, literature, drama and art get short shrift). Often even the same words areused - I know little about the history of scientific thought, but would a world whose development was shaped by Arabs and Chinese still have used so many Greek and Latinate constructions to label their deeds? (okay, so he can get away with Greek, Islamic scholars were big on Greek. but still).<br />While there are glimpses of greater things - Buddhist attitudes and beliefs are used very well, and the different trajectory of American history is intriguing, but frustratingly underexplored - Robinson seems to be more interested in following a pretty conventional path. Perhaps dictated by his reincarnation device, he surrenders to the temptation to work towards a conclusion, as if human history could have ultimate purposes or goals. (I imagine one could argue that this reflects the world-view of those he writes about, but intentional or not it doesn't work!). Ultimately, this is too big a topic for one novel, and in trying to cover everything the author spreads himself too thinly, and ends up short-changing a fascinating world. <br />Despite these caveats, this remains a hugely enjoyable and memorable read, a rich tapestry of cultures and ideas rarely explored in genre fiction. Worth a look.	2003-10-13
US	42100785	R3NGCAXRXYCGLP	0345440919	685854664	Pavane (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Haunting alternate history	This is simply a beautiful work; another gem from Gollancz' Masterworks series, although one which reads more like fantasy or historical fiction than SF.<br />The novel is told through a series of six 'Measures', vignettes of story and mood focusing on a different character each time. While each works separately, taken together they form a tapestry linking thematic and narrative concerns - producing, ultimately, a beautifully-conceived and wonderfully effective tale of twentieth century England stifled by an all-powerful, anti-progress Catholic Church.<br />The alternate England is a triumph of understated, economical world-building (something that many of today's fantasy novels could learn from, perhaps). It is filled with enduring images - the Signallers' towers, the steam engines, the land held in winter's icy grasp - made all the more striking and memorable because we are shown them through the eyes of convincing and distinctive characters. <br />My only criticism would be of the 'Coda', which feels superfluous, and far too neat. Otherwise, this is a moving story of a transforming world, all the more effective for being incompletely explained.	2003-10-13
US	42100785	R1DDYWLZB1KSO0	0380014033	772010642	Lord of Light	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Entertaining and thought-provoking	In brief: Science fiction meets Hinduism in one of the most surprising, intriguing and enjoyable books I've come across in a while. Highly recommended.<br />The story centres on an off-Earth colony which has come to be utterly dominated by its founders, who rule with the names, personalities and even the attributes of Hindu gods. With the injection of SF technology, social and political control pivot upon Hindu tenets with a futuristic twist. Reincarnation functions through personality-storage and cloning, allowing effective immortality for the gods, and some very bad karma for any who oppose them. The populace is held in a permanent low-tech state to ensure it continues to need its gods; innovations that might benefit mortals, such as the printing press, are swiftly eradicated. <br />Stylistically, too, it is brilliant. The whole thing takes the form of a Hindu epic, in terms of both language and structure. The hero, Sam, rebels against the gods by (literally and figuratively) taking on the Buddha role, preaching against the priesthood and the oppressive rituals and strictures which bind society. And through this, Zelazny brings out some of the most interesting implications of his blend of SF and myth, exploring how the 'gods' have merged with their masks to truly _become_ their mythic roles.<br />Finally, and importantly, _Lord of Light_ also contrives to be a truly entertaining read. Deservedly a classic.	2003-09-07
US	42100785	RVCZZT4RI9593	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Quality in every aspect	Yes, it's big. Yes, it's long, occasionally slow-moving, and weighty in more senses than the obvious. <br />But every one of these attributes is a virtue, when employed with this much skill. <br />_Cryptonomicon_ is a complex, elegant examination of code-making and -breaking in WWII and the present day, and of the two generations of people whose lives it alters. Past and present are interwoven with often breathtaking subtlety, with each new chapter illuminating the work as a whole, both thematically and in terms of the plot. <br />The intelligence at work here is both broad and incisive, yet the novel is far from being a sterile display of intellectual prowess. At heart this remains a deeply human story, full of flawed characters and ethical complexity; _Catch-22_'s influence runs deeply, most overtly in the comically illogical missions Bobby Shaftoe's team carry out to prevent the Germans from discovering their code has been broken, but more generally in the way that the impact of extraordinary events on ordinary people always remains in view. Furthermore, a strong historical awareness ensures that environment, ideas and story enjoy a healthy, mutually-reinforcing relationship. The evocation of the wartime Philippines is superb, but there are numerous smaller triumphs (the present-day ultra-PC American academics are a personal favourite...).<br />In short, this is clever on more levels than I can begin to describe, yet never fails to be engaging. Stephenson has constructed a novel that manages to be simultaneously astounding, enlightening, moving and witty - a novel that revels in its length, tackling a decades-spanning story that would be ill-served by anything shorter.	2003-08-07
US	42100785	RTXNBMAQFQFB5	1857239938	683641917	The Dark Moon (Guardian Cycle)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Unremarkable	While _The Dark Moon_ has a promising premise - an empire of floating islands, ruled by traditions associated with the alignments of four moons, on the verge of apocalypse and featuring at least one major character of questionable sanity - the novel soon squanders its appeal with poor writing, inconsistent plotting, and tired fantasy cliche. There's a prophecy, a saviour, some ill-defined magic, and a long-lost prince. It is entertaining in places, but too many pages are wasted in superfluous and slightly dull escapades, and unnecessary character introspection which rather forgets the show-not-tell maxim. <br />The writing is occasionally clumsy, overindulging in adverbs (particularly to describe manners of speech when the dialogue itself ought to convey the point). Small but irritating illogicalities abound: we are told in one chapter that inmates of the madhouse are tattooed to mark them if they try to escape - and then, a few chapters and not a great deal of journeying later, that the people in the village Terrel reaches don't recognise the symbol. Alyssa is an interesting character, but Terrel is not (and few of the people he encounters stand out as more than stock figures); the villains are little more than cartoons.<br />On the plus side, there are certain brave attempts to break the pseudo-medieval mode, with discussions of scientific technique and advances in knowledge (although several of the conversations putting this across verge smack of inelegant info-dumping). Given a little more development and colour, the setting could prove to be an intriguing one.<br />Overall, this feels like too little material stretched to fill 500-odd pages, in which excess words fail to compensate for poor characterisation and an ill-thought-through world. A shame.	2003-06-15
US	42100785	R11UI3YTLUT1K3	0756400309	490158599	Sea of Silver Light (Otherland, Book 4)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Compelling, but bloated, epic	If you've made it this far, you know what's going on (and if you don't, there are pages and pages of story-so-far synopsis to fill you in). The real question is, does it work? More to the point, does it truly require over 1200 pages to wrap up a tale that's already three volumes old?<br />The answers are interlinked: it works, mostly, but it wavers severely, and mainly because of that overlong running time.<br />Things are spiralling out of control, both in the network and in the real world, and our various heroes and villains are fighting a losing battle against time, desperately trying to complete their tasks before everything ends... <br />...Or so we're told, repeatedly; but there's little sense of urgency communicated to the reader by chapter after chapter of characters slogging their way through a fading landscape. Much of this is little different from the episodic adventure/trudge of the previous two books. Sadly, the wonder evoked palls with each new virtual world (yes, yet more!), and you can't help but wonder why someone at the editing stage didn't whisper in Williams' ear about the law of diminishing returns. The prose is fluid and enjoyable enough - there's just far too much of it. Similar may be said of the characters; a third of them could be ditched without either the story or its themes suffering unduly. The exploration of the true nature of the Other is fascinating, but again, the same meditations could have been condensed without losing anything of value. <br />There is a huge and wonderful imagination at work here, and the near-future world Williams has created retains the power to enthral and amuse (the 'Netfeed' snippets at the top of each chapter remain one of the best bits of the book, especially the one for the final chapter). <br />But compelling as it is, I can't help but feel that the promise of the astonishing first book, _City of Golden Shadow_ has been squandered somewhere along the line, as Williams got caught up in his own inventiveness. The first volume contained real tension, mystery and wonder; here, though, the denouement is unforgivably talky and longwinded, and even introduces certain new and wholly unnecessary elements. Worst still, there is little sense of the price of victory, with virtually all the good guys emerging (mostly) intact. There are few real casualties in this war. <br />An uneven conclusion to what should have been a great fantasy achievement.	2003-06-07
US	42100785	R3655ANJZ0S9JR	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Satisfying conclusion to a confident series	In _Assassin's Quest_, Robin Hobb's Farseer trilogy rolls to a compelling, if overlong, climax. Like the previous two volumes, a slow start gradually gives way to a gripping tale that is near-impossible to put down. <br />The start is slower than ever here, however, and the book's rather inflated page-count seems to be more given over to detail and colour than narrative; much of it feels like a re-treading of old ground. In particular, the early section, on Fitz's recovery and his repeated descents into Wit 'addiction', feels cumbersome and several chapters too long. We've seen Fitz struggle through long convalescences before; Hobb has analysed Fitz's relationship with Burrich, with Molly, with Nighteyes, etc. at length elsewhere. If the prose were not so readable I'm not sure I'd have persisted past the opening 200 or so pages.<br />Once the new material gets going, though, this is a conclusion well worth the effort. The various plot-strands and themes of the trilogy reach a satisfying and entertaining pay-off, and the new characters who join in the ride add an interesting (and vital) new dynamic to the tale. <br />Well-written fantasy from a formidable imagination, that suffers only from that perennial fantasy pitfall: absorption in its world at the expense, at times, of the story's pace. Recommended, nonetheless, as a superior example of its type.	2003-06-05
US	42100785	R2XK4N24LNDF7U	0841501246	335420217	The East India Company: a history	Books	2	8	9	N	N	All the traditional flaws	Like most of the older histories of the English East India Company, this book is concerned more with Raj and high drama than with the Company itself. The opening pages treat the reader to musings on whether Elizabeth I, signing the Company's first charter in 1600, could have foreseen the Calcutta, Clive and Gandhi, and this sets the tone. Gardner's interest lies firmly with the Company's 'destiny'; the first 150 years, being rather tediously concerned with trade rather than conquest, are skimmed over in 70 pages, leaving plenty of space for Hastings, Clive and the nineteenth century. That the true life of the Company ends some way before the remit of the book (in the early 1800s) seems not to have had much impact on the choice of title.<br />There are useful correctives to some of the more overblown mythmaking that British exploits in India have been subjected to in the past - but on the whole this study is light on detail and heavy on eulogising. Read John Keay's _The Honourable Company_ instead.	2003-05-21
US	42100785	R19E7GSEAMDAH5	0521257581	295084614	European Commercial Enterprise in Pre-Colonial India (The New Cambridge History of India)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Useful, and comparatively accessible	This is an up-to-date and concise account of the commercial activities of European traders in Asia between 1500 and 1800. While the pages of tables, graphs and pie charts may make all but the real enthusiast's eyes glaze over, the figures tend to illustrate rather than dominate - unlike in some of the denser tomes in the subject area. <br />The approach is largely comparative, and covers both private and chartered trading by all major European players in East Asia (including the Danish and Ostend Companies). There is an emphasis upon material relating to the Dutch East India Company, presumably deriving from the author's own expertise in this area; while this is undoubtedly useful and even a refreshing change from the usual weighting towards the English/British EIC, it can at times unbalance the argument and betray hints of bias. Furthermore, Prakash is given to some repetition of phrasing, which makes reading it that little bit more difficult.<br />In all, extremely useful - but not for the casual reader of Indian history, who would be advised to start with more general histories of the period first.	2003-05-20
US	42100785	R39JRDT7SUJ90L	1901114007	494064772	Born in Albion: The Rebirth of the Craft	Books	4	3	4	N	N	No-nonsense introduction	While perhaps not as polished as some of the author's later works, this is a useful, practical guide to the Craft from an extremely knowledgeable and respected High Priestess. West is about as far from fluffy bunny Wicca as it is possible to be, and _Born In Albion_ amply reflects this. She cuts through both jargon-Wicca and dumbed-down-Wicca to provide an introduction that is both sensible and practical, and a worthy addition to any witch's library. It is, however, perhaps more concerned with ceremonial practice than some introductions to the Craft; this particular strand may not be to everyone's taste.<br />(This current edition comes from (the now defunct, I think) Pagan Media, a small publishing outfit run by West's husband. As has been speculated in previous reviews, I gather from the author's website that it is to be re-released in a new edition in the near future).	2003-05-14
US	42100785	R3GD61Y3TN0XOV	0140434062	821153252	Dracula (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gripping, multi-layered novel retains the power to chill	Dracula may be an iconic figure in film and television, but his appeal is not diminished in print. This truly is a wonderful, absorbing read; I enjoyed it far more than I expected to. Stoker's prose is pleasantly easy to read (although the footnotes do come in handy for some of the more obscure references to medieval eastern European history).<br />The narrative is generally well-paced, only occasionally sagging under the weight of unnecessary scene-setting and backstory. It is told from a multitude of viewpoints with an almost postmodern attention to point-of-view distortions. This device also goes a considerable way towards breathing real life into the engaging characters.<br />The story is a familiar one, of course, particularly to anyone who has seen the 1992 film version. With Coppola's slightly salacious additions stripped away (Lucy is a giddy charmer here rather than a perpetually-tipsy flirt, for example), this is an often stark tale, redolent with folkloric eerieness, as fin-de-siecle scientific triumphalism battles vainly against an older, altogether darker set of laws.<br />However many versions of the story you've seen, _Dracula_ remains a surprisingly rich and unnerving read - all the richer, indeed, for the cultural resonance it has picked up since it was first published. We have seen Jonathan Harker reach his slow realisation of the true nature of the Count countless times, yet this knowing shiver only adds to the creeping unease when Harker first enters Dracula's castle.<br />This a gem of a novel, waiting to be rediscovered.	2003-05-14
US	42100785	R2IU7EDXC5T3W0	038081658X	402338041	The Fresco	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Tepper-lite ... perhaps	If you know Tepper, you know the drill: well-drawn aliens smugly shaking their heads at human foibles, put-upon heroines faced with a brick wall of male intransigence, the environment in peril...<br />And that, I think, is the point. This isn't merely formulaic Tepper; it's Tepper poking fun at her own formula. Yes, really.<br />There are still serious points being made here: about self-abuse and the harm it does to others, about humankind's obsessive pursuit of short-term gratification over long-term prudence, about the place of women in a world still dominated by male concerns. But it's all wrapped up in a delicious, and deliciously silly, tale of first contact. <br />The covering story is pure, paper-thin froth, and apparently intended so: benevolent aliens with a penchant for social engineering hook up with a virtuous working mother (fleeing, of course, an abusive alcoholic husband), and together they set about Making The World A Better Place. Ranged against them are the usual motley collection of pro-life senators, conservative religious figures, and nasty hunter aliens.<br />The aliens' approach to improving human society reads like the Hobb's Land gods of Tepper's earlier novel _Raising the Stones_ run through the Hollywood anti-subtlety machine: harmful anti-social behaviour is simply prevented at source with what is effectively a wave of a magic wand (well, nanobots. Allegedly). There's no libertarian messing about here: castration for rapists is high on the agenda. Possibly Tepper is growing impatient with the world's problems; either way, solutions are achieved in record time, once everyone starts being 'sensible'...<br />Haven chosen to go with this light-hearted exaggeration, though, Tepper has immense fun with her scenario, and in doing so she subverts all expectations. The kidnapping of Jerusalem is priceless (\\"When you can all get along, you can have it back\\"); the impregnation of the pro-lifers with alien spawn is genius, and laugh-out-loud funny. Even the swipes at organised religions are amusing rather than stridently critical.<br />And if I'm not mistaken, the final few pages are a hilarious send-up of _Grass_...	2003-04-25
US	42100785	R3PNJYLYW936J	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Masterfully-executed fantasy	I'm a latecomer to the Church of Hobb, but having devoured this novel in a matter of days I can firmly say that I see the appeal. This is a highly readable and at times very gripping tale, with well-rounded if slightly unremarkable characters. The early stages perhaps linger a little too long on scene-setting - things only become truly interesting once narrator Fitz is into his teens - but this is excusable when the scene being set is as engaging and well-drawn as this. Hobb's early-medieval-esque world is packed with believable detail rather than cliche, and the Chyurda people of the mountains are a genuinely original and intriguing society, adding much interest to the story. <br />The narrative device of telling the story through an older Fitz's reflections upon his life works well, enabling the author to overlay a child's actions with an adult's understanding and insight. Fitz is simultaneously both an insider and an outsider, a royal bastard taken in at an early age but never accepted by all. He has access to the powerful but is not truly one of them, and his learning process allows for a (mostly) smooth transmission of background information to the reader. There are one or two bumps, however: a few times, Fitz reaches conclusions which are subverted by later events - but since he is supposedly telling the story with hindsight this comes across only as a slightly forced attempt at creating suspense and surprise.<br />The story is largely self-contained (though it has strands that later books in the trilogy will presumably pick up), and is thankfully free of a generic 'quest' structure, instead centring mainly upon political currents within the kingdom and Fitz's early life. My only real qualm about the whole thing partly stems from this self-containment: the climax, in pulling virtually all the people who have at some times undermined/attacked Fitz into one great conspiracy, seems to impose an unnatural singularity of motive and purpose upon the book's villains.It's certainly clever, but the pattern that is revealed is just a touch too elaborate, too neat, drawing together too many elements of what has gone before; it lacks a feeling of contingency and circumstance. <br />Nevertheless, it's wonderful writing and compelling reading, and a cut above the average.	2003-04-13
US	42100785	R2CJHYL4NR7CF2	0802130860	253986468	Monkey: Folk Novel of China	Books	4	52	53	N	N	Exuberant fairytale with an edge	Unlike most people, I didn't come to this book through the TV series - I have heard of it, but I've never seen it (although I do intend to try to find it now...).<br />This translation covers only sections of the Monkey/Journey to the West saga, but what there is of it conveys well the flavour of the tale without outstaying its welcome. The plot, such as it is, revolves around the priest Tripitaka and his disciples (including Monkey), who have been charged to journey to the West and return with Buddhist scriptures for the enlightenment of China.<br />The story can, at times, be distinctly difficult to get your head around; superficially at least, it's little more than a succession of episodes involving bizarre monsters being defeated with elaborate magical powers. There is, however, plenty of humour - generally farcical in nature, although occasionally quite dry - and the bickering of the main characters is frequently entertaining. The bureaucratic nature of heaven, in which spirits and deities are assigned strictly hierarchical posts - with salaries! - is amusing regardless of how much you know of Chinese history and society.<br />However, many of the Buddhist and Taoist elements may be confusing to readers unfamiliar with the basic concepts. Some of the episodes rely quite heavily on outcomes grounded in, say, the workings of karma or the achievement of enlightenment - although most do conclude with Monkey and friends beating up the monsters in question, frequently with the spiritual aid of Kuan-yin and other divinities. But I do suspect that there are allusions and layers I'm missing...<br />To paraphrase the end-of-chapter refrain, if you want to know whether Monkey and his companions succeed on their quest, you'll have to read the book!	2003-03-11
US	42100785	R3KYO2BN8RE80Q	0006380727	623030667	The Honourable Company	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Detailed, analytical and entertaining history	From the author of the impressive _India: A History_ comes this compact but consistently informative study of the English East India Company, from its origins in the last days of the sixteenth century to the first decades of the nineteenth. This is narrative history at its best, packed with detail, incident and striking characters. Keay fills his pages with entertaining curios and arresting anecdotes, ensuring that the human elements are never lost amid the sweep of history. The geographical and historical sweep is broad, and the focus does not remain unwaveringly upon the Company's servants, but takes in details of societies ranging from London to Japan.<br />For the student of the period, there is enough sharp analysis here to provide a useful overview/introduction to the issues of the period. For the general reader, there's a wonderful tale encompassing everything from early modern finance to a harem in Sumatra. Wonderful.	2003-03-11
US	42100785	R1XDRUQ8ZE8VFP	0340737573	151055633	Witchcraft: A Beginner's Guide (Headway Guides for Beginners)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Practical and sensible guide	Faced, today, with such a proliferation of books promising to Impart The Secrets Of The Craft, choosing who to listen to can be daunting, even impossible. Yet the aspiring Witch is unlikely to have a seasoned practitioner in easy reach from whom to seek advice; most of us have little option but to rely on books, at least to begin with.<br />In light of this, you can do a great deal worse than pick up a copy of Moorey's book, if you can find it. This remains one of the best short introductions to Witchcraft (and, to an extent, to many of the concepts of modern Paganism, too) out there: clearly-written, non-nonsense, filled with practical advice on how to celebrate and live your beliefs - rather than sitting around with a pentagram and a few joss sticks, feeling faintly cheated. For the poetically-challenged of us, there are also nicely-expressed suggested verses for sabbats and esbats.<br />At every stage it is practical, helpful, and (hurrah!) largely non-fluffy. Recommended.	2003-03-11
US	42100785	R8PNHFRBRP6U7	0631176772	64548662	The Incas (Peoples of America)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Best overview currently available	Incorporating much of the most recent research into Inca history and society, Terence D'Altroy's work is undoubtedly the best (and most readable!) of the serious introductory texts in the field. He covers the various aspects clearly and thoroughly, elucidating the complexities of the historical narrative, social organisation, and economic production, alongside information on ritual practice, accounting methods, architecture and geography. We are given a synthesis of modern research, together with an awareness of how much remains to be understood, such the _khipu_ rope-knotting techniques that the Incas used to record the movement of goods and transmit laws.<br />There is a wealth of black-and-white photographs and near-contemporary illustrations, and D'Altroy makes extensive, judicious use of both archaeological finds and written sources (native and Spanish) from the decades immediately after the Conquest. The slant is primarily historical, and while - as with any study of Andean history - anthropological theory enters the picture, this is rather less jargon-filled and abstract than the average ethnographic study, but instead shows awareness of historical change and social evolution.<br />Extremely useful.	2003-03-01
US	42100785	R3RTP3S5YF7KE6	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Entertaining debut with much to recommend it	If you're reading this review, the chances are that you've seen a fair few swords-and-sorcery novels (or multi-volume sagas, as they more frequently turn out to be) in your time. If you're the type who'll read anything from Terry Brooks upwards, then here's what you need to know: secluded beardy wizards, convoluted names, small group on a quest, barbarians from across the sea, easy good/evil division. Okay? Good.<br />However, there's also much here for the more discerning fantasy fan. For starters, this is a fantasy world with rather more depth than the usual cardboard cut-out pseudo-medieval realm; the story takes us through environments and situations which carry within them a sense of historical and technological change. The action of the tale is triggered by an antiquarian initiative, led by wizards and scholars, to investigate the true reasons behind the fall of an empire. We hear of advances in smelting techniques, of new fashions and the effects of trade; this rarely feels like unnecessary detail, but is generally brought into the narrative when it is relevant to the plot. The magic systems are kept simple but remain intriguing.<br />The characters vary; some, such as the titular thief Livak (first-person narrator for around half of the chapters), work very well. Livak is a million miles from that patronising epithet &quot;feisty&quot; - she's quick-witted and capable without constantly feeling the need to prove it. She's also believeably experienced without being utterly world-weary. Casuel, in the subplot strand, borders on caricature but as a general rule works as a good contrast. The rest of the cast tend to be painted in broad strokes, and the interactions between them tend a little towards the flat, particularly once Darni is separated off from Livak's group.<br />The problems, such as they are, come with the story itself. The author herself has admitted that the basic plot is pretty formulaic, but that she had tried to use the cliches to produce something a little different. She hasn't entirely succeeded - this remains, after all, fundamentally a 'quest', for all the convincing background colour. Politicking rears its head only rarely, and for all the great build-up of place and history, the (rather rushed) climax plays out as a fairly standard magical confrontation.<br />Nevertheless, despite its bumps and flaws, this is a well-drawn picture of a world that I look forward to reading more of. McKenna undoubtedly has talent; if she'd only let her excellent world-building skills drive the story rather than the by-the-numbers fantasy plotting, she could be a considerable force in the genre.	2003-02-14
US	42100785	R1C4J7C7RV39OW	0441865844	510395498	Voice of Our Shadow	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Insightful and disquieting	This is a wonderfully original and understated novel: a coming-of-age story with a mystery at its heart, embellished with fantasy elements that become stronger and more integral as the book heads to its conclusion. Unlike much fantasy writing these days, there's no unnecessary padding here; rather, you're left wanting more. <br />The setting (predominantly Vienna) is evoked with a nicely economic style, while the (few) characters come to life naturally through their words and actions. The creeping unease builds gradually, and is never overdone - and the ending packs a considerable punch. I enjoyed it immensely, although if you like your fiction strictly explicable and grounded in reality you may find some of the developments a touch difficult to swallow.<br />This recently came back into print in the UK; if you can get hold of a copy, do: you can read it in an evening and you won't be disappointed.	2003-02-14
US	42100785	R64LVO1OGQKTA	037570924X	236185551	An Equal Music: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Beautiful but frustrating	As anyone familiar with Seth's work might expect, this is a beautifully-written novel, brimming with lyrical but easy-to-read prose, well-realised backdrops and a convincingly evoked world. In the case of _An Equal Music_ the latter is both internal and external - that of making music, and coping with other musicians.<br />The central love story plot is pretty straightforward. More complex (and interesting) are the characters caught up in this plot, particularly the central pair of Michael and Julia. Julia is a poignant creation whose world is thrown into very believable turmoil by the return to her life of her lost love Michael. Michael, meanwhile, has the role of narrator - but Seth skilfully ensures that, even at the end, Michael retains some of his mysteries.<br />Unfortunately, Michael also proves to be the weak link. While for much of the novel his quest for Julia makes compelling reading, the final 80 pages or so sink into a mire of self-pitying introspection which after a while becomes simply tedious. For this reader, at least, Michael squandered his accumulated sympathy by his actions towards the end. Those with more patience, however, may get more from this book.	2003-02-08
US	42100785	RUH9X4G3LXC23	0345443993	269057755	The Dragon Queen (Tales of Guinevere, Book 1)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Misguided "reimagining"	Despite being billed as a radical reworking of Arthurian legend, this is a rather insipid tale that turns Guinevere into a precocious superwoman and reduces most of the other characters to two-dimensional cyphers. The plot is desperately episodic, limping from one pointless magical contest to another, rarely managing to draw tension from the foregone conclusion of Guinevere's victory.<br />On the plus side, the world is a marvellous creation, breaking the traditional pseudo-medieval stereotype of most fantasy literature; far and away the best aspects of the plot arise from this setting, rather than from the frequently strained attempts to incorporate Arthurian elements. Legendary characters and settings feel like they've been shoehorned in, and like big-name stars in a Hollywood blockbuster, their reputations overshadow the story. Borchardt does little interesting or new with them.<br />Essentially, this is an uninspired waste of a beautifully-drawn Dark Ages Britain backdrop. A shame. Later volumes may improve, but I'm not inspired to follow this story. I'll stick with Marion Zimmer Bradley or Guy Gavriel Kay.	2003-01-28
US	42100785	R13IJS8SUA91OX	0520084969	290947883	Moorish Spain	Books	4	47	48	N	N	A lucidly informative account	Dealing with the 700 years of Muslim civilisation in Iberia, this is a gem of popular history, entertaining without sacrificing scholarly attention to detail. The prose is sharp, evocative, and eminently easy to read; the pages are filled with ancedotes and stories that bring this lost world to life. A taster rather than comprehensive, this is an essential companion to travels in Spain, or an ideal way to begin learning more about this oft-overlooked period.	2003-01-07
US	42100785	R3SIQJEJA5V0C5	0816606889	609438498	Muslim Spain, Its History and Culture	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Disappointing	Despite the apparent promise of its size and title, this is a dated and not particularly balanced treatment of its subject. Too given to generalisation, it presents an idealised picture of Muslim Spain.	2003-01-07
US	42100785	R3U1FSYZIB3NB1	0375761373	667179837	The Baburnama: Memoirs of Babur, Prince and Emperor (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Masterpiece	Babur, a descendant of both Timur and Genghis Khan, was a truly remarkable man: a soldier and a poet, an inspirational leader with a deep appreciation for the beauties of nature - and a sensitivity that seems striking to us in a warrior of his undoubted stature.<br />His memoirs are a detailed, entertaining, and highly personal view of a changing world. In leading his followers into northern India, he laid the groundwork for the Mughal Empire, one of the great Islamic powers of the early modern period - and it is this achievement that history primarily remembers him for. Yet the _Baburnama_ shows that there is considerably more to the story than its conclusion.<br />With unstinting and engaging honesty, Babur talks of his early struggles, his constant setbacks, and his lifelong desire to hold Samarkand, glorious seat of his ancestor Timur (Tamerlane). For Babur, India is only the consolation prize after his failure to reconquer the lands of his birthright; India is rich, yes, astoundingly so, but it is far removed from his fond reminiscences of home. Along the way, reports of skirmishes with his enemies, and the constant betrayals of his allies, share the page with descriptions of local flora and fauna, and fascinating observations on everyday life in the cities and towns that he spends time at - and it is here that the work's true enjoyment lies.<br />Bear with the initially confusing internecine squabbles of the Central Asian nomads, and you'll be richly rewarded. A comprehensive and compelling insight into both Central Asia at the turn of the sixteenth century, and the day-to-day pressures inherent in the leadership of an empire based on conquest.	2002-10-27
US	42100785	R2FD305YHAI43N	069105889X	900641735	Communities of Violence	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Context, context, context	In the complex and highly-charged debate that is the origins of persecution in the Middle Ages, Nirenberg's contribution is a useful and timely one. Broadly speaking, his thesis is a counter to the long view of Moore _et al_; what interests Nirenberg is the specific, the day-to-day functioning of violence in its social and political context. It is for this reason that he focuses mainly on particular incidents and localities - although certainly not at the expense of broadening his picture where necessary. His method is essentially a comparative one, contrasting particular events in France and Aragon in order to demonstrate the infinite variety and flexibility of medieval attitudes towards minorities. This use of case studies enables Nirenberg to explore his targets in much greater depth than would be possible in a generalised study, and this is, in many ways, his point: a focus on context, not unified theory.<br />This is an excellent counterpoint to the vast quantity of material on medieval persecution, with an intriguing conclusion: that day-to-day violence could have a systemic, stabilising function in medieval societies - particularly multi-cultural ones such as Aragon.	2002-10-08
US	42100785	R2UZJWIWKGM6IZ	0521397413	501091535	The Medieval Spains (Cambridge Medieval Textbooks)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Useful starting-point	A clear and informative overview of both sides of the religious and territorial divide in medieval Spain. Not is the focus solely on military and political details, although these things are paid due attention; Reilly also takes in culture, society and technology to paint a broad picture of Muslim, Christian and Jewish life in Iberia. A great place to start.	2001-11-05
