US	42121270	RZT0Q04IUZGH6	0521387531	792568295	The Geometry of Physics: An Introduction	Books	2	22	31	N	N	I don't like it	Frankel's text is comprehensive and thick, but it has very little other than that going for it. It is sloppy, as noted in other reviews; very wordy; terms are defined after they're introduced - sometimes hundreds of pages after; notation is a bit weird, although that's a minor problem; But most of all, it just doesn't explain things well. It even doesn't have a lot of pictures to compensate for the lack of good textual explanations! This is probably the result of not defining things carefully and in a chronological order. Many times reading it I'd get the feeling the author didn't have the patience to spell out his reasoning and would just degenerate into nonsensical symbolic manipulations. I'm really sorry, but my opinion of this text is really low. As a reference for someone who already knows the material this is barely sufficient. For self study it is a disaster! Avoid it at all costs.	2002-12-10
US	42121270	R9P6DXQXEL2O6	0131244051	827585281	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Not a good book to learn QM from	Let me begin by saying that it would be a mistake to learn from Griffiths, for the simple reason he sticks to the coordinate representation without exploiting the bra-ket formalism. This is akin to studying electromagnetism without using vector analysis (or more advanced methods), like early 20th century texts taught it. This alone makes the book a bad purchase. Another point against buying this book is that it's incomplete and elementary. If you're thinking of pursuing a career in physics you will outgrow it VERY quickly and it will become useless. Your money is better spent on more encyclopedic (albeit dry) texts such as Messiah or Cohen-Tannoudji, or on slightly more advanced texts, such as Shankar's excellent (introductory, too!) book. These will serve you in years to come, even through your PhD and afterwards. That being said, I did not find anything particularly bad or good about this book. Griffiths style is nice, but style doesn't sell physics books. There are dozens of books on QM and it seems a bit strange to me that people still keep on writing books on this subject. I did not personally try the problems - you don't buy books for problems, you buy books to learn about physics. If you want problems with solutions, try the excellent and comprehensive &quot;Problems and solutions on quantum mechanics&quot;, edited by Lim Yung-kuo -it doesn't cost as much as Griffiths and will be MUCH much more effective for learning problem solving skills! (also there's a 90% chance you'll find your homework problems in there ... ;-))	2002-10-08
US	42121270	RIE0AR6UH8IPE	047130932X	748001938	Classical Electrodynamics Third Edition	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A good book on EM, with reservations	Let me state it bluntly: you cannot get a firm grasp of EM with this book. This is not a good book to learn from. This is a book to read AFTER you THINK you know EM. Jackson treats almost every conceivable topic in this monstrous compendium. A reader who wishes to hone his/her EM skills should pick up this book and read the relevant section, then work out the problems at the end of each chapter. This is, in my opinion, the ONE AND ONLY purpose of this book. I think it achieves it rather well - the text, along with the problems, greatly increase the reader's skills, confidence and understanding. The problems are essential.<BR>Jackson is NOT a good reference either - to understand what he's saying you have to usually read the entire chapter. What IS a reference anyhow? A book with all EM formulas in it? A book of problems with solutions? There are other books that deal with these issues much better than Jackson.<BR>Even worse - his chapters are often interdependent, so you can't just read the chapter on radiation when you want to learn all about radiation. Nope. That's because chapter 14 deals with single particle radiation and chapter 6 introduces retarded solutions - in short, the ideas are scattered throughout the text.<BR>So I'll say it again: this book will reward hard, linear study, and reward it greatly, but the reader is expected to show a lot of maturity - meaning assuring himself he understands everything in the text, working out the examples alone, and then doing all the problems he can. If you can't master that maturity - DON'T spend your money on it. Very simple! There are a lot of good books out there on EM that don't intend to make you a master. Try them out - my personal favorite is The EM Field by Albert Shadowitz (great undergraduate text, cheap too!). If it's problems and solutions you're looking for, try \\"Problems and Solutions on Electromagnetism\\" by Kim Lau (not sure about the author's name) for a GREAT collection of problems with solutions. Butleave Jackson alone if you don't want to invest your time in it. It's way better than getting frustrated and typing angry reviews here at amazon.com. <BR>A word about the problems: some are hard, some are not, but if you read the chapter carefully before approaching the problems at the end, chances are most will be doable, even if some require you to meditate upon them for several days. A few stubborn ones defy solution, but they are the exception, not the rule. Besides, it's always good to know there are problems out there to challenge you and help you advance your knowledge.	2002-10-07
US	42121270	R2TNYZI0UI5MH1	0823023753	327155537	How to Draw What You See	Books	3	576	592	N	N	Starts out well enough but loses momentum	The beginning of this book and the idea behind it are simple and straightforward: behind every object you see there is some &quot;skeletal&quot; figure made of simple geometric shapes - the cube, the cone, the cylinder and the sphere. If you know how to draw these and string them together you can in theory make any drawing you want.  Sounds simple, right? Well, it is. Only the book doesn't fully realize its potential.<BR>The first part of the book which deals with these basic shapes, how to draw them, shade them, etc ... starts out well enough. But by the time the author reaches the more advanced subjects, such as drawing nature, portraits and the human figure the book degenerates into yet another book filled with the author implicitly saying, &quot;look at how well I can draw!&quot;, filling pages upon pages with finished, beautiful drawing a beginner can never hope to achieve. For example: when discussing feet and hands, the author provides two drawings of the foot and briefly tells the student he should observe the foot and note its proportions. Really? And I thought I should stand on my head and sing the star spangled banner. Sorry for the sarcasm, but that is not an acceptable way of teaching how to draw the foot.<BR>Another example: when discussing figure drawing the author does not explain the figure's anatomy. Rather he says how he has followed his 14 years old daughter around the house and drew her in various natural positions. The reader is then presented with the final sketches, which by the way are very beautiful sketches. How did he achieve them? What are the principles he followed? How should one go about practicing sketching people? That the book does not reveal.<BR>It seems to me the main problem of this book is that it tries to do too much - portraits, still life, landscapes, charcoal, wash, all in one short book? The more topics you choose to cover, the less space you can devote to each. I think it would have been much better had the author devotedmore space to basic issues such as perspective, shading and textures, rather than rush headlong into complex topics. As it stands I cannot be sure whether it is intended for absolute beginners or advanced students.<BR>In short, this may be a good source for inspiration or for tips for people on many levels, but definitely not your main source of information.	2002-10-07
US	42121270	R3MYX9T01ONNEO	0486665216	878614169	Information Theory (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A rare find	I know what you're saying - Dover books have a reputation for publishing crap books, right? This book is just too cheap to be any good, right? Well, think again. This book is a no nonsense introduction to classical information theory. By no-nonsense I mean it does not have chapters like most books out there on \\"information and physics\\", \\"information and art\\", or all sorts of pseudo scientific popularizations of information theory. It does one thing: present with a minimum of hassle and with a maximum of details and examples the mathematical and conceptual framework of information theory, nothing more, nothing less. On the other hand, it manages to avoid the old \\"theorem-lemma-corollary\\" format of many other ultra-dense math books out there. This book actually makes an effort to explain where the math fits in conceptually. When introducing a new concept, it always accompanies the definition with an example. This is even true when proving a complicated theorem. Add to these virtues the interesting problems at the end of each chapter, each with its own detailed solution at the end of the book, and you've got a pedagogical gem.<BR>It should be noted that the only prerequisite is a prior course in basic probability - conditional probability, Tchebychev's theorem, simple and basic stuff every 2nd-3rd year undergraduate should be familiar with.<BR>If you're looking for the perfect introduction to information theory, look no further, this is it!	2002-10-07
US	42121270	R1NS9YOVXUAZ3B	0521775043	42094143	Color and Light in Nature	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable account of light in nature	This book is intended for people who are intrigued or awed by the way light is expressed in nature. It describes many natural phenomena involving light, including shadows, the color of the sky, clouds, mirages, halos, rainbows, the effects of ice in the atmosphere and much more. The intended audience in my eyes consists mainly of people who like physics but the beautiful color full-page pictures and tips on taking them also make this book a great resource for anyone interested in photography. Even physics students can benefit from this book (although it is intended for laymen, so no equations are used) - the book shows them interesting manifestations of optics in nature. The book also makes a nice gift for people who enjoy nature and would like to know how it &quot;works&quot;. Highly recommended!	2002-05-15
US	42121270	R2CGKDREC7WRBP	0387950265	902872861	Introduction to Topological Manifolds (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	59	60	N	N	Review of a non-mathematician	Being a physicist I've always been fascinated with the use of manifolds and differential geometry in mechanics, field theory, etc ... Most differential geometry books I've encountered only devote about 1 chapter to manifolds and smooth manifolds at that. However this text takes its time to teach the reader what the author states he thinks is the minimum amount of general knowledge about topological manifolds (no discussion of smooth/analytic manifolds is included). The author takes his time developing everything from scratch, not even assuming any experience with (point set) topology, so this book is particularly suited for those who shy away from the subject just because they're not mathematicians and don't know topology. The only prerequisites are advanced calculus and linear algebra, nothing too fancy. The writing itself is very clear and while rigorous this book does not get lost in the boring lemma-theorem-proof vicious cycle so many other math books fall flat at. Throughout the book are scattered exercises for the reader to do (about 10-20 each chapter) and there are problems at the end of each chapter (no solutions/hints included). All-in-all I feel this text has offered me a much greater understanding of manifolds and the general theory dealing with them. Highly recommended.	2002-05-07
US	42121270	R2P9AEFINV3NFI	013805326X	31934825	Introduction to Electrodynamics (3rd Edition)	Books	3	7	30	N	N	It would be a mistake to learn from this one	Let me begin by saying that it would be a mistake to learn from Griffiths, for the simple reason he sticks to the coordinate representation without exploiting the bra-ket formalism. This is akin to studying electromagnetism without using vector analysis (or more advanced methods), like early 20th century texts taught it. This alone makes the book a bad purchase. Another point against buying this book is that it's incomplete and elementary. If you're thinking of pursuing a career in physics you will outgrow it VERY quickly and it will become useless. Your money is better spent on more encyclopedic (albeit dry) texts such as Messiah or Cohen-Tannoudji, or on slightly more advanced texts, such as Shankar's excellent (introductory, too!) book. These will serve you in years to come, even through your PhD and afterwards. That being said, I did not find anything particularly bad or good about this book. Griffiths style is nice, but style doesn't sell physics books. There are dozens of books on QM and it seems a bit strange to me that people still keep on writing books on this subject. I did not personally try the problems - you don't buy books for problems, you buy books to learn about physics. If you want problems with solutions, try the excellent and comprehensive &quot;Problems and solutions on quantum mechanics&quot;, edited by Lim Yung-kuo -it doesn't cost as much as Griffiths and will be MUCH much more effective for learning problem solving skills! (also there's a 90% chance you'll find your homework problems in there ... ;-))	2002-03-21
US	42121270	R2XTCEKQWC9ZVM	047130932X	748001938	Classical Electrodynamics Third Edition	Books	4	42	46	N	N	See Jackson for what it really is!	First, a pop quiz: do you know how to expand a plane wave in spherical harmonics? Do you know how to decompose a periodic function into its harmonic components? Do you know how find Green's function for the Helmholtz operator? If you don't, then do not pick up this book, since it does a poor job of teaching the mathematical foundations of classical electrodynamics. <BR>And now for my review:<BR>Jackson is not a very good classroom text - it omits many steps, provides few examples and generally assumes the reader is mathematically competent enough<BR>to fill in all of the missing steps by him/herself. It is - surprise! - not <BR>such a good reference work either. He only mentions some topics briefly. For<BR>example, what about Hertzian treatment of radiation? Jackson has one merit,<BR>though - it is simply an interesting book, with material which is hard to find<BR>in many other books. One should view it as an informative collection of essays<BR>on EM. For example: I read in many undergraduate books how E&M can be \\"derived\\"<BR>from Coloumbs law and special relativity. Wrong! Jackson discusses this subject<BR>and points out where this fails. So, all-in-all, Jackson is a pretty knowledgeable<BR>fellow who has written pretty interesting \\"articles\\" about EM and put them all<BR>together in one book - which I refer to now and then to get his opinion on things.<BR>That is all! Jackson's book contains many interesting tidbits and I really do<BR>believe they make the book worth buying.<BR>For graduates/undergradutes - please, there are so many other more instructive books out there you could be using! First of all try finding a copy of the wonderful \\"Problems and Solutions on Electromagnetism\\" edited by Lim Yung-kuo - an excellent collection of problems (although sadly out of print, I suspect). Albert Shadowitz's book \\"The Electromagnetic Field\\" has excellent, detailed and pedagogical coverage of most topics found in Jackson's book, and is also very cheap! For a book full ofphysical insight, check out \\"Principles of Electrodynamics\\" by Melvin Schwartz (although it isn't so comprehensive). Julian Schwinger's \\"Classical Electrodynamics\\" is an even match for Jackson and pays a LOT more attention to detail (i.e. it pulls almost no \\"the student can show ... \\" tricks).<BR>Furthermore, a note about the mathematics - yes, it is dense, but today much of it<BR>is simply obsolete. No one wants or needs to remember all of those properties of<BR>Ylms and such. Computers and numerical approximations do most of the hard work.<BR>Not only that, but Jackson uses vector calculus to discuss classical field<BR>theories, when today we have the much more efficient tools of exterior calculus and connections available to us (which also go a long way explaining gauge theories).<BR>In other words: Jackson is mathematically outdated! Anyone with an eye towards<BR>theoretical physics should be aware of this. For a modern approach to field theories, check out the more mathematically mature \\"Classical Mathematical Physics\\" by Walter Thirring.	2002-03-04
US	42121270	R3CVHPRKB7E26V	0521468000	795806484	Differential Forms and Connections	Books	5	50	52	N	N	The ONLY book really suited for self study	I would just like to point out that Darling's book is the only book I've encountered which is suited for self study. It resembles someone's classroom notes - i.e., nothing fancy, no glossy color 3-d graphics or such - but it is very neatly organized, with many examples and helpful problems, and it is really, really suited for someone trying to study the subject by him/herself (me ... ). It is not very physically oriented - not many physical examples are provided throughout the text, and it is mathematical in nature, but don't let that deter you! In fact, the sharp distinction between mathematics and physics is pedagogically wise.<BR>Another good thing about this book is that it does not begin with completely abstract definitions. First of all it develops exterior calculus and diff. manifolds in ordinary Euclidian space. This is a must for anyone studying on their own, believe me! No matter how mathematically mature you are, those things just don't make sense unless you've seen how they work in familiar settings. You don't have to worry, though - Darling keeps his notation clean; Darling tries as hard as he can to keep everything in pure geometrical language, referring to a specific basis only when absolutely necessary (or when it helps one understand).<BR>I cannot say how good a classroom text this is, but do yourself a favor and check it out if you're thinking of studying this on your own! Darling is a clear and (equally important!) responsible teacher.	2002-03-04
US	42121270	RFT70IF7H5ZV8	0521478146	354442806	Quantum Field Theory	Books	3	28	33	N	N	Reminds me of Sakurai	This book reminds me of Sakurai's book Modern Quantum Mechanics, in that Sakurai manages to explain many topics in a very compact form, but is not always suitable<BR>for beginners who need to actually see calculations and have every step justified<BR>for them; i.e., it is a bit TOO intuitive (yes, you can be too intuitive). Intuition is great, but intuition should come from first doing calculations and proving things thoroughly, which is something this book just doesn't do.<BR>Also, the outstanding pedagogy mentioned by some other reviewers here isn't so outstanding. Allow me to give an example - on page 63 Ryder defines the little group as the subgroup of the Poincare group which leaves a certain vector invariant. Then a few lines later he writes down a certain vector and adds: &quot;what is its little group? It is clearly the rotation group, since this will have no effect on [the vector]&quot; - hardly an explanation; this look more like a tautology to me. I'm not nitpicking - this is the sort of reasoning provided in many places in the book. In my opinion, it might be good for readers who are looking for an intuitive angle on things, but for people learning QFT for the first time a book such as Bjorken and Drell will do a better job, even if not as exciting.	2002-02-15
US	42121270	R2YWDCZPO0K3NP	048664670X	895792826	Applied Complex Variables (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Everything an undergraduate should know	This is the kind of book I've looked for as an undergraduate while taking my complex variables course. This book covers the fundamentals of complex analysis - analytic functions, integration, differentiation, infinite series and products, and residue calculus - using the oh-so-familiar but oh-so-very-effective method of theorem-proof-examples with short discussions inbetween. Since this text is so well organized this alone makes it a valuable asset. But this only comprises half of the book - the other half introduces uses of complex variables, including fourier series and transforms, asymptotic expansions, ordinary differential equations, Green's functions in potential theory and many other things - a real goldmine of information, for a very low price, too! Granted, you won't find graduate-level discussions here, but this isn't what this book is meant for - undergraduates. This isn't to say this book isn't rigorous - terms such as &quot;normal convergence&quot; and &quot;compact set&quot; do occur in the book. All-in-all, this has everything you'll need unless you intend to pursue higher-level courses in complex variables.	2002-01-22
US	42121270	R3JR723SAVHVFV	0387979182	108581816	A Mathematical Introduction to Fluid Mechanics (Texts in Applied Mathematics) (v. 4)	Books	2	10	25	N	N	Stay away from this	I've taken a 3rd year undergraduate fluid mechanics course and we've used this as our textbook. It was a complete disaster. Let me start by saying this book pays absolutely no respect to its readers - it's filled not only with typos (and lots of them!) but also with very flimsy arguments. Now, whenever I do not understand an argument I usually think that I did not get it, or perhaps I do not understand the material enough, or that I simply have to fill in the gaps - but in this book, there are no gaps, the arguments are just lousy. Some steps even seem to be wrong, and I say that after debating them for a long while with my friends. I strongly recommend you eye this book with great suspicion.	2002-01-17
US	42121270	R1LLLF9Q0GWXUO	0486640396	47772988	Tensor Analysis on Manifolds (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	114	116	N	N	The pros and cons of Bishop &amp; Goldberg	I will briefly list the pros and cons of this book.<BR>The pros are (a.) its price, (b.) the amount of material it manages to cover, (c.) it is quite complete - everything is formulated and proven within the text rigorously, and it covers a lot of ground (manifolds, tensors, differentiation and integration on manifolds, connections and Riemmanian manifolds) (d.) it does not require much background - nothing more than point-set topology and calculus. It even develops all the linear algebra it needs in a single chapter - quite admirable. (e.) the exercises are nice and instructive. (f.) It makes a good reference and supplement. (g.) It has a special chapter on Riemannian manifolds - quite good for relativity courses.<BR>Now for the cons. (a.) the notation is a bit outdated. (b.) it does not treat infinite dimensional or complex manifolds. (c.) It sometimes leaves certain results for the reader to verify, which might annoy readers who simply want to get to a certain result as quick as possible. (d.) It is a bit dry. (e.) It lacks in concrete examples - that is not to say it doesn't have any examples, just that more would be much better, (f.) and this is chiefly aimed at physicits - it does not really focus on calculating things, which is what physics is all about, at the end.<BR>Having said that, I honestly say that one can learn all about basic differential geometry from this book. I don't think seeing manifolds in R^n is a basic prerequisite for studying abstract diff. geometry. This book would be a good place to start - despite its age it manages to remain very relevant today. Finally, the reader is assured that the authors won't pull off any &quot;dirty tricks&quot; (since this is basically a mathematical book) - it's very important for the reader to be able to trust the book he's reading. And the price is fantastic!	2002-01-12
US	42121270	R1MPXGHXHYSHT9	0125140819	153573014	Topology and Geometry for Physicists	Books	2	60	70	N	N	flawed and incomplete	Nash's book commits the sin many mathematical physics textbooks out there commit: \\"oh, we're writing for dimwit physicists, lets just give them a few scrawny examples and assure them everything else works alright.\\" I'm sorry but writing for physicists is NOT an excuse for writing a sloppy textbook. Would you feel alright not knowing how an integral is defined? Would you use a numerical evaluation software to calculate integrals in serious research without understanding the algorithm it uses? If you do then you're a pretty shoddy physicist. I'm not saying this out of some \\"macho\\" sentiment many purist physicists have - I'm simply saying this because I feel the way this book teaches you diff. geometry is wrong - it teaches you to draw pictures and go by the pictures. When the pictures run out, so does your understanding.<br /><br />This book is supposed to teach differential geometry. However, very little can be learned from it unless one already knows differential geometry: definitions are sometimes not general and sometimes not present at all, theorems are often stated only for special cases and even more often than that not proved at all. Sure, the book offers nice geometrical intuition, but this is not enough. An example: the book \\"proves\\" Stoke's theorem around page 40. Now, even a rigorous and condensed book would have problems doing that, considering the amount of \\"machinery\\" one needs to build up for it (tensors, differential forms, manifolds and so forth). This means the book makes a mess of it - big time.<br />There are many fine diff. geometry books out there, some for physicists, some not, which you should check out - Nakahara's text is so much better. For geometrical intuition I suggest picking up Schutz's book. Several books from the GTM (Graduate texts in mathematics series, the yellow ones) are really very accessible, such as Introduction to Topological Manifolds/Smooth Manifolds. Another good one is Allen Hatcher's Algebraic Topology for homotopy, homology and cohomology. For a good and responsible exposition, do yourself a favor and look for something else.y and cohomology. For a good and responsible exposition, do yourself a favor and look for something else.	2002-01-12
US	42121270	R2WUKKBM04Z36H	0486409244	213354069	Quantum Mechanics (2 Volumes in 1)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Handy reference	Messiah is one of those books you can't learn QM from - it's simply too dull and nitpicky, and goes into too much detail. But the same features that make it a poor book to study QM out of make it a very useful reference, and as such I heartly give it the 5 stars it deserves. <br />Messiah covers just about everything an ordinary physicist should know about basic, non-relativistic quantum mechanics, including quite a nice introduction to field quantization and relativistic wave equations. No Berry phase here, but you can find just about any other topic, treated in great detail. No assertment goes unjustified. No stone is left unturned. Messiah also has a good sense of mathematical responsibility, and includes discussions of many questions avoided in other books, e.g., how can the delta function be rigorously defined? It also has a lot of nifty little bonuses no found in other books, such as the bosonic harmonic oscillator, and perturbation expansion using complex integration of Green's function. Very interesting material hard to find elsewhere.<br />The only major problem I have with this book is that it does not treat identical particles using fock space. This is a personal quibble, though. Messiah's treatment of identical particles using permutation operators is thorough and didactic.<br />The book includes useful appendices about the definitions and properties of the special functions he uses (spherical harmonics, bessel functions, and the dreaded confluent-hypergeometric-whatever-function no one likes). Other appendices summarize all the information you'll ever need to remember about Clebsch-Gordan coefficients, and another includes a very good refreshment on group theory needed for QM.<br />This ultra-low-priced heavy-weight all-in-one Dover edition is like a gift from above. I've used and read many other texts - Baym, Sakurai, Shankar, Dirac, Merzbacher (my apologies if I've misspelled his name), Ballentine, Cohen-Tannoudji - but it's Messiah's text I first turn to for a responsible treatment of any subject I feel unsure about. It's almost like that old cliche, &quot;the pages are falling out of my edition ... &quot;	2002-01-11
US	42121270	RV6USG6UYNHX1	0486656608	231247674	The Electromagnetic Field (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Outstanding example of good pedagogy	Most EM texts out there are overpriced and underwritten. They use color drawings and shiny, glossy pages to make up for lack of content. Shadowitz's book is the exact opposite: it's a dover edition, which means it's cheap and doesn't look as good. But this is one of those cases in which you shouldn't judge a book by its cover.<BR>Shadowitz is everything a serious student would like: it covers 1st/2nd year electromagnetism with great detail. It covers many topics, from basic electrostatics and vector analysis, to radiation theory and special relativity. The explanations are always kept clear. A physical context is always provided. Many solved examples are scattered throughout the text. The problems are instructive and odd-numbered ones have solutions at the end of the book. I simply cannot feel sorry that not all books are as good as this one. Although with most Dover books you get what you pay for (which isn't much), this book is an exception. Even if you're studying advanced EM and are using, say, Jackson's text, Shadowitz's text makes a great companion.<BR>I have a few minor quibbles with the book, mainly its use of SI units, but Shadowitz provides appendices which explain how to convert between the various systems.	2002-01-10
US	42121270	R1NMP79TTCOYNF	0471569526	212903835	Quantum Mechanics (2 vol. set)	Books	3	25	34	N	N	The thing about Cohen Tannoudji ...	I read parts of Cohen Tannoudji as an undergraduate and found them helpful. However, I should warn potential buyers of several problems with this book, which is the reason why I'm writing this review: despite its huge size, Cohen Tannoudji omits many important topics which are crucial for graduates - I'm not just talking about, say, relativistic quantum mechanics and field quantization; I'm talking about the Wigner Eckhart theorem, spherical tensor operators, group theory, path integration, second order degenerate perturbation theory, fock spaces and a multitude of other topics, all quite important. That means that you're paying a lot of money for something which is only &quot;half a book&quot;, since you will sooner or later have to go out and buy another reference for those topics. I agree that Cohen Tannoudji do give detailed explanations of the material they do cover, but there is a pay to pay, viz., this is not a comprehensive book.<BR>I hope this will make you think twice before buying - not that I have anything against this book, on the contrary, I think it explains quite well the topics it does choose to cover.	2001-12-30
US	42121270	R38XVIZ1Y84I5Y	0486661695	742334510	Differential Forms with Applications to the Physical Sciences (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	24	31	N	N	Read on	Why is it that any book that contains the word &quot;physics&quot; or &quot;physical&quot; in its title feels free to be sloppy? Flander's book is sloppy. There are no shortcuts to understanding - if you want to know differential geometry you have to learn it right, not from Flander's book. For example: he devotes 3 pages to antisymmetrical tensors. The way he manages to do this is by avoiding precise definitions, or giving elaborate proofs. He does not even mention the word tensor! This is unacceptable for anyone who seeks to truly understand differential geometry. After all, if you intend to invest effort and time learning a subject, shouldn't you do it the right way?<BR>I'm not saying Flander's book is without merit - especially the low price - which might make it worthwhile purchasing it is an additional source of information, but as a primary source it is, in my opinion, a very bad one.<BR>There are many alternatives to Flander's book I suggest you check out before trying your luck with this one. The standard reference is Bishop &amp; Goldberg's &quot;Tensor analysis on manifolds&quot;. Another good book is &quot;differential forms and connections&quot; by Darling. A comprehensive book about diff. geometry is &quot;Geometry and Physics&quot; by Frankel. I'm sure others will have their personal favorites, but these are a good place to start.	2001-12-30
US	42121270	R2C8V09JBZ95LC	0387948430	456206764	Classical Mathematical Physics: Dynamical Systems and Field Theories	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The way mathematical physics ought to be taught	This book represents how a graduate course in mathematical physics ought to look like. It deals with two topics with which the reader should be very familiar, physics-speaking: particle dynamics and classical fields (e.g. Maxwell's equations). Therefore the author is justified in neglecting the physics and concentrating on the mathematics; in fact, introducing the mathematical tools using such old friends makes it easier for the reader to fully understand the mathematics, and the way it relates to the physics. <BR>There are many books on the market that teach differential geometry - Frankel's &quot;geometry and physics&quot;, Bishop and Goldberg's &quot;Tensor analysis on manifolds&quot; and countless others - but this book is something more: it deals as much with mathematical physics as it deals with the mathematics. For instance, it formulates hamiltonian mechanics for a particle in an electromagnetic field and proceeds to solve the cases of the constant field, coloumb field, travelling plane disturbances and more, all using the modern language of differential geometry all physicists should know.<BR>Although the book contains an introduction to differential geometry - which is very nice, actually, with plenty of examples and such - I strongly advise the reader to use another book as a main source book for diff. geometry, and to use Thirring's book as a supplement. Thirring's strength is not in teaching diff. geometry, it is in showing how to apply it to physics.<BR>It almost goes without saying, p.s., that the reader should have a good grasp of calculus in R^n, topology and linear algebra before approaching this book.	2001-12-28
US	42121270	RTTLIKFJ56T1B	3540414088	809321746	Quantum Mechanics: Symbolism of Atomic Measurements	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A unique perspective by a unique man	I presume I do not need to introduce Schwinger's list of credentials, including a nobel prize for QED alongside with Feynman and the third guy (I'm sorry, I never seem to remember his name). Schwinger has always had his own view of physics, much like Feynman, and in his books he usually follows that view. The consequence is a book on an old subject, such as QM, which includes many new viewpoints and ideas not found in other books, especially in use of action principles, of which Schwinger was a major proponent.<br />That being said, it should be stressed that you should not approach this book without taking a course or two in QM - Schwinger himself states so at the introduction. It would not only make the book hard to follow, but also make it pointless - the whole idea of reading this book is getting a fresh new perspective on QM. <br />For example, instead of stating the &quot;axioms&quot; of QM, Schwinger decides to examine physical experiments and try to see where these axioms come from. He is not always successful in doing that, but at the very least he should get every faithful reader to deeply ponder the foundations of QM. Instead of just writing down Schroedinger's equation and saying, &quot;this is how our system evolves in time&quot;, he decides to take an action principle as his fundamental rule for time evolution and derive Schroedinger's equation from it. In short, he turns QM upside down - and gets away with it. <br />It is definitely worthwhile checking out this book, although many will not like the idea of doing things Schwinger's way - in a sense, the book's greatest strength is also its greatest weakness. You have been warned.	2001-12-25
US	42121270	R380RZAXXPKLHU	0891902155	145164982	The Little World of Don Camillo	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Ups and downs	Being a collection of humorous short stories, this volume has ups and downs - some stories being well-written and funny, others less so. Guareschi's talent is undeniable; he opens this book by writing, &quot;My life began on the 1st of May, 1908, and between one thing and another, it still goes on.&quot; This is written humor at its best. <BR>I think partially the fault for disliking a few of the stories lies in the way I've read them - I've read too many too fast; that's like eating too much chocolate. Perhaps a more paced reader will really enjoy this book and be able to give it a 5-star rating.	2001-12-25
US	42121270	R1KARFOKDHIQYZ	0553288733	57167313	Tehanu (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 4)	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Feminism 101	This is the 4th and last book in the Earthsea quartret.<BR>After using up all his power to heal the tear in the fabric of reality, Ged returns to Gont, his first home, to learn and cope with life without magic. Alongside Ged's story, we are told the story of Tenar whom he rescued from the Tombs of Atuan in the 2nd book.<BR>Unlike the first three books, this book has almost no plot. This is in fact not a bad thing. It means Tenahu is more of a &quot;character's novel&quot;, which is fine, with the two main characters being Ged and Tenar. The book slowly unfolds and reveals their lives and their relationship.<BR>In my opinion Le-Guin botched up an opportunity at a really great novel here - there aren't many character-based works of fantasy out there. This is a rare book. The theme of losing one's power and learning to cope with it is also powerful and capable of moving, if used correctly. However, Le-Guin has turned Tenahu into a feminist manifesto. I'm all for feminism, but it has been shown in countless cases that art recruited to prove a point is at most average art. This is exactly the case with this book - in her attempt to show the value of women, Le Guin forgot about her characters and the whole coherency of the book. I think the only reason this book has survived so far is because it has the earlier 3 books to carry its weight. <BR>I felt I had to write these things down, although I don't think these comments will deter any earthsea fan from purchasing this book, and, after all, aren't we all Earthsea fans here, having reached the 4th book at all?	2001-12-19
US	42121270	R26YT8FF8K9V8B	0670841803	785392906	Peter Pan	Books	5	9	10	N	N	More for adults than for children	Peter Pan belongs to the class of children's literature that adults enjoy to read, such as The Wind in The Willows and Winnie the Pooh. In fact, I am in doubt a child would understand the basic emotion underlying this book - losing your childhood innocence, something only an adult (and the older the better) could understand. His characters are also much too complex for a child to appreciate - see, for instance, James Hook, whose only wish is to see Peter display &quot;bad form&quot;. Barrie writes  beautifully, and his first and last chapters are worth their weight in gold. Do yourself a favor - buy this book for your kids, read it for yourself.	2001-12-16
US	42121270	R1MGIPCVZJZZTM	1883011019	745749443	John Steinbeck : Novels and Stories, 1932-1937 : The Pastures of Heaven / To a God Unknown / Tortilla Flat / In Dubious Battle / Of Mice and Men (Library of America)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Some pretty amazing Steinbeck magic	This volume contains some of the earlier works of John Steinbeck. Steinbeck was a master of the English language and had the talent of using the least amount of words to convey the greatest amount of emotions. His stories are moving without being cheap. He is compassionate and had keen insight into his characters and the world at large.<BR>Reviewing each story that appears in this volume is beyond the scope of this review, and you should check out that various titles individually. I will just say a few words about the collection in general. Steinbeck's earlier works are, in my opinion, better than his later, more ambitious works. While his later works can be viewed as some sort of social criticism, these earlier works are simply his personal salute to human nature. Steinbeck knew a basic truth about writing - if you want to write a great book, before you have a great theme, make sure you have great characters, and the rest will follow.<BR>Steinbeck is both profound and very accessible at the same time, which I think is the trademark of a great author. He wrote for ordinary people (unlike, say, Joyce), and at the same time his works are complex enough to be appreciated by scholars. Whatever group you belong to, you will not regret reading this book.	2001-12-14
US	42121270	R2YK655KS0JJWU	0808587226	535136249	Pawn Of Prophecy (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (Belgariad)	Books	2	2	11	N	N	Silly adolescent fantasy	David Eddings commits every sin a writer of fantasy can: there's the wise old all-powerful magician, the big strong warrior, and the boy who is destined to fulfill an ancient prophecy; and not to forget angry Gods who for some reason turn out to be complete nincompoops and allow themselves to be defeated by humans at the end of the series (I'm not considering this a spoiler - this seems obvious). Eddings wrote in his foreword that he wrote this book in order to tackle philosophical issues that bothered him at the time. I don't know what kind of issues he had while writing this, but the deepest philosophical message you can get out of these books is something akin to love conquers all (or of the same type of &quot;keen&quot; insight). Might satisfy adolescents, but absolutely NOT for adults. I'm not a fantasy buff but I _know_ there is better fantasy out there - such as that by lord Dunsany and others. Try checking it out when you give up these books.	2001-12-13
US	42121270	R15UF078QEYSDP	0156012197	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Condescending	When shakespeare sat down to write Romeo and Juliet he didn't say, &quot;well, lets write a play about how love is stronger than death&quot;. Had he done that he wouldn't have produced Romeo and Juliet since he would be too preoccupied with getting his &quot;deep message&quot; across (so deep that it can be expressed in a sentence ... ), instead of writing a good play. Saint-Exupery did the exact opposite - it is evident that this book was written as some sort of philosophical manifesto on how adults do not appreciate life enough, as children do. The characters and plot are all secondary to that idea. The reader is reminded at every turn of this &quot;deep message&quot;, the end result being that the message and the book become vulgar, over-used, &quot;in-your-face&quot;. It personally bothered me a lot (and isn't this review personal, after all?). I gave it 3 stars instead of 1 because Saint-Exupery obviously had a great talent for conjuring up lovely scenes - such as the famous one in which the prince asks him to draw him a sheep. But these scenes cannot act as an excuse to the endless preachings of this book. Did the author really give so little credit to his potential readers while writing this? ...	2001-12-04
US	42121270	R3KU8ISUNXI59V	0140440100	589882194	The Adventures of Don Quixote (Classics)	Books	3	5	15	N	N	In sore need of an editor	Don Quixote is a touching, often funny, often sad novel. Since everybody knows what the book is about more or less I won't spend my time on it. However I do feel that this book could have used a lot of editing. The story diverges from the main plot (which is not really coherent) quite often by telling totally irrelevant tales. One such tale makes up about 250 pages of the book, and is totally unrelated to Don Quixote's travels. I know it was meant to serve (at its time) as a parody of such knightly tales, but this parody has lost all of its relevance today. I would personally recommend skipping those parts entirely (gasp!). Had it not been for them I would easily given this book 4 stars, probably 5.	2001-12-01
US	42121270	RLG5UQ8IUMVMW	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Trying to tip the balance in the way of sensibility ...	A trademark of good children's literature is that it can be read and enjoyed by adults. Now, this particular adult admits that he has not particularly enjoyed Rowling's book, despite the considerable effort he has put into trying. I cannot and will not judge its educational value, since there have been many books I've read as a child which had very little such content (such as Roald Dahl's books; and what is the educational value of Winnie the Pooh, exactly, besides being the world's most adorable bear?).<br />I can't find any faults with Rowling's writing, but on the other hand I can't find any virtues, either. Rowling's imagination is nothing more than the conscious and unconscious borrowing of cultural motifs and the mixing of them together, hoping that if she'll mix enough different motifs we won't be able to recognize them. I don't even think Rowling herself realized how lacking in originality her book is. Example: the three headed dog guarding the underground - Greek mythology. The chess game - Alice in Wonderland. Boy sent to cruel relatives (and then gets back at relatives) -almost all of Roald Dahl's books. I don't buy her arguement that these were done intentionally, and even if they were, borrowing without bounds from other works doesn't make your work any deeper or more meaningful. It's all form, not content.<br />I suppose Harry Potter has its merits and little children do enjoy reading it, but adults, unless they have a special interest in children's literature, should really try out for more adult fiction - Rowling's characters are simply one dimensional and uninteresting. If you're really feeling a rush of nostalgia, why not check out more magical children's books? George Macdonald's works are just as good today as they were in the 19th century, and Roald Dahl's books are hilarious. Life is too short to waste on mediocre fiction such as this.	2001-11-27
US	42121270	R1VU65RL4KF7DT	0879513918	754143370	Jim Button and Luke the Engine Driver	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Charming children's tale	I've read this book as a boy and it stuck with me - I remembered it fondly enough to track it down and re-read it as an adult. I am not a big fan of Ende's work, but this is really a charming little tale and a fine example of children's literature - full of imagination, adventure, and with two (actually three if you count the train) very sympathetic main characters. I warmly recommend it.	2001-11-27
US	42121270	R1RU0ZZ5PEB3DE	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Highlight of fantasy genre	Let me start off by saying that it's very sad people dislike this book just because they heard it's of the same caliber as Tolkien's work and it turned out it wasn't. Ursula Le-Guin is a good author but even good authors have a hard time when they're compared to Tolkien. Was Tchaikovsky a lousy composer just because he wasn't &quot;as good as Beethoven&quot;? (whatever that means) Was Lev Landau stupid just because he wasn't &quot;as smart as&quot; Einstein? Mind you, Le-Guin's world lacks the depth of Tolkien's, but whatever she lacks in completeness she makes up for in compelling plot and characters. Ok, so much for my penny philosophy.<br />I've read the Earthsea novels when I was a kid and have re-read them later on as an adult, and can say that, while I have no special affection for the fantasy genre, these books still stand out as being special. Le-Guin's choice of plot and characters makes this book very unique - instead of grand wizards and epic battles, she chooses a &quot;real life&quot; wizard and tells his story. Instead of the usual &quot;end-of-the-world&quot; theme she chooses his personal battle against a shadow that haunts him - due to his own actions. This book will never become a Hollywood production (thank heavens!), simply because there isn't enough eye-candy in it. That's one of the things I like about it. I am also very fond of Le-Guin's writing style, but that's a more personal choice.<br />If you feel fantasy books are all about knights in armor and robed wizards and flying dragons speaking Shakespearean English and going around saving the world (or destroying it), give this book a try, it might surprise you (for the better, I hope ... ).	2001-11-26
US	42121270	R29Q8WNRT4OBSY	0120598256	481625365	Mathematical Methods for Physicists, Fifth Edition	Books	2	17	29	N	N	NOT for (aspiring) theoretical physicists	Arfken's book is not meant for anyone who has his mind set on theoretical physics, be it superstrings or quantum chaos or anything of the sort, simply because of its use of the old methods of vector calculus (and its brother, tensor calculus). Instead of discussing differential forms, lie groups, differentiable manifolds and things of theoretical interest, he spends hundreds of pages on all sorts of odd equations which you'll probably never run into during your lifetime except in a course on mathematical physics. Perhaps engineers might adopt a different view, since they tend to deal more with differential equations - I'm talking from the theoretical perspective. I would recommend Hassani's book instead of Arfken's for these matters. Make sure you check it out before you decide on buying Arfken's book!<br />I will not deny it has its value as a reference, but even as such it also has its faults -many results are not demonstrated or even stated in the text, and are left as exercises for the reader. If this is supposed to be a reference, where are the results??? <br />Another problem this book has is that it lacks any sort of unifying theme, e.g., recasting mathematical physics using exterior calculus, or using vector spaces. Again, this might be a good thing when using it as a reference, but then again, I already mentioned it stinks as a reference as well. There are many books out there that summarize neatly the properties of all of the special functions you'll need in your lifetime.	2001-11-23
US	42121270	R1AP01MN53IJ26	0387942955	628254269	A Short Course in General Relativity	Books	1	36	44	N	N	Useless	The second edition of this book (which is what this is) is a terrible change for the worse. The first edition tried to introduce (the mathematics of) general relativity, in the &quot;geodesics&quot; method - i.e., taking the shortest route possible between two points, teaching you the mathematics and basic physical postulates and nothing more. But while the first edition used modern differential geometry, this volume has been entirely re-written in coordinates!!! This means you'll be given the old definition of a tensor as a set of numbers that transform as ... and thus taking away the book's only merit, being a modern, quick, short introduction to the mathematics of GR. Sorry, but even if I wanted a sea of indices (which I don't and no one else should) I could have picked up Weinberg's book. Try Schutz's book on general relativity instead.	2001-11-23
US	42121270	R15UIGYQDMK4XD	0195085140	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the Tenth Dimension	Books	2	10	20	N	N	NOT for theoretical physicists	I praise Kaku's lucid literary writing style, but condemn everything else about this popular physics book. Kaku mystifies physics and makes it look like some sort of cult which deals with surreal objects such as \\"hyper-dimensions\\" and \\"warped space\\" - whatever those things mean to the average person who hasn't completed his PhD in supersymmetry. Reading Kaku's book is similar to reading a science fiction novel or watching an episode of star trek - things that have nothing to do in practice with physics. What ever happened to wondering about why the sky is blue, or how a radio works? Geez ... if you're into mysticism, try this book. If you're into physics, try another.	2001-11-23
US	42121270	R11Z8ZJYR8V1IV	0444854371	559209976	Differential Forms in Mathematical Physics (Studies in Mathematics & Its Applications)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rigorous, complete and full of applications	While not the ideal candidate for a first book on the subject - although it does make an effort to justify its definitions - this is definitely the book to buy when you're looking to spend your money. It is complete, requiring some knowledge of basic topological concepts (nothing heavy), linear algebra and multivariate calculus. It contains a refresher chapter about differential calculus in R^n and then quickly moves to introduce manifolds, lie groups, bundles, connections, differential forms and so forth. Three things make this book shine: 1. the amount of material in it, 2. the very neat fashion in which it's organized, and 3. the amount of examples found in it. It explains the application of differential geometry to mechanics, electrodynamics, thermodynamics and even has a chapter on general relativity! In short, once you've completed an introductory book, this will definitely be a good choice for a second book.	2001-11-20
US	42121270	RX24XL2BO9VVW	1882968115	345979486	Galactic Patrol (The Lensman Series, Book 3)	Books	1	8	25	N	N	I am appalled!	This must be one of the worst science fiction novels I've ever read,<BR>and the fact that everyone else here has given it five stars indicates<BR>one of three things:<BR>i. I am a lousy judge of books.<BR>ii. The others are lousy judges.<BR>iii. The others are all 10 years old or under.<BR>Let me explain.<BR>E. E. Smith deserves 5 stars for originality; when these books came out<BR>in the late 30's they set the standards for all space operas to come.<BR>I gave him one star for literary quality, since today I no longer can<BR>(or wish) to judge them according to their originality. <BR>Lets begin with language. Smith uses long and complicated sentences,<BR>which seem like they've come right out of the operating manual of my<BR>my Sony dvd player. Cumbersome would be the best word to describe his<BR>linguistical efforts. <BR>His characters are 2 - no, wait, 1 - dimensional - no, wait, they<BR>even have fractional dimensionality. They are not stereotypes. Stereo<BR>would imply too much complexity. There are no moral conflicts, no <BR>real drive for the hero - he's simply doing what he does because its<BR>his JOB! - no fleshed out personality.<BR>The &quot;big&quot; plot is fine, but it progresses in a way that reminds me of<BR>Saturday morning cartoons: good guys fight bad guys with big ship,<BR>bad guys fight good guys with bigger ship, good guys fight bad guys<BR>with bigger ship, etc. This is acceptable in a 30-minutes show aimed<BR>at kids, not in a 4-novel series! <BR>Even the theme of the book itself is morally repugnant - eugenics.<BR>But I won't spoil the ending (of the last book) for those who want<BR>to go and bash their heads against the wall of Smith's literary<BR>incompetence. It isn't &quot;fun&quot;. This is masochism.<BR>I'm all for a good space opera every now and then, but please, this one<BR>is redundant. I grant it its place in the SF hall of fame, and I hope<BR>it stays there, and away from me. I can't say how sorry I am I wasted<BR>4 whole days ofmy life reading this series. If you're looking for<BR>good science fiction, try Philip K. Dick or Stanislaw Lem. NOT Smith.<BR>(By the way, if I didn't make myself clear - I don't like this book.)	2001-11-05
US	42121270	R26ZILJLCHL3AS	0140187502	163297853	Sweet Thursday (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Not anywhere near the original	It seems like Steinbeck tried a little too hard to be witty, too hard<BR>to be philosophical, too hard to be human and sweet. What made the original <BR>Cannery Row so enjoyable was its relaxed style and atmosphere. This book <BR>is fun to read, but still is coerced. I guess sequels never do work out . . .	2001-10-20
