US	42173554	R3ME51EXBA75OL	0743224876	831264336	Confessions of a Street Addict	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Astounding	Wow.  I have to say that, when I picked up this book, I was not prepared for the profound impression it would make on me.  I have followed Cramer for a short time now, as long as I have followed the stock market, and have been very impressed by what strikes me as his candidness and apparent sincerity.  Cramer, unlike so many Wall Street bigshots (not that Cramer is a bigshot), seems to genuinely care about those he sets out to advise, and this is what drew me to his book. <br /> <br />First, let me say that Cramer is a remarkably good writer, and recounts his story in such an intense, exciting, yet compelling way that I don't see how anyone could not be drawn in by this book, no matter how little interest they have in Wall Street.  Second, while I wouldn't call Cramer an egomaniac (as others have done), I certainly agree that the man has a lot of self-confidence (that's what makes him such a good investor), and that confidence certainly comes through in this book. <br /> <br />Finally, Cramer is so brutally honest in this book (I've heard him say many times on the radio that he's embarrassed of how open he was) that you cannot help but like the guy.  He did some horrible things in his quest to rise to the top of the financial world, but he admits what he did and takes the blame for all of his misdeeds.  This is a great book from a fascinating man, and one which paints a very clear picture of the price men often pay for success on Wall Street.	2004-10-09
US	42173554	R2JR0Y33HRP0E6	0803212739	728986739	The Chessboard of War: Sherman and Hood in the Autumn Campaigns of 1864 (Great Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An excellent and objective account of these campaigns	This book is a very thorough and detailed account of two of the Civil Wars' most important and consequential campaigns, but sadly two campaigns about which relatively little has been written.  Sherman's march to the sea and Hood's campaign into Tennessee destroyed the last hope for the Confederacy in the Deep South, and did much to undermine the confidence of Lee's army.  Without Sherman's psychological victory over the Southern psyche, and without Hood's rash attacks on Franklin and Nashville, the war, at least in that theater, would probably have been prolonged for at least another year.  Both men, in their own way, contributed to the war's ending, and this is one of Bailey's main focuses.<BR> <BR>This book provides a detailed narrative of the operations of both generals, and discusses how the actions of each affected the other, as well as the ramifications of Hood and Sherman's respective movements.  Sherman comes off looking quite well, though not perfect, while Hood comes across as a tragic sort of hero who was too impetuous for his own good.  Through it all Bailey remains objective and fair, and provides the reader with a very good look at the &quot;chessboard&quot; of the late Civil War.	2004-04-04
US	42173554	R2UK8FBZUXJWG8	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A comic mid-life initiation story	This is an interesting piece of expatriate literature.  The &quot;Lost Generation&quot;--represented by the likes of Hemingway and Fitzgerald--churned out a host of literature that dealt with an America that was recovering from two world wars, and that was just beginning to realize its significance as a world power.  This book belongs to the next generation of Americans, one who may not be able to find all of the answers in America but who nevertheless has a sense of national identity.  It is a tale of a man named Henderson, an eccentric American millionaire who realizes he is searching for something and has to go to Africa to find it.  Henderson, a man who never seems to do anything right, finds himself on the African continent, and learns enough about life to give him the direction he needs.<BR> <BR>This book is very entertaining.  Bellow's prose is intriguing and his dialogue interesting.  At times, this book is so absurd it is downright funny, and Henderson is the perfect sort of unlikely and hapless hero that most of us can relate to.  All in all, this is a great book for anyone interested in twentieth-century literature, particularly expatriate literature.	2004-03-19
US	42173554	RAGXV4778R5XD	0192833928	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A fascinating look at Russian nihilism	This book is an interesting look at Russia in a time of change.  Nihilism was gaining favor, the serfs had been emancipated, and the old way of life had begun to die.  In this work, Turgenev explores the nature of the conflict between old, traditional values of class and custom and the new way of thinking.  The title, Fathers and Sons, is aptly named, for this novel examines the gap between two generations' way of thinking.  On the one side, the sons represent a new way of thinking called nihilism.  Bazarov, the main character in the nihilist camp, represents the new generation of thinkers, those who accept nothing on authority and question everything.  He influences a young man named Arkady, who becomes a sort of disciple of his.  On the other side, Nikolai and Pavel, Arkady's father and uncle, respectively, represent &quot;Old Russia.&quot;  Nikolai is a landowner and, though he has emancipated his peasants and tries to be progressive, is stuck in the past.  Pavel is the extreme traditionalist, representing everything that Russia was at the turn of the nineteenth century.<BR>  <BR> Turgenev uses these characters to explore the strengths and weaknesses of each way of thinking.  The book seems to make the statement that the old way of life is inadequate and needs to be replaced, though he does not provide a solution.  At any rate, Turgenev does not seem confident that nihilism can provide the necessary change.  In the end, Arkady drifts away from Bazarov's influence, and becomes a sort of compromise between Bazarov's way of thinking and Nikolai's, and in this there is, it seems, at least a partial solution.  Though he does not propose to solve the problems he points out in this novel, Turgenev sheds some interesting light on the subject of nihilism vs. traditionalism at a time of social upheaval in Russia.	2004-03-19
US	42173554	R3I0M9RNW4SXX4	0837172446	350967675	Border Command: General Phil Sheridan in the West	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good, if not comprehensive, look at Sheridans later career	This book is an examination of General Sheridan's post-Civil War activities in the West.  Far from being a biography of Sheridan, however, this book examines the issues relevant in the various capacities in which Sheridan served, and looks at the way they were handled, both by Sheridan and his subordinates.  This work is far from being a comprehensive look at Sheridan's post-war career, and in fact covers only the most important topics (the most prevalent being the Indian Wars), but it nevertheless serves its purpose.  By itself, this cannot be considered a definitive work, but as part of a study, either of Sheridan or of the frontier army, this book is definitely worthy of consideration.	2004-02-25
US	42173554	R2O85ZWEVRZM1H	0837192803	950639439	McClellan, Sherman and Grant	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great insight on three significant generals	This short book is really three separate essays about three of the North's most controversial generals.  They seem to be arranged in the author's estimation of them, with McClellan being the poorest general and Grant the best.  The essays are insightful, and Williams argues some interesting points that differ from what most historians believe, especially in the case of Sherman and McClellan.  Throughout it all, he seems to remain, for the most part, fair, neither condemning nor fully praising any of the three.  I don't personally agree with his argument that the primary objective in war should be destroying the enemy's army, and thus would rank Sherman higher than Grant, but I do think he makes an interesting point.  If this book was documented (that is, if Williams showed where he got his information), it would be a lot better, and a lot more scholarly, but as it stands it is nevertheless an interesting argument on three of the North's most important generals.	2004-02-22
US	42173554	R23R6HJ5CI7XB	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	1	1	N	N	classic Hemingway	This interesting piece of expatriate literature is a fascinating look at the post World War One &quot;Lost Generation,&quot; to which Hemingway himself claimed to belong.  Through the eyes of the main character, Jake, we see what life was like for an American living in Europe in the post-war years.  The relationship between Jake and the other main character, Brett, provides another interesting view of the moral and social values of this time.  The plot of the novel is focused on bullfighting in Spain, though the fights seem to be merely a backdrop for the interaction between Brett, her fiancee Mike, Jake, and their American friends Robert and Bill.  Throughout the book, we see interaction between the characters that reflect Hemingway's view of expatriate society at that time.<BR> <BR>This is a very entertaining book.  It is lighter than some of Hemingway's other work (such as For Whom the Bell Tolls), and is in some ways more readable.  The book is very well written, but the dialogue is what makes this work truly great.  It is at times funny, at times serious, at times biting, and at times just plain entertaining.  This is the book that made Hemingway a force to be reckoned with, and, reading it, I can see why.  This is a great book for any fan of Hemingway or for anyone interested in good modern literature.	2004-02-15
US	42173554	R38J9QPWBI4391	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A brilliant work of modern literature	I thought I had reached the high point of Fitzgerald's work when I read The Great Gatsby.  I was wrong.  This book is not as organized nor as focused as Fitzgerald's more popular work, but, in my opinion, it is better.  The characters are astoundingly complex, and are fascinating to read about and get to know.  The setting--various places in Europe--is brilliantly depicted.  But what makes this book great is the interaction between the characters.  It is a story of the Divers, Dick and Nicole, a couple who all but trade roles in the course of the novel.  The story opens with Rosemary, a young actress, as she meets the Divers and is completely enthralled by them.  Through Rosemary we see that the Divers are, in fact, very nearly the ideal couple at the beginning of the book; but this apparent bliss is a mask of a deep, complex, and difficult history, and an awful foreshadowing of a tragedy to come.   The story moves backward to Dick and Nicole's meeting, then forward again to the tragic climax.<br /> Dick, a psychiatrist, met Nicole at his clinic, where she was a patient.  He was a brilliant young doctor and successful author, she, a broken and troubled youth.  Dick helped her put the pieces back together, and married her.  They lived an almost blissful existence for a time, but then Nicole began to relapse.  The bulk of the novel deals with Nicole's problems and her struggle to overcome them, as well as Dick's growing problems, which he, with all his training, is not so able to move past.  Dick and Nicole's relationship develops into something ugly, a shattered remnant of its past glory.  And what is worse, it isn't even really Nicole's fault.<br /> Fitzgerald has a gift for beautiful prose and a talent for storytelling that is almost unparalleled in literature.  This book should be considered a classic, and surely deserved to emerge from the shadow of its sister work, The Great Gatsby, and be regarded as the masterpiece that it is.	2004-02-15
US	42173554	R1Q0VJM2C4SIH1	0026212501	500446258	Frontier Regulars: The United States Army and the Indian, 1866-1891	Books	5	20	21	N	N	An indispensable look at the frontier army	A great deal has been written about the United States Army during the Civil War.  But tales of the postwar army can be just as thrilling as stories from the war, though this portion of military history is, sadly, often overlooked.  Robert Utley attempts to correct this oversight in this excellent book, which deals with the nature, structure, and activity of the portion of the army engaged on the frontier from immediately after the Civil War until Wounded Knee.  Arranged in an order that is easy to follow and is logical if not always strictly chronological, each major military operation against the Native Americans is handled with skill and sufficient detail.  The result is a fascinating look at the army as a whole.<br /> The main value of this book lies in the fact that it provides an outstanding overview of military operations as a whole (as opposed to books that treat just one battle or campaign).  The work fills in many holes that will undoubtedly exist for anyone who has studied a part of the Indian Wars, and who would like to have a more general overview available to them.  Anyone who has studied the Little Bighorn, for example, will find in this book a wealth of information that will explain in great detail many of the factors that led up to that action and also many of its ramifications.  This book is essential to any study of Western history, especially military history.	2004-02-06
US	42173554	R3D3Z1XY7S350J	067972463X	431986566	The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A genius?  Hmmm..	This book is an interesting look at the art and literary scene of Paris at the turn of the century.  This book is actually more of an autobiography of Gertrude Stein, but supposedly is written through the eyes of her longtime companion Alice Toklas.  Many who knew Toklas said that Stein imitated her voice and style perfectly, and perhaps that is why it is considered such a great work of literature.  For my part I enjoyed the narrative, thought I was not particularly fond of the way it was written.  I realize this is a style unique to Stein, but it just didn't work for me.  <BR> <BR>The most fascinating part of this work is seeing such great figures as Picasso and Hemingway through the eyes of Stein/Toklas.  Even TS Eliot makes a brief appearance.  The narrative is very interesting for this reason--with all these great figures around, how could it not be amusing?  And, of course, Stein does not hesitate to use the medium of Toklas to proclaim that she is one of the three actual 'geniuses' that Toklas has ever met (incidentally, this short list excludes both Hemingway and Eliot).  In fact there is an awful lot of egotism apparent throughout this book, and it is very irritating at times.  Still, this is a very interesting look at Paris before, during, and after the first World War, and provides fascinating insight into a circle of painters, musicians, and literary figures that I'm sure many people would gladly give a limb to have belonged to.	2004-02-06
US	42173554	RU4FLX44KJBQI	0814730019	289282230	The March to the Sea and Beyond: Sherman's Troops in the Savannah and Carolinas Campaigns (American Social Experience Series, Volume 1)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A look at 'Uncle Billy's boys	This book contains an examination of the army that General William Tecumseh Sherman led through Georgia and the Carolinas, in late 1864 and early 1865.  Instead of being just another narrative of the March to the Sea and Carolina campaigns, however, Glatthaar's book is a look at the individuals that composed the army.  In it, he examines the social and ideological backgrounds of the men in Sherman's army, and evaluates how they felt about various factors of the war--slavery, the union, and, most significantly, the campaign in which they were participating.  The result is a fascinating look at Sherman's campaigns through the eyes of the everyday soldier.  Glatthaar makes the army come alive, and shows the men not as heartless animals who delighted in wanton destruction, not as mechanized marching machines who could perform the most difficult marches without even flinching, but instead as real human beings, complete with sore feet, empty stomachs, and minds engaged in contemplation over the ethical ramifications of what they were doing to the people of the South.<BR> <BR>This book, and others like it (such as James McPherson's For Cause and Comrades), is a refreshing change from the norm in Civil War history.  The value of this book lies in its helping the reader understand that the war was fought by individuals, not masses of blue and gray, and that these individuals felt and thought a great deal about the cause they were engaged in.  I have read much on the subject of Sherman's march, but never before this book did I truly feel like I understood the mentality of the 60,000 man army he led.  This book will not give you a detailed and thorough account of Sherman's campaigns, but it will give anyone who already is somewhat familiar with the marches an incredible amount of insight that, I believe, cannot be gained elsewhere.	2004-01-27
US	42173554	RJMOKCTMAW963	0806127694	501155343	William Tecumseh Sherman and the Settlement of the West	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A great work on an overlooked portion of Sherman's life	There are literally dozens of biographies on General William T. Sherman.  But this is the only one, at least of which I am aware, that deals with the eighteen years of Sherman's military career AFTER the Civil War in any amount of detail. It is sad that such an important work as Sherman's in the West should be overlooked, but Robert G. Athearn attempts to correct this oversight with this work.  Athearn's treatment of Sherman commences right after the Civil War, when Sherman became commander of the Division of the Missouri, and ends with Sherman's retirement.  The book deals with Sherman's relations with the railroad, with his dealings with the press, and with how he treated the Indian question.<br /> As stated, this book is not a biography of Sherman's whole life.  Instead, it is a concise and detailed study of what Athearn considers the most important years of Sherman's professional life.  It is Athearn's contention that, though he had been the hero of Atlanta and the march to the sea, Sherman's most important military contributions took place East of the Mississippi River.  His argument, while perhaps not totally convincing, is nevertheless worthy of consideration.  Sherman saw the importance of the intercontinental railroad and, as Athearn points out at some length, did all he could to help push that project along.  He also devotes considerable space to Sherman's relations with the Indians.<br /> This is a very good book.  Sherman's part in the Indian Wars is often overlooked, but Athearn narrates the problems with the Native Americans through Sherman's eyes, and looks, in a sense, at a larger view of the problem.  Throughout the book Athearn maintains objectivity, though it does seem his sympathies lie with the general.  The only problem I have with this book is when Athearn tries to get inside his subject's head.  Though it happens fairly often, this does not really detract from the book.  Still, such statements as &quot;Sherman must have felt that...&quot; or&quot;Sherman longed to be...&quot; are annoying, and detract from the overall quality of the book.<br /><br />This book is unique, and as such is a very valuable resource.  I consider this book to be essential to any study of the life of Sherman, as well as essential to any student of the postwar Army or the Plains Indian Wars.	2004-01-25
US	42173554	R1CII4FZFDLMBW	080611357X	819834041	My Life on the Plains: Or, Personal Experiences with Indians (The Western Frontier Library Series)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Indian fighting according to Custer	This book is a partial memoir of General George Armstrong Custer, of Little Bighorn fame.  This work does not cover Custer's campaigns against the Cheyennes and Sioux, however, nor does it detail his flamboyant career in the Civil War.  Instead, this book is literally an account of Custer's life on the plains, and covers his experiences with the Kiowa, Comanche, Arapaho, and Cheyenne Indians of the plains of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas.  Despite the fact that this record is so incomplete a picture of Custer's life, however, this book is very valuable in that it covers the very controversial winter campaign of 1868-1869, which climaxed in Custer's attack of Black Kettle's village on the Washita River.<br /><br />Custer had a remarkable gift for storytelling, and his prose, though flowery and often somewhat extravagant (as I envision the man himself), is crisp and engaging.  In addition, this book provides a valuable look at the life of an army soldier campaigning against the Indians after the Civil War.  The book may be very biased, and it may in fact contain many points of exaggeration, but it nevertheless is a valuable resource for any study of the Indian Wars.	2004-01-24
US	42173554	R8GPQVNSKQ03R	0460876171	754374116	Wings of the Dove (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Worth it if you work for it	You really have to work for what you get out of this book.  The thick prose is difficult, and the long, rambling sentences and page-and-a-half paragraphs require the whole of the reader's attention.  This is certainly not a book that I would be able to read on a trip, in a public place, or when I'm tired.  That having been said, this is a great piece of literature that demonstrates an interesting contrast in European and American society.  The story revolves around a conspiracy by two individuals, Kate Croy and Merton Densher (both Londoners), against a young, rich American girl named Milly.  The ultimate goal of these two is to get the dying Milly's vast fortune for themselves when she dies.  Densher, who is not a wealthy man, would by gaining Milly's fortune to gain enough social standing to gain the consent of Kate's rich aunt Maud for Kate's hand in marriage. <BR> <BR>The motives of the pair are not completely selfish.  Milly is dying, it is true, but as long as she enjoys life she does well, and the doctor pronounces that the more joy she can have, the better.  Kate is a good friend of Milly's, and knows (or at least thinks) that her last days will be happy with even the artificial love of Densher.<BR> <BR>The contrast between American and European society comes in the question of social standing.  As Maud puts it, and as everyone understands it, Densher is not 'good enough' for Kate.  Milly, though many times more wealthy, has no such scruples, and the common Densher is plenty good for her, even though she's also being pursued by a nobleman named Lord Mark.  Milly sees Densher's personality as the core of her fondness for him, and cares nothing for his social standing.  Maud, though she really likes Densher, will not consent to Kate's marriage to him for the simple fact that he is, essentially, nobody.<BR> <BR>The ultimate distinction between Europe and America is the fact that the Europeans, especially Aunt Maud, will do nothing for anybody unless it will somehow benefit themselves.  Maud is a grand hostess, and a generous woman, but only when it works to her advantage.  The climax of the novel is when Milly proves herself the stronger in character, by committing an act so charitable, though she knows of the plot against her, that only Densher can truly understand it, and Kate is left at a loss.  Densher and Kate have a chance to redeem themselves, and the truly climactic finish of the novel is an interesting look at how the Londoners (Kate and Densher), so different in social standing, deal with this chance.<BR> <BR>Overall this is a very good book.  I would not call it an enjoyable read, because of the complex and often confusing prose, but it nevertheless is worth reading, both for the message it conveys and for the fascinating and multifaceted characters.	2004-01-23
US	42173554	RJX68U4NYEI4Y	080611357X	928313177	My Life on the Plains: Or, Personal Experiences with Indians (The Western Frontier Library Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Indian fighting according to Custer	This book is a partial memoir of General George Armstrong Custer, of Little Bighorn fame.  This work does not cover Custer's campaigns against the Cheyennes and Sioux, however, nor does it detail his flamboyant career in the Civil War.  Instead, this book  is literally an account of Custer's life on the plains, and covers his experiences with the Kiowa, Comanche, Arapaho, and Cheyenne Indians of the plains of Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas.  Despite the fact that this record is so incomplete a picture of Custer's life, however, this book is very valuable in that it covers the very controversial winter campaign of 1868-1869, which climaxed in Custer's attack of Black Kettle's village on the Washita River.  <BR> <BR>The question of whether Black Kettle and his band were hostile at the time they were attacked, as well as the question of whether innocent women and children had been wantonly slaughtered in the attack, is one of the driving forces behind this book.  In it, Custer attempts to describe life as he lived it on the Plains, and attempts to paint a picture of the army that would persuade people back East that his Seventh Cavalry had acted in good faith, both in the battle and in the rest of the campaign that year.  Custer had a remarkable gift for storytelling, and his prose, though flowery and often somewhat extravagant (as I envision the man himself), is crisp and engaging.  In addition, this book provides a valuable look at the life of an army soldier campaigning against the Indians after the Civil War.  The book may be very biased, and it may in fact contain many points of exaggeration, but it nevertheless is a valuable resource for any study of the Indian Wars.	2004-01-23
US	42173554	R3755BAQPETS6G	0672517825	42597326	Merchant of Terror General Sherman and Total War	Books	1	13	46	N	N	A poor attempt to discredit a great Union general	This book alleges to be an analysis of Sherman's total war policy of the late Civil War.  In fact, it is more of a chronicle of crimes, real and imaginary, supposed to have been condoned, even encouraged, by General Sherman.  It is Walters' contention that Sherman began using total war in Memphis, and developed a policy of plunder and anarchy, completely disregarding the rules of warfare and of civilization, and perpetuated an unprecedented reign of terror and barbarity against the poor, defenseless people of the South.  Sherman's motives are always construed as the worst possible, and his virtuous and good deeds are always given an alterior motive.  An example:  when Columbia, SC, was burned (and not by Sherman), Sherman himself helped fight the fires for most of a night.  Walters conveniently forgets this fact.  Later, Sherman gave over 500 head of cattle to the city for the relief of those left destitute by the fire.  This Walters admits, but insists that they were the poorest the Union had.<br /> My objection to biographies, such as this one, that do nothing but attempt to debase the character of the subject is simple.  Generally they are written to satisfy some personal vendetta felt toward the subject, as is clearly the case with Walters.  Like many biographies of this type, he takes things out of context and uses them as evidence, is completely one-sided in his approach, tells part of the story without attempting to round out the narrative, and ignores much in the way of evidence that would not support his argument (as, for example, the evidence of Sherman helping to fight the fires of Columbia).<br /> The cruelty attributed to Sherman by Walters is unrestrained and monstrous.  Such ridiculously strong sentiments such as that Sherman &quot;had hardened his heart and shut out the voice of conscience&quot; (page 74), that Sherman's men spread terror through &quot;sheer joy&quot; (126), and that Sherman &quot;set himself up to judge what constituted right and wrong&quot; (128) are ludicrous for the strength of their language, yet this is how Walters would have us see Sherman.<br /> There are a number of problems with his argument.  If Sherman was so barbarous, so cruel, why did his army (and several very good high-ranking officers) follow him with such dedication?  Surely SOMEONE must have had a conscience among them.  Also, if Sherman was such a monster, why is it that many Southerners, including Generals Hood and Johnston (whose armies were opposing Sherman during this time), remained or became good friends of Sherman's after the war?  If Johnston hated Sherman as much as Walters implies he did, I doubt he would have served as pall-bearer at Sherman's funeral.<br /> The solution is simple.  Walters uses mostly Southern testimony to establish that Sherman was a monstrous barbarian.  He also makes use of the testimony of newspaper correspondents, who had much reason to taint their stories about Sherman.  He even goes so far as to say that Sherman had several newspaper correspondents on his staff!  Anyone acquainted with the life of Sherman will laugh at this ridiculous assertion.<br /><br /> In this book, Walters will tell you that Sherman ordered random civilians killed for no real reason.  He will tell you, too, that Sherman's men were given free rein to do whatever they wanted.  The value of this book, if there is any, is that it shows the force of Sherman's 'psychological warfare.'  He crushed the spirit of the South in a way that made them want to end the war, and much of the feeling he created while doing so has survived even to the present day.  Though Walters argues that Sherman's campaigns were wholly unnecessary (without even attempting to explain how the North otherwise could have subdued Georgia and South Carolina), the simple fact is that Sherman's actions, call them what you will, helped bring an end to the war.	2004-01-21
US	42173554	R7L30JKEM0Z1P	0806133872	489108827	Cavalier in Buckskin: George Armstrong Custer and the Western Military Frontier (Oklahoma Western Biographies)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A brief but informative look at the life of this great man	This is a very short biography (just under 200 pages, not counting the pictures) of one of the most flamboyant and controversial military figures in our nation's history.  Volumes could be written about George Custer, and indeed have been, and yet still there could never be a consensus as to the man's character, his skill as a warrior, and the amount of blame he should shoulder for charging headlong into immortality when he and part of his regiment were wiped out at the Little Bighorn.  Custer is one of those figures on whom it would be difficult to write a good biography in 500 pages.  Somehow, Utley has done it in 200.<br /> This work is by no means thorough, but rather provides a good introduction and outline of Custer's life.  Not a lot of detail is provided about any one phase of Custer's adult life--boy general, frontier greenhorn, Indian fighter extraordinaire--and yet there is enough information here to get a good idea of what Custer the man must have been like.  I think it is outside of the scope of this book to psychoanalyze this complex individual, or to analyze his several controversial achievements, from Civil War battles to an Indian attack on the Washita River to rushing into battle at the Little Bighorn without the necessary reconnaissance, and yet Utley manages to put things into a perspective that at least seems reasonable and fair, if not conclusive.  His section on the Little Bighorn battle is concise, to the point, and objective, and, though he tends to imply that the blame for Custer's death cannot be fixed entirely on Custer's rashness, yet he does not attempt to deify or exonerate the man wholly from blame.  <BR> <BR>This book was meant to be a short introduction into Custer's life, and in that it fills its purpose completely.  For students seeking a deeper and more thorough understanding of Custer, however, a larger work is needed.  Still, this book is immensely valuable in that it provides a short, objective, and concise narrative of the life of George Armstrong Custer.	2004-01-21
US	42173554	RB776BSPYO6KB	0029201357	269467708	Sherman: A Soldier'S Passion For Order	Books	3	11	13	N	N	An interesting look at General Sherman	Marszalek's narrative of the life of Union General William Tecumseh Sherman focuses on order.  It is Marszalek's contention that Sherman's early life left him with a lifelong fear of the disorganized, and that, for this reason, he strove to find and maintain order throughout his life.  It is a compelling argument, and certainly worthy of consideration.  Sherman WAS a stickler for order and discipline--his Civil War record testifies of that.  Marszalek succeeds admirably in linking Sherman's earlier life to his later obsession with having things the 'right way.' <br /> As a biography of Sherman, however, this volume falls short in many respects.  Sherman's Civil War career is given only about 200 of 500 pages.  The account is sparse, and seldom is enough detail given that anyone without a previous knowledge of Sherman's campaigns would be able to understand what is being narrated.  The last 100 pages or so of the book are disappointing--instead of a detailed description of Sherman's later life, there is a rambling string of thoughts with little or no reference to very important events.  Sherman's promotion to the rank of lieutenant general (and later full general), his appointment as chief of the army, and his post-war relationships with men such as Sheridan and Schofield are only vaguely alluded to, and are not actually treated as separate events.  When describing Grant as the President of the United States, Marszalek expects the reader to be familiar with events surrounding his coming into the presidency.  Grant's, Sheridan's, and even Sherman's wife Ellen's deaths are not described until the very last chapter, and then (with the exception of Ellen) with no more detail than the simple statement that they were dead. <br /> Despite this failure of the latter part of the biography, Marszalek's work nevertheless is valuable.  His analysis of Sherman's psyche is, for the most part, good (at least apart from the fact that nearly every early event in Sherman's early lifeis described as an 'omen' of things to come), and the argument he advances for why Sherman turned out the way he did is sound.  Marszalek speaks at great lengths of Sherman's total war policy, but in this it seems, to me at least, that he is misunderstanding.  His analysis of Sherman's military genius and the development of his strategy is admirable, but I do not agree with his labeling the advance on Atlanta total war.  To me, at least, total war was the march to the sea, was the 50-mile swath of devastation left by Sherman's 'bummers' as they consumed everything of value in their path.  Still, even if the label of total war is erroneously applied to all of Sherman's independent campaigns in 1864-65, Marszalek's examination of these campaigns, and examination what made Sherman proceed the way he did, is very thought-provoking. <br /> I cannot call this the perfect work on Sherman, but I do believe it is good.  Despite any other flaws, Marszalek is fair in his treatment of Sherman, and in that respect triumphs.  In short, this is a good biography of a great man, and, even considering the disappointing last several chapters, worthy to be labeled good Civil War history.	2004-01-21
US	42173554	R1PE03VLITCW1T	0940450585	513924680	Ulysses S. Grant : Memoirs and Selected Letters : Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant / Selected Letters, 1839-1865 (Library of America)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	US Grant--in his own words	The story of Ulysses Simpson Grant is a tale about a man who rises from obscurity to become one of the most important men of the nineteenth century.  Many men saw Grant, as general-in-chief of the Union armies during the late Civil War, as the savior of the nation.  He was elected to two terms as President, and enjoyed such immense popularity that he was lavished with praise and gifts around the globe when he traveled the world.  But Grant's origins were humble.  He was the son of a tanner.  As a young man he failed at nearly everything he did, and had a reputation, while stationed with the army in California, of being a drunk.  Grant seemed the antithesis of greatness; yet somehow he rose to become one of the most prominent men in the United States during the Civil War.<br /> Who better to tell Grant's story than himself?  His memoirs are somewhat self-serving, and Grant does not hesitate to point out the flaws of others.  All too often he reminds his reader that, had things been done his way, disasters would have been avoided and everything would have been all right.  There is some reason for his ego, however.  Grant had a lot of critics, and was treated unfairly by many from the beginning.  When his army was surprised at Shiloh, people said he was drunk.  When he stalled outside of Vicksburg, they blamed it one the bottle.  Grant's name was connected by some scandal or other through most of his Civil War career (as well as during his presidency).  If he seeks to right some wrongs and, in the process, comes across as a little full of himself in his memoirs, who can blame him?<BR> <BR>Grant gives great descriptions of many battles and campaigns, but sparse accounts of others.  He avoids sensitive subjects (like the bottle, for example), and does tend to focus on what he did RIGHT rather than what he did WRONG.  Despite these inconsistencies, however, Grant's memoirs are a great read.  Grant tells his side of the story, and the result is a very entertaining read.  Grant's style is engaging, and while not focusing too much on exact figures (Sherman's memoirs are much better for that), he manages to convey to the reader the most important aspects of each major action in which he was involved.  Grant may not have been the best general in the war, but he was certainly the right man for the job.  Read these memoirs for a look inside the complex mind of the man who took on Robert E. Lee--and actually won.	2004-01-16
US	42173554	R3SVXBUJ8GFLI1	0802806414	864999995	The Pilgrim's Regress	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An allegorical journey to faith	This was the first book written by CS Lewis after his conversion to Christianity, and was also his first book of fiction.  This allegorical look at &quot;the narrow road&quot; of Christianity set the stage in many ways for much of Lewis's later fiction:  the Space Trilogy, Till We Have Faces, and the Chronicles of Narnia, for example.  In much of Lewis's later fiction the allegory was less prominent and more attention was paid to the story.  This book also varies from Lewi''s other fiction in that it is more autobiographical.  The main character, John, encounters many different schools of thought and endures much of the intellectual uncertainty that Lewis himself experienced in the time leading up to his conversion.  <BR> <BR>Lewis's allegory is absolutely spectacular, though it is necessary to have a pretty thorough knowledge of Lewis's way of thinking in order to follow the allegory.  The headers at the top of the page do a great deal to clarify, and help the reader avoid getting lost in all the symbolism.  This is especially useful when John is encountering some movement which, though prevalent in Lewis's time, is not very well-known today.  Despite the excellent headers, however, the best preparation for this book would be to read Lewis's autobiographical Surprised by Joy.  Exposure to this book, along with some of Lewis's other apology, will definitely enrich the experience of reading from this excellent book.<BR> <BR>Lewis had a talent for explaining things in such a way that nearly anyone could understand them.  Nowhere is this more apparent than in his fiction.  The lessons he teaches, through his fiction and non-fiction alike, are important insights into the worlds of Christianity and morality.	2004-01-16
US	42173554	R3JLT0W4F1FVIS	0375411739	30170986	The Confessions (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	16	26	N	N	Very deep and laborious reading, but well worth it	St. Augustine was the first, and is arguably the most influential, of the major Christian apologists.  In a time when Christianity was gaining momentum in the Roman Empire but was still mostly confined to the poor and uneducated, Augustine's theological treatises and apology made Christianity more valid, and in many cases more acceptable, to the learned in Rome.  This autobiography, detailing Augustine's early life with a special emphasis on what made him convert to Christianity, made a tremendous contribution to the work of the sect.  <br /> Augustine deals with several topics in this book.  He explores why we sin, how it affects God, and how He tries to win us back.  He discusses learning and the effect of worldly wisdom and human interpretation of divine will, and attempts to reconcile earthly learning to spiritual growth.  In the last three books he discusses time and creation with God.  This is definitely heavy reading, but while Augustine's argument is very detailed and is sometimes difficult to comprehend, it is not poorly organized.  For the most part the narrative is smooth, though the last three books do lag a little bit compared with the rest of the work.<br /> Augustine's work has endured for more than a millennium and a half.  Christianity has evolved, and has branched into many different and often opposing factions, but Augustine's work and his message still carry the great weight that they did over 1500 years ago.	2004-01-07
US	42173554	R2IFPKX1RYV3FE	0684859793	531000691	Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One of the great major works on the Civil War	This is one of the great works on the Civil War, and certainly the best book about the Army of Northern Virginia available.  Abridged here in one volume, this work is more of a collective biography than anything.  In fact, in could be called a biography of the army, as the focus of the book is not only on the general officers of the army but also on many of the men and lesser officers.  The work is superbly written, with a very engaging narrative style.  This is one of those rare works (especially in history) where you get so engrossed in the narrative you forget you are reading.  After laying out and describing a battle in detail, Freeman proceeds to analyze it, giving special attention to the performance of each of the major players in the fight (from the commanding general down to brigadiers or even colonels) and providing an interpretation as to why each man's performance was so brilliant or so foolish.  He treats other aspects as well, such as the effects of the battle on morale and strategy, as well as the political ramifications of each fight.  Throughout it all, Freeman manages to remain both objective and fair.<br /> Thanks to Freeman's incredible narrative talent, the reader follows the 'life' of this tragic army from its debut at Manassas as an inexperienced but willing group of men, through the evolution to a veteran army and into a hardened and determined fighting body, and the eventual decline of that body until all that remains is a skeletal image of former greatness, a band of hearty and loyal men who surrender at Appomattox because the shedding of their blood will no longer benefit their cause.  You can really feel the emotion and the desperation of the cause as Freeman describes it, and you can see the increasing burden on Lee and his lieutenants as it becomes more and more difficult to replace fallen officers after each major battle.<br /> I have two complaints about this book, both of which detract from its greatness but do not change the fact that it is one of the best Civil War books I've read.  The first is the very poor maps, which are confusing and seldom show the position of the armies involved in the engagement.  The second problem concerns the treatment of the army from Gettysburg on.  Beginning with that battle, most of the army's operations are glazed over very inadequately, with little detail and with but a shade of the former attention to detail.  Treatment of the battles of Gettysburg and Cold Harbor are especially pathetic.  I don't know if this is the fault of Freeman or of Sears (who did the abridgement), but whosever it is, it hurts the flow of the narrative.  If the last two years of the war could have been treated with as much painstaking detail as the first half the war was, this would be a nearly perfect book.	2003-12-29
US	42173554	R20MRUOFYZZR9A	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A look at the causes and effects of the battle of Antietam	In this short book, James McPherson attempts to explain why Antietam (or Sharpsburg, as the South called it) was such a crucial battle.  Far from being just a look at the battle itself, this book explores the causes of the battle, the events leading up to it, and the ramifications of the Union 'victory' achieved after the battle.  The most notable effect of the battle was the Emancipation Proclamation, which Lincoln had been waiting for a victory to issue and which kept Europe out of the war.  McPherson, as always, presents an engaging narrative and some very useful and appropriate commentary, as well as a very helpful interpretation.<BR> The principal drawback of this book, in my opinion, is that so little of it actually focuses on the battle.  In fact, only one chapter is devoted to it, and details are often somewhat sparse.  I see the need to build up to the battle and explain why it was so important, but I would have really liked to see an in-depth look at the battle with McPherson's great analysis to accompany it.  McPherson points out that, though the Union won, the battle was far from being as decisive as it should have been.  I wish the idea that the potential gains of the battle were not realized due to the North's inability to follow up on the victory could have been better developed.<BR> Those who have read McPherson's great work The Battle Cry of Freedom will find that much of this book is similar in nature to that larger volume.  It seems that this book was intended as a brief look at a part of the Civil War, and not as an in-depth study of this particular battle.  In that capacity I think it serves the purpose very well.	2003-12-23
US	42173554	RCPJTSGPT7VWV	0195124995	965727335	For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil War	Books	5	63	66	N	N	What motivated the Civil War soldier?	This book is a very refreshing twist on Civil War history.  In this work, as well as in his book What They Fought For, noted Civil War historian James McPherson explores what exactly motivated men to fight in the war.  Having done exhaustive research to the tune of diaries and letters from nearly 1,000 soldiers, most of them obscure and average men, McPherson is aptly qualified to perform this work.  He looks at several factors, from group unity to sense of honor to desire for vengeance, in an attempt to understand the average Civil War soldier, and ultimately makes a strong case for the idea that Civil War soldiers were idealistic men who were not ignorant of the issues at stake and who were motivated by an extraordinary desire to fight for their beliefs.  This, McPherson argues, sets them apart from soldiers in other wars.  <BR> <BR>As is always the case with McPherson, this book is very well written and enjoyable to read.  Most of this book is composed of quotes from various soldiers with McPherson's interpretation and narrative interjected only often enough to keep the discussion flowing.  He does a wonderful job of integrating the quotes and making them fit perfectly into what he's trying to say.  McPherson's use of quotations from the men who were actually there is infinitely more effective in proving his point than anything he could say himself, and this is what makes this book so great.  There are hundreds of books out there that will tell you WHAT happened, but this book is one of only a few that will try and explain WHY and HOW things happened.	2003-12-23
US	42173554	R12K24GQL2T1J9	025328029X	97749570	The American Way of War: A History of United States Military Strategy and Policy	Books	4	23	24	N	N	The evolution of the American military	This book is essentially an exploration of the way America has conducted war, from the Revolutionary War to Vietnam.  Weigley attempts to show the development of American military thought, from hit-and-run tactics of the Revolution to global policing and the containment of communism in the mid twentieth-century.  Throughout it all Weigley focuses on key figures--Washington, Grant, a couple of Marshalls and a couple of Mahans, among others--who played important roles in the way the military thought and acted.<BR> Overall, this is a very fascinating study.  Weigley's knowledge of the subject is commendable.  It is a bit unfortunate that about 2/3 of the book is devoted to the twentieth-century, and that there is only a very sparse chapter on the Indian Wars, but it is understandable considering the tremendous expansion of the military in the 1900s.  Sometimes Weigley's writing style is a bit difficult to follow--I found myself rereading sentences quite often--but overall the book is well enough written.  This is a great book not just for military history buffs but for anyone who enjoys history in general.	2003-12-12
US	42173554	R1SP4U9GFLKE7P	0743205839	576682884	John Paul Jones: Sailor, Hero, Father of the American Navy	Books	3	30	31	N	N	The life of an unsung hero of the Revolutionary War	It would not be easy to write a biography on a man such as this.  John Paul Jones did tremendous things for the American cause, and stood by his adopted country's navy even while being repeatedly mistreated and stabbed in the back by the likes of John Hancock, Edward Bancroft, and others.  There is no explanation for Jones's loyalty, except to say that he was in it for glory.  In fact, this seems to have been the motivation behind most of Jones's exploits.  Still, vainglorious as the man was, there is no denying that he made a tremendous contribution to the American Revolution.<br /> Evan Thomas handles his subject well, and seems mostly fair in his treatment of Jones.  Still, he cannot help indulging in what is an all-too-common practice in historical biography these days.  Thomas does not hesitate to throw his own thoughts in and add a little detail which enriches the narrative but not the history.  Describing at times what Jones was feeling, what he wanted to do, how the weather affected him, and other details is stretching it a bit, given there is no way anyone can know these things for sure.  Despite this shortcoming, however, this book is an entertaining read, and certainly worth the time to learn of one of the great unsung heroes of the Revolutionary War.  It is nothing short of tragic that Jones was driven by an ungrateful America into service with the cruel Catherine the Great.  This issue, along with many others, is treated in Thomas's book.	2003-12-12
US	42173554	R1X88126JAV50L	0061031011	634723262	Have A Nice Day: A Tale of Blood and Sweatsocks	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Hard work, determination, and a bunch of &quot;bumps&quot;	When I first picked this book up, I thought &quot;there is no way I'm going to read a book this long about a professional wrestler.&quot;  I began reading, however, and once started I couldn't stop.  This is the story of Mick Foley, better known at various stages of his career as Cactus Jack, Dude Love, and Mankind.  Foley wrote the book himself, and did a spectacular job.  In fact he writes much batter than most of the &quot;ghostwriters&quot; who pen celebrity autobiographies today.  Foley has a style, in which he tells a well-crafted and compelling narrative while cracking jokes that one can't help but laugh at.  This is, literally, a tale of blood, but for some reason it's a funny tale.<BR> <BR>Behind all the glitz and glory of professional wrestling comes the sport's most unlikely hero: Mick Foley.  With a less-than-stellar physique, Foley sometimes didn't have the visual appeal of other would-be wrestlers, and consequently had to work many times as hard for what he achieved.  This book follows Foley during his fourteen year (I believe) career as Cactus Jack, from wrestling in small high schools to touring Africa to tangling himself in barbed-wire in Japan and earning the title &quot;King of the Deathmatch.&quot;  It also covers his stint as Dude Love in the WWE, and his most recent character, Mankind.  Through it all Foley gave it his best, not being afraid to bleed even when only a few fans would see him.  Foley was bruised, battered, beaten, cut open, torn up, blown up and otherwise abused during his climb to the top of the WCW, IWA, ECW, and WWE (which eventually happened in late 1998, when Foley won the world championship belt), but he gave it all for the sport he loved.  Foley is an unlikely hero, but is nevertheless a good example of what hard work and determination can get you in life.  After reading this book I'm compelled to agree with the masses: Foley is good.	2003-12-07
US	42173554	RSEDYT1INJXX5	0743477200	482833151	The Stone Cold Truth (WWE)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Well worth the read	This is the story of the great wrestling superstar, Steve Austin, as told in his own words.  Or, at least, its supposedly in his own words, though I'm sure some ghostwriting to one extent or another takes place in the book.  Still, you can often hear Austin's voice as he describes his adolescence, his introduction into wrestling, and his gradually pounding the crap out of anyone in his way as he worked his way to the top of wrestling's top organization, the WWE.  Personal comments on Austin's early days, his stints in the WCW and ECW, and first impressions as the Ringmaster in WWE are interesting, though much of the later WWE stuff is obviously a little reserved, as Austin, still with the WWE, cannot say too much.<BR> <BR>The book is not well-written, though that is in no way Austin's fault.  In fact, the poor sentence structure and choppy transitions seem to be almost appropriate at times, though being better written would certainly not hurt the readability of the book by any means.  Still, it was an interesting and enjoyable read, even after shelling out twenty-six bucks to buy it when I \\"ran into\\" Austin signing these things at the mall.  Austin is a great guy, and his story is certainly worth hearing.  It takes only a few hours to read this book, and the experience is, overall, well worth it.	2003-12-04
US	42173554	R148KW5KTB8Z4W	0822517310	824937847	When This Cruel War Is over: The Civil War Home Front (People's History)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A decent introduction of the Civil War for younger readers	This short book about the Civil War, intended for junior high to high school-level readers, is a brief summary, not only of what happened during the war, but also many of the causes of it and subsequent effects after the war was over.  It is beautifully organized and laid out, and comes complete with several photographs which bring a vivid reality to the events described.  All in all, the account it gives is decent, though heavily tainted by bias.  Damon spends a lot of time talking about slavery, and presents all the atrocities of slavery (using Harriet Beecher Stowe, Booker T. Washington, and Frederick Douglass as ammunition) without clarifying the fact that not all slaves were constantly beaten, cruelly violated, and mistreated in every way.  Instead of focusing so much on the barbarities of slavery, I would have liked to see some objectivity.  Slavery was a cruel practice, and you can impress that upon the mind of a teenager without taking the most extreme examples of inhumanity and treating them as the norm.<BR> <BR>Don't let this minor problem turn you off from this book, however. Again, this is a nice, brief introduction to the war, and worthy at least of a casual perusal.	2003-12-04
US	42173554	R198K182UID9SA	080324746X	789548492	I Fought With Custer: The Story of Sergeant Windolph, Last Survivor of the Battle of the Little Big Horn	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A valuable account of the Custer tragedy	It is difficult to really rate a work like this.  This is the story of Charles Windolph, the last survivor of the Battle of the Little Bighorn, in his own, simple words.  Windolph told his story to a father and son historian team in the 1930s and 40s.  Windolph's distinction as last survivor is a bit misleading--he was the last man who was present at the battle to die, but his title as last survivor does not mean he was with Custer's column of troops.  He wasn't.  In fact, he was under Benteen, and was one of many who survived the battle because they weren't as heavily engaged in it as Custer.<BR> Windolph presents an interesting perspective on the battle, and seems relatively objective.  He does tend to romanticize a little, but for the most part he refrains from throwing blame on Custer, Reno, Benteen, or anyone else (though he does state up front that he is partial to Benteen).  His story is not all that unique when compared to other primary accounts of the battle, but it is nevertheless valuable as the testimony of a survivor of that horrible tragedy.<BR> Included with Windolph's narrative are a number of primary documents, cobbled together in chapters and laced throughout with author's commentary.  This is all right, but it would have been better to present these documents in their entirety, with only enough commentary (perhaps in the form of footnotes) to give the reader an idea of the background surrounding the documents.  Still, the Hunts have done a relatively good job of remaining objective as well, something that is rare in a Custer historian.  This is perhaps not the best account of the Battle of the Little Bighorn, but it is nevertheless an important one.	2003-11-29
US	42173554	R1II6ILU4KU0X7	0300033605	222044613	Chivalry	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A great definition of chivalry	When most of us think of chivalry, an image of an errant knight off to rescue a damsel in distress is usually the first thing that comes to mind.  This is a romanticized image, of course, and, though not wholly inaccurate, does represent at least a part of the concept of chivalry.  But there is so much more to it.  In essence (according to Keen), chivalry was an entire value system that governed the lives of  the whole noble class in medieval Europe.  It focused around three main facets of life: war, noble standing, and religion.<br /> Keen does a wonderful job in this book of analyzing chivalry based on first-hand accounts--poems, literature, and chivalric handbooks from the high and late Middle Ages.  His explanation of chivalry is detailed and thorough, and presents a number of arguments that most people would not consider when thinking about the chivalric code.  The most obvious elements are treated--the tournament, the crusades, heraldry, etc--and many not so obvious subjects are given attention as well.<br /><br />Overall, this book is pretty well-written.  It serves as a very valuable resource for any student of the Middle Ages, or as a good introduction to the practice of chivalry to the casual student.	2003-11-14
US	42173554	R2ADSBZ0UUMXHT	0306804875	778251339	Personal Memoirs Of P. H. Sheridan	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The life of a great Union general, in his own words	The two-volume memoirs of General Philip Sheridan have been condensed in this edition to one paperback volume, thus making more accessible.  Let me state up front that I'm giving this product four stars because of the edition.  There is an introduction by Jeffry Wert, and that appears to be the extent of the work done in preparation for this volume's release.  There are numerous spelling and mechanical errors (I'm not sure if these were Sheridan's or just the result of careless editing), and they are frequent enough to get really annoying really fast.  ''m not talking about pre-standardized type spelling errors, or awkward, run-on nineteenth century sentences.  No, these are just careless mistakes.<BR> <BR>That having been said, this is a great volume of memoirs from one of the Civil War's most accomplished generals.  I do not say great general, because whether or not he was great is still a topic of much controversy.  There is no denying that Sheridan got things done, and that he won several important victories, but there is room for debate in the matter in which he accomplished things, and his treatment of subordinates in doing so.  <BR> <BR>Predictably, Sheridan paints a pretty rosy picture of himself in his memoirs.  Still, to be fair to the man, he DID do an awful lot for the Union cause, and I don't think that his vainglory can be entirely chalked up to shameless self promotion.  The fact is that he was a very key factor in several victories, and to take his part away from the narrative would be to distort the entire picture of what happened.  &quot;Little Phil&quot; was almost always present and often in the fray during his decisive engagements.  On the other hand, I noticed him dressing-down his role in some conflicts, whereas contemporary accounts praise his part to no end.<BR> <BR>The great thing about memoirs is that we hear things straight from the mouths of those who took part in them, and are able to judge for ourselves to what extent their testimony is reliable.  For me, at least, I will always feel that Sheridan's memoirs hold a certain bias, but I will nevertheless continue to hold this volume of personal narrative as valuable.  (Note: this volume covers only to the point of Sheridan returning from Europe.  There's nothing on the little Bighorn or later military activities here).	2003-11-14
US	42173554	R26E31DOJ9OIBB	0803223293	997650278	Phil Sheridan and His Army	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A very valuable work on Phil Sheridan	This book focuses on the United States Army under the control of Phil Sheridan.  Actually, the period covered in this book is primarily when Sherman was the head of the whole army, but Sheridan was the commander of essentially everything west of the Mississippi River.  But little of Sheridan's career during the Civil War is considered, and even less concerning his service in the reconstruction of Louisiana and Texas.  Indeed, this is not even really a strict biography on Sheridan, but rather, literally, a biography of Phil Sheridan and His Army.  In fact, there are times in this work when the focus leaves Sheridan almost completely, and instead concentrates on another important event which took place under his command.  This, however, does not detract from the overall effect of the book, which is to analyze the development of the army under Sheridan's guidance.<br /><br />The book is well written and is far more scholarly and well-researched than many other books on the subject.  This is not a very well known work, but, considering the shortage of biographical information on Sheridan, it is a very important one.	2003-11-05
US	42173554	R1YJXRATF0E3YI	0679743987	138303776	Sheridan: The Life and Wars of General Phil Sheridan	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A great story--a passable history	As a story, this book is one of the better written biographies I've read in a while.  Morris's style is compelling, and his writing flows in such a way that it is difficult to lose interest in the narrative.  As a biography, however, this book is mediocre.  The work is well-documented, but the chief problem I see is that the greater part of Morris's quotes and ideas come from secondary sources,  making this book, in some respects, a tertiary source.  In searching the notes for the source of several quotes made, I was frustrated to find that the only reference given was to another biography of Sheridan.  Morris tells the story beautifully, but there seems not to be much which is groundbreaking or revolutionary.    <BR> <BR>Another flaw in the book, which occupies a disproportionately large amount of space, is the excessive attention it pays to General Rosencrans in the Tennessee era of Sheridan's Civil War career.  During this time, Sheridan seems to be left in the background, and the resultant feeling almost left me with the impression that I was reading a biography of Rosencrans rather than of Sheridan.  It seems that Morris has an ax to grind, and that ax is to glorify Rosencrans to the fullest extent.  He claims that there were three major achievements around the 4th of July 1863: Gettysburg, Vicksburg, and Rosencrans's driving of the Rebels out of Tennessee.   While it is true that he did indeed command the force opposing the Rebels, the sad truth is that Lincoln and Co. wanted this to happen nearly six months before it did.  I have no problem with Morris's high opinion of Rosencrans (though I do not share it myself), but I don't think a biography of Sheridan is the place to extol the virtues of that man.<BR> <BR>Overall, this is a good study of a great man.  It is thoroughly well-written, and a joy to read.  At times, it is even funny, and Morris's dry wit (such as recounting how General AS Johnston &quot;carelessly&quot; bled to death at Shiloh) keeps things entertaining while not straying into the inappropriate.  Also a plus is the detail given to the many aspects of Sheridan's campaigns.  Morris has a talent for painting the whole picture and not just the scant part Sheridan played in it.  Again, this becomes excessive (to me, at least) only when praising Rosencrans.   This book is certainly worth the time it takes to read it.	2003-10-26
US	42173554	R9B3JZ1J98020	0874804485	101956118	The Dominguez Escalante Journal: Their Expedition Through Colorado Utah Arizona and New Mexico in 1776	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The first written account of Utah	In all practical aspects, the Dominguez and Escalante expedition was a failure.  The two Spanish fathers were unable to locate an overland route between the Spanish colonies of Santa Fe, New Mexico and Monterrey, California, and in 1776 it seemed that all the two men had done was wander aimlessly in the north for six months.  The lasting impact these two men have had on history (and particularly Utah's history), however, are far greater than they could have known.  <BR> <BR>The expedition made a map, but it is basically worthless in its inaccuracy.  Still, the description they left of their route, and most notably that of Utah Valley, was later a great resource for subsequent explorers of Utah, especially John C. Fremont.  Their expedition, failed though it was, nevertheless is important as the first written record of the territory that would later become Utah.  In addition, the journal did not outlive its usefulness in 1844, when the second of Fremont's expeditions was completed, or even later when Stansbury, Gunnison, and others surveyed the territory.  This journal is important even today, because it provides us with a natural look at the Native Americans of the area, before they were disturbed and corrupted by hordes of encroaching whites.  This journal is a great document in Utah's history, both as the first written account and as a fascinating look at Utah more than 75 years before it would be settled by the whites.	2003-10-10
US	42173554	ROSAFUTKFDDBC	0517182661	809641949	A Diary From Dixie	Books	5	60	60	N	N	An invaluable insight into the Southern Confederacy	This primary source document is one of the best windows we have into southern society during the American Civil War.  Mary Chestnut was a southern aristocrat, married to the man who was the first to resign his seat in the US Senate before the war.  She knew many prominent Confederate leaders well--Jefferson Davis, John Bell Hood, and Wade Hampton among them--and was acquainted with nearly all of the major players in the war (she even spent several occasions in the company of Robert E. Lee and Joseph Johnston).  Because she knew so many people, she was in a position to cast a very revealing light on the war from the southern point of view.  <BR> <BR>Besides knowing so many influential leaders, Mary Chestnut also lived in both Confederate capitals--Montgomery, Alabama and Richmond, Virginia--while they were the government seats.  Her husband's plantation was in South Carolina, and in fact her home in Columbia, South Carolina lay right in the path of Sherman's destructive march through the South.  As such, Chestnut is poised to offer very interesting commentary on the fire that burned much of that city.  Mary and her husband gave their all to the Confederacy, and lost much of what they had because of the Civil War.<BR> <BR>Several things in this journal are unique and worthy of mention.  First, Chestnut and her friends are living the high life for much of the war, having parties, dinners, and luncheons and more-or-less living it up, even when the Yankees are approaching Richmond.  They live comfortable lives, and, though Mary has a very insightful perspective into the suffering of her soldiers, she often spends as much time complaining about some minor inconvenience (such as being without her maid for a week) as she does deploring the sorry state of the starved and ill-clothed soldiers.  Mary does what she can, and helps in many ways, but she is not willing to give up her parties, even when her husband repeatedly begs her too.  <BR> <BR>This diary also provides a unique view of slavery.  A staunch abolitionist, Chestnut hated slavery less for the cruel treatment of the slaves than for the insolent behavior of many of them.  Her husband's slaves were well taken care of, and did less work than they consumed in goods.  Mary recounts many horrific tales of what happened when the slaves were set free--a story of a white family going along a road and picking up a wagonload of Negro infants which had been abandoned by parents enjoying their freedom, for example.  She never questions that slavery is wrong, but she does argue that Harriet Beecher Stowe's account of slavery was the exception, not the rule.  This is an interesting perspective, whatever the truth of it.<BR> <BR>All in all, this is a great diary, and a splendid resource.  Thank goodness this book has been reissued.  The edition edited by Ben Ames Williams contained unsatisfactory notes, including some in which Williams shamelessly engaged in self-promotion of his novel.  This book is indispensable for anyone looking for primary accounts of the human aspect of the war between the states.	2003-10-03
US	42173554	R2KWY9JWJ3IYKS	0486278042	841295270	Antigone (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How far should loyalty to the state go?	The moral of this play is simple.  The question: is man (or in this case, woman) justified in breaking the laws of the state, supposing those laws are contrary to the higher system of laws the man (or woman) obeys?  For example, should a man break a temporal law if it compromises his religious or moral beliefs?  In this play, Sophocles addresses this issue, though he doesn't necessarily resolve it.  <br />The dilemma is posed in the form of Antigone, the daughter of the late Oedipus.  Her brother, Polyneices, rebelled against the state, and was killed while attacking his homeland.  Because of this treachery, Creon, the new king, declares that Polyneices will not have a proper burial, but will instead be left exposed to rot.  Antigone decides that her first loyalty is familial, and provides her brother with a crude burial.  As a result, she is condemned to death.  <br />This is a very difficult question, one which has been debated even until today. For example, Thomas Paine touched on it in Common Sense, and Thoreau focused on it in his famous essay &quot;Civil Disobedience,&quot; which in turn influenced Gandhi, Martin Luther King, and others.  Clearly this is a question which has perplexed the ages, and this is one reason why this play is still so important today.  <br />This issue will continue to exist, and so will this remarkable play produced by one of the greatest playwrights in history.	2003-10-03
US	42173554	RJRPI4VNSIA75	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A classic treatise on the mythological hero	Joseph Campbell was undoubtedly one of the most influential mythologists of the twentieth century.  This, his crowning achievement, celebrates the nature of myth, and in particular the nature of the mythological hero.  Drawing from sources all over the globe, from primitive stories to complex pantheistic mythologies, and including many religions still extant today, such as Christianity and Buddhism, Campbell explains the archetypal elements of the hero myth, the different forms of the heroic quest, and the purpose of the hero's life work.<BR> <BR>Campbell's work is important because of its attempt to resurrect myth--in other words, to restore its credibility in a technological society where science rules all--and to show the important function which myth can play, even in a society as complex as ours.  He argues that \\"whenever the poetry of myth is interpreted as biography, history, or science, it is killed\\" (in Chapter IV of part one, \\"the keys\\").  In other words, myth should not be viewed literally, but rather allegorically for the lesson it can teach.  Furthermore, Campbell argues that truth manifests itself in many different forms, ranging from a simple fairy-tale to a complex Egyptian ritual.  For Campbell, the purpose of myth is to rise above the limits set by science and reasoning, and to provide mankind with a metaphysical form of fulfillment not attainable through modern technology.<BR> <BR>Campbell's analysis of the various parts of the hero myth is very enlightening.  There are shortcomings, of course (as there necessarily must be), and the archetypes he defines are not universal in nature.  Still, he does a remarkable job of showing how myths from all parts of the globe often create essentially the same hero, albeit in different forms and with different attributes dependent on local customs.  My only complaint with this book is that I believe Campbell takes the parallels of psychoanalysis and myth too far, especially in Part One of the book.  His argument is made good by the many examples of similar myths from distinct parts of the globe, and the use of modern dreams as examples does only little to strengthen this hypothesis.  <BR> <BR>I believe this work is a necessary part of any study of mythology.  It may be dated, true, but that does not entirely discredit it as a strong analysis of the universal hero.  I certainly do not regard this work as authoritative on the subject of myth, but I do think Campbell's argument is one worth considering.	2003-09-22
US	42173554	R2D635A1S0RA4B	0940450658	272357373	Memoirs of General W.T. Sherman (Library of America)	Books	5	91	94	N	N	One of the most interesting characters of the Civil War	After the Civil War, there were many public misunderstandings and misrepresentations about General William T. Sherman.  Secretary of War Stanton had caused to be published certain opinions of his that Sherman had messed things up, and many supporters of General Grant gave him all the credit for Sherman's famous march to the sea and Atlanta campaign (which was entirely Sherman's idea).  Partly to dispel popular misconceptions about him, and partly to provide future historians with a great primary resource (which intention he states in the opening pages of this work), General Sherman decided to undertake the writing of his memoirs, and this is the result.  <BR> <BR>The historical value of these memoirs is enormous.  Sherman contributed a great deal to the war, and was partially responsible for the war ending when it did.  He conducted one of the most brilliant military campaigns in modern history (actually, they were three campaigns--Atlanta, Savannah, and the Carolinas) and accomplished what many considered to be the impossible.  His policy of total war, applied in the South, was utilized by Sheridan in the Shenandoah, and was later slightly modified to be used against the Indians.  Thanks to his memoirs, we have a step-by-step account of how this policy developed.<BR> <BR>Sherman's work is engaging and very to the point.  He is meticulous almost to a fault in his quest for accuracy and detail.  His writing is very, very good, and easy to read.  Also, Sherman truly (I believe) endeavored to be completely objective in his evaluations, and accomplished this end better even than most modern historians.  He is quick to give praise and slow to censure, but is not afraid to record the failures of his subordinates when necessary.  He sometimes points out things they could have done better, but is never overly critical of them.  He even admits that he made mistakes sometimes.  In fact, I believe this is one of the most objective and fair autobiographies I have ever read.  Sherman had much reason to dislike many people, but never, in reading this work, did I find a single instance of him trying to debunk the character of any man.  Even Stanton, the man who falsely represented Sherman's actions, receives fair treatment at the general's hands.<BR> <BR>William T. Sherman is a very colorful figure in Civil War history.  He may well be one of the most complex and intriguing individuals of the war.  To some, he is a barbarian; to others, a deliverer.  He is immensely quotable, and was very opinionated and outspoken. If you're contemplating studying the Civil War, do not be put off by this book's length.  Far from being a dry account of a man's recollections, this is a very engaging and very worthwhile autobiography, and any student of the war will profit by reading it.	2003-09-17
US	42173554	R3ALBJRK5O7RCQ	0385476345	900155127	What They Fought For 1861-1865 (Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History, Louisia)	Books	4	29	32	N	N	What made a Civil War soldier fight?	This is a different kind of book about the Civil War.  Instead of  discussing all the &quot;official&quot; reasons for the war--in other words, instead of examining why Lincoln and Davis said the war was being fought--and instead of looking at the causes of the war from a philosopher's or idealist's point of view, James McPherson examines what really made men fight.  After reading thousands of letters and scores of diaries of simple soldiers, McPherson attempts to explain why the men who participated in the actual combat of the war were there.<br /><br />His process is simple.  He looks at a group of Confederate soldiers (just under 400) and another of Union soldiers (a little over 500) and tries to discover what made them tick.  In the book (which was originally a series of lectures), he quotes from many of them, and cites such causes as preservation of the Union, abolition of slavery, and individual liberty as reasons for fighting.  Certain classes of soldiers are either over or underrepresented by his study, but McPherson makes allowances for these, and attempts to hypothesize what his data mean on a larger scale.<br /><br />The Result?  Basically, McPherson's study is a refutation of the recent scholarly belief that the common man fights in war more in a spirit of comradery than for any other ideal.  In other words, men become dependent on each other, and fight to save their own skin and that of their buddies.  While this may have been true for the world wars and other conflicts, McPherson alleges it was not the case for the Civil War.  And he makes his case pretty well.  From his sample, it appears that a great deal of Civil War combatants were actually fighting for something, and believed in the cause for which they struggled.  For this reason, this book is essential to any study of the war.  McPherson has broken new ground with this study and helped us to better understand the human side of the Civil War.	2003-09-12
US	42173554	R1APGD1JY5ADCJ	0609610236	736759075	Hallowed Ground: A Walk at Gettysburg (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great travel writing, great history	James McPherson is certainly one of the best, if not the best, contemporary Civil War historians.  This book is far from a scholarly work, however, and is rather a mixture of travel writing and history lesson.  This Princeton professor writes this book as if he were giving a tour of the battlefield, and reading this short work is something like sitting in on one of his lectures.  It is personable, intimate, and emotionally charged, and through McPherson's commentary on the battlefield, along with reminiscences of his visits to Gettysburg, it is possible to see what drives this man to do the work that he does.  <br /> As travel writing, this is a great book, full of vivid descriptions of the site and packed with historical observations, anecdotes, and information on how the site has changed through the years.  More valuable than that, however, is the history lesson McPherson gives.  I have studied the Civil War to some extent, and am fairly familiar with the battle of Gettysburg, yet I found many things in this book of which I had never heard.  McPherson dispels several popular myths of the place, and tells a number of stories, both of great generals and lowly privates, which enrich the overall experience.<br /> I have always wanted to visit Gettysburg.  The remarkable event that took place there is worth my time to visit.  But this book has significantly heightened my appreciation of the area, and of the tremendous sacrifice made there by men on both sides, and now I will make a walk at Gettysburg one of my top travel priorities.	2003-09-08
US	42173554	RHWXCQ5CALH7S	0743241428	400172772	Kaplan GRE Exam 2004 with CD-ROM (Kaplan GRE Premier Program (W/CD))	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Great preparation for the GRE	Kaplan's guide to preparing for the GRE contains all of the necessary elements to aid you in your quest to be better prepared for this standardized test.  The book itself is very helpful, but the CD is absolutely indispensable.  Not only does it contain many practice questions, practice tests, and exercises to help you hone your test-taking skills, it also has a feature which lets you personalize a program of study based on your individual needs.  With this great tool, you won't have to spend time studying in areas you're already strong in, and can devote that time to areas you're weak in.  It even allows you to customize your plan based on how much time you have to prepare for the test.  While the booklet itself will also prove to be a useful aid, the CD is worth its weight in gold.<br />Two minor problems with this guide.  A frequent complaint about Kaplan's guides is that they contain too much corny humor.  The humor and cartoons in the book and CD are childish and unamusing, and become downright annoying after a while.  Also, the software, while very good in content, is not very well made.  Sometimes, it won't run on my computer.  Other times, it just locks up.<br />Despite these shortcomings, this is an excellent resource for GRE preparation.  It helped me immensely.  At an affordable price, everything you need is right here.	2003-09-03
US	42173554	R2THBTHW4341Z9	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	American political thought at its best	The effect of Paine's monumental work Common Sense on the spirit of the American Revolution can never be measured.  This work, originally a pamphlet, inspired and gave courage to the cause of independence, and presented the case for separation from Britain in such a way that it was difficult not to see his point.  Paine was a visionary because he recognized that a union between Britain and America could never continue, and that reconciliation (after the conflicts in Boston and other places) would never be possible.  This book was read and admired by Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and many other founding fathers, and its precepts did not go unnoticed by these great men.<br /> Today, Paine's thinking is still relevant.  His basic thesis that there is a difference between society and government still rings true today.  As Paine points out, a society enriches our virtues, but government must restrain our vices.  Paine's theory (at the beginning of the work) on the necessity of government, and his idea that the government is best which protects its people at the least possible cost to personal liberty, is just as interesting and inspiring today as it was 225 years ago.  This pamphlet is applicable today as well as then because Paine believed that men should be good, and that this was the ultimate principal of successful government.  \\"Of more worth is one honest man to society,\\" he says, \\"and in the sight of God, than all the crowned ruffians that ever lived.\\"  The world would be a better place if we all had a little Common Sense.	2003-08-30
US	42173554	R3VQU7ZP8L2WO3	0486275639	397623101	Civil Disobedience and Other Essays (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The moral obligation to resist	Henry David Thoreau did not just think, he acted.  In order to see which luxuries of life he could live without, he lived in a secluded area for two years near Walden pond.  Instead of paying a poll tax he thought unjust, he spent a night in jail.  Thoreau backed his thoughts with action, and this gives validity to many of his writings. <br />Perhaps no work of Thoreau has been more influential than his essay &quot;Civil Disobedience.&quot;  Many world leaders, including Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr., drew inspiration from this classic treatise on passive, nonviolent resistance.  Simply put, Thoreau did not believe in allowing government to take more of his personal liberty than he, Thoreau, was willing to surrender.  He also believed that, as citizens under a government, people have the moral obligation to break any law they think unjust (provided it does not injure another).  This is the basic premise of &quot;Civil Disobedience,&quot; that &quot;I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.&quot;<br />All of the essays in this collection are important, but none has the tremendous power of &quot;Civil Disobedience,&quot; one of the classics in American thought.	2003-08-30
US	42173554	R2NCRDIMED23E9	0140437649	620361333	The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	87	90	N	N	A monumental work in the field of history	This work has often been called, and rightly I believe, the most significant historical text ever written in the English language.  Even in abridged form this work is spectacular, but as a whole this treatise on the fall of Rome is nothing short of monumental.  In fact, the whole work covers a period of history not only concerning the fall of the Roman Empire, but also some ten centuries after the barbarian invasion of Rome, encompassing not only the events which led to the ruin of the empire but also every significant occurrence concerning the land, people, or allies of the fallen kingdom.  Gibbon easily could have ended his history with the fall of the western empire, but instead he chose to continue a work to which he dedicated a great portion of his life, and for which the world will be forever in his debt.<br /><br />Because the work spans such a large portion of civilized European history, it is fairly easy to abridge.  The most important information concerning the decline of the center of civilization can be condensed into one rather large volume, and the rest (concerning Huns, Saracens, and the like) can be summed up in a matter of pages.<br /> The abridgement is concise in many ways, yet severely wanting in others.  As is always the case with an abridgement of a great work, much that is valuable has been spliced and omitted.  Despite the problems with this abridgement, however, this work is a great joy to read.  More importantly, it is packed with pertinent information about the fall of the Roman empire.  If one of the ultimate goals of history is to learn from the past, there is much we can learn from Gibbon's work.	2003-08-28
US	42173554	R186M8B784D4XL	0140436081	287549406	A Tramp Abroad (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Great travel writing, though not Twain's best	In this book, the master satirist and illustrious travel writer Mark Twain embarks on a walking tour through Europe.  This is done Twain style, of course, so anyone familiar with the author's travel writings will not be surprised that most of his `walking tour' is actually accomplished by coach, train, or vicariously through an agent.  As is usual for his travel writings, Twain's descriptions are vivid and detailed, and his accounts of certain sites are simply marvelous.  In fact, in my opinion, the only thing not up to Twain's standards in this book is the humor.<br /> Don't get me wrong, this book is funny.  His account of his mountaineering expedition, together with a staff of almost 150 people, is hilarious, as are many of his anecdotes (which, incidentally, are randomly inserted).  Still, this book is not nearly as amusing as \\"The Innocents Abroad\\" or &quot;Roughing It&quot;--but that should not come as a surprise.  Most of Twain's best work came early in his career, before his pessimism took over and before he was deprived of his entire family through death.  This work fits somewhere in the middle of Twain's career, before he completely burned out but after he had already lost a bit of his incredible zest for life and capacity for humor.<br /> All in all, this is an excellent book by one of the greatest writers the North American continent has ever produced.	2003-08-22
US	42173554	R2X4K2TVI3CIPD	0140449159	604725626	The Prince (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not as men SHOULD act, but as they DO act	Machiavelli's immortal treatise on monarchical government, while not necessarily applicable in the strictest of senses today, nevertheless contains many valuable insights pertinent to the modern leader.  Machiavelli has gotten a bad rap, and not all of it undeserved, but his work nevertheless contains some extremely valuable information.  The likes of Hitler, Napoleon, and Mussolini have counted themselves among Machiavelli's disciples, and the term \\"Machiavellian\\" often is synonymous with deceit and evil.<br /> So what is the use of Machiavelli today?  After all, the book was written over 400 years ago, in the age of feudalism.  Despite its age, Machiavelli's advice is very useful today.  One of his best qualities is that he sees people for what they are, not what they should be.  Where other philosophers concern themselves with how men should act (in an ideal situation), Machiavelli realizes that, in reality, men will not act as they should, and so his focus is on how men actually do act.  If he has an overall pessimistic view of mankind, he is not entirely unjustified.  <br /> Of course, not all of Machiavelli's ideas are acceptable in today's world.  Machiavelli asserts that the populous is weak, stupid, and easily contented.  And though he believes popular support to be extremely important, he believes so only because this condition adds to the power of the monarchy.  In today's world of democracy, this doesn't really fit.  And his admonitions that the prince use hypocrisy and deceit whenever convenient are a bit hard to swallow.  Still, if you REALLY understand what he's saying, it becomes clear that Machiavelli, while condoning these and other vices, says such unlawful practices should be indulged in ONLY when it will benefit the state.  In his eyes, the end should justify the means.<br /> In short, Machiavelli's work is a masterpiece of human thinking.  We still have much to learn from this old thinker, and do ourselves a great disservice by dismissing his ideas as evil (in fact, his condoning of deceit is exaggerated to some extent).  Machiavelli's methods are certainly dated and cruel in many respects, but many of his basic thoughts are very useful in today's world.	2003-08-14
US	42173554	R1R10W98OECEX7	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	3	13	24	N	N	Fun, but the standard of comparison is skewed and biased	In this book, Michael Hart, a scientist by trade, presents HIS opinion of the 100 most important people in history (almost half of whom, not surprisingly, were scientists).  Not an easy task, by any means, and one which is sure to draw criticism from every side.  The book itself is not incredibly well-written, and some of the biographies are meager and inadequate.  Sometimes Hart begins rambling about something (such as Shakespeare's real identity or Gorbachev's reforms), and the result is an unusually large section devoted to that particular subject.<BR> <BR>I agree with some of Hart's findings.  That, however, is not the point.  I strongly disagree with his standard of comparison.  His argument is that \\"scientific advances have done far more to shape the world we live in\\" than have political or military events.  That's why you'll find men such as William Morton (who developed anesthesia) over 50 places higher than Elizabeth I or Cyrus the Great, and over 30 places higher than Julius Caesar or William the Conqueror.  In fact, you'll also find several important political leaders (Abraham Lincoln and Henry VIII among them) absent from the list in favor of the man who invented the contraceptive pill.  <BR> <BR>If Hart underestimates the politicians, he completely scorns the world of art and literature.  Two literary figures (Shakespeare at #31 and Homer at an unflattering #98), an artist (Michaelangelo at #50), and two composers (Beethoven and Bach at #s 45 and 72, respectively) are all that grace this list, and men like Dante, Virgil, Leonardo da Vinci, Rembrandt, and Mozart go either entirely unnoticed or appear on a lengthy list at the end of the book of people Hart rejected.  5 people out of 100 seems a gross under representation of the entire world of art to me, but Hart has his reasons.  \\"In general,\\" he says in Shakespeare's biography, \\"literary and artistic figures have had comparatively little influence on human history.\\"  As if deliberately adding insult toinjury, he says that the vast majority of people encounter such artistic greats as Shakespeare only when forced to read or study them in college!  On another note, he implies that, aside from his work being influential in science, Einstein's theories are widely understood and that ordinary people's lives are profoundly affected by them. <BR> <BR>As a whole, I think the impact of art in history has been grossly underestimated by Hart.  Writing in Greece began to appear about the same time as Homer is supposed to have composed his epics.  Isn't that \\"influential?\\"  Chaucer was the first author to write extensively in middle English.  Considering everything written in English today, wasn't that \\"influential?\\"  Besides the literary and artistic bias, don't expect to find such figures as Socrates and Benjamin Franklin (who wrote a lot and influenced many people, but in a sometimes intangible way) on the list, either.  As much as Hart denies it, I have to argue that art influences many facets of human history, even his beloved science.  <BR> <BR>One of the reasons I bought this book was for what I assumed would be 100 short biographies of great men and women.  Unfortunately, most of the biographies are inadequate, and the bulk of the writing is composed of Hart comparing one figure to another, and using his standards of comparison to estimate their greatness.  This book would be infinitely more useful if more space were devoted to just the pure, biographical fact.<BR> <BR>Overall, then, the book IS somewhat entertaining, and some of the choices are fun to think about.  Still, I don't know if it's worth reading the entire book.  Probably the best approach would be to look at the table of contents, see the list, and read a couple of biographies.  Then you can decide if you actually want to invest the necessary time to read this book, and if you want to shell out the money to buy it.	2003-08-12
US	42173554	R25JB4IWMPX3SB	0140440755	435162028	The Song of Roland	Books	4	36	44	N	N	A great epic poem	The great French/Frank epic poem, the Song of Roland, stemmed out of an actual event.  There really was a Roland--he was a nobleman of some kind.  He and his party were ambushed and killed during Charlemagne's lifetime.  But they were not fighting Saracen pagans.  They were actually killed by a party of Basques.  Also, Roland was not a major factor in this battle, but rather merely a participant.  <br /> Somewhere along the line a legend sprang up, and it gradually evolved and developed into what is now this poem.  The poem is entertaining to read, and is a great example of Frank thought and prejudice (in making the villains Saracens).  In fact, the opposing sides in the battle are Christians and Pagans, typical enemies from the period in which this was written.<br /> This poem is epic in many respects, and is also tragic.  Certainly Roland's flaw is his excessive overconfidence and pride (hubris), which prevent him from blowing his horn and petitioning aid for himself and his army.  The battle sequences, which are very graphic, are reminiscent of The Iliad and the Aeneid, though this work does not measure up to either in greatness or epic grandeur.  I have given the poem four stars in relation to similar works (such as The Iliad, the Aeneid, and the Odyssey).  The poem is well-written and is an enjoyable read, but the poet was by no means as talented as the likes of Homer, Virgil, Dante, Milton, or the Beowulf poet.  Still, this is one of history's great epic poems, and should be treated as such.  Study of this poem is essential for anyone interested in the epic as a form of poetry.	2003-08-12
US	42173554	RWSRRG7OS5UNB	0486219631	35534462	The Rape of the Lock	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The ultimate &quot;mock epic&quot;	This poem serves two purposes.  First, Pope wrote it in response to an upper-class quarrel over an event at a party in which a young girl had her hair cut.  The incident itself was petty and stupid, but the families of the parties involved were taking it very seriously.  Pope, then, wrote this poem in epic form (the most grand of poetic forms) to show the absurdity of the matter, and thus reconcile the offender and offended.<br />That is the first function of this poem.  Even though the incident is long forgotten, the poem is still very funny.  But there is a greater purpose to this poem--it was written like an epic.  It contains several epic elements--an epic battle (at the card game), the invocation of muses and gods, the epic quest (to cut the hair), and several literary devices, such as epic-length similes and catalogs.  This is what makes this poem so great, and what serves as a testimony to Pope's remarkable genius for wit and satire.<br />Pope was, in my opinion, one of the greatest English poets, certainly the greatest satirist.  This is one of his greatest works, and it is short enough to read over and over again without investing too much time.	2003-08-06
US	42173554	R1Y3AVH1LOOROZ	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	2	10	36	N	N	Too much slander for my taste	Don't get me wrong, I'm as eager to have all the scandalous dealings of \\"president\\" Clinton in book form as the next guy.  And I'm certainly all for having a man who dealt closely with Clinton being the one to write it.  Men of that character, who act the way he did in such a sacred office as President of the United States, should be exposed.  BUT, and this is a big but, it should be done with tact and taste.  There is absolutely no taste in this book.<br /> I read this book thinking it would focus on some of the details of the major blunders Clinton made while in office.  Well, it does that, but it also provides a mountain of scurrilous stories and degradations of the Clintons' character that is nothing short of petty.  The sections on Clinton's actions concerning Saddam, bin Laden, and Bill`s harassment of a woman on Air Force One, for example, were very informative.  But these petty little anecdotes and superficial judgments (like Patterson claiming Clinton was checking out his wife, or quoting some comment Hillary made about the military, for example) were much too much for me to handle.  Let's face it, the man did enough--between sexual misconduct, mismanagement of the military, and poor executive decisions in international and domestic affairs--to write a pretty convincing book in itself.  But there's no need to start digging up every small and inconsequential detail.<br /> To be honest, it is sad for me to see a conservative resorting to such petty, child-like defacing of character.  I admire Lt. Col. Patterson's courage in stating the facts, in getting into the open things which should have been told, but I do think he took it a little too far.  So, I give a low rating not because I have any disagreements with what he says (I agree fully), but simply because I got tired of wading through 130 pages of petty slander to get the 20 pages of real meat in this book.	2003-08-05
US	42173554	RBMUKWHAA4V9X	0060653191	44926715	George MacDonald: An Anthology 365 Readings	Books	4	86	89	N	N	A great introduction to George MacDonald's work	MacDonald was a master Christian apologist of the late 1800s, and an enormous influence on CS Lewis, JRR Tolkien, WH Auden, and Charles Williams, to name a few.  His fantasy novels and sermons have been a source of inspiration for every generation of Christian apologists and fantasy novelists since his death.  MacDonald's writings, however, inspiring though they are, are often laborious and difficult to read.  Additionally, much of MacDonald's writing phases in and out of print regularly, and is sometimes not easy to find.  It is for these reasons that CS Lewis, who called MacDonald \\"my master,\\" compiled this `anthology' of MacDonald's theology.  <br /> In this little volume are 365 \\"readings,\\" short quotes from MacDonald's sermons, novels, or stories.  Actually, more than 2/3 of this material comes from his sermons.  Several of these quotations are uplifting and thought-provoking, and all bear the mark of a man who devoted his life to Christian apology through fantasy.  An anthology like this is a good place to be introduced to MacDonald's thinking and writing, and also a large step in understanding such later apologists as CS Lewis.  These readings, though sometimes taken slightly out of context, are a great look into the work of George MacDonald.	2003-08-05
US	42173554	R3OE9KKD69MOOY	0048090115	143419015	The Inklings: C.S.Lewis, J.R.R.Tolkien, Charles Williams and Their Friends	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great collective biography of a remarkable group	For years, a small number of Oxford dons and fellows, as well as some of their friends, met in a local pub on Tuesdays to drink beer, hold discussions on such matters as mythology, morality, and literature, and read aloud the things they had been writing.  Perhaps more important than these meetings were the Thursday night gatherings in the rooms of CS Lewis at Magdalen college.  This group, which included such intellectual giants as Lewis, JRR Tolkien, and Charles Williams, was known as \\"The Inklings.\\"<br /> Much of \\"The Hobbit,\\" \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" and Lewis's Space Trilogy were read in these meetings.  Lewis also read much of his apologetic work to the group.  The Inklings have had an enormous effect on the world of fantasy and Christian apology, and this biography by Humphrey Carpenter attempts to examine, in detail, just what occurred at these meetings, and what the effect was on those who participated.<br /> Actually, this book is more of a biography on CS Lewis than on the rest of the members.  Carpenter, who wrote a separate biography on Tolkien, does not elaborate much on the creator of \\"The Lord of the Rings\\", but rather spends most of his time on Lewis, who was, after all, the life of the group.  Despite the focus on Lewis, however, there is a large section devoted to the life and times of Charles Williams, another principal member of the group.  By using Lewis's life as a narrative, Carpenter is able to explore the composition and disposition of the Inklings as a group, as well as discuss their collective impact on the world of literature, fantasy, and criticism.<br /> This biography is well-written, and covers its subject well.  The Inklings were a fascinating group of men, and this book provides much information and detail about the group as a whole that is difficult to glean from a biography which focuses on just one of the members.  Unfortunately, this volume is not currently available in the US, and must be obtained either from Amazon.uk or froma used bookseller.  Despite the difficulty in obtaining the book, however, this is a fascinating and worthwhile look at the Inklings.	2003-08-05
US	42173554	R37Y7RX4YHVJ65	0806513500	315215881	The 100: A Ranking Of The Most Influential Persons In History	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Fun, but the standard of comparison is skewed and biased	In this book, Michael Hart, a scientist by trade, presents HIS opinion of the 100 most important people in history (almost half of whom, not surprisingly, were scientists).  Not an easy task, by any means, and one which is sure to draw criticism from every side.  The book itself is not incredibly well-written, and some of the biographies are meager and inadequate.  Sometimes, however, Hart begins rambling about something (such as Shakespeare's real identity or Gorbachev's reforms), and the result is an unusually large section devoted on that particular subject.<br /> I agree with some of Hart's findings.  Overall, however, I strongly disagree with his standard of comparison.  His argument is that \\"scientific advances have done far more to shape the world we live in\\" than have political or military events.  That's why you'll find men such as William Morton (who developed anesthesia) over 50 places higher than Elizabeth I or Cyrus the Great, and over 30 places higher than Julius Caesar or William the Conqueror.  In fact, you'll also find several important political leaders (Abraham Lincoln and Henry VIII among them) absent from the list in favor of the man who invented the contraceptive pill.  <br /> If Hart underestimates the politicians, he completely scorns the world of art and literature.  Two literary figures (Shakespeare at #31 and Homer at an unflattering #98), an artist (Michaelangelo at #50), and two composers (Beethoven and Bach at #s 45 and 72, respectively) are all that grace this list, and men like Dante, Virgil, Leonardo da Vinci, Rembrandt, and Mozart go either entirely unnoticed or appear on a lengthy list at the end of the book of people Hart rejected.  5 people out of 100 seems a gross under representation of the entire world of art to me, but Hart has his reasons.  \\"In general,\\" he says in Shakespeare's biography, \\"literary and artistic figures have had comparatively little influence on human history.\\"  As if deliberately adding insult to injury, hesays that the vast majority of people encounter such artistic greats as Shakespeare only when forced to read or study them in college.  On another note, he implies that, aside from his work being influential in science, Einstein's theories are widely understood and that ordinary people's lives are profoundly affected by them. <br /> As a whole, I think the artistic side of people's lives has been grossly underestimated.  Writing in Greece began to appear about the same time as Homer is supposed to have composed his epics.  Isn't that \\"influential?\\"  Chaucer was the first author to write extensively in middle English.  Considering everything written in English today, wasn't that \\"influential?\\"  Besides the literary and artistic bias, don't expect to find such figures as Socrates and Benjamin Franklin on the list, either.  <br /> One of the reasons I bought this book was for what I assumed would be 100 short biographies of great men and women.  Unfortunately, most of the biographies are short and inadequate, and the bulk of the writing is composed of Hart comparing one figure to another, and using his standards of comparison to estimate their greatness.  This book would be infinitely more useful if more space were devoted to just the pure, biographical fact.<br /> Overall, then, the book IS somewhat entertaining, and some of the choices are fun to think about.  Still, I don't know if it's worth reading the entire book.  Probably the best approach would be to look at the table of contents, see the list, and read a couple of biographies.  Then you can decide if you actually want to invest the necessary time to read this book, and if you want to shell out the money to buy it.	2003-08-05
US	42173554	R3OTVYYFX4ZOG2	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	5	6	N	N	&quot;...It tolls for thee&quot;	This is one of the greatest modernist novels to deal with the subject of war.  Set during the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s, this novel explores war as it really is, not as what it is glorified or vilified to be according to the whims of a journalist or novelist.  There is very little of the actual war in the foreground of the plot--the entire novel spans only about four days--but the relationships of the characters and their interaction with one another allows the reader to see what war is like from the viewpoint of those who participate in it.  Like Crane's The Red Badge of Courage, this book deals with the psychological and human ramifications of war.<br /> The hero is Robert Jordan, an American idealist fighting in Spain on the side of the `Republic,' or Communist, party.  Opposite the `Reds' are the so-called fascists.  At the beginning, Jordan has an unflinching and unwavering duty to the cause, but the people he meets and a girl he falls in love with alter somewhat his outlook.  The bulk of the novel deals with Jordan's own philosophy, but also with the philosophy of the band of guerillas he is assigned to complete a mission with.  Through his love for the girl, Maria, and his interaction with the scheming rebel leader Pablo and his wife Pilar, Jordan learns much about life and war.<br /> The plot moves quickly enough, and all leads up to the final climactic battle at the bridge.  This is perhaps Hemingway's finest moment, and his treatment of the battle and fate of the group is nothing short of masterful.  The quote from John Donne \\"never send to know for whom the bell tolls\\"  looms ominously throughout the novel, and the battle of the bridge and the final, chilling moment of truth for Robert Jordan drives home the harrowing fact that is the reality of war: \\"it tolls for thee.\\"	2003-08-02
US	42173554	RY9UO1LVBZ0WX	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	0	2	N	N	there's always a catch	Catch-22 is a biting satire about the absurdities of war.  Set in World War 2, the novel is about a squadron of bomber crews stationed in Pianosa.  The book follows the exploits of the group, and of one man in particular: a bomber named Yossarian.  Yossarian goes against the grain, and tries valiantly throughout the novel to escape the inevitable Catch-22.  All Yossarian wants to do is survive the war, but that seems impossible in the face of Catch-22.  This novel is about his struggle against the system, his personal quest for survival in the face of a military that sees him only as part of the war effort.  <BR> <BR>Several things--a colonel who's aspiring to be a general and keeps upping the required number of missions, a mess hall attendant who forms his own syndicate and sells supplies to the enemy to gain a profit, a major who disappears inside his trailer--combine to form the military unit to which Yossarian belongs, where \\"what's good for the syndicate is good for the country\\" and where men are endangered and their lives sacrificed for the ambitions of higher-ranking men aspiring to fortune and notoriety.<BR> <BR>This book would be depressing--horribly depressing--were it not so downright funny.  The situations, the way the characters react and interact with each other, are absurd and hilarious.  In fact, the attitudes of most of these men (commanders in particular) are downright ridiculous, and the book is not realistic in terms of the characters personalities (how many generals REALLY believe they can order someone to be shot whenever they want?).  Still, the absurd nature of the book is what gives it such power.  By giving his characters such outrageous ambitions and by creating such ridiculous situations for them, Heller makes his message painfully clear.<BR> <BR>This book is a modernist approach to war.  The narrative is fragmented and roughly pieced together, and the satire is very prominent and in-your-face.  In the end, Yossarian is faced with a choice: submit to the `Catch,' or die trying to escape it.  The irony of it all--submit to the Catch and be a hero (though morally dead) or try to escape it and be physically dead--is what makes Yossarian such a powerful character.  This book is one of the greatest works of the 20th century for a reason--the impression it leaves is very lasting.	2003-07-16
US	42173554	R145I3K0L90MSR	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	2	5	N	N	there's always a catch	Catch-22 is a biting satire about the absurdities of war.  Set in World War 2, the novel is about a squadron of bomber crews stationed in Pianosa.  The book follows the exploits of the group, and of one man in particular: a bomber named Yossarian.  Yossarian goes against the grain, and tries valiantly throughout the novel to escape the inevitable Catch-22.  All Yossarian wants to do is survive the war, but that seems impossible in the face of Catch-22.  This novel is about his struggle against the system, his personal quest for survival in the face of a military that sees him only as part of the war effort.  <BR> <BR>Several things--a colonel who's aspiring to be a general and keeps upping the required number of missions, a mess hall attendant who forms his own syndicate and sells supplies to the enemy to gain a profit, a major who disappears inside his trailer--combine to form the military unit to which Yossarian belongs, where \\"what's good for the syndicate is good for the country\\" and where men are endangered and their lives sacrificed for the ambitions of higher-ranking men aspiring to fortune and notoriety.<BR> <BR>This book would be depressing--horribly depressing--were it not so downright funny.  The situations, the way the characters react and interact with each other, are absurd and hilarious.  In fact, the attitudes of most of these men (commanders in particular) are downright ridiculous, and the book is not realistic in terms of the characters personalities (how many generals REALLY believe they can order someone to be shot whenever they want?).  Still, the absurd nature of the book is what gives it such power.  By giving his characters such outrageous ambitions and by creating such ridiculous situations for them, Heller makes his message painfully clear.<BR> <BR>This book is a modernist approach to war.  The narrative is fragmented and roughly pieced together, and the satire is very prominent and in-your-face.  In the end, Yossarian is faced with a choice: submit to the `Catch,' or die trying to escape it.  The irony of it all--submit to the Catch and be a hero (though morally dead) or try to escape it and be physically dead--is what makes Yossarian such a powerful character.  This book is one of the greatest works of the 20th century for a reason--the impression it leaves is very lasting.	2003-07-16
US	42173554	RUV7CEL05WUMT	0688072526	868609917	Duel of Eagles: The Mexican and U.S. Fight for the Alamo	Books	5	12	20	N	N	An excellent look at the Alamo and the Texas Revolution	This book deals with a very difficult subject--the fight for the Alamo.  Shrouded in myth, conflicting accounts, and uncertain details, the battle for the Alamo in March of 1836 (as well as the earlier battle in which the Texians took control of the fort from General Cos) has long been an enormous challenge for historians, since there is no way to tell for sure where fact ends and where legend begins.  Accounts of the last stand of Crockett, Bowie, and Travis range from suicide to ignominious surrender to heroic last stands with piles of dead Mexicans at their feet, but no one can know with certainty just how these men came to their ends.  Most historians choose one of two routes:  either they recount the myth, making the men savage warriors to the end, or they try to dispel the myth by giving Crockett and Co.  uneventful ends (such as suicide, surrender, or a quick death without much fighting).  <BR> <BR>Jeff Long does neither of these.  This is a book about the Alamo that ignores the whims of historians and mythmakers alike, and truly attempts to understand the Alamo.  More importantly still, the book treats the Alamo not as the apex of the Texas Revolution, but as a single event, one of many, which contributed to the eventual independence of Texas.  Bowie is portrayed as a greedy speculator, Crockett as a failed politician hoping to get political fame by fighting in Texas, and Travis as a vain and glory-seeking individual whose view of reality has been skewed by reading too much Walter Scott.   Houston and Santa Anna are both opium addicts.  And yet, somehow, this book does not destroy the heroic vision of the Alamo and Texas independence, but rather casts it in a more realistic light.<BR> <BR>This book treats the entire revolution of Texas, not just the Alamo.  Much background on Bowie, Crockett, Travis, Fannin, Houston, Santa Anna, and even many Mexican officers is included.  This serves to enrich the account of the Alamo, as well as give a deeper understandingof what the two sides were fighting for.  Long presents the revolution as being, for the most part, unjustified, and does not seem to be biased in one direction or the other.  What is presented is a good, objective account of the \\"duel\\" between the Mexican and Anglo-American eagles.<BR> <BR>The obvious benefit of this book is a good look at the Alamo.  But the rest, most especially the character sketches of the principal players in the revolution, is also invaluable.  The slaughters of the Alamo and the Goliad paint the Mexican army in a bad light, it is true, but the slaughter of Mexicans by Houston's men at San Jacinto (surprisingly) show that the Anglos weren't much better.  What is better, this book reads like a good novel, and as such is great not only for a student of Texas independence, but also as a satisfying read for anyone interested in history.	2003-07-09
US	42173554	R3MQ3RFA3DO1B0	0803292309	574948266	David Crockett: The Man and the Legend	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Objective? yes. Well written?  Absolutely not.	This book, written in the height of the Crockett hysteria in the 1950's, attempts to present an objective view of the real David Crockett.  Most of the book deals with Crockett the senator, not Crockett the backwoodsman or Crockett of the Alamo.  In this, at least, the book is valuable, because it portrays a David Crockett far different from the Davy Crockett of Walt Disney or John Wayne.  <BR> <BR>The book is valuable in this respect, but it is poorly written.  The author skips from one subject to another, making obscure references to events which are never explained and about which the reader is apparently supposed to be familiar.  The argument is not well organized, and bounces around so much it is very difficult to follow, and the narrative is just as fragmentary.  Inappropriate euphemisms and ill-fitting metaphors further clot this work and inhibit the flow of the narrative.  Shackford, who was a professor of English and should have been a more capable writer, makes this account of Crockett's life very, very difficult to read.	2003-07-01
US	42173554	RHF3K9C2PEZNZ	0451524071	985219593	Roughing It (Signet Classics)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Frontier life through the eyes of Americas greatest satirist	There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of travel logs, journals, reports, diaries, etc. that tell about the American West in the mid-nineteenth century.  This book by Mark Twain, however, is both unique and one of the best.  This is travel writing as it should be.  Twain, traveling across the plains from Missouri to Nevada in the early 1860's, and spending seven years loafing about Nevada, California, and Hawaii, collected and compiled his experiences into this extraordinary book.  One of the best things about Twain, of course, is his unique view on things.  This tale is told in Twain's wry, humorous style, and is very enjoyable.<BR> <BR>This book is not quite as pessimistic as Twain's other great travel writing, `The Innocents Abroad,' but it does include some interesting and unorthodox views which often prove hilarious.  Twain spends time as a gold and silver seeker, a speculator, a journalist, and a vagabond (as he himself puts it), and puts a unique spin on each of these occupations.  As far as travel writing goes, this book is indispensable, and it also proves quite valuable (odd as it may seem) in any thorough study of frontier life in the American West.	2003-06-18
US	42173554	RLGPTDF1BA3QG	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A well-told frontier story set in the American West	This is a tale of frontier Nebraska as told through the eyes of an adolescent boy.  The subject of the book, a young Bohemian immigrant girl named Antonia, is meant to symbolize the frontier experience and epitomize the life of many frontiersmen and women.  The story is told by Jim Burden, who grew up in Black Hawk, Nebraska, when the land was wild and untamed.  His neighbor was Antonia Shimerda, four years older than he.  They grew up together, and as Jim tells the story of his friendship and love for Antonia, the whole of the frontier experience is captured within the narrative.<BR> <BR>This is a great American Western novel.  Willa Cather is an excellent writer--easy and enjoyable to read.  Her writing (in this and other books) teems with beautiful and sublime descriptions.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and gave it only four stars simply because the plot seems to move kind of slowly at times.  Despite this minor imperfection, however, My Antonia is a great book that will leave the reader with a deep impression of life on the Western American frontier.	2003-06-12
US	42173554	R18J27978F0HNA	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Some of Lewis's best fiction	CS Lewis, the master Christian apologist, was also a fabulous storyteller, as well as a sort of Classical scholar.  This book is a synthesis of his theology, his love for the classics, and his storytelling ability.  It is a reworking of the Psyche/Cupid myth, spun by Lewis in such a way as to teach important moral values--values which Lewis propagated in his Christian writings, but which he proves (in this book) to be important to all cultures.  One of the most compelling things about this novel is that it is set in a `barbarian' society, with many gods comparable to those of the Greeks.  Even in the midst of this foreign religion, however, Lewis manages to teach his Christian moral values with surprising success.<BR> <BR>In a nutshell, this is a story about too much love.  Orual, Psyche's sister, loves Psyche more than anything.  Her love, however, is a selfish love, and Orual ends up destroying her sister because of that love.  The central message of this book (to me, at least) is that people often treat their love protectively, and that jealousy often prompts people to hurt the one they love in an effort to keep the beloved all to themselves.  The result, in this story and in others, is that someone (like Orual) who claims to love another person (like Psyche) ends up being the person in the world who hurts them the most.  This culminates, in the novel, with Orual using Psyche's love for her as blackmail to get Psyche to destroy her life with the god Cupid.<BR> <BR>Readers familiar with Lewis's `The Screwtape Letters' and `The Great Divorce' will recognize this familiar theme of love gone too far.  As always, Lewis provides insights in this book that are both profitable and that hit close to home for many of us.  This is a great work of fiction by CS Lewis, both for its theological content and for the narrative itself.  I couldn't put it down until I'd finished it, and both enjoyed and profited from the reading.	2003-06-12
US	42173554	R2XBK5BSDCFQIP	0142437085	318922478	The Innocents Abroad (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	As good as travel writing can get	This book, along with Twain's `Roughing It,' is often considered to be some of the best travel narrative ever put to paper.  Certainly it deserves its acclaim.  Twain, the irreverent All-American writer, took a trip halfway around the world in a steamer and visited many of the great sites of Europe and the Middle East.  This is his account of his experiences, and the experiences of the group of `Pilgrims' which accompanied him on this `pleasure excursion.'<BR> <BR>One of the best things about Twain is his refusal to romanticize, even in the cases of the greatest places in the world.  He does not hesitate to verbally abuse Paris, Florence, Damascus, even Jerusalem.  He tells it how it is, refusing to admire the work of the great painters (Raphael, Michael Angelo, and co.) and asserting that everyone who ever wrote of the beauty of the Sea of Galilee was a downright liar.  He has some good things to say, too (he seems to have approved of Athens), but mostly he spends his time dispelling the romantic images of the great places of the world.  The result is hilarious, and certainly makes one realize that, despite the perfect images that Paris, Pisa, and Rome sometimes have in our minds, they are a far cry from paradise.<BR> <BR>Twain's wit, as always, is very sharp, and this book is an excellent example of it.  His antics (and descriptions of them) are very funny, and his way of putting things a joy to read.  Along the way, he pokes fun of the American \\"Pilgrims,\\" who deface the sacred relics they visit and call every guide they have `Ferguson.'  This is certainly a classic in American Literature.  Anyone interested in travel writing will profit greatly from this book, as will anyone who enjoys Twain's humor or just a good laugh.	2003-06-06
US	42173554	R2ZA57JL9UQ40L	0156027666	503386208	Letters to Malcolm: Chiefly on Prayer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An inspiring look at prayer	In his Christian works, CS Lewis tackles many difficult and important subjects--love, miracles, and pain, to name a few.  For each of these topics, and for many others, Lewis uses a very straightforward technique, and explains things how he perceives them to be.  With prayer, however, Lewis takes another approach.  He was constantly writing and saying that he knew nothing on the subject, that he felt himself wholly inadequate to write about the subject.  His solution was to offer his feelings on prayer in the form of informal letters to a friend, thus enabling him to explain his views without appearing to claim any knowledge on the subject.<BR> <BR>For all his feelings of inadequacy, Lewis does a remarkable job with prayer.  Like many of his other books, this short work provides many insights which simplify and explain otherwise difficult subjects.  He speaks not only of how and when we should pray, but also discusses what he considers to be the most elevated form of prayer, and offers his opinion of just what God expects of us when we pray.<BR> <BR>This short book can be understood without a background in Lewis's writings, as his ideas are not really dependent on his earlier theology (this was one of his last works).  This book does lean toward the mystical at times, and can be somewhat difficult to follow, but the insights it provides on prayer are invaluable.  This may not be the best introduction to prayer, but it is definitely worth the time for anyone wanting to benefit from the great Christian apologist's views on communication with God.	2003-06-04
US	42173554	RUZFHKQM12RZ7	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Of Mice and Men	Lennie Small is too strong for his own good.  He is not a very intelligent person (everyone says he's stupid), and understands very little of what goes on around him.  If it weren't for his friend George, who travels with him, Lennie would have a very difficult time functioning in society.  In fact, he has that problem already.  His strength is a danger to him, because sometimes he harms things without understanding what he's doing.  For example, he's always crushing mice to death, and he even does this with a puppy.  Lennie is innocent and would never intentionally harm anyone, but his stupidity and his strength are a very potentially harmful combination.<br /> This book raises an interesting question:  what should be done with people who are dangerous through no fault of their own?  Should people like Lennie, who unintentionally harm other people, be held responsible for what they do?  Lennie is a very difficult case, because he does not deserve to be punished for what he inadvertently does, but he also cannot be left free to cause harm to other people.  This is the central conflict of the novel.<br />Set in depression-era America, this novel by John Steinbeck is well-written and thought-provoking.  The dialogue is fabulous, as is the narrative.  This book is considered to be a classic of 20th-century American literature, and in fact it is a very good read.  I would not give it the rank of classic, perhaps, but it is nevertheless a great (and highly recommended) novel.	2003-06-03
US	42173554	R15PNNUVOJV659	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Is happiness worth the price of individual thought?	When Brave New World was published (in the 1930s), the thought of a totalitarian form of government taking over a large portion of the world (or even the whole world) was not impossible.  Today, of course, that threat seems more distant, but the possibility is still there.  The most horrifying effect of this new, dictatorial civilization is the corruption of art and science.  As Huxley himself points out in his foreword to this edition, his \\"Brave New World\\" is one in which science has been greatly perverted.  Instead of science being used for the convenience of man, man is being molded and shaped according to the progress of science--a terrible possibility.<br /><br />This Brave New World is one in which everyone is happy.  This happiness comes, though, at the expense of both passion and thought.  People are happy because they cannot be passionate--they do not pine over a lost love, do not desire anything they can't have (they have sexually promiscuous relationships indiscriminately, and say \\"everyone belongs to everyone\\"), and do not ever feel sorrow at the death of someone they know.  They are created artificially, and thus have no parents or familial connections.  They never marry.  And even if they DO ever feel depressed or overwhelmed, they can always take soma (a mind-altering drug which does the job of alcohol and narcotics without the side-effects) and take a `holiday' from their troubles.<br /><br />People are `conditioned' to feel and act a certain way from conception.  There is no concept of instinct--every ideal, thought, feeling and belief a person has comes about both because of certain injections they received while fetuses and because of various messages played to them in their sleep when children.  In effect, they are programmed, and feel no pain or sorrow because they are not conditioned to.  This raises an interesting question--are these people really oppressed?  After all, they are happy, they feel none of the sorrows and difficulties that free-thinking people do.  And their lost liberties (thought, feeling, etc) are not missed--in fact, they don't even know they should miss them.  \\"Mother\\" is an obscene word, and so is \\"chastity.\\"<br /><br />The central conflict of this book comes when a \\"savage\\" (from a `savage' reservation in the Southern US where people are allowed to continue with familial and religious beliefs, but not allowed to leave) is brought from the reservation to live in society.  His home on the reservation was dirty, stinky, and full of hate, cruelty, and disease, yet, in the end, he actually prefers this kind of existence to the carefree one he is forced to live.  In effect, he would rather have liberty, and all the pain that comes with it, than ignorant bliss.<br /><br />This is one of the most thought-provoking novels of the twentieth century, and deserves a place next to such books as 1984, Animal Farm, and Slaughterhouse Five.  It is perhaps less-known than these other classics, but it is every bit as good and ingenious a story, and every bit as poignant in its look at society.ng people do.  And their lost liberties (thought, feeling, etc) are not missed--in fact, they don't even know they should miss them.  \\"Mother\\" is an obscene word, and so is \\"chastity.\\"<BR> <BR>The central conflict of this book comes when a \\"savage\\" (from a `savage' reservation in the Southern US where people are allowed to continue with familial and religious beliefs, but not allowed to leave) is brought from the reservation to live in society.  His home on the reservation was dirty, stinky, and full of hate, cruelty, and disease, yet, in the end, he actually prefers this kind of existence to the carefree one he is forced to live.  In effect, he would rather have liberty, and all the pain that comes with it, than ignorant bliss.<BR> <BR>This is one of the most thought-provoking novels of the twentieth century, and deserves a place next to such books as 1984, Animal Farm, and Slaughterhouse Five.  It is perhaps less-known than these other classics, but it is every bit as good and ingenious a story, and every bit as poignant in its look at society.	2003-06-03
US	42173554	R1QB1B92LFUUCK	0006716652	671298565	Voyage of the Dawn Treader (Lions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Odyssey-like adventure in Narnia	This volume of the Chronicles of Narnia finds Edmund, Lucy, and their cousin Eustace back in Narnia again (Peter and Susan are too old now and can never return).  In this story, the children enter Narnia in the midst of the sea, and are taken aboard Prince Caspian's ship The Dawn Treader.  They join Caspian and his crew on an Odyssey-like voyage to the end of the world, encountering many strange people, creatures and places along the way.  <BR> <BR>Christian references in this book are abundant (as they are throughout the series).  The most obvious is the change in Eustace, who goes from being a nasty, self-centered boy at the beginning to a tolerable child by the end.  It is all because of a meeting with Aslan, of course, that this change comes about.  The connection of Aslan with Christ is obvious throughout the series, but becomes even more so in this book, where he appears in the form of a lamb and tells Lucy that, though he is present on Earth, he is known by a different name there.  His statement that the children have come to Narnia with the sole purpose of learning of him (Aslan/Christ) completes the allegory.<BR> <BR>One of the most intriguing things about CS Lewis's fiction is that he believed that Christianity could be taught through fantasy, or \\"fairy stories,\\" as JRR Tolkien called them.  Throughout this series, there are many references to Christianity, and these books truly do fulfill their purpose of entertaining children while teaching them good moral values at the same time.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R179I6ZKDXALTL	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Enter the magical realm of Narnia--you'll never be the same	CS Lewis was a master storyteller, and these seven fine children's books are some of the best young fiction of the twentieth century.  They take place in Narnia, an enchanted world full of talking creatures and magical adventures at every turn.  Follow the adventures of several children as they seek to do good in the land of Narnia, and as they are encouraged by the lion Aslan.  The story of each of these books is enthralling, and the overall world of Narnia is lively and fantastic.  Each of these books is also full of Christian symbolism, from Aslan (a Christ-figure) down to the moral values each of the children learns in this magical land.  In order of publication (different from the chronological order of this set), the books are:<br />THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE.  This is the beginning of all the adventures, in which four children enter Narnia and try to defeat an evil witch.  Here, Aslan makes the ultimate sacrifice for the benefit of another.<br />PRINCE CASPIAN.  Hundreds of years after the first book, the children return to find the land much changed.  Caspian's world (he is the heir to the Narnian throne) is one of skepticism, in which many people refuse to believe in Aslan, or in his powers.  The children must help Caspian reclaim his right to the throne of Narnia.<br />THE VOYAGE OF THE DAWN TREADER. Edmund and Lucy (from the first books) journey with their cousin Eustace to Narnia to travel with Caspian in his quest for the edge of the world.  Here Aslan reveals himself further to the children.  This is an Odyssey-like adventure, and very entertaining.<br />THE SILVER CHAIR.  Eustace, along with Jill, a classmate, journey to Narnia to help find Caspian's kidnapped son.  They encounter many hardships and adventures along the way, and seek the prince with the aid of their friend Puddleglum, a pessimistic creature called a Mud-wiggle.<br />THE HORSE AND HIS BOY.  This book takes place shortly after The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.  Its story has little to do with the overall history of Narnia, but it is a very entertaining side adventure, which enriches the world of Narnia and makes it a more realistic setting for the rest of the novels.  The climax is a crusade-like battle between followers of Aslan and the Calormenes, pagan worshippers of a false deity.<br />THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW.  This book takes place much before The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.  The heroes here are Digory Kirke and Polly Plummer, the first children to visit Narnia.  This book outlines the creation of Narnia, and the 'fall' of that magical realm.<br />THE LAST BATTLE.  The world of Narnia is coming to an end.  A false Aslan is abroad in the land, and the people (and beasts) struggle to follow what they think is the truth.  This is the apocalypse of Narnia, the end of the world.  The Christian references in this one are especially prominent.<br />One of the most intriguing things about CS Lewis's fiction is that he believed that Christianity could be taught through fantasy, or \\"fairy stories,\\" as JRR Tolkien called them.  Throughout this series, there are many references to Christianity, and these books truly do fulfill their purpose of entertaining children while teaching them good moral values at the same time.  This is the dual purpose of the books, and this is what has made the Chronicles of Narnia constantly popular among both children adults, and what will make them classic stories for many years to come.has little to do with the overall history of Narnia, but it is a very entertaining side adventure, which enriches the world of Narnia and makes it a more realistic setting for the rest of the novels.  The climax is a crusade-like battle between followers of Aslan and the Calormenes, pagan worshippers of a false deity.<br />THE MAGICIAN'S NEPHEW.  This book takes place much before The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.  The heroes here are Digory Kirke and Polly Plummer, the first children to visit Narnia.  This book outlines the creation of Narnia, and the 'fall' of that magical realm.<br />THE LAST BATTLE.  The world of Narnia is coming to an end.  A false Aslan is abroad in the land, and the people (and beasts) struggle to follow what they think is the truth.  This is the apocalypse of Narnia, the end of the world.  The Christian references in this one are especially prominent.<br />One of the most intriguing things about CS Lewis's fiction is that he believed that Christianity could be taught through fantasy, or \\"fairy stories,\\" as JRR Tolkien called them.  Throughout this series, there are many references to Christianity, and these books truly do fulfill their purpose of entertaining children while teaching them good moral values at the same time.  This is the dual purpose of the books, and this is what has made the Chronicles of Narnia constantly popular among both children adults, and what will make them classic stories for many years to come.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R20K1DUNRZRQ3K	0064409457	184061428	The Silver Chair (The Chronicles of Narnia, Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An action-packed adventure in the world of Narnia	This, the sixth installment of the Chronicles of Narnia series (though it was published fourth), is quite a bit different than previous books in the series.  This novel follows the adventures of Eustace (from the Voyage of the Dawn Treader) and Jill, a new girl, as they try to free the prince Rilian (Caspian's son) from the clutches of an evil enchantress.  Last time Eustace was in Narnia, Caspian was a young man, but now he is old and decrepit, and mourns the loss of his son.  There is much more action in the plot of this book, and many more adventures than in previous books in the series.  There are many new types of creatures introduced (the Marsh-wiggles and Underworlders, for example) and several new characters.<br /> Like the other novels in this series, the Silver Chair is very well-written and enjoyable.  It is accessible for children as well as adults, and can provide entertainment to people of any age.  Christian references run rampant here, especially with Aslan as a Christ figure (he uses his blood to perform healing and rejuvenation).  Besides being a sort of Christian allegory, this book also comments on the school system, and points out the absurdity of `modern' private schools who don't even teach their students that they are sons and daughters of Adam and Eve.  The Chronicles of Narnia are timeless classics, both for their literary and narrative value and for the just plain good values they teach.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R2ISOETL87S5J9	0064409430	575376127	The Magician's Nephew, Collector's Edition (The Chronicles of Narnia)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The "Genesis" of Narnia	Chronologically, this is the first book in the Chronicles of Narnia series (though it was the sixth published).  This story features two children, Polly and Digore (who will grow up to be the Professor the children stay with in The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe), who are the first to travel to the land of Narnia.  First, however, they travel to another world, and there free an enchantress which then runs loose in Narnia.  <BR> <BR>This book tells the story of the creation of Narnia, as Aslan (a Christ-figure) sings a song which brings about all forms of life.  Allegorically (Lewis said this series was not an allegory, but it still has symbolic and allegorical meanings), there is a `fall' of Narnia, which is effected by Digore when he brings the sorceress to Narnia.  There is also Digore's uncle, Andrew, who is so hard-hearted that Aslan's speech is to him just growling and roaring.  He cannot understand Aslan because he does not want to (Lewis thought this was the problem with many who did not accept Christianity).  <BR> <BR>Besides providing the history of Narnia with a beginning, this book explains a great deal more about the other world.  The origins of the lamppost, the wardrobe, and Professor Kirke from The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe are explained.  This serves to enrich the land of Narnia, and provide a history for that great land.  This book, along with the rest of the Chronicles, is a classic in children's literature.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R9AJJ8PXX31RT	0802860605	235200045	Phantastes	Books	4	68	74	N	N	The Grandfather of modern fantasy	Throughout his adult life, CS Lewis repeatedly asserted that George MacDonald was his `master,' his mentor.  Without MacDonald's works (and this one in particular), there may never have been a Lewis as we know him.  Besides that, MacDonald has heavily influenced such other creators of fantasy as JRR Tolkien, Charles Williams, and GK Chesterton.  Madeleine L'Engle calls MacDonald the `Grandfather' of all who attempt to understand life through fantasy.  Indeed, he is a grandfather of modern fantasy of sorts. <BR> <BR>This particular novel had a profound impact on CS Lewis's conversion to Christianity.  He claims that it `baptized' his mind, and that it was this book which really got the ball rolling for Lewis's path back to his faith.  Phantastes is about a young man named Anodos who finds himself in another world (called Fairy-land) one morning.  As he wanders around Fairy-Land, he has a series of adventures and learns many valuable lessons.  Along the way he meets many strange creatures, some terrifying and some beautiful.  <BR> <BR>As Lewis himself has pointed out, MacDonald's books are not incredibly well-written.  His descriptions, however, are rich and enchanting, and the effect created by his vivid imagery is very powerful.  The narrative is somewhat confused, consisting mainly of many adventures which scarcely seem interrelated.  Most importantly, though, are the lessons young Anodos learns along the way, and this is the importance of the book.<BR> <BR>MacDonald was a master of teaching valuable lessons through fantasy.  Lewis, Tolkien, and others have since combined the ability to teach moral lessons through fantasy with powerful and compelling narrative, but MacDonald can truly be considered a pioneer of sorts.  Light readers of Christian apology or fantasy will do better with CS Lewis, JRR Tolkien, or GK Chesterton's works, which have more engaging storylines.  Still, for anyone with a strong interest in Lewis or any of the others, this book is a must-read,as it is a work which has inspired many of the great Christian and fantasy authors of the twentieth-century.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R1KNZ1XXCTHXGY	0020442106	671298565	The Last Battle (Chronicles of Narnia, Book 7)	Books	5	58	64	N	N	The "Apocalypse" of Narnia	The world of Narnia is coming to an end.  A false Aslan is abroad in the land, and the people (and beasts) struggle to follow what they think is the truth.  Eustace and Jill, from The Silver Chair, are sent to Narnia to help the last king of that land rally his troops for the final battle.  <BR> <BR>This is the apocalyptic volume of The Chronicles of Narnia.  If The Magician's Nephew speaks of a creation reminiscent of the book of Genesis, this book speaks of an end reminiscent of that foretold in the book of Revelation.  Here, everything comes to an end, and the entire purpose of the existence of Narnia is finally explained by Aslan.  The Christian references are unmistakable.  Aslan, like the Biblical Christ in Revelation, triumphantly comes to bring an end to his world and save his people.  Most of the material in this book is very Christian-like, all the way down to the separating of the creatures on the right and left hands of Aslan.<BR> <BR>This, the final volume of the Chronicles, brings everything to a head.  This book provides the so-called meaning of life, and gives validity and value to all of the good deeds the children have been trying to do since the first book.  Here, the good have their reward.  The descriptions in this book (especially the end) are absolutely beautiful, and the finale is nothing short of moving.  Lewis, a master of Christian apology, succeeds here in bringing to life the Christian concept of the end of the world, and of the final rewards of the just.  No part of the Chronicles of Narnia would be complete without the vision afforded by this, the final book.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R35WPUS797KPGP	0064409449	607344832	Prince Caspian: The Return to Narnia (The Chronicles of Narnia - Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	'Modern' Narnia	In this installment of the Chronicles of Narnia, the children go back to the land a year after their first visit.  They are surprised to find that, although only a year has passed on Earth, many hundreds of years have passed in Narnia, and almost everything is different.  Most of the magic is gone out of the land--the talking animals, moving trees, dwarves, and other creatures are little more than memories now, and the land is ruled and dominated by a race of men.  The men, incidentally, are skeptical in nature, and do all they can to oppress magic and the true history of Narnia.<br />The symbolism in this book is very vivid, and Lewis uses the plot very well to show the situation of much of modern society.  The race of men (led by Caspian's uncle) refuse to believe in magic, and also don't believe in Aslan.  Aslan is a Christ figure, so this unbelief in him is symbolic of twentieth-century skepticism.  Many people today do not believe in miracles or anything that cannot be scientifically `proven,' and a similar situation exists in Narnia, where men here the old stories of magic but many do not believe them.  In an allegorical sense, then, this novel shows us the folly of skepticism, and the absurdity of believing in a world in which nothing wonderful can occur.<br /><br />Like the rest of the Chronicles of Narnia, this book is a delightful children's story.  But there is a deep theology at work here, and this is one of the qualities which makes it appealing to adults.  I highly recommend this book, along with the rest of the Chronicles, to anyone interested either in fairy tales or in Christian allegory or theology.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R379GYKWLAIPGC	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Enter the magical realm of Narnia	CS Lewis is perhaps best-known for his Chronicles of Narnia series of children's books, of which this was the first written.  In fact, the book is second in chronological order, but this was the first book Lewis wrote and published, and I consider it to be the first of the series.  This is a story about four children who are staying at an enormous house in the country with an old Professor.  One day, Lucy (the youngest) finds a door (inside a wardrobe) to the magical world of Narnia.  This leads to a whole series of adventures, in which they join forces with a magical lion named Aslan to combat a wicked witch.<BR> <BR>This is a wonderful fairy-tale type story for children, but there is a lot of religious symbolism here as well.  Above all, Lewis was a master Christian apologist, and many Christian symbols and values appear in this book.  Aslan is a Christ figure, a selfless being who sacrifices himself for another, and who rises again and brings about a sort of \\"resurrection\\" of other animals when he restores to life various creatures who have been turned to stone.  Edmund, the youngest brother, is a symbol of a lost and selfish soul who goes seeking for evil, finds it, is enthralled by it, and finally redeems himself by practicing virtue.  Throughout the book there are numerous Christian references, no doubt an attempt by Lewis to make these stories teach children the right kind of values.  <BR> <BR>I am certain that one of Lewis's aims in writing this story was to inspire good moral living among children, to show what sort of behavior is acceptable, and what is not.  Note also his many jabs against the school system, especially those made by the Professor.  In fact, it is the new school Edmund attended which was the cause of his nastiness and selfish attitude.  There are many hints of Lewis's philosophy and theology here, and readers of his other works (for example, his books Miracles and the Abolition of Man) will find the values he advocates in those books put into practice here.  <br />These books serve a dual purpose.  They are very entertaining for children, and they also provide some very essential lessons.  This is what has made the Chronicles of Narnia constantly popular, both among children and among adults.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R12210JDG6S0VY	0064471063	440200388	The Horse and His Boy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A side adventure in the land of Narnia	This is the third book in the Chronicles of Narnia series, at least third chronologically.  It was actually the fifth book published.  This novel is different from many of the other ones in that it does not contain the visit of a child from our world to the land of Narnia.  Instead, it is the story of two children and two horses, all of whom are trying to flee the land of Calormen and seek true freedom in Narnia, where there are no human slaves and talking animals can do as they wish.  This adventure includes Lucy, Edmund, and Susan from The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, but they are not main characters.<BR> <BR>This book serves, more than anything, to enrich the world of Narnia.  The story does not play a major part in the history of Narnia, but it does nevertheless describe another aspect of the civilization, and this does much to make Narnia a much more believable land.  The Narnia of The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, for example, is a fantastic world without much depth, but books like this one serve to provide details and descriptions of the country that enrich the idea of Narnia.   <BR> <BR>The adversaries in this book, the Calormenes, are roughly the equivalent of Saracen pagans.  They believe in an obscure and militant god, chant aphorisms in the form of poetry to one another, enslave one another, and believe in a dictatorship as opposed to a free government.  The fact that they wear turbans, fight with scimitars, and live in the desert contributes to the Saracen comparison.  The Calormenes do not believe in Aslan (who is a Christ figure), or, if they do believe in him, they think he is some sort of sorcerer.  The battle at the end of the book seems to be a clash not unlike the crusades, in which one set of ideals fights against another.  <BR> <BR>The Chronicles of Narnia are some of the best fantasy novels ever written.  They are also great allegories of Christianity.  Everyone, children and adults alike, should experience the Chronicles firsthand.	2003-05-21
US	42173554	R3BY81KCWPTXIJ	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A classic novel about class	This is justly termed one of the greatest literary works of the twentieth century.  This relatively short novel is a biting commentary on the nature of class distinctions in American society in the early 1900s.  Gatsby, the 'hero,' is an extremely rich man who lives in a mansion and throws extravagant parties.  But he has not always been that way.  Once he was a pauper.<br />Gatsby is in love with Daisy, a married woman who comes from a wealthy family.  Though Gatsby now has money, he has 'new money'--in other words, he has not come from a long line of wealthy individuals.  This, in some ways, makes him inferior, at least in the eyes of Daisy and her husband.  The power of this novel, the lasting appeal it has, lies in Fitzgerald's poignant commentary on American upper-class mentality.<br />Nick, the narrator, comments that the rich are often \\"careless people,\\" and that they \\"smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back to their money...and let other people clean up the mess they made.\\"  What makes Gatsby great is his driving ambition, his burning desire to penetrate the upper social strata and get the heart of the woman he loves.<br />This novel is very tragic, but Gatsby himself seems to be more of a pathetic hero.  This is one of the things which gives the novel its appeal, and which makes Gatsby 'great'--he can be seen as the underdog clawing and fighting his way to the top, only to realize he isn't welcome there.  Besides being beautifully written, well told, and enjoyable to read, the Great Gatsby has a very important message to convey--sometimes (unfortunately), money IS everything.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	RN06WL2FV9R6K	0679413359	778826865	The Aeneid (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An excellent version of this classic epic	What can be said about this classic masterpiece in epic poetry? Virgil clearly emanated the Homeric style of epic, and his debt to Homer is very apparent in this work. Still, it retains a style and flavor all its own. The poem tells the story of Aeneas, the Trojan hero from the Iliad who survived to found the Roman race in Italy. The first half of the poem are his adventures in reaching Italy (comparable to the Odyssey), and the second half deal with the war that results from his landing there (comparable to the Iliad).<br />It is said that Virgil wrote this poem at least partially in hopes of fostering the national sentiment of the Romans, of making them proud of their heritage, and of uniting them in a common ancestry. His motives are very clear--there are a number of references to the future glory of Rome, and various visions of the leaders and generals who would bring Rome her greatest glory. Interestingly, this poem was never completed, and Virgil, on his deathbed, asked that it be destroyed. It was preserved, however, by Augustus, and so we have it in its mostly finished form today. <br />This translation by Fitzgerald is excellent. Like his translations of Homer, Fitzgerald's Aeneid flows very smoothly, and stays true to the feel of the original. Also, there is a postscript in the back detailing both the history of the times, and various events in Virgil's life. This postscript is very helpful in understanding the world in which the poet lived. <br />There is also a glossary of names in the back, very useful for keeping all the people, places, and deity straight.  The Everyman's binding is a great way to go at an affordable price. All in all, this version of The Aenied is very satisfying. I highly recommend it.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	RJ7G7KEWDUOPE	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Classic Vonnegut	Kurt Vonnegut, in the Preface to this book, says \\"This book is my fiftieth birthday present to myself.\\"  The result is a novel which is a little lighter, a little less focused, and a little more witty than his other novels.  One of the main characters of this novel is Kilgore Trout, a struggling (in fact, failed) writer who can only get his stories and novels published as filler for pornographic magazines and books.  Anyone who has read Slaughterhouse Five by Vonnegut will recognize Trout's name--the main character of that novel, Billy Pilgrim, spends some time in a hospital next to a man (Eliot Rosewater) who is Trout's ONLY fan, and who has a private collection of Trout's work which is larger than the one Trout himself has.<BR> <BR>Trout makes his appearance in this book when he departs for an arts festival in a small town called Midland City.  There his path crosses with Dwayne Hoover, a car dealer who is already a little off his rocker and is soon to be made completely insane by Trout's writings, which he takes seriously.  Though this was not my favorite of Vonnegut's novels, and though I did not enjoy the story as much as some of his other works, I could not help enjoying this book.  Vonnegut is a superb writer, a true master of his craft.  The drawings he includes are funny and add to the overall satirical effect of the book.  Vonnegut perhaps included that part about the book being a birthday present so it wouldn't be taken as seriously as some of his other novels.  I think the best part of this book is that it seems like Vonnegut wrote it just for the sake of writing, and that he didn't care what anyone would think of it. Breakfast of Champions certainly is not the masterpiece that Slaughterhouse Five or Cat's Cradle are, but it is nevertheless a very entertaining read.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	RTAQ52UTECYZQ	0679413359	58983679	The Aeneid (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent version of this classic epic	What can be said about this classic masterpiece in epic poetry? Virgil clearly emanated the Homeric style of epic, and his debt to Homer is very apparent in this work. Still, it retains a style and flavor all its own. The poem tells the story of Aeneas, the Trojan hero from the Iliad who survived to found the Roman race in Italy. The first half of the poem are his adventures in reaching Italy (comparable to the Odyssey), and the second half deal with the war that results from his landing there (comparable to the Iliad).<br />It is said that Virgil wrote this poem at least partially in hopes of fostering the national sentiment of the Romans, of making them proud of their heritage, and of uniting them in a common ancestry. His motives are very clear--there are a number of references to the future glory of Rome, and various visions of the leaders and generals who would bring Rome her greatest glory. Interestingly, this poem was never completed, and Virgil, on his deathbed, asked that it be destroyed. It was preserved, however, by Augustus, and so we have it in its mostly finished form today. <br />This translation by Fitzgerald is excellent. Like his translations of Homer, Fitzgerald's Aeneid flows very smoothly, and stays true to the feel of the original. Also, there is a postscript in the back detailing both the history of the times, and various events in Virgil's life. This postscript is very helpful in understanding the world in which the poet lived. <br />There is also a glossary of names in the back, very useful for keeping all the people, places, and deity straight.  The Everyman's binding is a great way to go at an affordable price. All in all, this version of The Aenied is very satisfying. I highly recommend it.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	R3A5R46CM5DVNG	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not to be taken lightly	Like his earlier novel `Animal Farm,' George Orwell's masterpiece 1984 explores the terror of totalitarianism.  Both novels are cases of socialism gone awry, of revolutions which start out trying to throw off an oppressive government and end up establishing a new one which is even more oppressive than before.  The masses (not very intelligent, according to Orwell, and easily manipulated and persuaded) are used by the middle-class to displace the upper-class, not so a system of equality can be established (though that is the promise given to the masses) but rather that a new upper-class can take the place of an old one.  It is significant that Orwell, who was a believer in socialism himself, used socialism as the basis of the revolution, but it is also true that this concept can be applied to any form of government.<br /><br />This book expands upon Orwell's message in `Animal Farm.'  In that book, the animals stage a revolution--in this book, the revolution is already accomplished, and the new government firmly in place.  The government of `Big Brother' (the dictator figure of 1984) allows its subjects no liberties and no freedoms whatsoever--not even privacy in their own homes.  The past-in the form of old media and history books-is controlled by `The Party,' as is the language (The Party is working on a system of language, which will eliminate any words which do not agree with the Party's intentions).  The Party government of 1984 seems very exotic, since nothing of that sort has actually taken place.  But there are still lessons to be learned.<br /><br />Perhaps the most poignant lesson of the novel is described by the `Newspeak' word \\"Doublethink\\" (Orwell coined this word).  It means, in effect, the ability to believe something even in the face of evidence to the contrary.  A parent who will not believe her child would use drugs even when she finds them in his room is a good example of this.  In fact, \\"Doublethink\\" is a much greater threat than we choose to believe.  The genius of this novel is that Orwell is able to point out problems such as these, problems in our own society.  Though most of the setting of the novel is extreme, many of the ideals and guidelines the Party teaches are real threats, threats we face today.<br /><br />This is one of the great novels of the 20th century.  It is almost standard reading for high-schoolers, but this does not mean that it is a juvenile work of fiction.  On the contrary, the mental dictatorship of 1984 is not an impossible threat, even today, and for this message the book is justly termed a classic.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	RSIB4WU0VUTGS	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A biting satire about the end of the world	This apocalyptic novel by one of America's greatest satirical writers is an interesting view of what the end of the world may be like.  The hero, John (Johah, as he calls himself), begins work on a book about the bombing of Hiroshima, and ends up getting mixed up in the lives of the A-bomb's principal inventor's children.  Interestingly enough, the man who was most responsible for the atomic bomb is also largely to blame for the final destruction of human life.  <BR> <BR>Vonnegut may be a fatalist, and he certainly is a pessimist.  His bleak view of mankind, of science, of religion (as exemplified by the outrageous theology he creates) is nothing short of a wake-up call.  Vonnegut is immensely entertaining, and anyone who enjoyed Slaughterhouse Five or any of his other novels is sure to be pleased with this book.  Dark it may be, but this was, for me, one of Vonnegut's most enjoyable works of fiction.	2003-05-15
US	42173554	R1DS30KANVG6YF	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An excellent modernist approach to the problem of war	This `anti-war book,' as Vonnegut himself has called it, focuses on the life of a World War II prisoner of war named Billy Pilgrim.  Pilgrim (along with Vonnegut, the narrator) was present when Dresden was bombed and destroyed by the Allied forces, killing far more people than the atomic bombs in Hiroshima or Nagasaki.  The bombing, and the ensuing ruinous carnage of the former city, serve to show the horrors of war, and the violence and destruction of innocent lives which are sometimes a price of the bloody game of war.<BR> <BR>But this is not your typical anti-war book.  Vonnegut does not openly criticize the Allies for bombing Dresden--in fact, one of his characters points out that, at the time, it seemed like it had to be done.  Another, more subtle consequence of war is the focus of this book, however, and this consequence is exemplified in the mental state of Billy Pilgrim.  Billy thinks he has stepped outside of time, and no longer sees things chronologically.  Instead, the novel constantly jumps back and forth in time to different events in Billy's life, including a supposed alien kidnapping.  Though the book treats these time jumps as real, enough hints are given for the skeptical reader to doubt.  The war left Billy's life in shambles, and he spends the bulk of the novel trying to make sense of it all (hence the non-linear narrative).<BR> <BR>Vonnegut seems to be showing us two ugly sides to war.  The first is the side we all know by now--the innocent victims, the meaningless slaughter, the terrible destruction.  But the second, subtler side can only be seen in Billy Pilgrim's character, and it seems this is another horrible effect of war.  War causes carnage and bloodshed while it is occurring, but it also has long term effects.  Depression, anxiety, and many other forms of mental illness can come about because of war, as Vonnegut so eloquently points out in this novel.  This is considered to be one of the greatest modernist novels of the 20th century, and with good reason.  I highly recommend this unique take on war.	2003-05-10
US	42173554	RRRN32WC8DDUB	0830823115	14558674	The Most Reluctant Convert: C. S. Lewis's Journey to Faith	Books	3	12	15	N	N	There and back again--CS Lewis's spiritual journey	I'm not quite sure how to classify this book.  It's not exactly a biography, because it does not attempt a thorough inspection of CS Lewis's life.  It's not literary criticism, because it mentions most of Lewis's works only in passing.  I suppose this book is rather an examination of the various steps of CS Lewis's departure from, avoidance of, and eventual return to Christianity.  In this book, Downing explores and evaluates all the stages of Lewis's philosophical and religious thought-from materialism to idealism to pantheism to Christianity, with brief stops along the way to consider spiritualism and theosophy.<BR> <BR>Lewis's time away from Christianity was a very interesting time in his life.  He toyed with many systems of belief, and struggled to come to grips with reality as he found system after system of philosophy to be flawed.  Downing does a good job of exploring the influences that aided Lewis's development-his teachers, mentors, and books he read all played an important part in this.  For that, at least, there is merit in this book, and Downing also uncovers a few (but they are few) details which Lewis himself leaves out in his autobiography, `Surprised by Joy.'<BR> <BR>Anyone who has read `Surprised by Joy,' however, will find that this book is basically just a rewording of what Lewis himself said in that work.  There is little in this book which cannot be gleaned from Lewis's own sketch of his early life, and Lewis's work has the added advantage of being both better written and written from his own point of view.  This book provides a decent summary of Lewis's autobiography, but little more.<BR> <BR>For the most part, Downing's insights are helpful, if not unique.  The narrative is sometimes confused, with Downing jumping (for example) from a period of doubt in Lewis's life to a scene from The Chronicles of Narnia or other of Lewis's fiction which illustrates what he later came to believe on the subject.  And the greatest flaw of this book comes in the last two pages of chapter 8, when Downing attempts to describe Lewis's spiritual experience while riding to a zoo with his brother.  Lewis describes that something happened (though he admits he doesn't know what) on that ride, and that he believed in Christ as the son of God when he arrived at the zoo, but hadn't when he had set out for the zoo.  Downing, in analyzing this experience, waxes psychological and attempts to get inside Lewis's head.  The result is a flowery blurb of supposed thoughts which Lewis had, told mostly in the first person (as if Downing had access to a level of Lewis's conscious which even he, Lewis, did not have) and reeking of an attempt at literary prowess rather than narrative fidelity.  Those two pages alone ruined the entire book for me.<BR> <BR>Despite these flaws, however, this book deserves three stars for its interesting look at Lewis's Journey to Faith (as the subtitle implies).  As I said, there is nothing new or groundbreaking here, and longtime fans of Lewis will find little which is unique, but this book is nevertheless merits a quick perusal.	2003-05-09
US	42173554	R1YN86T44QIE5Q	0486400611	366967157	The Waste Land, Prufrock and Other Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	The Waste Land	The Waste Land is sometimes considered to be the greatest poem of the twentieth century.  This collection from Dover (at an amazing price) includes this and several other of Eliot's poems.  The Waste Land, however, is considered to be his masterpiece, his 'epic,' in a sense.  In fact, it is interesting to compare Eliot's bleak vision of a land of waste to other, earlier epics.<br />The poem is in some sense a warning, in another sense a cry of despair.  The image of the wasted land, of the spiritually degenerate human race, is depressing, yet the poem ends with a glimmer (albeit faint) of hope--salvation is possible, however unlikely.  I am no expert on this poem, and like most people understand only fragments of it, but what I have gained from the poem I have found to be very enlightening, and very stirring.  <br />Eliot draws many references from the old legend of the Fisher-King, and an idea of what this legend is about (in all its many forms) is useful in interpreting the poem.  This is undoubtedly one of the classics in both English literature and modernist writings, and very worthwhile for anyone who is willing to take the time to study it.	2003-05-08
US	42173554	R2X1D9DZBIMK81	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	War in the eye of the beholder	This is war like you've never seen it before.  In a time when war novels were being written with glorified battles and heroic deeds, when the Civil War had been romanticized to the point that the true effects of the war had been forgotten, and when war had once again come to be considered a noble art, this book came along and destroyed all of that.  The book, of course, is set in the Civil War, and the hero is a young private eager to test his manhood in battle.  The war itself, however, plays a very limited role in the action--though there is violence, and though the whole of the plot hinges on a battle in the war, it is not this which is important.<br /> The battle is not named.  There is never any reference given to where it takes place geographically, and the book makes not one single mention of a real person or event in the Civil War.  So why is this book heralded a classic Civil War novel?  The answer lies in the fact that the conflict of the book (the real one) takes place entirely inside Henry's (the main character) head.  Rather than focus on the violence, the bloodshed and carnage, the deeds of men in war, Crane chose to focus on the psychological effect of war, and at this he was very successful.  The hero comes to be haunted--haunted by the memory that his acts of cowardice are never discovered and that his reputation is instead built on his public acts of bravery. <br /> This was one of the first novels to focus on the real side of war--the side without all the hype and glory.  After WWI, this novel fit nicely as a sort of predecessor to modernist writing.  This book is a great way to realize what war MIGHT really be like.  Crane's genius lies in the fact that, at age 21, he could write such a novel about the horrors of war without ever setting foot on a battlefield (by that time, at least).  The value of this novel is in the message about war, not in its portrayal of war itself, and for this the book is rightly considered a classic.	2003-05-08
US	42173554	R2NO8BVBZHRNBZ	0060956445	571510645	Monkey Wrench Gang, The	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Ecological vigilantes	In this book, which is considered to be Edward Abbeys crowning achievement, people actually begin to fight back against the terrors of environmental depredation.  Strip mines, logging operations, dams that destroy ecosystems, new highways, bridges spanning canyons, even billboards--all of these things ruin and deface the natural environment, and all are targets of the self-styled Monkey Wrench Gang.  They are a unique breed of eco-terrorists (so to speak) who wage a war against machinery and THE machine in an attempt to keep the wilderness as fertile and unmolested as possible.  Theirs is a losing battle, and they know it, but they fight it simply because their consciences wont allow them not to.<BR> <BR>Though Abbey treated this novel as a joke (most of the time), he no doubt intended it to have some impact, which it did.  Many new environmental groups took this as their Bible, and count it as a sort of rallying cry.  Many people dont get involved in the issues of environmentalism (such as myself), but you cant help admiring the small band of eco-crusaders in this book.  They dont expect to win.  They just hope they can slow things down enough to make a difference.<BR> <BR>The novel goes from one exploit of the gang to the next, as they vandalize bulldozers, burn helicopters, sabotage mining operations, etc.  They are driven by a compulsion to help the environment (the hero, Hayduke, cannot pass a piece of machinery without stopping to vandalize it).  The characters are likable, the writing superb, and the story just downright engaging.  Sometimes suspenseful, sometimes funny, often irreverent, the Monkey Wrench Gang is a great novel that, if it doesnt inspire you to action, will at least make you stop and think about what is happening to the natural land around us (or whats left of it).	2003-05-07
US	42173554	R2UZENOQC2T5Q2	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the great works in American Literature	Mark Twain called a `classic' a book that everyone praises but which no one actually reads.  This book defies that description, and the result is a classic which is both very readable and very enjoyable.  Few American authors have enjoyed such widespread popularity as Twain, and this work is, in my opinion, his best.  The story is fairly simple, and the plot such that any average person could read and follow the story, yet the message the novel conveys is so deep and important that one cannot help but be greatly enriched by this book.<br /><br />This is the story of Huck Finn, the son of the town drunk from `The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.'  In this novel Huck helps a slave, Jim, escape from slavery, and the two of them float down the Mississippi in search of freedom for both of them.  Along the way they have many adventures, and Tom even makes an appearance toward the end of the novel to complicate and romanticize things in true Tom Sawyer style.<br />This book has much to say about the subject of slavery.  The institution is so entrenched in Huck's world that it is preached from the pulpit, that aiding a slave to escape means eternal damnation for the accomplice.  Throughout the novel Huck struggles with this issue, as his inner conscience (which knows he should help Jim, and which sees him as an intelligent and worthy friend) battles his knowledge of society's morals and values (which sees Jim as a mindless brute which should be returned to captivity).  In many ways Huck is far more perceptive than most people in his time, because he sees Negroes as people too.  Huck's final decision in the matter is one of the great moments in American Literature.  He knows what it means to help Jim, but he has made up his mind, \\"All right, then, I'll go to hell!\\"<br /><br />I first read this book when I was young, and even then I was impressed by the story.  I didn't understand most of the meaning, but the book nevertheless made an impact on me.  This is the beauty of Mark Twain--he is readable for all ages.	2003-05-04
US	42173554	R1UUJ970NQ29NV	0553211587	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A unique take on slavery	This is not one of Twain's best novels, but it is nevertheless a very good read.  Like Huckleberry Finn, this book deals with slavery, but this time Twain tackles the problem in an entirely different manner.  Roxana, a woman who is 1/16 Negro but still a slave, gives birth to an almost-white son, and switches him for a white baby at birth.  The result is that the boys grow up in each others' roles, with the boy who should be master (Tom) being raised as the slave, and vice-versa.  <BR> <BR>Like Huck Finn, this novel makes a statement about the terrors of slavery (especially of slavery in the deep-South).  But there is also something else at work here. Roxy's real child, Chambers (though he is known as Tom), grows up to be cruel and mean, both to his servants and his mother.  The usurper Tom turns into a detestable young man while the slave boy (who is the real Tom) turns out cool and reserved, and very well-behaved.  Whether the usurper is rotten because of his lowly birth or because of his upper-class upbringing is never exactly made clear, but the intriguing part comes about when the boys are finally restored to their respective positions.  At this point the real Tom is unable to function as a member of upper-class society.  He feels totally uneasy around other whites, and prefers the simple company of the slaves with which he was raised.<BR> <BR>This novel effectively reduces the lot of a life of slavery to a matter of chance.  It was chance that made one infant free and the other a slave, and it was also no fault of their own that they were changed.  The horrible injustice of that institution becomes obvious when seen as a random consignment of one human being to freedom and another to slavery.  This may not be the best of Twain's works, but it is nevertheless a classic of American Literature.	2003-05-04
US	42173554	R13AUIZ9XJ7TS5	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The horrors of totalitarianism	George Orwell's `Animal Farm' was among the first writing to appear criticizing Stalin's communist Russia.  The novel is a poignant allegory about what can go wrong when the masses allow themselves to be unquestioningly led by a select few `leaders' who are supposedly acting in their best interests.  The animals launch a revolution and expulse their drunken human master, and then set up their own form of socialist government.  Things soon go wrong, however, when the pigs (who are the intellectual leaders) begin to brainwash and manipulate the other animals.  In time, all of the ideals which the revolution stood for are abandoned, class distinctions arise, and the pigs begin subjugating everyone under their rule just as the farmer did.<br /> This book is not an attack against socialism itself, but rather against totalitarianism, whatever form it may take.  Readers (and reviewers) who believe Orwell is attacking not only Stalinist Communism but also capitalism itself are missing the point.  The pigs are portrayed as evil not because they become capitalists (though this is a step in their corruption), but because they assert absolute authority over the rest of the animals.  Their crime lies in allowing special privileges for themselves, creating a system of classes, and abolishing the democratic voting power of the other farm animals.  They are evil not because they open trade with other farmers and take on a capitalist attitude, but because they oppress the other animals in doing so.<br /> One of the things which makes this book a classic is that it applies to all systems of government, not just to Soviet Communism.  The propaganda, the dog `police' (equal to the Gestapo or the KGB), the changing of rules to exempt the upper-classes from their crimes--all of these things are dangers in any system of government, and apply to not only 1940's Communist Russia but also Nazi Germany (and many other governments throughout history as well).<br /> It is true that the animals' socialist government works for a time, and I suppose this could be an argument that Orwell is actually promoting socialism here.  Well, the reason \\"Animalism\\" works at first is because each member of the farm does his duty, each contributes to the overall benefit of the community.  In this case, it is a very Utopian socialism which Orwell promotes.  And, if anything, this book shows that human (or animal) nature will not allow such a utopian existence to exist for long.  The animals' government works at first because they govern themselves, and I think this is what Orwell is trying to tell us: any government whose rule is taken out of the hands of the people and placed in the role of a select few is certain to become corrupt and oppressive.als' socialist government works for a time, and I suppose this could be an argument that Orwell is actually promoting socialism here.  Well, the reason \\"Animalism\\" works at first is because each member of the farm does his duty, each contributes to the overall benefit of the community.  In this case, it is a very Utopian socialism which Orwell promotes.  And, if anything, this book shows that human (or animal) nature will not allow such a utopian existence to exist for long.  The animals' government works at first because they govern themselves, and I think this is what Orwell is trying to tell us: any government whose rule is taken out of the hands of the people and placed in the role of a select few is certain to become corrupt and oppressive.	2003-05-04
US	42173554	R3SMRNSPVH5ZDA	0072821027	40221136	Introduction to Information Systems with PowerWeb	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Introduction to information systems	This book is just what it claims to be--an introduction to information systems.  There is not a tremendous amount of detail here, but I believe there is enough to give the reader a good idea of the concepts involved.  At times, the author does seem to carry on more than is needed, and often you can understand the concept of a chapter very well just by reading the sentences containing the bold words.  The best part of the book, in my opinion, is the use of real-world examples, to show how the concepts discussed are being put into use, and how they have benefited real-life companies.<br />Chances are, if you're buying this book, it's for a college level course.  I am a non-business major, and this book was part of a class I took as a general education credit.  For this, I think the book is adequate, because it gives a decent introductions into IS without a lot of details.  BIS majors, however, will not benefit a great deal from this book, as everything is so basic that it will be of little benefit to someone serious about working with information systems.	2003-04-26
US	42173554	R355G9JMZXW5ET	0679739041	241063429	Confessions of Felix Krull, Confidence Man: The Early Years	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A much lighter side to Thomas Mann	In this, the last of Thomas Mann's novels, we see him relaxing, letting his hair down, so to speak.  Gone are the philosophical debates of Magic Mountain, the complicated musical discussions of Doctor Faustus, and even the attitude toward decline and decay from Buddenbrooks.  This is a book about Felix Krull, a young man who learns early on that life is what he wants it to be.  He becomes a `confidence man,' someone who changes his name frequently and acts in a `role' of an identity not his own.<br /><br />The intriguing thing about Krull is that he is every bit the artist.  He is an actor through and through, so good at his trade that he actually becomes (even in his own mind) the character he is portraying.  The only difference is that his stage is the world at large.  Throughout Felix's early years he deceives various people, steals from a couple of them, takes advantage of others.  But Felix is not your typical conman.  He seems not to want to hurt anyone, and often goes out of his way to be fair to people.  The schemes he does pull he does not consider to be necessarily wrong--in fact, he sees himself acting in an acceptable way.  His justification for this is that he is made of `finer clay' than other people.<br /><br />In Felix we see many of Mann's other characters--Hans Castorp (in his education at the museum in Lisbon), Tonio Kroger (in his musings on the price and toll of being an artist), even Christian or Hanno Buddenbrook in a sense (what they may have been under other circumstances, without familial pressure).  Certainly, anyone familiar with Mann's works will notice that most of the themes of this book are familiar, and have been used in other works as well.  There really is nothing groundbreaking in Felix Krull--it is rather an enjoyable novel, especially for fans of Mann, that is easy to read and has some good insights in it.  It is not his best work, but it is certainly worth the time to read it.	2003-04-22
US	42173554	R1L3IX095BRXD6	0679723110	819309084	Grendel	Books	5	101	115	N	N	View the old epic from the monster's point of view	What if you could see into the mind of Grendel, the terrifying creature of the night from Beowulf?  Well, with this book by John Gardner, you can.  Brutal at times, irreverent at others, and very cynical at others, Grendel wanders around for many years watching the development of the various human tribes and the emergence of Hrothgar as a sort of king among them.  He spends twelve years in a unique relationship with the king, trying first to make friends with the Danes (he is attacked) and later making raids and killing the most drunken of Hrothgars thanes.  The notorious coward Unferth (the one who later insults Beowulf) is also developed here--Grendel has such contempt and pity for Unferth that he will not kill him (thus giving him a heros death) despite Unferths repeated attempts to fight him.<BR> <BR>In the poem Beowulf, Grendel is a very flat character.  He is, in fact, the epitome of evil, unfeeling and cruel.  He comes, he kills and eats people, he leaves.  Then he comes back.  This book gives Grendel a personality.  He knows he is a member of the fallen (Cains) race, and accepts that fact.  He is lonely, and cannot even get companionship from his mother, who has long ceased to communicate.  In fact, his only real friends are the Danes he kills.  Still, he knows he is dependent on Hrothgars survival.  If I murdered the last of the Scyldings, he muses, what would I live for?<BR> <BR>This book gives excellent insight into the character of Grendel, and will definitely change the way you look at the poem Beowulf.  Gardners Grendel is a creature who determines to kill Beowulf for the honor of Hrothgar, so that his thanes will not have been outdone by a newcomer.  I highly recommend this short work for anyone interested in the great old English epic.	2003-04-22
US	42173554	R3HX26MNZC6RXI	0380714590	585828228	The Brave Cowboy	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Brave indeed	This is a novel about a man born into the wrong era.  Jack Burns is a cowboy through and through--unaccustomed to having his freedom restricted and driven by a strong sense of loyalty and honor. The problem is he lives in post World War II America, and his old-fashioned values and desire to roam the country freely often clash with the modern society in which he lives.  This causes many problems for Burns, some simple, some complicated: he has a hard time getting his horse to cross the highway, people don't respect him, he doesn't register for the draft (which was compulsory then).  He is put in jail trying to help a friend, and it is here that the conflict of old and new really begins to unfold.<BR> <BR>Without revealing too much of the plot, Burns tries to beat modern society with his old-fashioned ways.  The final section of the book deals with the physical conflict between old and new, between horse and horsepower, and it is clear that Jack Burns simply does not belong in the era into which he was born.  This novel details the struggle for disappearing values, the desperate attempt to hold on to the past (and the consequences this sometimes brings).  Edward Abbey is an excellent writer, and his prose is vivid and descriptive.  The Brave Cowboy is a classic work of American Western fiction.	2003-04-17
US	42173554	R1PMO22VLOACCP	0486223051	799810493	The Rime of the Ancient Mariner	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Beautiful woodcuts bring vivid imagery to this great poem	I have to disagree with the bad rap this poem often gets.  Sure, Coleridge's 4-3-4-3 meter is simple and easily imitable, but that does not change the fact that he used the meter masterfully, that his verse is beautiful and his imagery splendid (even without the woodcuts).  The story is fairly simple, though its effect is somewhat chilling.  Yes, I've even heard the Mariner compared to Popeye with a dead bird around his neck.  But all joking aside, this is a beautiful poem.<br />On the surface, this may just seem to be a simple poem by an English Romantic.  But there is so much more.  There is a lesson to be learned, one of respect for God's creatures and for all of creation.  This is certainly a Romantic point of view, and Coleridge puts it forth very nicely in this poem.<br />This is a great beginning poem for novices of poetry, for beginners and for people who dislike poetry if it doesn't rhyme and have a definite rhythm.  This is definitely Coleridge's best poem, one that everyone should be familiar with.  This version with the woodcuts makes for a very attractive package--the illustrations add nicely to the poems overall effect.	2003-04-16
US	42173554	R3H1FZT9IEDU1C	0140422536	485659651	Idylls of the King (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	An epic Arthurian Romance	This lengthy poem about King Arthur's court is written in grand epic style, in the spirit of the Iliad, the Odyssey, and Paradise Lost, and drawing on these and other great epics.  Tennyson follows many of the traditional epic conventions here--the epic similes, the epic quests, etc.  But this work is not wholly an epic, it is rather more of a Romance.  The book is divided into various sections, each dealing with a knight (or knights) of King Arthur's court.  The adventures they encounter are various and only remotely connected, but there is a back story to each. Something is going on behind the scenes.  The first part of the book deals with the rise of Arthur, and of the glory of his kingdom.  The second part focuses on the gradual decline of his influence, and culminates with the King's discovery of Lancelot and Guinevere's affair.<br /><br />This is one of my favorite Arthurian romances.  Tennyson's verse is beautiful and vivid, and his story is both compelling and easy to follow.  No study of English Romanticism would be complete without Tennyson, and this is one of his finest works.	2003-04-16
US	42173554	RPKHR45KZTCFL	0873529758	600744907	MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers, Fifth Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An indispensable reference	This volume is priceless.  Everyone who writes research papers has questions on how to document or cite something, and this manual provides the solution.  It covers everything from abbreviations to translations to multi-volume works to internet sites.  It is extremely easy to use--everything you need can be found without difficulty.  The chapters and sections are nicely arranged in such a way that makes it easy to find your way around the book.<br />I have used this guide many times in writing papers.  It has effectively eliminated the guesswork, the wondering just how to include something in my bibliography, or what the proper way to cite something is.  Anyone who writes research papers of any kind needs to have a copy of this book.	2003-04-16
US	42173554	R1QPP2943G5ADI	0766104567	888796129	Key to the Science of Theology	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A very compelling work on theology from an LDS author	Parley P. Pratt was one of the central early LDS (Mormon) theologians.  His writings on God, philosophy, and theology were some of the first published by any Mormon author.  In this work, Pratt explores the 'Science' of Theology, and attempts to reconcile the idea and image of God with a 'pure' science (he argues that some scientific theories are not true--hence his name 'pure,' or true).  He has some very interesting ideas about Divine authority (called the Priesthood), creation, dreams, miracles, and the like.  <br />It should be noted that this is a work specifically for an LDS audience, or at least an audience with a basic understanding of Mormon beliefs.  This is not a basic summary of LDS doctrine, but rather a very philosophically-minded work with Mormonism at its core.  It should also be noted that Pratt's views are not the 'official' Mormon stance, but rather his personal opinions.<br />This is a great book, very thought provoking.  I recommend it to anyone who would like to broaden his or her theological horizons.	2003-04-16
US	42173554	R5WYEJXPGEHP6	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	53	55	N	N	The dangers of moral relativism	In this short book, CS Lewis takes public education for his subject, though the scope of the work goes well into the philosophical and ethical realms.  The master Christian apologist is here arguing against what he sees to be the evils of moral relativism.  His essay \\"Men Without Chests,\\" reminiscent of TS Eliot, speaks of just what would happen if we were to lose all sense of good and bad, and chose instead to attempt to see everything in a purely `objective' way, without regard for what has been established as right and wrong.<br /> The rest of the book develops and plays upon this idea, and Lewis examines the possibilities of a civilization who abandons \\"The Tao\\" (the name Lewis gives to a widely accepted system of moral values) and tries instead to mold its citizens into whatever form its leaders should decide.  Of course, this is exactly what Lewis warns again in his Science Fiction novel That Hideous Strength, and what is also seen in the book 1984.<br /> To me, the highlight of this book was the appendix.  Superbly compiled, it is Lewis's definition of \\"The Tao,\\" and features a number of moral values (such as one's obligation to society and duty to parents).  The best part of this, though, is that Lewis quotes from an enormous range of sources, citing everything from Plato to Beowulf to the Bible to Egyptian writings to show that these are values which have been widely accepted throughout history.  This is his basis for calling \\"The Tao\\" the ultimate system of moral values, and his justification through widespread acceptance is very good indeed.<br /><br />I believe this is one of CS Lewis's best works, full of inspirational thoughts on morality and warnings against using Science to make man a part of `Nature' and losing all respect for man as a Divine Creation.  His book God in the Dock goes along well with this one--many of the essays in that book coincide nicely with those in this one.  Once again, CS Lewis has proven himself a master of putting things in a way everyone can understand.a way everyone can understand.	2003-04-14
US	42173554	REHWGPYARQ2J9	0679744398	270121541	All the Pretty Horses (The Border Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A cowboy story with a bold, but believable hero	The era of the cowboy is gone, though some refuse to accept it.  This novel is about two young boys who are desperately trying to hold on to the cowboy way of life, whose search for independence and the freedom to work with horses leads them to Mexico.  But this is more than a simple book about horses--in Mexico the boys encounter a corrupt system of law and a firmly-rooted social hierarchy with which they must do battle.  <BR> <BR>John Grady, the hero of the novel, falls in love with a rich man's daughter, but is unable to formally court her because he is poor and American.  One of the focal points of this book is the social structure of Mexico, the rigid differences of class and the separation of the hierarchy (most of whom claim to be of pure Spanish blood) from the lower classes.   More than just a love story, this book deals with the difficult aristocratic-like social structure which could not even be fully done away with in the Revolution of 1910-1917 (of which the book makes mention as well).<BR> <BR>This book is very valuable for its historical content, as well as for its compelling narrative, its very believable and truly remarkable characters, and for its excellent story.  The one major complaint I have is that McCarthy's syntax and grammar are very poor.  Don't expect any punctuation marks, and be ready for both fragment and run-on sentences, the former of which sometimes is only a few words without a verb or subject, the latter which sometimes goes on mercilessly for half a page without any commas or punctuation of any kind.  I know this is a new stylistic preference which many authors use, but it is very annoying.  A vivid description loses most of its savor when it composes only one sentence and the word `and' appears fifteen or so times.  <BR> <BR>Despite the horrid style of writing (which some, admittedly, may find appealing), this is a wonderful book, well worth the time to read for both its narrative and its historical value.	2003-04-12
US	42173554	R33T20ZRFL28IV	0375701168	25770343	Doctor Faustus: The Life of the German Composer Adrian Leverkuhn As Told by a Friend	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A masterful Faustian novel, and one of Mann's best	This is considered by some to be Mann's last great work.  Great it is, though perhaps not the monumental triumph equal to the Magic Mountain.  This novel is a Faustian story--its hero is the German composer Adrian Leverkuhn, a musician who becomes so tormented with his music and so obsessed with creative genius that he makes a pact with the devil and bargains away his soul for twenty-four years of unparalleled musical ability.<BR> <BR>As always, Mann's work is full of philosophical and theological debates, and there is also a good deal of musical discussion here as well.  Adrian's deal with the dark one is a metaphor for Germany in the period during and between the two great World Wars.  Like his homeland, Adrian becomes obsessed with power and glory, and revolutionizes music to such a great extent that the outside world is repulsed by it.  In the end, like Germany, his power and glory come to an end, and as Serenus (the narrator of the story) sits writing in the midst of the allied invasion of Germany, Adrian is finally called to pay his debt.<BR> <BR>Mann's narrative is always very compelling, and this is no exception.  And, as usual, there is much deeper meaning than what is perceived at the surface, and the poignant and important message of the novel is the danger of becoming over-greedy for power, and of falling victim to one's own ambitions (as both Adrian and Germany do).  Adrian loses his ability to love, and he can never regain it, not even when he ultimately seeks redemption.  This is a great spin on the Faustian concept, and also a very powerful novel about the effects of the German Reich during World Wars 1 and 2.	2003-04-09
US	42173554	RWI8GCX83PQJJ	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A great collection of essays by the master apologist	As always, CS Lewis is absolutely amazing as a Christian apologist.  He seems to have all the answers and, what's more, knows how to explain them in language and in terms that everyone can understand.  I consider him to be one of the best Christian apologists of the last few centuries, and my intense interest in `all things Lewis' is what led me to buy this collection of essays (it should be noted that these essays do not deal exclusively with Christianity, but, as the subtitle implies, also treat the subject of ethics).  <BR> <BR>Lewis has never let me down with a work of his, and this proved no exception.  The one small objection (not really an objection--more of a comment) I have is that many of these essays (and most of Lewis's ideas in them) can be found in other works of his in a much more refined and pleasant version.  This, of course, is not Lewis's fault, nor the fault of Reverend Hooper, who compiled them.  That much of this is old news to a longtime fan of Lewis is attributable simply to the fact that this is a compilation, and hence bound to include things found elsewhere.  What is important is the content, and the content of these essays is unbelievably good. <BR> <BR>Many of these essays sound surprisingly like other essays in the same collection, and for this reason I would not recommend this collection to just anybody.  If you want a good introduction to Lewis's thinking, it will be better found in such works as Mere Christianity, Miracles, or the Problem of Pain.  In fact, this collection would be best suited to a very dedicated fan of Lewis (like myself), who doesn't mind reading things he's already read and is willing to put up with seeing his subject bounce around from essay to essay.   This is not a good starting place, but as I said, for some of us there just isn't enough CS Lewis, and it is here that this collection becomes indispensable.	2003-04-07
US	42173554	R15GT1GHQF3E8O	067172262X	43217624	Hamlet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of Shakespeare's greatest tragedies	There really is no way to review a masterpiece like this.  Shakespeare is considered by most to be the greatest writer of all time, and Hamlet is almost universally considered to be one of his best works.  There are so many immortal phrases and lines in this play, the most famous being &quot;to be or not to be.&quot;  The play contains seven soliloquies by Hamlet which provide an interesting look at his character.  If you consider these soliloquies side by side, you can see a sort of 'backstory' dealing with the development of Hamlet's character, from suffering to suicidal to vengeful (&quot;My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth&quot;).  <br />It is impossible to study Shakespeare without studying Hamlet.  This is certainly one of the cornerstones of English literature.  These folger editions are light and convenient to carry, and are very affordable as well.  Hamlet is an excellent place to start if you want to become acquainted with Shakespeare.	2003-04-04
US	42173554	R1NOL47ZWA79TJ	039309071X	938925106	The Prelude: 1799, 1805, 1850 (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	A beautiful epic, with an English Romantic spin	It is interesting that Wordsworth should never have published his most impressive poem.  Norton calls it the \\"most original long poem since Milton's Paradise Lost,\\" and it certainly deserves to be ranked alongside the master of the English epic.  This poem was not published until after Wordsworth's death in 1850, and there are several versions of it (which are included in this book).  The 1798-1799 version is very short, but the 1805 is expanded and includes many epic devices which Wordsworth borrowed from Milton and others.  The 1850 version is basically a revised 1805 edition.  It is not necessary that you read all three versions of the poem to understand its power, but it is useful to have them all at hand like this.<br />The Prelude is an autobiography about Wordsworth's early life.  It is full of sublime images of the world through the eyes of a Romantic, and includes some of the most beautiful imagery ever set to verse in English (I believe).  Wordsworth's reflections about the evils of ambition and self-absortion, among other things, are also very powerful.<br />This poem has been widely quoted by such Christian authors as CS Lewis, and has been admired by many great English poets.  It is truly a masterpiece, an epic poem done in the tradition of English Romanticism.  You can get this poem in many compilations, but usually in abridged form.  This edition features the poem in its entirety, and in three version.  This poem is essential to any study of English Romanticism.	2003-04-01
US	42173554	R18VB9KLBCYAKS	0226260798	713392352	Reconstruction after the Civil War	Books	2	12	29	N	N	A somewhat confused account of the Reconstruction era	This short book focuses on what is an oft ignored segment of American History--the Reconstruction effort after the Civil War.  Usually, Reconstruction is treated as a final chapter or sort of epilogue to many works on the war, but here Franklin attempts to devote an entire book to the various challenges presented to the North in the matter of reconstructing the shattered Union. <BR> <BR>I'm not quite sure Franklin achieves his purpose here.  The greater part of this book is confusing and difficult to follow, and in fact seems to state the same facts and cite the same incidents three or four different times.  The picture Franklin paints of the post-war South is one of violence and depredations committed by such organizations as the Ku Klux Klan against a poor and defenseless African American class.  He also portrays the Radical Republicans as trying to restore order and reconstruct the states, but also as just giving up ten years after the war and the election of Hayes.  In between, there is a jumble of facts and incidents which show the inability of both parties (which I agree with) to successfully reconstruct the South.  If this was an attempt to expose the injustices done to the Negroes by the ex-Confederate ruling class, I think the book achieved its purpose.  If, however, it truly was meant to be a book on Reconstruction as a whole, it falls short. In fact, there is little of historical value that one could not gain by the final chapters in a good Civil War text. <br /> If you are interested in black studies, this book will prove to be very useful.  But, if you are seeking a thorough and well-written account of the post Civil War era, I recommend you keep looking.	2003-03-28
US	42173554	R16PZCMH140EMA	0226500667	200661390	A River Runs Through It and Other Stories, Twenty-fifth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Hard work, religion, and fly-fishing	This is a collection of three stories (two novellas and a short story) about life in Montana at the beginning of the 20th century.  The title story is a wonderful narrative full of the beauties of nature (particularly the river).  In the story, Maclean's father is a preacher, and he educates his sons in the two most important matters of life--religion and fly-fishing.  Fishing itself takes on a metaphysical, almost religious nature in the book, and acts for the father and his two sons (Norman and Paul) as a sort of spiritual common-ground that religion cannot provide for these three very different individuals.  <BR> <BR>The other two stories are about logging and the Forest Service, and likewise provide an interesting look into the still-rough-and-tough Montana frontier of the early twentieth century.  These stories focus less on the metaphysical character of the land and more on the rugged nature of both the inhabitants and the terrain itself.  Both of these stories are pretty good, but neither of them comes close to matching A River Runs Through It in terms of pure, narrative emotion.<BR> <BR>Nature readers or fans of Western literature will love this book (which, incidentally, is better than the movie, though the movie does have some beautiful scenery which enriches the story even more).  Just reading it will make you want to get out on a river!	2003-03-28
US	42173554	R3IMIMHASTEWSP	0140422072	965481570	The Faerie Queene	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A classic English epic	Spenser's the Faerie Queene is one of the first epics to be written in English, and probably the first to draw on such masters as Virgil and Homer.  He purposely wrote in archaic English, so it is a bit difficult to understand (just imagine language that was old 400 years ago!), but taking the time to read it provides a very meaningful experience.<br />The Faerie Queene was supposed to include 12 books, some of which were never completed.  Each book was to star a Knight, who would embody some Christian virtue (for example, the Red-Crosse Knight is the hero of book 1--he represents holiness).  Additionally, all the books were to feature King Arthur as a hero who was the epitome of a good Christian.  The books are very allegorical, and most of the enemies and beasts the knights meet embody some vice or sin (such as the giant who represents Pride in book 1).  <br />The Faerie Queene is a classic medieval text, and is also a great epic poem.  As many have commented, it does take a lot of work, but the reward is also very immense.  For any fan of the epic format or student of classic English literature, the Faerie Queene is essential.	2003-03-26
US	42173554	RFNCUY3D6ZWK5	0764563769	572789405	CliffsQuickReview Calculus	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An excellent quick reference	I bought this slim little book when I was first taking Calculus in High School.  It helped me immensely with learning and studying Calculus, and provided a great refresher come test time.  Since then, I have sometimes needed a formula, and this manual has again been very useful.  Calculus is one of those things you forget if you don't use it, and I was in danger of forgetting it when I took a Physics class which required a basic knowledge of Calculus.  Thanks in part to this little book, I was able to brush up on the subject and be prepared for my class, though it has been several years since I first learned Calculus in High School and I have had little occasion to use it since.<br />This quick review will provide an excellent study guide for anyone, like myself, who doesn't use Calculus in everyday life but still doesn't want to forget it.  It has definitely proved to be worth its weight in gold for me!	2003-03-25
US	42173554	RQYQFQ7KALL4B	0393323943	640099287	Grant	Books	4	6	10	N	N	An objective look at Grant--with all his many faces	William S. McFeely's book Grant attempts to be an objective look at the life of one of the most well-known of US generals.  It is a good account, full of details into Grant's life and quick to dispel many of the popular myths (both positive and negative) which have been spread about the general.  The treatment of the Civil War does not take up the majority of the work, but instead comprises a part of the career of a man who went from tanner to army man to President to writer, with various stints as a failed businessman and bored peacetime army officer in between.<BR> <BR>In his quest for objectivity, I think McFeely has overstepped his bounds just a bit.  He greatly downplays Lincoln's affection for Grant, claiming that the President was never quite sure if he could trust the general.   Early on, this may have been true, but the fact is that Lincoln many times defended Grant when rumors came to his ear, saying he liked Grant because \\"he fights.\\"  Also, McFeely calls Grant's wilderness campaign a \\"hideous disaster,\\" and insinuates that Grant did not care much about the colossal loss of life at Cold Harbor.  The overwhelming fact about the Wilderness Campaign is that it was, indeed, very costly in terms of human life.  Still, Grant got things done.  He defeated Lee--something McClellan and the other commanding officers could not do.  Grant did what he had to do, terrible though it was.<BR> <BR>Still, these are matters of opinion, and the book remains a wonderful treatment of Grant.  One of the things I like most is that is gives equal treatment to all aspects of Grant's life, not just the Civil War.  I learned a great deal about the Grant administration, which is usually regarded as one of the most corrupt in our nation's history.  That may be true, but McFeely convincingly argues that not all of it was Grant's fault.<BR> <BR>Overall, this is a great work on Grant. It has its flaws, but it still remains an adequate overview of this man's life, and should provide a good companion to Grant's personal memoirs.  I would recommend this book to anyone studying the Civil War, as it gives a great account of Grant's part, though it lacks details (which can be obtained in other studies of the War itself).  This would be a great addition to any Civil War library, as well as a	2003-03-25
US	42173554	R3PRIXX12BZAL5	0393323943	640099287	Grant	Books	4	29	36	N	N	An objective look at Grant--with all his many faces	William S. McFeely's book Grant attempts to be an objective look at the life of one of the most well-known of US generals.  It is a good account, full of details into Grant's life and quick to dispel many of the popular myths (both positive and negative) which have been spread about the general.  The treatment of the Civil War does not take up the majority of the work, but instead comprises a part of the career of a man who went from tanner to army man to President to writer, with various stints as a failed businessman and bored peacetime army officer in between.<BR> <BR>In his quest for objectivity, I think McFeely has overstepped his bounds just a bit.  He greatly downplays Lincoln's affection for Grant, claiming that the President was never quite sure if he could trust the general.   Early on, this may have been true, but the fact is that Lincoln many times defended Grant when rumors came to his ear, saying he liked Grant because \\"he fights.\\"  Also, McFeely calls Grant's wilderness campaign a \\"hideous disaster,\\" and insinuates that Grant did not care much about the colossal loss of life at Cold Harbor.  The overwhelming fact about the Wilderness Campaign is that it was, indeed, very costly in terms of human life.  Still, Grant got things done.  He defeated Lee--something McClellan and the other commanding officers could not do.  Grant did what he had to do, terrible though it was.<BR> <BR>Still, these are matters of opinion, and the book remains a wonderful treatment of Grant.  One of the things I like most is that is gives equal treatment to all aspects of Grant's life, not just the Civil War.  I learned a great deal about the Grant administration, which is usually regarded as one of the most corrupt in our nation's history.  That may be true, but McFeely convincingly argues that not all of it was Grant's fault.<BR> <BR>Overall, this is a great work on Grant. It has its flaws, but it still remains an adequate overview of this man's life, and should provide a good companion to Grant's personal memoirs.  I would recommend this book to anyone studying the Civil War, as it gives a great account of Grant's part, though it lacks details (which can be obtained in other studies of the War itself).  This would be a great addition to any Civil War library, as well as a good book for anyone studying American History as a whole.	2003-03-25
US	42173554	R37IXLJAEVO23I	0140424261	432838089	Paradise Lost (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Heaven and Hell	It is impossible to rate a classic like this.  This epic poem about the Garden of Eden spans everything from the Creation of the world to the war in Heaven to Satan's fall into Hell, and also touches on the entire history of Israel.  The poem is absolutely beautiful, and Adam and Eve are presented in such a way as to seem truly innocent before the fall and prone to sin after the fall (though they are also much wiser).  Everything, from Satan's temptation to Adam and Eve being consumed by lust immediately after eating the fruit, is portrayed in a very remarkable and real way.<BR> <BR>This work is supremely enlightening, especially for Christian readers.  Milton retains a touch of Classical mythology, yet integrates it in such a way as to fit into the Christian story.  With this poem, Milton successfully equated himself with such masters of the epic as Homer and Virgil (which was his aim, as declared in book one).  I cannot praise this epic or its sublime effect enough , so I will content myself by saying that this is one poem that everyone should read, for both its scholarly and its religious value.<br />&quot;The Mind is its own place, and in itself<BR>Can make a heav'n of hell, a hell of heav'n&quot; (book 1, 254-255)	2003-03-18
US	42173554	R31OSXTOLQWZJD	0446600253	58351726	Bless Me, Ultima	Books	4	26	30	N	N	An excellent story of faith and culture	Bless Me, Ultima is ultimately a novel about belief.  In Southwestern America, there are many systems of belief which compete for the devotion of an individual--Catholicism brought by the Spanish, polytheism which has existed for thousands of years, and the worship and adoration of nature itself.  This book is a story of a young man, Tony, and his quest for truth.  He encounters all of these systems of belief, and endures a great deal of suffering in his youth.  These experiences mold him, and the book focuses on his attempt to find the great truth amidst so much hardship and among so many types of faith.<BR> <BR>Anaya is a great storyteller, and this book certainly does not lack in action.  The supernatural element is very strong, and very compelling, and the novel leaves a strong impression of unity and harmony with nature, even in the face of a very real and very powerful evil.  This struggle of faith is very well represented in the book.<BR> <BR>I do have a few objections to the book.  First of all, Tony is a VERY young man, yet he seems to have a maturity level that few adults ever achieve.  He speaks very correctly, and ponders things which no seven year old kid has probably ever dreamed of.  Also, the actual story is sometimes a little shaky, such as when Narciso is murdered and the jury rules it a suicide (though they found no gun anywhere near where he was shot to death).  These are relatively small objections, though, and do not detract from a good book.<BR> <BR>This novel is worth reading, even if most of the characters ask questions that don't end with a question mark.  Hey, no writer is perfect.  It is certainly worth reading, and provides an interesting insight to the unique culture of the Southwest.	2003-03-15
US	42173554	R2AJZEZUG3QPNN	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	9	10	N	N	If you own one book on the Civil War, let it be this one	History of this quality is rare indeed.  James McPherson has somehow managed to treat the entire Civil War (a feat in itself), as well as its most prominent causes, in one volume, albeit a large one.  McPherson's treatment of the prewar nation and of the factors that led to eventual secession and war is very thorough, as is his portrayal of political, social, and military conditions throughout the war.  The section on reconstruction is scant, but this is because reconstruction lies without the scope of the book, and is supposed to be treated in another volume of the series this book was meant to contribute to.<BR> <BR>This book is phenomenal, a very objective look at the war between the states.  McPherson has somewhat northern sympathies, but these do not detract from the work in any way, and indeed are almost always part of any study of the Civil War (Shelby Foote seems inclined toward the South, for example). The one thing I wish is that the battles were treated with more detail, but this can hardly be expected in just one volume.  After all, the book covers \\"The Civil War Era,\\" as is title implies, and not necessarily just the war itself.  Because of this, there is a plethora of rich information of a political, economic, or social nature which contributed greatly to my understanding of the war and which are not likely to be found in many books focusing on just the war.<BR> <BR>Literally thousands of books have been written about the Civil War Era, but this has definitely got to be one of the best.  It is the best book on the subject I have read so far, and helped me immensely in my effort to understand the war between the states.  For a thorough and excellent treatment of this massive and formidable subject, give \\"The Battle Cry of Freedom\\" a try.  As far as a one-volume treatment of the war goes, you can't get much better than this.	2003-03-14
US	42173554	R32W4M5W98F789	0679772871	380732504	The Magic Mountain	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A very rewarding experience, but one you have to earn	It has been said that a classic is a work that everyone wants to have read, but which no one actually wants to read.  Now, having read this novel, I agree wholeheartedly with that statement.  I'm glad I read it, and was certainly thoroughly enlightened by its message and its incredible range of philosophical and intellectual topics, but I must admit that reading this book was a laborious process.<BR> <BR>The story is set in a saniorium in the Swiss Alps.  The institution serves as a microcosm of pre-World War I Europe, and the patients are representative of the various ruling classes which eventually brought about the conflict.  Two opposing philosophies, the \\"Asiatic\\" and the \\"European,\\" are represented in the persons of Settembrini and Naphta.  The book's central revolves around this, the parody of  European social structure before the great war.<BR> <BR>Of course, there is much, much more to the book that just this.  Everything from music to medicine is covered, and a great many intellectual debates are contained, spanning everything from monism and dualism to progress and the status quo.  There is also a very extensive reference to time.  In fact, Time seems to be a character of the novel, and a great deal of the book covers the way we perceive time and how it works in relation to us.<BR> <BR>I loved this novel, and feel like it is certainly worth having read.  As I said, however, it is a very difficult read (at least it was for me), and often I felt as if I were wading through material too deep for me to comprehend.  Mann was a brilliant individual, and deserved the Nobel Prize he won for literature.  This monumental work deserves to be called one of the `classics' of this century.  It is difficult at times, yes, but it is also supremely rewarding.	2003-03-12
US	42173554	R3VGDJ2CEP2NG7	0060924713	168238269	With Malice Toward None: A Life of Abraham Lincoln	Books	3	54	62	N	N	A decent portrayal of Lincoln, but not a great one	Abraham Lincoln is one of the most written-about men in history.  There are scores of biographies, profiles, analyses, everything to do with this great man.  Because of this, it is difficult to find a good, comprehensive work that details his life adequately and faithfully.  In this book, Stephen B. Oates gives a good representation of Lincoln, giving a pretty good account of his life and not trying to raise the man to deity (as others have done).  Despite this, however, there are several flaws in this book that make it only of average quality.<BR> <BR>Oates commits what I consider to be the unpardonable sin in biography--he attempts to get inside Lincoln's head.  One of the necessary qualities of a good biographer is that he or she should not try to psychoanalyze the subject, should not assume he knows what was going on inside the subject's head, and should certainly not embellish the account with a bunch of supposed conversations and feelings which are more the fabrication of the author than the feelings of the subject.  Oates breaks all of these rules.<br /> The most annoying thing about the book is that Oates will paraphrase what he thinks Lincoln said.  He may give a short quotation, but then he closes the quote and proceeds to adlib what he assumes Lincoln would say, speaking in the first person as though he were the President himself.  He uses the pronoun `I' in his own narrative, when he should be using `he.'  If you can get over Oates pretending to speak for Lincoln himself throughout most of the book, the rest of the account is pretty decent.  But I had a hard time getting past that.<BR> <BR>For a 400 or so page biography, this book covers the subject moderately well, though not excellently.  Many men, such as Jefferson Davis, Stonewall Jackson, or Admiral Farragut, are barely mentioned, as if Lincoln had nothing to do with them at all.  It would have added greatly to the account to have a more detailed description of the Civil War, and about Lincoln's counterparts in the South (such as Davis).  Still, this is a pretty good book, though far from definitive in any way.  With the mountains of work available on this great man, there's got to be something better out there.	2003-03-11
US	42173554	RXZI3G3TTBIVT	0060931949	418557027	House Made of Dawn (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A frustrating story, but a good one	There is a lot that can be said about 'House Made of Dawn.'  It is a very powerful story about the problems of Native American Relocation, and about the horrors of alcoholism and other vices which torment the Native Americans as a result of US reservation policy and, later, of attempted integration.  The story is compelling indeed, and leaves an impression.<br />That having been said, there are a lot of things that make this book almost impossible to read.  The narrative is broken and confused, and very frustrating (as has been mentioned by many other reviewers).  The prose, for the most part, is very eloquent, and some of the descriptions of the landscape and of animals is very beautiful.<br />Still, this novel remains a headache to read.  The story really isn't even resolved, and mountains of loose ends are left.  The story is very good, but plan on working to understand it.  I recommend 'House Made of Dawn' only if Native American writing interests you greatly or if you enjoy modernist writing.	2003-03-10
US	42173554	R1U9IMT51NG23J	0679433139	740001827	The Divine Comedy: Inferno; Purgatorio; Paradiso (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A great translation and good edition of Dante's masterpiece	There is nothing that can be said about the Divine Comedy that has not been said before, and certainly nothing I could say would be worthy of such a monumental achievement in Western Literature.  Instead, I would like to focus on the translation and edition of this work.  Allen Mandelbaum's translation of this great epic is marvelous.  He does an excellent job of maintaining the rhythm and fluency of the original, and leaves the reader with the same feel that I believe Dante himself intended for the poem.  Though I believe the notes in John Ciardi's translation more thorough, Mandelbaum nevertheless provides adequate documentation that helps understand the poem better.<br />The Everyman's version of this work is great--it's inexpensive, hardbound, and attractive.  The paper is not the best, but for the price, it is a great value.  And this version contains a good introduction and also a number of illustrations, believed to have been done in the fifteenth century, that depict various scenes in the poem and reflect the midieval feel.<br />While I am not an expert on Dante translations, I was very impressed by this version of Mandelbaum's, and would highly recommend this one-volume set (a great value) as an excellent addition to the library of anyone who wants to include such classics as these in his library but doesn't want to spend a fortune on them.	2003-02-24
US	42173554	R3NJ8CIM22C69E	0060653019	759467388	Miracles	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great discussion of miracles	In this work, the master of Christian apology tackles a difficult subject: miracles.  The question is easy enough--do miracles really occur?--but the answer is far more complex and difficult.  True to his style, Lewis picks apart the question and analyzes it with the scrutinizing eye of a skeptic who has seen the light and wants to help others see it too.  <BR> <BR>The scope, of course, goes far beyond miracles.  In analyzing the probability of such events, Lewis examines Pantheism vs. Christianity, and the idea of a Nature that is completely independent of any outside interference (even God`s).  His argument that the laws and `nature' of Nature are not violated by miracles is convincing, as is his argument that miracles are, in fact, necessary.  For Lewis, a miracle wrought by the Creator of mankind is really nothing extraordinary.  Some miracles, such as the water being turned into wine, simply skip a step or two.  Instead of water nourishing a vine that eventually produces grapes for wine, Christ merely eliminates the intermediary steps.  Other miracles, such as Christ's Resurrection, are simply a glance at what's to come, when everyone will be resurrected.  <BR> <BR>Whether or not you agree with Lewis, his argument is worth considering.  Like most of his work, this book is written for believer and skeptic alike, and provides a stimulating analysis of the probability of miracles occurring. This one belongs on the shelf of any Christian thinker, and will prove a stimulating read for students of philosophy as well.	2003-02-17
US	42173554	RJTY5T7HRE1EU	0060653027	338167986	C. S. Lewis Signature Classics: Mere Christianity, The Screwtape Letters, A Grief Observed, The Problem of Pain, Miracles, and The Great Divorce (Boxed Set)	Books	5	263	277	N	N	A must have for Christian thinkers	CS Lewis is one of the great modern Christian writers.  His writings are non-denominational, and can be appreciated by people of any faith.  This box set contains some (though not all!) of his best work.<br />'Mere Christianity' is a great introduction to Lewis's way of thinking.  Originally a series of radio addresses, this work details why Lewis is a Christian, and presents a case for Christianity that is compelling, to say the least.<br />'The Screwtape Letters' is my personal favorite.  It is fiction, written from the unique point of view of a master devil named Screwtape.  The master is trying to teach his nephew how to win souls for the devil through temptation.  This one will definitely change the way you look at sin.<br />'The Problem of Pain.' -- what is pain?  Well, Lewis tackles this subject here, and argues that God gives us pain because he loves us, and in order to mold us to his will.<br />'A Grief Observed' is a very intimate work, written after Lewis's wife died.  It is, quite simply, a very honest and unique look at grieving, which shows this master Christian apologist, who seems to always have all the answers, vulnerable and without a solution.<br />'The Great Divorce' is Lewis's 'Divine Comedy.'  This is a great look at Heaven and Hell, and presents the very compelling idea that people will go to Hell, not because they are forced to, but because they simply won't tolerate Heaven.<br />'Miracles' examines the question \\"can miracles occur?\\"  For Lewis, the answer is yes, and this book shows how the Creator of Nature and mankind can work miracles without interrupting the 'natural' flow of things.<br />Buying these books together in a set is a good way to get these six classics at a great price.  This is a wonderful starting point for anyone interested in Christian theology.  No one interested in Christian thinker should be without these masterpieces by CS Lewis.	2003-02-17
US	42173554	ROTR79EIK2EHK	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A western classic	This wonderful novel from Willa Cather is loosely based on a true story.   It is the tale of Father Jean Marie Latour, a Catholic Bishop from France who is sent to be the first Bishop in the newly annexed territory of New Mexico, in the late 1850s.  Latour and his companion, Father Vaillant, toil over the course of many years to build and develop the church there, strengthening the faith of Mexican and Indian alike.  Latour's labor of love becomes a great cathedral in Santa Fe, completed before his death, while Vaillant is sent to spend the rest of his days working among the miners at Pike's Peak and throughout Colorado.  <BR> <BR>This is a fairly simple tale of two very faithful men, whose love for their work created a legacy for each.  Despite its simplicity, however, this novel approaches epic proportions, as the two men work side by side to, literally, convert the world.  Over about thirty years and in an area covering thousands of square miles, these two Fathers fight almost alone to cleanse the church, purify the faith, and propagate their religion to everyone in the Diocese. <BR> <BR>This novel is a classic in Western literature, and definitely earns its place as one of the greatest stories of the American West.  It belongs in the library of any fan of Western literature, or even American literature in general.	2003-02-13
US	42173554	R3QZ6KQK11C29J	0141181737	282010593	Death in Venice and Other Tales	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Great stories with profound meaning, but a little unsettling	Thomas Mann was one of the most elegant writers of our century.  His prose dances off the page with a fluidity that is all too rare in today's world of literature, and his narrative style is always compelling.  This little volume is a collection of twelve short stories.  For the most part, the stories are enjoyable, though a couple of them are downright disturbing.  Many of them feature dejected and misunderstood people who are desperately struggling to be understood and accepted in the world, and a great deal of the main characters are artists. <BR> <BR>But there is much more here than just stories.  In fact, nearly all these tales contain deep and complicated questions.  What is art?  What constitutes legitimate art?  Is it true that true art brings pain, and that true artists can never live or enjoy life?  These and many other questions are considered throughout this work.<BR> <BR>As I said, some of these stories are a bit disturbing, and a couple are downright creepy.  I recommend proceeding with caution.  It might even be best to start with one of Mann's novels (like Buddenbrooks, for example).  Still, if you are willing to brave this one out, it promises to be a richly rewarding experience, both in its quality of narrative and in the message that each of these short tales is meant to convey.	2003-02-11
US	42173554	R3RMOMEDU0GRMY	0253203120	724393830	Crow Killer: The Saga of Liver-Eating Johnson (Midland Book)	Books	3	59	76	N	N	A lot of fun to read, but...	This little volume of what professes to be pure history contains the exploits, along with a good many stories that probably aren't true, of the Mountain Man John Johnson.  Some of these stories are almost definitely true--Johnson's battle with the twenty Crow warriors over fourteen years, for example.  Still, some of these tales are more than likely fictitious, made-up accounts passed on among the last Mountain Men until Thorp stumbled upon them.<BR> <BR>For sources, Thorp has few, and they are second or third-hand at best.  Most of them were old men who were trying to remember stories or `things they'd heard' a half-century before.  Even Thorp's principal source, \\"White-eye\\" Anderson, was getting most of his information third-hand.  Thorp proclaims his source as impeccable, but even he can't help but include, in the course of the narrative, that White-eye had a famous capacity for \\"story-telling.\\"  <BR> <BR>So why give this any stars at all?  Well, it IS fun to read.  A lot of these stories are just plain entertaining, and Johnson's war against the Crows is based in fact (in fact, this account is probably fairly accurate).  No matter what, you can get a good look at the late Mountain Man era by reading about Johnson (and his companions') exploits.  Of course, sneaking up on Indians and massacring them does get quite dull even after less than two hundred pages, so fortunately this book isn't longer.<BR> <BR>All in all, this is an entertaining read.  It isn't written very well, and the author's attempts at dialect are horrendous, but it is still a lot of fun.  Just bear in mind that this little book, history though it proclaims to be, is probably as much Mountain Man myth as anything.	2003-02-05
US	42173554	R1JCVYPG8TG2FA	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An excellent translation of this classic epic	What can be said about this classic masterpiece in epic poetry?  Virgil clearly emanated the Homeric style of epic, and his debt to Homer is very apparent in this work.  Still, it retains a style and flavor all its own.  The poem tells the story of Aeneas, the Trojan hero from the Iliad who survived to found the Roman race in Italy.  The first half of the poem are his adventures in reaching Italy (comparable to the Odyssey), and the second half deal with the war that results from his landing there (comparable to the Iliad).<BR> <BR>It is said that Virgil wrote this poem at least partially in hopes of fostering the national sentiment of the Romans, of making them proud of their heritage, and of uniting them in a common ancestry.  His motives are very clear--there are a number of references to the future glory of Rome, and various visions of the leaders and generals who would bring Rome her greatest glory.  Interestingly, this poem was never completed, and Virgil, on his deathbed, asked that it be destroyed.  It was preserved, however, by Augustus, and so we have it in its mostly finished form today.  <BR> <BR>This translation by Fitzgerald is excellent.  Like his translations of Homer, Fitzgerald's Aeneid flows very smoothly, and stays true to the feel of the original.  Also, there is a postscript in the back detailing both the history of the times, and various events in Virgil's life.  This postscript is very helpful in understanding the world in which the poet lived. <BR> <BR>There is also a glossary of names in the back, very useful for keeping all the people, places, and deity straight.  All in all, this version of The Aenied is very satisfying.  I highly recommend it.	2003-02-04
US	42173554	R3K29UVIR1UBIS	0618154639	7737472	The Big Sky	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A great, and fairly accurate, story of the mountain men	This is historical fiction as it should be.  All the main characters are fictional, and actual people (like Jim Bridger and Jedediah Smith) are either only mentioned in passing or play a small enough role so as to not conflict with actual history.  In fact, the whole story is fictitious, and only the setting and some of the main events are real.  But that is what gives this story its power--the ability to see, through the eyes of the characters, the American west as it would have looked through the eyes of a mountain man.<br /> The novel centers on Boone Caudill, a young Kentuckian who sets out for the west and becomes a true mountain man.  The story follows Boone through thirteen years of Indian fights, beaver trapping, and winters of near-starvation.  Boone, along with his companions, lives a life that is representative of the one many true mountain men actually led, and there is very little attempt made by Guthrie to romanticize it.  The life was a hard one, a cruel one, and Guthrie does not make it seem more glamorous than it actually would have been.  Despite this, however, we can still feel Boone's pull toward the West, and we are able to feel longing for the solitude of the mountains through his eyes.<br /> This novel is, for the most part, pretty historically accurate.  The Rendezvous of  1837, the smallpox epidemic among the Blackfeet that same year, the greenhorns swarming to Oregon--all these are things that are very real.  These events are woven nicely within the narrative, giving the reader a true feel of the disappearing west such as could scarcely be gleaned from a history text.<br /> Granted, this book should be taken with a grain of salt.  It is not a romanticized view of the west, but then it is not a historical text either.  It would be wrong to see it as anything more than one man's interpretation of how it was to be a mountain man.  Still, for all that, it is a wonderful and compelling story, very well-told.  And don't be surprised if you learna little bit of history while reading it.	2003-02-01
US	42173554	R1SUTWAHYOYCV3	0679417370	159856880	Buddenbrooks: The Decline of a Family (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A beautifully written, very readable classic.	Buddenbrooks is superbly written, splendidly elegant fiction of the best kind.  The novel follows the life of a family (the Buddenbrook family) for the course of about fifty years, and outlines all the various triumphs, struggles, failures, and heartaches that accompany this upper middle-class family.  Much of the action centers around the family firm, run by the eldest male.  This firm is the source of the Buddenbrooks' prestige--it is because of the firm, and its blossoming business, that allows the family to travel in the high circle of their community.<BR> <BR>Essentially, this book is about the decline of the family (hence the subtitle).  But the Buddenbrooks' fall is not abrupt--their decline is not steady.  Divorces, bad business deals, and bankruptcies are offset by profitable marriages, years of prosperity, and various other triumphs.  The decline is detailed mostly in the character of Thomas, the third consul mentioned in the book.  Through him, and his siblings as well, we are able to see the struggle to maintain dignity, the fight for a prosperous family to save face in any circumstance.  And, more than that, we see Thomas being trapped, trapped in a lifestyle and a society in which he is not allowed to relax even for a moment, lest everything come crashing down around him.<BR> <BR>Thomas Mann is a brilliant author (he wrote this when he was 25!), a wonderful stylist whose elegant prose and smoothly flowing narrative are the real treat of this work.  For an entertaining and stimulating read, give Buddenbrooks a try.  You won't be disappointed.	2003-01-28
US	42173554	R1A7GD5P6XIUUP	0060652969	21086024	The Problem of Pain	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A simple, satisfying solution to a complex problem	CS Lewis was a master at making complicated theological questions make sense.  In this short work, he tackles what is perhaps one of his most difficult subjects yet.  Why does pain exist?  If there is a God, and he is benevolent, why does he allow his creatures to feel both physical and mental anguish?  The answer, as Lewis sees it, is simple, though the explanation for it may not be.  Because he loves us.<BR> <BR>In this book, Lewis shows how God molds us through our afflictions, and how he actually works toward our greater good by allowing us to experience pain and misfortune, that we may be more willing to give of our own free will back to him.  It is through pain, says Lewis, that God can guide us back to Heaven.<BR> <BR>Lewis continues the argument made in many others of his books: that no one goes to Heaven or Hell without choosing to.  God guides us by allowing us to experience pain, but it is our choice whether we choose to submit to His will or not.  And no one will go to Hell without having first refused the helping hand.  As Lewis says, the gates of Hell will be locked from the inside.  <BR> <BR>This is some of the simplest, yet most beautiful theology around, expounded by a man who's humility made him always refer to himself as a `layman.'  If you're a fan of other Lewis works, pick this one up--you won't be disappointed.  And if you're just looking for some good Christian reading material, with great insight, then you won't want to miss CS Lewis's the Problem of Pain.	2003-01-27
US	42173554	R1HVPG1D0DK356	061812764X	396726984	J.R.R. Tolkien: Author of the Century	Books	5	41	41	N	N	See why Tolkien was the author of the century	In this excellent volume of criticism on Tolkien's work, Tom Shippey seeks to explain just what made Tolkien tick, and what made his stories the way they are.  Tolkien shunned the idea of a biography, but I think this book is probably more along the lines of what he would have agreed to, since he believed that the best way to get a look inside an author's life was to examine his works.  This book does just this.<BR> <BR>The bulk of this book, of course, centers around Tolkien's stories of Middle-Earth: The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion.  Shippey attempts to explain why Tolkien wrote these stories the way he did, and the result is very insightful.  Shippey explains why he wrote archaically, how the more modern hobbit society, with its postal system and manners, fits in with the rest of Middle-Earth, and how to classify the various cultures and nations (like Rohan and Gondor) appearing in the works, to name a few.  The rest of the book deals with Tolkien's other, lesser-known works, including the two semi-autobiographical ones.  For true fans of Tolkien, the criticisms of these shorter works are an invaluable resource.<BR> <BR>All in all, this book is very insightful--there is definitely a great deal to be learned about Tolkien's works from a man who succeeded him to his Oxford chair, and who understands Tolkien's professional field as well.  If you want to truly understand Tolkien, this is a book worth reading.	2003-01-27
US	42173554	R2CWTCLZ9SX03	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Heaven or Hell?  The choice is ours.	The perfect blend of logic, common-sense, and insight, the Great Divorce is typical CS Lewis.  It is a masterpiece of Christian thinking, even by Lewis's standards, and ranks among his best in my opinion.  This short work of fiction seeks to explain why some people go to heaven and others go to hell.  Lewis's thesis is essentially this:  those who are in heaven are there because they want to be, and those who are in hell are there because they want to be there, too.  In other words, Divine judgment does not send individuals screaming down to hell--in fact, they go there themselves.  <BR> <BR>Lewis's guide in the story, who just happens to be George MacDonald, tells him that most people have the attitude best expressed by Milton in Paradise Lost: \\"Better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven.\\"  According to Lewis, it is pride and selfishness that keep people from wanting to go to heaven.  In the story, a number of \\"ghosts\\" are brought to the outskirts of heaven by bus, yet almost none of them wants to actually enter heaven when given the chance.  They all have some reason why heaven isn't good enough, why they shouldn't go there.  In other words, they willfully go back to hell.<BR> <BR>Of course, this story rocks the traditional views of the separation of the good and the evil, but Lewis presents his thesis in such an applicable story that it makes one stop and think.  Why would a selfish, self-centered person want to be in heaven, anyway?  What would they do?  In Lewis's mind, there is no `marriage' between heaven and hell, because the two (and those who occupy them) want to keep as much distance between them as possible.  Hence the title.<BR> <BR>As I said, I think this is one of Lewis's best.  It definitely got me thinking.  This is a great book, suitable for young adults and adults alike, that will certainly expand your mind on how we choose to live in our own personal heaven or hell.	2003-01-21
US	42173554	R16AVZSU90ACS	0374525749	627065254	The Odyssey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great translation of a classic	Unlike many epic poems (the Iliad, Beowulf), in which the bulk of the story focuses on the adventures and departure from home of the hero, the Odyssey focuses on going home.  This theme of returning is one generally given scant attention in other epics--the homeward journey is usually mentioned briefly at the end to sort of wrap up the story.  Not so with the Odyssey.<br /><br />Of course, Odysseus's ultimate test comes in ridding his house of the suitors, and it seems as if everything else is preparatory to that end.  With all the hardships he suffered at Troy, with all the difficulties in sailing for home, there remains one test for \\"the master tactician:\\" that of cleansing his own home.<br /><br />It goes without saying that the Odyssey is a classic masterpiece, a wonderful story of a man fighting for survival and wanting to regain his lost life.  This translation by Robert Fitzgerald is excellent.  Like his translation of the Iliad, Fitzgerald does a wonderful job here of retaining much of the feeling of the poem.  If you've never read this classic, its time you did.  The Odyssey is captivating, from beginning to end.	2003-01-21
US	42173554	R20VZS6MZWJT9	0812966120	817315964	Riders of the Purple Sage (Modern Library Classics)	Books	2	8	16	N	N	A classic?	I enjoy a good western.  I understand that the good guys are often too good to be true, and the bad guys are as bad as can be.  Still, I was very put off by this \\"classic.\\"  As I fought to stay awake through over 250 pages of the words 'purple' and 'sage' being used in various ways, I couldn't help but wonder what all the hype is about this book.<br />Basically, it's this:  the good guys are Venters and Lassiter, two practically superhuman cowboys who can do anything--head off a stampede with a blind horse, take 5 bullets and still be able to walk all day, and shoot a man from a horse on the dead run, while on a running horse himself. <br />The bad guys fall into two groups.  The Mormons, the evil, black-hearted women stealers, polygamists every one (though the heroine's father seems not to have been one, though he was a Mormon leader), and the cattle rustlers, who are bad, but not as bad as the Mormons, because the rustlers are \\"honest thieves.\\"<br />The action is pretty dull, the romance is nothing short of corny, and each page is dripping with sappy descriptions of landscape.  In short, be forewarned.  If you want to read this book, fine, but be prepared for Grey to spend more time developing the color of the sage than developing all the characters combined.  There are much better Westerns out there.	2003-01-19
US	42173554	RJL1UZM10UMRW	0679410759	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Some of the best stuff ever written	What can be said about this masterpiece that has not been said already?  There is good reason behind measuring all epic poetry up against the standard defined by Homer in his two great works, the Iliad and The Odyssey.  From Achilles' heated argument with Agamemnon over his slave-girl to the moving final scene of Priam begging for a lost body, this work is absolutely phenomenal.  I cannot find even the words to praise it enough.<br /><br />The translation done here by Robert Fitzgerald is excellent.  The verse flows smoothly, the epithets are well-placed and not cumbersome, and the action is crisp and pure.  Fitzgerald did a wonderful job of this translation, preserving (in my mind, though I've never read the Greek) the integrity of this poem very well.  This great epic should be required reading for everyone.	2003-01-13
US	42173554	R1GXI6GPV47C61	0451526732	453970176	Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, An American Slave (Signet Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	An essential American autobiography	As the title implies, this short work is the narrative of Frederick Douglass, an escaped slave.  He wrote it by himself, a significant fact in that his prose is so eloquent and his pathos so powerful that it seems impossible for a former slave to have composed it.  In this short autobiography, Douglass recounts his life as a slave, and details some of the horrors and atrocities perpetuated on slaves by their fiendish overseers, most of whom Douglass portrays as downright evil.  More than just a narrative of his life, Douglass also gives an account of how the desire to be free grew and began to burn within his bosom, and how he grew to hate that horrible institution.  Above all, this is a story of a slave learning that he is, in fact, a human being.<br /><br />The significance of this book cannot be overestimated.  In it, Douglass effectively dispels a number of popular myths about slaves and slaveholders, and forever changes the way the reader (especially one who lived while slavery still existed) looks at slavery.  The theme of this book is very simple: slavery is wrong.  It is evil, it is cruel, and, despite what many people thought at the time, the slaves know how cruel it is.  Douglass cites several examples of the horrible treatment slaves received, one of them being separation of families.  \\"It is a common custom...to part children from their mothers at a very early age\\" So it was with Douglass and his own mother.<br /><br />Douglass writes in a very eloquent style, and this contributes to the power of this work.  Many people who thought blacks were inferior in intelligence were shown to be sadly mistaken with the coming of Frederick Douglass, a man both educated and refined.  It may be said that the book is not entirely fair, for it is decidedly anti-slavery, but it is undoubtedly true for most cases nonetheless.  Most of the overseers in Douglass's narrative are demonic and sadistic, but when a good overseer comes along (such as Freeland), he is fair in his treatment of him.<br /><br />One can imagine the fuel this book gave to the abolitionist fire, and it is not difficult to see why Douglass had such an impact on both North and South.  This is, in my opinion, a definitive work, in that it shows the horrible institution of slavery in all its barbaric nature, and does it from a firsthand point of view, that of a former slave.  This book was a tremendous contribution, both for the light it shed on slavery in general, and for proving that blacks were not intellectually inferior by nature, but instead were \\"transformed into...brute[s]\\" at the hands of their overseers.<br /><br />This is a great book, essential for anyone wanting to study the Civil War era or wanting to gain a firmer understanding of slavery.ent of him.  <BR> <BR>One can imagine the fuel this book gave to the abolitionist fire, and it is not difficult to see why Douglass had such an impact on both North and South.  This is, in my opinion, a definitive work, in that it shows the horrible institution of slavery in all its barbaric nature, and does it from a firsthand point of view, that of a former slave.  This book was a tremendous contribution, both for the light it shed on slavery in general, and for proving that blacks were not intellectually inferior by nature, but instead were \\"transformed into...brute[s]\\" at the hands of their overseers. <BR> <BR>This is a great book, essential for anyone wanting to study the Civil War era or wanting to gain a firmer understanding of slavery.	2003-01-13
US	42173554	R2Q75Q6JB7AL0C	0898704448	236877231	The Everlasting Man	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Christianity's place in history	In this work by a great author of the early twentieth century, the story of Christ is examined closely, and his place in history evaluated.  Chesterton argues that the Christian myth is different from other myths, most obviously because he declares it is true, but also for other reasons which he details throughout this work.  In a painfully brief (as he himself admits) summary of the history of `historic' mankind, Chesterton evaluates the evolution of pagan thought and outlines what, in his mind, prepared the world for the coming of the Son of Man.<BR> <BR>Chesterton's case is very strong.  His thesis, essentially, is that the Christian \\"myth\\" is unfit to be held side by side with other myths, both because it is more believable and because it is more fantastic.  With his daunting command of words and argument, Chesterton presents the case that Christianity is different because it is true, and for that reason it has not passed, as other systems of belief have.<BR> <BR>This book is most notable for the impact it had on CS Lewis, a great admirer of Chesterton.  Lewis owed much of his belief, even part of his conversion, to Chesterton's work, and this one in particular.  Fans of CS Lewis will enjoy this book, though they should be forewarned that it is not a case strictly for Christianity.  Chesterton was a Catholic, and he does not stop with arguing for Christianity, but rather continues by arguing for the Catholic faith as well.  I think he could have reached a broader audience by remaining aloof from denominational dispute, and for that reason I gave it four stars.  Still, this is an excellent, thought-provoking work worthy of any student of Christian apology's attention.	2003-01-13
US	42173554	R3LTGKR1HROZCP	0394740890	754803445	Gilgamesh	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great translation of a beautiful epic	This is one of the oldest known heroic poems, with some versions dating back to the Old Babylonian age about 2000 BC.  What survives of the twelve tablets that make up the Gilgamesh epic tells a story about a king of Uruk, named Gilgamesh, who goes on an epic search for immortality with his companion Enkidu which leads him through many adventures and eventually takes him to a Noah-like sage who tells him the story of the flood.<BR> Much of the twelve tablets on which the poem were written has been lost, but enough survives (through various copies and versions of the work) to be able to piece it together into a fairly coherent form.  Gardner and Maier do an excellent job here of presenting the text, of translating it in a reliable and enjoyable manner, and of providing sufficient notes (actually, over half this book is notes!) to give the reader a very good feel for this beautiful poem.<BR> This is an epic in many senses of the word, but it differs somewhat in scope from the Greek and Medieval heroic poems that we have.  Still, for fans of the epic, for those interested in Homer, Virgil, Dante, or Milton, Gilgamesh provides an interesting look at an early Babylonian/Sumerian text.	2003-01-01
US	42173554	R1LNI12XNOG2FD	0618057021	551242033	J.R.R. Tolkien: A Biography	Books	5	59	64	N	N	Meet the man behind the masterpiece	Considering the fact that Tolkien abhorred the idea of someone writing a biography on him, considering the fact he thought it ridiculous that someone should read a biography on a writer, and considering his sentiment that the best biography on an author is his works of fiction, calling this book the `authorized' account is pretty presumptuous.  <BR> Still, Carpenter manages the subject very well, chronicling Tolkien's life from his early years throughout his life, with a special amount of attention given to the period in which he was creating his `hobbit' stories.   This is as much a look inside Tolkien's literary mind as a look at his life, and one of the most fascinating aspects of this work is that the reader is able to follow the development of Tolkien's creative genius and see the very elements that inspired him to write his masterpieces \\"The Hobbit,\\" \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" and \\"The Silmarillion.\\"<BR> For his biography, Carpenter was able to meet personally with Tolkien before his death.  He also had full access to all of Tolkien's papers and letters at Oxford.  He was able to talk with many of Tolkien's friends and family.  Because of this, Carpenter is able to present a very accurate, extremely reliable, and very personal biography.  He is very fair with his subject, and treats Tolkien neither as a deity nor an eccentric old man.  The man who created Middle Earth was human, and Carpenter captures this brilliantly.  <BR> This work on Tolkien is very highly recommended to any fan of his work who wants a peek inside the life of this remarkable man.	2003-01-01
US	42173554	RJN3FDVX02RUS	0887291104	92632202	Langenscheidt's Pocket Dictionary Portugese (Langenscheidt's Pocket Dictionaries) (Portuguese Edition)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not for the beginner	I got this dictionary when I was first learning how to speak Portuguese.  At the time when I needed it the most (when I did not have a large vocabulary), this dictionary proved to be utterly disappointing.  It simply doesn't contain much in the way of simple words and phrases that a beginner is bound to need.<br />I shelved this dictionary, and only began to pick it up again after I was fluent.  Since then, it has proved useful, containing many more difficult and obscure words that you are likely to forget if you don't practice your Portuguese too much.  I use it now fairly often when I write letters, and it has (finally) proved worth it.<br />If you're a beginner, or someone who is seeking to learn Portuguese, I recommend you get another dictionary, as this one will prove mostly useless to you.  On the other hand, if you're already fluent, and for some reason you don't want a more comprehensive dictionary, pick this one up.  It is durable, and it is pocket sized.  It's just not comprehensive.	2002-12-30
US	42173554	R28H15KYMEB1FC	0385495404	556829614	The First American: The Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An extraordinary book on an extraordinary man	Few (if any) Americans ever did more for the good of their country and the world than did Benjamin Franklin.  Born of humble station in Boston in the early eighteenth century, Franklin overcame enormous odds and, through his diligence, ambition, and sheer genius, established himself as the most prominent of Philadelphia printers while in his twenties.  This incredible man would later go on to achieve world renown for his work in electricity and other fields of science, as well as in politics and many other aspects of life.  Franklin established respect for American thinkers in the eyes of the rest of the world, and his story is an amazing one.<BR> <BR>Brands does a great job of narrating Franklin's story.  This volume is large, over 700 pages, and at times it seems this is almost not enough to accurately characterize this remarkable man.  But Brands skillfully handles the most important aspects of Franklin's life, and pays special attention to his many public services and the actions that eventually led him to play such a great part in the American revolutionary cause.<BR> <BR>This book is not perfect -- the author sometimes tends to assume he knows what Franklin was thinking -- but aside from the psychoanalysis this work is very good.  I believe this is as thorough a treatment of Benjamin Franklin as can be expected in one volume, and I highly recommend this work.  Franklin's is a life that everyone should be at least somewhat acquainted with.	2002-12-27
US	42173554	R30Z45RXGJJ5NW	094089548X	666996216	Christian Mythmakers: C.S. Lewis, Madeleine L'Engle, J.R.R. Tolkien, George Madonald, G.K. Chesterton, and Others	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Great literary criticism of the Christian &quot;Mythmakers&quot;	In this relatively short work, Rolland Hein manages to successfully review and critique the works of many Christian authors who created mythological stories.  The critiques, ranging from Bunyan's &quot;Pilgrim's Progress&quot; to Tolkien's &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; are arranged chronologically, beginning with Dante and ending with contemporary 'mythmakers.'<br />The reviews not only cover the works and the Christian elements in them, they also provide useful information and good insight into the lives of these men and women.  Quotes are presented, giving the authors' views on the art of Christian mythmaking and their attitudes toward the various ways we can discover truth.<br />This book is excellent.  It is very well-written, and thoughtfully organized.  The insight it provides on such authors as Tolkien, Lewis, and MacDonald is invaluable.  If you are interested in one or more of these authors, get this book--it may help you to better understand them or even discover new authors and new worlds to explore.	2002-12-18
US	42173554	RMFRX4U8FQNHQ	0517662043	925062005	They Called Him Stonewall: A Life of Lt. General TJ Jackson, CSA	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A capable, though not outstanding, work on Jackson	Certainly one of the most ingenious commanders of the Civil War, Thomas \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson provides an interesting profile for a biographer.  He was a brilliant commander, and led his troops on grinding marches for days at a time in order to secure gallant victories in the face of insurmountable odds.  When he died Robert E. Lee lamented that he had lost his right arm, and indeed Jackson's loss was deeply felt by the Confederacy.  <BR> <BR>There was more to this man, however, than just the brilliant military strategist.  He was also a devout man of God, humble and ever-willing to submit to the Divine will and give Him all the glory for his many victories.  Behind General Jackson there was Jackson the believer, and the latter is just as much a part of Stonewall's history as the former.<BR> <BR>Burke Davis does a decent job of narrating Jackson's life, though not extraordinary.  The battle sequences are vague and difficult to follow, and the maps provide no assistance whatsoever.  Davis frequently assumes he knows what Jackson was thinking, and often tells us just how Jackson felt about something.   Sources are not cited, and we are left to wonder how much of the story is actually based on fact, and how much on speculation.<BR> <BR>Davis's biography is satisfactory, but it does not do Stonewall's military actions justice.  Some of the maneuvers he made and the victories he had were downright brilliant, and Davis leaves much to be desired in this respect.  Still, the biography gives a decent portrait of Jackson's life.  There are many biographies on Stonewall Jackson out there, and I would recommend this one only if none of the others are available (as in my city's library).	2002-12-14
US	42173554	R2EPZZ8SJ6XS3A	0517662043	925062005	They Called Him Stonewall: A Life of Lt. General TJ Jackson, CSA	Books	3	12	14	N	N	A capable, though not outstanding, work on Jackson	Certainly one of the most ingenious commanders of the Civil War, Thomas \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson provides an interesting profile for a biographer.  He was a brilliant commander, and led his troops on grinding marches for days at a time in order to secure gallant victories in the face of insurmountable odds.  When he died Robert E. Lee lamented that he had lost his right arm, and indeed Jackson's loss was deeply felt by the Confederacy.  <BR> <BR>There was more to this man, however, than just the brilliant military strategist.  He was also a devout man of God, humble and ever-willing to submit to the Divine will and give Him all the glory for his many victories.  Behind General Jackson there was Jackson the believer, and the latter is just as much a part of Stonewall's history as the former.<BR> <BR>Burke Davis does a decent job of narrating Jackson's life, though not extraordinary.  The battle sequences are vague and difficult to follow, and the maps provide no assistance whatsoever.  Davis frequently assumes he knows what Jackson was thinking, and often tells us just how Jackson felt about something.   Sources are not cited, and we are left to wonder how much of the story is actually based on fact, and how much on speculation.<BR> <BR>Davis's biography is satisfactory, but it does not do Stonewall's military actions justice.  Some of the maneuvers he made and the victories he had were downright brilliant, and Davis leaves much to be desired in this respect.  Still, the biography gives a decent portrait of Jackson's life.  There are many biographies on Stonewall Jackson out there, and I would recommend this one only if one better is not available (as in my city's library).	2002-12-14
US	42173554	R368E97EFDCK8P	0393970140	322759148	Oroonoko (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Very moving	This is a classic story about the horrors of slavery. I've heard this compared to &quot;Uncle Tom's Cabin,&quot; but I don't think that's an accurate comparison.  The story is about Orookono, an African prince who is deprived of his true love by his grandfather, the king.  He is betrayed and sold into slavery, and happens to encounter his lost love in the New World, in the British colony of Suriname.  The valiant prince (now called 'Caesar' by his overseers) tries to gain freedom for his wife and family, but in vain.  If there is a story that does justice to the horrors of slavery, this is it.<br />I don't think this is the typical slave narrative because Orookono is a prince.  Even the overlords treat him that way, and he seems more a victim of cruel fate than of slavery.  Still, this valiant, brave-hearted soul is subjected and finally overcome by the cruel actions of the English colonists.<br />This story was written at the time the novel was first coming into being in England.  It is revolutionary, and becomes even more so when considered that it came from the pen of a woman.  Aphra Behn was one of the first major female English writers, and is arguably the best of her time.  This is is great (short) novel, definitely well-worth your time.	2002-12-06
US	42173554	R2D0VB14VCH5MD	0393947769	401809544	The Norton Anthology of English Literature, Vol. 2	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A great anthology of English Literature	I had to buy this book for two of my English Literature survey courses.  I'm sure that most people who buy this volume do the same--they buy it because they have to.  Still, it is an excellent volume and a very thorough survey of English Literature, from the middle ages on down to the nineteenth century.<br />Highlights from this volume include Seamus Heaney's exceptional translation of Beowulf (in its entirety), Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, many selections from the Canterbury Tales, lots of Shakespeare, and Milton's masterpiece Paradise Lost, reprinted in full.<br />As I said before, many who buy this volume will do so because they have to.  Still, I think most people will find this anthology to be one they will not be selling back at the end of the semester.  I know I'll definitely be keeping mine.  This is a great place to start a study of English Literature.	2002-12-04
US	42173554	RQRGP7XL0SN4N	0964252406	938983568	The Other Eminent Men of Wilford Woodruff	Books	2	14	20	N	N	Such a great subject...	I was very intrigued by the subject of this book.  I really wanted to learn about all these men, and thought that this work would supply me with a basic overview of the lives of these great men.  I was wrong.  Not only is the writing very poor (more on that in a minute), there is very little historical value in this book.  Some of the assertions the author makes are nearly impossible to swallow.  An example:  Anderson describes the meeting of Samuel Johnson and Joshua Reynolds as \\"one of the cornerstones of English history.\\"  I'm sorry, but that's a little much for me.<br />Anderson seems quick to add any little rumor or hearsay as fact in the biographies.  To me, saying something is \\"looked upon today\\" or \\"said to\\" or \\"known as\\" is not very convincing.  I'm sure there are mountains of speculation about most of these men, but I don't need to know about them.  Instead of saying a man was the \\"father\\" of this science or that industry, show me how and why.  Then I'll look upon it my own way.<br />One of the most frustrating things about this book for me was the allusion to so many parts of history the average person is not familiar with.  Most, if not all, of these biographies make mention of battles, revolutions, sculptures, people, or events, yet many of these things, important as they may be in the person's life, are not explained.  This is very difficult for me--knowing the name of a particular event without knowing anything about it is essentially meaningless.<BR> <BR>As I said before, the writing is poor, both grammatically and organizationally.  It is always difficult to read a poorly-edited book, and this is no exception.  The organization is annoying in that the biographies are ordered in a way that is downright confusing--Anderson frequently jumps from one period of someone's life to the next and back again in the course of a page.  This makes it very hard to follow the point.<BR> <BR>I gave the book two stars because the subject is great, and Anderson obviously dedicated herself very much to it.  For this, she deserves to be commended.  I really admire her zeal for the work--I just don't feel it's very informative.  If you want an interesting look at the men concerned in this book, I suggest you get a list and look for individual biographies on them.	2002-12-01
US	42173554	R22IK4RTLBUX7Z	0130289418	828905966	Concise Anthology of American Literature	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A pretty good anthology	Let's face it, most people won't be buying this volume by choice--they'll buy it for a class.  Still, it's good to know what you're getting into.  This is a pretty good anthology of American literature, starting all the way back with Native American myths and Columbus's journals and continuing through Puritan, Enlightenment, Transcendentalist, Romantic, and modern periods of literature in America.<br />The introductions to the pieces are good--as good or better than Norton's--and the selections themselves are generally good.  Still, though, there are a few notable things missing, but that is to be expected in any compendium, I suppose.  <br />One of the highlights of this volume is the full reprints of Benjamin Franklin's Autobiography and Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn.  If you have to buy this book, it should be useful and may even be worth keeping around after the class is over.  I know I'm going to keep mine.	2002-11-28
US	42173554	RPTUELET3HGZT	025200762X	309125544	Carthage Conspiracy: The Trial of the Accused Assassins of Joseph Smith	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A great, objective legal history	First of all, this is not a Mormon-propaganda book.  It is a scholarly work, a study of law.  It is an account of the legal proceedings that took place as a result of the murders of Joseph and Hyrum Smith at Carthage, Illinois in June of 1844.  This book makes no attempt to convert anyone to Mormonism--in fact it doesn't even focus on the Smiths.  Instead, it critically examines the trial of five men accused of participating in the murder of these two men.<br />I cannot praise this book enough for its objectivity.  The authors remain completely aloof from bias, and focus instead on an analysis of the trial.  One should not read this book with the intent of learning every detail about the Smiths' murder.  For those interested in knowing about the legal proceedings that followed their deaths, however, this book will be a valuable tool.<br />This book is an invaluable resource--it unearths many facts and circumstances that I have not encountered anywhere else, and manages to make sense of just what happened inside the Carthage jail on that fateful summer day.  I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Mormon history.	2002-11-24
US	42173554	R1RIQMD2R3QOWF	0970800894	632288034	The Missouri Persecutions	Books	3	5	7	N	N	A good, basic history of the Mormon church in Missouri	It may seem absurd for someone as interested as I am in Mormon history to give a book by BH Roberts only three stars.  I have my reasons, though.  Roberts was a very prominent LDS historian, and produced a lot of good works in his time.  This one fell short for me, however.<br />The history is, for the most part, well-written, and the sympathies towards the Mormons should be anticipated.  The problem I have with the book is that it only scratches the surface--it doesn't give much detail.  Many times it refers in passing to very important events (especially relating to excommunication of prominent Church leaders), and does little to actually present the history of these events.<br />I can understand Roberts' logic in this--he did not want to call a lot of attention to the men who either left or where expelled from the church.  Still, though, the history is very incomplete without a full treatment of all the events.<br />Despite this flaw (and it is a sizeable one) I found this an entertaining volume.  It presents a good, basic history of the period in which the Mormon church occupied Missouri.  It also includes excerpts from the histories of each of the counties that dealt with the church during this time.  This is great because it presents the conflict from the points of view of the native Missourians.  Some counties are sympathetic, most are not.<br />For anyone who does not study a lot of church history I highly recommend this work--it will give you the basic knowledge you need without bogging you down with details.  But, for anyone wishing to dig deeper, I think this book can only serve as a complement to a more in-depth study.	2002-11-24
US	42173554	R4ZZDT4JKURN9	0618001026	869242520	This Realm of England 1399-1688 (History of England, vol. 2)	Books	2	8	19	N	N	Nothing interesting here	What can I say?  I wasn't impressed by this so-called &quot;textbook.&quot;  It doesn't seem matter-of-fact enough to be an actual textbook, yet isn't interesting enough to be considered a decent historical work.  There is surprisingly little detail about the events here depicted.<br />I had to use this book for a class, but I found that I got about ten times more out of my instructor's lectures than this text.  There really is very little to boast about here--it's basically just a mundane, watered-down history of England.<br />I hate to say it, but I was disappointed.  I haven't studied much of English history, but even my limited knowledge was enough to know that this book is but a scratch on the surface.  If you have to have this for a class, there's not much you can do, but if you're looking for a good history of England, keep looking.	2002-11-22
US	42173554	R1TD8M9D278E64	0030317169	397820615	Physics for Scientists and Engineers, Chapters 1-46 (with Study Tools CD-ROM)	Books	2	12	19	N	N	Clear as mud	No matter how you look at it, any Calculus-based Physics text is difficult to understand.  But this text somehow makes it even harder.  There are almost no proofs for the formulas provided, and very little explanation.  Lots of important information (which should be in the body of the text) is actually included in the examples.  Even the examples are bad--some of them show the steps used in solving a problem, but most don't--they just skip to the answer.<br />When I first started my Physics class my teacher told us we wouldn't get credit for any problem we did that was done like the book.  I think it's a basic rule in Physics, Calculus, even Algebra that you should show your intermediate steps to allow others to understand what you're doing.  In a textbook this is especially true, but the authors here totally disregard this rule. <br />I have not yet encountered a really good book on this subject, but I do know that this will be one textbook I'll be selling as soon as I possibly can. It just isn't that helpful.  The one thing I did like were the different levels of problems--you could always see how difficult a problem was before you undertook it.  Other than that, I'm not very satisfied with the book.<br />Most people who buy this book won't have a choice--it will be for a class.  If you can't avoid it, my apologies.  If you can, keep looking--there's got to be a good Calculus-based Physics text out there somewhere.	2002-11-22
US	42173554	R1KNRTKEX2BR2L	0060006641	545117488	On Writing Well, 25th Anniversary: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Read this, write better.	This is a wonderful book on writing.  It is more than just a guide to writing grammatically well, it also teaches how to write interesting, meaningful pieces.  Though this book includes its fair share of grammar and syntax lessons, its main focus (and the largest portion of its pages) is in the ART of writing well.<br />Parts I and II cover the basics on style--how to eliminate clutter, write clear, tight sentences, etc.  Part III, the bulk of the work, deals individually with a variety of subjects that you might write about--people, places, business, sports, the arts, etc.  This is where the book is most handy, where Zinsser steps out of the writing-guide mold and gives us something unique, something very useful.<br />Part IV deals much with the process of revision, and talks about the final product.  This is useful to anyone who has goals of being published.  Throughout, this book is full of humor and wit, as well as a writing style that is very fun to read.  The only negative (in my opinion):  Zinsser uses too many of his own pieces as a basis of comparison.  Yes, I agree, he IS a good writer.  But he's not the ONLY good writer out there. I would have liked to see less of his own work.  The examples he uses from other writers are great--I just wish there were more of them.<br />Overall, this is a must-have for any aspiring writer, or for anyone who likes to write and wants to improve his or her style.  This is not the best writing book out there, but you'll definitely see an improvement in your style for having read it.	2002-11-19
US	42173554	R2YOJ7JAXF9KN1	1879664178	925077426	Through Blood and Fire at Gettysburg	Books	5	72	74	N	N	Invaluable reference, and well-told to boot	Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain did history a great favor by recording the events that happened on Little Round Top during the second day of the battle of Gettysburg.  Thanks to him we have an eyewitness account of the 20th Maine's valiant defense of the left flank of the Union army.  Rich with rhetoric, this account is packed with emotion and feeling.<br />The narrative is very short, only 29 pages, but there are many pictures and an appendix that make it well worth the money.  Many well-known histories have drawn on Chamberlain's account of this part of the battle, and Michael Shaara's novel even quotes some of Chamberlain's lines.  This primary source is highly recommended for anyone interested in the civil war, not just the die-hard historian.	2002-11-16
US	42173554	R3FKT27P27YEZ4	0582437547	751775557	Elizabeth I (Profiles in Power)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A good evaluation of Elizabeth's use of power	There are too many biographies of Elizabeth I out there--thankfully this isn't one of them.  The author purposely avoided another one, and instead focused on the evaluation of the way the virgin queen used her power.  Elizabeth was the last monarch of the Tudor dynasty, and had to rebuild the country after the disastrous reign of Bloody Mary.  This book shows how she effectively maintained control of the public, the church, the nobility, the court, the council, and the military, and tells us why Elizabeth was able to hold the throne almost 45 years.<br />Again, this is not meant to be a biography, so this book assumes that you already have a basic knowledge of Elizabeth's reign.  If not, you'll find yourself lost, but if so, you'll learn all kinds of stuff and find yourself looking at this English queen in a whole new light.  If you're a student of Tudor England, this one's for you.	2002-11-13
US	42173554	R2HK4IK6FEX12I	0393976580	61091649	Sir Gawain and the Green Knight / Patience / Pearl: Verse Translations	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent translation	This is a great translation of one of the finest poems ever written in the English (well, middle English) language.  The poem, in its original form, is very difficult to read, and Borroff's translation makes it not only easy but also very enjoyable to read.<br />This poem originally was very alliterative, and Borroff has preserved much of that.  Sir Gawain is one of the greatest of the Arthurian legends, and this translation preserves much of the poems integrity.  This is definitely a must have for any student of early English poetry or Arthurian legend.<br />The other works, Pearl and Patience, are believed to share the same author as Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.  These, too, are excellent poems.  This would be a great addition to any collection.	2002-11-02
US	42173554	R1H6PGD79JF9BP	068483118X	530210334	Space Trilogy	Books	5	148	153	N	N	The battle of good and evil--CS Lewis style	The Space Trilogy is CS Lewis's allegorical statement of theology and philosophy.  Lewis was one of the most prominent Christian apologists of his time, but he always felt there was an audience he couldn't reach.  This was his solution, and we are left with a masterpiece both in the world of fiction and the world of theology.<br />The hero of the books is Dr. Ransom, a philologist who is a good man, though not exceptionally heroic at first.  The first book finds him captured and whisked off to Mars, where he encounters a society much more morally advanced than our own, and learns that the corruption of our planet is due to an evil influence (which we would call Satan).  These higher creatures cannot grasp the concepts of war, murder, or any vice.<br />The second book finds Ransom transported to Perelandra, also known as Venus.  This is Lewis's allegory of the garden of Eden, and here he encounters an unfallen woman who is being tempted into doing the forbidden.  Here Ransom learns of the nature of sin, and of the temptation that (Lewis says) befell the parents of our own race.<br />The final book is quite different from the other two, and Ransom, this time on Earth, is battling an evil organization which is bent on penetrating the mysteries of the universe and purifying the human race.  Ransom and his followers are aided by a power that has long slept, and together they battle the power of science gone haywire.  We see, through their eyes, the evils of society and of so-called 'higher thought.'<br />There are many lessons to be learned from this wonderful trilogy, but there is also a remarkable story to be told.  If you're a fan of fantasy and science fiction, a reader of Christian and theological works, or both, you will greatly enjoy the Space Trilogy.	2002-11-01
US	42173554	R2L8NSAMA8EIOC	0684823853	350241759	That Hideous Strength	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Space trilogy concludes	The final book in Lewis's Space Trilogy finds Dr. Ransom confronting a huge international organization bent on the submission of the human race and given to all kinds of strange scientific experiments and with one supreme goal--to eliminate all free thinking and emotion.  This organization, the N.I.C.E., uses the press, government reform programs, and all kinds of propaganda to make them seem like the new heroes in England, while slowly they subdue the government and begin a takeover of the world.  It's Ransom's job to stop them, though this time he has some followers and aid from a recently awakened power that has long slept.<br /> True to his style, Lewis makes this a very entertaining novel with a great underlying message.  It is very well-written and teeming with symbolism that ultimately denounces the love of science over the love of God. <br />This book is a great read--highly recommended.	2002-11-01
US	42173554	R18QOX6OYWIR62	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great treatment of the battle of Gettysburg	The events of the battle of Gettysburg come alive in this historical novel.  Shaara tells the story with precision.  The focus of the book is not so much on the battle itself as on the men who fought the battle.   With a unique style, Shaara weaves pieces from several commanders (on both sides) together to form a clear look at what happened during those fateful three days and, more importantly, how those involved felt about it.<br /> Shaara makes the narrative flow with surprising fluidity, despite the less-than-adequate writing style and his obsession with adverbs.  With Shaara, any (and every) adjective can be used as an adverb, and he uses them shamelessly.  Try as I might, I cannot picture a man who \\"sat whitely\\" or  \\"responded blearily.\\" These abuses of the English language are a dime a dozen, and men do things guiltily, fatly, and blackly. <BR> His odd writing style ignored, Shaara has done a great job on this work.  The dialogue is believable, the characters vivid, and the detail precise, even down the many, many maps showing positions at different stages of the battle (for which I was very grateful).  It seems his research was exhaustive and, while everything may not be completely accurate, he has done a great job of giving us a feel for what happened in this tremendous battle.<BR> Anyone interested in the Civil War will definitely like this book. If you enjoy historical fiction or American history I would recommend it as well.	2002-10-24
US	42173554	R3K7U3A0MV144K	0345357116	517898316	Unfinished Tales: The Lost Lore of Middle-earth	Books	5	358	362	N	N	Got questions?  Here are many of the answers.	This collection of stories is just what the name implies--unfinished tales from both the continent of Middle-Earth and the island of Numenor.  These tales are great and rich in detail, but one should be warned that they are not your everyday fantasy story.  Both The Lord of the Rings and The Silmarillion are complicated and not casually understood, but this book tops both of them in terms of complexity.<br /> The story of the compilation of the book is this: Tolkien's son Christopher collected a mass of writings of his father--notes scrawled on scraps of paper, unpublished essays, even letters dealing with Middle-Earth.  He edited and organized them, and prepared them for publication, and the result is this book.  Because of this, many of the stories are missing detail and have some speculation, and all of them relate to other events related in Tolkien's other works.<br /> Because of the relation to Tolkien's other work, this book should be read AFTER The Lord of the Rings, The Hobbit, and The Silmarillion, and should only be approached by those who want to seriously study and learn all there is to know of the world Tolkien created.  For the casual reader this compilation may be somewhat tedious, for there is much detail lacking and it is assumed that you already have a knowledge of the history of Middle-Earth as outlined in Tolkien's other books.<br /> For those who are serious about study, though, this book is a great addition to the already extensive world of JRR Tolkien.  Ever wonder where Gandalf and the other wizards came from?  Why Bilbo was chosen to accompany the Dwarves in The Hobbit?  What the palantiri stones do, and where they came from?  If so, then this is the book for you.  You will find a collection of stories that will greatly enrich the lore of Middle-Earth (and Numenor).  <br /> For serious readers of Tolkien, this book is highly recommended.  No one does fantasy like he does, and even these scattered fragments of narrative are enough to leave you begging for more.	2002-10-21
US	42173554	R1VWOR4RMC6D9X	0156329301	450659252	The Four Loves	Books	5	6	7	N	N	We only think we understand love	CS Lewis can take a difficult issue and boil it down to something remarkably simple--that's the beauty of his writing.  Here Lewis tackles love--the most simple, the most complicated, the most pleasurable, and the most painful of all our emotions.  He approaches his subject with uncanny insight, and divides this passion, what we call love, into four types: affection, friendship, eros (sensual love), and charity.  Then, starting with affection, Lewis proceeds to tell us just what we thought we could never understand.<br />I am not a flowery, luvvy-duvvy type of guy.  I don't find it all that amusing to sit around and talk about emotions.  But Lewis's writing is different--he takes the subject of love to a higher level, and examines what it is that makes us feel the way we do and, more importantly, how that can bring us closer to God.<br />This book, like many of Lewis's works, is a case for Christianity.  But even without that approach this book is invaluable, because Lewis can make you understand WHAT IT IS to love.  In short, you can learn how to love better, and how to make your dealings with others much more meaningful.<br />CS Lewis is different than most theologians (he would have hated to be called that).  While many concentrate on doctrinal matters, Lewis explores everyday life.  What he teaches are good, solid morals--the things that will make you a better everyday person.  This book is highly recommended for a good look at what we call Love.	2002-10-15
US	42173554	R317DIUV9RQIC4	0156870118	714437196	Surprised by Joy: The Shape of My Early Life	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The world according to CS Lewis--a masterpiece	CS Lewis never ceases to amaze me with his sincerity and utter humility.  His genuine goodness is clear in all his works, but even more so in this.  Surprised by Joy is an autobiographical book in which Lewis relates the events of his early life--particularly those which led to his eventual return to Christianity.  As usual, he is frank and very analytical of all that happened as he first lost his faith, and then found it again.<BR>Lewis talks about many events which led him to question the existence of God, and he explores what may have motivated his way of thinking.  His candid analysis of these events provides some wonderful insights.  He also explains how he gradually was brought back into the fold of Christianity, and how he reluctantly embraced God once again as \\"the most dejected and reluctant convert in all England.\\"<BR>Though this is an autobiography and strays considerably from the format of Lewis's theological works, there still is a significant amount of theology involved.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in theology, especially Christianity.  For fans of CS Lewis, this is a must have!	2002-10-08
US	42173554	R2IMM4P10PFFD6	0618126988	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful	From the master of fantasy comes this jewel of jewels.  The Silmarillion is the story of the Silmarils, the most precious gems ever crafted.  In telling the story of these treasures he presents the tale of the creation of middle-earth -- a sort of mythological beginning which involves a hierarchy of greater and lesser gods and later brings the creation of the elves.  It also tells the story of Morgoth, the first great dark lord under whom Sauron was only a lieutenant.  <BR>As the elves divide, multiply, and spread upon middle-earth, changes gradually take place, and strife appears.  Soon men are created, and the dwarves come out of the east.  Wars rage and Morgoth wreaks havoc upon the land with his army of balrogs and dragons.  This, then, is the story of the first age of middle-earth.<BR>Along with the tale of the Silmarils comes a story of Numenor, the ancient land where men dwelt and from whence came the lord of Gondor.  Also included is a tale of the forging of the rings of power, and an account of the first defeat of Sauron.  Altogether, this book encompasses the first and second ages, as well as a sketch of the events of the third.<BR>For true Tolkien fans, this will be a wonderful addition to The Lord of the Rings.  Tolkien's writing style is beautiful, and the story is very well written.  Any fantasy fan will enjoy this book greatly.  It should be remembered, however, that this book has more of a mythological base, and there is less attention to detail and much less dialogue than the Lord of the Rings.  Instead it is told as a sort of epic history, given as an overview rather than a detailed account.	2002-10-08
US	42173554	R11SG42NJ140ZD	0875522335	854815946	Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God	Books	4	7	20	N	N	Fire and Brimstone...	As one of the most well-known American religious discourses in history, this fire-breathing sermon roars from start to finish with the threat of hellfire and eternal anguish of soul.  Delivered by Jonathan Edwards, an early Puritan preacher in America, this sermon is cold and calculating--utterly methodical in the dissection of just WHAT God's wrath is and just WHY you don't want it to be directed at you.<br />To most religiously-inclined readers today, this sermon will seem a bit extreme, if not eccentric.  But one has to remember the context in which it was given.  These were the Puritans, the religious zealots that literally tried to 'scare the Hell' out of people. Edwards does this very well.<br />It may be true that this sermon is quite harsh, but that does not mean that one cannot profit by reading it.  The underlying message of this text is that the day for living a virtuous life is TODAY, and not later, or when we get around to it.  It also warns against the dangers of allowing oneself to enter a carnal security--to believe that all is well when we are in fact under condemnation.<br />Overall, this sermon has many great Christian values, though it should be taken with a grain of salt.  This discourse is definitely recommended for anyone with an interest in Christian readings.	2002-10-06
US	42173554	R15S8GE6ILB91E	0874214181	95271206	Pioneer Camp Of The Saints: The 1846 and 1847 Mormon Trail Journals of Thomas Bullock	Books	3	10	13	N	N	The journals are great, but Bagley's commentary is not	These are the journals of Thomas Bullock: the man commissioned by Brigham Young to write about the first (&quot;Pioneer&quot;) company of Mormons to make the trek into Utah.  They are written in typical 19th century style--full of details and odd anecdotes and more chronologically than organizationally minded.  Of course, they are journals, and as such are more concerned with fact than literary style.<br />The journals themselves are a great insight into the travels of this company.  Also, the notes Bagley assembled are great--full of relevant and useful information that greatly enriches the reading of this account.  The only flaw is Bagley's own additions.<br />The first two chapters were written by him, as sort of a preface, and each chapter is prefaced by a few pages of his commentary.  These writings detract greatly from the work, and are full of speculations presented as truth and seemingly oblivious to fact.  As far as history is concerned, it has very little worth, being more a collection of his opinions than actual circumstance backed by evidence.  There is no citation of sources, which further detracts from the credibility.<br />Overall, these journals are great, and the editing, superb.  Just don't rely too much on what Bagley says about them.  If you're interested in Mormon or Western history, these journals are worth a read.  It won't detract at all from the experience if you skip the prefaces, though.	2002-10-02
US	42173554	R135XGHVFE89X7	0803272553	322613793	Handcarts to Zion: The Story of a Unique Western Migration, 1856-1860	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A good account of the handcart migration to Utah	When we think of people migrating westward in the 19th century, we tend to think of covered wagons rolling along the Oregon trail.  What many of us don't realize is that many people made the trek by handcart--small, wooden carts that they themselves pulled all the way west.  These carts, though they had to be pulled by hand, were often able to make the trip in substantially less time than were covered wagons--and at a fraction of the cost.<br />Under the direction of the Mormon church, ten caravans of these carts crossed the plains into Utah.  Two of them met with disaster as a result of poor planning among the companies' leadership, but for the most part this form of migration was a successful one.<br />In this book, Hafen gives details about each of the ten companies, including charts showing mileage and number of immigrants.  Though the book is tailored to an LDS audience, it's scope is broad, and it should be of interest to anyone wanting to study the colonization of the American West.	2002-10-02
US	42173554	R2HND3UU4IZQY2	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great look at the original "band of brothers"	This is a good look at the \\"band of brothers\\"-- the men who composed the revolutionary movement.  It focuses on seven main players:  James Madison, George Washington, Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson.  Burr is actually the odd man here, and I think he could have been omitted, since he was less revolutionary and more annoying in his influence.  It seems his most significant (though not productive) contribution was that he killed Hamilton.<br />This book takes on a different approach than most history books do--it focuses on six main events, each of which was very significant in that it shaped the way the revolution played out and formed the nation into what we know today.  These events, in the order presented, are:<br />THE DUEL--This focuses on the duel between Hamilton and Burr in which Hamilton purposely wasted his shot and was, in turn, mortally wounded.  This is mostly significant in that it effectively ended the political careers of both.<br />THE DINNER-- This is about a dinner that included Hamilton, Madison, and Jefferson, in which the location of the nation's capital was decided on what is now Washington, DC.<br />THE SILENCE focuses on a petition to Congress to end slavery, headed by Benjamin Franklin.  It is significant in that, with this petition, Congress adopted a stance of silence on the issue of slavery, which was to continue for twenty years and would eventually culminate into the issues that would bring on the civil war.<br />THE FAREWELL deals primarily with Washington's farewell address, and details the significance of his leaving office.  As the true American hero, his retirement threatened to dissolve the already precarious unity of the infant nation.<br />THE COLLABORATORS speaks of the Presidential races (there were two) between Jefferson, who was backed by Madison, and Adams, who was backed by his wife Abigail.<br />THE FRIENDSHIP is about the reconciliation of Adams and Jefferson, which came about after many years of silence which followed Jefferson's appointment as Adams vice-President and his subsequent failure to support the latter's administration.  The reconciliation of these two stalwart friends is one of the great accomplishments of the revolutionary generation.<br />This book is very good in its historical examination of these events.  It's weakness is that it's sometimes a little too technical, and for that reason often borders on dull.  Overall, though, this is a good book about the Revolution and the men who brought it about.	2002-10-01
US	42173554	R344KHTEO32UPW	0877479038	23367057	Jesus the Christ: A Study of the Messiah and His Mission (Classics in Mormon Literature Series)	Books	5	7	14	N	N	The perfect synthesis of faith and scholarship	There are generally two types of biographies on Jesus Christ.  One is a book based on faith in which little attention is paid to historical significance or detail, and the other is a &quot;scholarly&quot; look, which looks at Jesus from a purely historical point of view and touches little or not at all on his claim of being the Son of God.  This book achieves both simultaneously, and does so with perfect harmony.  Talmage manages to stay true to both his scholarship and his discipleship.<br />This book focuses on a chronological look at the Savior's life, from Pre-Mortal life to the promises of his return.  It is not an attempt to convert anyone to Mormonism--it is more an attempt to convert to Christianity, though it does make use of Mormon scriptures in making it's case.<br />Talmage wrote this book with the intention to provide an objective look at Christ's life--but objective in the sense that it includes his miracles and theological teachings as well.  It is clear that, to Talmage, it was possible to be objective and still remain true to your beliefs.  The result of his effort is a beautifully descriptive and faith-promoting look at the man they called Jesus of Nazareth.<br />You do not have to be a Mormon to read this book--it was written for anyone wanting to know more about the Savior's life.  No matter what your religious persuasion, this book will build your faith in Jesus the Christ.	2002-09-30
US	42173554	R2TX0UA1NOCYCP	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The pitfalls of human nature	In this, the second book of CS Lewis's Space Trilogy, we find Dr. Ransom off on another interplanetary adventure, this time to Venus.  Instead of finding himself on an `old' planet, like he did on Malacandra, he finds that life on Perelandra (Venus) is relatively new; in fact, the woman he meets there is still in an `unfallen' state.  In other words, she is in a state of innocence much like Eve was in the Garden of Eden.<br />Ransom knows he has been sent to Perelandra for a purpose, but he does not know what that purpose is.  He soon finds out.  Weston, his old rival and former captor, shows up on the planet.  Ransom soon discovers that Weston is possessed by an evil force, and calls him the 'Unman.' He then spends all his time trying to protect the woman and keep her from `falling,' so that the fate of the new planet will not be like Earth's.<br />This book continues in the allegorical style set forth in the first part of the series Out of the Silent Planet, though Perelandra takes it one step further.  This book is more of a religious work than the first one, though, and the moral implications set forth in Planet are both enlarged and expanded.  More than just a story of the fall, this book details the true ramifications of the battle of good and evil.  It dares explore such questions as why God allows temptation in the world and why we should make our will subordinate to his.<br />To fans of Milton, the story will seem somewhat familiar, and undoubtedly Lewis used much of Paradise Lost as a basis for this work.  The fact that he published a preface to Milton's work the same year this book was written seems hardly coincidental.  Still, this book teems with freshness and a unique insight that only CS Lewis can provide.  This is a classic work by the master of Christian apology.	2002-09-30
US	42173554	R11RNA42355XXM	0803292139	667485611	The Gathering of Zion: The Story of the Mormon Trail	Books	2	25	50	N	N	Stegner was NOT a historian	Wallace Stegner was a great travel writer, and a great writer of the American West.  There is one thing, however, which he was not--a historian.  The writing is eloquent, but the history is poor;  not only poor, but terribly inaccurate.<br />If you skim the details, this book is relevant enough.  But if you start looking at the actual basis of fact, this work falls way short.  One thing that should tip you off is that he does not cite his sources.  The few he does mention are shady at best--mostly secondary or tertiary sources, not all of which are reliable.  For example, if he wanted to tell about Joseph Smith's murder, why did he have to use Fawn Brodie's (very biased) account?  It's not like there isn't a ton of information out there.<br />This style of history is just sloppy.  Not only does it show that the author did very little research, it also shows he didn't care much about accuracy.  Some of the errors are simply inexcusable.  For example, he cites Wilford Woodruff as the sixth president of the Mormon church.  Anyone who grew up in Utah (as Stegner did) should have been able to find out that he was the fourth, not the sixth.  This would have taken very little effort on his part.  So why didn't he do it?  I think he just wasn't all too concerned with historical accuracy.<br />I recognize the fact that Stegner was primarily a novelist, but if you're going to write history, write history.  Don't turn it into fiction.  This book will give you a basic overview of the Mormon Exodus.  But you can get that in many other books, so why take your chances with a book who's reliability is questionable?<br />I gave this book two stars simply because the writing is very good.  He does a great job of telling a story.  Just don't be misled into thinking this is historically accurate, because it just isn't.  Stick to Stegner's other works.	2002-09-28
US	42173554	R3G2MMSDVJJDZH	1576760634	351080934	Starting Out with C++ (3rd Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great place to start	This book is very, very exhaustive in its coverage.  I didn't even go through a part of it.  But aside from its bulk, it was a very good introduction to programming.  Gaddis does an excellent job of showing how to program step-by-step, and makes it easy to teach yourself.<br />The book also contains a quick reference section where you can look up frequently used commands without having to find them in the text.  This book is highly recommended for beginning (and even continuing) programmers.	2002-09-27
US	42173554	R37IYYHCXB9KUA	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An honest look at grieving--a must have	I have to admit, when I first started this book I was a little surprised.  Wasn't this CS Lewis, the man who could take the most complicated issues of religion and explain them in a way that was simple yet easy to understand?  Wasn't this the man who had an answer for everything?  Didn't he have some kind of impenetrable armor?  I guess not.<br />One thing became quickly apparent--Lewis was human.  I cannot believe how incredibly candid, how open and honest he was.  The death of his wife hurt him deeply and shook his faith, and he was man enough to admit it.  The beginning of the book is filled with doubt and questions, yet slowly you can see the change take place.  Lewis is rediscovering his faith, and is slowly coming to terms with his wife's death.  It's beautiful.<br />Lewis obviously published this book because he wanted to help others through experiences such as his.  He wanted this to be comforting, and comforting it is.  He explores grief and loss like no other man can, and the result is this priceless little gem that helps us remember that it's okay to grieve.<br />I cannot think of a more fitting tribute to his wife.  By releasing this book, he showed the world just how much she meant to him.  I cannot praise this book enough.  With this short work, Lewis proves he really does have an answer (or at least the power to come up with one) for everything.	2002-09-23
US	42173554	R13FUI6TEDLVUO	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The "voice of the Declaration of Independence"	We often tend to think of John Adams as a space filler--the man who occupied the Presidency between Washington and Jefferson.  Sandwiched between these two great men, his contributions are often ignored.  Yet few (if any) men did more to achieve independence or hold together the infant American nation than did John Adams.<br />Adams was the lion of Congress.  He fought to sever the ties with Great Britain like no man, and it was largely due to his influence that it was finally achieved.  It was he who nominated George Washington to be the Commander of the Continental Army.  He was head of the committee of war, and was a part of the committee (with Jefferson) that provided the initial draft of the Declaration of Independence.<br />During the war, Adams fought his battles on foreign soil, as ambassador to France, Holland, and eventually (after the war) Great Britain.  He was the Washington of diplomacy, and he helped negotiate for the Treaty of Paris in 1783.  He secured a much-needed loan from the Dutch, which helped sustain the army.  His accomplishments go on and on.<br />Through all this, he became close friends with Thomas Jefferson.  When Washington became President, though, Adams (who was Vice-President) and Jefferson began to disagree on a number of issues, and their friendship eventually dissolved.<br />Amid much dissension and controversy, Adams became the second President of the United States.  Though he served only one term, his actions were to have a lasting impact.  Among other things, he advocated a strong navy (which proved invaluable when the French threatened war) and a united government, without political parties.<br />This book pays fitting tribute to a stalwart hero of the American Revolution.  It is extremely informative, and full of quotes from Adams' letters and speeches.  The account of the renewal of friendship with Jefferson at the end of their lives is touching to say the least.  Both were great men, and they served each other well in theirdeclining years.  Ironic it was that they both died on July 4, 1826, the 50 year anniversary of the nation.<br />The main downfall to this book is it's length.  At time it seems there is too much detail.  Also, it does not give a very good account of the death of Adams' wife, Abigail.  For one who was so close to Adams as she, it seems a more fitting tribute (or quote of his) could have been given.<br />Overall, this book is an excellent depiction of an amazing man.  Americans should be immensely grateful for the selfless contributions of John Adams.	2002-09-23
US	42173554	R2I8YX19IUDABM	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brilliant	This is one of many fabulous books by CS Lewis.  It is fiction, but in an allegorical sense.  It is the story of Dr. Random, a man who is kidnapped and taken to the planet of Malacandra.  There he escapes his captors, and finds himself among a strange alien race.  He lives among them for some time and learns their language and customs, including religious beliefs.  He tries to teach them about Earth, but they cannot grasp the concepts of murder, greed, corruption, or any vice.<br /> In time, Ransom is summoned to appear before Oyarsa, who he thinks is a form of deity but turns out to be a kind of steward for the planet.  In his charge is the care of Malacandra, and he insures that the three dominant races exist in peace.  Ransom appears before him, and he explains that his intention is to know about \\"The Silent Planet,\\" which Earth is called by all other planets.<br /> He explains to Ransom how they all live in harmony--each doing his share of the work.  Their lives are simple, and thus very happy, but they also understand certain spiritual matters to a degree that baffles Ransom (they do not fear death, and don't grieve when someone dies).  He explains that each planet has an Oyarsa, but that Earth's became \\"bent\\" (the Malacandrian word for bad or corrupt).<br /> When his former captors are brought before Oyarsa, one of them, Weston, makes a powerful speech threatening them with annihilation and boasting about the strength of his world.  Ransom translates, but finds it impossible to express Weston's corrupt notions in the Malacandrian language.  This is one of the most beautiful messages of the book.  The Malacandrians can't even understand corruption, let alone be influenced by it.  Their society is so simple, yet so pure, that they don't even have a way to express it.<br /> As Ransom explains in Malacandrian, Weston's noble intentions suddenly seem very corrupt when explained in such simple terms.  Weston's claim that \\"our right to supercede you is the right of the higher over the lower\\" doesn't seem so convincing when Ransom translates it: \\"he says it would not be the act of a bent [being] if our people killed all your people.\\"  Of course, Oyarsa does not see his point of view.<br /> This example demonstrates the satirical brilliance which dominates the book.  By creating a race that doesn't comprehend violence and vice, Lewis very successfully shows how ridiculous it is.  The book is filled with thoughts like this, brilliantly woven into the story to create sheer masterpiece.  If there is a work of fiction that shows CS Lewis' genius, this is it.	2002-09-20
US	42173554	RSDRLD6BQ73AM	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent translation	I must admit, I've only read two versions of \\"Beowulf,\\" but I find this one so masterfully translated that I doubt I'll ever take my chances with another.  Seamus does a wonderful job of capturing the emotion, the power of the story of Beowulf.  The translation couldn't have been better.<br />Beowulf is a timeless story of a hero among men.  In a time when a man's worth was shown by his acheivements and his prowess in battle, Beowulf stood head and shoulders above the rest.  This beautiful tale has been the basis for countless legends, stories, books, even movies.<br />Beowulf is the ideal hero--brave, just, loyal to his king.  In life, the accomplishments of Beowulf had no equal, and even in death he proves his nobility.  He was more concerned with his legacy than with his own life.  As he himself said:<br />So must a man do<BR>Who intends to attain enduring glory<BR>In a combat.  Life doesn't cost him a thought.  (1534-36)	2002-09-19
US	42173554	R11JG7U20JVHU3	0201710382	501520711	Non-Designer's Web Book, The (2nd Edition)	Books	3	7	13	N	N	A good start	So, you want to learn to the craft of web-design and want a beginners guide to help you do it?  Well, there are lots of design books out there, and perhaps none of them will tell you everything you need to know.  This book is decent; it has a lot of tips that are useful and some good ideas.  But most of what it teaches is either common sense or stuff you'll pick up anyway as you experiment with your software.<br />The book's main strength is in its pictures--there are tons of them, and most of the examples are very good.  This will provide the reader with somewhere to start.  Unfortunately, the tips are not all that great.  Most of what is preached in this book is a matter of personal preference, things like screen resolution and alignment.  The authors give good suggestions on how to do things, but they make it sound like it's the only way.  It's not.<br />It's true that you have to follow certain rules of style as you build a website.  Color, contrast, and spacing are all very important, and if your site's an eyesore or is hard to use, people won't frequent it.  But, all in all, it's called 'design' for a reason.  It's your baby, do what you want with it.<br />That is the main weakness of the book--it's just a little too rigid in its so-called rules.  For those who want a book on web-design that is easy to understand, this will prove useful.  But there's nothing here that a little experience won't teach you.	2002-09-19
US	42173554	R2W2ZXCXXNXG30	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A must for any writer, or anyone who has to write	Almost everyone has to write things sometimes--reports, memos, term papers, a number of things.  Writing is an essential part of professional (or student) life.  This book is a must for anyone wanting to write well--not just for professional or aspiring writers.<br />The book is less than 100 pages, yet it is so packed with useful information and advice that it will drastically change the way you look at writing.  The central theme of the book is &quot;Edit!&quot;  The first sections deal with the need to omit needless words, to trim and cut your writing to the bare essentials.  After reading these sections, you will find yourself ruthlessly attacking your own writing, striking needless words, phrases, and paragraphs, and significantly improving your technique.<br />There is also a section on the misuse of words--ways we typically use words out of context.  There are many examples, and I don't doubt that even the best writer will find himself guilty of quite a few of them.<br />All these sections were written by William Strunk.  They were later edited by E.B. White (a student of his), who then added the fifth and final section of this book.  White's is perhaps the most useful advice.  He gives us a list of &quot;reminders,&quot; rules to help us improve our writing.<br />He counsels us to avoid clutter, avoid using too many big words, eliminate &quot;qualifiers,&quot; and be clear, to name a few.  This is wonderful advice, and an able conclusion to an already fascinating book.<br />This work is absolutely indispensable to the writer, and extremely useful to anyone else wanting to write well.  As Charles Osgood aptly put it, this book is &quot;small enough and important enough to carry in your pocket, as I carry mine.&quot;  Don't miss this one.	2002-09-18
US	42173554	R1YSL7GCFFTNLO	0553564935	543210681	Magician: Master (Riftwar Saga, Book 2)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Thrilling second chapter in the Riftwar saga	In Magician: Master, Raymond Feist continues the story begun in Apprentice. The so-called &quot;Riftwar&quot; continues, and we find both Pug and Tomas (the two main characters from Apprentice) drastically changed.  Both gain great powers in this book, and both began to develop into powerful forces to be reckoned with.<BR>The intrigue in this book lies in that the story is told in both worlds, and from both sides.  Being a slave of the Tsurani, Pug learns their ways, and makes many friends among them.  True to Feist's style, there are so many prominent characters that it's hard to keep track of them all, yet each character is well-developed.<BR>This is definitely a page-turner, with the story taking so many curves that it is impossible to anticipate.  This is far from your normal, run-of-the-mill fantasy, this is a truly enthralling story.<BR>When I began reading this book, I became so involved in the story that I couldn't put it down, and finished the book in less than two days.  This is a great fantasy novel, and a thrilling conclusion to Apprentice.  The story, of course, continues for two more books, Silverthorn and Darkness at Sethanon, but the war effectively ends here.  Feist is a very able storyteller, one that will keep you involved from cover to cover.	2002-09-14
US	42173554	R39D0623QRA4SB	0618129022	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (Movie Art Cover)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Ultimate in fantasy	When you think of the fantasy genre, one name comes to mind more than any other--J.R.R. Tolkien. This was his shining moment.  With one story he forever defined the fantasy world. Who can mention wizards without having an old man with a long beard and pointy hat come to mind? The same could be said for Dwarves, Elves, and Orcs--when you mention the name, you picture them in your head the way Tolkien defined them. This is why he was revolutionary; his creatures, races, and ideas have been used over and over again since these books first made their appearance.<br />Every genre has it's pioneer, the one who established the boundaries to be used for generations after. In the fantasy genre, this pioneer was J.R.R. Tolkien.<br />As for the books, they are set in middle-earth, a world so elaborate and intriguing that you would never be able to explore it all, though you have a great desire to. The characters are many, and they are all masterfully developed.<br />The story is a classic one of good versus evil, but there is much more to it than that.  The real struggle lies in the power of the ring, and the temptation it provides.  The true challenge lies in denying the power of the ring, in mastering one's self.  Herein lies the brilliance of Tolkien's work.<br />While some aspects of the reading (poems, extensive detail, etc) are a little heavy for children, this is a timeless story, infinitely intriguing. The one flaw of the book is that you will not be able to put it down, and it will quite possibly disrupt every other aspect of your life until you finish it.<br />No library should be without this volume, the immortal tale of the One Ring.	2002-09-14
US	42173554	RTCREERO8KNBQ	0870811916	346564281	City of the Saints: And Across the Rocky Mountains to California	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Salt Lake City--Burton style.	Sir Richard Burton--master explorer, linguist, and scholar.  He is known as the man who brought the Arabian Nights to the English speaking world, and is credited with being partially responsible for the discovery of the source of the Nile.  He infiltrated the sacred cities of Medina and Mecca, disguised as an Arab.<BR>So what prompted him to go to Salt Lake City?  Burton was at a very difficult stage of his life, and needed a sort of vacation.  Plus, according to him, he wanted to &quot;see the Mormons.&quot;  Some say he was interested in seeing their system of polygamy firsthand, some that he loved to visit sacred cities (having been to Mecca, Medina, Harar, and Damascus).  Whatever the reason, he fortunately documented his trip, and we are left with this wonderful look, from an outsider, at &quot;The City of the Saints.&quot;<BR>One of the things that makes Burton so great is his absolute objectivity.  His account of his visit among the Mormons is no exception.  He went, he saw the facts, and he formed his opinions, just as everyone else.  What set him apart, though, was that he managed to recount his adventure without the taint of his own bias.<BR>Another great quality of Burton's was his incomparable eye for detail.  He noticed everything, and took great pains to discover the history of everything he encountered.  The result is a wonderfully rich account full of history and culture that Burton gives us as no other man could.<BR>This is considered to be one of Burton's best books, though it is little known.  It is by far the best non-Mormon account of early Salt Lake City that I've ever encountered.  Its only flaw is that it is a little drawn out in places, but for the most part, this is a wonderfully detailed account and well worth the read.	2002-09-13
US	42173554	R24U2EZWNPCUIU	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is it worth the read?  -- 'Tis	Once again, Frank McCourt dazzles us with his dark humor and his unique view of the world.  'Tis picks up where Angela's Ashes leaves off, and we find the young McCourt (at 19 years of age) returning to his birthplace in America, desperately hoping to find his place in the world and searching for some sort of opportunity that will afford him a more meaningful life.<BR>The narrative first follows Frank through a series of meaningless jobs and his stint in the Army, which provides him with some bookkeeping skills.  We follow him as he fails at a relationship, and see him developing a dependency of alchohol that threatens to make him follow in the footsteps of his father.  We listen to the heart-rendering accounts of his return visits to Ireland, and his efforts to bring his entire family to America.<BR>With the help of the GI bill, Frank manages to go to college, though he never attended high school.  He stumbles his way through that endeavor, learning as he goes.  After college he pursues his lifelong goal of teaching, and we watch as his dreams finally begin to acheive fruition.<BR>'Tis has somewhat of a lighter tone to it than it's prequel, Angela's Ashes, mainly because his life is a little better than it had been in Ireland.  He seems less resigned to his living condition, however, and the resultant inner-conflict and sense of needing to find a place in the world are the underlying tones of this book.<BR>Frank McCourt has an uncanny knack for making us laugh, making us cry.  In 'Tis, he does both, and does it like no one else can.	2002-09-10
US	42173554	R2XTMINAPDTVA0	0618129022	276015944	The Lord of the Rings (Movie Art Cover)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The greatest story ever told	When you think fantasy, one man comes to mind and stands above all others:  J.R.R. Tolkien. His genius can not be overstated, and this was his shining moment. What he did with this work is extraordinary in that it forever defined the fantasy genre. Who can mention wizards without having an old man with a long beard and pointy hat come to mind? The same could be said for Dwarves, Elves, and Orcs--when you mention the name, you picture them in your head the way Tolkien defined them. This is how you can say he was revolutionary; his creatures, races, and ideas have been used over and over again since these books first made their appearance.<BR>Every genre has it's pioneer, the one who established the boundaries to be used for generations after. In the fantasy genre, this pioneer was J.R.R. Tolkien.<BR>As for the books, they are set in middle-earth, a world so elaborate and intriguing that you would never be able to explore it all, though you have a great desire to. The characters are many, and they are all masterfully developed, each having his role in this classic depiction of good versus evil. While some aspects of the reading (poems, extensive detail, etc) are a little heavy for children, this is a timeless story, infinitely intriguing. If this book has a flaw, it is that you will not be able to put it down, and it will quite possibly disrupt every other aspect of your life until you finish it.<BR>This book is a must have for anyone's library.  The field of literature will be forever indebted to Tolkien for his enormous contribution to the world of fiction. This is a classic which will endure the strains of time and entertain for generations to come.	2002-09-05
US	42173554	R3DCZ44XQRQO1F	0684874350	698161422	Angela's Ashes (The Frank McCourt Memoirs)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A very well written memoir with more than a touch of humor	This book was a wonderful break from the average traditional memoir.  The story is not only told through the eyes of the subject (in this case, young Frank McCourt himself), but it is told through the eyes he had at that time.  For example, when recounting events from his very early childhood, he writes as a very young boy would think.  He doesn't understand death, he doesn't know why his father is an alchoholic, he doesn't know why his mother is always crying.  As the story progresses and he gets older, his perception changes and he begins to see the world with the greater understanding that each passing year brings.<BR>In the midst of this tragic tale of poverty and despair, one cannot help but notice the humor.  Oddly enough, this fits in very well with the tale.  We have to laugh as the young 'Frankie' attempts to understand the elements of life (death, poverty, etc.), and does so by creating for himself explanations which, though they seem to us absurd, could easily be conjured by a young boy.<BR>The great strength of this book lies in the way Frankie looks at the world.  He lives in horrible circumstances, and as he ages he becomes increasingly aware of this fact, and yet he still manages to find pleasure in life.  He does not, of course, think his life is perfect, but he knows it's HIS life and he seems to accept it.<BR>If this book were nothing more than complaining and whining about his poor, miserable childhood, it would be a waste of time.  Angela's Ashes is just the opposite, however.  We truly can see a childhood filled with sadness and poverty, not from the point of view of a grown man looking back, but through the eyes of a dirty little Irish boy.	2002-09-03
US	42173554	R38HERS5P2I9NJ	0451525426	60545371	The Arabian Nights: The Marvels and Wonders of the Thousand and One Nights (Signet classics)	Books	5	73	79	N	N	Wonderful tales and an excellent look at  Arabic culture	We are all familiar with the stories of Ali Baba, Aladdin, and Sinbad.  But where did these tales come from?  The answer lies in this wonderful (condensed) volume known as the 'Arabian Nights.'<BR>The story is of a woman, Scheherazade, who marries a king.  The king's custom is to spend one night with a woman and execute her in the morning.  To avoid this, Scheherazade tells him a tale, but leaves part of it unfinished, thus gaining the king's interest and insuring her survival for another day so she can finish the tale.  Being clever, she never finishes it, but keeps it continuously going, until the king finally spares her life.<BR>The stories presented here, though often somewhat crude, have great moral lessons to be learned.  The serve as a sort of moral reminder as to how a good person should act.<BR>When Richard Burton translated the Nights, he collected as many manuscripts as possible and pieced together the tales.  Many had been created centuries earlier, and were often told during gatherings among friends.  Burton, through his unparalelled knack for translation, managed to capture all the magic and mystery that are the Arabian Nights.<BR>Besides the delightful stories and good lessons to be learned, the Nights serve another purpose--they provide an intimate look at the culture of the time.  By examining their legends, one can gain a basic understanding of how Arabic culture functions.  There is as much to be learned about the people who tell these stories as there is from the stories themselves.<BR>I read this book for historical and cultural value, and found it to be abundant in both.  Besides that, though, I encountered a mesmerizing set of tales which will be entertaining to any audience, even (after some revision and editing) children.	2002-08-30
US	42173554	RS64WROWUCC11	0553564943	930626996	Magician: Apprentice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not your average fantasy novel	I have to admit that I approached this novel with a bit of skepticism.  Did I really want to read some lame story by a Tolkein wannabe?  I read it, however, and was very pleasantly surprised.  I found the book interesting and generally unpredictable (well, except the love-triangle thing).<br />As to the previous reference to Tolkein, one has to be wary of rip-offs, as there are many.  But I feel like Feist did a remarkable job of expanding on the genre Tolkein perfected (or all but created).  There are dwarves, elves, and trolls, much as one has come to expect from fantasy novels of this kind.  But there are also unexpected elements--a golden dragon, a force from another planet, etc.  Indeed, one can read this book and still feel \\"at home\\" in the fantasy world here created, but not feel like he's reading \\"The Two Towers\\" again with different characters.<br />As I said, the plot is interesting, and not easy to anticipate.  I found myself very surprised at the turn of events.  Feist also deserves praise for the personality of the enemy force in this book--they have feelings as well, and a strong sense of honor and respect for their foes.  By not portraying the 'bad guys' as pure evil, the story becomes more interesting and becomes somewhat more real.<br />My only real complaint lies in the sheer number of primary characters, and the way in which they are sometimes over or under used.  The story borders on being too complex, but it is possible to follow.  It's complexity is what gives it but four stars.<br />I have not yet read the other books in this series, though I plan to.  Feist has shown himself a capable storyteller.  One of the most difficult aspects of fantasy is creating a world that is believable, and Feist has done this with commendable skill.  I highly recommend this work to all fans of the fantasy genre, as well as those who (like myself) are interested by a good story, whatever the field.	2002-08-27
US	42173554	R32SXK77PMEK67	030681028X	795489382	Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton: A Biography	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A good look into the life of the greatest of adventurers	What an arduous task this would be:  to effectively compile in a single volume the life of one of the greatest adventurer/scholars of the last century.  The man was Richard Burton, master of 29 languages, accomplished swordsman, soldier, and scholar, the man who penetrated the forbidden cities of Mecca, Medina, and Harar, and he who helped introduce The Arabian Nights to the western world.<BR>Indeed, Burton was the stuff of legends, a man whose adventures and scholarly achievements have seldom been exceeded.  Rice definitely had his hands full when he undertook this biography.  For the most part, it is an able work, providing an interesting narrative and a good look into Burton's life.  Surprisingly enough, Burton, who wrote so much about everything he observed, left surprisingly little about himself.  For this reason, many details incident to his life must be left to speculation.<BR>One of the strong points of Rice's book is that he reasonably limits his speculation.  Though Rice often guesses about Burton's motives or actions, he never presents them as fact, and widely leaves it up to the reader to draw his or her own conclusions.<BR>Another  positive aspect of this book is it's focus on Burton's works.  In fact, the book seems almost an annotated bibliography of sorts.  As the story unfolds, the reader gets an idea of the circumstances relating to each of Burton's books, and this goes a long way in helping understand them.<BR>So why only three stars?  There are two reasons.  The first is that the narrative is often somewhat ambiguous, and there are some subjects which are only alluded to (as with Burton's get-rich-quick schemes).  Many anecdotes of Burton are poorly organized, almost rambling.  At times, the story is very hard to follow.<BR>This books greatest flaw is it's failure to cite sources.  Though there is an enormous bibliography in the back, there is not so much as a single footnote throughout the volume outlining the source of Rice's arguments.  This,to a student of history, will be overwhelmingly annoying.  Rather than provide his sources, we are expected to &quot;take his (Rice's) word on it.&quot;  For this reason, it is difficult to tell where fact ends and speculation begins.<BR>Despite these obvious downfalls, this is an entertaining book and a competent biography for anyone interested in either an overview of Burton's life or a biography on a very intriguing man.	2002-08-21
US	42173554	R2PYLW3WP88D6V	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	5	5	N	N	How the Devil wins his souls	This wonderfully witty work of CS Lewis brings to light many weaknesses of the human race, and especially those pertaining to Christians.  In a masterful style of satire, the book consists of a series of \\"letters\\" written from a high-ranking devil to a low-ranking one.  The latter, Wormwood, has just received his first \\"patient,\\" a young man, and Screwtape, his uncle, corresponds with him, giving advice and pointers as to how Wormwood can effectively conquer this man's soul.<BR>The genius in this book lies in the advice Screwtape provides.  Rather than counsel Wormwood to tempt this man into large sins which would instantly destroy his soul, Screwtape takes a subtler approach.  Letter after letter outlines ways in which Wormwood can turn the man's triumphs into tragedies, progress into hindrance, and virtues into vices.  Instead of trying to tempt the man into quitting church, for example, he advises persuading him to visit a number of churches, thus insuring that he will become a 'comparer' of churches rather than a follower of one specific doctrine. <BR>The obvious message of this book is a warning against the old \\"frog in hot water\\" idea.  If you throw him in hot water, he will jump out, but put him in cold water and gradually increase the heat, and you will soon have a cooked frog.  Lewis's message, masterfully presented and so clearly thought out (as is typical of him), is that Christians need to stop looking beyond the small things, to see the error in so many of their seemingly insignificant actions.  Perhaps the beauty of this book is that it shows just how easy it is to lose one's soul.<BR>CS Lewis was a master of Christian thinking.  This book is a product of his genius, a masterpiece full of invaluable advice.	2002-08-21
US	42173554	RK1D4I0FGK5TX	025202589X	375680382	The History of the Saints : Or, an Expose of Joe Smith and Mormonism	Books	1	7	21	N	N	Scoundrel of the 19th century	This book is an embarrassment.  Poorly organized, full of debased lies so incredible that one wonders rather the author himself actually believed them, and of such a personally vindictive nature that the reader feels as though he/she have just sat through a 330 page temper-tantrum.  I can't believe anyone takes this book seriously.<BR>The first obvious clue to the unreliability of this book is Bennett's 60-page tribute to himself.  It's been said, and I agree wholeheartedly, that anyone who needs that much space to prove the good nature of his character is a scoundrel of the worst sort.  And scoundrel he was. He sold college diplomas under auspicies of a bogus university.  At one time he abandoned a wife and children in Ohio.  He was famous for seducing young women with the promise that, should they get pregnant, he would perform an abortion on them (he was a doctor by trade).  Yet these facts (and many others) are oddly left out of his first-chapter shrine to himself.  And, wisely so, for if anyone knew the true character of the man, no one would have read the rest of his book.<BR>So, what is contained in the rest of his book?  Actually, there is very little of Bennett's own material.  The bulk of the work is simply a series of very long excerpts from previous anti-Mormon books.  So, what does one have to profit from reading this work?  Absolutely nothing.	2002-08-21
US	42173554	R1SATB8CY7VA9N	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Case for Christianity	This brilliant work by C.S. Lewis is aptly titled 'Mere Christianity.'  It may be seen as an attempt to prove that Christianity is true, though I think there is another, deeper level as well.  Lewis sought, very successfully I believe, to take away the sectarianism, the various religious dogma and ceremonies, to strip all Christian denominations of their pecularities, and to examine what was left; what can only be called \\"Mere\\" Christianity.<BR>Lewis made no attempt to win converts for his own church, nor tried to disprove the theories of any others.  He wisely left extremely controversial issues (such as the Virgin Mary) untouched, and focused on the very essence of Christianity.  Rather than examining the propriety of all the various doctrines on the subject, he looked at it as a way of life, as a way of being.<BR>Throughout the book there is a message which is dominantly conveyed--that Christ is the means of our salvation, and that there is no other way.  You do not need to submit to the bickerings of various denominations as to HOW true discipleship can be acheived, you need only understand that it MUST be acheived, and act accordingly.<BR>Obviously, this book is partial to the Christian mindset, but it's value is incalculable to anyone--Christian or not.  The root of the message Lewis so elegantly conveys is that man has the potential to progress to an infinite degree--it just so happens that he believes Jesus Christ to be the medium through which that progress is made possible.<BR>This is not an 'objective' work in the strict sense of the word, for Lewis relies on the faith of the reader, and faith is something which cannot be seen nor proven.  Despite and perhaps because of this fact, Lewis presents here one of the best views of Christianity of our time.	2002-08-15
US	42173554	R30M6V8MDJXIUW	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An excellent forerunner of the Lord of the Rings!	Long before Frodo gained possession of the One Ring, before the great council in Rivendell or the terrors of the mines of Moria, there was another hobbit, Bilbo Baggins by name, who had his own adventure.  This book relates that adventure.<br />Though it explains various parts of the Lord of the Rings series (such as how Bilbo got the Ring), this is truly a tale independent of the well-known trilogy.  Very little of the journey actually deals with the finding of the Ring, and the focus rests on Bilbo and his journey with Gandalf and a troop of dwarves.<br />The story, as it is told, is of Bilbo's part in a quest to defeat the dragon Smaug and recover lost treasure and land of his dwarven companions'.  The tale abounds in adventures, encounters with mystical creatures, hardships, and every other element for which Tolkien's stories are famous.<br />This book was written for children (the reading being much easier than Tolkien's other works), but is a timeless classic which can doubtless be enjoyed by young and old alike.	2002-08-13
US	42173554	RJNXTLXZWDW7L	0252012968	296317805	Brigham Young: American Moses	Books	4	31	38	N	N	It's a pity more biographies like this don't exist.	Brigham Young was undoubtedly one of the most intriguing leaders of the 19th century. There exist many biographies on him, most of which are not worth your time. This book, however, is a notable exception. Possessing a talent for objectivity that is all too rare in biographical literature, and much less when religion or personal values are involved, Arrington presents the story of the life of Brigham Young in a real sense. He achieves what so many cannot--the ability to evaluate the man in an unbiased way and still be true to his beliefs (Arrington was a member of the Mormon church). The author does a wonderful job of presenting Young as a human being, complete with faults and failures. In so doing, however, the dignity and majesty of his character are in no way compromised. The facts and events of his life are presented as they really occurred, without the taint of bias or speculation, and should be informative and unoffensive to Mormon and non-Mormon alike. For a true in-depth look in the life of this modern Moses, this book is definitely worth your time.	2002-08-08
US	42173554	R3GTEZTUB7WFUS	0618260250	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you're going to read this book,don't make any other plans	Tolkien was a genius, there's no two bits about that.  What he did with this work is extraordinary in that it forever defined the fantasy genre.  Who can mention wizards without having an old man with a long beard and pointy hat come to mind?  The same could be said for Dwarves, Elves, and Orcs--when you mention the name, you picture them in your head the way Tolkien defined them. This is how you can say he was revolutionary; his creatures, races, and ideas have been used over and over again since these books first made their appearance.<br />Every genre has it's pioneer, the one who established the boundaries to be used for generations after.  In the fantasy genre, this pioneer was J.R.R. Tolkien.<br />As for the books, they are set in middle-earth, a world so elaborate and intriguing that you would never be able to explore it all, though you have a great desire to.  The characters are many, and they are all masterfully developed, each having his role in this classic depiction of good versus evil.  While some aspects of the reading (poems, extensive detail, etc) are a little heavy for children, this is a timeless story, infinitely intriguing.  The one flaw of the book is that you will not be able to put it down, and it will quite possibly disrupt every other aspect of your life until you finish it.<br />This is a classic which will endure the strains of time and entertain for generations to come.	2002-08-07
US	42173554	R23URPBXLFR8HK	0961602406	825346308	Porter Rockwell: A Biography	Books	2	28	38	N	N	Disappointing...	This book is a poor, almost fictional attempt to chronicle the life of the infamous Orrin Porter Rockwell.  While I'm sure Dewey's intentions were good, he did a bad job of presenting History.<BR>His subject was a difficult one, Rockwell having left no diary.  In addition, there are a few undetailed accounts of him in the official History of the Church to which he belonged.  Most of the rest is speculation.  Despite this lack of evidence, Dewey assumes that he knows Porter's mind and emotions on all occasions.  How could he know that something &quot;turned Porter's stomach&quot; or &quot;hit close to home&quot; if Rockwell never left a journal?<BR>Most of his biography is speculation.  The bulk of the work is actually a brief overview of the history of the Mormon church, and Dewey just inserts Rockwell wherever he wants to.  For example, he tells the story of a group of Mormons who, in 1838, went out to defend their Missouri homes.  Dewey just assumes Porter was there, and says he was &quot;probably riding at their head.&quot;<BR>Toward the end of Rockwell's life, firsthand accounts of him become few and far between.  In order to deal with this, Dewey simply lumps together all accounts and legends of Rockwell with no consistency or continuity whatsoever.  The stories jump around, and each paragraph is an entirely new subject.  This is very difficult to read, and does little besides give a collection of myths.<BR>This book gets two stars because of Dewey's obvious sincerity.  He is not a historian by trade, and it shows.  His subject is a difficult one to write about, and Dewey managed to chronicle his life with some accuracy (despite all the speculation). If you want to read an interesting tale/legend about one of the most heroic Western lawmen, read this book.  Just don't expect much in the way of historical accuracy.	2002-08-05
US	42173554	R1OWPKAVGV39IZ	0679730540	783796428	No Man Knows My History: The Life of Joseph Smith	Books	1	58	191	N	N	Creativity is no substitute for objectivity	I read this book because of it's notoriety.  With both staunch Mormons and anti-Mormons screaming bloody murder at each other over this (as can be seen in previous reviews), I knew there was something to discover.  What I found, however, was extremely disappointing.<BR>I read this book thinking it was history--it's not.  That thought was quickly dispelled from the start when I read, with no small degree of wonder, just how much Brodie claims to have known from inside the mind of Joseph Smith.  Where true history relates the event, Brodie touches upon it and then proceeds to tell why Smith did it, what he was feeling, and just what he hoped to accomplish by it.  What's even more disturbing, she has the arrogance to present her wild speculations as facts.<BR>Whether or not you believe that Smith was a prophet, Brodie's story is too much.  Does she really believe that he could have dictated the entire Book of Mormon, without stopping or revising, and in the sentence structure in which it now appears, and do it so fluently that those writing for him did not know he was just making it up as he went along?  That's fine if you don't believe in the veracity of the Book of Mormon, but at least come up with a more plausible story than that one.  By making this allegation, she attributes to Smith a literary talent above most any other person in history.  Who else can write a 500 page book that lasts over 150 years without revision?<BR>Of course, those who see Smith as a fraud anyway will see this as a wonderful standard under which to rally.  But those of us who seek real history, without the zeal of religion (or anti-religion) will be utterly disgusted by the author's blatant negligence of sources.  Many quickly praise that she has \\"done her homework\\", and, upon scanning the bibliography, it appears she has.  Upon closer examination, however, it is easy to see that the bibliography does little more than take up space.<BR>The majority of her allegations, as well as the inferences she draws, have no source.  They are either not documented, or simply products of Brodie's imagination.  When she does give a source, it is many times the testimony or work of a bitter enemy of Smith which, though such testimonies may be useful, should not compose the bulk of the work.  As for her other sources (Church History, newspapers, etc.), they leave much to be desired.  <BR>As I was reading, I was so shocked by some of her claims that I checked up on some of her sources.  What I found was a great example of document-splicing.  In many cases she manipulated her sources to an almost unrecognizable extent, often insinuating things the author clearly did not intend.  Sometimes, she misquoted the source altogether.  Come now, Mrs. Brodie, did you really think that noone who ever read your book was going to have access to any of your sources? <BR>In my opinion, this book was nothing more than a feeble attempt of the author's to lash back at the society by which she felt restricted.  The work is so saturated with the author's bias and speculation that it can scarcely pass as non-fiction. <BR>Mormon and non-Mormon alike should avoid this book, simply because it's a horrible attempt at biography.  In giving this book one star, I take none of my personal feelings on the subject into account.  It simply is bad history.  Rather you believe in Smith or not, this book will profit you nothing.	2002-07-30
US	42173554	RDVUNV4RWUWH	0806123184	725767459	The Mountain Meadows Massacre	Books	2	30	74	N	N	Some historical value, weak argument	This book is an attempt to \\"bring to light\\" the facts that surrounded the Mountain Meadows Massacre, one of the darkest moments in LDS history. With the aid of journals, testimonies, and court proceedings, Ms. Brooks attempts to dispel all myths surrounding the tragedy and bring the truth forward. While the book gives many previously unpublished facts and details about the massacre, one cannot help but notice Brooks's very strong bias. Serving as an advocate to John D. Lee, the man executed because of his involvement, and under a mask of \\"objectivity\\", she endeavors to show that, while the leaders of the Mormon church did not know about the massacre at the time it was commited, they later covered up the facts and hid all the evidence so as not to implicate the church. In trying to prove that Brigham Young was party to the trial that led to the conviction of Lee, much of Brooks's logic is faulty, at best. She presents the facts and then speculates on the rest.Her evidence to support her claims are nothing more than gossip, and that not even first hand.  To me, a statement made by someone who's grandmother once told them that she had heard one of the leaders admit to something 70 years earlier, holds absolutely no historical value whatsoever.<br />Though Brooks was a member of the LDS church, I was surprised to see that the last chapter was devoted to what she deemed a conspiracy to again hide the facts. Many will be shocked to find the names of Joseph Fielding Smith, David O. Mckay, and J. Reuben Clark listed among those who she implicates as covering up the evidence of the massacre. Her conclusion that, since the church never publicly denounced her work, it must have supported it, is a reflection of the faulty logic that dominates the book throughout. While This book is of some historical value, it should be read allowing for the bias against Brigham Young and the LDS leaders.	2002-07-15
