US	42230879	R284LE4N637YLG	076561457X	316280203	Recall!: California's Political Earthquake	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	An okay analysis; look elsewhere for gossip	For both myself and a lot of other bored political junkies, 2003's California recall election was literally a dream come true.  Not only did it feature perfectly cast villians (either Gov. Gray Davis or Rep. Darrell Issa, depending on your own personal political leanings) but it gave us a truly mindblowing roster of cynics, dreamers, weirdos, crusaders, columnists, socialists, businessmen, and film stars -- all reaching for a once-in-a-lifetime chance to become the leader of the biggest state in the union.  If you didn't smile at least once while reviewing the latest details flooding in from California, then you have problems that go far beyond politics.  And, ultimately, this strange little story had an ending that was either perfectly inspiring or perfectly insane (depending, again, on your own leanings): the election of the least likely governor since Jesse &quot;The Body&quot; Ventura.<br />Considering just how entertaining the whole thing was, it's hard not to be a little dissapointed with Recall: California's Political Earthquake.  The book provides an accurate, if rather dry, analysis of how and why Arnold Schwarzenegger won the election and it provides a nicely evenhanded account of the &quot;groping&quot; accusations that dominated the final week of the campaign.  As well, it also provides a very strong (and useful) analysis of why the voters decided to dump Gray Davis; an analysis that makes it clear that Davis's defeat had less to do with any partisan feelings or any psychological need to send a message to either President Bush or Congressional Democrats but instead had more to do with the fact that Davis was -- for lack of a better term -- kind of a jerk.  Though Davis and Schwarzenegger dominate the book's reporting, the authors also take the time to detail how the recall movement went from being an exercise in fringe politics to a genuine grassroots movement.  <br />Still, regardless of how accurate the analysis often is, this book fails to show why the California recall election became such a juicy soap opera.  It captures the reasons behind the election but absolutely none of the excitement.  While the book does devote a few brief paragraphs to the other major candidates -- Cruz Bustamante, Arianna Huffington, Tom McClintock, Peter Camejo, and Peter Ueberroth -- one still feels that their stories have been slighted in favor of the Davis/Schwarzenegger battle.  While this is understandable, it is still hard not to regret that the authors couldn't find the time to go into more detail about how Huffington became the candidate of Malibu or how Bustamante managed to go from being one of California's top politicians to an almost stereotypical party hack in just a matter of days after announcing he would be a candidate.  A short shrift is especially given to both McClintock and Camejo, the only two major candidates running as champions of political ideology and whose presence as potential spoilers should inspire hope amonst jaded political observers that candidates actually can still get some sort of attention based on their platforms as opposed to their personalities.  And lastly, Ueberroth's campaign was a truly tagic one for anyone with the memory necessary to recall the days when this man was reguarly toted as a future President.  His absolute failure to make any impact in the race is something that truly deserves to be studied and unfortunately, this book doesn't do that.  <br />And what about the other hundred and whatever candidates who ran in that election?  They get a brief mention and a few are listed by name (along with a description of what made them stand out) but -- considering that their valiant if bizarre campaigns pretty much made California the perfect microcosm of everything that is great and bad about democracy -- it's impossible to feel that the authors really did miss out on just what exactly made this election worthy of a book in the first place.  Yes, Arnie may have been elected and Davis's fall might have represented the end of a certain type of politician but beyond all that, how can you talk about this election without making more than a brief mention of paralyzed pornographer Larry Flynt's campaign?  How could you ignore the undeniably cute, if radically left-wing, computer programmer Georgy Russell and how she build up a considerable following by selling &quot;Georgy-For-Governor&quot; underwear on her web site?  Where's erstwhile Diff'rent Strokes survivor Gary Coleman and his legalize marijuana platform or -- my personal choice if I'd been a California citizen in 2003 -- Republican bar owner and self-described &quot;former party girl&quot; Reva Rennee Renz?  Nearly 200 people ran against Davis and Schwarzenegger and they made this election.  Regardless of how successful the final results are analyzed, by totally ignoring Arnie and Davis's energetic co-stars, this book misses what made the recall such a wonderful thing.<br />In the end, if you just want (or need) the basic facts about the recall, this book is a good place to get them.  However, if you're looking for a book that truly captures the excitement, the humor, the tragedy, and the ultimate meaning of the election -- well, I fear that book hasn't been written yet.	2004-07-19
US	42230879	R2T6102CCLLSYS	0451158555	801866944	The Man with the Golden Gun	Books	1	11	12	N	Y	For Bond completists only	To a certain extent, it feels unfair to criticize The Man With the Golden Gun, the last of Ian Fleming's original James Bond books.  It is generally agreed that Fleming, seriously ill while writing this book, died before having a chance to rewrite his initial, sketchy drafts.  The book itself was rushed out by Fleming's publishers and therefore, if it often reads like a first draft that's because it is.  <br />This is the book that finds James Bond returning to MI6 after being briefly brainwashed by the KGB.  Needing to redeem himself in the eyes of M (who, in this book's rushed characterization, is at his most coldly unlikeable), Bond is sent to take out international assassin Paco Scaramanga, whose trademark is that he kills with a golden gun.  As said, the entire book reads like a sketch of an idea (a short story really) and Fleming's prose and dialouge are (through not fault of his own) rough and unpolished.  However, the book does have a few good points that are all the more remarkable when you consider the duress Fleming was under when he wrote it.  Scaramanga is a potentially fascinating character, a wonderfully image of James Bond as if reflected in a funhouse mirror.  Indeed, it is hard not to feel that if Fleming had lived to write a second draft, Scaramanga would be remembered as one of his most memorable villians, in league with Dr. No and Goldfinger.  As well, there is wonderfully elegiac about the book's final chapter where Bond spends a few pages considering his legacy as a secret agent and his future in espionage.  Fleming, surely knowing that this would be his final novel, uses the chapter to sum up all that he had written over the past 15 or so years and it serves as a nice tribute for the fans of the original James Bond, confirming everything that made us a fan in the first place.  The Man with The Golden Gun isn't a book that accurately reflects the depth of Fleming's talent or the potential of the literary James Bond but it still has a few shinymoments that shows why Bond has endured.	2003-03-11
US	42230879	RF75GTJNFG7S2	0595214355	482594609	Secrets of the Painter: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A book for the uncommon reader	Matthew Hovious's first novel, Secrets of the Painter, is -- like most thought-provoking works of art -- a hybrid of many different genres.  In this case, historial fiction, political satire, and metaphysical debate come together to tell the life story of Luis Malasana, a Spanish painter who strives to perfect his craft while surviving the increasingly (but all too plausible) surreal world of mid-19th century Spain.  Luis Malasana is hardly a likeable protaganist and indeed, a great deal of the book's power comes from the fact that Hovious never makes the mistake of trying to make his fictional protaganist any more redeemable than his real-life models.  History has shown that creative genius and human compassion rarely go hand-in-hand and those who would dismiss this book because Malasana neither loves little puppy dogs nor acquires an adorable sidekick during the course of his life would be guilty of missing the point entirely.  If Malasana seems, at times, to be incapable of feeling any sort of love for the rest of humanity, it is only because it is obvious that he has devoted all of his love to his art and Hovious is to be commended for so perfectly capturing the type of all-consuming passion that is necessary to feed the spirit of the true artist.<br />The book's central conceit is that Malasana practices his craft under a curse that everyone he paints will die shortly afterward.  To a certain extent, it's an unnecessary plot element -- Hovious' descriptions of the often farcial political turmoil swirling around Malasana and his grasp of the often conflicting motivations that inspire Malasana's genius are more than enough to create a compelling tale and hold the reader's interest without the introduction of the supernatural.  At the same time, it works brilliantly as a metaphor for the type of self-centered, narcisstic life that artists like Malasana were often forced to live in order to keep their art pure.  Some of the book's strongest scenes are the ones thatsimply feature Malasana and another character debating the metaphysical implications of the pursuit of art and the higher truth that it represents.  Sadly, these are not the type of esoteric themes that one expects to find in modern literature and their discovery here serve to make this book all the more valuable to the truly enlightened reader.<br />Lastly, Hovious is to be commended for bringing to life a fascinating cast of characters.  While Malasana is one of the most fully rounded protaganists that I've ever had the pleasure to come across, Hovious fills his book with intriguing supporting characters, many of them actual figures from history.  Especially touching is his portrait of the doomed Carlos de Montemolin, one of the many pretenders to the Spanish throne who finds his life as defined and cursed as much by his royal parentage as Malasana's life is defined and cursed by his artistic talent.  <br />Secrets of the Painter is not a book that will be mistaken for a work of mainstream fiction but that should hardly be taken as a criticism.  It is not a book for the common reader but, as Luis Malasana would undoubtly agree, who wants to live out their days being common?	2003-02-26
US	42230879	R11G0TPKQM78Z4	0895265648	768403651	Senatorial Privilege: The Chappaquiddick Cover-up	Books	3	126	136	N	N	An important overview of the case	As far as the murky facts surrounding Ted Kennedy's 1969 accident at Chappaquidick are concerned, Leo Damore's book Senatorial Priviledge is probably the best collection of what few things can definitely be said to be true.  While the book will disappoint those looking for a definite, unimpeachable case against Ted Kennedy, it does do a good job of laying out the bare facts of the case and, for all but the most partisan of readers, it will be hard to avoid the conclusion that Ted Kennedy managed to cheat justice.  While the portrait of Kennedy that emerges will not satisfy those looking for a cold-blooded murderer in the Senatorial cloakroom, it's still a disturbing portrait of an irresponsible, immature man who -- for whatever reason -- has been allowed to grow into an adult without learning how to take responsibility for his actions, no matter what the consequences.  If the book does have any truly serious flaw, it is that once again Chappaquidick's true victim, Mary Jo Kopechne, is reduced to a cipher, almost an after thought.  Beyond the fact that she died in Kennedy's car, very little is revealed about who Kopechne was or who she might have been had she lived.  Despite the book's honorable intentions (most of which it achieves), Mary Jo Kopechne's tragedy is once again allowed to be overshadowed by the Kennedys' crimes.	2002-11-07
US	42230879	RRESPI4GXI9DV	0770108725	461523450	The Spoilers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Underrated, unknown political novel	The Spoilers is an epic, political novel dealing with the then-future Presidential election of 1992.  (The book, itself, was written in 1988.)  The book's plot deals with the reelection campaign of a morally corrupt, womanizing Democratic President named Otis Meade and how what should have been a routine reelection is put into jeapordy by the grass-roots campaign of televangelist Cliff Hawkins.  While obviously inspired by Pat Robertson's then-contemporary campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination (and, as a central premise, it does give the sections dealing with Hawkins a somewhat dated feel), the book is mostly interesting in how accurately it seems to predict the upcoming Clinton Presidency.  From the somewhat sordid accounts of Otis Meade's compulsive womanizing to a major subplot dealing with the efforts to set up a new labor treaty with Mexico, what may have seemed as outlandish when originally written now appears positively prophetic.  Beyond that, the book itself is a mixed bag (at times, Hooks' huge cast of characters threaten to become interchangeable and some of the plot points -- particurly a minor character's nervous breakdown -- are a bit overdone) but those who enjoy political fiction will find a lot to savor within this uneven potboiler.  The characters of both Meade and Hawkins are very well drawn and the author does make an admirable attempt to treat seriously the various issues that would be raised by a succesful, religious-based Presidential campaign.  While the author seems to be, more-or-less, on the side of the right, he never allows the book to degenerate into becoming a simplistic piece of propaganda.  (In fact, if the author does seem to be on Hawkins' side in the end, it's obvious that he's still having more fun writing about Meade.)  The writer's style is a fascinating collection of overheated and awkward passages mixed with prose that display true skill and talent.  I've never come across any other books by Hooks and it's difficult not to mourn what might have been if the author had simply had a better editor.  The Spoilers is one of those obscure, unknown little books that dedicated readers, if they're lucky enough, will occasionally come across hidden away in the dark recesses of a used book store or a local library.  And despite it's flaws, the book's strengths help to reaffirm what makes the eternal search for worthwhile, if perhaps unheralded, literary effort so fulfilling in the first place.	2002-11-05
US	42230879	R2F76WYCV99U84	0922915245	518997747	Ed Wood: Nightmare of Ecstasy (The Life and Art of Edward D. Wood, Jr.)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A sad but addictive trip through Hollywood's dark corners	Nightmare in Ecstacy is an oral history of Edward D. Wood, Jr., the infamous filmmaker who has somewhat unfairly become known as the worst filmmaker of all time.  The book's author, Rudolph Grey, tells Wood's story through the recollections of Wood's associates, a motely crew of dreamers, self-promoters, and minor celebrities who -- while clear-eyed about Wood's lack of talent -- all seem to retain a rather touching loyalty to the memory of the hapless friend.  Through their recollections, we get a sad but strangely uplifting story of a professional misfit (amongst his many eccentricities, Wood's most notorious hobby was wearing women's clothing and developing a fetish for angora sweaters) who sought the approval of society the only way he could imagine -- by making it big in Hollywood!  What's truly amazing is that Wood managed to produce a recognizable oevure of films that are still watched and tracked down by film lovers today.  Grey's book shows how Wood managed to accomplish this while also giving us a warts-and-all portrait of one of the most unique men to ever find himself living in the usually unexplored dark corners of Hollywood.  Along with revealing the true Ed Wood, the book also gives us fascinating character portraits of the gang of eccentrics that surrounded Wood -- everyone from wrestler Tor Johnson, psychic Criswell, the delightfully caustic Vampira, to the tragically declining Bela Lugosi.  Grey's book becomes a valuable, vivid record of the underside of Hollywood; a portrait of the side of the entertainment capitol of the world that the rest of the world is rarely allowed to see.<br />Edward D. Wood, Jr. specialized in making movies that weren't really all that good.  In fact, the majority of them have recieved a sort of fame based on the assumption that they represent the worst films ever to come out of Hollywood.  As his films have recently achieved a sort of camp appreciation, so has the late Mr. Wood.  In fact, he has become such a legendary figure of incompetent amusement that it is easy to forget that, at one time, Ed Wood was no different than any other aspiring filmmaker -- he wanted to make films, he had next to no money or important connections in the film industry, and nobody took him all that seriously.  Yet, unlike the majority of others who come to Hollywood without a prayer, Ed Wood actually succeeded in making a sizeable number of films (regardless of their quality) and ultimately, died a rather tragic, early death as a result of pursuing his dream.  It's easy to forget that before he became a figure of camp amusement, Ed Wood was an actual human being and that's why we're lucky to have Rudolph Grey's humorous yet ultimately melancholy biography Nightmare in Ecstacy to remind us of that.	2002-11-05
US	42230879	RMD7I9QDW7J7Y	0394550315	625637348	A Time to Remember	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A sweet-natured fable	Stanley Shapiro's A Time To Remember is an amiable mix of old-fashioned science fiction and baby boomer nostalgia for a more innocent, pre-Viet Nam America.  In 1986, a Dallas-based man, his girlfriend, and an almost campily eccentric professor experiment with travelling into the past.  Our hero's goal?  To go back to November 22nd, 1963, prevent Lee Harvery Oswald from assassinating President Kennedy, and save the life of his older brother who would die in a war that the book's heroes (and writer Shapiro himself) is convinced that JFK would have prevented had he lived.  ...  It's a neat, little plot and Shapiro tells his story with such sincerity that it hardly matters that many of the book's twists and assumptions don't hold up under closer scrutiny.  (For instance, the book's central assumption that Kennedy would have truly pulled out of Viet Nam and by doing so, prevented every traumatic event of the next two decades always seems to be more a case of wish fullfilment than a truly believable possibility.)  What makes the book work is Shapiro's loving recreation of a simpler, less cynical America, of the nation that basically disappeared into the upheavel of the '60s.  Reading this book, it is impossible not to mourn that innocence that has been lost in the past few decades.  Even if you don't agree with Shapiro's central assumption that Kennedy, if he had lived, would have preserved that innocence, it's hard not to wish he was right as you read this heartfelt, idealistic fable.	2002-11-01
US	42230879	RYU9YU83M2D6I	0809235285	573073857	"If the Other Guy Isn't Jack Nicholson, I've Got the Part": Hollywood Tales of Big Breaks, Bad Luck, and Box-Office Magic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the neglected gems of movie trivia	One of my favorite games of movie trivia is trying to imagine what certain classic, beloved films would be like if they had been made with an entirely different cast.  Often times, the results range between the horrifying and the ludicrous (for example, Lana Turner as Scarlett O'Hara and Jeffrey Lynn as Rhett Butler, teaming up to make Gone with the Wind the dullest Civil War epic ever) and occasionally, you're forced to admit that a film like the Fugitive probably would have pretty much been the same rather the lead was played by Harrison Ford or Alec Baldwin.  And sometimes, if you're lucky, you imagine a film that may be different from the classic the world knows and loves but, at least to the mind's eye, is just as fascinating -- The Graduate starring Charles Grodin, Doris Day, Sally Field, and Ronald Reagan or Terms of Endearment featuring a comeback supporting performance from none other than Burt Reynolds.<br />These fun, intriguing, and often infuriating speculations are what lie at the heart of Ron Base's unjustly neglected film book, If the Other Guy Isn't Jack Nicholson, I've Got the Part.  (The title is an actual quote from Reynolds who either lost or gave up roles in films ranging from Terms of Endearment to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest to our Mr. Nicholson.  After reading this book, one wonders what Boogie Nights might had been like if Reynolds had passed on that...)  Starting from Hollywood's golden age and the days of the star systems and ending with the modern-day, often interchangeable blockbusters of today, Base writes a lively, humorous, and always fascinating account of the struggles and the intrigue that went into casting some of the best pictures to come out of Hollywood's studios.  He covers the famous search to find the perfect Scarlett, the comical saga of finding the perfect actors to bring the Graduate's story to life (and yes -- Day, Field, Grodin, and even Ron Reagan were all serious possibilities at one point of time), the birth ofthe Corleone Family, and even explains how a little-known Sharon Stone ended up with the &quot;honor&quot; of exposing herself to the world in Basic Instinct.  <br />Along the way, the book manages to provide a treasure trove of little known trivia and anecdote.  As well, by showing us how the faces of Hollywood's ideal leading stars changed (basically going from suave Clark Gable to awkward Dustin Hoffman and eventually ending up with the hulking likes of Arnie and Stallone), Base provides an interesting and entertaining look at the way American society views itself has been changed and transformed over the course of the 20th century.  This is a wonderful, fun book that will be enjoyed by anyone who ever watched Jack Nicholson on screen and thought to himself, &quot;Gee, I wish they'd gotten Burt Reynolds for that role.&quot;  Luckily, the book can enjoyed by the rest of us, too.	2002-10-15
US	42230879	R3SF31YR9MIVE2	0517293161	94927324	Marathon: The Pursuit of the Presidency 1972-1976	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An underrated classic	Though it is often overshadowed by the author's own later collaborations with Jack Germond (as well as the then-contemporary efforts of Hunter Thompson), Jules Witcover's Marathon is one of the unheralded classic works of the political nonfiction genre.  Covering the twists and turns of the rather bizarre 1976 Presidential election, Witcover follows the campaign from the very first stirrings of Jimmy Carter's longshot candidacy at the '72 Democratic Convention all the way to the photo finish that finds the nation faced with a choice worthy of Samuel Beckett -- Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, Lester Maddox, or Eugene McCarthy?  In between, Witcover provides excellent, insightful coverage of the now-forgotten efforts of such diverse men as the tragically witty Mo Udall, the endearingly spacey Jerry Brown, the bizarrely sympathetic George Wallace, and the deliberately enigmatic Ronald Reagan to take their respective nominations away from these men and change the course of American history.  If you ever wondered how America eventually produced a political system that could see everyone from Pennsylvania's hapless Gov. Milton Shapp to Oklahoma's radical former Sen. Fred Harris transformed, however briefly, into a legitimate presidential contender, this is the book for you.  Years after it was written and, unfairly, neglected, Marathon stands as one of the best books ever written on the subject of how we occasionally stumble into selecting our nation's leader.	2002-10-10
US	42230879	R39FB8QCG2K8VY	0738811416	910653900	Vampire Nation	Books	5	14	15	N	N	For readers of any political stripe	For whatever reason, it often seems that literary talent seems to go hand-in-hand with left-of-center politics.  Hence, for a political conservative such as myself, it is often difficult to find novels that are enthralling, enjoyable reads that don't require one to gnash his teeth whenever the author decides to mix a little political propaganda into the mix.  However, occasionally, the intrepid right-wing reader is lucky enough to come across an exception to the rule and Thomas Sipos' often frightening, frequently hilarious, and -- in the end -- disturbingly haunting Vampire Nation is one such beautiful exception.<br />Set in the late '80s, Vampire Nation follows Henry, intrepid American screenwriter, into Romania where he discovers that the decaying communist regime is actually made up of decadent vampires.  Somewhat forcefully recruited by an enigmatic woman, Henry is soon part of a violent conspiracy to assassinate Romania's ruler, Nicolae Ceausescu.  Over the course of one night, Henry is forced into a netherworld where communist vampires live off the blood of the \\"common man\\" and where the country side is haunted by the ghosts of innocent men, women, and children sacrificed in the name of \\"the people.\\"  <br />The analogy between vampirism and communism is very explicit but also very believable.  As a writer, Sipos has a definite knack for creating dark images and many of the book's sequences will remain in the reader's head long after the final page has been turned.  However, what makes this political book work is the fact that Sipos doesn't simply rest on his politics.  Instead, the book's anti-communist message is mixed in with a thrilling, fast-moving story that will capture the interest and imagination of any reader, regardless of that reader's ideology.  As scary as Sipos' vampires are, this is also, at-times, a laugh out loud novel and Sipos shows a wit that would make several better known writers envious.  He has created a truly likeable and sympatheticeveryman in his protaganist and its hard not to get caught up in Henry's adventures and his unlikely romance with a woman who might save his life or kill him, depending on the circumstances.  All-in-all, this is an impressive, intelligent tour-de-force and truly both one of the best horror novels and one of the best books period that I've had the pleasure to read in a long time.	2002-10-10
US	42230879	RJ9RAVQSHVBYN	9997512324	43762575	Diamonds Are Forever	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Read it for Tiffany	A regrettable sense of ennui permeates Diamonds are Forever, Ian Fleming's fourth novel featuring British secret agent James Bond.  It is obvious that Fleming was starting to grow bored with his most famous creation and, as a result, Diamonds are Forever lacks the thrill-ride atmosphere that distinguishes the best of Fleming's books.  For the first time, Bond deals with villians outside of the realm of the Soviet Union and the Spangled Mob, a rather anonymous group of American gangsters, never come across as worthy adversaries.  While Bond, himself, is drawn with the usual finnesse (and displays a grimly cynical outlook that stands in stark contrast to his previous appearances), the rest of the characters -- with one important exception -- are rather forgettable and Bond's mission (to stop a jewelry smuggling ring) is rather pedestrian.  However, this book does feature one truly exceptional feature and that is the character of Tiffany Case.  A ruthless, yet at time touchingly vulnerable, smuggler, Case is one of Fleming's strongest female characters and her romance with Bond is the book's highlight.  As opposed to the other women who populate many of Fleming's books, Case comes across as a truly capable heroine in her own right and it is easy to see why Bond ends up truly falling for her with an intensity to match his feelings for Vesper Lynd in Casino Royale and, later, Tracy in On Her Majesty's Secret Service.  Even if the book's plot is less than enthralling, it is impossible not to get caught up in the fate of Tiffany's and Bond's dangerous romance and to not hope the best for both of them.  Fleming is often criticized as being a sexist but in Tiffany Case, he creates a fascinating female character who can proudly stand against the cardboard femme fatales that have populated so many Bond-influenced spy thrillers since.  In the end, whatever the book's flaws, just the chance to make the acquaintance of Tiffany Case makes this book worth the read.	2002-10-10
US	42230879	R30794W8PYY02W	9997407229	20078142	Goldfinger	Books	3	8	11	N	N	A rare case	Goldfinger was Ian Fleming's 9th James Bond novel and admitedly, it is not one of the stronger entries.  Indeed, Goldfinger is one of those rare cases where the film made from the book is actually better than the book itself.  The book's plot finds James Bond investigating the gold-obsessed Auric Goldfinger.  The case starts largely as a lark for Bond but eventually involves Bond in a bizarre plot to rob Fort Knox.  As opposed to Fleming's best works, Goldfinger's plot often feels as if Fleming made it up as he went along and the book's final set piece and conclusion comes across as rushed and just a little bit lazy.  In fact, upon reflection, it becomes apparent that most of the book's twists and turns come less from any cunning on Goldfinger's part and more from James Bond simply making a series of stupid mistakes.<br />That said, it should also be remembered that Ian Fleming was, even at his most uninspired, a far better writer than most of his contemporaries.  As such, even subpar Fleming is usually more entertaining than the best of what other writers are capable of.  Especially in its opening chapters, Goldfinger has its moments of true wit and it certainly is enjoyable to follow Bond as he subtly manipulates the man's vanity.  While this book doesn't feature Fleming's usual strong cast of quirky supporting characters, both Bond and Goldfinger are strong and memorable enemies.  While Bond himself comes across as a bit more ruthless than usual (at times seeming to be an almost borderline sociopath), Auric Goldfinger stands as one of Fleming's strongest creations.  Incredibly childish at times while still being fully (and credibly) capable of amassing the world's largest fortune, Goldfinger is indeed a worthy villian and, even if his plan disappoints, the man never does.  The book is worth a read just for the chance to appreciate the skill with which Fleming creates a villian who, otherwise, could have been a harmless cartoon.  As well, any book that features acharacter named Pussy Galore can't be all bad.<br />In the end, Goldfinger is lesser Bond but it is a Bond book nonetheless and those who are familiar with Fleming's work will find much to enjoy.  (Those with the right sense of humor will certainly find some amusement in Fleming's theory that lesbianism is the result of women getting the right to vote.)  Goldfinger is not the type of book that should serve as anyone's introduction to Ian Fleming's Bond.  Certainly, both were capable of more than Goldfinger would (at first) indicate.  But with its flaws come several pleasures and it is a must for fans of the literary Bond.	2002-05-06
US	42230879	R338M68V1K3VLU	031220082X	238114760	The 50 Greatest Movies Never Made	Books	4	6	9	N	N	An extra star for originality...	Chris Gore's The 50 Greatest Movies Ever Made is wildly uneven, frequently enjoyable, occasionally insightful, and at times kinda annoying.  It's also a pretty cool idea that was long overdue and if Gore's book doesn't quite take advantage of the full potential of his concept, its still an idea that was long overdue.  Content-wise, this book would probably rate three stars (whatever that actually means) but it deserves that one extra star for being the first of its kind.  Hopefully, should someone decide to write a follow-up on other great films that were never made, they'll keep a copy of this book so that they may learn from not only the book's flaws but its strengths as well.<br />Every film fanatic has a few cherished projects that they learned about while they lingered in Hollywood's development limbo.  These were the movies that you looked forward to saying, that you found yourself checking up on whenever you got a spare moment, and these are the movies that either vanished all together or died right when they were on the verge of actually being made.  These are the movies that we regret we'll never get a chance to see.  Chris Gore's book details fifty of these film projects that, for various reasons, never actually made it to postproduction.  In Gore's opinion (and if Chris Gore has anything, its opinions), these fifty films would have all been classics of the cinema and, film-by-film, he details not only why the films were never made but why he believes we should mourn their loss.<br />Obviously, this is a highly subjective enterprise and Gore is often found defending a film's lost greatness on the basis of little more than his gut instinct.  As a result, I doubt there's a reader out there who will agree with all of Gore's choices.  Personally, its hard for me to share Gore's disappointment that we were never allowed a chance to see a Stephen Sondheim musical directed by Rob Reiner and co-written by William Goldman.  (In fact, I found myself rather relievedthat the whole thing fell apart.)  Try as I might, I can't summon up any enthusiasm for Swirlie, a serious crime film featuring a crime boss whose head is a giant ice cream cone.  Even Gore himself seems to be trying a bit too hard to convince himself that the failure of Jerry Lewis' That's Life is something to be regretted.  However, for every project that left me scratching my head, Gore came through with chapters on lost film projects that actually did seem to have the potential to be something special.  After completing this book, I did find myself wishing that I could run out and rent a copy Harrow Alley (costarring George C. Scott and Mel Gibson).  I did wish for a chance to catch the macabre comedy Won't Fade Out on late night TV.  Even the campy, stoner thrills of Biker's Heaven, the Easy Rider sequel, sounded like a potentially fun film to watch with a couple of properly medicated friends.  Its films like these that are the saving grace of Gore's frustratingly brief overview.<br />As a critic, Gore has never been one to emulate the psuedo-literary approaches made famous by Andrew Sarris and Pauline Kael.  And indeed, one wishes that he had gone into a lot more detail on most of the films he writes about in this book.  However, while his style leaves some of his less compelling unmade film favorites at a disadvantage, it also works wonders for the occasional film that actually has the spark of something special.  After reading his terse, to-the-point descriptions of Harrow Alley, I felt as if I had actually watched that film in all of its potential genius.  Whatever its flaws, this is a book to be commended.  Now hopefully, Gore or some other critic will work out the kinks in time for a second edition and give us a book that leaves us with no doubt that its unrealized films deserve to be known as the greatest.	2002-05-01
US	42230879	R1EUN8PTZ8H5TQ	9997512308	840259062	Live and Let Die	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Literary James Bond comes into his own	Live and Let Die was Ian Fleming's second book to feature the secret agent and future icon, James Bond and although the book directly follows up on the storyline started in the previous Casino Royale (i.e., Bond's initial motivation is revenge against the Soviet Smersh for the events at the end of that novel), Live and Let Die is in many ways a different animal entirely and a fairly good harbringer of the future emphasis on adventure and exotic villians and lovers that would dominate the series.  Whereas the Bond introduced in Casino Royale was, at times, surprisingly niave, Live and Let Die's James Bond is more in line with the death defying superspy that most think of when they here the term \\"007.\\"  Still, the Bond seen here is still much more vulnerable and, at times, much more ruthlessly unlikeable than the Bond film character -- an aspect the keeps this book rooted in reality and, in my opinion, makes the literary Bond far superior to his movie doppleganger.<br />The plot of Live and Let Die will probably be problematic for some politically correct readers.  James Bond travels from Harlem to Jamaica in pursuit of Mr. Big, a gangster and Soviet agent who also happens to be black and, at one point, proclaims that his goal is to be the first \\"great Negro criminal.\\"  Mr. Big's criminal organization is, as well, made up totally a blacks and a great deal of time is spent explaining that Big keeps his organization in line by exploiting their belief in voodoo.  Obviously, this is the type of stuff that makes some readers uncomfortable but one gets the feeling that Fleming would have enjoyed making them squirm.  When taken out of context, the book's plot can certainly sound like some '50s version of the infamous racist screed, the Turner Diaries, but upon actual reading, it becomes obvious that the book -- if, at times, showing the accepted stereotypes of the time it was written (even I cringed at Fleming's attempt to write dialect), is not itself meant to be racist --i.e., Big is a villian because he's evil and not because he's black.  And for that matter, he's also a very memorable and formidible villian -- every bit the equal of such later heavyweights as Blofeld and nowhere near as pathetic as Royale's Le Chiffre.  As well, Mr. Big's intricate scheme and the execution of it actually makes sense and Fleming maintains an admirable atmosphere of suspense and danger throughout the book.  Fleming's style here improves on the occasional awkwardness of Royale and he gives the reader a well-paced adventure filled with memorable characters and some startlingly strong action sequences.  (One need only compare this book's underwater scenes with the more languid scenes in Thunderball to see how well Fleming pulls them off.)<br />To go into any more detail of the plot would be unfair to the reader because most of the twists are genuine surprises (especially if one is expecting the book to be anything like the film).  This is a book full of remarkably strong scenes and writing -- amongst the most vivid are the fate of Felix Leiter, the painful torture inflicted on Bond in Harlem, and Fleming's hilariously dismissive view of Florida retirees -- and it is a must read for anyone who wants to discover what made James Bond such an icon in the first place.	2002-04-29
US	42230879	R2058AXDM8MP2	0743222903	816468637	The Big Enchilada: Campaign Adventures with the Cockeyed Optimists from Texas Who Won the Biggest Prize in Politics	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Reliving one of the strangest years in American history	If a lot of the what went on during the 2000 presidential election still remains a source of debate, at least one thing can be agreed upon.  The 2000 election was one of the strangest, most improbable elections in recent history.  Unfortunately, it has failed to produce the usual number of behind-the-scenes campaign memoirs that usually follow hard fought elections.  The majority of the books concerning the 2000 election all seem to center on the whole mess down in Florida and for the most part, are distinguished only by an unseemly amount of either bitterness or gloating depending on the partisan affiliations of their author.  However, there haven't been many of the fun, joy-of-politics type memoirs as one might expect.<br />Which is why the discovery of Stuart Stevens' The Big Enchilada filled this political junkie with an indescribable happiness.  Devoting only a bare miminum of its pages to reliving the whole Florida fiasco (Because who isn't sick of rehashing all of that by now?), the Big Enchilada is instead a lively, very witty account of the free wheeling and ultimately succesful presidential campaign for George W. Bush -- from its genesis in an Austin steakhouse all the way to the final lawsuit.  Writing in a breezy, always readable style, Stevens manages to avoid the pompous posturing that has marred so many other campaign books.   Nor does he use the book to try to turn himself into some sort of mythological hero (as opposed to the campaign memoirs of Dick Morris, Ed Rollins, and other political consultants.)  Instead, Stevens provides a witty account of all the campaign milestones that made up 2000 -- Bush's battle for the soul of the Republican Party with John McCain, the brief near-scandal over accusations of subliminal advertising being slipped into Bush campaign ads (and no, Stevens can't quite figure out just what all that was about either), and perhaps most wittily of all, the infamous Bush/Gore debates.  (A great deal of space is devoted to Bush'spreperations for the debates.  At one point, the Senator pretending to be Gore wanders over to Bush and tries to stare him down.  A laughing Bush replies, \\"Is he really going to do that?\\")  <br />Along with being a politcal consultant, Stevens is a novelist of some acclaim and he writes this book with a strong eye towards character.  People who were once only names become vividly human as a result of their memoir -- Karl Rove in all his intensely laid back glory, Al Gore with his school marmish attitude towards the very voters he sought to impress, and others.  George W. Bush, himself, comes across as a man so laid back and likeable that you almost regret that he had to lower himself down to the level of politics.  This is a book that even as it recounts the big events of the campaign, still finds time to record the little, human details that otherwise would never be reported.  Stevens' book is one of the best, most entertaining campaign memoirs -- of the 2000 or any other election -- ever written.	2002-04-24
US	42230879	R1NMV97S4TTUCZ	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A promising debut	Stephen King's first book, Carrie, is the story of Carrie White, a nerdy girl who has the power to move things with her mind. Living with her repressed mother, a religious fanatic who is almost comically over-the-top in her fear of sexuality (a theme that King would later treat with a more subtle hand in most of his later books). In the book's justifiably famous opening, 16 year-old Carrie starts her first menstural cycle while in the shower after gym class. The other girls in her class have a rather cruel, if all-too believable, reaction to Carrie's fright and this sets in motion a chain of events that leads to Carrie being invited to prom by the most popular (and apparently the only genuinely nice) boy in school, yet another terribly cruel practical joke being played on Carrie, and finally Carrie White's revenge. King's narrative alternates between telling Carrie's story and presenting \\"evidence\\" in the forms of excerpts from a survivor's memoir, articles in Esquire and Reader's Digest, a nicely off-center psychology textbook, and the reports of the government commission set up to cover up the implications of Carrie's final rampage. It all comes together in an effective but rather jagged mosiac that confirms that King had talent from the beginning but still makes for an uneven read. Indeed, King's trademark ability to create a cast of credible characters isn't extremely evident here with the key exception of the title character. Carrie White is, for all intents and purposes, a nerd and the pain that she feels and her conflicting responses of self-loathing with self-righteous, almost arrogant fury at how she is treated will be almost painfully familiar for anyone else who spent high school in that outcast social group (it certainly brought back a lot of not-quite cherished memories for myself). Its almost saddening to discover that King himself disliked Carrie and held her responsible for her misfortunes because his recreation of her pain is so spot on perfect thatone finds it hard to wonder how her creator couldn't have felt badly for her. No, she isn't always sympathetic and her final, destructive vengeance is carried out with intentionally murderous intent but its hard not to understand how her hatred was generated at the hands of the often thoughtless cruelty of teenage culture.  I don't know how someone who was popular in high school might react to the book but as a former high school nerd, I can say this brought back a lot of uncherished memories and Carrie's plight kept me enthralled despite the many times when the book felt rather uneven.<br />Though it might not matter much in the overall scheme of things, King also does a good job of making credible Tommy Ross, the jock wiseman who agrees to be seen at his school's prom with the school's most unpopular student, an action that sets forward the book's apocalyptic conclusion. Ross's noble choice in asking Carrie to the dance is not an entirely credible action and King, at times, is obviously trying to convince himself as much as the reader that this could actually realistically happen. However, in his few scenes, Tommy Ross is drawn as a sympathetic, believable character and is presented with such skill that one comes as close as possible to actually buying into the credibility of his actions. Though a relatively minor character, Tommy Ross is an early prototype for the plain-spoken, intelligent but unpretentious, defiantly blue collar characters who would make up the majority of King's future protaganists. <br />Back before he became THE Stephen King, Stephen King was a generally down-on-his-luck teacher living in obscurity in Maine and making a few extra bucks selling a few well-written horror stories to racy magazines (some of which, King has often recalled, ended up going out of business before getting around to publishing his fiction). Though it wasn't the first book he completed.  It is a novel of a writer still searching for his voice and who is writing in a genre that he is not totally comfortable embracing. Indeed, while the novel can be labelled a work of horror, it still contains signs of the insecurities and pretensions of the not-yet succesful King with Carrie's story, at times, being forced rather roughly into a metaphor for the whole decline of society in general. However, this is all probably meaningless nitpicking because in the end, the only that matters is that Carrie -- whatever its flaws -- is still a gripping read that grabs the reader's attention for page one and shows signs of the talent that would later make Stephen King a brand name.	2002-04-22
US	42230879	R1VJF084G7MEYE	0670030295	360273792	Roscoe	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A difficult review to write	Of all the reviews I've ever written for amazon, this has to be one of the most difficult.  I completed the latest novel in William Kennedy's Albany cycle two weeks ago and I'm still not quite sure what I think of it.  This is hardly meant as a negative comment.  Most books I read rarely linger in the memory past one or two days after I turn the final page.  However, Roscoe is a book that has haunted my mind.  If, while reading the book, I was occasionally frustrated by the feeling that -- as skillfull a writer as the author obviously is -- Kennedy had just missed the chance to create something great, I must also say that many of the darkly humorous, somewhat disturbing images that Kennedy paints have continued to haunt my mind.  I have always felt that the sign of a true work of art isn't how much it might entertain while you're experiencing it but how it affects the way you see your own reality once the initial experience is complete.  A great work of art for me is one that literally infects the world around you.  Roscoe is that type of art.  I'm not giving this book four stars because I feel its flawless but because its mysteries have stayed with me even after I expected them to be forgotten.<br />Impishly mixing fact and fantasy, Roscoe tells the story of the infamous Albany political machine of the early 20th century.  It was a machine that produced some great men while building its foundations on the actions of some very bad men and it is this juxtaposition that Kennedy gleefully juggles over the course of his narrative.  The fictional Roscoe Conway is a Falstaffian-figure that would -- at most -- probably be only a minor comedic henchman in most political novels, a man who has spent his life as something of an errand boy (albiet a very powerful errand boy) for the true leaders of the Albany political machine.  He's a drinker, a womanizer, and, if a lifetime of aiding political corruption and general graft has left him with the beginnings of a tortured soul, he manages to handle the pain with an admirable good humor.  The book opens with the end of World War II and as the nation celebrates, Roscoe's best friend mysteriously commits suicide.  Roscoe's attempts to understand his friend's death leads him on the expected soul-searching journey.  What's unexpected are the surreal detours that journey takes.  With poetic, freeform prose, Kennedy mixes accounts of Roscoe's rougish past with a present day storyline (involving his dead friend's widow's -- the woman Roscoe loves -- attempts to not lose custody of her adopted son) that at times seems to deliberately read like a parody of a Douglas Sirk film.  Throughout it all, Kennedy presents us with dream-like images that include Roscoe's dead friend coming to life just to immediately die once more, a nonsensical conversation with the Pope, and a brief aside that details Roscoe's late father's head blowing up like a balloon and bursting once it floats up to the ceiling.  What these images are meant to represent are left up to the reader, an admirable choice on Kennedy's part that will, nonetheless, leave many readers frustrated.  Is Roscoe truly remorseful over the sins of the past, does the widow truly deserve his or anyone's love, and is Albany's idealistic and youthful Mayor a brave hero or a self-righteous fool?  These are just a few of the questions that Kennedy forces his readers to ponder.  The book, to its own brave credit, declines to directly answer but instead leaves it up to the reader to sort through all the images and figure out what adds up to what.<br />But before I make Roscoe sound overly pretentious, it should be understood that this is a wonderfully entertaining book and the rapidly paced, cheerfully over-the-top storyline will hold the interest of most readers rather their searching for deeper literary meaning or just a good and enjoyable read.  If Kennedy leaves the reader with many mysteries, he also provides an all--too believable revisionist history of both New York and our country that manages to include acidic portraits of everyone from Franklin Roosevelt to Thomas Dewey (never named but obviously meant to be the gnomish Republican governor who causes the Albany machine such trouble) to gangster Legs Diamond.  Kennedy populates his political world with a lively and truly memorable gallery of humorous grotesques.  Every character -- from the lead character to the town's leading hooker to the definitely psychotic but still rather likeable police detective -- comes vividly to life in Kennedy's masterful prose.  Kennedy crafts his characters so that they possess enough quirks to keep the reader on his toes, yet he never commits the all-too common sin of mistaking quirkiness for motivation.  And, of course, Kennedy's Albany comes to brilliant life so that by the end of the novel even a dyed-in-the-wool Texan like myself can't help but love the city.  No, Roscoe is not a perfect novel but it is definitely one that should be read and cherished for both what it is and what the reader makes of it.	2002-04-10
US	42230879	R10HI57T93GW5T	0030707315	163485872	Warday and the Journey Onward	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Still powerful and disturbing	As a fictional novel skillfully designed to read as nonfiction, Warday is a sort of postapocalyptic Democracy in America.  Working on the disturbingly realistic premise that both the USA and the USSR end up destroying themselves in a thirty minute nuclear exchange in 1988, authors Whitley Strieber and James Kunetka tell the story of two writers -- named Whitley Strieber and James Kunetka -- who take a six week journey across the ruins of America to discover what has happened to both the nation and the world at large.  What they discover is not some postapocalyptic, science fiction epic of rampaging mutants and struggling survivors but instead a nation that has found itself cut off from the world it once led.  Their descriptions of how the loss of communications has left the war's survivors with little to no knowledge of what's happening outside of their own rag-tag communities is disturbingly plausible.  They find Americans who -- even as they speak of rebuilding society -- have obviously lost the sense of hope and pride that made their nation great to begin with.  It is a grim portrait of a world where medical treatment can only be given to the few who actually have a chance of survival, where children are born with the knowledge of their own eventual deaths, and where Americans are now dependent upon the support of other countries who now regard the former super power with a mixture of pity and contempt.<br />Warday was written in 1984 and as such, certain details are dated.  The USSR is no longer a nation and the already haunting scenes of a ruined New York are made even more poignant when narrator Strieber mentions his amazement to discover that the World Trade Center still dominates the city's ruined skyline.  That understood, the book still retains a strong and disturbing power.  Its easy to forget that when this book was written, most people believed that an eventual nuclear war with the USSR was not only likely but unavoidable.  Hence, this book isn't just awork of a vivid imagination.  Instead, its a portrait of a future that many felt was our eventual destiny.  As such, there is a sincerity running through the book that overcomes any minor details.  <br />That said, this is not a perfect book and occasionally, some of the author's conclusions (such as that a nuclear war would lead to a general mainstreaming of Wiccans) seem to be hopeful thinking.  As well, while Strieber and Kunetka's use of themselves as the main characters is a gimmick that actually succeeds, some of the real-life name dropping was occasionally a distraction (such as gothic novelist Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's intrusive cameo appearance as a private detective in California).  While Warday makes it obvious that a nuclear war is not a winnable proposition, the book's final thesis that the only way to avoid war is to get away from identifying one's enemies as evil is one that, perhaps unfairly, loses a bit of its power when one's enemy isn't the USSR but instead the likes of Osama Bin Laden.  <br />Still, this remains a powerful book and -- as we read daily about the efforts of such nations as Iraq and North Korea to develop nuclear weaponry of their own -- a timely warning about a future that we have yet to completely escape.	2002-04-08
US	42230879	R2EW1YIT4OGR1F	0935243046	815481773	There Ain't No Justice - Just Us	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A rare example of polemical fiction that works	There Ain't No Justice, Just Us (which is, I might add, a great title) is the story of David, a veteran of the '60s protest movement who now finds himself living out of place and time in an impersonal Chicago.  Just as the city seems to be slowly dying, so has David's once firm faith in Marxism.  Unlike his former comrades, David has remained an activist and as a result, his marriage his crumbling and he risks seeing his children taken away from him.  Hoping to rediscover his political faith, David takes a job at ChicagoLard, a Hellish factory where he helps to organize the racially divided workers into organizing a strike that leads them into increasingly heated conflict with both their bosses and their own union.  There Ain't No Justice, Just Us is an unabashedly political novel.  It wears its Marxist sympathies on its sleeve and, like a modern day Upton Sinclair, author Gregory Alan Norton peppers his plot with scenes in which his characters discuss and defend socialism against premature reports of the movement's death.  What sets Norton's novel apart from other political novels is that Norton never allows his ideology to overwhelm his story or characters.  As opposed to other Marxist writers,  Norton allows his politics to come through the character as opposed to crudely shaping his characters to force them to conform to political theory.  As a result, Norton is an honest enough writer to create human capitalists and flawed socialists instead of creating a black-and-white polemic.  Ranging from his own sometimes rather crude narrator to the strikers' flamboyant attorney Lexy (who comes across as everything Bella Abzug was supposed to be) to the book's most complicated character, a Neo-Nazi mechanic who turns out to be the most committed striker as well as the least trustworthy, the book is full of memorable and vivid characters who capture the reader's interest.  Whether or not one agrees with Norton's politics (and, as my other reviews should make obviously, Iam one hundred eighty degrees to the right of the author), its hard not to care about these characters and impossible not to become emotionally involved in the outcome of their struggle.  This is a book that I would recommend to any open minded reader interested in modern political fiction -- one need not agree with Norton to admire the craft and skill with which he delivers his message.  Gregory Alan Norton is not a household name and There Ain't No Justice, No Just Us is an independently-published, \\"underground\\" book.  However, that doesn't change the fact that Norton has managed to pull off what so many more bestselling authors have continually failed to accomplish.  He has written a proudly and defiant left-wing novel that can impress and enthrall even as right-wing a reader as myself.	2002-04-05
US	42230879	R3SG19C33ZRYIM	0671039741	165977133	'Salem's Lot	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Uneven but effective	Salem's Lot was one of Stephen King's early novels and as such, its interesting to compare this uneven but undeniably effective book to his later, more confident works.  The book, of course, features all the elements that have become King's trademarks -- a writer protaganist, an outcast child who teeters on a premature adulthood, a small Maine town that is disrupted by the arrival of strangers, and violent, disturbing events framed in a very recognizable reality.  At the same time, the not-yet succesful King was obviously still struggling to find his voice as he wrote this book.  The result is an effective, if flawed, thriller with a strong undercurrent of social commentary.<br />Salem's Lot was King's vampire novel and he himself has admitted to basically lifting the plot of Dracula and simply updating it to the early seventies and moving the action from Europe to the small town of Jerusalem's Lot.  King's novels tells of how the urbane vampire Kurt Barlow comes to this town and, over the course of a month, turns almost the entire population into members of the undead.  Standing against Barlow are a small, frightened group of characters that will be recognizable to anyone who has read King's novels -- a writer, a nerdy child, a priest struggling with his faith, and a burned-out public school teacher amongst others.  <br />Salem's Lot was written before Anne Rice and Buffy the Vampire Slayer helped to redefine the genre and read today, King's book comes across as a trifle old-fashioned.  King's vampires are the type of blood suckers that have inhabited countless horror novels over the year and as a result, they lack a certain amount of mystery.  As well, Barlow is obviously based on Stoker's Dracula and, as such, he never becomes quite as vivid a villian as such later threats as It's Pennywise.  Though the book does have its frightening moments, it rarely reaches the type of visceral terror that distinguishes later King books.  However, the book does have an undeniable power -- one that doesn't leave the reader screaming but does leave one uneasy and disturbed once the story is over.  Setting his book clearly in the 1970s (references to Watergate, the civil unrest of the '60s, and others abound), King uses the collapse of Salem's Lot to mirror what then-seemed to be the irrevirsible decline of America itself with vampirism becoming a metaphor for the break down of society.  Its a big subject -- especially for a young writer -- and King doesn't quite pull it off but its still a relavent message and does add a resonance to the story that otherwise wouldn't be there.  King manages to perfectly capture the feel of his small town and its citizens and the scenes were he describes its slow death are truly haunting.  <br />If Salem's Lot is hardly a perfect novel, it is a novel that displays the promise of King's later works.  And even while his talent was still maturing, King knew how to write what-used-to-be-called a \\"page turner.\\"  The plot moves quickly, the pace never lags, and -- as opposed to some of his later, more acclaimed works -- King never allows his own style to get in the way of telling his story.  In the end, the best recommendation one can give Salem's Lot is that its a good read.  And that's not bad in the least.	2002-03-22
US	42230879	R3PIMZQF5C790J	1929976003	592011163	Texas Weather: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good read	Tricia Allen's debut novel Texas Weather is the definition of the term \\"a good read.\\"  While that term is often deployed as a back handed compliment, that is not the case with this fun and highly readable novel.  Taking place in Dallas, Texas directly after the second world war, Texas Weather tells the story of an ambitious, womanizing assistant district attorney.  Essentially a good man at heart, our hero is haunted by both the sins of the past (especially regarding his rogue of a father's mysterious death) and the present (in this case, represented by a wealthy serial killer known as \\"the maniac,\\" whose evil is as graphic and disturbing as anything to be found in the works of Thomas Harris).  As he attempts to deal with a spurned mistress and the inner office politics of the DA's office, he also finds himself attracted to a mysterious young woman who brings a deadly past of her own into his life.  Plotwise, the book is often enjoyably over-the-top and readers who obsess over how everything logically adds up will be missing the point and the enjoyment of Allen's novel.  Texas Weather isn't so much about the mechanics of its story as much as its about presenting a vivid and memorable portrait of a Dallas of the recent past, a town standing on the line between the violent frontier past and the more civilized future and grappling with which side to stumble onto.  Allen's prose is readable with several witty and clever passages that keeps the reader turning the pages.  As well, Allen is to be commended for creating a memorable cast of Texas eccentrics and then allowing them to run rampant through her book.  Texas Weather is a book that bodes well for Allen's future as a novelist and should be enjoyed  by anyone with a taste for the classic pulp mysteries of yesterday.	2002-03-11
US	42230879	R2CNLZ5L12YYCQ	0896331490	453321719	Capturing the Culture: Film, Art, and Politics	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Of all the former CIA agents turned film reviewer...	Of all the former American expatriates turned CIA agents to eventually become nationally syndicated film reviewers, the late Richard Grenier was undoubtly the best.  From the late '70s to the early '90s, his reviews and pop cultural musings were often a highlight of each issue of Commentary.  Often, Grenier found himself in a lone position of dissent on many films -- this was because of both his conservative politics and his absolute refusal to endorse any form of intellectual dishonesty.  Though his writings touched on the very serious subjects of the role of the political in American arts (Grenier largely felt it had no place), his writings were often quite humorous and he had a sardonic wit that truly set him apart from most of the Ebert/Siskel-wannabes of recent years.  Though his reviews may have gone against the current trends, history has often shown him to be, more or less, correct.  For proof of this, one need only read Capturing the Culture, a collection of Grenier's reviews and essays.  <br />Amongst the highlights included in this book are Grenier's sarcastic look at the then-beatification of Ghandi as a result of Attenborough's film, his look at how the self-promoting Donald Woods tried to make himself a martyr by exploiting the murder of Stephen Biko in Cry Freedom, a hilarious essay-length review on Warren Beatty's film Reds and Hollywood's uneasy attempts to make Bolsheviks \\"cuddly,\\" an attempt to figure out why the characters in the Big Chill were all so shallow, and an imaginative review of the Last Emperor written in the voice of the Last Emperor.  Perhaps the two strongest essays both deal with Grenier's observations at two separate PEN conferences in which he presents amusing portraits of such literary lights of Gunther Grass, Allen Ginsberg, Norman Mailer, Amos Oz, Betty Friedan, Mario Vargas Llosa, and many others attempting to influence U.S. foreign policy through signing petitions and giving pompous speeches about the role of the role of artin politics.  <br />Richard Grenier died earlier this year and, unfortunately, the majority of his writings remain uncollected.  However, one is thankful that we have at least Capturing the Culture to remember at least one decade of this man's sometimes-hilarious, sometimes-infuriating, always-fascinating critical thoughts.	2002-03-06
US	42230879	R3TV8OYR1TNN42	0345449703	208132165	Inside Oscar 2	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	Well worth the wait	Finally, after seven years of silence, Damien Bona has released an update to the classic Inside Oscar.  Much as he and late coauthor Mason Wiley did in the first book, Damien Bona covers the latest couple of years of deplorable nominations, outrageous omissions, and unbelievable star antics that make the Academy Awards such an irresistible farce.  Picking up where the first volume left off, Inside Oscar 2 covers the Academy from 1995 through the year 2000.  Along with giving detailed accounts of each year's \\"Big Night,\\" (and fans of the first book should rest assured that the subtle yet savage humor that distinguished the first book returns just as strong for the update), Bona also gives us the details of each year's prenomination race -- the surefire winners that fizzled, the behind-the-scenes battles of some of recent history's most popular films, and as always, the amazingly bizarre statements made by the folks that make up Hollywood.  (In many ways, reading the book was like revisiting a fever dream and discovering it wasn't a dream at all.  When one reads of James Cameron jumping up and down while screaming \\"I'm King of the World!\\" on national television, one's initial instinct is to think that the writer is simply being cartoonish but then the long-block memories come flooding back and we realize that yes, we actually did sit there and watch as he did that.)  <br />Delayed, in part, by the death of Mason Wiley, Inside Oscar 2 is written entirely by Damien Bona, one of the most acerebic and opinionated of current film historians.  Without the presumed tempering influence of his collaborator, Bona's sardonic wit stings whenever Bona gets onto the subject of films that he obviously felt didn't deserve their Academy accolades.  As a result, Inside Oscar 2 actually carries a bit more bite to it than the previous volume.  As opposed to the first book, no attempt is made to hide the author's cinematic opinions and he delivers them in sharp, double-edged prose that will the warm the heart of anyone who watched pop culture evolve over the past decade and thought to themselves, \\"I just don't get it.\\"  His critiques of such Oscar winners as Braveheart and Gladiator are often both devastatingly funny and insightful.  While Bona's savage ridicule of Titanic will probably generate the most emotions, perhaps the most surprising object of his venom is American Beauty, an Oscar winner that would, at first, seem tailor made for one of Bona's outspoken views.  However, Bona is instead unfailingly critical of the 1999 Best Picture winner which he faults for being basically a TV sitcom version of a satire, for being blatantly anti-female, for being blindly homophobic, for actually managing to miscast Kevin Spacey even while winning him an Oscar, and for basically being a great deal of fury signifying nothing.  These are the same feelings that I and a lot of others felt when we first saw this film and they are feelings that grow with each subsequent viewing.  However, to my knowledge, nobody has better explained those feelings and made a case against the most acclaimed film of the '90s with the skill and wit displayed by Damien Bona.<br />If I did have any problem with this book, it was that Bona's witty barbs -- so powerful against overrated films -- are less strong when he directs them towards politics, which Bona does often.  While his film commentary carries the ring of hidden truth, Bona's occasional comments about each year's political headlines often go beyond sarcasm and into the realm of truly nasty bitterness (though this could be my own politics speaking; if I were a liberal, I'd probably love Bona's attacks on Bob Dole, George W. Bush, and Orrin Hatch).  It's a nastiness that, the few times its surfaces, is dreadfully out-of-place in what is otherwise an insightful, informative, and hilarious social history of American film in the 1990s.  But that's a small quibble.  This book is a must have for anyone who loved the first Inside Oscar, anyone who considers themselves to be a lover of Hollywood's vulgar rituals, and especially anyone who happens to have a sense of humor. And if you don't have a sense of humor -- well, buy the book anyway!  Just skip over the parts about Titanic...	2002-02-22
US	42230879	RXXO1RIT88DWC	0939766965	589017129	The Uncanny X-Men: The Dark Phoenix Saga	Books	5	74	79	N	N	A wonderful trip into the past...	This graphic novel reprints one of the classic X-Men stories of old -- the Dark Phoenix saga.  For those who might not be up on their comic history, the Dark Phoenix Saga told the story of how Jean Grey -- one of the original X-Men -- found herself cruelly manipulated by the evil mutant Mastermind until she finally lost control of her own powers and became a threat to the very future of the universe.  In the end, it falls to the X-Men (led by Jean's lover, Cyclops) to either bring her back to sanity or destroy her.  This was perhaps the pinnacle of the Chris Claremont/John Byrne creative team and certainly very few subsequent X-Men stories have come close to touching the quality of the Dark Phoenix Saga.  Chris Claremont's secret as a comic book writer was that he never wrote down to his audience.  While some others might have simply said, \\"Hey, it's only a comic book,\\" and cashed in their paycheck, Chris Claremont approached his X-Men stories with a sincerity and integrity that elavated the best of his work out of the super hero genre.  As always the characterization of the individual X-Men is strong with Wolverine truly coming into his own.  Even the usually somewhat dull Cyclops is given one of his few chances to shine in this story and Claremont manages to present a multifaceted view of this sometimes overly upright figure.  The dialogue, especially Cyclops' final monolouge on the moon, is also far more powerful (and at times genuinely witty) than what is generally expected from a \\"comic book.\\"  Over the course of this story, Claremont and Byrne introduced several characters that would later become key ingrediants to the X-Men's success -- the Hellfire Club, Dazzler, Kitty Pryde, and all of them show their future promise from their very first appearances.<br />I was a kid when these issues first came out and I can remember what an impact they had on me at the time.  Not to be overdramatic but back in 1980, the fate of Jean Grey affected me much the same way thefate of Jay Gatsby affects me now.  Now, some might scoff at that or say that its easier to please children but that's not true.  Even more so than adults, children and young teens can spot when someone's just going through the motions.  Every year, hundreds of new comic books are released.  Most cease publication after less than six issues.  X-Men survived.  It takes a lot to make an impact on you when you're young and that was what made Claremont and Byrne's X-Men so popular.  Unlike future writers and artists, they never took their audience for granted.  With the Dark Phoenix Sage, they crafted one of the great legends of my youth.  When I recently reread it, I do so for the sake of nostalgia but I was overjoyed to discover that even though I'd gotten older and subsequent events in the X-Men had cheapened a lot of what those earlier issues were about, the story hadn't suffered.  As both a piece of childhood nostalgia and as a story held up on its own considerable terms, the Dark Phoenix Saga is a powerful piece of work and it is a must-have for all comic book fans -- past, present, and future.	2002-02-21
US	42230879	RRLWWU2J34Y6	0815605048	740863823	Television's Second Golden Age: From Hill Street Blues to ER (Television and Popular Culture)	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Required reading for students of television	This is a brief but entertaining and convincing argument for the artistic value of one of the most unfairly condemended media outlets -- television.  Working from the hypothesis that the quirky dramas that dominated television from the '70s to the '90s (Hill Street Blues, St. Elsewhere, thirtysomething, ect.) actually made up television's second golden age, author Robert J. Thompson actually makes a pretty good argument for taking TV seriously.  Each chapter provides detailed (and refreshingly witty) analysis of all the TV shows that we previously took for granted and shows how the writers and producers of those shows were able to create great art in the guise of great entertainment.  Of particular worth was Thompson's long and informative chapter on St. Elsewhere, over the course of which he manages to break down a few of that show's intricate inside jokes and show how the show's controversial final episode actually served as a powerful and still-relavent statement on the state of television and American culture today.  This book is a must read for anyone who sees television as more than just a distraction.	2002-02-20
US	42230879	R321TICG79RGNU	0871138255	745066592	The CEO of the Sofa	Books	4	8	12	N	N	PJ O'Rourke's latest	As any conservative or Libertarian can tell you, we needed a sense of humor to survive the last few years of the Clinton Administration and luckily, a few brave humorists like PJ O'Rourke were there to provide it.  O'Rourke's latest book, the CEO of the Sofa, is a collection essays covering the end of 2000 and the first few months of 2001.  O'Rourke presents them in a slightly new format that will probably catch his fans off guard.  In an hommage to Oliver Wendell Holmes' The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, O'Rourke's essays are worked into a fictional narrative that details the opinions and reactions of O'Rourke's skeptical wife, his children, his generation Xish (or is that Yish) assistant, the Democrats next door, the Political Nut who Lives Around Here, and others.  Through these asides, O'Rourke paints himself as a somewhat befuddled, middle-aged ex-Hippie trying to make his way through a world that's started to move past him.  Personally, I enjoyed these experiments though I know that several other O'Rourke regulars did not.  It's a matter of taste, really.  It does somewhat lessen the sting of some of O'Rourke's barbs to then read about his inability to use the internet and I don't think it would be wise for him to continue this format as I really don't see what else he can do with it.  Still, as a one-time experiment, it makes for an interesting read and it doesn't change the fact that his critique of modern American politics and politicians remains as hilarious and sharp as ever.  Highlights include his analysis of the United Nations, his recap of the impeachment trial, fairy tales rewritten for Democrats, and his examination of whether or not Hillary Clinton is actually secretly very stupid.  Other highlights include a wine tasting excursion with Christopher Buckley and an essay on celebrities O'Rourke has never heard of.  As always, O'Rourke's barbs will warm the heart of anyone who could bring themselves to believe that Bill Clinton was actually the leader of the Free World.  As others have stated, the book's experimental nature probably makes it prohibitive to people who are new to O'Rourke's style of writing and humor but if you're a fan of PJ O'Rourke's, you'll find much to enjoy in this book.	2002-02-12
US	42230879	R1J8GC9B9QHE0F	0520217853	82752604	Inside Prime Time	Books	3	10	13	N	Y	Dated but still interesting	Written in the early '80s, Inside Prime Time was long considered to be one of the quissential books to be written about the business about how a small group of insiders shaped American culture through television.  The book has since become quite dated.  Author Gitlin, best known as a former '60s radical and a co-founded of the SDS, is highly complimentary of what -- at that time -- was then the dominating creative forces on television, the socially relavent comedies of Norman Lear and the humanistic dramas -- like Lou Grant and the White Shadow -- that came out of MTM productions.  As such, many of his predictions for the future of television would be blown out of the water by the advent of such comedies as Seinfeld and, to a lesser extent, less topical dramas like ER and the rise of HBO programming like the Sopranos, OZ, and Larry Sanders Show.  That being said, the book still remains an interesting look at how television shows were sold and produced during the '70s and '80s and his argument that television is essentially controlled by a network of \\"insiders\\" and \\"social friends\\" who go out of their way to prevent any outsiders from getting a hold in their industry (and therefore prevent anything new or unusual from reaching the screen) remains relavent and, probably, accurate.  Less succesful are Gitlin's attempts to argue that the entertainment industry, despite all appearances to the contrary, is actually a right-wing institution with a strong Republican bias.  In these chapters, it appears that Gitlin allows his own political feelings to get in the way of serious scholarship and his own rather paranoid prediction that the then-recent election of Ronald Reagan would somehow lead to an artistic wasteland on television have since been descredited.  (For all the dark portense that entertainment folks seem to use when talking about how Republicans equal censorship, it was during the Reagan/Bush administration that networks were actually willing to risk airing quality but hardly widely popular TV shows like St. Elsewhere, thirtysomething, Hill Street Blues, Cagney and Lacey, Moonlighting, and Twin Peaks.)  <br />However, its perhaps unfair to condemn this book for making a few incorrect predictions.  Afterall, hindsight is 20/20 and certainly, its easy to forget just how much of a mystery Reagan and conservatives in general were back when the '80s were just beginning.  The book's true value remains in its two most interesting chapters.  Since these chapters are both histories as opposed to analysis, one can simply focus on Gitlin's lively and witty writing style and enjoy the way he makes even the most mundane details seem like pivotal moments of human drama.  The first of these chapters tells the story of American Dream, a forgotten, one-hour drama that lasted for only a few episodes in the late '70s.  American Dream, produced by future Cagney and Lacey producer Barney Rosenzweig (who is widely quoted in the chapter and becomes a vivid character as a result; one is torn between sympathy for his obviously sincere artistic intentions and disgust by his banal attempts at self-promotion), was the story of a white man who decides to move his family to a widely black section of Chicago in order to teach his kids what real life is like.  It sounds like a typical '70s television show and, despite Gitlin's claims to the contrary, it also sounds like a rather annoying, typically elitist example of '70s liberal chic (while many people are quoted in the chapter saying that the show had to be toned down to appeal to the widest possible audience, nobody seems to wonder what the point is of making a \\"realistic\\" television show about life in a black ghetto where all the main characters are white).  Anyway, what were told about the show and the scripts make it all sound terribly banal and the chapter, despite Gitlin's intentions, becomes a rather compelling look at how entertainment insiders often delude themselves about the value of their product.  Beyond that, however, the detailed stories of the conflicts that doomed the show (from the miscasting of Ned Beatty as the lead to the firing of the head writer and the eventual forcing out of producer Rosenzweig) make for interesting reading and should serve as a strong cautionary tale for anyone who wants to make it in the industry.<br />The other chapter deals with the creation of Hill Street Blues and remains the most important and detailed analysis of what made that show ground breaking television.  Drawing from revealing interviews with men like Steven Bochco and Brandon Tartikoff (at the time, neither was as well known as they'd become), Gitlin reveals how sometimes the insider politics of the tv industry somehow conspire to create something special and groundbreaking and its rather inspiring.  After the discouraging portrait painted by the failure of American Dream, Gitlin's analyis of Hill Street Blues is a nice reminder that sometimes, somehow, things actually do work the way they should.  Though Gitlin admits that he felt Hill Street Blues eventually sold itself out in the name of ratings, he still shows why the success of that show proves that television actually can play an important and positive role in the American culture it has so often been accused of corrupting.<br />Inside Prime Time isn't perfect but its must reading for anyone planning on pursuing a career behind-the-scenes entertainment or who occasionally watches the flicking onscreen images and wonders what chaos raged behind-the-scenes to create the slick world they're now viewing.	2002-01-29
US	42230879	R26SJV15WZ6HPP	0685116301	288292282	You Only Live Twice	Books	3	23	27	N	N	The SPECTRE Trilogy concludes	Taking place nine months after the tragic ending of On Her Majesty's Secret Service, You Only Live Twice was the last of Ian Fleming's truly completed Bond books.  (The Man With The Golden Gun, released after Fleming's untimely death, is considered by many to be only a first draft.)  It also served as the conclusion to the trilogy, beginning in Thunderball and continuing through OHMSS, that detailed James Bond's epic battle against Ernest Stavro Blofeld, founder of SPECTRE and essentially the anti-Bond.  (Blofeld, we are reminded, refrains from almost all excessive behavior -- even being described as a virgin in Thunderball though he later somehow contracted syphillis in the later books.  Of course, while he doesn't smoke or drink, he does seem to spend a lot of time thinking up ways to blow up the world.)  While Fleming's prose is better than ever in this novel (showing his uncanny ability to mix sophisticated urbanity with hardboiled cynicism), its still somewhat of a disappointing end to the trilogy.<br />The plot does start out quite promisingly.  Nine months following the death of his wife, James Bond has sunk into an alcoholic wave of depression.  M, rather cold hearted in this book after being humanized in OHMSS, comes close to terminating his service but instead, gives Bond a mission designed to respark his love of espionage.  Bond is sent to Japan to try to convince the head of the Japanese secret service -- Tiger Tanaka -- to ally himself with the English.  These sections of the book are very strong.  Bond's mission is believable, the plot (which is quite cynical while detailing how even allies like America and England are actually rivals when it comes to espionage) is compelling, and Tiger Tanaka is one of Fleming's strongest connections.  The scenes in which Bond learns about Japanese culture (while containing the well-meaning condascension that of which Fleming -- like most writers of that era regardless of genre or nationality -- was often guilty) arewell-written and actually quite interesting.  Quite late in the book, Tanaka recruits Bond to investigate the Suicide Gardens of the mysterious Dr. Shatterhand (again, a very promising premise -- Shatterhand basically has constructed a garden of poisonous plants designed to encourage visitors to commit suicide).  This investigation leads to Bond's final battle with Blofeld and it is here that the book, unfortunately, disappoints.  Blofeld feels like a tacked-on addition and, unlike the previous books, his plot makes absolutely no sense.  (Fleming even admits this when Bond concludes that Blofeld's gone insane -- however, his scheme is so ludicrous that it actually detracts from his status as a worthy antagonist to Bond.)  Whereas the previous books made Blofeld as fascinating a character as Bond, in this book both of them feel a little bit bland and as a result, their final battle doesn't carry the emotional wallop one might have hoped for.  <br />However, in Fleming's defense, it should be noted that he was quite ill when he wrote this book and it is a testament to his often maligned talents that, even while ailing, he still managed to create a book that -- while uneven as a whole -- still contained some fantastically strong early scenes and a character as vivid as Tiger Tanaka.  No, this book is not perfect or even one of the best Bond novels but it will still be enoyed by fans of the original Fleming novels.	2002-01-28
US	42230879	RU32ZRJNQ73GX	0399148159	52509146	Deep Water	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Disney gets skewered	Many years ago, on a classic episode of the Simpsons, Dr. Hibbert was explaining the very rare evil gene, which -- when found -- indicated complete evil.  \\"Hitler had it,\\" Hibbert explained, \\"Walt Disney had it...\\"  At the time, I found the line hilariously over-the-top yet somehow strangely true.  Whether its the total and complete commercialization of its beloved roster of characters or the endless hype machine that saturates America every summer when a new musical is released, there's always been something strangely sinister about the Disney Corporation.  No matter how enjoyable the classic Disney cartoons may have been, it's hard to forget about stories of Disney lawyers swarming on day care centers that dare to put up pictures of Mickey Mouse without asking permission and paying royalties.  Even though I have often found the various Disney Theme Parks to be the Happiest Place on Earth, there's still always been a strange undercurrent of paranoia, a gnawing feeling that I was in the presence of pure evil.<br />Apparently, I'm not alone in this, as S.V. Date's comedic thriller Deep Water proves.  Date, a veteran Florida journalist, presents us with a portrait of Whipple World, a theme park/retirement community that has been created primarily to make money for the once-benevolent, now-black-hearted Whipple Corporation.  As Date's quickly-paced plot unfolds, we quickly learn that all is not well at Whipple.  The corporation is losing money, Whipple World's planned retirement community is being subverted by elderly suburban guerillas, and -- lastly -- Whipple World itself has been rocked by a few unexplained deaths.  Ernest Warner, a burned-out reporter who has traded his idealism for the chance to end his career writing Whipple puff pieces for the local paper, is assigned to write yet another glorified publicity piece for Whipple but, with the help of the lovely Emma Whipple, he slowly undercovers a convuluted scheme to solve Whipple's financial woes at the expenseof a couple hundred lives and the environmental stability of Southern Florida.  It all branches out into a rather convuluted plot involving a lecherous choreographer-turned-small-town-Mayor, a demolitions man trying to come to terms with his own sexuality, a sherriff with a foot fetish, and two fun-loving, if psychotic, polar bears.  Mostly, its just an excuse to poke some serious fun at the latter day Disney Corporation and the book does so with an intoxicating relish.  As might be expected with a plot this huge, the satire runs out of gas before the end of the book and a few attempts to make a serious statement seem obtrusive when surrouned by such over-the-top antics.  However, this is a genuinely fun book and Date keeps the book moving at a quick pace that manages to gloss over the occasional joke that doesn't quite work.  While Ernest and Emma are intensely likeable protaganists (one hopes to see them in a future book), the other characters are all wild stereotypes but a wild stereotype is still a lot more entertaining then the boring stereotypes that seem to populate so many other books.  All in all, this book is a good, fun way to kill off an afternoon and satisfy any secret fears about what might really lurk within the heart of Disney.	2002-01-24
US	42230879	R40SIOLSOGE2I	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	184	202	N	N	An exhilirating read	Usually great books are either turned into mediocre films or else great films are made from mediocre books (and we won't even get into the sordid details of the novelizations).  Fight Club is one of the rare instances where a great film was made from a great book.  It is perhaps unfair to mention the film version while discussing the book as they are actually two very different animals.  (And animal is the right word -- perhaps uniquely amongst contemporary novelists, Chuck Palahniuk writes novels that seem to live in the reader's hands, often threatening at any minute to lunge for the throat.)  While most of the film's incidents are in the book and much of the razor-sharp dialouge is reproduced directly from the page, the book actually has a far greater satiric edge than the film.  Whereas the film used the story as a celebration of nihilism, the book is far too self-aware to allow itself to truly celebrate anything.  As such, it becomes less a call to action and more a devastatingly real portrait of a society that has become so commercialized and codified that even the once primal act of revolution becomes just another submission to pop culture.<br />Fight Club is the story of an unnamed narrator, an insomniac yuppie who spends his days helping insurance companies get out of having to pay their claims.  He wanders through a meaningless life until he discovers the emotional release of attending therapy groups for people suffering from various deadly (and rather embarressing) diseases -- all of which the narrator pretends to have.  When the arrival of another \\"faker\\" (the wonderfully dark Marla Singer, whose role is far less central in the book than in the film), the narrator finds even the shallow comfort of testicular cancer self-help groups has been taken away from him.  Luckily for him, he happens to meet Tyler Durden around this time.  And it is Tyler who introduces him to the concept of fighting.  What starts as a few rounds in a bar parking lot soon transforms into the nationwide movement known as Fight Club.  Every night, yuppies gather together and proceed to beat each other up and get in touch with the pure destructive instinct that society has forced them to suppress.  From this violent but relatively benign concept, Tyler sets out to build up an even more extreme movement and our narrator finds his own life suddenly spiraling out of control.  To go into any greater details would be unfair to those who have seen neither the film nor the book.  All that need be said is that the story never goes where you expect it too and the final twists -- while seeming a bit outlandish at first -- ultimately make a great deal of somewhat sickening sense. As complex as the plot eventually becomes, Palahnuik handles it all with a sparse, deceptively calm style that makes this book the literal epitome of a \\"page turner\\" -- once you start reading, you are hooked and it is truly impossible to exit the hauntingly and humorously dark world he's created until you reach the end.  Palahnuik proves himself to be an admirably subtle humorist and perhaps the funniest parts of the book comes from the reader's sudden realization that Fight Club has eventually become not so much a group of guerilla freedom fighters in the culture wars but instead simply a twisted mirror image of the weepy self-help groups that it seems to stand against.  While the film's final twist remains the same in the book, the end results are far more different.  While I personally favor the film's ending, both book and film build up to a strong conclusion that will stick with the reader long after completion.  Both the film and the book are truly original works of American Art and to see or read one without the other is to miss out on two exhilirating, similar but ultimately quite different experiences.	2002-01-23
US	42230879	R1Z0JDXEDB5CU8	0316115894	973184242	The Redhunter: A Novel Based on the Life of Senator Joe McCarthy	Books	5	18	22	N	N	A great book about a less than great man	If you're a conservative with a lot of liberal friends than you know all about the Great McCarthy Excuse, the leftist argument that essentially runs as follows: &quot;Well, sure, Bill Clinton may have permanently corrupted the American political system and killed innocent civilians in pointless military campaigns designed to keep him from getting impeached, but hey, at least, he wasn't Joe McCarthy!&quot; Nearly fifty years after his disgrace and death, Joe McCarthy remains an all-purpose boogeyman to be trotted out whenever it appears that the Republican Party might be on the verge of making a valid argument. Never mind that McCarthy was a former Democrat and, outside of his anti-communist crusade, was known as a bit of a tax-and-spend liberal. Never mind that conservaitve intellectuals were some of the first denounce him even while such liberal icons as the Kennedy Family continued to support him. Nope, McCarthy is the all-purpose right-wing demon of the leftist imagination and nothing's going to change that. And anything done wrong by a &quot;liberal&quot; will apparently always be justified by the memory of U.S. Sen. Joseph McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin.<BR>If you're like me, you got wise to the shallowness of that argument early on and soon became rather irritated at the way the name &quot;McCarthy&quot; was used an all-purpose justifyer for any amount of fuzzy-headed thinking. That's what makes William F. Buckley's novel, The Redhunter, such a joy to read. Telling the story of Joe McCarthy's rise and fall, the book never defends the man's excesses (and, indeed, no true conservative would ever defend the trampling of civil liberties seen during the McCarthy era) but at the same time, never makes the mistake of using McCarthy's mistakes to downplay the very real treat that Stalin's Soviet Union and its totalitarian brand of Marxism posed to the world. And, most signifigantly, it is perhaps the first and only book -- fiction and nonfiction -- to actually makean attempt to show Joe McCarthy as a deeply flawed human being as opposed to some mustache-twirling villian from a '30s melodrama.<br />The book tells two parallell and intersecting stories of two young men. The first concerns Joe McCarthy himself. Beginning with his own rise to power from a small-town Wisconsin pig farmer to a member of the U.S. Senate, the book paints a sympathetic but still very critical picture of the man. McCarthy comes across as neither a saint nor an ogre but instead a rather insecure if charismatic man who, paradoxically, dealt with his insecurity by entering politics and trying to get every voter to love him. Once in the Senate, McCarthy proves himself to be less than an intellectual giant and, desperate not to lose the love of the voters, latches onto the anticommunist movement as a way to save his own career. The book makes no secret that McCarthy was often exagerrating when he spoke of his evidence of &quot;communists&quot; in the State Department and it is also unflinching in showing that McCarthy didn't have the backbone to stand up to the more unscrupolous aides who attached themselves to his star (especially Roy Cohn, who appears only fleetingly in the book's final sections). McCarthy's crimes are portrayed not so much as crimes of malice but instead as crimes of stupidity and Buckley is very deft in showing how 1950s liberals cannily exploited that stupidity to obscure the truth about communism and further their own goals. Its a rather compelling and totally valid interpretation of the era that, in these politically correct times, is rarely allowed to be heard and Buckley is to be commended for finally allowing this view to see the light of day.<br />The other main character is Harry Bentecou, a young academic and anti-communist who is an obvious stand-in for Buckley himself. Harry becomes an aide to McCarthy and sadly watches as the Senator's excesses get out of control and lead to both his downfall and the temporary descreditingof the American anti-communist movement. If Harry's scenes occasionally reek a bit of melodrama, they still present one of the great untold facts of American political history and that is that the modern conservative movement was founded by often-ridiculed anti-communist intellectuals like Harry. This is the movement that would be presumed dead after the defeat of Barry Goldwater in 1964 just to eventually make a triumphant come back with the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980. Full of sharply drawn characters and perfectly realized scenes, the Redhunter is perhaps Buckley's finest novel to date. With humorous but devastating portraits of such historical figures as Eisenhower and especially Dean Acheson, The Redhunter is a valuable book that gives us a compelling view of history that, unfortunately, we aren't usually allowed to consider. All in all, a triumph that will be loved by conservatives and liberals willing to read with an open mind.	2002-01-22
US	42230879	R3P89GRFMSRSH9	0685114686	170427841	On Her Majesty's Secret Service	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Fleming reclaims Bond	One of the last of the original Bond Books, On Her Majesty's Secret Service is also one of the best.  Picking up a year after the end of Thunderball, this book finds James Bond again battling the nefarious schemes of Ernest Stavro Blofeld and SPECTRE and, most importantly, falling in love with the beautiful, resourceful, and ultimately tragic Tracy.  Though the usual intrigue is well-presented by Fleming, he also makes it clear that Blofeld's plan is hardly meant to be taken all that seriously.  (Without ruining it for those who might never have read the book or seen the surprisingly faithful film adaption, it all comes down to Blofeld hidden away in Switzerland, pretending to be an allergist, and brainwashing English farm girls.  No, it doesn't make a lot of sense but Fleming obviously had so much fun presenting it that most readers won't take offense.)  The heart of this book -- and this Fleming treats with an admirable seriousness that should take his critics by surprise -- is the love story between Bond and Tracy.  In Tracy, Fleming has created perhaps his most fully realized \\"Bond girl.\\"  Vulnerable yet resourseful and more than capable of taking care of herself (and, at times, perhaps even more so than Bond himself), its hard not to fall in love with this character and when Bond finally does decide to reject all others for her, its impossible to disagree with his logic.  Its a compelling, rather touching love story and, even though most Bond films know how its going to end, the ending still packs a heavy impact.  <br />As for Bond himself, after being a rather predictable presence in Thunderball, he's back in full form as a full realized, interesting character in this novel.  On Her Majesty's Secret Service was written after the release of Dr. No (Ursula Andress even makes a cameo appearance at the time) and one can sense that, with this book, Fleming is reestablishing his claim on the character.  From the intentionally ludicrous evil scheme to the frequent excursions into Bond's head (revealing him hardly to be the ruthless, unflappable killer that filmgoers though him to be), Fleming comes across as a reenergized writer in this book -- determind to let all the new Bond fans out there know who is really in charge of their favorite secret agent's destiny.  The result is one of the best of the original Bond books and one of the best spy thrillers I've read in a long time.	2002-01-22
US	42230879	R3SC9NE3BBYUB	0140249281	620102767	The White House Mess	Books	4	29	36	N	N	Is Christopher Buckley a secret psychic friend?	The White House Mess is both a hilarious political satire and an amazingly accurate portrait of the first Clinton Administration.  Sure, the names have been changed but anyone who followed politics over the course of the '90s will recognize the characters.  Thomas N. Tucker is a so-called \\"Moderate Democrat\\" who, after a few terms as Governor of a small Republican state (Idaho, in this case), is elected President over Republican George H.W. Bush.  Tucker comes to Washington with a fiercely independent wife and a staff that is an uneasy mix of cynical insiders and idealistically niave (read: stupid) campaign aides with little actual practical experience.  Over the course of the next four years, Tucker finds himself embroiled in a sex scandal, has to deal with his idiot brother, fails to establish any firm policy beyond what the polls say he should do, and -- as his Presidency comes to a close -- manages to embroil American soldiers in a futile military campaign.  There it is, the Clinton Administration in a nutshell.  Of course, what's truly amazing isn't that Buckley managed to write a memoir of the Clinton Presidency but that Buckley did so in 1987 -- five years before anyone outside of Arkansas even knew who Bill Clinton was and certainly before anyone expected this guy to be President.  (Of course, what's really funny is that when the book first came out, many critics sniped that Buckley's satire was too outrageous and had no basis in reality.)<br />Unfairly or not, Clinton hangs over Buckley's satire and, what originally might have seemed as a simple farce, is now tinged with a certain bittersweet feel.  You still laugh but its no longer a what-will-he-say-next laugh as much as its a laugh of I-Can't-Believe-This-Actually-Happened.  By that same regard, when the book first came out, one of the funniest parts dealt with the difficulty of getting a senile Ronald Reagan to leave the Oval Office following Tucker's inaguration.  As funny and well-written as this scene is, its no longer quite as funny with the knowledge that Reagan is -- in real life -- suffering from the late stages of Alzheimer's.<br />However, these are all minor quibbles and they shouldn't take away from what is one of the funniest, unsung political satires of the previous century.  Buckley disguises his book as the political memoir of former Tucker aide Herbert Wadlough.  Wadlough, a stuffy, pompous, but well-meaning Englishman, comes across as something of a poor man's Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. and Buckley perfectly captures the man's moralistic yet clueless voice.  As well, anyone who has read any of the recent memoirs by various Reagan and Clinton administration veterans will be amused as Wadlough continually tries to overhype his importance and present himself as something other than a rather minor cog in the government.  Admitedly, its probably easier to enjoy this book if you're a conservative -- most of Buckley's barbs are reserved for the less-than-worldly liberals who surround Tucker.  However, Buckley is hardly a partisan when it comes to throwing his punches.  The Republican Party takes it share number of shots.  Buckley is truly a bipartisan ridiculer but writes with such good-natured wit and skill that its hard to imagine any sensible person (no matter what their political alignment taking offense).  This is a truly hilarious book and a must read for anyone with an interest in politics or a need for a good laugh.	2002-01-21
US	42230879	R18Z63I6R24F6L	9997512359	521504653	Thunderball	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Introducing SPECTRE...	For fans of the literary James Bond, Thunderball is one of the most pivotal works of the series.  It was in Thunderball that Bond creator Ian Fleming first introduced the world to perhaps the ultimate Bond villian -- Ernest Stavro Blofeld.  Though Bond and Blofeld never actually meet in Thunderball, it is in this book that Bond first battles the schemes of SPECTRE, Blofeld's criminal organization.<br />The plot of the book (which, as with most of Fleming's best work, is disturbing plausible) deals with SPECTRE's theft of two nuclear missiles and their attempt to blackmail the world with atomic destruction.  On little more than a hunch, M (Bond's superior, as gruffly humorous as ever) sends Bond down to the Bahamas to search for the missiles.  (It is made clear that other intelligence agents are combing other locations as well.  One thing that sets the book apart from the film is the portrayal of James Bond as not the absolute best secret agent in the world but instead as just a hardworking professional who, often times, resents the intrusion of work on his private life.)  While in the Bahamas, Bond meets the book's main villian, Emilio Largo (well characterized as an almost likeable rogue), Largo's mistress Domino (who has a nicely vulnerable speech in which she analyzes a picture on a pack of cigarettes), and old allies like Felix Leiter.  Along with the usual nonstop action and the vivid descriptions that Fleming was known for, Thunderball contains some of Fleming's most memorable characterizations.  While little new is revealed of Bond, Largo and Domino grab hold of the reader's imagination and linger after the end of the book.<br />Famously, this book was inspired by Fleming and producer Kevin McClory's attempts to launch a pre-Connery James Bond film series.  The plot was invented for the movies and occasionally, the book suffers for it.  The final battle between Largo and the military, for instance, reads a bit flat and doesn't carry the same charge as the earlier, less epic scenes.  Surprising as it may be to some of Fleming's detractors, the writer main strength was always his ability to create compelling one-on-one scenes between Bond and the various eccentrics populating his world.  And it is here that Thunderball really shines.  It's too often ignored that Fleming was a witty writer whose Bond books often carried a comedy-of-manners feel.  This is certainly true in the first part of the book in which Bond finds himself sent to a health salon to recover from a life of hard living.  Bond's attempts to quit smoking and drinking are hilariously lampooned by Fleming, who makes little secret that he's mocking the critics who complained that his books were immoral.  (Indeed, when we are first introduced to Blofeld, we are quickly informed that this man doesn't smoke, drink, rarely eats, and is apparently a virgin.  In short, he lacks all of Bond's vices and, Fleming seems to suggest, turns to the business of international villiany mostly because he doesn't have much else to do.)  By the time this book came out, Fleming had certainly grown as a writer from the first Bond books.  Gone are the occasional awkward passages that occasionally pop up in Casino Royale.  Every character speaks in his own individual voice as opposed to everyone speaking like an upper class English gentleman.  In short, Thunderball is an excellent adventure that should thrill Bond fans and non-Bond fans alike.	2002-01-20
US	42230879	RSOWBV5ZYGY3D	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	138	158	N	N	Are we all Gregor Sassma?  Maybe, Franz, maybe...	For all the debate and argument over what this story means, the plot of the Metamorphosis is refreshingly simple.  Gregor Sassma wakes up one morning and discovers that, over the course of the night, he's been transformed into a giant insect.  The rest of this novella deals with Gregor's attempts to adjust to his new condition without providing a burden for his parents (who he has spent his life supporting and, it is made clear, veiw their son as little more than a commodity to be exploited) or for his sweet younger sister who Gregor views with an almost heart breaking affection.  For his efforts to not bother society with his new insect identity, Gregor is both shunned and eventually destroyed by that same society, which of course now has little use for him.  As dark as that plot outline may sound, what is often forgotten (or simply ignored) is that the Metamorphosis is -- in many ways -- a comic masterpiece.  Instead of engaging in a lot of portentous philosophizing, Kafka tells his bizarre tell in the most deadpan of fashions.  Ignoring the temptation to come up with any mystical or scientific explanations, Kafka simply shows us that Gregor has become an insect and explains how the rest of his short life is lived.  This detached, amused tone makes the story's brutal conclusion all the more powerful.<br />As well, for all the theories on what Kafka's &quot;saying&quot; with this story, the reasons behind Gregor's transformation are not all that complicated or hard to figure out.  Kafka, as opposed to too many other writers since, declines to spell out the specific reasons but still makes it clear that Gregor (and by extension, all the other Gregors in the world) had allowed himself to become a powerless insect long before actually physically turning into one.  As someone who as selflessly sacrificed whatever independence he may have had to support his uncaring parents and their attempts to live an &quot;upper class&quot; life without actually having to suffer for it, Gregor has already willingly given up all the unique traits that make one a human.  For me, even more disturbing than Gregor's fate, is Kafka's concluding suggestions that, now that Gregor has outlived his usefulness, his parents will now move on to his innocent sister.  In short, despite the example of Gregor's own terrible fate, society will continue on its way with the majority of us giving up our own humanity to support the whims of a select few.<br />From the brilliant opening lines all the way to its hauntingly deadpan conclusion, The Metamorphosis is a powerful and satirical indictment of the bourgeois condition.  Over the past few decades, the term Kafkaesque has been tossed around with a dangerous lack of discretion.  It seems any writer who creates an absurd or dark trap for his main character ends up being labeled Kafkaesque.  However, as this story especially makes clear, Franz Kafka was more than just an adjective.  He was a unique and individual writer whose brilliance cannot be easily duplicated.it, Gregor has already willingly given up all the unique traits that make one a human.  For me, even more disturbing than Gregor's fate, is Kafka's concluding suggestions that, now that Gregor has outlived his usefulness, his parents will now move on to his innocent sister.  In short, despite the example of Gregor's own terrible fate, society will continue on its way with the majority of us giving up our own humanity to support the whims of a select few.<br />From the brilliant opening lines all the way to its hauntingly deadpan conclusion, The Metamorphosis is a powerful and satirical indictment of the bourgeois condition.  Over the past few decades, the term Kafkaesque has been tossed around with a dangerous lack of discretion.  It seems any writer who creates an absurd or dark trap for his main character ends up being labeled Kafkaesque.  However, as this story especially makes clear, Franz Kafka was more than just an adjective.  He was a unique and individual writer whose brilliance cannot be easily duplicated.	2002-01-04
US	42230879	RMIOJAGWG208	0140103694	777261471	Grass Roots: One Year in the Life of the New Hampshire Presidential Primary	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Insightful examination of a really weird election	With all the drama and soap opera theatrics of the Clinton years, its hard to remember just how unusual and downright bizarre the 1988 Presidential election was.  Though it didn't feature any serious attempts at impeachment or Wag the Dog style bombings, 1988 was still the year that saw, briefly, the possibility that both parties would nominate preachers for President, the Willie Horton ads (which have been called &quot;racist&quot; so many times that people tend to forget the fact that the only was they became an issue was because Gov. Dukakis saw no problem with allowing a known dangerous felon to have an unsupervised weekend outside of prison), Dan Quayle, and most strangely, the theory that the pairing of robotic Michael Dukakis and blandly corrupt Lloyd Bentsen would somehow lead to memories of Jack Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.  Yeah, it was a strange year from the beginning, as this book clearly proves.<br />As opposed to other campaign histories, Grass Roots covers only one pivotal event in the campaign -- the New Hamsphire primary (which, even if it wasn't admitted at the time, pretty much sealed the nominations of both Bush and Dukakis).  As well, instead of concentrating on all the behind-the-scenes strategizing, Grass Roots focuses on the citizen/activists who spent a year crisscrossing New Hampshire in an effort to bring their candidates to victory.  Its a nice change from most campaign histories.  Instead of supplying analysis of why certain campaigns failed, author Dayton Duncan instead shows us the gritty details that goes into the campaigns at the ground level and one comes away with both an appreciation of the massive effort it takes to run a succesful political campaign and a better feel for what makes for victory and what dooms a cause for defeat.<br />Duncan concentrates his narrative on a few individuals such as Doug Kidd, a former directionless man whose devotion to the Rev. Pat Robertson's campaign becomes rather touching and inspirational evenif Robertson, himself, hardly strikes one as Presidential.  We meet Al Rubega, a down-to-earth conservative whose frustration with the stillborn campaign of Jack Kemp reaches truly tragic heights.  On the Democratic side, Dan Burnham faces the agony of watching Bruce Babbitt crash and burn as a result of the candidate's lack of charisma while veteran activist Andi Johnson helplessly watches as both Gary Hart and Joe Biden self-destruct in scandal before finally hooking up with the far more honest but just as doomed Paul Simon.  Along with these stories, we get insightful views of various Presidential long-shots doing their best to make a name for themselves -- Duncan's account of a day in the life of Republican Pete Du Pont and his attempts to campaign as a common man (let's just say that juggling is involved) are especially funny and strangely sad.  All in all, it makes for inspiring reading as both a political history and an account of human drama.<br />Duncan, it should be said, is admirably upfront about his own political leanings.  He is a Democrat and, after the primary, even worked as a press secretary to the Dukakis campaign.  So, what is amazing, is that this partisan has managed to write a truly nonbiased account of one of the most partisan presidential elections in recent history.  As opposed to so-called objective journalists (Jack Germond and Jules Whitcover, I'm looking in your direction), Duncan treats all the candidates and their campaigns fairly and, even when writing about the Republicans that he surely disagrees with, Duncan never resorts to easy stereotypes.  Everyone is allowed to present their case and everyone is treated with respect.  What a concept!<br />Every post-election year, it seems that we are flooded with books that claim to give an inside account of the previous election and usually they dissapoint by either engaging in the pompous rhetoric of Teddy White's later books or the surly partisan grumpiness that seems to have afflicted Germond and Whitcover (who always seemed to be saying, &quot;How could the rest of you vote differently from us!?&quot;)  Duncan's book, however, reminds us why so many people have devoted their lives to politics.  It reminds us that politics -- even today -- can still be an exhilirating way for a citizen to make his voice heard.  And for that -- as well as giving as a wonderful record of really weird election -- he is to be commended and his book treasured.	2002-01-02
US	42230879	R1GF3DG3345KIH	0966687000	733186730	Defying the Odds: An Independent Senator's Historic Campaign	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	An inspiring little book	Harry Flood Byrd, Jr.  Unless you're a citizen of Virginia or a follower of political trivia, that's not a name that sounds terribly distinguished or familiar.  However, in 1970, Harry Flood Byrd, Jr. was -- much like James Jeffords thirty-one years later -- briefly at the center of the national awareness when he made history by leaving his longtime patrons (Virginia's then all-powerful Democratic Party, which had been practically created by Byrd's namesake and father) and winning reelection to the U.S. Senate as an Independent and serving two more terms before retiring in 1982.  Defying the Odds is Byrd's own account of both the conflicts that caused him to leave the Democratic Party and the subsequent campaign where he truly did the defy the odds by winning a clear majority of the votes over both a Republican and a Democratic candidate.  Seen as something of an interesting oddity in its day, Byrd's victory is all the more relavent today as more and more American voters express a dissatisfaction with the current two party system and third parties continue to struggle to find a meaningful voice in modern politics.<br />Byrd's brief book is a likeable account and its hard not to respect the former Senator while reading it.  At no point does he descend into petty backbiting or the type of self-righteous rhetoric that all-too often seems to distinguish modern day political memoirs.  Instead, Byrd truly does come across as a member of that rare and disappearing breed -- the true Southern gentleman who treats everyone -- even those he might disagree with politically -- with proper respect (such a contrast to the politics we've all grown to know!).  As well, Byrd explains his reasoning and beliefs in a clear, concise tone that leaves no doubt to his true reasons for leaving his party.  Nor does his minimize the political risks in his decision.  While Byrd may superficially resemble Jeffords, the differences become rather clear and illuminating while reading Byrd's book.Unlike Jeffords, Byrd was basically leaving the majority party of the U.S. Senate and turning against the political establishment of his state.  (As opposed to Jeffords who pretty much was the only Republican in Vermont -- a state that, unlike Byrd's Virginia, also had a clear history of electing and reelecting independents).  <br />Reading this book, its hard not to respect Harry Flood Byrd, Jr.  Which doesn't make this a perfect book.  There is something truly admirable about the fact that Byrd has clearly decided not to use a ghost writer to express his beliefs and his story.  At the same time, Byrd is somewhat of a dry writer and there are many times when one wishes he'd go into a bit more detail.  However, for political completists, this is a valuable personal record of an apparently rather modest man who managed to make political history.	2002-01-02
US	42230879	R17JXQCHJ48PWR	0316544159	321749972	Some Honorable Men: Political Conventions, 1960-1972	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Norman Mailer, back when he WAS American Literature	It may be hard to believe now but there was a time when Norman Mailer was America's leading prose writer.  Before he descended into self-parody, Mailer was America's leading novelist and its most controversial essayist.  Some Honorable Men, which covers twelve years of Mailer's writing (in this case, focusing on the presidential conventions of '60, '64, '68, and '72), allows the reader to follow Mailer as he goes from cocky, young know-it-all through the first hints of middle age and the sourness it brings with it to finally, the beginnings of Mailer's transformation from a serious artist to an overused punchline.  In doing so, it also provides an insightful, often times cruelly humorous view of the transformation of the American political system.  For both reasons, this is a valuable book for any student of literature or political history.<br />The book begins with one of Mailer's strongest peices of writing -- Superman comes to the Supermarket which provides wonderful converage of an oddly neglected piece of political history -- the 1960 Democratic convention that resulted in the nomination of John F. Kennedy and the final gasp of the &quot;intellectual&quot; wing of the Democratic party.  Writing in his best sarcastic prose, Mailer shows us how the Kennedy glamour was used to blind observers to any possible concerns and how the overly earnest efforts of Adlai Stevenson's supporters to win the nomination for their candidate were defeated by Stevenson's own refusal to admit he was a politician first, a super hero second.  Though Mailer attempts to be critical of the Kennedys (even as he barely hides his lust for Jackie), its still obvious that he, too, has been enraptured by just the pure showmanship of the first showbiz presidency.  Though Mailer does show some sympathy to the Stevenson forces, its also clear that -- for him as with the rest of America -- the dour self-righteousness of the Stevenson liberals has run its course.  In short, this essay -- whether intentional or not -- serves as a perfect introduction to all that Camelot would become and one gets the feeling that Mailer's seduction perfectly follows the seduction of the rest of America.  In short, this essay is a perfect example of a genius as the top of his game and a reminder that Norman Mailer actually could write when he let himself.<br />The second essay -- &quot;In the Red Light&quot; -- is minor Mailer and is mostly interesting just because of the absolute dread inspired within Mailer by the thought of having Barry Goldwater as President.  In prose so sarcastic that it finally becomes rather condascending (and, in fact, leaves you feeling rather sorry for Mr. Goldwater), Mailer dismisses Goldwater and his followers as a fringe cult of sorts and basically, blames them for the death of JFK.  As opposed to &quot;Superman Comes to the Supermarket&quot; this is not vintage Mailer and in fact, it all comes across as a little hysterical today.  Still, it is an accurate reflection of the times and I think most serious students of political history will, at the very least, chuckle at Mailer's dire predictions of what a Goldwater victory would mean -- esepcially when you consider that all of those predictions came true, more or less, because Lyndon Johnson defeated Goldwater by calling him a &quot;war mongerer&quot; and then proceeded to plunge the country into the most wasteful war of its history.<br />1968 is represented by what I consider to be Mailer's finest nonfiction book &quot;Miami and the Seige of Chicago.&quot;  Its indeed fascinating to compare this book to &quot;Superman&quot; written just eight years earlier.  Watching the violence at the Democratic convention, Mailer finds himself coming to doubt both the Democratic Party and the liberals themselves.  While he is uninspired by the Republicans (and his coverage of the Republican convention is a bit dull), Mailer records in vivid detail being in the middle of the chaos in Chicago and watching as his beloved party seemed divided between spoiled trust fund kids and party hacks like LBJ who seemed determined to get everyone killed in Viet Nam.  Its a dark record of events that continue to haunt us today.<br />The book concludes with Mailer's weakest nonfiction book -- St. George and the Godfather which covers the '72 conventions.  In this book, Mailer seems bored and indeed, he admits being sick of the whole political process.  He watches as the party of Kennedy nominates George McGovern (a man who made Adlai Stevenson look like JFK) and as the Republicans nominate Nixon and the apathy he feels is reflected in the prose he writes.  While he engages in his usual tricks -- he shows up as a character, he rather sarcastically records the thought process of George McGovern as he considers running mates, it is obvious that Mailer is growing bored and desperately trying to pump some intensity into a book about apathy.  Its an apathy that the rest of the country seemed to share and from which neither Mailer nor the nation seems to have totally recovered.	2002-01-02
US	42230879	R3K21S8SFENXW2	1582970491	978311960	2002 Writer's Market Online	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	For better or worse, an essential resource	I have to admit that I've always had mixed feelings about the various market guides put out by Writer's Digest.  While the information and market listings within were (and are) indispensable, it always annoyed me how the editors broke down their listings into so many seperate -- and at times rather costly books.  (Or at least at the time, when I was first trying to survive on occasionally selling a short story for five cents a word, they seemed overpriced for a set of books targeted exclusively at aspiring writers.)  However, all that aside, these annual books are probably the most valuable tools that any writer -- especially one who is just starting to send his work out -- can purchase.  Not only are the listings remarkably varied and thorough but the advise within is usually very helpful, realistic, and straight forward.  It was the Writer's Market that taught me how to write a convincing cover letter and it was also in the Writer's Market that I found the first magazine to ever accept one of my short stories.  Plus, this year, with the online edition, the book offers the most up-to-date listings possible which cuts down on my least favorite occupational risk, waiting five months for a reply that simply reads, &quot;We're sorry but The Monthly Quarterly Review Of Words, Comma, and Stuff has temporarily suspended publication.&quot;  One warning, however.  Most of the information in the listings is provided by the magazines themselves and often, they will be deliberately vague when describing the type of writing they're looking for.  Though the writer's market is an excellent way to find potential leads, most writers will still save themselves a lot of time and frustration by mailing off a few bucks and getting a sample issue.  That may sound like a given but its still good advice to hear.  (And I say that as the former fresh-faced young writer who once had six short stories rejected by a magazine before finally spending a few bucks for a sample copy and discoveringthat I'd been trying to get my nostalgic tales of growing up in Texas published in a hardcore porno mag.)	2001-12-28
US	42230879	R231ZRTC11FXZB	0312136285	505101327	Zine: How I Spent Six Years of My Life in the Underground and Finally...Found Myself...I Think	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	An important artifact from the underground past	Zine is a term that gets tossed around a lot nowadays and, like all overused terms, the original concept has become obscure.  A zine is an independently produced publication that is usually somewhat underground in orientation.  Over the years, zines have surfaced as everything from hand-written pamphlets to xeroxed broadsheets to even a few glossy periodicals.  However, in the beginning of the so-called &quot;Zine Revolution&quot; at least, what they all had in common was a desire to give exposure to unique voices that, probably, would have been ignored by more mainstream, commercial publications.  That's not to say that it always worked out that way -- from the beginning, there was always a handful of zines that weren't quite worth the effort.  However, when a zine did live up to its ideals, the results were often amazing.  Over the next couple of years, an underground community of sorts was formed on the basis of these zines circulating across the country until soon, it seemed that everyone you met had their own zine (myself included, though hopefully all copies have been burned).  Which of course, pretty much led to the whole thing collapsing underneath its own weight.<BR>Before that collapse however, one of the best of the so-called &quot;personal zines&quot; was written and created by one of the zine world's most talented writers, Pagan Kennedy.  Her zine was one of the founding publications of the &quot;zine revolution,&quot; and many other lesser zines later tried to copy her unique style.  However, as this memoir of her life in zines shows, Kennedy was a truly a unique and individual talent.<br />For the most part, &quot;Zine&quot; is a reprinting of the eight issues of Pagan's Head and for that reason alone, this is a valuable book. Each issues took a tongue-and-cheek look at her life and over those eight issues, readers followed Pagan as she broke up with boyfriends, travelled across the country, attempted to get her stories published in mainstream magazines (her reprinting of various politely shallow rejection letters is a highlight for any aspiring writer), dealt with her father's death, and -- in the final, touching issue -- the possibility that she herself might have cancer.  Her writing is both insightfully witty and likeably self-mocking in its own self-absorbed way.  However, for me, the best parts of the book are the sections where Pagan writes about what was really going on in her life when she was creating her zines.  She writes of how, through her own personal zine, she was able to basically split herself in two -- one side being the real Pagan who had to deal with pain, insecurity, and all the other less cinematic bits of reality and the other being the zine Pagan, the one who faced life with the attitude that the real Pagan wished she could have.  As such, Zine ultimately becomes a rather melancholy memoir of a fun time and, as admirable as her zine was, the reader also understands why it was something that the real Pagan eventually had to abandon and leave behind.  As such, this book becomes an inspiration for any aspiring artist or anyone else who has ever felt trapped by mainstream society.  Pagan Kennedy is to be commended for not only creating the eight issues of Pagan's Head but for having the courage and the insight to tell the truth behind the words.	2001-12-27
US	42230879	R1MOUJCA7MSWB3	0816520496	760389894	Mo: The Life and Times of Morris K. Udall	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Outstanding biography of a man all too quickly forgotten	Its amazing how quickly we forget our leaders.  After serving 31 years in Congress, running one of the most likeable Presidential campaigns in history, and nearly getting elected majority leader of the U.S. House of Represenatives, Democrat Morris Udall's political career was cruelly and tragically brought to a halt by Parkinson's disease.  Once famed as perhaps the wittiest man in Congress (as well as one of the most effective), Udall died seven years after his retirement -- his sterling wit permanently silenced as the disease robbed him of his ability to speak.  Most tragically, this man who -- with his brother Stewart -- co-founded both the current conservation movement and America's first Mormon political clan, died a forgotten figure, remembered only by a few political junkies like myself.  Fortunately, however, Donald Carson and James Johnson have produced a wonderfully engaging biography of this man that gives us a warts-and-all portrait of a remarkable public servant.  While giving ample reason why the man was so beloved, they also don't flinch from revealing why Morris Udall ultimately remained a mystery to even his own family.  Unlike other political biographies, this book neither sets out to debunk or canonize Rep. Udall but instead stands as a sharp portrait of a complex man whose public service -- whether you agreed with his liberal politics or not (I certainly don't) -- made this country a better place.<br />Written in a breezy, conversational tone that still manages to maintain a proper biographical distance, Mo follows Udall from his strict Mormon childhood in Arizona to his first election to the U.S. House.  While a great deal of the book focuses on Udall's legislative achievements -- Udall was an environmentalist before it become trendy -- the best of the early chapters deal with Udall as a liberal upstart setting out to reform the stodgy House.  As Udall himself would often wryly point out, his political life was often a bizarre tragic comedy of second-place finishes that ultimately became victories for others.  Both of Udall's insurgent campaigns for both Speaker and Majority Leader ended in failure but sparked the revolution that overthrew (however briefly) the Congressional seniority system.  The book's highlight is the detailing of Udall's 1976 campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination where he managed to finish second in a record number of primaries without ever once finishing first. If Udall didn't set the electorate on fire, he did distinguish himself by revealing himself to be one of the most genuinely witty Presidential wanna-bes to ever pop up on a primary ballot (or, as one columnist put it, &quot;Is Morris Udall to funny to be President?&quot;  That's the 70s talking.  As of late, some genuine and intentional humor in American politics would be a bit of a relief, I'd think.)  The campaign made Udall famous for his wit but as this biography reveals, that wit often concealed a rather distant temperment that so focused on work that even his own children grew up calling him &quot;Mo.&quot;  As a politician, Udall was that rare thing -- an honest and sincere compassionate liberal who actually saw big government as a way to help the downtrodden.  Yet this same man who dedicated his life to helping strangers drove one wife to divorce and another to alcoholism and suicide.  The dichotomy makes for a fascinating read and Carson and Johnson explore these issues without ever descending into lurid muckracking.  The book concludes with a touching (and quite frankly heartbreaking) section dealing with Udall's final, brave, and tragic battle with Parkinson's Disease (which, as I read it, was also sadly reminicent of Ronald Reagan's -- another politician never given the respect that was his due -- current battle with Alzheimer's; another nefarious disease that, like Parkinson's, cruelly robs men and women of their dignity without reason or warning.)<br />Despite the fact that, politically, I'm probablyabout as far to the right as the late Congressman Morris Udall was to the left, I still find myself mourning the comically tragic failure of his 1976 campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination. As the election was the first post-Watergate election and the Republican Party was going through one of its periodic near-deaths, the election of a Democrat was pretty much assured.  All Udall had to do was win the nomination and, for four years at least, a one-eyed, 6'5, former probasketball player and nonpracticing Mormon named Mo Udall would have been President.  Of course, the nomination didn't go to Udall but instead went to the far less witty Jimmy Carter.  Considering the way the world was in the late 70s, its doubtful Udall would have had any a better time of it than Carter but instead of hearing that America's problems were due to &quot;malaise,&quot; a President Udall would at least find time to tell at least one corny, Ayatollah joke.  And, even if the voters didn't realize it at the time, America would have been better off for that joke.  Just as its now better off to have this book to remember Morris Udall by.	2001-12-26
US	42230879	R1YUDH1SSQLR3Q	1568582102	706543166	The Machine in Ward Eleven	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Six stories of madness	Originally published in the early '60s, The Machine in Ward 11 is a collection of six short stories by Charles Ray Willeford. Though the six stories all stand independent from each other, a theme of madness and disillusionment runs through them.  A brilliant film director goes insane when his artistic vision is curtailed by the demands of reality.  A cocky air force pilot commits a senseless murder and finds himself assigned to the mountains of Tibet as an indirect consequence.  A recovering alcoholic discovers that giving up drinking is possibly the worst thing he's ever done.  These stories are filled with a wry sense of the macabre.  Of these stories, three were previously published and three were written (I assume) specifically for this book.  The three original stories -- A Letter to A.A., &quot;Just Like On Television,&quot; and Jake's Journal are the strongest in the collection.  I was especially enthralled by Jake's Journal (which deals with the unfortunate pilot in Tibet) which is a story that defies any easy interpretation.  While at first, it seems that the story will be a rather standard tale of a man going insane in isolation, Willeford instead piles on more and more bizarre anecdotes and incidents before building up to a brilliant, tour-de-force ending.<br />Willeford, best known for writing Miaimi Blues, is often dismissed as an occasionally interesting but otherwise unremarkable writer of pulp fiction.  This dismissal manages to unfairly underrate both Willeford's talent and pulp fiction itself.  While the melodrama was often sordid and over-the-top, pulp fiction -- especially in the years immediately following World War II -- often served to give voice to a darkened and, at times quite critical view of the American Dream then one might find in more &quot;respectable&quot; books.  Often that is why, while most of the previous decades' best sellers have since faded into obscurity, the works of Mickey Spillane, Chester Himes, Jim Thompson, Richard Stark, and others have continued to be reissued and read.  At the heart of the best pulp fiction was a universal fear of the future and an ongoing debate between human desires and human society.  These are concepts that remain universal to readers spanning both time and location.  These are also the concepts that Willeford deals with in The Machine In Ward Eleven.k, and others have continued to be reissued and read.  At the heart of the best pulp fiction was a universal fear of the future and an ongoing debate between human desires and human society.  These are concepts that remain universal to readers spanning both time and location.  These are also the concepts that Willeford deals with in The Machine In Ward Eleven.	2001-12-17
US	42230879	R1HXUBX3680P47	1568581211	204355417	Death of a Transvestite	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Ed Wood's literary Bride of Frankenstien	Death of a Transvestite is Ed Wood's sequel to his previous pulp novel, Killer in Drag. As in Killer, the main character is angora-loving, cross-dressing, professional killer Glen Marker who is now sitting on death row. Mere hours before his execution, Glen agrees to provide the sympathetic the Warden with a confession to his crimes in return for one thing. What is Glen's price? He wants to be allowed to meet his fate not as Glen but as Glenda. As Charlie, another sympathetic guard, goes off to ransack his daughter's bedroom for a proper outfit (yes, the entire book is like this and God bless it), Glen gives the details of his sordid final days of freedom in Hollywood. And from there, Wood spins a tale of two cross-dressing killers, a young actress with sadomasochistic tendencies, and hippies (though Wood, unknowingly proving just how endearingly unhip he really was, insists on referring to them as not Beatniks but just simply 'niks). The hippie subplot (essentially having to do with outside agitators slipping LSD to Hollywood teenagers in order to turn them into cop-hating zombies) is perhaps indicative of the style of the book as a whole -- it comes out of nowhere, is obviously the product of an out-of-touch mind desperately trying to make a socially relavent statement, and it somehow works within the demented world that Wood creates in this book. No, this is not an undiscovered masterpiece of a book. In fact, its pretty sordid and at times, one can see signs of the alcoholic dementia that would destroy Wood in his later years. But, if you're an Ed Wood fan, its a must-read. And, unlike Killer in Drag, Death actually does (in its own twisted way) work even if separated from the campy reputation of the man who wrote it.<br />Death of a Transvestite picks up directly where Killer in Drag ends and features most of the same character but in style, it is a very different book. Written two years after Killer, Death of a Transvestite has a streak of fear and paranoia running through it as well as several caustic and bitter comments on the state of the Hollywood film industry. Whereas Killer featured a bizarre sincerity to its plea for tolerance, Death is almost a work of nihilism. As such, in tone and style, it is far different from the work that proceeded it. In that way, it resembles the first two Frankenstien films directed by another bitter casualty of Hollywood, James Whale. Whereas the first Frankenstien was almost somber, Whale's Bride of Frankenstien, while obviously continuing the story of the first film, was a deliberately insane, middle finger to the Hollywood establishment. The same analogy can be applied to Wood's two Glen Marker books (though he'd, undoubtly, perfer an analogy involving Bela Lugosi's Dracula as opposed to the classic Karloff films). If Killer was one of Wood's last attempts to turn pulp into art, Death of a Transvestite was his final admission that sometimes, pure trash is preferable to both.	2001-12-12
US	42230879	R2MCUJ4VEZKZSD	0929398378	891774524	Voices from Within	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A mixed collection of local talent	Voices From Within is a collection of poetry contributed by some of the best poets that you may have never heard of. All of the contributors (and there are nearly 35 varied voices represented within) are professors affiliated with the Dallas County Communty College District. The DCCCD has long had a strong, local reputation for employing some of the most talented writers in Dallas and this collection proves it. (Yes, believe it or not, there actually is more to Dallas than just money and Cowboys.) The poetry within ranges from the political protests of Rene Castilla to the cultural musings of Jerry McElveen to the humorously insightful revelations of everyday experiences contributed by Debra Galliher (who, along with McElveen, ranks as my personal favorite amongst the various voices to be found within this book). As a Dallasite who spent two wonderful semesters within the DCCCD, reading this collection was almost like a family reunion to me; a chance to hear from old friends whose insights I've been sadly missing out on for the last couple of years. However, for other readers out there, this book represents a chance to discover some very talented artists that, otherwise, might not be heard. This book is highly recommended to anyone with a love for poetry and a desire to discover something new.	2001-12-12
US	42230879	R3EIF5JPK5P8H9	1568581203	307443956	Killer In Drag	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Ed Wood's literary &quot;masterpiece&quot;	Even while Ed Wood was scraping to get together the resources necessary to make his infamous films (and earning an underserved reputation as the worst director of all time), he was also making side money by writing literally hundreds of pulp and &quot;adult&quot; novels.  Killer in Drag, considered to be his signature novel, was written when Wood was on the verge of sinking into his final alcoholic decline.  It deals with Wood's favorite theme -- a strong, heterosexual man who enjoys dressing up as a woman.  In this case, Glen is also Glenda.  Hoping to raise the money for a sex change operation, Glen works as a contract killer for &quot;the syndicate.&quot;  However, in one of the less convuluted plot twists of the book, Glen is then unjustly accused of the one murder he didn't commit.  Glen is forced to go on the run.  Ending up in a backwater town, Glen also ends up purchasing a used carnival and finding himself the prey of two corrupt cops.  Even as Glen struggles to keep Glenda from taking over his own personality, he finds time to pursue a romance with an understanding prostitute and to bond with an alcoholic drag queen.  This is the type of plot that only Ed Wood could come up with and if you're a fan of the man's films, you'll find a lot to enjoy in this book.  Is the book trash?  You bet.  Is it even a good book?  Um...no, not really.  But it is a lot of fun for Wood devotees who, by this point, should know what to expect.<br />It should also be pointed out that this book proves that, even if he wasn't talented, Ed Wood still doesn't deserve to be known as the worst director or writer ever to work in Hollywood.  While the dialouge in this book (and his films) is often flat and full of terrible jokes, is it really any worse than that to be found in Titanic or Star Wars: Episode 1 or the collected works of Bret Easton Ellis?  What comes through, most sadly, in this book is a sense of overwhelming sincerity.  No matter how ludicrous the plot, its obvious thatWood is attempting to tell a touching story that, underneath the pulp stylings, contains a plea for tolerance for men (like Wood himself) who enjoyed wearing women's clothing.  There's a niave quality to the book's attempt to be hard-bioled pulp that is almost child-like and, in a way, almost endearing.  And, unlike several other writers, Wood actually does manage to pull off one compelling chapter in which the drag queen Shrilee opens up to Glen about his tragic past and the persecution he's suffered as a result of his preference.  Its a short chapter but well written and for a few pages, Wood is obviously writing from his soul.  No, it doesn't mean that Wood was actually a brilliant talent waiting to be discovered.  But it does show that Wood did possess an actual sensitivity and compassion for his subjects -- no matter how ludicrous a plot he may have constructed to showcase that sensitivity.  It also shows that Wood, no matter how untalented a dreamer he may have been, deserves more than to be simply laughed off as &quot;the worst writer/director of all time.&quot;	2001-12-11
US	42230879	R64XXN0X49DBZ	0141180374	855781794	Kalki (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	As a novelist, Vidal's a darn good essayist	Kalki, written in the late '70s and very much a product of that era (for better and worse), was one of Gore Vidal's periodic satires on religion.  In this case, the various End-Of-The-World-Movements that were so prominent towards the end of the last century is the brunt of most of Vidal's barbs.  The plot deals with James J. Kelly, a former soldier and drug dealer who has recently declared himself to be Kalki, a human form of Vishnu who has come to Earth to end the latest age of mankind.  Vidal's uneven book details the last days of -- well, the human race more or less.  As an apocalyptic thriller, Vidal's book works.  It holds your attention, the final twist is indeed unexpected, and he does a good job of maintaining a heightening level of suspense.  That said, this is quite an imperfect book.  <br />The novel is narrated by one Teddy Ottinger, a bisexual aviatrix and aetheist who hero worships Amerlia Earhart and spends far too much time bitterly complaining about the one Herbet Weiss, the man who served as ghost writer for her autobiography.  While Ottinger is a vivid narrator, she is also probably one of the most unlikeable and just plain annoying narrators that I have ever come across.  Monumentally self-absorbed, Ottinger's obsession with Weiss and her other ghost writer -- Bruce Sapersteen -- borders on the pathological (and, I think, an arguement of borderline anti-semetism could be made as well) and -- especially annoying -- doesn't contain any specific pay-off in the end.  I'm willing to give Vidal the benefit of the doubt and assume that he meant for Ottinger to be such a pain but it still doesn't make it any more enjoyable to spend 273 pages with her.  <br />Beyond his narrator though, Vidal never seems to have really settled on just what type of story he was trying to tell.  While certainly comedy and drama can be mixed very succesfully, Vidal fails to do so in this book.  The first three-fourths of the book is a wild satire on cults, religion, and international intrigue.  The humor is a bit forced (and, quite frankly, smugly elitist) but still somewhat effective.  However, once Kalki's plans are set into action, the book becomes grimly serious.  This final third is the most effective part of the book but its still a jarring transition and Vidal doesn't quite pull it off.  It hard to buy that the final third of the book is actually part of the same story that ran through the first half.  Still, Vidal does manage to pull off a trick that has eluded many acclaimed authors -- he comes up with a truly killer (and surprising ending).<br />As a novelist, Vidal has always been a superb essayist.  His characters and his plot twists have always served more as a vehicule for him to serve up his special brand of disdain than anything else.  Hence, his plots often seem to be rather rudimentary.  In his historical novels, this is usually less of a problem since, basically, the story has already been written for him and the characters are already familiar enough to us that he can get away with shallow characterization.  However, in novels like Kalki, his weaknesses become more apparent and distracting.  Unfortunately, Kalki basically reads like satire written by a satirist who, unfortunately, has no sense of humor.	2001-11-23
US	42230879	RGIB7TMDZJZS7	0743226070	565555697	The Rehnquist Choice: The Untold Story of the Nixon Appointment That Redefined the Supreme Court	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Wonderful subject; flawed author	With the recent debacles that seem to have dominated recent American political history, the general public has finally become aware of the importance of the U.S. Supreme Court.  As opposed to the U.S. Congress or the President, members of the court are appointed for life.  They do not have to face reelection nor do they have a set date for retirement.  In short, there's probably no presidential appointment that carries more importance than who the president names (and the Senate confirms) to the Supreme Court.  One bad nomination (as history has shown time and again) can have a deterimental effect on U.S. policy for decades to come.  However, despite its power, the Court has always had a somewhat stuffy, unsexy image.  It usually doesn't make for fun reading and for too long, the process that goes into selecting the men and women who populate our highest court has been ignored.  For this reason alone, John Dean's The Rehnquist Choice is a long overdue book.<br />At the title implies, the Rehnquist Choice follows the long course of strategizing that led to the appointment, by Richard Nixon, of William Rehnquist.  With his recent prominence following both the impeachment trials and the election debacle, its easy to forget that Rehnquist was seemingly plucked from obscurity.  In one of the book's more amusing revelations, we discover that Nixon himself was often unsure of the correct pronunciation of the man he appointed to the highest court in the land.  Dean, who was an aide to Nixon, was one of the few members of the administration to lobby for the appointment of Rehnquist and, as he opaquely acknowledges, his lobbying was more of a case of his own need to display power than anything else.  Nixon, meanwhile, is shown as he considers a wide range of surprising names before settling on Rehnquist.  Indeed, part of the book's fun comes from imagining the possibilities of some of the men that Nixon considered.  Nixon, as always a fascinating character who comes across ashalf-genius and half-child, is especially entertaining as he seriously speculates on naming U.S. Sen. Robert Byrd, a former Klan members who has never actually practiced law, just to annoy Democrats in Congress.  Its an interesting inside look and also a sad look at how political concerns trivialize the entire appointment and confirmation process.  There's something definitely disturbing about how one of the most powerful men in the country got his job mostly because of the petty egos of Nixon and the members of his dysfunctional staff.<br />If there is a problem with this insightful record, it is with the author himself.  After working in obscurity, Dean came to prominence as one of the youngest (and the quickest to betray his boss) of the president's men.  Ever since the Watergate ordeal, Dean's been trying to justify his place and role in the Nixon administration.  Basically, in this book and others, Dean's overriding theme seems to be &quot;Everyone in the Nixon White House was bad except for me.&quot;  Unfortunately, especially towards the end of the book, Dean seems to sacrifice the book's insider details in order to make himself look better.  Too much of the book is full of him assuring us that he feels very guilty for having engineered the appointment and confirmation of the man who, in the eyes of many, elected a Republican to the White House in 2000.  Regardless of your politics, its hard not to wish that Dean would stop promoting his own sainthood and instead concentrate on the insider details that makes the rest of this book such a wonderful document.	2001-11-23
US	42230879	R1ZBCQB494M703	0871136538	641855463	Age and Guile Beat Youth, Innocence, and a Bad Haircut (O'Rourke, P. J.)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Politics, stories, and concrete poetry -- best of everything	PJ O'Rourke has always been one of my favorite cultural and political commentators.  An unrepentant Libertarian Republican who used to be an unrepentant Marxist radical, O'Rourke is a conservative who writes with all the wit and verve that, supposedly, only liberals are capable of.  P.J. O'Rourke is the Al Franken of the American Right, if Al Franken were actually funny.  Age and Guile Beat Youth, Innocence, and a Bad Haircut is made up of O'Rourke's previously uncollected writings over the past three decades.  As such, the book begins with a few choice pieces from his angry days as a Marxist journalist in the early '70s (where, it must be said, O'Rourke still writes with a wit that proves that funny is funny not matter what the ideology) moves on to cover his brief period as an adherent to Concrete Poetry (an art form that he admits still having no idea what to make of) and finally closes with a few of his recent essays as Rolling Stone's Foreign Affairs Editor.  Best of all, O'Rourke includes a few short stories that he wrote and published while editor of National Lampoon.  The stories, all dealing with his past as a '60s radical, are a perfect mixture of radical nostalgia and modern day clear headedness and, along with an unexpected pathos for his lost characters wandering through the political wilderness of protest, they also rank amongst the most hilarious of O'Rourke's writings, perfectly displaying his trademark style of detached irony and self-depreciating wit (one can always sense O'Rourke saying, &quot;Can you believe they actually pay me to write this stuff?&quot;).  Perhaps most nicely, the pieces in this collection are arranged by chronological order so that the reader literally goes through O'Rourke's political and literary evolution with him over the course of the book.  As such, we're provided with a nice view of the political odyssey of both O'Rourke and America over the past 30-odd years.  If one thing remains the same it is that O'Rourke, whetherconservative or liberal, consistently refuses to accept anything at face value.  He remains, always, the eternal skeptic.  And we, as readers, are all the better off for it.	2001-11-16
US	42230879	R2HUZCUX11Z2MI	1880909251	824391259	The Book of Frank	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Hardly as bad or as good as you might think...	I have to admit I slight bias in favor of this book as I attended a publication party for it at Dallas's Club Dada a few years back.  It was a great party -- one of the highlights of the '90s for me -- and as a result, I had very warm feelings towards this book for nearly a year before I actually bothered to sit down and read it.  Upon reading it, I found myself both pleased and disappointed by the final product.  Its an uneven book and its written for a very narrowly defined audience but that doesn't necessarily mean that its the great artistic fiasco that so many critics seem to believe it to be.<br />Anyway, it tells the story of social dropout Frank Mann who cynically navigates the New York performance art scene and, in order to win his dream girl, becomes a performance artist himself and descends into a world of increasing weirdness.  Much of the book's humor does tend to fall flat and sometimes the plot's deliberate attempts to be quirky can leave the reader a bit weary.  Its not a perfect book by any means.  But it still presents a finely drawn portrait of a very insular world that will be familiar to anyone who has ever gotten involved with any local metropolitan arts scene.  While many reviewers found the performance artists satirized within the book to be shallow stick figures, they are actually very accurately drawn portraits of the type of poseurs who have managed to infiltrate and, all too many times, dominate many otherwise idealistic artistic communities.  If the book at times seems to be superficial, it should be remembered that Black is deliberately trying to expose just how superficial much of modern-day intellectual life has become as of late.  So, in short, an uneven book but still one that many readers will find very worthwhile.	2001-11-14
US	42230879	RMCGU714Y428J	0385490526	870907281	The Comedy Writer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A trip through a lobotomized paradise	I believe it was the great, beloved, and much missed Dorothy Parker who once said, &quot;Hollywood -- its like paradise with a lobotomy.&quot;  Its a thesis that has since been explored in several satirical books concerning the American film industry but never with quite the wonderfully deft combination of pathos and vulgarity as in Peter Farrelly's autobiographical novel The Comedy Writer.  The book tells the story of Henry Halloran who, much like Farrelly, is an Irish Catholic from Providence, Rhode Island who, recovering from a bad break-up, impulsively moves to Los Angeles to try to recreate himself as a script writer.  Within his first few weeks in L.A., Halloran's life is changed when he sees a suicidal woman standing atop a skyscraper and, despite his efforts, fails to keep the woman from jumping.  He writes an article about her death that serves as both his first big break but also leads to him living with the dead woman's sister, the psychotic Colleen.  Colleen is a truly fascinating character who manages to be strangely endearing, amazingly annoying, and quite frightening at the same time.  As Halloran deals with his slutty, silicon-based neighbor (who basically has sex with with anything yet refuses to consider sleeping with him) and strikes up a rather bizarre friendship with a WASP actor who goes by the name Herb Silverman (out of a belief that the only way to make it in Hollywood is to pretend to be Jewish), he also gets a chance in a hilarious scene to pitch several script ideas to Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld (making devastating cameos as themselves) and, in the book's most unexpectedly sincere moments, to find God.  <br />If all of this sounds a bit heavy, it should be remembered that this book is by the same man who co-created There's Something About Mary and Dumb and Dumber.  In short, the book is filled with outrageously raw humor but somehow, the vulgarity never feels out of place.  Instead, it feels like a natural extension of living in a world (Hollywood) that seems to have been created specifically to showcase the lowest common denominators of pop culture.  Instead, much like his better films, Farrelly combines the most potentially offensive of comedy with the most sincere of emotions and it creates a truly touching and exhilirating ride.  Its not common to find a talent that can somehow follow up humor about a misplaced sperm sample with a touching passage about his faith in God.  Luckily, Peter Farrelly appears to be such a talent and The Comedy Writer is indeed the perfect vehicule for that talent.  All-and-all, an amazing and touching book that will surprise those who both love and loathe the films of the Farrelly Brothers.	2001-11-14
US	42230879	R15G33MT198N1N	1560251441	239117518	Go: A Novel	Books	4	26	27	N	N	The first Beat novel rediscovered	&quot;Go,&quot; generally acknoweldged as the first of the Beat Generation novels, was Holmes' first novel and it shows many of the typical flaws of the first major work of a talented artist.  The tone is incosistent, the plot tends to wander, and the first half the book has a tendency to drag.  That said, &quot;Go&quot; is still a worthwhile novel.  Much as his friend Jack Kerouac would later do, Holmes essentially records his life as an aspiring writer living on the fringes of the postwar New York underground.  Under various aliases, such familiar characters as Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, and Neal Cassady wander through the book.  In its loose, episodic fashion, &quot;Go&quot; tells the story of a young writer who, while desperately trying to complete his first novel, watches his friends and wife dance through a decadent society, fueled by their own desire to say something original in a world that seems to fear and despise anything less than the purely conventional.  Its a familiar plot but Holmes truly manages to capture both the excitement and the fear that goes with being both young and undiscovered.  This a book that will be easily understood by anyone who has ever been convinced that they, for whatever reason, have been blessed with the ability to see both the beauties and the horrors of modern life that the rest of the world seems to safely ignore.  As well, the book serves as a sad lament for both the promise and the ultimate fate of the original members of the Beat Generation.  Though Holmes couldn't have realized it at the time, some of the book's most powerful scenes comes from having the knowledge of the ignominous fates that await characters like Gene Pasternak (Jack Kerouac) and Hart Kennedy (Neal Cassady) once they find the success that they are so desperately seeking.  Even if uneven, it makes for an exhilirating read that, in the wonderful final chapter, truly does leave the reader feeling as if he has -- for a moment -- been transported back tothe New York of the 1950s, when it truly seemed that these fatally flawed geniuses held the future and the salvation of American literature in their hands. <br />Though he is usually credited with both coining the much maligned term &quot;Beat Generation&quot; as well as writing &quot;Go,&quot; the first truly Beat novel, John Clellon Holmes has long been overshadowed by more experimental contemporaries like Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg, and William S. Burroughs.  As Holmes himself acknowledged in personal interviews and this autobiographical novel, he was always on the fringe of the main Beat group -- i.e., a somewhat conservative, responsible intellectual trying to make a name for himself amongst a group that prided itself on being neither conservative nor responsible.  Holmes is one of the few important Beat figures to never figure importantly into any of Kerouac's novels and his writing style was far more conventional than those of the better known Beats.  As a result, &quot;Go&quot; has too often been unjustly ignored by modern-day adherents to the Beat Generation.  This is unfair because &quot;Go,&quot; though certainly imperfect, is still a valuable look at these future mythological figures before they become legends and is an entertaining work on its own.	2001-11-13
US	42230879	RV6N74ZKGV0X7	0415928362	19107105	No Place for Amateurs: How Political Consultants are Reshaping American Democracy	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	An inside look	As of late, political consultants have become convenient boogeymen.  It seems whenever the American people decide they'd rather be apathetic than devote a few minutes out of their day to voting or whenever a politician is caught breaking the law, it somehow turns out to be the ultimate fault of political consultants.  And so, every few months or so, we get a lot of people demanding a lot of new laws and vague terms like &quot;campaign finance&quot; get tossed around by commentators who obviously haven't got a clue as to what they're actually talking about.  Yet somehow, nobody ever seems to really bother with, say, investigating what campaign consultants actually do.  Luckily, veteran consultant Dennis W. Johnson has written &quot;No Place For Amateurs,&quot; an inside look at campaign consultants that manges to avoid the anti-consultant hysteria of most recent insider books while at the same time never embracing the shallow arrogance of the &quot;how-to&quot; books of consultants like Dick Morris (who is featured in the opening chapters of Johnson's books and -- no great shock -- comes across as an egotistical cad).  Chapter-by-chapter, Johnson explains, in detail, what pollsters, direct mail consultants, and advertising gurus actually do.  He also explains how political consultants came to be so powerful in American politics and shows that the situation isn't quite as bad as we might think.  At the same time, Johnson doesn't allow himself to be a shill for his fellow consultants.  He does highlight some trouble spots and the reforms he suggests manage to be both effective and fair without resorting to the hysterical fearmongering of so many other reformers.  As well, Johnson's book is also full of several entertaining anecdotes from previous campaigns and it should be a lot of fun for people with a taste for political trivia.	2001-11-12
US	42230879	R1KPMCXEWSO2L4	0684834812	773613927	The EXES: A NOVEL	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Uneven but endearingly likeable	Pagan Kennedy is one of those occasionally maligned writers who makes their home in the narrow purgatory between serious literature and pop kitsch.  With a vision that seems to have been shaped by equal measures of too many postmodern lit. courses in college and a youth composed of watching Three's Company on TV, Kennedy and other writers of her ilk are too often either unfairly dismissed or hugely overrated.  In reality, they are doing what all authors, in the end, do -- recording their world as they see it.  Occasionally, a great work of art emerges (such as Michael Chabon's Wonderboys) and occasionally, the result is an all-out fiasco (i.e., the career of Bret Easton Ellis).  And much more frequently, the result is a book crafted with obvious intelligence that still remains frustratingly uneven and perfect example of this is Kennedy's novel the Exes.<br />Taking place in the independent music scene of Boston, the Exes tells the story of an up-and-coming band that is made up exclusively of ex-lovers.  While this might seem to be a bit too cute and gimmicky, Kennedy very adroitly acknowledges the gimmick behind the band and makes no secret of the fact that her characters pursue the idea more as an exercise in advertising than anything else.  To her credit, Kennedy also proceeds to rather intelligently investigate the ramifications of such a gimmick and she treats the whole idea with a comendable and clear-eyed seriousness.  She doesn't just coast on that one idea and that alone sets her book above a lot of other recent fiction.  As well, Kennedy obviously knows the world of underground music and, when dealing with the gossipy and incestous nature of Boston's indie world, her writing snaps with the knowledge of an insider.  It makes for exhilirating reading and in these passages, Kennedy truly shines.<br />She seems less sure when it comes to dealing with the four members of the band.  Each gets to &quot;star&quot; in their own section of the book which details theband's story from their own individial perspective.  To put it bluntly, some members of the band are far more interesting than others.  While the band's &quot;leaders&quot; come across as rather smug and shallow (and therefore, their sections of the story tend to display the same qualities), the two &quot;background&quot; members -- a bisexual bassist and her ex-boyfriend, the drummer -- are both truly fascinating and their two sections are probably the best in the book.  As well, the book's &quot;insights&quot; regarding modern relationships, at times, come across as a bit too pat, a bit too easy.  On the whole, it makes for an uneven book with a few dead spots that are all the more frustrating because of the incredible talent that Kennedy shows in other more lively sections.<br />Still, this is a book that is undeniably likeable.  Kennedy manages to perfectly capture the atmosphere of vulnerable dreams and insecure posturing that seems to suffuse almost any &quot;underground&quot; scene.  Anyone who has ever been in an independent band or a member of any town's local artistic community will recognize the situations and personalities that Kennedy describes in her book.  She proves herself to be a keen social observer and commentator.  As well, Kennedy manages to pull off something that few other writers have ever succeeded at doing -- she crafts a perfect ending with an absolutely killer last line.  Whatever flaws this book may have, one cannot help but like the quirky world that Kennedy describes and be thankful for the chance to share in her undeniable talent.	2001-11-12
US	42230879	R24LOMI96VIFF6	0879725842	662060104	America's Favorite Radio Station: WKRP in Cincinnati	Books	5	30	31	N	N	For anyone who knows who Gordon Sims really is....	Like a lot of people, I first truly discovered one of the best sitcoms in television history a year or two after it was cancelled.  Every night, at 6:30 pm, I'd turn the TV over to channel 21 and catch reruns of WKRP in Cincinatti and I'd find myself enthralled by everything from the sleaziness of Herb Tarlek, the well-meaning insanity of Les Nessman, the drug-addled flashbacks of Johnny Fever, and the likeable foolishness of Art Carlson.  (And even though Loni Anderson's Jennifer may have been the officially recognized sex symbol, my crush was reserved for the much more quiet Bailey Quarters who proved that intelligence is the ultimate aphrodisiac.)  As a child, I often wished that I could be a character on that show and even today, I often find myself thinking how much more fun I'd have at work if I'd moved up to Ohio and gotten a job at that low-rated radio station.  Much like the later Newsradio, WKRP In Cincinnati was distinguished by a mixture of character-driven plots and surreal humor.  And much like Newsradio, WKRP was treated like a redheaded stepchild by its parent network and ended up getting canned without a proper chance to build up an audience.  Even today, WKRP is overshadowed by other, increasingly dated '70s sitcoms (basically anything produced by Norman Lear).  With all that in mind, I was delighted when, recently, I came across a copy of Mike Kassel's entertaining behind-the-scenes history of WKRP in Cincanniti.  Along with the prerequisite episode guide (which was very nicely detailed without getting overly obtuse as seems to happen with so many fan guides), Kassel provides some wonderful anecdotes and gives some nice insights into the cast.  It was strangely heartwarming to discover that, behind-the-scenes, the show was apparently as enjoyable to work on as to watch.  As well, most of the trivia found inside the book was new to me and made for some interesting speculation.  (For instance, Gary Sandy was originally a candidate for Herb Tarlek --a character as far away from Sandy's Andy Travis as possible.  At the same time, one can see Sandy playing the Herb role as it was originally detailed in the pilot's script.  One can see Sandy playing the role to good effect without discounting the absolute brilliance of Frank Bonner's Herb.)  Anyway, if you hated WKRP, this book won't change your mind.  Kassel's a fan and he's not attempting to be objective in his analysis of the show.  And more power to him!  After all, the point of a fan guide like this is to celebrate the nostalgia that people feel for their favorite TV shows, even years after they've been cancelled.  And this book certainly succeeds at that.  It is true that if you want to be nitpicky, you can find quite a few typos in the book.  If that bugs you to a state of distraction, I can only suggest that you follow the (paraphrased) advice of Mystery Science Theater 3000, keep telling yourself its just a TV show, and you really should relax.	2001-11-05
US	42230879	R2WCL30TR5DX6G	0312261209	517020252	The Wild Card: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not quite a winning hand	Five childhood friends live their lives obsessed by poker and haunted by a secret tragedy.  Every year, four of them get together for a weekend-long reunion in San Fransisco where they play an epic game of poker and relive their youths.  Only one -- Bobby McCorkle -- has refused to attend these games until finally, the details of that hidden tragedy threaten to bubble to the surface.  This year, Bobby attends the game and, over the course of one chaotic weekend, the truth is finally revealed.  Its a good premise for a thriller but Mark Joseph's The Wild Card ends up promising more than it delivers.<br />Probably the most important element of any thriller are creating credible, believable characters.  If you can buy the characters and their motivations, even the most improbable of twists can be accepted.  Unfortunately, with the exception of Bobby and occasionally gambling addicted Alex, the main characters never really stand out from each other.  Each is given one trait to set them apart (one is gay, another Chinese) but otherwise, they're basically interchangeable.  Since very little seems to be happening inside the characters (and most of their dialouge feels forced and leaden), the book's attempts at creating a psychological thriller fall flat.  As well, the deep, dark secret should be obvious to most readers as soon as they read the first chapter.  With a few noteable exceptions, the book lacks a certain element of surprise that a succesful thriller needs to keep the reader on the edge of his seat.<br />That said, there are also a few elements that work quite well.  The author is, himself, a poker player and the game scenes crackle with a vibrancy that the rest of the book lacks.  (Though, by the end, his oft-repeated message that poker represents the twists and turns of life starts to feel just a bit heavy handed and forced.)  Though he's hardly a master of prose, Joseph is a good story teller and the book is a quick read.  Even if it didn't enthrall me, the Wild Card certainly didn't bore me either.  As well, the ending's final twist, if a little improbable (as most final twists are), is a genuine surprise and does stick in the reader's mind after he finishes the book.  On the whole, an uneven thriller that certainly has its moments.  One could do worse when looking for a book to pass a rainy afternoon with.	2001-11-05
US	42230879	R2JDEA7MTR6Q3Y	0385497237	210106277	The Money-Whipped Steer-Job Three-Jack Give-Up Artist: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Maybe a little over par...	One of the most gifted sport commentators out there, Texan Dan Jenkins practically invented the golf novel with Dead Solid Perfect.  Now, a decade or two later, Jenkins returns to the genre with the episodic The Money-Whipped, Steer-Job, Three-Jack Give-Up Artist which, in its rambling way, basically details a year on tour with an outspoken, somewhat befuddled pro golfer who, though a veteran of the game, has never quite become a star.  With most of his money going to his two ex-wives (who are both wonderfully entertaining characters), the narrator spends most of his time telling anecdote-filled stories of golf history, detailing his fear of lizards (a potentially humorous motif that never quite pays off), and telling us of his rivalry with a European, superstar golfer who spends most of his time cheating on his wife and speaking of himself in the third person.  Though the European golfer is a character that most readers have seen a million times in the past, his character is still crudely funny and the passages detailing his buffoonish vanity are amongst the book's best.  Jenkins shines with his characterization -- though the characters are all somewhat shallow, Jenkins still creates vivid portraits of them and his dialouge gleams with a razor's edge.  The narrator is, like Jenkins, from Texas and he tells the book's story in a laid-back, rather self-effacing drawl that makes for entertaining reading.  However, plot-wise, the book never comes together and seems to wander rather aimlessly over the PGA tour.  As well, if you're not a fan of golf, this book won't change your mind and Jenkins makes little attempt to make the book, with its litany of technical detail, understandable to those who might not be familiar with the game.  Still, if you enjoy golf (like myself), this book is a pleasant little diversion.  It won't change your life but it'll keep you entertained for a day or two.	2001-11-05
US	42230879	R1IPH6DKSK4HV4	0872860175	396737102	Howl and Other Poems (City Lights Pocket Poets, No. 4)	Books	5	175	197	N	N	Read it for yourself	Unfortunately, there seems to be a lot of self-appointed critics who, in order to try to convince others of their own individuality and intellectual honesty, feel the need to let everyone know that they consider Ginsberg (and every other so-called &quot;Beat&quot; for that matter) to be an overrated hack and more of a celebrity than a poet and blah, blah, blah, blah.  It is true that Ginsberg's style has been imitated by far too many lesser poets who, obviously, don't posess anything close to the man's talent and it is also true that there's an equal number of people who claim to love Ginsberg but have never actually bothered to sit down and really read anything beyond the first page of &quot;Howl.&quot;  Inetivably, one wishes that all of these presumed literary critics (regardless of where they stand) would just shut up, read the poems for themselves, and form their own opinions regardless of what the current trend is.  For if they did, they would discover a very talented poet who, even if he occasionally seemed to be repeating and parodying himself as he got older, still created some of the strongest American poetry of the latter 20th Century.  While Kaddish remains his strongest work of poetry, his much more famous poem &quot;Howl&quot; still carries more of a raw, exhilirating anger.  Written to be read aloud, Howl is basically a cry against the conformity of 1950s America but the anger found within still reverberates almost half a century later.  Certainly, his vision of a drug-abusing community of outcasts wandering along darkened city streets remains as relavent as ever.  Like any apocalyptic poem, it can be credibly charges that at times, Howl is superficial and there's not much beyond shocking images.  I don't necessarily disagree with this -- Howl, for instance, doesn't carry the same emotional weight as Ginsberg's more personal Kaddish.  However, if Howl is all image, they're still very powerful images.  Would I feel the same passion for this poem if I didn't know the much-reported stories of Ginsberg's &quot;best minds of my generation destroyed by madness?&quot;  In short, if the beats hadn't been so celebrated by the media, would this poem have the same power?  Honestly, who cares?  The fact of the matter is that yes, the beats were celebrated (or hyped depending on your point of view) by the media and Howl is a powerful poem.  All other considerations are simply unimportant doublespeak.  As for the other poems contained with Howl, they are a mixed batch but all have their value.  Some are a little too obviously based on Whitman (much as countless other poets based too much on Ginsberg) but they all have their points of interest.  Its obvious that none of them were chosen to overshadow Howl but to a certain extent, that works very well.  After the rage and madness of Howl, its good to have these other poems to &quot;come down&quot; with.<br />With all this talk of anger and rage, I should also mention that Ginsberg's sense of joy is a component of his poetry that too many critics either fail to mention or ignore all together.  Whatever you may think of his talent, it is obvious that Ginsberg loved poetry and found his greatest happiness through the discovery of new forms of poetic expressions.  For all of its apocalyptic ragings, Howl never grows shrill because one can sense the fact that Ginsberg had a lot of fun composing (and performing) the poem.  A few years before his own death, I was lucky enough to attend one of Allen Ginsberg's readings.  Though he read mostly from Kaddish and his shorter poems (perhaps, understandably, trying to make sure we understood he actually had written other poems beyond the one everyone kept citing), he also read a bit from Howl.  He proved to be an amazing reader, going over these words he must have seen over a million times past, with an almost childlike enthusiasm and joy.  As he did this, I looked out at the others in the audience and basically, I saw rows and rows of identical looking &quot;intellectuals,&quot; all posessing the same dead-serious expression on their face, nodding at each relavent point as if to make sure everyone understood that they understood genius.  Contrasting their forced seriousness with Ginsberg's uninhibited joy, I realized that there was only one true tragesy as far as Allen Ginsberg was concerned and that was the fact that his self-appointed acolytes always took him for more seriously then he did himself.  To consider Howl and Ginsberg without joy is like considering language without words.	2001-10-17
US	42230879	R1V79YNMZJ2IDS	1580631088	825896645	Law & Order: The Unofficial Companion -- Updated and Expanded	Books	5	48	54	N	N	Great reading for Law &amp; Order fans and pure trivia hounds	Most companions to hit television shows tend to be little more than dry reprintings of studio press releases.  Luckily, this book, dealing with the second greatest crime show on TV (right after Homicide reruns), is a wonderful exception.  Along with the expected episode guides, Law &amp; Order: The Unofficial Companion is an interesting behind-the-scenes look at how a great television show was produced and somehow managed to thrive even as things occasionally got a little weird once the cameras were turned off.  For a show that has managed to maintain the same basic formula for a decade, Law &amp; Order has had a tumultous history marked by an almost constantly revolving cast and production crew.  Rather than whitewashing, this book goes into the details about what led to such controversial departures of beloved performers like Chris Noth, Richard Brooks, Jill Hennessy, and especially Michael Moriarty.  Moriarty's infamous personal demons are explored with an evenhanded honesty and, despite the opinions of some of his former castmates (Noth comes to mind), he emerges as the show's secret hero -- the man who sacrificed a good career for his own beliefs.  (Of course, I happened to agree with a lot of his beliefs so I can't claim to be completely unbiased in my opinion.)  Also of interest were the criticisms offered by current cast members like S. Epatha Merkerson who is very outspoken about her own feelings about the way the show has portrayed her and other African-Americans.  Jill Hennessy comes across as the little sister we all wished we had, Chris Noth as the rebellious smart alek that we all secretly wished we could be, and George Dzundnza as the co-worker we all dread.  Its indeed rare that a &quot;tv companion&quot; leaves us feeling as if we've actually met and gotten to know the men and women who made our favorite shows possible and Law &amp; Order does that.  As a fan, I was disappointed to learn of the lingering bitterness that several actors seem to hold towards the show but it still made for a wonderfully honest read.  On the whole, the people behind Law &amp; Order come across as a rather outspoken, independent group and its easy to see how those combative personalities have helped keep the show consistenly enthralling even while occasionally straight-jacketed by an unchangeable style.  If you want to see what makes a great show great, this is the book to read.<br />Also, I have to commend the episode guide.  Along with the expected cast lists and plot summaries, the authors take a refreshingly, no-holds barred approach with their criticisms -- even while praising the show, they're willing to point out where they feel mistakes were made and, in true fan fashion, their negative comments are far more honest and pointed than what you'd get from someone who hated the show to begin with.  I didn't agree with all of their opinions but they were still wonderful to read and consider.  True, the current edition of the book does not contain details for the past few seasons but, with Law &amp; Order in continual reruns on apparently every cable station in America, that's not as much of a problem here as with other shows.	2001-10-16
US	42230879	R1VYXGUTVL2DX8	0140043519	683385169	Junky	Books	5	49	53	N	N	Classic of the underground	Burroughs' first book is an autobiographical tale of how he first came to try heroin and his travels across North America as, to paraphrase the author, junk became his life.  To those who know Burroughs as only the writer of Naked Lunch, the straight-forward and precise prose of Junky may come as a surprise at first but, upon careful reading, all the same concerns and motifs are here.  Basically, Junky tells what was happening in the real world while Burroughs was hallucinating the junk-fueled world of Naked Lunch.  While it may deceptively appear to have no real structure, its meandering style instead perfectly embodies the drug-fueled lifestyle of its protaganist.  Its a fascinating read that reveals that, despite beliefs to the contrary, there has always been a drug underground in the United States where junkies remain easy scapegoats for other societal problems.  While Burroughs does't condemn drug use, he can hardly be accused of promoting it either.  Instead, in the best libertarian tradition, he promotes only the freedom of the individual to be able to determine his own fate.  <br />However, beyond any possible political or philosophical interpretations, this is a fast-moving, informative book with a dry wit hidden amongst the deadpan prose.  What is often forgotten is that Burroughs' first known stories were all parodies of other genres and in many ways, Junky is a dead-on imitation of the hardboiled, pulp novels that were also prominent at the time.	2001-10-11
US	42230879	R5RJNX5KEPP3F	0451822196	346025288	Cycle of the Werewolf (Signet)	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Fun horror from King without a trace of self-importance	Divided up into basically twelve short stories all dealing with a werewolf in a small Maine town, Cycle of the Werewolf is more of a mood piece that a novel but its still an entertaining read.  Because of the structure -- each month giving us a new victim to meet and quickly bid a fond farewell -- this book doesn't contain the in-depth characterization that most King fans expect from the writer and, as a result, the supernatural threat never becomes personalized for the reader.  Its a book that manages to cast a gloomy pall without actually achieving any real horror.  That said, Cycle of the Werewolf is still a quick and fun read, especially if you're a fan of the whole werewolf legend.  King's prose is quite strong here and, if you're like me and a part of the minority of readers who actually think King's book have gotten a bit excessive and self-important as of late, this book serves as a good reminder that before he became STEPHEN KING, GREAT WRITER AND SELF-STYLED LITERARY ICON, he was just a goofy guy who wanted to scare people.  In this book, King comes across as an overly earnest summer camp counselor trying to tell a creepy story in front of a campfire.  Its a lot of fun and there's something to be said for that.	2001-10-11
US	42230879	R3B4UYDVN3T8SL	0944276318	344840692	Is Elvis Alive?/Book and Audio Cassette	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Flakes of the world unite	If Elvis didn't die in 1977, he probably eventually did die laughing while reading this book.  The author's main proof that Elvis is alive seems to be the fact that her book &quot;Orion&quot; (which tells about an Elvis-like singer who fakes his own death) didn't manage to sell many copies.  Of course, its got to be a conspiracy!  Still, I'll give it two stars just for its humor factor.  The tape is really kind of boring (when did Elvis become so pointlessly verbose?) but in the book, we find out all the details on the author's psychic abilities, the conspiracy that kept Gary Hart from becoming President, astrology, and just all sorts of things.  After reading this book, I had to wonder if there was anything the author didn't believe in!	2001-10-11
US	42230879	R2UPTZQSXDNWZ8	0394553136	786556501	CVJ: Nicknames of Maitre D's and Other Excerpts from Life	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Autobiography of a modern genius	Though he's better known now as a filmmaker, Julian Schnabel was also one of the leading figures on the American Art Scene in the late '70s and '80s where, for better or worse, his gigantic canvases and infamous arrogance typified the last years of Warhol's New York.  You either love the Schnabel of that period or you hate him.  Luckily for me, I thought he was a genius and therefore I enjoyed his autobiography, Cvj.  Covering his childhood in Texas, Cvj doesn't carry all of the insider gossip that a lot of readers will probably be looking for but it is a rare and fascinating glimpse into the development of one of the greatest artists of modern times.	2001-10-10
US	42230879	R3TO0687PJA6SB	0898030471	383164366	A New Beginning	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good introduction to the Libertarian Party	The Libertarians just don't ever seem to get any respect.  Even though they've managed to survive and grow (albiet slowly) over the past 30 years (as opposed to the late Reform Party) and they've also managed to show a consistent strength without resorting to continually renominating the same celebrity candidate (as opposed to the Greens), many political commentators tend to dismiss America's largest third party as &quot;a bunch of Republicans who want to get stoned.&quot;  The fact of the matter is that, even as the Libertarians have been ridiculed, many of their ideas have been adopted into the so-called political &quot;mainstream.&quot;  Even their most controversial stand -- the legalization of drugs -- has become more and more acceptable with each passing year.  And, compared to most other third party candidates, the Libertarians have been able to consitently nominate credible candidates for the office of presidency -- such as Ron Paul in 1988 and especially Ed Clark in 1980.  Polling over a million votes, Clark was by far the Libertarians most succesful presidential candidate and his campaign is reponsible for bringing several previously frustrated voters into his party's camp.  Clark wrote a New Beginning specifically for the 1980 campaign and, despite being twenty years old, it remains a valuable introduction to the beliefs and philosophy behind the Libertarian Party.  Writing in clear, level-headed prose, Clark explains why the Libertarians believe that government has become too intrusive in American life, why the War on Drugs is a waste of taxpayer money that does more harm than good, and -- perhaps most importantly -- demolishes the myth that the Libertarians are a bunch of a anti-government flakes.  Instead, Clark details policies that, if radical, also tend to make a lot more sense than the bloated government gridlock perpatrated by the mainstream political establishment over the past few decades.  While I don't agree with the entire platform (in specific, the isolationist bent of some Libertarians tends to leave me a bit alienated), its still a well-written polemic that deserves every voter's consideration.	2001-10-10
US	42230879	R2JFKAXX2KB5I1	0532221737	289711238	I Ran Against Jimmy Carter	Books	1	1	1	N	N	You did what?	When I first saw this book, I wondered, &quot;Who is Stanley Arnold and when did he run against Jimmy Carter?&quot;  I didn't know then and since reading the book, I don't know now.  The only thing that has changed is that I no longer care.  Anyway, Stanley Arnold describes himself as some sort of advisor to former Vice President Humphrey but doesn't really go into specifics.  The book was written to promote Arnold's 1980 presidential candidacy but, for whatever reason, the majority of it is devoted to criticizing the 1976 presidential election.  He doesn't really give us any of his positions on the issues other then to say that he thinks we should withdraw from Viet Nam -- which would have been a relavent issue in any election from 1960 to 1972 and perhaps '76 but certainly NOT 1980.  Throughout much of the book, Arnold boasts about his skills as a political wit but the only humor he can seem to summon up is continually saying Sen. Frank Church could never be President because of the Seperation of Church and State.  Normally, there wouldn't even be a point to reviewing this book but it was indeed such a weird little tome that I simply had to reviewed it -- if just to prove to myself that I'd actually read it and not just conjured it up in a fever dream.	2001-10-10
US	42230879	R2JJ5JU4ZCVN2I	1566633109	302160843	Rostenkowski: The Pursuit of Power and the End of the Old Politics	Books	4	3	4	N	N	One of my favorite politcos -- politics aside	Though I've been a Republican (and occasional Libertarian) since I was old enough to vote, one of my favorite politicians remains a Democrat.  Chicago's own Dan Rostenkowski served as chairman of the very powerful Ways and Means Committee until 1994 when he was voted out of office amongst corruption charges and disgust with the Democratic establishment in general.  Richard Cohen's book is the first and (as far as I can tell) only full-length biography of this politician and its a fascinating read.  Following Rostenkowski from his beginnings as an obscure lackey of Mayor Richard Daley in the '50s to his position as the most powerful man in Washington, D.C. in the late '80s and early '90s, and finally ending with his downfall, Cohen's book shows how this man came to power though the old fashioned politics of patronage and was eventually destroyed by them.  Its also a finely nuanced investigation of a man who remained bluntly unglamorous as American politics were transformed into the world's most vapid beauty contest by the Clintons and their ilk.  Even as you read about the man's flagrant abuse of power, its hard not to miss Dan Rostenkowski whose ill-fitting suits, cheap haircuts, and blue collar manner become all the more likeable in the face of our recent crop of lip-biting, pain-feeling, bridge-building politicians.	2001-10-10
US	42230879	R3BSUID79FCTUH	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	5	43	76	N	N	Fun for Republicans; Democrats beware	Bill Sammon's At Any Cost is one of my favorite political books.  It is one of the many books to come out about the final, bizarre battle of the 2000 Presidential campaign and its also one of the few to be firmly and unapologetically pro-Bush.  As portrayed in this book, Al Gore is an unhinged meglomaniac, the Democrats are a pack of clueless, self-righteous hypocrites, and the mainstream news media is beyond biased.  Since I'm a Republican, I loved this book because it confirmed everything I already suspected about the whole debacle.  In all fairness, this is a biased book and I'm certainly not going to claim that it tells the definitive story of the election.  Its defiantly one-sided but then again, so are most of the pro-Gore books that have come out recently.  There's not a lot here to appeal to Democrats and if you're a Gore supporter, you'll absolutely hate this book and it certainly won't change your mind.  So do yourself a favor, don't read it, and save yourself (and the rest of us) the tidy moral outrage.  But for Republicans, its fun to find Gore treated with the same extreme bias that we see applied to our own party every single day.  If you're simply looking for unbiased information on what actually went on that election day than this probably isn't the book to turn to.  But neither are any of the other pro-Democrat books released as of late.  Unfortunately, that even-handed, truly fair book has yet to be written and in today's political climate, it probably won't ever be.  But for now, us pro-Bush folks have Bill Sammon and the Gore folks have everyone else and hopefully, sensible people on both sides of the issue realize that life -- for better or worse depending on your own ideology -- has mercifully gone on.	2001-10-10
US	42230879	R1W97Q1OYCHD76	0399147454	559108275	The Muse Asylum	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A promising debut	When I first started reading David Czuchlewski's debut novel, I must admit I was disappointed.  The book seemed to be heavily flawed and while a definite talent did sign through, I didn't expect to be impressed by the time I finished it.  All I can say to anyone who has a similar reaction is that this is a book you must stick with until the very last page!  Because as the book's ironic yet appropriate ending approached, it quickly became obvious that must of what I had previously dismissed was instead Czuchlewski's carefully and subtly setting up one of the strongest endings I've ever read.<br />The book itself deals with two Princeton grads who find themselves lost outside of the confines of the Ivy League.  (The author, himself, went to Princeton and his university scenes are the strongest in the book.)  Both are aspiring writers, both are obsessed with a Pynchonesque writer named Horace Jacob Little who is infamous for never having been seen in public, and both are still in love with classmate Lara Knowles.  The only real difference -- Andrew Wallace is crazy and Jacob Burnett isn't.  Or so were allowed to initially believe but to be honest, as Burnett tracks down Little and Wallace explains why he's convinced Little is out to get him, it becomes harded and harder to determine what's sane and what isn't.  By the end of the book, the reader is truly left wondering just what exactly is real and what's just imagination gone rampant.<br />That said, this is a first novel and its hardly perfect.  The prose alternates between being clunky and overly florid and most of the secondary characters are a little bit flat.  As well, Lara is a shallowly written character and its hard to imagine such a vapid person entrancing one lover -- let alone two!  As well, the examples of Little's prose that are included in the text don't actually read that well.  After being assured this man is the world's greatest living writer, I couldn't help but be let down by the writing samples included in the book.  Much like Lara, Little doesn't seem all that worthy of the obsessions.  Then again, after reading the ending, I found myself wondering if perhaps that was intentional on Czuchlewski's part as well.  This is a book that, by its conclusion, forces you to question everything.<br />Beyond all of that, though, what I really appreciated was the way the author captured the way a well-written book can bring two people together.  Reading about how both Andy and Jacob cemented their affairs with Lara over their mutual love for Little took me back to many years past, when me and my then-girlfriend would spend hours reading Raymond Carver to each other.  I'm sure every aspiring writer and book lover has a similar memory and The Muse Asylum taps into those memories beautifully.	2001-10-09
US	42230879	R26QR3SD64MYFK	0807071242	430547680	Fugitive Days: A Memoir	Books	1	40	70	N	N	You don't need a Weatherman....	Bill Ayers, former '60s revolutionary-turned-college-professor, offers us his memoirs of that tumultous time and explains to us why America is still a disgusting, fascist nation where dissidents are paid huge advances for preeening autobiographies and have to suffer the idignity of worshipful profiles in the New York Times.  <br />The Weathermen, as Ayers' comrades were known, were infamous for bombing what he calls &quot;symbols&quot; of American imperialism and capitalism.  Don't mistake this for terrorism though, because terrorists try to kill innocents whereas Ayers was going after -- well, &quot;symbols.&quot;  Comments like that, in all their arrogance, are perfect examples of why -- following Ayers' &quot;revolution&quot; -- America made such an abrupt turn from the ultra-liberalism of the '60s and '70s to the ultra-conservatism of the '80s.  Though nobody ever wants to seem to admit this, the radical politics of the '60s was built on a grad school elitism which left its proponents convinced of their own educated sainthood and, in their eyes, reduced the &quot;working man&quot; and minorities to the demeaning status of the &quot;noble savage.&quot;  And of course, since the radicals were all saints, anyone who disagreed with them had to be thoroughly demonic.  Of course, a lot of other people who opposed the Viet Nam War or were outraged by Nixon didn't share these views and, once those afermentioned events took the &quot;new left&quot; to a position of power, they reacted to that overeducated ignorance by electing men like Ronald Reagan and further upsetting Bill Ayers.<br />But, anyway, politics aside, this is just a remarkably self-righteous autobiography.  For a man who claims to have been fighting for the people, Bill Ayers comes across as remarkably self-centered.  The centerpiece of the book seems to the dark day in 1970 when three of his comrades managed to blow themselves up while making a bomb in their Greenwich Village Townhouse.  Ayers returns tothe event but strangely, let's us know little about the martyrs in question except how their deaths related to him.  (And, of course, it never seems strange to him that the Weatherman revolution was based in a townhouse that most &quot;oppressed&quot; Americans would never be able to afford.)  The man comes across as a narcissistic sociopath who found, in radical politics, an outlet for a basically unbalanced personality.  Ayers, at one point, brags that he's &quot;guilty as sin, free as a bird.&quot;  Yes, luckily for him, Bill Ayers doesn't live in the type of society that the Weathermen advocated; a society like Castro's Cuba where anyone showing dissent can be executed without trial.  No, he lives in America, one of the few countries that will protect you even as you try to destroy it.  One friend of mine told me that if Bill Ayers hates America so much, he should just leave it.  Ayers, unlike other revolutionaries across the world, actually has the option of leaving if he wants to.  He has that freedom and even if he's apparently too arrogant and, quite frankly, stupid to appreciate it, that still doesn't keep that freedom from being all the more beautiful and wonderful.	2001-10-04
US	42230879	R9R482BPFPGU0	0859652319	575184867	Steve McQueen: Portrait of an American Rebel	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A very cool book about one of our coolest stars	Its an overused word that is often devoid of any real meaning, but Steve McQueen was just cool. Even though he was usually described as being a &quot;limited&quot; actor, Steve McQueen was still a great star -- a talented man who perfectly understood his limitations and therefore was able to craft each of his films to perfectly showcase his strengths. As Marshall Terrill's biography shows, McQueen was an actor who always gave the perfect performance for the films he starred in. Therefore, if McQueen wasn't a &quot;great&quot; actor in the style of Paul Newman, he was a far more dependable actor and, in a true rarity nowadays, his was a name that you could trust when saw it on a theater marquee. Terrill's biography also shows that McQueen, as an actor, never succumbed to the elitism that seems to possess so many other film stars. He never forgot his humble roots and, as a result, he never committed the cardinal sin of seeing himself as being somehow above his audience. McQueen was loyal to the idea of providing entertainment yet, within those confines set for himself, managed to help craft such classic films as Bullitt, the Great Escape, The Sand Pebbles, and the Magnificent Seven. As Terrill shows, even when McQueen went through a &quot;classics&quot; period, he still made a film that fit in with his own personal view of what his audience would enjoy -- an unlikely, unjustly obscure version of Ibsen's Enemy of the People. Terrill's recounting of the making of Enemy is one of the book's highlights and, to the best of my knowledge, contains anecdotes and information that can't be found anywhere else.<br />Also, a great deal of fun comes from the book's final section -- a listing of films that McQueen decided not to make. This listing of films famous and obscure is a trivia browser's delight and also invites one to imagine what might have been. While sometimes that mind boggles, others -- such as Steve McQueen playing Kurtz in Apocalypse Now (imagine the military madman personified by a cool killer like McQueen as opposed to a massively bloated, rambling Marlon Brando) leave one mourning the unrealizing possibilities. <br />Of course, since this is Steve McQueen, a great deal of the book is taken up with details of rampaging drug abuse and chronic womanizing. Terrill presents these facts in a very unsensationalistic, straight forward way. Surely, Steve McQueen would have appreciated the no-BS style to Terrill's recounting. One thing becomes perfectly clear -- even if McQueen did, quite often, the wrong thing, he did it with enough style to make the &quot;correct&quot; alternatives look all the more dull. Luckily for filmgoers, Steve McQueen was never dull and luckily for readers, neither is Terrill's biography.	2001-10-02
US	42230879	RFOY0E88UAIJJ	0394400747	913350864	What Really Happened to the Class of '65	Books	5	64	65	N	N	My, how times have changed	Written in 1975, What Really Happened to the Class of '65 is a compilation of interviews with 30 members of the 1965 graduating class of Palisades High School. Most of those in question grew up in very affluent households and most of them, in the course of their interviews, seem to have an almost astounding ignorance of the fact that their teenage lives were hardly the norm. However, that's not a major problem or concern. Instead, what makes this book interesting is seeing just how much time has changed -- both in the ten years between their graduation and the book's publication and, even more so, in the decades after the book came out. On the whole, everybody in the book represents a certain type -- popular jerk, pretty boy, quarterback, nerd, bully, cheerleader, ect. However, in the course of some remarkably candid interviews, they're all given a chance to establish their own unique, for-the-most-part fairly likeable individual indentities. Reading it made me wonder what was really going on in the heads of those people I knew in high school who I simply assumed were bullies or jocks or cheerleaders or geeks and nothing else? It actually made me want to get in touch with people I barely knew just to find out who they were now.<br />Most of the interviewees share in common an amazement at how much times had changed between their high school graduation and 1975. All of them, for the most part, are quick to point out that they're now totally different (read: better) people. Most of them, as well, sound like almost stereotypical creatures of '70s -- i.e., the quarterback becomes a bisexual, new age minister, quite a few have made fortunes of their own but still proudly wear their hair long and seem to believe they were personally responsible for ending Viet Nam and forcing Nixon to resign. While reading, I found myself wondering what happened to these folks once the '80s hit, much less the '90s. On the whole, you could imagine most of them probably voted for Carter in'76 and then spent the next decade pursuing the same basic life styles that they seem so quick to attack their parents for doing. Its a shame that Medved and Wallechinsky didn't follow-up on these people in 1985 and 1995. (Though Wallechinsky did write a sequel on his own, for some reason he decided to interview a new batch of people!) Of course, the most interesting change to be found amongst the people profiled is that of co-author Michael Medved. In the book, he almost practically boasts of how, once in college, he dedicated all of his time to &quot;liberal politics.&quot; (Though, of course, he doesn't mention it, he was a friend to Clintons while at Yale.) Of course now, Medved is better known as one of the most outspokenly right-wing film critics out there. Many will enjoy this book for the nostalgia but for me, it'll always be wonderful proof that nothing -- be it your politics, your bank account, the length of you hair, or whatever else -- is ever as permanent as you might think.	2001-10-01
US	42230879	R13S2SHGZN6LTB	0671693948	964786287	Cult Movie Stars	Books	5	6	11	N	N	One of my favorite film critics	Though I know some people dislike him as much as others love him, I have to say that, for myself personally, no film historian better captures the love and exhiliration that can be felt from watching a truly wonderful movie.  In his writings, Danny Peary has always proven himself to be not only a student of films but also a fan.  And yes, there is a huge difference!  Peary came to prominence with his three Cult Film books.  Cult Film Stars provides a great companion for those books and is a lot of fun on its own as well.  Cult Film Stars is a thick compilation of entries, listing names from the expected (Pam Grier, Sonny Chiba, Klaus Kinski) to the unexpected (John Wayne, long though of so mainstream but Peary wonderfully shows how Wayne is almost as important as cult star as say Ed Wood's infamous friend Dudley Manlove).  Along with listing each star's important films, Peary crams each entry full of interesting and often humorous facts and observations.  This books works as a great introduction to films that many might otherwise have not heard of.  I was still in high school when it first came out and just starting to discover how much I truly loved film.  It was from this book that I first found out about such really cool (sorry if I sounded juvenile there but there's no better way to put it really) people like Pam Grier, Terrence Hill, and Toshiro Mifune.  His entries on Kay Lenz, Meg Foster, and Karen Allen helped me to discover such unsung entertainments as Breezy, Ticket to Heaven, and The Wanderers respectively.  A really great book for any film fanatic.  However, keep in mind, the book was also published a decade ago.  Some of the information will be dated but none the less interesting.	2001-10-01
US	42230879	R13KS65TU70NOP	0385486952	116329023	High Concept: Don Simpson and the Hollywood Cultures of Excess	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Disorganized but an interesting view of hollywood's worse	High Concept is the biography of one of the most hated men in Hollywood, producer Don Simpson.  According to the biography, Simpson was an arrogant, bullying, pig of a man who took controlled what kept people entertained despite having now discernible talents himself.  As a biography, the book is disappointing.  It jumps around a bit too much over the course of its narrative, making it difficult to really build up any sort of cohesive picture of who Simpson was or why he became such a hated figure.  For all of the faults ascribed to him (drug abuse, sexism, ignorance, you name it and Simpson apparently suffered from it), he doesn't sound any different from any of the other film producers who have spent the last few years tarnishing Hollywood's reputation.  There was one very interesting tidbit that I very much wish Fleming had followed up on.  In the early '90s, Simpson placed an anonymous personal ad in the papers.  All people who responded got a photography of himself that he was very proud of.  That pride came from the fact that he had just lost something like fifty pounds.  As sleazy as Simpson appears to have been and as pathetic as that personal ad and photo may have been, there's still a rather strange vulnerability there.  This is a man who had made millions and yet, he apparently felt he couldn't find love unless he proved that he was no longer quite as overweight as he had been when he first came to Hollywood.  I wondered if he was truly as evil as people said after his death, was he just insecure, or was he just a really stupid person?  It has the potential to present an interesting side to everyone's favorite Hollywood sleaze but Fleming never follows up on it.<br />However, the book does work on a more lurid level as a gossipy tour of Hollywood's drug-and-sex underground.  If you're interested in finding out which stars partied with which drug dealers this is the book for you! (Of course, I'm interested in all of that so I enjoyed the book.)<BR>  <BR>Itwas strange to witness the almost incredible joy that seemed to spread through the entertainment world when producer Don Simpson overdosed in the mid-90s.  Usually, even the most misogynistic of human beings are at least awarded a few kind sentiments at the time of their passing but Simpson got none of that.  Film insiders pointed to his reputation as a bully, his out-of-control drug habit, and especially his habit of beating prostitutes.  Meanwhile, self-appointed film &quot;experts&quot; accused the man of basically destroying Hollywood by making mindless, predictable actions films that produced a lot of profit and little art.  Never mind the fact that while the guy was alive, nobody seemed to mind inviting him to their parties or making him a partner at his studios.  Never mind, that for all the talk about high concept films are the greatest evil known to man, we still spend our hard-earned money to see them.  Face it, just because we spent the hour after Pearl Harbor talking about how much we hated it, that doesn't change the fact that we paid our money and we're never getting it back.  As always, it seems a lot easier to judge and condemn someone else's faults even as we go out of our way to make those faults possible.	2001-10-01
US	42230879	R1QOLLBCFI6B0Q	0892341009	530801502	The Almanac of American Politics 2002	Books	5	16	28	N	Y	A truly wonderful gift to all us political junkies	I bought my first Alamanac of American Politics in 1988 at the tender age of 15 and even then, it quickly became my favorite book.  Every two years, I saved up my money in order to splurge on each new edition and I also haunted every public library in town searching for past editions.  Though a great deal of the Alamanac does repeat itself from edition to edition (after all, how many new things can you really write about Strom Thurmond?), its still interesting to see how it has changed from the original 1972 edition.  Whereas the first editions of the Almanac (most of them under 500 pages long if you can believe it!) tended to ignore going into a great deal of detail about individual politicians (instead choosing to focus on their district and their votes), later editions have become jam-packed with just about everything you could possibly want to know about the nearly six hundred men and women detailed within its pages.  And to their credit, the Alamanac's editors haven't allowed these changes to dilute any coverage of practical matters like voting records and election results.  In short, for those of us who can't get enough political news (regardless of whether its hard news or just gossipy rumors of scandal), this book is priceless.  Within its now nearly 2000 pages, you'll find information on every single Congressman, Senator, and Governor along with a fully detailed analysis of their states and districts.  Its an amazing undertaking.  As well, the 2002 edition managed to keep up with most of the developing political news up to the point of its publication (i.e., the Jeffords party switch, upcoming special elections).  In short, with this Alamanac, you won't have the experience of reading a detailed analysis about an obscure but important politician just to later discover that politician happened to die a few months before the Alamanac was shipped to book stores -- a frequent occurance with previous editions.  Still, this latest edition is out-of-date on two events, one a gossipy scandal and the other much, much more.  No mention is made of Gary Condit's troubles but, even more hauntingly, this edition was completed and released shortly before the terrorist attacks that destroyed the World Trade Center.  As much fun as the latest Alamanac is, its hard to read it without considering how much the political landscape has been forcefully (and traumatically) changed in less than a month.  The Alamanac can be accurately described as a portrait of America and its sad to realize that the 2002 edition -- the most up-to-date edition yet -- is still a portrait of an America that doesn't quite exist today.<br />On another note, many more liberal readers have complained over the past few years that the Alamanac's editor, Michael Barone, is unfairly biased against Democrats.  It is true that Barone is a self-declared conservative and its also true that over the years, his more liberal co-editors have moved on to other projects and more or less left Barone in charge of the entire project.  So, basically, yes -- Barone is definitely far more critical of Democratic politicians than of Republicans.  But, honestly, so what?  Essentially since Watergate, the national media has been blatantly biased against anyone who happens to be a Republican.  After several decades of being described as an intolerant, heartless crook (and worse) because of my party registration, its hard to build up much sympathy for people who get upset because Barone might occasionally be too quick to point out that an unsuccesful Democratic candidate didn't run an effective campaign.  Its hard to see how Barone saying the Paul Wellstone seems &quot;awkward in the Senate&quot; is somehow more offensive then the national media's refusal to identify Gary Condit as a Democrat.  But even beyond such partisan bickering, the Alamanac of American Politics is released specifically for people who love to follow politics, for people who make a point to remain politically savvy.  People who aren't into politics probably aren't going to spend fifty bucks to get any of the past or present editions of this book.  In short, the Alamanac will be read by people who are smart enough to recognize bias (liberal or conservative) and capable of making up their own minds.  To get upset because Barone, in the process of putting together perhaps the greatest political resource available today, doesn't go out of his way to defend Al Gore's demands for a Florida recount is just plain silly.	2001-09-28
US	42230879	R3TPIOL29AMYEV	0385084889	890677887	Doc Savage: His Apocalyptic Life	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A lot of fun	Doc Savage is one of those enduring pulp icons who will always have a cult following no matter how many years pass since his heyday.  The creation of writer Lester Dent, Doc Savage was a combination private eye/crusading scientist/super hero who, with the help of his loyal assistant, managed to defeat some of the most evil threats that mankind has ever had to face.  Certainly a bit corny but always a great deal of fun, the Doc Savage tales were always amongst the best of their type and, as the world continues to get more and more complicated, there's something wonderfully reassuring about entering into Doc Savage's world and discovering that evil can always be defeated by one bronze skinned genius.  For this reason, Doc Savage continues to maintain a loyal fan base into the present day.  One of these fans was the late science fiction writer Phillip Jose Farmer (creator of the Riverworld series and several other underground classics).  Farmer wrote Doc Savage, His Apocalyptic Life as an obvious labor of love.  While he goes out of his way to try to accurately document the mythos of Doc Savage (though some critics are correct when they point out that he sometimes draws conclusions that are far more Farmer than Dent), Farmer does so with a welcomed tone of uptmost (if still bemused) seriousness.  Treating this book as not just a long fan letter but instead as an actual biography of an actual man, Farmer affords Doc Savage fans a dignity that others who have attempted to write about classic pulp icons haven't.  <br />The book to a certain extent acts as a sequel to Farmer's better known (but, to me, of lesser quality) Tarzan Alive.  As in the Tarzan book, Farmer concludes with lengthy and imaginative geneaology in which he manages (with not too many excessive liberties taken with their established canons) to show that every pulp hero was in some way related.  Along with Tarzan, Doc Savage is soon to be related to Bulldog Drummond, James Bond, Nero Wolfe, The Scarlet Pimpernil, Prof. Challenger, the Shadow, and just about anyone else you could think of.  No, its not meant to be taken seriously but, like the original Doc Savage stories themselves, its still a lot of fun.	2001-09-28
US	42230879	RJ1KVO0OBO7DZ	0441519652	534152417	Mark Coffin U.S.S.	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Not Drury's best	I always enjoy the books of Allen Drury because I enjoy politics in general and I'm a Republican.  Drury, of course, wrote exclusively about the men and women of Washington and was unapologetically conservative.  There aren't many conservative novelists out there so Drury's books always served as a nice relief but unfortunately, outside of his Advise and Consent series, few of his novels live up to their promise.  After winning his pulitzer prize for Advice and Consent, Drury seemed to spend the rest of his career essentially rewriting that book.  Mark Coffin, USS is a good example.  The novel, from the '70s by which time American politics had changed considerably since Drury wrote his first classic book, deals with California's junior Senator -- the idealistic and niave liberal Mark Coffin.  Only thirty years old, Coffin enters the Senate as something of a celebrity and immediately finds himself thrust into a battle over the President's choice for Attorney General.  Unfortunately, all of this brings up memories of Advise and Consent's battle over the President's choice for Secretary of State and the comparisons are not favorable.  Whereas Advice and Consent was blessed with some very complex characters, Mark Coffin and his fellow Senators all seem to be faded carbon copies of the characters from that earlier book.  None of them capture the imagination and most of them are flatly written.  Mark Coffin, especially, seems to be compiled of every other young, idealistic politician that has appeared in countless other political novels over the years.  As a character, he can't surprise us and as such, his lessons and conflicts simply do not hold the reader's interest.  As well, most of the dialouge and scenes seem rather corny at best as if Drury, the '50s political insider, had spent the last twenty years forgetting everything he knew.  In the end, Drury seems to be trying to write a novel about the Washington he knew set in the very different, post-Watergate politicalclimate and, as such, comes across as being, for lack of a better term, lost.  Still, bizarrely enough, this book is also a rare Drury book that contains a few really sterling and lyrical prose passages as opposed to the somewhat rough, awkwardly constructed sentences he became infamous for in most of his other books.  Sadly, one gets the feeling that Drury was making a real effort to craft an important statement with this book (certainly, America needed one at that time).  Unfortunately, the times had just passed him by.	2001-09-28
US	42230879	R1KQVR01E4E0YX	0816521751	600580286	Too Funny To Be President	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Warm, witty, and wonderful	Until forced to retire by the onset of Parkinson's Disease, Morris Udall represented his Arizona district in the U.S. House for several decades and in that time, the tall, one-eyed, unrepentantly liberal Mormon cut one of the most distinctive and respected figures in the U.S. politics.  As well as being a skillful politician and a hard-working legislator, Mo Udall was also one of the most genuinely witty men to ever hold public office.  In 1976, Udall was one of the major candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination and when he lost, he did it in a way that only a true wit like himself could properly appreciate.  He managed to finish second in almost every primary he entered.  His status as apparently everyone's &quot;second choice&quot; led more than one commentator to wonder if Udall, who by the campaign's end would regularly great crowds with &quot;Hello, I'm Ronald Reagan,&quot; was actually just &quot;too funny to be President.&quot;  Appropriately, when Udall wrote his memiors, he chose this question for his title.  <br />What sets Udall's autobiography apart from other political memoirs?  The answer is quite simply Mo Udall, himself.  Udall had a gift for never giving into the pompous self-importance that seems to end up infecting the majority of men who spend most of their lives in government.  Even when recounting his '76 presidential run, Udall keeps the mood nicely light.  This is one of those rare political bios that I think would actually entertain someone with absolutely no interest in politics.  The only time that Udall allows himself to grow overly serious is in his discussion of the censure of Harlem's flamboyant Congressman Adam Clayton Powell and Udall's account of that still-controversial event reads like a thriller.  Instead of allowing himself to get murked down in insider boasts, Udall wrote a book where he basically just told some interesting stories from his past and he wrote those stories not for political insiders but for the everyday Americans that he obviously loved so much.  I'm a Republican so even if Udall ever had won the presidential nomination, I probably wouldn't have voted for him.  But after reading this bio, you can't help but wish there were more men like Morris Udall in both political parties -- men who never let their pursuit of political power purge them of their own essential human decency.<br />Also to be treasured is the book's final half which simply consists of some of Morris Udall's favorite jokes.  He also spends a great deal of time explaining the best way to deliver a joke in a speech.  In a time when so many people seem to find &quot;Whasssup!?&quot; to be the height of wit, Udall's advice and genuiness is greatly appreciated.  Morris Udall may have been too funny to be President but obviously, he wasn't too funny to write one of the most heart-warming bios I've ever had the pleasure to read.	2001-09-28
US	42230879	R2IVIC1VJ8EE90	0963395300	547665729	Shekhinah: The Presence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Definitely something to take a chance on	I was lucky enough to get a chance to hear Joseph Zitt read aloud from Shekhinah a few years back.  Immersed in both the strong Jewish literary tradition and Zitt's own immeasurable poetic talents, its a strong, intensely moving work that defies any standard description.  Strongly recommended for anyone looking for a chance to experience a great, unsung poet or whose just looking for a chance to see the beauty of language wonderfully displayed.  One of the wonderful things about sites like Amazon.com (and others) is that it allows us a chance to discover wonders that we otherwise might never even hear about.  Shekhina is one of those wonders and I'd encourage everyone to give it a shot.  You won't be disappointed.	2001-09-27
US	42230879	R1TR07PFANDNE0	0967282233	886940629	Split Image: The Life of Anthony Perkins	Books	4	44	45	N	N	The enigmatic Tony Perkins revealed...sort of	Best known, of course, as Norman Bates in the original Psycho, Tony Perkins remains one of those iconic stars who somehow remains a mystery himself.  Though this biography (the first in-depth look at his life to be published after his death from AIDS in the early '90s) doesn't offer a lot of insight into what made him tick, it still reveals that Perkins was more than just Norman Bates and that he had the talent to create more characters than just the jittery motel owner.  Ultimately, Split Image becomes a listing of the events of Perkins' life.  Luckily, Perkins lived a pretty interesting life.<br />When this book first came out, it got a lot of attention because of its revelations concerning Perkins' secret homosexual life style and his affair, in the 1950s, with fellow matinee idol Tab Hunter.  (Though its indicative of the book's rather strangely reserved style that at no point is it directly said that Hunter and Perkins were lovers.  Instead, its merely insinuated or left assumed -- much like the tabloids that hounded Hunter and Perkins for most of their secret relationship.)  Despite a few generic comments about the difficulty of living a lie, the book doesn't really give any insight on what it was like to be in the Hollywood closet in the '50s and early '60s.  While we learn about Perkins attempts to hide his sexuality, we never really learn how he felt about the deception.  Nor do we ever really gain any insight into his later marriage to Berry Berenson and whether it was a marriage of convenience or if Perkins and Berenson truly were in love.  Even Perkins claims to have outgrown his past homosexuality is merely reported on without any further commentary on the validity of the claim.  <br />However, this book is invaluable for revealing that Tony Perkins actually did have a life when he wasn't Norman Bates.  For instance, if not for this book, I would have never have known that, even after his reputation started to decline, Perkins was a respected and distinguished theater director.  I wouldn't have known that he was once something of a Broadway musical store.  These are all images that run counter to the image of Perkins as a cross-dressing mass murderer and Winecoff is to be commended for showing us that while Norman Bates may have been created from parts of Tony Perkins, Tony Perkins was never Norman Bates.  Instead, he was a talented man who created one of the most recognizable, powerful performances in the history of film and as a result of his grand accomplishment, he suffered for the rest of his life.  Its a compelling story and even if Winecoff doesn't get under the surface of this split image, it remains a fascinating portrait of a classic enigma.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R151RCM1HAHE49	0140168125	146741920	Big Sur	Books	5	131	132	N	N	An amazing book	Big Sur is one of the most harrowing books ever written about alcoholism, mental illness, and fame.  The demons that Jack Kerouac describes in this book will be nothing new to people who have read the previous novels in his autobiographical Dulouz Saga.  Throughout all of his work, Kerouac was painfully honest about his problems with alcohol, his tendency towards manic depression and paranoia, and his inability to find joy or hope in anything for too long of a time.  However, in Big Sur, one thing has changed.  Kerouac's surrogate Jack Dulouz is now a famous writer -- an icon to young, wanna-be beatniks everywhere.  Whereas previously Dulouz's breakdowns were, at least, only seen by his friends, he now finds his problems observed, it seems, by the entire world.  Reeling from the sudden success of his novel &quot;Road&quot; (which, of course, is Kerouac's On the Road), Dulouz accepts an invitation to spend a few months at a cabin in Big Sur where he can get away from his new admirers (who, in a few bitingly humorous passages, are described as tracking him down at his mother's house, expecting to find a young hellion and becoming angered when they find the actual middle-aged, rather conservative Dulouz).  Alone, Dulouz hopes to commune with nature but instead, he finds the crashing of the nearby surf to be oppressive and even imagines it as a voice condemning him for his many sins.  As a result, Dulouz descends further and further into alcoholism and insanity before finally hitchhiking to a nearby town where he ends up romantically entangled with a truly horrific woman and coming face-to-face with his future fate if he doesn't change his ways.  (Sadly, the fate that Dulouz tries to escape in this book would be the fate that would eventually claim Kerouac in reality.)  Its a harrowing vision, one that is as readable as it is scary.  Especially poignant is the knowledge that Kerouac pretty much wrote the book as the events were happening.  When we see Dulouz go insane,its impossible to forget that Kerouac wrote this while going crazy himself.  <br />There's been a tendency to undervalue the literary worth of Jack Kerouac.  While most critics will now grudgingly admit the importance of On the Road, his other works are often dismissed.  Beyond a loyal following, many seem to agree with Truman Capote's unfair assessment of Kerouac's work -- &quot;That's not writing.  Its typing.&quot;  Well, it is true that Kerouac's writing was basically a recording of the events of his life and, much like life, Kerouac's books often had a certain randomness to them.  While it is incorrect to see that they lacked structure, it was a very subtle structure that demanded the reader search his words for the hidden meaning on their own as opposed to simply having Kerouac's themes spoon fed to them.  What is often missed that if Kerouac was simply recording his life, he still did it with a talent and an honesty that elavated events that might have been dismissed as mundane or simply pathetic and instead, shaped them into a haunting portrait of what it was like to be lost in a country that seemed to regard that as a crime.  Big Sur seems to serve as his answer to all of those who were too quick to automatically idealize the vision he put forth in On the Road.  Its a book that everyone who claims to be imitating Kerouac's popular image should read.  There was a lot more to Jack Kerouac's talent than just the media hype surrounding the so-called Beat Generation and Kerouac deserves better than to be remembered for only one (admitedly wonderful) book.  Big Sur is one of the greatest American novels of the 20th Century and remains Jack Kerouac's most vibrant literary legacy.  Unfortunately, he destroyed himself to create it.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R10ALJSPDJQRVJ	044681637X	361687579	Fishbait: The Memoirs of the Congressional Doorkeeper	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Engaging and Informative	William \\"Fishbait\\" Miller is one of those obscure figures who were lucky enough (or unlucky enough) to observe more of America's recent political history than the majority of us could ever hope to know.  We could spend an entire lifetime learning what Miller observed firsthand.  For several decades, he served as the doorkeeper for the U.S. House of Represenatives.  During that time, he met and got to know some of the most prominent figures of recent American history -- Sam Rayburn, Adam Clayton Powell, Gerald Ford, Bella Abzug, Richard Nixon, and many others while remaining unknown to the general public.  <br />When Miller finally left his position in the mid-70s, he produced this engaging memoir, a good-humored look at the men and the institution that he had previously devoted his life too.  Though slight on any in-depth analysis, the book is a treasure trove of anecdotes that reveal the human side of our often impersonal Congress.  If you want to know about Congressman Marion Zioncheck's notorious drinking escapades of the 1930s or which Congressman was the most sensually-minded this is the book to read.  This is the book is you want to know what a Sam Rayburn or a Lyndon Johnson was really like before they became just more distinguished names in stuffy history books.  As well, Miller's details of the 1950 attack on Congress by Puerto Rican terrorists (a terrifying moment that, now forgotten, carries some renewed weight following the recent terrorist atrocities in New York and Washington) is both harrowing and moving.<br />Though a proud Democrat, Miller's book is nicely nonpartisan, treating Republicans with the same affection as Miller's comrades.  In fact, the only completely negative, unsympathetic portrait in the book is reserved for a Democrat, the notorious Rep. Wayne Hays who was known as the \\"meanest man in the House.\\"  Miller, who lost his job as a result of Hays, takes a sly delight in showing us why that reputation was deserved.<br />This is an enjoyable, engaging memoir that should be required reading to anyone interested in the human side of American political history.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R2HKGS4BKMBP1B	0785100393	971659170	X-Men: God Loves, Man Kills (Marvel Graphic Novel, No 5)	Books	4	14	21	N	N	A very strong parable	Wow, do I remember what an uproar this caused when it first came out!  As the murderous villian presented himself as a man of God, many incorrectly saw this graphic novel (and, in regards to complex characters, a compelling plot, and thematic depth, this does indeed deserve to be called a novel) as being an attack on religion.  Its nothing of the sort.  Instead, this is an attack on racism and intolerance in all its forms -- even the kindly-looking forms that speak words of love while thinking only thoughts of hate.<br />The plot deals with the anti-mutant crusade of a televangelist whose followers back up his sermons with murderous violence.  (The opening scenes in which two mutant children are ruthlessly gunned down is powerful and haunting.)  The X-Men (mutants themselves for those who, for whatever reason, might not know) join forces with their usual nemesis, Magneto, and, in the course of battling the nominal villians, they must decide for themselves whether to follow a path of peace or to give into Magneto's call for violent revolution.<br />Its a strong story and one of the best to come out of what, in my opinion at least, was the X-Men's strongest creative period.  Considering the violence, sex, and sadism that's become almost common place in all forms of &quot;entertainment&quot; nowadays, the violence in God Loves, Man Kills seems almost quaint.  Unlike so many others in his field, Claremont takes no joy from creating violence and never sinks so low as to cheapen the suffering found within this graphic novel's pages.  For that he is to be comended.  Hopefully, other aspiring comic book writers will take his lesson to heart and return the industry back to where it truly deserves to be.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R2HB4258YSP46G	0814719392	820264438	Guess Who's Coming to Dinner Now? Multicultural Conservatism in America	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Timely but slight	Multicultural conservatism is often treated like &quot;the evil that no one dark speaks its name.&quot;  When it is acknowledged that the number of black, hispanic, and gay conservatives is actually on the rise, it is often done with a strange sort of somberness -- as if the fact that Larry Elder might not agree with Al Sharpton is somehow indicative of some terrible social problem.  Certainly, common sense would say that, just as white males often disagree with each other, so would everyone else.  But, for whatever reason, most commentators seem to be both amazed and disturbed to see that not all minorities can be easily categorized into one vague ideological subgroup.  <br />In her slight (far-too-short for the subject matter she's trying to address) book, self-described liberal Angela Dillard makes an attempt to present a non-biased, clear headed view of these &quot;multicultural conservatives.&quot;  While it is indeed nice to see that this trend is finally getting some sort of attention, Dillard still fails to achieve her goal.  Her own politics run rampant through the book and she can't resist the temptation to editorially comment on the views of her subjects -- often with the same degrading attitude that she claims to have written this book to combat.  In fact, Dillard's weakness is apparent from just the title of her book.  Its doubtful that many of the commentators Dillard describes in her book would appreciate being referred to as &quot;multi-cultural.&quot;  While paying lip service to the unwarranted dismissal of folks like Larry Elder and Armstrong Williams by the liberal media, Dillard instead spends most of her time obsessing over the apparent &quot;exploitation&quot; of these conservatives by the Republican Party.  For all of her claims to the contrary, its obvious that Dillard is no different from other dismissive analysts in her refusal to see her subjects as individuals as opposed to just some group of bizarre crackpots.<br />There's little doubtthat people like Linda Chavez, Elder, Williams, Ward Connerly, and others would rather be known simply as &quot;conservatives&quot; then to be labeled and set apart on account of their race and gender.  Unfortunately, that's not going to happen.  Not until it becomes acceptable to admit that white, middle class males aren't the only ones capable of forming their own opinions through their own independent thoughts and individual beliefs.  Dillard's book is a beginning but its hardly the definitive treatment.  Its not even close.  Some day, hopefully, someone will have the guts to set aside their own biases and treat these individuals as just that -- Individuals with the dignity they deserve.  Unfortunately, that may require more guts than most political analyst's seem to possess nowadays.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R26TVHSP76XSR4	0061007161	557309550	First Among Equals	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Nothing Special	I read this book the day after Lord Archer was sentenced to prison on perjury charges.  As Archer was one of the few openly conservative writers out there, I was disappointed to hear of his sentencing and, in reading my first Archer book, I was hoping to discover an unsung masterpiece.  Unfortunately, what I got in First Among Equals was a typical, not terribly enthralling soap opera that just happened to take place in the British Parliament as opposed to Peyton Place.<br />Essentially, the novel follows the political careers of three men as they win their first elections to Parliament and, over the decades, rise through the ranks until finally they find themsleves dueling for the office of Prime Minister.  As promising as this might sound, the hopeful premise is defeated by Archer's bland writing style and his refusal to give any of his characters -- from the three protaganists to their various lovers to the minor characters who pop up occasionally -- any semblance of personality beyond the most basic.  One character's a self-centered rich boy and then another one is an angry son of the working class and so on.  In short, not a single character who in any way comes across as unique or even truly alive.  As well, Archer spends far too much time on supporting characters like the obnoxius Alec Pimpkin who is apparently supposed to be some sort of charming rogue but is never given any flair by the author and as such just becomes a distraction.<br />However, this book does earn an extra star for me because Archer does present an easily understood explanation of the rules of Parliament and helped to clear up a lot of questions that I had regarding how the Prime Minister is elected and how the entire government is run.  Being an American, I've always watched in a sort of bemused confusion whenever the Prime Minister's given a speech before Parliament just to find himself being booed and catcalled by the opposition.  Archer, himself, a former member of Parliament, obviously enjoys explaining the arcane rules of the government and manages to slip in several amusing anecdotes from the history of Parliament.  These brief digressions are the only time the book comes alive and one regrets that Archer didn't just write political history as opposed to trying to be a novelist.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R3EELZ5IDUX0OI	0785100407	952334995	The Death of Captain Marvel	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Marvel's first ever graphic novel	There's a tendency to dismiss the comic book industry as being hopelessly juvenile with an infantile addiction to graphic violence and adolescent sexual imagery.  Unfortunately, in some cases, this is a correct assessment.  But then there are the other, too often ignored comics that transcend such self-imposed limitations.  The Death of Captain Marvel is one such example.<br />Originally published in 1982, this was the first of Marvel's graphic novels and it has been said, quite correctly, that it revolutionized an industry that had started to grow fatally stagnant.  Just as the title says, Jim Starlin's wonderfully written and illustrated novel details the last days of Marvel mainstay Capt. Marr-Vell (an alien better known as Capt. Marvel in one of those delightful comic book coincidences).  After years of battling various cosmic foes of all size and evil, Marvel finds himself felled by that most human and realistic of diseases.  He had cancer and a great deal of this graphic novel examines how his super powered friends react to the death of one of their own from a disease that could have afflicted any of them.  Though Starlin allows for a bit of the expected super heroic melodrama, overall the Death of Captain Marvel is distinguished by a quiet, contemplative mood as Marvel deals with his impending death.  In the end, its rather touching and truly thought provoking.<br />The term graphic novel is one that gets mocked.  It sometimes seems to reek of fanboy pretension.  The Death of Captain Marvel reminds us of what a graphic novel was originally supposed to be.  A comic book, yes, but a comic book for adults -- a comic book that eschewed the melodrama and absurdities of a monthly title and instead used the format to say something truly special.  The Death of Captain Marvel more than lives up to that promise.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R1FRB4CK7TY49M	1557833478	704314599	The Battle of Brazil: Terry Gilliam v. Universal Pictures in the Fight to the Final Cut (The Applause Screenplay Series)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A great book about a great film	Terry Gilliam's satirical film (usually referred to as being science fiction though its actually the furthest from that) Brazil is one of the greatest unseen film of the past few decades.  While the film has a strong cult following, most mainstream audiences never had a chance to see this film and the few that did found themselves confronted not with Gilliam's original vision but instead with a severely shortened and defanged bastardization that was edited under the supervision of less-than-visionary studio head Sid Sheinberg.<br />How this came to be is the subject of Jack Matthews' fascinating book, The Battle of Brazil which follows the creation of this masterpiece from the germ of inspiration to the film's triumphant success at the 1985 Los Angeles Film Critics Awards.  Along the way, we get a wonderful view into the heads of both Gilliam and Sheinberg.  (Though the book is clearly on Gilliam's side, Sheinberg is not presented extremely unfairly.  If he comes across as a bit of an unimaginative ogre at times -- well, that's because he was.)  We get the full details of Gilliam's battles with Sheinberg over both the length and the tone of the film and, in one of the book's best chapters, an in-depth analysis of the differences between the two versions.  This chapter, I think, beautifully illustrates how, just through selective editing, you can change the entire feel of a film without reshooting a single shot.  Much as how you can't help staring at a car wreck, there's a sick fascination with how Sheinberg was able to change Brazil from one of the greatest films of all time to a bland, unmemorable love story without any apparent sense of humor.<br />The behind-the-scenes details of the making of the film itself are anecdote filled and a great read with candid details that cover everything from how Gilliam's original vision evolved during the shooting to his on-set difficulties with actress Kim Griest.  Especially amusing to me were the lists of actors also considered for the lead role of Sam.  One's mind boggles at some of the suggestions (Tom Cruise!?) and makes Jonathan Pryce's sly lead performance all the more appreciated.<br />The last half of the book contains Gilliam's shooting script for his version of Brazil, along with copious footnotes that clear up several of the obscurities (i.e., what the singing telegram girl is singing, what Michael Palin's daughter says to Sam) that have occasionally confused even the most devoted of audiences.  Its a brilliant script to boost.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R10OAIB3Q7PS9F	1893626229	887990849	You Are Going to Prison	Books	4	38	41	N	N	A strong warning	Jim Hogshire's underground classic You are Going to Prison is probably one of the strongest arguements against criminal behavior ever published. Certainly, his guidebook for how to survive behind bars is much more effective than the horror stories and stern warnings that we've been getting from actual law enforcement officials over the past few decades. To a certain extent, I think that's because the police, when they tell you not to break the law, are doing their job. Hogshire, on the other hand, writes with a certain brutal simplicity with an attitude of, &quot;If you're stupid enough to go to prison, here's what's going to happen. Your choice.&quot;<br />Anyway, the book itself is just what it claims to be. A guidebook for what to reasonably expect if you should happen to find yourself confined to prison. It doesn't paint a pretty picture but will be found fascinating by anyone with an interest in criminal behavior, law enforcement, or anyone whose just curious about aspects of life they'll probably never actually get a chance to experience. It is true that Hogshire isn't a huge fan of law enforcement authorities but at the same time, that shouldn't be taken to mean that he in any way glorifies criminals or prison life.<br />I've read that this book has become dated since its original release. That wouldn't surprise me. With outside society growing grimmer by the minute, one can only guess what must be going on in America's prisons. Still, even if dated, this is a harrowing (if at times strangely humorous -- Hogshire has a corrosive wit that will be appreciated by anyone with a bit of the cynic inside of them) look at a place none of us ever want to end up.	2001-09-26
US	42230879	R1NSLVQ3MZDKJS	0804109990	99157464	Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets	Books	5	95	99	N	N	Amazing	Appropriately enough, one of the best cop shows in the history of television was based on one of the best true crime books ever written.  Journalist David Simon spent a year observing Baltimore Homicide detectives and it is their poignantly true stories -- almost all as funny, heartbreaking, and memorable as any fiction -- that make up this book.  While fans of the TV show will immediately recognize the initial templates for such beloved characters as Frank Pembleton, Bayliss, Munch, and others, this amazing book is much more than just a basis for a classic television show.  It is, quite simply, one of the most insightful books about modern law and order ever written.  All of the detectives live brilliantly on the page and Simon's prose reminds us what great writing actually is.  Though this is a word I've probably overused in this review, there is no other way to describe Simon's achievement: amazing.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	RKVOQNOYRY76L	0899506534	963347158	Minor Presidential Candidates and Parties of 1992: A Reference	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Amusing overview of the fringe	Every four years, hundreds of men and women run for President and toil in obscurity as election coverage is dominated by the two major parties.  It seems with each election, there's a predictable round of hand-wringing about the limitations of the two-party system and a lot of people saying that its time for a third party.  Yet strangely, none of these folks ever seem to make any effort to generate publicity for any of the independent candidates running.  If you want to know why this is, you're best bet is to look over Glenn Day's overview of the obscurities who competed with Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush, and H. Ross Perot for the presidency in 1992.<br />Day presents a very unbiased view of these sometimes sincere, sometimes goofy, and a few times just plain crazy candidates.  Instead of commenting on these campaigns or their platforms, Day instead reprints the candidate's own promotional material with no attempt at editing.  These are the candidates in their own words and what words they are!  Lyndon LaRouche worries about the British/Zionist conspiracy, Mrs. Frank Stewart lets us know that a woman's proper place is in the home (except for herself apparently), and Calvin Harris lets us know that the Republicans have spent the past ten years conspiring against him.  My personal favorite is Fred Irwin Sitnick Messiah who lets us know that his platform consisted of: &quot;End poverty, crime, war, insanity.  Jobs for all.  Much more.&quot;  With these and many more profiles, an amusing and sometimes sad portrait emerges of a community that, for whatever reason, are convinced that they can save the world if only they could get the rest of the world to listen.  They may sometimes be ludicrous but its hard not to feel a bit of sympathy for these dreamers who have managed to convince themselves, if no one else, that a great destiny awaits.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R1TWBKE3LVSJZJ	0679749012	76874151	The Breast	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Slight but worthwhile	Ah, Phillip Roth.  The dirty old man of American literature; if he didn't exist, someone would have surely created him.  Ironically enough, that someone would probably be one of the people who find him and his work to be terribly offensive.  At times, Roth seems to be writing specifically to offend, as if he knows that without his dirty thoughts, a lot of self-appointed puritans would have a lot less outrage to keep their days active.  Certainly, The Breast is a book that superficially seems to be designed specifically to offend delicate sensibilities.  The book's narrator wakes up one morning to discover that he has been transformed into a huge female breast.  The rest of this rather short book (I completed it in a little less than an hour) is devoted to detailing how this one man adjusts to his new life as a breast.  Though Roth never goes for any glib explanations as to how or why this transformation took place, one can't help but get the feeling that the narrator -- so obsessed with sex -- finally just transformed into that which he had become fixated.  However, one can't also help but feel that this explanation is a result of reading too much into Roth's whimsical, deadpan fable.  <br />Anyway, as for the meat-and-bones of this review, this is a book that I have to recommend to all Phillip Roth fans and to anyone with an affinity for bizarre, off-center satire.  If you don't like Roth, you probably won't care much for this book.  As well, this is not a book to read if you're looking for an introduction to Phillip Roth.  Though amusing, its certainly not anywhere near his best work.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R25SNFJ3MUCHKC	1575661063	218377648	The Kennedy Men: Three Generations Of Sex, Scandal And Secrets	Books	2	8	16	N	N	To quote Lenny Briscoe:	&quot;Thank God for the Kennedys.  Without them, a lot of bad writers would be waiting tables.&quot;  I heard this line on a recent rerun of Law &amp; Order and it immediately made me think about Nellie Bly's The Kennedy Men, one of the more superflous books claiming to give us the dirt on America's prodigal sons.  Basically, what Bly has done is compiled a collection of facts culled from other, better Kennedy books and recorded them in the breathless prose of a tabloid reporter.  There's nothing new within this book and, despite Bly's claims to the contrary, no valuable or new insight to be gained from what is basically a list of other people's dirty laundry.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R2TLL7DESUVLAH	0380708825	498307136	Literary Outlaw: The Life and Times of William S. Burroughs	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The amazing life of a junkie genius	The late William S. Burroughs was one of the most compelling and frustrating writers of our times.  For every work of dryly humorous genius like Junky and Naked Lunch, there were dozens of frustrating, obscure works that seemed to be more the product of Burroughs' infamous heroin addiction than his own imagination.  As others have stated, to truly understand much of Burroughs' work, one has to first understand the man himself and, to my knowledge, there is no better resource than Ted Morgan's long, detailed, but never boring biography.  In Literary Outlaw, we get the details of Burroughs' seminal friendships with such future literary icons as Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac and we also explore the most controversial aspect of the man's life -- the shooting death of his wife, Joan.  (After shooting her in the head, Burroughs claimed they were simply playing a game of &quot;William Tell.&quot;)<br />If just for this information, this book would be a valuable resource but Morgan goes further.  He details Burroughs' life after his fame as one of the original beat writers faded.  He explains what was actually going on in Burroughs'head when he created the later works that left so many readers not only confused but often rather angry at this man they'd previously clutched to their own artistic souls (perhaps a bit too quickly, as Morgan reveals with an unflinching candor).  <br />The Burroughs who emerges in this book is neither the decadent bohemian of the literary imagination nor the devil incarnate that so many of his critics imagined him to be.  Instead, William S. Burroughs comes across as nothing less than the Forrest Gump of modern literature.  Somehow, this quiet, rather reserved midwesterner manages to pop up at just about every important underground cultural event of recent history -- often, it seems, just by chance.  In Literary Outlaw, Morgan not only gives us a revealing look at the usual suspects -- Kerouac, Ginsberg, Corso, and the other Beats -- but also draws sharp portraits of figures ranging from Terry Southern to Dennis Hopper to James Baldwin to John Houston to thousands of others.  Some are famous, some obscure, but all prove to be as fascinating as Burroughs himself.<br />This is an amazing book, a must for anyone with any interest in the Beats, American literature, world history, or who just wants a chance to relive a truly fascinating life.  Be warned though -- Burroughs was both very open about his homosexuality and his drug addictions.  Morgan, to his credit, doesn't shy away from detailing these aspects of Burroughs' life.  Also to his credit, Morgan neither condemns nor celebrates.  In short, prudes need not apply.  For the rest of us though, this is a valuable book to be cherished.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R2V4EQKWXXVLDQ	0870004727	893532242	The candidates 1980	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Nice artifact from the recent past	Candidates 1980 is a book dealing with -- surprise, surprise -- the candidates in the 1980 presidential campaign.  As a former staffer with the Nixon White House, Bakshian makes little secret of his own Republican bias but is also surprisingly skeptical of the eventual Republican nominee and President Ronald Reagan.  Though forgotten by history, many Republicans shared Bakshian's concerns and his book serves as a good artifact for students of political science who want a chance to see what people were really saying and thinking before modifying their views in hindsight.  As well, Bakshian provides a thorough examination of the other contenders for the Republican and Democratic nominations -- giving as serious attention to forgotten contenders like Republicans Phil Crane, Larry Pressler, and Ben Hernandez as he does to familiar names like Reagan, Bush, Carter, Kennedy, and Dole.  (Even Jerry Brown is analyzed though one gets the feeling Bakshian -- for all his skill as an analyst -- could never have forseen Brown's eventual comeback as the Mayor of Oakland, even less as a serious national political leader.)<br />Ah, presidential politics!  Its amazing, really, to consider some of the men who have, at one time, been spoken of as legitimate presidential contenders just to fade into obscurity when their campaigns fail to live up to expectations.  Does anyone rememeber names like Pete DuPont, Tom Harkin, Ruebin Askew, Milton Shapp, or John Bricker?  None of them are household names but at one time, all of them had a better chance than most to be the most powerful man in the world.  That's why its nice to have books like Aram Bakshian's Candidates 1980 around.  For political junkies, they provide an excuse to wonder what could have been if a just a few people in a few primaries voted differently.<br />It should also be added that Bakshian is a very good, witty writer who never falls victim to the stuffiness that afflicts so many other campaign books.  While non-politically inclined readers will probably have little interest in this book, I think that confessed political junkies like me will find it to be an interesting and amusing artifact.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R1E1F1KXRM7VC2	0345400534	713125021	Inside Oscar, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of my favorite books	For those with a love for both film and trivia, this book is indispensable. Its the definative examination of the annual mixture of the heartwarming and the gauche known as the Academy Awards. Going year-by-year, Wiley and Bona carefully detail what ruled the box office and amazed the critics as well as giving all the gossipy details on the mostly forgotten men and women who were temporarily declared to be Hollywood's &quot;next great star.&quot; Each years ends with a description of that year's academy awards ceremony. Though this might not sound extremely exciting, Bona and Wiley are not shy about injecting their editorial opinions as far as the ceremonies are concerned and several of their sarcastic descriptions of various misbegotten dance numbers and confused presenters, while bordering on being rather snide, are also laugh out loud funny. No matter how savvy and cynical you may consider yourself to be, after reading their behind-the-scenes take on the Oscars, you'll never be able to look at Hollywood the same way as before.<br />As well, Wiley and Bona have compiled perhaps the most accurate and complete listing of Oscar nominees and winners in existence. They even include lists, for each year, of notable films and songs that were passed over. These lists are probably my favorite part of the book, though I do wish they'd include some explanations of why they selected certain films as overlooked. (As just one example, Beyond the Valley of the Dolls placement as an overlooked 1970 best picture possibility, has always perplexed me.)<br />No matter how much you may think you know about film and celebrity trivia, this book will have something to surprise you. This is a book I've never tired of reading because I know with each look, I'll discover something both new and hilarious.<BR>In short, this is my desert island book.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R22V4XSZCI9753	0595006639	811158571	Hitler's Daughter...Wants to Occupy the White House	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Dark, lurid, yet strangely compelling	Hitler's Daughter is one of those pulpy books that many investigate in search for a few trashy distractions or perhaps a good laugh, yet somehow manages to defy all logical expectations by being a worthwhile read.  The book's plot is, more or less, explained by the title.  Hitler's Daughter escapes Nazi Germany and, with a sophisticated cadre of Neo-Nazis aiding her cause, manuevers her way to the White House.  It is up to our band of brave protaganists to identify who, amongst three suspects, is Hitler's Daughter and, even more importantly, stop her evil rise to power.<br />Sounds pretty cut-and-dried, doesn't it?  Yet this book is set apart from others of its genre.  It lingers in the memory.  Benford's characters are largely stereotypes but he still manages to come up with enough individual quirks to set them apart.  Though his prose could charitably be described as &quot;purple,&quot; he still shows tremendous skill when it comes to creating a mood and an atmosphere of paranoia and darkness.  Make no mistake about it.  This is not a light-hearted, frivolous thriller.  The majority of this book is surprisingly dark and, as each of the characters meets his fate its impossible not to feel a certain sadness.  In the end, only the most cold hearted reader couldn't be relieved that this is only fiction.<br />This is the perfect antidote for anyone who has been burned by one too many overly literary works of modern &quot;art.&quot; For anyone who wants to understand how some readers can embrace both Fitzgerald and Spillane, Hitler's Daughter is the book for them.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	RVLE3ROP45K7U	0815769504	374332511	The White House Staff: Inside the West Wing and Beyond	Books	4	34	34	N	Y	A great book for the politically minded	I'd recommend this book to anyone who wants to find out what its really like to serve as a member of the White House staff as opposed to what may be portrayed on television. This book reveals that most staffers are hardly the fast-quipping, terminally righteous characters from The West Wing but are instead human beings attempting, like all of us, to do the best job possible and all the more admirable for it.<br />Anyway, this is one of the most detailed examinations of the Presidential staff that I've ever read. Each chapter is dedicated to a different part of the White House staff and basically gives a detailed job description which makes clear their sometimes murky duties. Even such often-ignored folks like the White House kitchen staff get notice of their own. Overall, one comes away with a real appreciation for the hundreds of individuals who contribute to keeping this country moving forward. Also filled with anecdotes (many of which I hadn't come across before), this book should definitely be of interest to anyone who follows politics.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	RHLBHJR0R7952	0451136349	6908415	The Long Wait	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Another maniacal offering from Mickey Spillane	The Long Wait is not a part of Mickey Spillane's classic and infamous Mike Hammer series.  Instead, its the story of an amnesiac who invades a corrupt small town in order to avenge the death of a friend.  Unsure of who he even is, our &quot;hero&quot; finds himself trapped in a brutal world of violent criminals, evil rich men, and sexy femme fatales -- in short, every classic element of pulp fiction is included in this often ludicrous yet strangely intriguing book.  Obviously, anyone who begins a Spillane novel looking for a cohesive, logical plot is already starting off on the wrong foot.  However, the plot of the Long Wait defies any and all logic even by Spillane's standards.  However, Spillane so credibly creates this absurd world of his that only the most analytical of readers couldn't be swept up into it.  Make no mistake about it, this is not a book written for &quot;our time.&quot;  The violence is brutal, the portrayal of women is defiantly sexist, and we never forget that our hero is really a bit of a jerk.  And, though it might not be fashionable to admit, there's a great release to reading Spillane's delightfully amoral prose.  He might not be describing a life we'd ever chose to live but that doesn't mean his world isn't occasionally fun to visit.<br />Even amongst afficianados of pulp fiction, Mickey Spillane doesn't ever quite seem to get all the credit that's due to him.  Maybe its because, unlike Raymond Chandler, academia has never embraced him.  Unlike Dashiell Hammett, Spillane has never had any pretensions beyond being a pulp writer.  Along with a healthy dose of unfashionable right-wing politics, most of Spillane's books carry an undercurrent of casual sadism.  Whereas most pulp heroes did what they had to do in order to survive in a newly cynical, postwar world, Spillane's heroes always seemed to be violent for the sake of being violent.  Spillane once bragged that he wrote most of his books in two days and never wasted any time with second drafts.  Certainly, the fractured, make-it-up-as-you-go-along-feel to the Long Wait would seem to validate that point.  But for what Spillane sacrifices in craft, he makes up for in just sheer force.  This book is a crazed, maniacal trip into the imagination of a very entertaining madman.  This is a book with absolutely no socially redeeming value and in the end, we're all the better for it.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R2XDYPBXTPWG5	0060965797	212293135	The Godfather Companion: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About All Three Godfather Films	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Shallow but a lot of fun	The Godfather Companion is, more or less, a gossipy fanzine done deluxe. That said, its still full of fun bits of trivia about the Godfather trilogy and should be enjoyed by fans of the films (and really, who hasn't sometimes wished they were a Corleone?) Perhaps my favorite sections are the heavily detailed passages dealing with the other actors considered for the roles made famous by Brando, Pacino, Duvall, et al. Some of the alternative possibilities are nicely intriguing (Martin Sheen would have made an effective Tom Hagen though certainly not one with Duvall's moral shadings) while others simply boggle the mind. (Just imagine, this could have been a film starring Ernest Borgnine, David Carradine, and John Saxon!) Also of interest are the extensive listings of scenes and actors cut from the three films and a helpful Corleone Family Tree in the back of the book. This book doesn't attempt to go into any heavy analysis concerning these films (other then to prove that the Godfather's symbol of evil was, for reasons never really explained, the color oarnge) but its still a lot of fun.	2001-09-19
US	42230879	R94S43H61IFYD	0345439724	684479950	Marathon Man	Books	4	46	52	N	N	A great popcorn thriller	Though he's best known as a screenwriter, William Goldman has also written quite a few novels of note. His best probably remains the thriller Marathon Man. With a nicely complex but hardly difficult plot and amazingly strong characterization from the major players to the minor placeholders, this is a thrilling, at times harrowing book that also manages to provide a great deal of humor and a strong subtext of lost dreams. With his villians, Goldman truly manages to capture the outright banality of some of the world's greatest evil. And as for his hero -- I would defy anyone not to root for poor, awkward Babe Levy from the first minute they meet him. In recent years, its become strangely unfasionable to run the risk of injecting anything resembling humor or humanity into thrillers and instead, those qualities have too often been replaced with meaningless violence and a smirking sadism. Read Marathon Man and see how great a good thriller can truly be.	2001-09-14
US	42230879	R1PQW5XR1UP36G	0679781358	591342650	The Hottest State: A Novel	Books	1	14	25	N	N	No book has ever left me so annoyed	As far as I can tell, the theme of actor Ethan Hawke's first published novel seems to be, &quot;Hi, I'm actor Ethan Hawke.  This is my first published novel.&quot;  The plot of pretentious know-it-all narrator meets and falls for annoying-shallowly-written girl will be familiar to anyone whose ever taken a freshman creative writing course.  At last estimate, there are about 20,000 aspiring writers out there so in all probability, there are indeed worst books than this.  However, most of those books don't get published because most of those authors haven't appeared on the cover of Premiere.  As I read this book, all I could think about were all the aspiring writers out there who don't have the luxury of getting their first drafts published.	2001-09-14
US	42230879	R3157HD9X5O06R	1567310567	694137922	Casino Royale	Books	4	3	5	N	N	First Bond Book -- A Sign of Things to Come	Casino Royale was Ian Fleming's first stab at writing about James Bond and as a result, the book doesn't carry quite the same flair as some of the later books.  In fact, those who know Bond only from the movies will probably be severely disappointed by Fleming's rather subdued novel.  Still, this is a book with much to recommend it, beyond just nostalgia value.  The character of James Bond is actually very intriguing in this book.  Rather than the smirking superhuman that most younger readers like myself have grown up with, we are instead given a rather vulnerable romantic -- cold hearted enough to kill but also capable of falling tragically in love with the enigmatic Vesper Lynd.  As well, this is a Bond who finds himself seriously doubting his commitment to the life of a secret agent and perhaps the book's strongest passages are simply philosophical debates between Bond and a colleague concerning the nature of evil in the post-World War II role.<br />In the end, this book surprised me by turning out to be less as thriller and more of a tragic love story.  The mechanics of Bond's mission and the book's rather forgettable villians take a very definite back seat to Bond's intense infactuation with Vesper and its tragic consequences.  As well, though Fleming's prose is at times awkward, he ends the book with one of the strongest final lines I've ever come across.	2001-09-14
US	42230879	R1CIQEOD8SN592	0743212533	300018757	The Columnist	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sick of pompous "journalists?"  Apparently, you're not alone	For the most part, I grew up and developed my understanding of the world during the '70s and early '80s.  In other words, my youth was spent in the aftermath of Watergate, Abscam, and other scandals that rocked Washington, D.C. and were somberly commented on by sonerous-voiced, grim-faced men who usually seemed to end each report by somehow working in their own close, personal friendship with John and Bobby Kennedy.  This figure, who always seemed to be trying to play Jason Robards playing Ben Bradlee, became one of the most annoying cliches of my youth.  As evidence of media bias became more obvious, these self-important men no longer seemed to be wise, old men [...]  For anyone who agrees with those sentiments, Jeffrey Frank's The Columnist is a must read.<BR><br /><BR>The novel is presented as being the memiors of political columnist Brandon Sladder who takes us through the last fifty years of American history with a remarkable, and sadly quite plausible, vacousness.  The book's humor, which had my laughing out loud through most of the read, comes not from the slight plot but from the way Frank manages to perfectly capture this character in all of his pompous, self-important, and ignorant glory.  In creative writing classes, we are all taught the importance of maintaining a unique \\"voice.\\"  This is one of the best examples of how this can be done while still managing to write an entertaining, readable novel.<BR><br /><BR>For me, a perfect example of the book's subtle and truthful humor comes from Sladder's description of meeting JFK a few weeks before Kennedy's death.  When JFK assures Sladder that he intends to read Sladder's columns as soon as he gets a chance, Sladder solmenly informs us, \\"I never found out if he kept his promise.\\"  Now, too many, that probably doesn't sound like much but to anyone who has read the preening memoirs of actual political columnists will recognize this line as one of the cherished standards of the genre.  Frank's use of it punctures the self-serving arrogance of so many of those columnists.  In short, it says what readers like me have always wanted to say -- \\"Who cares if you knew Kennedy, you irrelavent windbag!?\\"<BR><br /><BR>Anyway, if you got the above joke, this book is definitely for you.  And if you didn't, you probably won't get as much out of it but I'd suggest reading this novel anyway.  Even beyond the political satire beloved by lonely political junkies like myself, this book is very funny.  Its also very short and a quick read.  I read it in about two hours so even if you don't love it as much as I did, at least you won't have to sacrifice a great deal of your time to disagree.	2001-09-13
US	42230879	RMDHNLNXQRGYP	0375411496	989971381	A Few Corrections	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Nice idea, poorly done	There's not really a lot to say about this book other than Leithauser comes up with a really intriguing concept and basically does little of interest with it.<BR><br /><BR>Basically, the book's narrator explains that he is seeking to correct the many errors in the brief obituary of the recently deceased Wesley Sultan.  That's not a bad concept for a book but unfortunately, the discoveries we make about Wesley are, for the most part, banal and painfully predictable.  The narrator's identity is supposed to be something of a mystery so I won't reveal it in this review but I will say that it should be obvious to anyone who makes it beyond the second chapter.<BR><br /><BR>The book's real problem is that it is just painfully dull.  Basically, it consists of our narrator interviewing the people from Wes's past.  All of these people are written to be very flamboyant but instead just comes across as rather &quot;annoying.&quot;  Its as if Leithauser used a random, create-an-interesting-character generator and so, he ended up with familiar figures like the young man with a dark secret, the chatty old woman who goes on about sex (yeah, never seen that before), and of course, the grouchy misanthrope who has a secret heart of gold.  All stereotypes and all presented to the reader as if Leithauser actually believes he's the first person to ever come up with these stock figures.<BR><br /><BR>Leithauser does have style to burn.  He puts his sentences together with undeniable skill.  You want metaphors?  This guy has got a metaphor for everything.  In fact, his writing is so florid and metaphor-driven that it only makes the plot's refusal to be anything other than thoroughly banal all the more annoying.  Its like being forced to listen to the bar know-it-all, so in love with his own vocabulary and so convinced that everything he's saying is a gem of great wit, that eventually any sensible person can't help but yell, &quot;WILL YOU JUST SHUT UP!?&quot;<BR><br /><BR>So, in short, I guess I didn't care too much for this book.	2001-09-13
US	42230879	R2K2UQ9BAENFH1	0553273108	515391319	Favorite Son	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Entertaining trash	I first bought this book back in '87 when I was just fourteen years old and, to be honest, my sole motivation for the purchase came from the pre-publications publicity dealing with the novel's somewhat explicit sex scenes (actually rather tame by today's standards).  I recently sat down and reread the book and discovered that, hidden amongst an overly complex and trashy plot, Favorite Son was actually a moving examination of the loss of innocence in 20th Century America.<br /><BR>The plot deals with the aftermath of the attempted assasination of Sen. Terry Fallon, a charismatic liberal from Texas who becomes an American hero and a potential Vice President.  Unfortunately, Fallon remains a rather flat character.  Luckily, even if Fallon doesn't engage the imagination, Sohmer has created a rogue's gallery of other characters who really stick with you.  To echo many others, aging FBI agent Mancuso is truly one of the most engaging, likeable characters I've come across in a long time.  At the end of the book, I actually did find myself saddened to be parting his company.  As I think someone else said, its a shame Sohmer didn't write more Mancuso novels.	2001-09-07
US	42230879	R1I96T5EFG0ZJQ	0743210824	64180358	Dog Bites Man: City Shocked: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Likeable failure	I was really rooting for this book.  I love political satire and just reading the cover blurb, it sounded as if Duffy's novel might be the new Bonfire of the Vanities.  And he does come up with a plot that has a lot of potential.  The Mayor of New York is attacked by a pit bull.  When his bodyguards kill the dog to protect him, our niave Mayor is thrown into an increasingly ludicrous, painfully plausible political scandal.  <BR><br /><BR>So, what happened?  Duffy isn't a bad writer.  While his prose certainly didn't shine, it didn't put me to sleep either.  Unfortunately, like his Mayor, Duffy is simply too nice.  Instead of following his satire through, he suddenly pulls back during the last quarter of the book.  Suddenly, his characters become achingly noble and start making &quot;profound&quot; statements about the sorry state of modern politics and journalism.  One got the feeling that one day, Duffy looked over what he had previously written and suddenly, for lack of a better term, chickened out.  He had the courage to start to a true satire but apparently, not the guts to finish one.	2001-09-07
US	42230879	R2W0322SRC6ONH	0151225826	773898367	Convention	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of my favorites	This is one of my favorite political books of all time.  Basically, on the eve of the Democratic National Convention, fifty or so delegates agreed to keep in-depth journals that would detail the day-to-day events at New York's Madison Square Garden.  Reeves then used these journals to write this informative, at times very humorous and even poignant, book about the plots and sub-plots that accompanied the 1976 nomination of Jimmy Carter.  <br /> The book details everything from the Carter Campaign's bizarrely paranoid attempt to bug the Convention Hall to the strongarm tactics used by Chairman Robert Struass to control the convention to 18 year-old delegate Clare Smith's valient attempts to track down Hunter S. Thompson.  As well, we read about future Ohio Governor Richard Celeste's endless attempts to promote his own future viability as a presidential candidate and George Wallace's agony at fading into the background.  Perhaps the most amusing sections for me were the ones dealing with joyful convention crashed Joe Kaselask and is attempts to sneak his way onto national television.<BR><br /><BR>At times while reading this book, I had to remind myself that the events detailed within took place a quarter of a century ago.  Many of the most fascinating characters (like Hubert Humphrey, Pat Brown, Mo Udall, and Wallace)are no long with us, while other leading characters (Celeste, Fritz Efaw) have sunk into relative obscurity.  I find myself wondering what happened to some of the non-politicians in the book.  Has Clare Smith ever attended another Democratic Convention?  Did Joe Kaselask go onto crash the 1980 Convention?  <BR><br /><BR>Another added pleasure came from occasionally running across minor characters who would later go on to achieve a prominence apart from their actions at the '76 Convention.  A good example of this would be wheelchair-bound, anti-war activist Ron Kovic, later to become better known as Tom Cruise but here presented as somewhat of a blowhard.Even a pre-anchorman Tom Brokaw shows up, long enough to get into a brawl while yelling at his antagonist, &quot;I won't forget you, creep!&quot;  <BR><br /><BR>Appropriately enough, the only character who seems to have been exactly the same in '76 as he is now would have to be then-Governor, now-Mayor Jerry Brown.  Brown, with his enigmatic presence and refusal to take anything at the convetion too seriously, actually emerges as one of the few pure characters in the book.  In fact, Brown turns out to be more Carter-like than Jimmy Carter himself.<BR><br /><BR>In the end, imagine Robert Altman directing a political convention and that's what you have with Richard Reeves' wonderful book.  Its non-fiction that reads like a brilliantly satirical novel.  Last time I looked, there were 27 used copies of this book available so take a chance and order one.  You won't be sorry.	2001-09-07
US	42230879	R2QLOTBE3MXJ1B	0679748547	358174141	The Campaign of the Century: Upton Sinclair's Race for Governor of California and the Birth of Media Politics	Books	3	9	15	N	N	One-sided but still a fascinating read for the open minded	In 1934, veteran muckraker and socialist Upton Sinclair managed to win the Democratic nomination to run for Governor of California.  Running on a blatantly Marxist platform, Sinclair through a scare into the rich and powerful of America who, in the view of this book's author, united together to unfairly slander Sinclair and rob him of victory.  Campaign of the Century provides a heavily detailed, anecdote-filled accounts of the campaign and manages to weave in a fascinating social history featuring the most revered figures of recent American history.  Over the course of the campaign we get fascinating portraits of Will Rogers, Aimee Semple MacPhearson, Louis B. Mayer, and Franklin D. Roosevelt amongst others.<BR><br /><BR>The book's main flaw is the idealization of Sinclair.  While Marshall is honest enough to admit that the man could be a flake, his platform is never really examined in any great detail.  Nor does Marshall give any real evidence as to why Sinclair would have been a better governor than his opponent or even why he seems so convinced Sinclair would have won if not for the convenient boogeyman of Big Business.  Instead, Marshall seems to simply assume that all readers will naturally agree that Sinclair was an angel and anyone opposed to him was the devil.  <BR><br /><BR>This being said, this is still a wonderful social and political history of the not-so-distant past.  It should definitely be read by anyone who considers himself to be a political junkie or is just interested in history.  Just remember to keep an open mind and not always automatically believe everything you read.	2001-09-07
US	42230879	R38D36M8695H26	0385054025	302999749	O Congress	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Self-serving but a must for the politically minded	Since he retired from the U.S. Senate in 1994, Donald Riegle's name hasn't been in the news. However, those who follow recent political trivia, will probably recognize him as the young, liberal Republican elected to the U.S. House in the late sixties who then went on to make a name for himself by opposing Nixon's '72 reelection bid and the Viet Nam War. Riegle, however, was mostly notorious for his own open presidential ambitions. Riegle eventually switched to the Democratic Party and ran for the U.S. Senate just to see transcripts of private conversations between himself and a mistress reprinted in several newspapers (shades of Bill Clinton and Gennifer Flowers). Riegle later got into more serious trouble as a member of the Keating Five. <br />Anyway, 0 Congress is basically Riegle's diary from 1971 and gives a nicely humorous (if at times, a tad smug) overview of a year in the life of the Congressman. A good deal of the book deals with Rep. Pete McClosky's unsuccesful primary campaign against Nixon and, to the best of my knowledge, remains the only detailed account of that well-meaning but ultimately futile crusade. However, the book is mostly interesting for its gossipy portraits of other prominent congressmen in the early '70s, all of whom Riegle takes an obvious delight in skewering. <br />Of course, Riegle also makes it clear that no matter how foolish his colleagues may appear, he is nothing less than the messiah returned as a congressman. Certainly, the self-portrait he paints in this book is of a man who would never cheat on his wife or, more importantly, accept illegal campaign contributions from a corrupt S&amp;L kingpin. In the end, this book is amusing for both its insights and its delusions.	2001-09-05
US	42230879	R1P9SKJU8A1L8T	0892450061	842057169	Jimmy Carter, Jimmy Carter	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Hilarious!	Wow, everyone sure seems to love ol' Jimmy Carter right about now!  Kinda makes you wonder why we ever voted the grinnin' Ghandi out of office.  Well, no, not really.  Not if you're unlucky enough to still be cursed with memories of what it was actually like when Jimmy Carter was President.  Anyway, for those of us still suffering malaise-inspired nightmares, Gary Allen's acidic (and, unlike Carter's writing, short-and-to-the-point) 1976 &quot;biography&quot; is a wonderful antidote.  Inside, you will find the details of Carter's life before he was a virgin.  Allen writes with a venemous wit and there's something delightfully cathartic in reading his sarcastic take on our 39th President, especially with all the recent talk of Carter being our greatest ex-President.  (Though this is perhaps true if you consider Carter's greatest act within the White House was to eventually leave it...)	2001-09-05
US	42230879	R2VXYSSMC6J55P	0892450010	886976254	The Rockefeller File	Books	3	34	43	N	N	One of the better of its type	<br />... Gary Allen was one of the better writers working in the genre of the paranoid and, even if his conclusions don't always hold up, one can't deny that he does a very good job of compiling and presenting his evidence. While The Rockefeller File doesn't quite match up to Allen's classic None Dare Call It Conspiracy, its a compelling presentation of a world view that many dismiss with ridicule without really giving it fair consideration beforehand.<br /><BR>This book I would recommend to anyone who is truly curious about the ideas behind the theories of those who the media dismisses as \\"anti-government extremists.\\" Whether you agree with them or not, its hard to deny that they're a group who are often held up as easy targets by liberals. They're the scapegoats of modern America and deserve at least a chance to state their views without being shouted down in fits of moral indignation. The Rockefeller File presents one of their better cases. Read this book, consider the evidence and conclusions within, and then decide for yourself. Either disagree like me or agree like thousands of others, but at least give them a fair hearing.	2001-09-05
US	42230879	R2FFVQ02C62AU5	0671019236	676697057	Spin	Books	3	0	1	N	Y	Is there anyone more boring than a saint?	...Lowe does manage to capture something here that very few \\"political\\" writers have been able to duplicate.  If you're a political junkie like me (and it probably helps to be a Libertarian Republican as well), its hard not to relate to the novel's pure joy in the sleazy tactics used to win the political games.  As one reviewer pointed out, Lowe gives us a portrait of hustlers and hypocrites, all out to advance their own careers at the expense of the common voter.  And it is indeed true, Lowe wastes little time with remorse.  However, as opposed to that previous reviewer, I have to say that there was something joyfully intoxicating about Lowe's lack of guilt.  Aren't we all a little sick of guilt and earnest idealism by now?  Is there anyone more boring than a saint?  Luckily, Lowe doesn't give us a saint and that's the saving grace of his first novel.	2001-09-01
