US	42310170	R2CJT5MADQA9YW	0140447180	126824467	The Autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Intimate portrait of the Renaissance	There are few books about the renaissance that are as entertaining and rewarding as this autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini, one of the most celebrated glodsmiths and artists of that time. The book is candid and can also serve as a tour guide of Florence for the more adventurous. Certainly I would recommnend reading it if you're thinking of visiting. Cellini describes other artsist of the time, famous spats between artists and between artists and their masters. despite the genius of the man, Cellini's book is more interetsing as a first hand docuemnt of what it was like to live in that time. One gets the imperssion of the sort of education parents siught for their children. Cellini describes this without holding back contempt, we also learn of his musical talents and his childhood. Cellini vividly describes his father beating him on the ears in order to leave the lasting impression of the wonderous sight of a salamander in the fireplace. the heart of the book is set in Rome, where he meets the Pope and is then imprisoned in the Fortress of castel Sant'Angelo - the very same made famous by Puccini's Tosca. Unlike the Puccinian Cavardossi, cellini is bale to escape thanks to the clich&eacute; use of bed linens. But remember this is not fiction. I would also suggest to thos interested in this book looking for Anatnio Vasari's &quot;Lives of the Artists&quot;, Giovanni della Casa's &quot;Il Galateo&quot; and of course &quot;The Prince&quot; by Macchiavelli. Other renaissance accounts were written by Gucciardini and the Bolognese Paolo Giovio. As a final note I read the original Italian and parts of the English translation featured here. The Tranbslation was very good.	2004-02-10
US	42310170	R1ZPPJEHB2GRH2	0253212820	628228935	Area Studies and Social Science: Strategies for Understanding Middle East Politics (Indiana Series in Middle East Studies)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Looking for balance between social science and area studies	The longstanding debate in the study of Middle East politics Area Studies and Social Science has divided schorlas in two general camps. Thos upporting the political economy approach (and its variations, i.e. State focused studies) such as James Waterbury, Roger Owens or Nazih Ayubi to mention some and those preferring a more cultural approach based on modernization theory typified by Bernard Lewis. This book edited by Mark Tessler aims to draw from the various approaches to establish a balanced view which combines the more scientific 'methods' of describing the Middle East through social science with the historical and local specificity of area studies. Tessler's aim is to sgow that neother approach works well in isolation and that, indeed, a combination of these two provides the most effective framework to the study of the Middle East. The one discipline adding the necessary context to the other's discipline.<br />The book features a collection of essays by noted scholars such as Lisa Anderson, Clement Henry and August Richard Norton (among others) which are invaluable to the specialist as well as those who have had less exposure to the debate. I especially enjoyed Lisa Anderson's essay in which she acknowledges some of the shortcomings of area studies and the need to combine more social science perspectives in the discipline. Nervetheless, the other essays are just as important and valuable.	2004-02-09
US	42310170	R285TOF8I33ON6	0674291417	741147063	The Failure of Political Islam	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Resisting the idea of the clash of civilizations	This is an easy to read book that contains interesting ideas about the role of political islamic movements. However it puts advances different notions than most books on the subject that ahve been published in the aftermath (and before, if we think of Huntington). This book suggests that Islam is not necessarily heading for a major confrontation or clash with the West. Some have suggested and criticized that the WTC attack proves otherwise; however, the the full story on that event and its aftermath have yet to be written and despite its horror, the evnt has worked far more in favoring an attack from the West to Islam than the other way around.<br />Olivier Roy, in the tendency of another French scholar Gilles Kepel, challenges the clash of civilizations concept and suggests that Political islam has failed because it has proven itself incapable of bringing about desirable changes in the poltical and socio-economic spheres in the Islamic world. Indeed, the very fact it has to resort to violent means (after the many years that muslim politics have existed in one form or another) is a sign of its failure to make attract sufficient followers. More significantly, Roy points out the various divisions theological and sectarian (eg. Shi'a vs. Sunni)national that have impeded the succesful formation of a universal and monolythic Islam capable of challenging the supposed antagonistic civilization of the West. he provides examples from all over the Islamic World including Algeria, Afghanistan and Iran. Some of the comments made by the more critical reviewers here are also worth noting, notwithstanding the fact this booo remians an importnat book, perhaps more so today than at the time it was written.	2004-02-09
US	42310170	R3J63GCYYA61EB	0520239342	837055044	Muslim Extremism in Egypt: The Prophet and Pharaoh, With a New Preface for 2003	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A clear and sensible description of the Muslim Brotherhood	This is without a doubt one of the best and most readable texts on the subject of the rise of Islamist movements in Egypt. It also works as a fitting sequel to Doanld Mitchell's groundbreaking volume - the only one of its kind ever translated into Arabic - on the Ikhwan al-Muslimin, the Muslim Brotherhood written almost two decades earlier. The book describes the social, historical and economic context behind the Islamist movements neither resorting to apologetic arguments or righteous accusations. Kepel shows that Egyptian Islamist organizations have adopted a variety of approaches that are, more often than not, peaceful such as to effectively constitute what may be civil society in Egypt. Indeed, such organizations as the Islamic Brotherhood in Egypt have recently shown that some compromise is possible with the representatives of the status-quo as well as with rival factions by participating in national elections, such as to avoid a civil war scenario. The Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt now opposes government policy from a legal and regulated official position but it faces pressure from more radical Islamist groups.<br />Nonetheless, intractable socio-economic problems have made it ever more difficult to contain unrest. The continuing reduction of the public sector since the late '70s and the failure to stimulate private economic enterprise has made it even harder for Egypt to sustain the precarious economic conditions that stimulate Islamist unrest.  Although the Egypt achieved significant development in the '50s and '60s, it has pursued misguided economic policies that have fallen short of their potential. The benefits of the oil boom after 1973 and the Sadat-Mubarak economic liberalization policies that followed were mismanaged. Economic liberalization was primarily directed in the speculative construction and real estate sectors and failed to attract foreign investment in other labor intensive and professional areas. Unemployment persisted as the State reduced spending in conformance to IMF debt re-structuring that by 1986 brought about a gradual erosion of the human development achievements of the '50s and '70s. The series of economic reforms benefited the already wealthy.  Islamist organizations have also gained popularity by absorbing the void left by the declining State.<br />Support and membership for such organizations has cut across class and income barriers and is representative of the frustration of a large portion of society, and youth in particular, with the current political establishment in Egypt. The government has not offered viable solutions to problems of unemployment, housing shortages, deteriorating municipal services or the poor quality of health care and education. Kepel also shows that Islamist organizations have solved problems that the government has been unable or unwilling to confront. Unlike government and private banks, the Islamic Brotherhood has operated Islamic Investment Companies (IIC) since the mid-'70s that have provided a real positive rate of interest.  Ultimately, in view of chronic economic difficulties and the Government of Egypt's inability to adopt serious reform and tackle the problems of poverty and unemployment seriously makes Egypt very vulnerable to the zeal and violence of militant Islam.nding in conformance to IMF debt re-structuring that by 1986 brought about a gradual erosion of the human development achievements of the '50s and '70s. The series of economic reforms benefited the already wealthy.  Islamist organizations have also gained popularity by absorbing the void left by the declining State.<BR>Support and membership for such organizations has cut across class and income barriers and is representative of the frustration of a large portion of society, and youth in particular, with the current political establishment in Egypt. The government has not offered viable solutions to problems of unemployment, housing shortages, deteriorating municipal services or the poor quality of health care and education. Kepel also shows that Islamist organizations have solved problems that the government has been unable or unwilling to confront. Unlike government and private banks, the Islamic Brotherhood has operated Islamic Investment Companies (IIC) since the mid-'70s that have provided a real positive rate of interest.  Ultimately, in view of chronic economic difficulties and the Government of Egypt's inability to adopt serious reform and tackle the problems of poverty and unemployment seriously makes Egypt very vulnerable to the zeal and violence of militant Islam.	2004-02-06
US	42310170	R3OVRNEA66FX6Y	006093137X	920633951	Turbo-Capitalism: Winners and Losers in the Global Economy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Insightful and very readable analysis of the new capitalism	Unlike some other reviewers, I find that Edward Luttwak's analysis of the new capitalism, or what he calls Turbo capitalism, was very well considered and presented. Luttwak knows europe very well, as he lives and teaches in Italy and speaks a number of languages fluently. The book is not a condmenation o cpaitalism; rather it shows how from the late seventies and after the fall of Soviet communism the Keynesian economic system that had been devised to produce a compromise between the aspirations of socialism and the practical realities of capitalism, which existed in much of the Western world has been dismantled. He notes that in order to reduce the appeal of socialism, which was gaining ground throughout Europe prior to the rise of fascism and after the Second World War, Western governments were almost forced into satisfying vast numbers of their populations by institutionalizing such benefits as free medical service and schooling. the equalizing policies help to soften demands for outright socilaism while allowing free enterprise to grow - albeit with some regulation. Luttwak then terms 'turbo capitalism' that transformation, which took place after the fall of the Berlin wall, characterized by the de-regualtion of free enterprise and the simultaneous retraction of the social welfare mechanisms that had been established in the post-war period.<br /> Luttwak also looks at how certain market inefficiencies, like having too many employees, family businesses and fewer working hours actually helped make the 'capitalist' system more sustainable for the vast majority - or for what used to be the middle class until a decade ago. Turbo capitalism has accelerated and accentuated class divides, reducing the influence and size of the middle class. There are some cultural anecdotes involving work hours and differences in public morality between the United States and Europe mentioned here and there and they add an amusing effect. i found little to object in what he noted, as he remained fair and relevant. Overall this is an excellent book, which provides a great deal of insight into an the socio-economic processes that affecting the modern society.mained fair and relevant. Overall this is an excellent book, which provides a great deal of insight into an the socio-economic processes that affecting the modern society.	2004-02-04
US	42310170	R1BR4RBPQB6TYB	0385495048	65095566	One Market Under God: Extreme Capitalism, Market Populism, and the End of Economic Democracy	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Bursting the bubble	Thomas Frank's One Market Under God is an important book and offers interesting insights into the stock market hysteria of the nineties while capturing the sense of delusion of those who remained bewildered in the economic sidelines.  Frank academically dissects the New Economy and reveals its emptiness. It's a sort of \\"Extraordinary delusions and the Madness of Crowds\\" of the modern age. While Frank's style may be pedantic at times, he reveals a pungent and welcome sarcasm that we'll have you laughing in revenge at all the hype of the market and its instruments form `lifestyle' magazines to over-produced television commercials. One of his biggest and most effective targets is the magazine \\"Fast Company\\". The main argument of the book is that in the nineties the public at large has been convinced that markets were the ideal solution to all ills, social and economic. This occurred to such a degree that the market champions became popular heroes, while the snobs were those who criticized or were skeptical of the market's all-powerful mantra. Frank presents the media and corporate manufacture of the rhetoric and - let's say it `frankly' propaganda'- that fueled the market bubble and myth as the Keynesian economic system was rapidly being dismantled under our noses. I recommend reading this entertaining as well as thorough analysis with another fascinating look at the emergence of market economics dominance, \\"Turbo Capitaliosm\\" by Edward Luttwak and \\"Globalization and its Discontents\\" by Jospeh Stiglitz - ironically one of Bill Clinton's top economic advisers. Also look for Thomas Frank's articles in the magazine he edits &quot;The Baffler&quot;.	2004-02-03
US	42310170	R2PKUPEH6QE2I7	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Of Cows and Men	I read this book almost two years ago, but did not decide to review it until now. Many have already contributed eloquent reviews of the book and I felt there was little to add. However, the recent rise of mad cow reports and beef import fears and restrictions brought this book to mind again because of the warnings it issues about the beef industry. This book has once agin proven its value, it is fascinating and I cannot stress enough, to parents or anyone interested in a healthy diet the importance of this book. However, Schlosser discusses the socio-economic repercussions of the rise of fast food, and this is where the book really shines; in particular I found the chapters dealing with the beef industry, the extended hours and dangerous conditions, which lead to injuries on the job for the workers and nasty nutritional surprises for the eaters - anyone remember Jack in the Box? Schlosser also shows how the success of fast food purveryors has affected the quality and 'veracity' of much of the food all of us eat, fast or otherwise. The conglomerates dictate the terms by which the meat is selected and processed, even including dictating terms to potato growers. There are also interesting considerations about the working conditions and safety and viability - from all points of view - of fast food chains and franchises. Nevertheless, Schlosser does not advocate that everyone become a vegetarian necessarily - he is by admission not one. He admits to enjoying a good burger every once in a while, but the keyword is 'good', meaning paying a little bit more for high quality beef, whose source is well known. Ultimately the nutritional recommendation from this book is that you should it organic meat products.<br />The book also presents a brief history of the fast food industry from its origins just before the second world war in California to the multi-million dollar global business it's become today. I suggest reading this book along with the biography of Sam Walton, founder of Wal-Mart \\"In Sam We Trust\\" and Naomi Klein's \\"No Logo\\". Together these books present an interesting picture of big business conglomerates, their practices and how these relate to the resentment of 'globalization' around the world.of Wal-Mart \\"In Sam We Trust\\" and Naomi Klein's \\"No Logo\\". Together these books present an interesting picture of big business conglomerates, their practices and how these relate to the resentment of 'globalization' around the world.	2004-02-02
US	42310170	RSPKZAIW9GZNI	0802082785	648039599	Organized Crime and American Power: A History	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Gangs of America	This is a very insightful book that presents the historical and social factors that have contributed to the rise of organized crime in the United States. It is unfortunate that the book was published in Canada and written by a British author; however, it shows the extent of the controversy surrounding this subject. This book reveals that more than ethnic based 'imported'' criminal organizations, what has passed off for organized crime or 'mafia' in The United States is a phenomenon, which was related to and often encouraged, directly and indirectly, by the very government form exploitation of natives, Africans and working peoples in general. More significantly, the prohibitions that pandered to the 'puritanical' element in society such as the prohibition of alcohol in the 1920's and the current 'war on drugs' have actually encouraged criminal behavior. The criminal element is then succeded by a network of official corruption and so called regulation, which leads to the creation of so called legitimate businesses. Woodiwiss also shows that the very criminal justice system was set up to punish certain criomes more vehemently than others. There are interesting examples, which he brings up from the New York Triangle fire that then led to the honoring of Woman's Day to the Sacco and Vanzetti case. It is not an easy book to read, in that the style is academic and at times very detailed. This is not meant to be an entertaining account; however, it gives an unprecedented analysis of organized crime starting form the pre-Civil War period and covers all kinds of corruption. I would not be surprised if Martin Scorsese read this book while making his film &quot;Gangs of New York&quot;, as when I saw that film this acadmic and dry but valuable book came to life. I would also reccomend reading Eric Schlosser's &quot;fast Food Nation&quot; and &quot;Reefer Madness&quot; as they are excellent complementary - and more entertaining - volumes to this text.	2004-02-02
US	42310170	R2SY1HBJ6O3KSP	1851682341	333183960	The Mantle of the Prophet: Religion and Politics in Iran	Books	5	37	39	N	N	A book that left a lasting impression	I read The Mantle of the Prophet many years ago. OSmehow the Amazaon computer knew me well enough to reccomend it, and it brought back the impression that this book left me. It is wonderfully written and relates the mix of socio-economic events and the Shi'a culture that coalesced to foment the Islamic Revolution in 1979. However, the sense the reder gets while rapidly going through it, is that the book presents this very thoughtful and clear historical and sociological argument in the manner of a novel, you can't put the book down. This no ordinary academic text and Mottahedeh combines the skills and art of the poet and novelist with the clarity and facts of an academic. I have never read such an interesting and clear - devoid of controversy or criticism - description of what's it like to study in a Shi&aacute; Madrasa, to undertand the curriculum and the stages that a student must follow to become an Ayatoallah. Mottahedeh also offers a simple and brilliant, powerful description of the cultural contrast that existed between the supericially modern and wealthy cosmopolitan Teheran and the countryside, which supplied so many of the clerics that influenced the masses living on the fringe. This book is as invaluable to the specialist, and is an excellent complement to the socio-hiostorical classic text by Ervand Abrahamian \\"Iran Bewteen two Revolutions\\", yet it can also be read and enjoyed by the non-specialist just the same. This was, however I look at it, one of the finest books I've ever read in my life	2004-01-27
US	42310170	R1WNEEJS5ZTO1X	1560254777	362804813	Iraq: In the Eye of the Storm	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Storm could - and should - have been prevented	Dilip Hiro has been following events in Iraq for a long time, and has written numerous volumes on the subject including what might the most comprehensive volume on the history of the Iran - Iraq war. It is important to note this, not only because this author deserves praise, but because it gives him authority in evaluting the circumstances that might or might not have warranted military intervention in Iraq in 2003. It is very clear that Hiro believes that the War in Iraq should have remained an unthinkable prospect, the sanctions had more than demoralized and eroded the potential educated middle classes that could have eventually supplied a new regime in Iraq. Meanwhile, the very same sanctions only strengthened the regime of Saddam Hussein, by making it more invaluable to the everyday survival of ordinary Iraqis who were dependent on it to guarantee the measn of everyday survival. I found this point to be especially importnat, as I lived in Libya at the height of the UN and International Sanctions and fully agree that in dictatorial regimes, the small ruling elite benefits while ordinary people that have done absolutely nothing to earn their country a pariah reputation suffer. Although the war has begun (and prematurely declared won) - who knows when and how it will really end - the book is still important to read. It's short and informative and worth well beyond the current price. As Dilip Hiro admits, the book is not meant to be a comprehesive history of modern Iraq; indeed, it is more a history of Iraq from the 1990-91 Gulf War and the unstable period of the sanctions. For those readers that would like to understand the circumstances and processes that led to the emergence of the Ba&aacute;th party in Iraq and Saddam Hussein I recommed \\"Iraq since 1958\\" by Peter and Marion-Farouk Sluglett.	2004-01-26
US	42310170	R12R9J3Q06TVXY	0253208734	950822965	A History of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict (Indiana Series in Arab and Islamic Studies)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Introduction to the problems	if you have the time, you can do worse than to read this valuable volume on the history of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The book looks at the rise of nationalism among both peoples, the Palestinians developing their identity forst as Arabs during the 19th century and under Ottoman occupation and the Israelis as an extension of euroepan nationalism and their initial attempts at assimilation. In fact, I found the description of the rise of Zionism to be one of the most fascinating aspects of the book. This book works very well, therefore, in explaining the background of the conflict presenting all sides. I could not really detect a bias, as I could certainly find plenty of arguments taht selectively and logically assembled could be used to support either side. Moral considerations of justice are excluded, and individual readers wilkl necessarily have to fit those in. I therefore recommend reading this volume before approaching the more slanted ones. I certainly know where I stand on the issue, but I understand the other side more and that can't hurt when I argue in favor of Palestinian self determination.	2004-01-26
US	42310170	RSR4OJFXYI0RB	0224059866	371528669	Enzo Ferrari : A Life	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Not just for Ferrari Fans (like me)	This is a very well written and entertaining biography of ENZO FERRARI, who depsite the worlwide recognition of the name was never truly known outside Italy. he was as Williams, reveals a very reserved man who suffered a lot in his personal life even while builiding a company that became a legend in its own time producing cars that were - and are - works of art as well as marvels of technology. Williams traces ferrari's life form the days of his youth, his admiration for the Italian World War 1 pilot and ace Francesco Baracca form whom he borrowed the prancing horse symbol that graces his cars. ferrari became a racing driver and had some success with ALfa Romeo, until he was beaten by one of the greatest driving legends of all time, Tazio Nuvolari. Ferrari then went on to build a racing team based on Alfa Romeo cars and eventually in 1947 started to build his legendary cars.I have read many works on Ferrari cars, this book by Williams discusse the man more and his admiration and respect are evident. Perhaps more charming - at least for me - is his evident love of Italy and Itlians, and there are few products as philosophically Italian as Ferraris )or the ALfa Romeos that inspired them). Thereofer I recommend this book to those interested in intersting lives and in Italy in general.	2004-01-24
US	42310170	RRZTUWFQ375EA	0375421068	725554985	Parallels and Paradoxes: Explorations in Music and Society	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The meaning and value of music	I was very excited to read a book written by one of my favorite 20th century intellectuals and one of my favorite pianists. This is not a musicology text; it is perhaps, something more valuable than that. Edward Said, who died recently, was a pianist himself; this fact combined with his explorations into the meaning of democracy and social culture made reading this book a very interesting proposition alone. The book did not disappoint and offered many surprises both in terms of exploring what classical music can offer to contemporary culture and what music - especially Beethoven's music - means in political terms. The book is organized as a series of conversations in which Baremboim and Said discuss topics that include the apparent detachment that classical music has today from the rest of culture as opposed to the time when an understanding and admiration for it was deemed indispensable for the educated and higher classes. However, what makes the book a pleasure to read is one one level Said and Baremboim clealry love music passionatley, on the other Baremboim is an Israeli citizen, who was the first to perform in the occupied Territories with a palestinian orchestra and also sponsored a Palestinian orchestra to play inn Germany. Edward Said was an intellaetcual that argued passionatley for the Palestinian cause. Their firendship and coomon interest in music offers an undeniable sense of hope for those of us, like myself, who are troubled by the ongiong Arab-Israeli conflict that appears to worsen ebery day. That this hope should be nunaced and coloured with the music of Beethoven seems to be not only fascinating and beautiful, but a tribute to a composer who saw and used music to shake the world and argue for freedom. In so doing baremboim and Said discuss the possibility that music can serve as a model or for undertsanding between peoples and global citizenship. They are both idealists in this sense, but their vision makes beautiful sense nonetheless.	2004-01-24
US	42310170	REA0OEWV7FRJ	0879500034	718289288	Arabic-English Dictionary: The Hans Wehr Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic (English and Arabic Edition)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	For the beginner and the expert	I've used many Arabic - English dictionaries and none were ever able to match the quality of the Hans Wehr, which was my first. My searches for other dictionaries were prompted by laziness, I wanted less and not more definitions, which can complicate matetrs when you're just staring to learn a language as complicated as Arabic. Moreover, the dictionary is arranged according to root, so it requires a good understanding of how to derive roots form words - Muhammad, for instance, is under H not M as the root is HMD.Once you have grasped this concept, so target your early lessons to that end you will enjoy the Hans Wehr and use it anytime you want to trasnalte written text from Arabic to English. I stress the 'written' part, as this dictionary is not very useful in conversations and does not intend to be. So if communicating in the Suq of Amman or the bazaar in Damascus is what you want, I would recommend anything but Hans Wehr. If you want to read \\"Al-AHram\\" on ther other hand, this is the dictionary for you	2004-01-24
US	42310170	R3ECGOWK6TR6S9	0385721862	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Amy Chua may be right	This has turned out to be one of the most interetsing books I've read all year, I simply could not put it down as I found Chua's arguments very compelling. Although I don't believe that problems are rarely uni-dimensional (of course I realize that Chua doesn't either) I think that the book's argument that globalization in the developing world has been skewed in favor of already economically dominant ethinic minorities is one of the best arguments ever proferred to explain the worldwide resentment of the current approach to 'globalization'. I've witnessed some of the examples she cites first hand as I've been to Indonesia and observed much of what she describes about the Chinese leadership in business and the corresponding resentment of the Muslim majority. Her examples deal mostly with the Jakarta area and Kalimantan, but she may rest assured that the phenomenon is very visible in Bali and even less populated islands such as Lombok - where it is uncanny how every worldwide chain (McDonald's - KFc, etc.) fast food restaurant is owned by Chinese businessmen. Her theory also works very well for the many South and Latin American examples, and while she describes Bolivia at length her observations might easily  - and perhaps even more dramatically - made about neighboring Per&ugrave;. It may even be said, to her credit that Chua predicted the ousting of President Gonzalo S&aacute;nchez de Loazada in October 2003 in this book as she mentions the correlation between globalization - of which exports of privatized national gas and oil are a part - and public resentment in Bolivia. If I have any criticisms, and they're mild and certainly do nopt detract form what the reader gains in terms of understanding, they have to do with the sometimes excessively 'personal' accounts of students or friends. Evenb these, however, eventually serve their purpose in supporting theauthor's argument. Overall, this is one of the finest books on globalization available today and Amy Chua's arguments are worthy of consideration and further investigation by more specialized scholars and, hopefully, by Chua herself in a follow-up volume..?y of consideration and further investigation by more specialized scholars and, hopefully, by Chua herself in a follow-up volume..?	2004-01-20
US	42310170	R2AS6VO658NEL7	0393058360	665022244	Fear's Empire: War, Terrorism, and Democracy in the Age of Independence	Books	5	38	40	N	N	The right prescription	This book was welcome follow-up to Benjamin Barber's famous book Jihad vs. McWorld and in it he expands on the themes of already established in that book. In many ways the first book foretold the present foreign policy challenges faced by the 'North'and the 'Sout'h'. However, unlike harsher dialectics proposed by Samuel Huntington and more recently Richard perle in his draconian solution to world problems featured in the lamentable but unequivocably harsh \\"An End To Evil\\", Barber does not speak in terms of black or white. His approach is well reasoned, and differs in tone even from other alternative, or so called 'liberal' texts that criticize America's current foreign policy approach. Barber writes with reason and suggests that rather than exporting democracy and markets, the more priviliged world under America's leadership should be engaged in the building of citizens and civil society first, for it is on that basis that lasting democracies are built.  I found the book became more interesting and engaging in the second half where the argument against the idea of a preventive war, turns into an argument against the &eacute;xport'of democracy for the creation of the right structures and circumstances that help to build and sustain democracy in the developing world. This is an important work that should be read by all those who wish to understand  - reasonably and without hyperbole - the dangers of America's current foreign policy	2004-01-14
US	42310170	R3R6XAQCRJMFED	0847824829	566747544	Hidden Naples and the Amalfi Coast	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Discover the simply spectacular beauty of Napoli	This is a beautiful photographic essay of one of the ost beautiful - and underrated - cities in Italy. It's not very long, as the book covers a mere fraction of the wonders of Naples (the ancient Neapolis and Partenope dedicated to Athena by the Gods and older than Rome and its surrounding coast) but the subjects that the authors have chosen are worthy to be featured in such a book. In fact I appreciated the absence of clich&eacute; images and views giving an added originality to the treatment. As a final note, I was simply happy to see a book finally featuring anything other than Tuscany and Florence, which have become almost separate entities from the rest of Italy in many foreign travelers' eyes, as if they wanted to take it away and make it their own....isn't that right Ms. Frances Mayes...?	2004-01-10
US	42310170	RZAFG6F7OXSLP	0195168941	774964038	Armageddon Averted: The Soviet Collapse, 1970-2000	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An interesting and succint analysis of complex issues	I had just returned from a trip to Russia when I came across this little book purporting to explain the reasons for the collapse of the Soviet Union. I've read other works on russian and Soviet history, but have never come across such a clear presentation of the issues to consider. Other reviewers have suggested that there's too much political bias in the account and that it's boring. I did not find this at all (especially the boring part), and I've always had a sympathy for the Left. Indeed, when I was in Russia and witnessed first hand the impressive and awe-inspiring achievements of Soviet and Czarist Russia (as well as some of the more horrific ones) I asked people to explain to me what caused the collapse of the Soviet Union, an idealist experiment that went wrong disappointing so many who hoped for a better system. You cannot help but ask these questions as you see the unbelievable luxury and wealth  in Moscow and parts of St. Petersburg with the obvious poverty that co-exists with it. Yet, as the notes of the soviet anthem so poignantly reflect, The Soviet Union was supposed to herald a new era in human relations. Of course, reality has a way of breaking dreams and I believe that Stephen Kotkin has captured the illusion and its collapse, outlining the reasons and the effcts with unprecedented clarity. perhaps, more than this, Kotkin offers a model for analyzing the problems faced by all regimes as they attempt a reform from within and is a very effective text to understand politics in much of the developing world and I found personally usful in studying such regimes as  Egypt under Sadat and Mubarak, Qadhafi's in Libya, or Asad of Syria. It's definitely a short book that travels very far.	2004-01-10
US	42310170	R38AN205VP38A5	0486419568	715011557	The Crowd: A Study of the Popular Mind	Books	5	73	83	N	N	More insightful than Macchiavelli	This is a short book whose pages have a far greater impact than the title might suggest. As many reviewers have already noted, the book simply explains the mechanisms that guide the popualr imagination and outlines the simple principles that enable the few who grasp them to hold control over vast populations. What struck me particulalry was how the recipes for power suggested by Gustave Le Bon are reflected in contemporary neo-liberal economic and socio-cultural agendas. Those who are involved in developing education policies will find the book especially useful. Writing over a century ago,Le Bon criticized the liberal education system and advocated the more common sense practical type of learning that neo-liberal agendas have been pushing for since the late 70's. It also makes a strong case for the impact of simple messages over crowds. Common sense arguments, logic and thoughtful concerns, LE Bon argues, are lost on the masses. Indeed, it is widely believed that this was one of Benito Mussolini's favorite books. We are living ever more in an era of simplistic thinking. By reading this book you will understand how this has occurred and how demagogues rise to power. As with another reviewer, I also stay away from crowds. This book unraveled the unconscious instincts that always make me avoid crowds and anything that is too popular.	2004-01-09
US	42310170	R2608C31KEMEX8	1400061946	899669555	An End to Evil: How to Win the War on Terror	Books	3	13	37	N	N	Looney 'Tunes'	I am rather conflicted about rating this book. I would love to give it a 0 stars - or one star for effort; however, I purchased (rather hypocritically I should add) the book knowing very well what to expect ..., this is an extremely useful book in understanding the current thinking at the White House, so much so it may serve as the best tool for Democrats to use against Pres. Bush in the forthcoming election. The very title is worthy of note, who other than the pre-teen child, who anxiously await Santa Clause every Christmas believes that evil is something that might be defeated, let alone terminated? Inside more of the same it's black or white style. Many reviewers have pointed out to the almost laughable - if it weren't so tragic - suggestions contained in the 'text'that Amewrica continue its Napoleonic campaign in Syria, Iran and even Cuba while treating France as an enemy. These strategies are outlined so clearly and decisively they will make those who won't cry from despair, laugh out loud as they enjoy the drunken stupor that is the best state to read this book in.... These observations are what make the book readable, and there are plenty of them to satisfy any taste (mostly Dracula's). Given the comments the distinguished authors and statesmen have to say about the State Department, this book should be a hot seller in diplomatic circles everywhere, where I'm sure it will become the subject of much amusement.	2004-01-09
US	42310170	R298104ILMGKQ0	0375420827	766895282	The Art of Travel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Poetry of Airports and Travels Through the Self	This is a truly wonderful book which will help thoughtful travlers unravel the many inexplicable sensations form excitemnt to boredom and nostalgia that accompany them on their journeys.The title hints that the book also discusses how artists, from painters to poets, have used travel to explore their own passions reflecting them through their workform the exotic tatstes of Gustave Flaubert to the quiet loneliness of the paintings of Edward Hopper. In this sense the book could well be described as an art history text; however, it speaks in a personal and warm tone that engages readers and stimualting them to thinsk about the genuine meaning of travel, well beyond the clich&eacute; expressions, we so often use to boast about places we've seen to friends and family. The book makes you think about why we travel and what is it that we learn about ourselves in the process. On a more personal basis, I finally found in de Botton an author that shares my love of airports. They have become those places where so much of the best qualities of humanity become evident. People exchanging genuine affection, love and friendship as joyously embrace a firend,, lover or reltaive at the arrivals floor or more poignantly - and perhaps more poetically - as they say goodbye, sometimes for a brief period, sometimes permanently, at the departures gate. The tears on both sides of the customs gate, speak for the hundreds and thousands of miles that will separate them. I could not recommend this bokk more, as it provokes you to think with your brain and perhaps even more with your soul.	2004-01-08
US	42310170	R125YLAXSKB3DK	0571205828	506162225	Dark Heart of Italy	Books	5	28	34	N	N	A Justifiably Critical View of Berlusconi's Italy	In reading \\"The Dark Heart of Italy\\"(from a phrase by the famed author Carlo Levi)  I couldn't help feeling uneasy about the author's comments and I too felt the discomfort expressed by some of the other reviewers. However, as I continued I also had to admit that the author was not exagerating; indeed, he reflected my own concerns (and those of countless Italians of every political orientation) over the future of Italy, the country where I was born and where the author, Tobias Jones has his own reasons for loving. For even as Jones is critical, his love for the undeniably beautiful things in Italy - the generosity and friendliness of the people, the philosophical approach to life and the beauty, natural and man-made, of the country are evident throughout.<br />In 1999, Tobias Jones was an English journalist who worked to the \\"Independent\\" of London. He fell in love with a girl from Parma (ironically the city where the biggest fraud in Italian financial history has been perpetrated by Parmalat). He is now married to her and he's moved to Parma from England.  The book presents episodes in the time and space from the North to Sicily and from the civil war after 8th September 1943 to the reconstruction of the post-war period to the 'anni di piombo' (lead years) of the 70's. In January 2003, the book was released in england and it was accompanied by a report by Jones for the Financial Times entitled \\"My Italian television hell\\". I decided to immediately purchase the book, as I could not agree more with the author about the state - literally - of Italioan television and the way it reflects the general state of malaise of politics and culture. In Italy it caused an outbreak of comments, both positive praising th book and the author for his keen observations and just criticisms - moslty from the Political Left and the Centre,and violent hostility by the Government of berlusconi, which in typical and regrettable fashion threatened diplomatic protests. Ultimately what  emerges form the book is that Cavaliere Silvio Berlusconi's recipe for success is to dress properly and don't pay taxes. No matter how anglo-saxon the observation, it cannot be denied that berlsuconi's government as Tobias Jones suggests in the book, has lowered legal standards and institutionalized certain forms of corruption. A review by John Foot published in the 'Guardian' noted that the Italian minister of finance announced the introdiction of the so-called\\" condono treasurer\\" (the pardon treasurer) allowing for tax evaders to be rewarded for their efforts, fully exposing the Banana Republic that Italy has become today.<br />Tobias Jones exposes a country that is currently under the control of a omnipotent government and I suggest that all those who want to learn about - or are ignoring - what is happening in Italy today and its dnagers to read this book. Unfortunately, as Prime Minister Berlusconi controls most of the Italian press and media (as if Ted Turner were President of the USA while still maintaing control of CNN and AOL-Time, Congress), it is difficult for books such as these to be written by Italians - though there are some that have never been translated in English. The Italian situation as Jones points out should be the object of scandal and protests. Some may complain about the lengthy discussion on soccer, but those who know and have lived in Italy will understand as the sport has become a true subsitute for religion-in the bad sense. Of course, Jones mentions the Media Mogul Prime Minister's own soccer interests as owner of the Milan team.<br />Overall, this is an important and timely book, which is also amusing in parts and ultimately, it reflects the author's love for Italians.s form the book is that Cavaliere Silvio Berlusconi's recipe for success is to dress properly and don't pay taxes. No matter how anglo-saxon the observation, it cannot be denied that berlsuconi's government as Tobias Jones suggests in the book, has lowered legal standards and institutionalized certain forms of corruption. A review by John Foot published in the 'Guardian' noted that the Italian minister of finance announced the introdiction of the so-called\\" condono treasurer\\" (the pardon treasurer) allowing for tax evaders to be rewarded for their efforts, fully exposing the Banana Republic that Italy has become today. <br />Tobias Jones exposes a country that is currently under the control of a omnipotent government and I suggest that all those who want to learn about - or are ignoring - what is happening in Italy today and its dnagers to read this book. Unfortunately, as Prime Minister Berlusconi controls most of the Italian press and media (as if Ted Turner were President of the USA while still maintaing control of CNN and AOL-Time, Congress), it is difficult for books such as these to be written by Italians - though there are some that have never been translated in English. The Italian situation as Jones points out should be the object of scandal and protests. Some may complain about the lengthy discussion on soccer, but those who know and have lived in Italy will understand as the sport has become a true subsitute for religion-in the bad sense. Of course, Jones mentions the Media Mogul Prime Minister's own soccer interests as owner of the Milan team.<br />Overall, this is an important and timely book, which is also amusing in parts and ultimately, it reflects the author's love for Italians.	2004-01-07
US	42310170	R1ZIDN5R7JH0HY	185649800X	175324165	The Gardens of Their Dreams: Desertification and Culture in World History	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fascinating  combination of ecology, sociology and history	I admit that when I first came across this book I wasn't quite sure about the significance of the subject matter, or, indeed, if Id'be interested. It was my pleasure to discover, however, an entirely new approach to explain social and espcieally environmnetal degradation. The author interestingly shows how women are the first to suffer from environmental degradation. He uses the examples of lands facing - or that have faced - important desertification processes to show how a liberal society where men and women share more or less equal status can shift to favor the dominance of males. Students of ancient Egypt will be very interested to know there is a chapter on how desertification affected socio-cultural processes (and stagnation) in Egypt. There are chapters on China, North Africa and Europe some also touch on the effects that desertification has on racism and the strengthening of racial identities - namely aryan. It may all look imprpbable in thsi brief description that does little justice to the volume; however, it is surprising to find that there is a logical and sensical approach that allows for a very interesting,timely and satisfying read.	2004-01-05
US	42310170	R20YPII7Y95UU0	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	3	3	N	N	No cheese here! This book has an altogether different scent	It's been quite some time that i've wanted to write a review of this fine book. I should state from the outset that I'm not a business person. My motivations and opinions on this book derive form a more literary interest and, more significantly, from having read other business books only to find them utterly disappointing. So why do I find this one different?  For one thing, it's well written and avoids much of the common jargon that is so fashionable in more popular quick tips and quick fix books that have sold millions of copies and been translated in countless languages form Spanish to eastern Mongolian Dialect.  Speking of Mongolia, this book will not inspire you with the leadership skills of Genghis Khan, not will it offer metaphors of mice, fish and other fauna.  No, Donald Mitchell and carol Coles deal exclusively in common sense examples of how the competitive structure of your organization - and by extension your own personal attitude - may benefit from clearly explained principles and case studies.<br />I have actually sought advice form this book in organizing the contents of a conference on an entirely different, and find its general usefulness such to wrrant me keeping my copy of the book at my desk in my office for reference. i believe this is the first time that I can actually use rather than berate the advice contained in a business book.	2003-11-05
US	42310170	R2G9YGP5A5IVVT	0811808424	632913221	Under the Tuscan Sun: At Home in Italy	Books	1	27	36	N	N	More pretentious than the Medicis without the substance	I have always been skeptical of fancy travelogues, particularly thsoe written by rich anglo-saxons in search of poetry and aesthetic delight in a country that has plenty to offer of both.  I think only Goethe captured it properly with his 'Reise nach Italien'.  The problem with this sort of style is that it never really shows who the loclas are.  They are only a prop to use as leverage for some pretentious story about the diffciulty of doing this transaction or the charm of this hand jesture.  This book describes Tuscany (a fraction of Italy) as a paradise.  it can be but only if you're rich.  Italians live now as most Americans. They have all the 'plagues' of modern life and what would have been interesting is to discover how many of them have compromised the traditional Italian lifestyle with the demands of modern life.  For, in genral, despite the difficulties Italians are fun-loving and enjoy aesthetic pursuits at all class levels.  this book makes too much of catholic traditions; whereas Italians (especially educated ones) are mostly agnostic and care less about God than most Europeans. Let alone Americans.  they also don't care about decoration in a restaurant and food is judged on its own merit.  the best loved pizza in Italy is served in a very ugly restaurant called Trianon in a poor central area of Napoli. It's where pizza Margherita was invented.  Building or renovating a renaissance villa is no small task and it's a pursuit 99.9% of Italians cannot afford. this book hardly approaches anything close to a description of life in Italy.  It's self-absorbed as its writer and pretentious.  Ms. Mayes should now complement the package with a rich Italian boyfriend who drives a Ferrari of course.  (even though most Ferraris are sold in California, because most Italians can't afford them and if they can they don't wnat to flaunt it).  Though Italians do drive as if they are all at the wheel of a red sports car.	2002-01-03
US	42310170	RNCLEXTT0D2Z	0815602804	287551675	Ramza (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Story about Social Change in late 19th century Egypt	Out El Kouloub's Ramza is a fine fictional work that contributes to the understanding of the aristocratic harem institution in Egypt and the factors that helped  bring its destruction in the 1920's  through the vicissitudes of its heroine Ramza Farid.  The harem had survived and flourished throughout the Ottoman Empire for centuries until internal social and political changes and growing European influence in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries closed the harem officially.  In the Ottoman Empire proper this occurred in 1909 after the Young Turks seized power from Sultan Abdulhamid II who had become increasingly conservative in an attempt to curb socially liberalizing ideas that had started to threaten the future of traditional institutions such as the harem.<br />More significantly, some articulate and resilient harem women  actively began to object their condition and were captivated by feminist ideals that eventually prevailed against the harem and those who continued to identify with it. Houda Sha'rawi became famous in Egypt for openly objecting to the wearing of the veil in public and in the Ottoman Empire proper Halide Edip expressed a discontent at the harem system which is reminiscent of Ramza's. Notions of marriage and family were inseparable from the harem institution and  a rejection of the harem system necessarily entailed one against the majority of societal notions of  women's rights and status.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R2NO1X5A78T1WL	0292751559	93012707	Fragments of Memory: A Story of a Syrian Family (Modern Middle East Literature in Translation Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Poverty, Struggle and Effect of globalization in Syria	Fragments of Memory is a  socio-historical novel that illustrates the characteristics of rural life in Syria at the time of the French Mandate.  This biographical novel is particularly effective in illustrating issues related to the exercise of power and the role of the state.  There will also be an analysis of the expectations of family life and the respective roles of men, women and children and the role of religion in daily life. The Novel offers considerable insight into relations of power and the role of the state in rural society.  The vicissitudes of the author's family in al-Suwaydiya and the village of al-Akbar clearly show that the landowner and the village headman - mukhtar - held all the power, especially when the landowner was also the mukhtar as was the case in al-Suwaydiya.  The first chapters of the novel describe the family's move from the administrative capital Latakiya to the coastal village of al-Suwaydiya.  There the family virtually submits to a sharecropping arrangement with the mukhtar, Mr. Elias, who owns the land, which entitled it to earn a quarter of the income accruing from the cultivation of mulberry trees while the rest went to the mukhtar (p.19).  The paramount characteristic of this arrangement, however, is the relationship of dependency that the family develops upon the assistance of the mukhtar that borders on slavery.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R3JUX2NEJPETY5	0521289688	107039049	Egypt in the Reign of Muhammad Ali (Cambridge Middle East Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Birth of Modern Egypt	This is an excellent book and it effectively describes the social, economic and indistrial transformation of Egypt during the reign of Muhammad Ali Pasha, often referred to as the founder of modern Egypt. As governor since 1805, in the aftermath of Napoleon's invasion of 1798 and subsequent British aided Ottoman intervention in 1801, he undertook a series of policies aimed at re-organizing the authority through the centralization of military and economic power to make Egypt an imperial state within the Ottoman Empire. Muhammad Ali instituted a policy of military conscription that effectively replaced the Janissary system that had existed prior to the nineteenth century. He shunned the influence of Istanbul in favour of France, whose expertise in military arts and technical advances were necessary to accomplish the reforms required to modernize the army and society.<br />A principal characteristic of these reforms was a process of industrialization conceived to build local capacity and in the manufacture of military equipment and a parallel capacity in the production of consumer goods to do away with dependency on imports. The state managed the industrialization process and the economy in general through a system of protective trade mechanisms and monopolies intended to guarantee the state's exclusive ownership of the means of production and distribution. Significant advancements in infrastructure and an administrative shift in the organization of land tenure that renewed agricultural growth accompanied the industrialization drive. By the end of his reign Muhammad Ali succeeded in establishing a hereditary governorship in Egypt and de-facto autonomy from Istanbul, though his ambitious industrial experiment did not survive him.<br />The high costs of manufacturing and idiosyncrasies inherent in the monopolistic management system dealt a deathblow to Egyptian industry by the middle of the nineteenth century. The book analyzes these issues through a study of the characteristics and effects of industrialization under Muhammad Ali through an analysis of his administrative and agricultural reforms, a survey of the military and consumer manufacturing activities. It also discusses the problems that eventually caused the failure of industrialization in Egypt.istics and effects of industrialization under Muhammad Ali through an analysis of his administrative and agricultural reforms, a survey of the military and consumer manufacturing activities. It also discusses the problems that eventually caused the failure of industrialization in Egypt.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R2SK2ITFFD0OMU	0520087828	248008051	An Occasion for War: Civil Conflict in Lebanon and Damascus in 1860	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Important in understanding the recent Middle East	This book may be accused of being biased but it's well worth reading nontheless as it provides an account that is invaluable in explaning the more recent civil war in Lebanon and in fact the roots of many Middle East problems as the Ottoman empire crumbled and led to increased European intervention. Fawaz is one of the main researchers in 19th century Social and Economic transformation in the Levant and is an excellent complement to fine general accounts by Roger Owen, Charles Issawi and Chevallier. Bias aside. Fawaz discusses the centralizing administrative reforms of the mid-19th century Syria and how these acted in conjunction with a unique combination of internal and external social and economic forces that collided to generate a violent civil war in the Lebanon and Damascus in 1860. The book analyzes the socio-economic conditions and circumstances that contributed to the civil conflict in Syria of 1860. It also considers the changes in the international economy in the mid-19th century and its effect in the context of Beirut and Damascus, European cultural, economic and political influence in the Syrian province and the changes in Christian-Muslim relations in terms of the application of the reforms. Ultimately it shows that while the 1860 Civil War in Syria was confessional in its manifestation, it was largely an expression of grievance against the rapid and widespread social and economic transformation that occurred in the first half of the 19th century.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R3F9KD8B07X2PX	1558760709	220538808	Napoleon in Egypt: Al-Jabarti's Chronicle of the French Occupation, 1798	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A fateful meeting of East and West	The Chronicle of Al-Jabarti is an account of the first six months of  Napoleon' s invasion and occupation of Egypt 1798.  Sheikh 'Abd Al-Rahman Al-Jabarti was an astronomer at Al-Azhar.  As a member of the 'Ulama, Napoleon appointed him to the Diwan, or Grand Council, through which the French had hoped to govern Egypt. This allowed Al-Jabarti to compile a detailed chronicle of the French organization of administrative matters, the battles and the flight of the Mamluks to Upper Egypt and the Revolt of Cairo.  Al-Jabarti left a valuable record of his impressions of the French in terms of their character and learning.  With the possible exception of the very protracted Spanish Reconquista which ended with the fall of Granada in 1492, it had not been since the Crusades that a 'Western' power had attempted an invasion of a Muslim land on the scale and scope of Napoleon.  The French General had also brought to Egypt an army of  scholars from L' Academie whose purpose it was to study and record all possible aspects of interest, while also showing off European science and learning.  Louis Antoine Fauvelet de Bourrienne (Napoleon's private secretary) included in his Memoirs a brief account of the invasion of Egypt .  A reading of both The Chronicle and the Memoirs provides an interesting insight as to how the Arabs and the French saw each other.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R33FD7ZCO1WGKE	0691054622	422406190	The State and Social Transformation in Tunisia and Libya, 1830-1980 (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	a Challenge to Modernization Theory	While most states of the Middle East region have pursued policies that more or less approached the prescriptions of the Modernization type meta-theories, there has been the general perception, from within and without, that the region as a whole has failed to live up to the promise of social and economic welfare that modern development was supposed to generate.  The political advancement of the Region toward more pluralistic or democratic forms of government that was supposed to proceed as the inevitable result of economic and industrial transformation has been even more disappointing and lagged far below material achievements. In The State and Social Transformation in Tunisia and Libya 1830-1980 Lisa Anderson has rejected the mainstream meta-theoretical approaches to the study of the nature of development in the Middle East.  Through a process of historical analysis of the socio-economic mechanisms that have characterized the nature of Libya and Tunisia's different paths of social and political transformation, Anderson has emphasized the study of state formation processes and the particular nature of a peripheral's state integration in the world capitalist system. Anderson has challenged both of the principal development meta-theories that became popular in the decades after WWII.  She has contested Modernization theory's interpretation of development moving in a linear pattern through predictable stages to inevitably culminate in the establishment of a democratic capitalist state modeled on the pattern of the West.  She has noted that development is not achieved without cost and that social conflict is a necessary outcome as the State balances its monopoly of authority as it coerces and encourages different social and economic actors to achieve a relative degree of stability and equity. In order to achieve this and promote a real degree of social transformation an efficient bureaucracy and public administration are crucial.  Accordingly, her study has shown the contrasting development patterns of Libya and Tunisia.  In the former, Anderson has stressed the persistence of kinship based societal relations and null bureaucratic development during the period of Italian colonization and the perpetuation of this pattern after independence.  Oil rents made it possible for the Libyan administration to rely almost exclusively on its distributive capacity to prevent the establishment of efficient institutional and bureaucratic machinery; consequently, society and political development have not progressed toward the formation of a modern state in the Weberian sense.ntrasting development patterns of Libya and Tunisia.  In the former, Anderson has stressed the persistence of kinship based societal relations and null bureaucratic development during the period of Italian colonization and the perpetuation of this pattern after independence.  Oil rents made it possible for the Libyan administration to rely almost exclusively on its distributive capacity to prevent the establishment of efficient institutional and bureaucratic machinery; consequently, society and political development have not progressed toward the formation of a modern state in the Weberian sense.	2001-12-30
US	42310170	R10QCGD89LFSC2	0471295639	178332963	Against the Gods: The Remarkable Story of Risk	Books	5	27	30	N	N	No Risk here, The Odds areYou'll love it.	i'm very much a novice in the study of risk and probabilities; however, I've been lucky enough to come across some excellent business oriented books - but in actuality and thankfully far more philosophical than financial - (Fooled by Randomness for instance) lately that have done a masterful job of presenting this seemingly dry subject in a very fascinating way.  Bernstein has probably written the quintessential historical study on Risk and Probability with this volume.  It is filled with interesting details of the human qualities and quirks of the mathematicians and philosophers that investigated the problems of probablity and explains the mathematics involved with lucidity and wit.  The book follows a chronological approach; however, it's also thematic to show the evolution of the subject of risk management and the influence of other sciences on it - such as evolution.  Those that refuse to accept the idea that markets remain unpredictable despite the development of modern risk control mechanisms like derivatives, computer modelling, and modern financial instruments will find this book frustrating.  Those who want a wquick fix investment solutions guide will be even angrier and will nort find anything useful here.  This book belongs in the philosophy of science and History of Ideas sections far more than the business dept.  Nonetheless, the serious and thoughtful investor is advised to read this book carefully. as someone who's lost in the stock markets himself the Bernstein's book can reduce the sting of the loss and impart some well needed wisdom.  I no longer invest but I loved this book all the same.	2001-12-28
US	42310170	R3LEWLDT6JR6MC	0691014841	411275676	Against Deconstruction	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Against Derrida ?	I am not a specilaist ion the field and I purchased this book to undertand deconstruction and its problems better.  I was not disappointed in Ellis' exposure of the fallacies of deconstruction; however, I think he focused excessively on Derrida, while there are others such as Lacan, kristeva to mention a few that also deserve some 'attention'.  I found the chapter on Language to be the clearest and most useful; however, I stress that I'm not a specialist and admit that reading this volume was somewhat difficult due to its emphsasis on logical reasoning and arguments.  Nonetheless, I do think that its criticisms of deconstruction - and especially its misguided applications in the US - were very clear and convincing.  Indeed, I find that Ellis' is strongest when he describes the intellectual climate out of which deconstruction was born, that is the stale monolithic character of french literary criticism of the 50's and the nned to supplant it with radical aideas that ultimately turn out to be just as stale.  My only criticism is the the writing style that may put off the non-specialist.  accordingly for thsoe like me I recommend the beautifully written The Reckless Mind by Lilla, which also exposes the fallcies of Derrida and other deconstructionists.	2001-12-10
US	42310170	R33R59WJMKICG	0375403558	138457754	Temperament: The Idea That Solved Music's Greatest Riddle	Books	5	11	19	N	N	Why is the piano the most complete instrument?	This is an absolutely beautiful book. It is a pleasure to read and very informative.  The book's focus is to show how a single concept originating with the mathematical and musical studies of Pythagoras, later Greek philosophers, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance through to the invention of the piano and the music of the great masters of Classical music has shaped music itself.  Isacoff explains the mathematical relationship of thirds, fifths and octaves in a clearer and more interesting manner than any piano teacher I ever had, which makes Temperament  (the title of the book referring to the taming and organization of vibrations into notes) a good primer on music theory. Apart from the lucid explanations of musical theory and its relationaship to mathematics, this book is also rich in historical detail, philosphy and of course music.  It is well organized and is so well written that it can be read in a weekend.  The book is not intended for the musical theorist, who might demand more specific texts; however, the music lover, the lover of ideas and their evolution will find this book almost indespensable.  When you read this book you'll rediscover the very pleasure of reading and it will make you hungry for more.  One of the best books of 2001 and one of the best I ever read.	2001-12-10
US	42310170	RNP8N1N7KP22A	0471323780	806385247	The Book of Risk	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Worth the risk of the purchase price	This book, without a doubt, offers a very clear explanation of the basic principles of risk management.  The book concentrates on financial applications and even has a chapter in which he creates a CEO scenario for the reader where the ideas of risk are put into practice. Borge also shows how the same principles may be applied to personal life from the decison to marry to what type of home insurance tp purchase.  Borge comes across as very affable and this helps to make the subject matter 'friendly' also.  However, I doubt this book was ever intended for finance professionals - though it might be useful in introductory courses on risk management. I also think those looking for more philosophical approaches to the subject (for instance Peter L. Bernstein or Nassim N Taleb) of risk may be somewhat disappointed.  At anay rate this book offers sensible advice that avoids easy solutions.  In an ideal world this book would be outselling Who Moved My Cheese?	2001-12-05
US	42310170	R38J5CZYEM990	0813338859	109785068	A Concise History of the Middle East (7th Edition)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Very good beginner text	Glodschmidt's History of the Middle east is perhaps the best introductory text for the study of M.E. history.  It's well written in a very comprehensible style, has an excellent bibliography to facilitate further research and covers 1300 yeras of Midddle Eastern History. There are similar books by Hourani- excellent - but they probably require some background into the subject to be fully appreciated.  So, this is the text I would recommend top the beginner.	2001-12-03
US	42310170	R2LK5SJ06ZYMCK	038572019X	380118508	Sprezzatura: 50 Ways Italian Genius Shaped the World	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable introductory cultural history of Italy	I would like to stress that Italian culture has influenced the World in more than 50 ways.  However, I think to many, this very well organized and written volume will offer plenty of surprises. having lived in North America for some time now, I'm often surprised at how few people know who Enrico Fermi - who had a primary role in the development of the nuclear reactor - was or Marconi, let alone Volta,Torricelli and the fact that America is named after Amerigo Vespucci.  The book is very well organized and arranged as a chronological encyclopedia, so that each chapter can stand alone and the reader can skim, skip and read about whichever genius he wishes without fear of missing relevant parts.  I enjoyed the fact that lesser known figures are included like Castiglione or Giovanni della Casa - I name I learned at the age of 3 when my mother taught me to set the table according to his rules as described in the Galateo - and that the book paid tribute to Enzo Ferrari, even though the quintessential Italian car is an Alfa Romeo.  I would have skipped Armani because most Italians prefer the more classic tailoring of Zegna, Corneliani, Brioni or Canali.  I think its strongest sections inevitably involve the Renaissance period. I would have, tehrefore, preferred to see greater concentration in lesser known aspects of the enlightenment, philosophers like Giovan-Battista Vico and Benedetto Croce.	2001-12-03
US	42310170	R1PXA790I9YGUP	0810114844	477956006	The Twelve Chairs (European Classics)	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Gentlemen of the Jury, things are moving!	This is a farcical tale of three men in search of treasure buried in one of 12 identical armchairs. The story is very much a buddy tale of adventures and misadventures as the characters do almost anything to get their hands on the chairs in the Soviet Union of the 1920's.  However, the story of the treasure hunt and the Marx Brothers like characters is really only the backdrop to a much deeper purpose, as The Twelve Chairs effectively describes the period of transition from czarist to Soviet rule. In between the tribulations of the heroes are many details of the food that was being served, student accomodations, railway and public construction projects, housing sooperatives and less than honest public servants.  It is also very interesting to see how helpless the former upper class - the nobility - had become and how the Soviet Union, at least in its early days, could be exploited by the street smart like Ostap Bender.  This is a very funny book that is also informative and is well worth reading.  Inevitably, Bulgakov comes to mind as a complementary read; though he is somewhat more direct in his accusations of the regime.	2001-12-03
US	42310170	R1CY3LPQE2OT87	0520082419	389263025	The Modern Middle East: A Reader	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Very useful and readable text	I came across this book by chance while searching for other Hourani titles. Hourani is an editor and writes the opening essay; nontheless, I found it to be an invaluable complement to his History of the Arab Peoples which desctibes 13 centuries of history.  This volume has the room to cover in greater detail  the ideas, customs and culture that accompanied and shaped the historical events.  There are excellent essays on the shaping of Arab thought in the late 19th century and the ideological - modern transformation of Turkey/Ottoman Empire at the outset of the 20th century.  Other essyas deal with the customs of the serraglio, cinema modern literature and economic affairs.  It's truly encyclopedic and I find that the oxford encyclopedia of Islam ed. by Esposito is the volume that more closely approaches it. The essays cover the period considered the modern era (i.e from the French revolution and Napoleon's invasion of Egypt to the present)and features leading scholars' essays. I recommended it to one of my professors to use as a companion volume in his Modern Middle East course.	2001-12-01
US	42310170	R194DUBPH0VGE5	1555875602	239273473	Collapsed States: The Disintegration and Restoration of Legitimate Authority	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An examination of the fault lines	At what point can it be said that a state has collapsed?  This volume, after the editor Zartman's inieial essay on the nature and causes of state collapse, proivides individual essays by other specialists that examine the nature of state collapse in different countries. Mist of these, given the nature of the phenomenon uner examination, are in Africa.  There are remarkaple similarities in the almost mechanical processes that take place when a state is about to fall into anarchy.  This is an excvellent volume to understand Somalia, Algeria, Congo Chad and others.  It also attempts to examine the signs of imminent collapse.  This volume is indispensable , i find, despite its mid 90's publication in understanding what happened in Afghanistan if only by conjecture.  The coming Anarchy, and The Ends of the Earth by Robert Kaplan are also excellent complementary volumes even if they are not written in the academic tomne of the Zaertman volume.	2001-12-01
US	42310170	R1DTCRIJ8YW1QG	0822322765	943103015	Parallax Visions: Making Sense of American&ndash;East Asian Relations at the End of the Century (Asia-Pacific: Culture, Politics, and Society)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Change of Perspective can Change Policy?	The word &quot;parallax&quot; in this title is quickly explained: by changing your position the thing you are lloking at will also seem to change. In observing East Asia, there has been a tendency (at least prior to the april 2001 incident) you might think that American influence was declining as China and Japan are emerging as regional - global - powers.  Cumings is not alarmed and believes that capitalist and democratic counties w111 continue to co-operate while and the move towards free trade and international will remain strong as more asian countries participate. As values are increasingly shared between Asia and America, it is misleading to stress the differences. America will remain the region's dominant power for a long time yet. The biggest threats to n Asia are misperceptions, exaggerated fears or imaginary &quot;sunspots&quot;.  One not so imaginary spot is Afghanistan and Central Asia.  the near future will provide an ideal testing ground for Mr. Cumings theory.	2001-11-30
US	42310170	R211ASKRTVRLRU	0387987010	293584016	Rare Earth: Why Complex Life is Uncommon in the Universe	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Rare insight and interesting	Although I tend to believe, if not hope, that there are other advanced life forms in the universe, the authors of Rare earth do make a very interesting case for the uniqueness of life on Earth and the conditions that generated it.<br />Ward and Brownlee argue that while primitive microbial life may well exist throughout the universe,more complex organisms that evolved on earth owe their existence to an unusual combination of factors. Therefore they contrast with Carl Sagan's views of a million (&quot;billions and billions&quot;) civilisations in this galaxy alone. The earth position is largely responsible for life's success on this planet. The earth by chance orbits a star not too close to the centre of the galaxy where cataclysmic events and dangerous and radiation would prove hostile to living be-ngs, but it is not too close to the 'ethereal' outer edge where heavy planet making elements are harder to find. It is lucky also that the sun is a solitary, stable star and the earth has stable orbit around it.<br />The book draws on various discilines and is extremely interesting. As a result, the book provides a handy introduction to astrobiology-the emerging field that combines astronomy, biology and planetary science.	2001-11-30
US	42310170	R109EWQ0256URM	0195147103	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Entertaining and sensible - No Voodoo	This is an excellent book for tyhsoe eho enjoyed Fashionable Nonsense and the Skeptical Environmentalist. Dr Park has been campaigning against voodoo science in its foams for 20 years. His book outlines his experiences.  In gebral the book does not aim to deride silly science as amuch as other like minded efforts have; however, he does make his point.  The style is rather gentle for thsi genre and very narrative.  More importnatly, the focus of the book is its criticism of bad science within the scientific community itself, rather than<br />an all out attack, only, on nut-job UFO &quot;researchers&quot; or new-age archaeologists. A notable example of bad science he notes are is the space station. He also targets those who, having made wild claims about some amazing new phenomenon,lie rather than admit they were wrong. I enjoyed it.	2001-11-30
US	42310170	R1QW8QENUBL313	0812930967	694345343	A Future Perfect: The Challenge and Hidden Promise of Globalization	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Demystifies Globalization but too optimistic?	The main point of this book - with which I fully agree - is that globalization is hardly a new phenomenon. Most, if not even more, aspects of the current globalization also existed a century ago. Indeed, you might be forgiven for thinking that the free movement of people - emigration - in the world was arguably more global then than it is now. So the process is not new but it feels new, Why?. For starters it's only been slightly over ten years since the fall of Communism and the unfettered resurgence of the free market as the unquestionably dominant economic ideology. Nontheless, the process also feels new because most of us are still reluctant to concede authority to extranational bodies and institutions while national politics still operates in self contained systems.  The main point is this, and it is my principal compalint about globalization, international or global power is still mostly limited to the financial markets and multinational corporations and less to supranational bodies like the EU.  meanwhile, as we are ever in search of the best product and brand there is the job insecurity that results Fiom greater foreign competition and the cultural hegemony of the United States.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	R2P17H7QYD57Y9	1565846036	215481703	On the Edge of the New Century	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An old leftist's (valuable) reflections	At the end of the 70's Mr Hobsbawm with a famous essay &quot;The Forward Search of Labour Halted&quot;in which he criticized the complacency of the labour class and his own Communist Party. . Mr Hobsbawm indicated that the working class had been betrayed by its own success. In this volume, his views are yet gloomier and notes that as the Soviet Union has collapsed the impetus for collective action has waned and &quot;private and selfish interests seriously erode left-wing values&quot;. Modern day lefyist governments (such as Britain's Labour) efforts at redistribution are weak and the only real criticism of capitalism is voiced (unfortunately) by the very ant-communist Pope John Paul II ! Hobsbawm's reflections are the result of sevral interviews with Antonio Polito, the London correspondent of La Repubbilica, perhaps the (and left oriented) Italian daily newspaper.<br />As someone who wishes that more intelligent and authoritative figures criticized the excesses of capitalism I found this volume very refreshing. Espaecially as it avoided environmental and multiculturalism fantasies most commonly asociated with the modern left and re-opened a more economically focused discussion.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	ROEIC0HUZG32R	0226256626	454095461	The Fourth Great Awakening and the Future of Egalitarianism	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Why aren't Americans Happier?	Robert Fogel discusses what he calls 'spiritual inequality&quot;, in the hope that the next american spiritual awakening 'fourth great awakening&quot; in American religious Faith will change things. Fogel points ou that change has come in an astonishingy short period, he oints out, technical process has made it possible for almost everyone in the rich world to have food, clothing and shelter: which, a century ago, absorbed 8o% of the average household's consumption. The very meaning of poverty has changed. His book deals with the relationship between, on the one hand, organised religion and its periodic &quot;awakenings&quot;, often stimulated by technological change; and, on the other, the political drive of equality.  The first &quot;great awakening in the 173os, laid the'Logical basis for the American Revolution, starting in 1800, built up to the abolition of slavery. The &quot;Fourth great wakening&quot; of the book's title is the religious revival that began around 1960. Like the two awakenings, it stressed equality of opportunity. But tis has set it at odds with the third awakening, which began late in the 19th century but cast its shadow throug the 2oth century. Because equality even of opportunity is hard to achieve, it may be that equality of remains forever an unattainable dream.  I was disappointed by Fogel's reluctance to go deeper into the religious debate.  Will American Christian fundamentalism rise - just as the Islamic one is and roughly as a reaction to modern secular life - and will it clash with secualr Europe?<br />all in all the book has a worthy purpose but I would have also preferred to see a less 'scientific' or econometric approach.  Thomas Frank, Sennett and even Ortega's biography of Sam Walton offer a less theoretical but more compelling view of modern American life.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	R20DYZBSN0ZQ5N	0743200284	190676249	Deliver Us from Evil: Peacekeepers, Warlords and a World of Endless Conflict	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, but I still don't think much could be done in Rwanda	This an analysis of most of the trouble-spots that preoccupied the world in recent decades through tile eyes a British journalist William Shawcross, and, to a lesser degree the secretary-general of the United Nations, Kofi An-nan, whom Mr Shawcross has accompanied on many of his travels.<br />The book concentrates of US policy United States which has not been willing to get involved in distant conflicts and send troops to try to establish 'peace' in distant countries and to do the job sevarl of its allies are also unwilling to do.  Shawcross apperas to blame the US mostly for its terror of losing any of its soldiers' lives in combat, as Somalia shows.<br />The focus of the book is the US and international unwillingness to engage in Rwanda in 1994, in which, according one calculation cited by Mr Shawcross, the killing rate was five times that of the dazi death camps 50 years earlier. Members of the Clinton administration would not even dare describe the slaughter as genocide, for fear that it would oblige them, under the 1949 Genocide convention, to take action. Only France sent troops.<br />Shawcross is fair but I feel is overly trusting in the potential of the UN (as a former UNDP officer I have become very pessimistic about the potential of the UN) and tries to explain failures.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	R3D2CKFSKPZISF	0609807374	924992585	The Working Life: The Promise and Betrayal of Modern Work	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A more optimistic 'Nickel and Dimed&quot;	Sciulla's book avoids policy conclusions, and other theoretical certainties as other books like Fogels' 4th Awakening. She notes the interesting point that &quot;Today, clock time measures events&quot; in the past events measured time. For example, in Magadascar a half hour was measured by the time it took to cook rice. She became interested in the nature of work when she subsidised one job teaching philosophy with another as a waitress in a restaurant. Ms. Ciulla is particularly struck by the fact thatt wealth has not brought happiness. People continue to want to earn a living. Even when people have enough to live on, many of them continue to want to work, remaining perplexed at the fact that while life is supposed to be easier, many continue to seek meaning through employment.  However, she notes, employment provides a schedule and a rythm for daily life and serves as an outlet ofr greater forms of community participation.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	R11BZICPTQL96W	0375407286	560043093	The Sikhs	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Informative if somewhat biased account	Mr Singh's survey is brief. He does justice to the nationalist aspirations of the Sikhs and the various forms of discriminations against them, but does not address the more common or everyday 'stereotyping' as nouveaux riches, dagger carriers and turban wearers. Mr Singh is good at explaining the Sikh's view of their own history but tends to be impartial in praising their causes or worldview. Indeed, he begins by attacking one of the oldest world religion - and rival -Hinduism by criticizing, among other things, its caste system and particualrly the Brahmins who have dominated the Indian subcontinent for much of its history. He also dismisses other competing religious groups in india - i.e. Buddhists.  Overall, despite the understandable bias I found the book informative, if unbalanced.  It is also worthwhile as America becomes more embroiled in central Asia.  After all the Sikh region prevails in the Punjab, a region which India shares with Pakistan.	2001-11-29
US	42310170	R1D3W0UPYVKYBB	3829020295	334363616	Gentleman: A Timeless Fashion	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The true Gentleman of this book genre	For those who've seen my other reviews, this may seem a rather odd item to rate so highly.  However, I think that, having seen sevral other books on men's fashion and having worked at Canada's most luxurious retailer (P/T), I feel very confident in recommending this as the ultimate men's grooming and fashion guide.  It's a very tastefully presented and photographed volume with well organized sections on suits, jackets, pants, shirts and so on.  While it does recommend expensive brands, it also shows how to match/mix designs while stimulating indiviadual dressing creativity.  this book is in facy very useful for those who want to experiment with various combinations and who are tired of the usual basic suit standards.  It promotes British, Italian and American high-end tailoring like teh Savile Row tailors, Kiton, Brioni, Brooks Brothers. in addition to all the information, the book offers timeless advice and that's it's best quality.  A gentleman possesses timeless elegance. i recommend this book far more than anything by Flusser and more than the Clotehrs and the Man, or dress for Success (very boring).  So be creative.	2001-11-27
US	42310170	R34BSCQCSU2KMC	0812932978	913243416	In Sam We Trust: The Untold Story of Sam Walton and Wal-Mart, the World's Most Powerful Retailer	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A fascinating History of America	This is an excellent book. It's not merely the account of a powerful businessman and how he sahped a company. It's also an account of modern American socio-economic history. Ortega expalins hoe Sam Walton maanged to take advantage of changes that were occurring in demographic distribution, technology and savvy business techniques from those who taught him and his competitors. Ortega provides a history of retailing in the USA from the late 19th century and explains the success of the modern outlet store in terms of its roots in the catalogue stores, department stores and demographic distribution. The history of the WalMart company is told by focusing on its relentless founder Sam Walton. ortega reveals Walton's hiring processes, the reasons that led him to develop the worker profit-sharing programs and how the ideas of the cheer and other details, now familiar to any Wal Mart shopper, came to be.  Ortega does not set out to accuse Walton, he lets the story speak for itself and the reader can decide whether or not they wish to continue shopping there.  All in all this Business profile is well worth reading.	2001-11-25
US	42310170	R28ZUJ0MFMPGCJ	0805045554	991193954	A Small Treatise on the Great Virtues: The Uses of Philosophy in Everyday Life	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A thinking man's self-help book	This book is apparently very popular in France and continental Europe.  It deserves equal success in North America. It is a collection of essays that explore 18 virtues.  Love, Politeness, Fidelity, Tolerance, Humor among them and drws his, very readable and humorous, analysis from his own experience and from the great philosophers of all time ranging from Aristotle to Aquinas, Kant, Nietzche and Rielke to mention a few from memory. The virtues are also arranged according to an order.  He starst with politeness, which he considers to be almost a virtue, to Love, the ultimate virtue.  In many ways I was reminded of Alain de Botton's excellent Consolations of Philosophy.  Indeed, it is equally good but interestingly different.  Read them both.  Also a warning to those who seek absolute truths: There aren't any to be found here, and that's part of the charm and its appeal to free-thinkers.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R2KWRAKGRLXW4G	0374525579	973254123	Casanova: The Man Who Really Loved Women	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Insightful Analysis of a Misunderstood Man	Lydia flem provides a refreshing account of the, often misunderstood in North America, Giacomo Casanova. She bases her study on Casanova's autobographical History of My Life which he wrote while exiled from Venice in a Bohemian castle.  In many ways casanova was a romantic and an intellectual.  he loved the good life, enjoyed aesthetic pursuits, was a violinist, writer, poet and even dabbled in medicine.  he was also the contemporary of Mozart and was born in the city of Vivaldi (another misunderstood venetian who was exiled from his native city).  Most significantly, Flem stresses the fact that casanova was more of a feminist than a womanizer.  He did have affairs with plenty of women, surely (and why anyone should object to that is a mistery).  However, he appreciated women, treated them as equals and only sought mutual pleasure.  The misunderstanding comes from the notion that he only sought sexual pleasure.  No, he was witty, spoke several langauges and his comapny was welcomed throughgout the courts of Europe.  he was also a bit of a Robin-Hood and, like most fun-loving and charming people, spendthrift and unconcerned with financial matters.<br />This is the account of a charming personality.  There is much to learn form Casanova, and I admit I purchased the book with thge original intent of sharpening my own seductive techniques. I found them, in fact, extremely effective - especially with intelligent ones (mostly from eastern europe) just as Casanova did.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R18RKT8BMIF6TU	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Too Much Praise for the 'Mission Statement' Generation	I stress that i found this book somewhat entertaining to read and rather erudite and well written.  However, I was disappointed, and frustrated, by the all too often unapologetic approach to the many consumeristic and pseudo-humanistic attitudes of much of the new upper class.  At times thsi book read like a veritable catalogue of useless luxury goods. almost an entire chapter is devoted to a Seattle Outdoors specialty goods shop whose excess borders on decadence. But not just the store, the whole lifestyle it represents is decadence - and not the fun kind unfortunately. the new establishment's supposed penchant for environmentally conscious (read ugly) clothing, unconcern for tradition anmd over-concern for cultures of questionable values seem contrived. I expected a more critical approach to this generation (my own also, I'm 34)of expensive trend following fools guised as concern for third world (excuse my incorrectness , ehm, &quot;developing world&quot;) and environmental causes they hardly understand as they parrott chants, slogans and intelligence-insulting mission statements about this or that declining species, furniture from the Galapagos islands and curry delicacies from the Kashmir. And what of the endoresemnt of the snobbery of the Times wedding pages and the over specialization and educated (though often obtuse) leaders of our times.  I think the generation that gave us the mission statement has a lot more to account for.  There is too much cultural relativism and self absorption masked in false concern for the rest of the world. Bobos in paradise echoes and, ultimately, praises the cliches of the new establishment.  Neil Postman, Thomas Frank and Alain de Botton offer more valuble critiques and advice for modern living.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R2C21HMUAV8R2O	0786866748	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews, 1971-2000	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Wit and - well deserved - criticism	This collection of Amis'best essays cover a wide variety of topics from reviews of good and bad writers to Hillary Clinton, a hilarious endictement of Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan, The Space Shield, Chess and an outline of the books he most admires from Nabokov to Vidal.  i have yet to read all the essays and have thus far concentrated on the less litertay ones, those that deal with public figures and issues.  i found thee alone to be worth the price of the book. As the title of the book suggests Amiks aims his criticism toward uncritical and banal thinkers.  it is not, however, a necessarily political book.  Amis criticizes art on its own merit and not its relevance to a social or political cause.  In this sense it is different than an another excellent essay collection by Christopher Hitchens, Unacknowledged Legislation, who stresses the political obligations of writers.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R1G52GG85KZ1EB	0375701273	706296379	Building a Bridge to the 18th Century: How the Past Can Improve Our Future	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Not a Luddite	Somehow Postman has been accused of being a luddite. I'm not sure how he got theis reputation. He is certainly critical of present excesses, but as this book shows, he merely - and justly - questions current ideas that have degenerated to produce dubious advantages. he has no objections to technology or science but, he argues, there is aneed to revert to a more humanist (which also implies liberal in the good sense of the word) approaches to temper the way technology is creeping intrusively into our lives.  In philosophical terms he argues against cultural relativism and its older brother deconstruction - i.e. Derrida, Lacan.  in this he is joined - though he does not mention it - by several leading physicists and, indeed, Fashionable Nonsense by Sokal confirms this.  Like many greek classical philosophers, from Plato to Epicurus, postman excercises healthy doubt and merely questions the present.  Not all change is good.  I also found the book to be very well written, erudite and humorous.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R186EZC11ID301	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	5	9	18	N	N	The Classic Infidel Text	As a convinced agnostic, born catholic, I looked to this book to look for the fodder to use in my own re-programming efforts with convinced believers.  However, as a convinced agnostic, if not downright atheist, I am well aware of the limitations of logic in matters of beleif or unbeleif and I found that russell himself makes little effort to attempt a logical case against faith.  This is probably a good thing.  What I did like in the collection of essays is Russell's arguments against the evils of beleif and the obstacles to human progress that it causes.  i think this is the real point of arguing against faith.  it is certainly more productive than arguing for or against the existence of God.  In the religions - man made institutions - are the problem, not God.	2001-11-22
US	42310170	R1SCHRW5LKF7N3	157500089X	400129229	Face of Russia	Books	5	21	23	N	N	The Rich Cultural Legacy of Russia	This book is similar in approach to the better known heaven and Hell by Bruce Lincoln.  However, Billington concentartes more on the art and includes a beautiful section of plates.  Unlike Lincoln's book, it is easily approached and is a reasonable 260 pages.  Billington shows the connections between Russia's spiritual, historical and political traditions have played a direct role in defining its cultural and artistic production. He profiles individual artists and art forms.  The painting of Rublev and the medieval stile on firewood, the architect Rastrelli, Gogol, Mussorsgki and Eisenstein primarily. the main point is that Russians learned from others, imitated and then transformed the art into a uniqe interpretation that reflected their reality that is often more ambitious and beautiful.  anyone who's heard Rachmaninov's 2nd piano concerto or seen a painting by Repin should have no problem sahring this view.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R2ZP1NZ4YDDS6B	0393049647	605138821	Failed Crusade: America and the Tragedy of Post-Communist Russia	Books	5	6	8	N	N	U.S. Policy in Russia Should Change	Stephen Cohen examines the effects of the US' premature and overly optimistic drive to promote free market policies in Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union. (I concur and conjured up an image in my mind of American mangers handing out copies - at cost - of 'The One Minute Manager' and 'Who MOved My Cheese' to Russian scientists telling them to change).  He considers this one of the US main foreign policy failures of the 90's. These policies, he argues have set Russa back to an almost feudal condition comparable to the worse experiences prior to the 1917 Revolution. Somehow, when I meet so many talented Russian scientists, engineers, intellectuals of all sorts I notice that mopst have had to abandon the their careers becasue of lack of investmnet and opportunities.  Now many talented people have to become salesmen or business men , programmers and take up jobs that have little use for their talents.  In this sense I whleheartedly agree with Prof. Cohen. Cohen lived in Russia and, perhaps due to his efforts to understand the Communist moderste Bukharin, argues that a progressive rollback of the state economy along with democratizing reforms would have provided Russians a better alternative than a cold jump into the market - as Sachs advocated.  Cohen describes the corrupt Yeltsin years and the Americans who failed to understand Russian developments in the 1990s. Cohen fears that a change in policy is necessary in order to prevent Russia from becoming a threat.<br />It seems that the september 11 attacks and the overwhelming Russian support of the US will provide that opportunity.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	RSCZM67H81HMP	0679760806	778351106	The Master and Margarita	Books	5	5	5	N	N	MASTERpiece	Just as that other great Russian literary genius Chekhov, Bulgakov was a doctor by profession.  His father was a theologian.  The combination endowed him with a deep knowledge of both disciplines and it shows in thsi excellent novel.<br />It's almost unfair to call this book a novel.  It is a sarchastic and ironic condemnation of Stalinist Russia; indeed, the novel was forbidden until the quiet thaw that occurred for many years.  Bulgakov seems to borrow from Faust, the New Testament and Dante's divine comedy as the devil and his entourage of a witch and a cat who loves chess and vodka visit Moscow.  Their visit is welcomed by a writer(master) and his helper (Margarita).  The 'Master' is writing a novel about Pontius Pilate and Margarita visits the depths of hell on his behalf.  In the background of this almost mythological tale, the novel provides an excellent account of Soviet life in the 1930's.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R3HMQ0KUP3A6LB	0500018847	707375654	The Doctors of Revolution: 19th-Century Thinkers Who Changed the World	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Definitive Study of the Period	At 1200 pgs, this book is very long and I do not pretend to have read it all.  Nontheless, you don't have to read it all to enjoy it.  Chapters are self emcosed books in themselves that encapsulate the history and thought of a particualr period.  The book analyses the development of refolutionary political thinking in the 19th century up to the Russian Revolution.  nationalists, Socialists and Anarchists represent only a fraction of the study.  There are single chapters devoted to Marx and Bakunin (my favorite) as well as other major and minor contemporary thinkers.  It's certainly an excellent reference work.  I don't reccomend it, however, for light night time reading.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R3TJICY0QPBT3Q	1556521855	209380477	Letters from a War Zone	Books	1	9	50	N	N	Go where no man has gone before (or wants to go)	I admit that I did not read this book in its entirety.  I had some gastro-intestinal problems that I feared might escalate to produce a rather embarassing situation in the library. Besides who needs the  expense for dry-cleaning a cashmere sport-jacket?  I hope that most women will reject this dangerous endictment of men. I fear that if the majority of women felt as Dworkin does, the human race might come to a standstill.  Her views are as dangerous as the Islamic radical views that have damaged the Middle East.  Books like this can be tolerated so long as they have limited appeal. Therefore, in order to ensure that those who think like Dworkin receive the ridicule they must want, if this book is any indication. I encourage all sane men and women to speak out and give this book the review it deserves.  I would never advocate censorship, and ms. Dworkin can rant all she wants. However, we should feel free to ridicule and stress the danger and folly of Dworkin's 'war zone'.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R1TZF79VQWVBUW	0192862103	662392178	Predictions: Thirty Great Minds on the Future (Popular Science)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	I predict you might not like this book very much	When I saw the list of eminent minds that contributed to this volume in the index, I bought the book without further scrutiny.  However, I was disappointed by most of the contributions.  It seems the experts chose to save their best ideas for their own individual works.  I enjoyed Umberto Eco, who always entertains doubts, Chomsky, Galbraith, Singer, Zizek and Dawkins.  I found Achebe, Dworkin (particularly annoying), and Amartya sen to be repeating the same politically correct diatribes as always and lacking in real depth.  The book is valuable, however, as a guide to seeking further understanding the ideas of the contributors.  It provides bibliographies and biographies for each thinker. However, I suggest you look this up as brief refernce and then go out and buy the books  from the thinkers you like.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R13DQJXPJOLEI	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Account of Central Asian History &amp; Politics	I admit that given the popularity of thei book, I approached it with a bit of diffidence and expected to find an exagerated analysis of the reality of Middle east and Central Asian politics. I was, happily, wrong.  This is in fact a very clear account of the Taliban's rise to power and the transformation of Afghanistan into a base for the propagation of terrorism.  Oil and gas interests are also described to illustrate America's duplicitous relationship with the Taliban; courted for access to oil pipelines and vilified for their radical Islamic attitudes.<br />I find that this book also serves as an excellent complimentary text for the contemporary history of Saudi Arabia and the Arab world, egypt and Algeria in particular.  rashid shows how the end of the Soviet-Afghan war is directly tied to the escalation of domestic, islamist, violence in thsoe countries since 1990.<br />The book is also easy to read.	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R2SXF5GXM1OZN4	0140267735	485659651	Between Heaven and Hell: The Story of as Thousand Years of Artistic Life in Russia	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Intersting Perspective on a Great Nation	Bruce Lincoln has chosen a very apt title to describe Russian history and culture.  On one hand Russia has been plagued with an often violent history and tyrannical rulers.  On the other Russians have adapted to the cultures of their invaders and the cultures they absorbed through their own invasions.  This process has enabled Russians to develop an amazing cultural and intellectual heritage that should be envied by the entire world.  I bought this book to help me understand Russian music - which I find to be among the most beautiful ever written - and film for a research project on Eisenstein.  I found the approach very useful in understanding a this great film director given the political nature / and purpose of his films.  However, the book will enlighten your understanding of the 19th century literary greats Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, and particularly Gogol.<br />It is suitable for the expert of Russian studies as well as the novice - so long as you can appreciate great art as well as the failures and the achievements of man.  Ochin Khorosho	2001-11-21
US	42310170	R3V42350KHXMG0	0813015855	105768409	Libya's Qaddafi: The Politics of Contradiction	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An Informative Account of Ghadfi's Rule and idiosynchrasies	Mansour El-Kikhia provides a critical and entertaining account of the 'unique' and flawed political system that Ghadafi has instituted in Libya.  I found it balanced and very relevant.  This system has produced some interesting, if puzzling, results in the course of its implementation that clearly demonstrate its shortcomings and its proclivity to suffer from excessive zeal .<br />El-Kihia shows how Qadhafi has concentrated power to the provinces where the Colonel's extended family members wield important posts in the army and provincial government. The concept of a formal head of state has also been revised in favor of designating an official leader.  El-Kikhia also suggests that there has been a concerted effort to diminish the influence of  technocrats and educated personnel, who have been instrumental in ceating the institutions to manage the oil economy and important political negotiations with the outside world, in favor of the ideologues of the revolutionary cadres . Certainly this is in accordance with the pattern of power distribution that has prevailed in Libya since the al-Fatah revolution.<br />There are also accounts of the decline of culture and eductaion as a result of Qadhafi's policies and the profusion of ideology in all aspects of daily life.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3OAFDQZ346MSU	188292634X	339537917	Plagues of the Mind: The New Epidemic of False Knowledge	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Good Vaccine	Plagues of the Mind could be considered to be a successor to Bloom's very popular 'The Closing of the American Mind'. Indeed, Thornton targets specific examples of what he calls 'false knowledge' by exposing the the absurdity of what currently passes for wisdom in popular culture. Thornton is keen to de-mistify ideas about the Noble Savage and the, too often,unexamined, notions of amerindian cultures' supposed symbiotic and harmonious relationship with the environment. He also presents an overview of eco-feminist theories and the increasing popularity of such concepts as the pre Indo European cult of the Goddess. By analyzing these myths, Thornton shows the dangers of accepting these myths as knowledge, particularly as both have been receiving a dangerous amount of attention in academic and powerful circles. Thornton teaches comparative literature and his critiques are full of interesting references. His book is sometimes pedantic and sometimes funny (I appreciated someone finally attacking the myths implied in disney's Pocahontas and Lion King) but in the end it is a worthwhile read. i would have prefered less nalysis of the Goddess myth and more on other more pervasisve feminist and environmental fantasies.  The book is ultimately a call for greater common sense and more critical analysis of received truths. It is well worth reading and you will enjoy it as a complement to books like Fashionable Nonsense and the Skeptical Environmentalist	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R1QTQFU3EYYFMU	0679779175	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Consolation of a Good Book	I learned that Alain de Botton writes beautifully from his How Proust Can Save Your Life. de Botton is clearly fascinated by philosophy and its therapeutic powers.  Mind you thsi is no self-help guide.  Or if it is, It's a thinking person's guide.<br />Philosophers are often considered to offer only abstract diatribes with little to tell us about how to live. Nonetheless, de Botton has identified a few philosophers who explain much about daily life, whtehr or not their efforts to do so were deliberate and these philosophers constitute the thrust of the book.<br />Arthur Schopenhauer, a pessimistic 19th century German philosopher, offers expert advice on love. Not so much Romantic love but more a biological one. If you're miserable in love blame biology says Schopenauer. We fall in love because love is the biological force that gets us to settle down and have children. de Botton also brings the ancient Greek philosophers in question with Epicurus. Already 2000 years ago Epicurus argued against what we now call consumerism - he would have been appalled at the proliferation of slef help, management guides, and customer service books - and suggested that we usually acquire things in order to supplant other.<br />De Botton' seems to focus his arguments around the French 17th century essayist Montaigne whom he appreciates for his wisdom, charm and sanity.<br />Hopefully, philosophy will make a come back and with books such as this one it has a very good chance.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3B7TR8W0PMGS9	0814328792	581504672	Mythologies of Violence in Postmodern Media (Contemporary Approaches to Film and Media Series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A fascinating and reasoned critique of media violence	Contemporary media criticism, according to Gregory Sharrett removes itself from an analysis of society's activities and focuses only on lived experience as text or discourse.  It seems as if criticism is concerned with the sole purpose of demonstrating the degree to which media violence alone is responsible for producing violent social behavior neglecting arguments related to political economy, sociology or history.<br />The apolitical nature of violence in contemporary film supports the idea that visual violence is an end in itself and that it is being exploited.  However, modern Western society itself has become more fragmented and is characterized by flagrant individualism.  Ultimately, most contemporary film violence does little more than to reflect current values.  It fails to offer alternatives in the same way as the Western political spectrum has become essentially monolithic.  In a way, modern violent cinema reflects Francis Fukuyama's famous remark - and title of his bestseller - ` the end of history', that was intended to illustrate that the collapse of Communism in the early 90's left society with only one model, the Western capitalist one, for success.  Ideologies, alternative constructs are bound for failure.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3K7E1RKI06QOR	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	5	23	43	N	N	Overdue Sanity in the Environmental Debate	The Birkenstock wearing crowd should get nervous.  It's time to buy some nice shoes and forego the toe cheese exhibition.<br />Finally a book - and one written by an environmentalist - that expose the hype that sorrounds important environmenatl problems and exposes those environmentalists who dedicate themselves to generating panic and concealing the truth. It seems the only opinion people are allowed to entertain about the world is that the world is on a fast road to disaster. This gloomy prediction is sheepishly pronounced all over the planet in all media.  Voices of sanity are silenced. The author is (or was) a card carrying member of Geenpeace - is generally a 'leftist'- and he sets out to evaluate the world's leading environmental pressure groups and the evidence they provide. In the process he finds that the evidence is falsified and skewed to support the gloomy view and that scientific evidence, in fact, suggests that on all or most indicators the world has improved in the last decades. The evidence is well examined and documented. he finds fault with the Kyoto agreement and entertains serious doubts about global warming and de-forestation statistics (Lomborg should know as a professor of statistics).	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R2ZCC0CMSYFBXV	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	37	51	N	N	Refreshing	Given the controversy that sorrounded this book when it was published it's difficult not to approach thsi review with some concern.  Nonetheless, the book is excellent and has a very important story to tell. having being born in precisely the year that marked the ideological shift from Nazi Holocaust to Holocaust, as Finkelstein describes it, I have always known the latter interpretation and resulting political machinations of its main proponent Eli Weisel. Finkelstein describes the almost macchiavellian approach that helped to radically shift US policy in the Middle East that has ultimately contributed to continuing conflict.  I has no idea about the extent to which the Arab-Israeli question had greater opportunities of resolution  prior to 1967 adn the devious uses to which one of the greatest tragedies in human history has been manipulated.  Finkelstein's accusations and evidence is meticulously documented - to the point that it becomes distracting to read - adn draws from speeches, events and even an abundance of fabricated literature that emerged along with the ideological 'shift' of 1967.  This book has been widley praised and was , not surprisingly, criticized almost exclusively in the United States.  The evidence speaks for itself.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R17KYSE1KX35WU	087951924X	61193988	Sergei Eisenstein: A Life in Conflict	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The life of a great intellectual	Ronald Bergan shows that although Eisenstein was committed to the Bolshevik cause and contributed to its development, his films must, in no way, simply be dismissed as propaganda.  Eisenstein pioneering visual techniques, explorations in montage and lyrical representations have earned him an indisputable position as among film makers.<br />The culminating scenes in `Strike!', for instance, are built on an alternating sequence of shots that show soldiers chasing and shooting the strikers while a butcher is slitting the throat of farm animals in the slaughterhouse.  This allegorical interpretation of the Czar as a butcher wa not fully understood by a large portion of the viewing public, as Eisenstein himself witnessed when the film was shown in the rural areas throughout the country.  Indeed, many farmers were unable to grasp the metaphor of the slaughtered beasts as an association of the Czar as a criminal, a butcher, a murderer of innocents because for farmers the killing of an animal did not constitute a crime.<br />The rally to arms in `Alexander Nevsky' culminated in the battle on ice scene (which runs for almost a third of the film).  The scene, which Eisenstein duly prepared with the aid of sketches, appears as if inspired by the paintings of the Italian renaissance artist P. Uccello, as both show the violent clash of armor, horses, arrows, spears and iron.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3KMIKFEX23G5F	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Ditch the Gap	I found this book, however exagerated, to be a welcome releif from the ever growing orgy of marketing and conumeristic proganda that has invaded us. There is little that critical minds can do to resist it other than either write or read a book like No Logo.  Naomi Klein forcefully argues that people are pawns manipulated by the corporate establishment with advertising and global reach.  Brand names promise somethjing better than you had before and skew your choice in favor of the most marketed rather than the best product.  i don't agree entilrely with Klein'is claim that brands represent &quot;a fascist state where we all salute the logo&quot;. i still think some of us are smarter than that and are able to escape it, enjoying that felling of indiscretion that goes along with it.  But I find little to disagree with the notion that developing nations' workers are being abused and that branded goods are displacing excellent local products.  As an Italian I feel dismayed when neapolitan children, who have at their disposal the very best food the world has to offer, nag their poor parents- who'd rather eat an 'arancino' or crocche' or timballo di melenzane -<br />to go to mcDonald's. and what should Italians say about the mass-marketing and appropriation of the cappuccino by Starbucks and company? No one in America even knows what Cappuccino means and that it is only a breakfast drink which tradition holds should be served only until 11.00 am.  Did you know Russians learned about Pizza from Pizza Hut and not a piazzaiolo from Sorrento ? I thought we were immune.  But no sheep exist everywhere. Brands misappropriate and cheapen traditions.  the Market shoulkd not have such sway over culture.  No wonder teh French are afraid - and far better than Italians at resisting.  I'm not surprised that the freemarket at all costs mouthpiece 'The Economist' magazine ran an issue arguing in favor of branding and against Ms. Klein.  The only good thing in this consumeristic world is that it allows those people who do have real taste to show it without any effort.  It helps me separate the sheep form the humans.  call me a reactionary, but I'd rather be that than a gap poster boy.hat it allows those people who do have real taste to show it without any effort.  It helps me separate the sheep form the humans.  call me a reactionary, but I'd rather be that than a gap poster boy.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3D1WBXCLWRDY9	0814788092	491941595	The History of Saudi Arabia	Books	5	1	2	N	N	'The' history of Saudi Arabia	I've never come across a text on the History of Saudi Arabia as comprehensive as this one.  the author starts in the middle of the 18th century with an analysis of the forces that heleped to unite the house of Saud with the Wahhabi movement of Mouhammad abd-al-Wahhab. Vassiliev - who uses a wide variety of Arab, Russian and Western sources - skillfully analyszes economic and social developments.  He shows that there are many divisions in Saudi Arabia and that dissent is widespread in many fractions of society. There is an excellent account of the impact of the Iranian Revolution on the Shia of the oil rich Najd and the wahhabi purists who emerged violently on the world scene in an uprising in Mecca in 1979.  Saudi Arabia will become a primary focus of world attention as the conflict in Afghanistan ends and exposes the hitherto little revealed dissent and support for radical islamists that exists at many societal levels in Saudi Arabia. Ochin Khorosho, Dr. vassiliev. Tayyib Jiddan	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R3VS7UXQC7HBLN	0393319873	372191144	The Corrosion of Character: The Personal Consequences of Work in the New Capitalism	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Antidote to Who Moved my Cheese	Thankfully, after browsing in a bookstore through the huge and often intellectually bankrupt variety of management, success and business books the thoughtful reader may find solace by stumbling upon a book by Sennett.<br />In Corrosion of Character, Sennett exposes the reality on new capitalism and how its emphasis on flexibility has changed the nature of work. flexibility is being encouraged to fight the rigid bureaucracies of the past - and typical of public sector jobs. The 'Career'is a thing of the past.  Sennet shows how the emphasis on flexibility is affecting character as expressed by loyalty and committment and ultimately the decline of values and personal traits that are desirable in society.  This book is moving in that it shows the negative repercussions of the present - ideologically unchecked - renegade capitalism are eroding human character and life.  It is also a warning to those societies that have yet to leap in the totality of the Reagan-Thatcherite economy to resist making the leap.<br />You might find yourself humming the Internationale and appreciating the color red more after finishing this easy to read book.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R1J3PSTCIS3GU8	0679752552	916213869	Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A Fascinating - and vivid - Account of Crime and Punishment	I am not a big fan of Foucault; however, I was fascinated by Crime and Punishment. One of the principal ideas which Foucault discusses in Discipline &amp; Punish is that public executions have constituted as much a method of crime prevention as a public spectacle. I find that his ideas can be easily transposed to explain the public's fascination with media violence, wrestling, boxing and so on.<br /> As the ideas of the enlightenment spread throughout the 19th century executions and torture became less frequent and conducted ever further from the public spotlight while more `humane' methods of killing were also adopted.  No longer were prisoners dragged behind horses, crushed on cart wheels or had their limbs severed one by one. The Guillotine, firing squads and poisonous concoctions vastly accelerated the dying process and reduced physical pain.  Foucault does not in any way suggest that man is any more or less violent today than he was two centuries ago or 2000 years ago.  Nonetheless, he shows that the violence of justice has changed its modus operandi.<br />The West has seen the longest period of peace in history, economic conditions have improved for the majority and violence (physical and psychological) is not tolerated.  At the same time, criminals enjoy more rights privileges and there have been efforts to ensure humane treatment of prisoners.  Therefore, taking Foucault into consideration, violence in film is none other than the public's basic, and instinctively human, appetite for violence that always looks for ways of manifesting itself in accordance to society's norms.  If the public torture of a man whose bones were crushed or limbs cut off (in such a way that the victim could clearly see what was being done) or a public hanging constituted an popular occasion for spectacle in the 18th century, so then do graphic violent films appeal to people in the same way in the 21st century.<br />Therefore, in many ways, Foucault's ideas as expressed in Discipline and Punish support the notion that violence in contemporary cinema has a cathartic function.nd Punish support the notion that violence in contemporary cinema has a cathartic function.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R1FEHOMPNGCHD8	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Progress vs reactionaries	The title of the book may deceive some readers.  Barber does not refer to Jihad as the supposed 6th pillar of Islam and call for a holy war on the Big Mac and the infidel Ronald mcDonald who corrupts Muslims as a new prophet who revelas his message in happy meal boxes. No. This book uses Jihad as a metaphor for reactinary movements that are looking ever more inward to their traditional cultural and tribal structures to fight the globalization process symbolized the world over by Mcdonalds.  In short: Consumerism vs. Religious and Tribal revivalism.  let's hope the world doesn't choose any of these options on the menu.  The book is also an analysis of the new post cold war order and the anarchy that seems to be spreading.  It's somewhat dated as it exagerates the threat from Russia, which is steadily improving and has become a staunch ally of the West almost to the point of joining NATO, while not emphasizing enough the threat of fundamentalism from the east and religious revivalism everywhere. I enjoyed it however.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	RODVN9F38S788	0393316734	129219535	Commodify Your Dissent: Salvos from the Baffler	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Welcome Cannon - No Bobos in Paradise	Commodify your Dissent is a collection of essays from the Baffler magazine.  The essays are social critiques of Mass Media and corporate and consumer culture.  They have the sarchastic and hilarious style of H.L. Mencken and, like the latter's work, they end up exposing many false 'truths'. The quality of the writing is excellent, i became extremely envious.  My favorite section was The Culture of Business and the critique of businees literature. there are also critiques of commercial grunge music, packaging of artists (one of my favorite essays, exposes pretentious writing for what it is), elites and youth consumerism.  You'll learn and laugh. I enjoyed this book so much that I bouught other titles from Thomas Frank and subscribed to the Baffler.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R260TI7ZU2FA0J	0801485355	518610695	Libya since Independence: Oil and State-building	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The best Political Economy Analysis of Libya	I lived in Libya for two years and worked as a UNDP officer there.  Having had first hand knowledge of this country I have found few books better than Vandewalle's Libya since Independence. Not only is it an informative text about Libya's socio-economic development it is also a study of the distributive State and the very negative consequences that oil wealth can generate if mishandled.  Vandewalle deals with Libya since its independence in 1949 and the political, social and economic transformation that occurred from then to the present.  The text notes that the regime that was established as a result of the 1969 revolution has made great efforts to distribute the wealth accumulated from oil production among the population while promoting large scale development projects in infrastructure, education and ISI industrial development.  By far the largest single development effort has been the multi-billion dollar Great Man Made River (GMMR) project designed to facilitate irrigation for agricultural production along the Libyan coastline.  According to the UNDP adequate standards of living have existed for the majority of the population as a result of an extensive program of welfare spending that has included the provision of state provided basic services and subsidies for many consumer products.<br />  Although significant, Libya's development, both before and after the Fatih Revolution, has been almost entirely patronized by the state.  Whereas the government intervened in all sectors of the economy, including import and distribution, there has recently been an effort to transfer some of that responsibility to the private sector.  The sharp decline of crude oil prices in the mid 1980's hurt the State's distributive capacity and made it necessary to curtail spending and adopt a measure of economic reforms to stimulate greater private sector involvement in the economy.  However, the reforms have only effectively served to retract the distributive network welfare system of subsidies and services that had been one the Government's principal sources of legitimacy with the population, while economic liberalization has not contributed to the creation of a viable and productive private sector.  The failure of these reforms has highlighted the institutional shortcomings of the regime that enacted them.subsidies and services that had been one the Government's principal sources of legitimacy with the population, while economic liberalization has not contributed to the creation of a viable and productive private sector.  The failure of these reforms has highlighted the institutional shortcomings of the regime that enacted them.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R115MNJPB9WDWU	046502615X	855528029	The Mind Of The Ceo: The World's Business Leaders Talk About Leadership, Responsibility The Future Of The Corporation, And What Keeps Them Up At Night	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Mindless CEO is more like it	Somehow a lot of books get published that contain at best useless advice and at worse propaganda that helps to perpetuate the gross inequalities of the American (and evr more so Global) corporate experience. As you read this review, please note that I'm not one of those fanatical, badly dressed, no-taste anti-globalization vandals.<br />The Mind of the CEO is shallow and this despite the fact that its author, Jeffrey Garten is the dean of the Yale School of management (I suppose i can kiss goodbye to my application for a Yale MBA).  At the same time it is telling that much of the obtuse thinking that has invaded management circles in recent decades has roots in the very academic circles that are supposed to enlighten it with something deeper.  Gartner interviews 40 of the world's 'top' (you'll gain a renewed appreciation of 'Bottom'when you read what 'top' is) to find out what makes their companies successful. Jack welch (who proves my point further with his new biographical masterpiece Jack), Jurgen Schrempp - an odd choice given his fiasco at Chrysler -, Andy Grove of Intel and other luminaries.  The interviws or ' chats' only show how muddy corporate thinking is.  Strategy is the most invoked word and none of the 40 stars says anything remotely different from each other. Some of the brilliant nuggets include &quot;Consumers are going to want choices that make sense to them&quot;. &quot;The next big step of going global is goping to be be going local&quot;.  I only wish the CEO's would finally learn where they have to go.  Someone should show them the way.<br />The ultimate and inadvertent message of the book is that CEO's have no more clues about the 'marketplace' than the rest of us and even less about innovations in management thinking.  beware the next management technique, mission statement and seminar.<br />Unfortunately, being unoriginal and offering repackaged stale solutions earns CEO's several dollars and hero status.	2001-11-20
US	42310170	R1QY0MI2U4W1MY	0520200292	675550109	Understanding Relativity: A Simplified Approach to Einstein's Theories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Democratizing relativity	Not only does this excellent text clearly explain Einstein's theories by offering a less numeri-centric study but it is by no means a watered down study either.  The challenge of relativity is left to the ideas and not the equations--though the author does not shy away from explaining the mathematics of the theory with equations and diagrams.  The book is also logically organized to facilitate understanding of the sequence of phenomena and research that guided Einstein. If all physics texts were like this one, there would be far more scientists around.	2001-11-16
US	42310170	R23IEQJUFXDXDL	0802150594	732933939	Heart of a Dog	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Even a dog can join the party	This novel (a bit like Metamorphosis by Kafka) combines both an understanding of the turmoil of Russian society just after the Revolution of 1917 and enough humor to make you laugh well after you've put the book down.  it's really hilarious. perhaps similar to metamorphosis, a stray dog is picked up by a famous scientis and given human organs.  the dog takes on a semi-human appearance and learns to speak.  In a sarchastic take on the how revolutions tend to fear thinking and critical minds, Bulgakov shows how easily mediocrity can raise your station in life in such an ideological climate. the 'Dog' becomes a party member and even manages to get the scientis in trouble with the authorities, while acquiring the self-importance of little minds.  You don't have to be a student of ethics to appreciate this novel.  just think of your supervisor and how he got to the top.  This book is a far better analysis of 'climbing the ladder' than many specialized management books.By the way, to better appreciate the humor, it helps to know that many Russians took odd names after the revolution to honor the concept of the new man that was being inaugurated with by socialism.  I've heard of gilrs being named Tractorina (yes after a tractor, symbol of modernized agricultural renewal).  Just remember this point when you read what the man-dog decides to call himself.	2001-11-15
US	42310170	R3KHAQTLN0HVH6	0140280197	184172254	The 48 Laws of Power	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Macchiavelli &amp; Szen-Tsu - updated	I really enjoyed reading this book. It's informative and very entertaining. Having said that, I doubt the truly powerful ever had to read a book about it.  Some powerful people like Cardinal Mazarin, on the other hand, did write books about means to obtain power. Some bits of the 48 laws are valauble and the book may, in a few cases, actually serve as a guide.  However, the really nice thing about 'Power' is the actual reading.  Each law is an interesting historical anectode that also happens to illuminate common aspects of human personality.  The book draws many of its 'laws' form the court of Louis XIV , ming China, and the interesting and devious charlatans that swindled millions at the turn of the century and the renaissance.  The authors end their book with the fitting warning that the powerful are careful about following advice blindly.  It's a healthy reminder to steer away from self proclaimed gurus and self-help, Oprah-book-of-the-month, fast buck books that have invaded the bookstores.	2001-11-15
US	42310170	R2CYITLF8XMLJY	0300087152	382088109	Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The end justifies the means	Glover describes the ethical and moral absues of the 20th century by finding common themes - rather than chronological ones - to describe the process through which so many crimes were committed.  Ideology and blind faithfulness to ideas are major culprits in the century borne out of the enlightenment.  In some ways he approahes the explanations of the Frankfurt School (Adorno, Horkheimer) in the analysis of reaso extending beyond the borders of the humane.  There are also sevarl quotations from important writers and social critics of the century.  I find the selections from Solzhenitsyn most compelling, not least because his Gulag archipelago signalled to the Western European maoists and communists that scientific human organization theories are dangerous.  I also recommend reckless Minds by Mark Lilla, who examines similar ideas, though, from the point of view of the intellectuals that too often were blinded by the rationality of the ideas of tyrants.  excellent and worthwhile book.	2001-11-15
US	42310170	RI768LMQB89NC	0393020258	847218561	The Tragedy of Great Power Politics	Books	5	14	22	N	N	Move over Fukuyama ! History is still here	Finally a realistic account of world politics that shuns the overly optimistic view tha followed the end of the Cold War. Francis Fukuyama's notion of the 'end of history' is scrutinized and refuted in this book. World Government of nation States, market democracies everywhere ? Peace on earth, Flying elephants ? None of that false optimistic mumbo-jumbo of globalization enthusiasts. No, the world remains darwinian, man hasn't changed at all and the power of states will persist.<br />It's an excellent complementary read to the equally good 'The Coming Anarchy' by Robert Kaplan.	2001-11-13
US	42310170	R38RTAYLDS4WLO	0446528382	344910126	Jack: Straight from the Gut	Books	1	11	12	N	N	Almost as good as "Who Moved my Cheese"	I already admire N. Taleb's 'Fooled by Randomness' for illustrating the often indirect proportion of wealth to intelligence.  My consideration for him and that book has doubled since I came across Jack.  It's truly a wonder how someone with the managerial reputation of Jack Welch could write suich a book as this. It is badly written and is filled with ridiculous anectodes about football and golf - almost as much golf as that other classic business treatise ' Raving Fans'. Your mind wonders whether you're reading Joe Montana's or Nick Price 's biography.  You'll also be fascinated and blown away by details of several meetings (if I talked like that at meetings I'd have had even worse luck at jobs than I already have) and hotel conference centers in such exciting places as Cincinnati, Milwaukee and Boca Raton - though he does also visit India.  mr. Welch does not like Europeans much either because they prevent him from increasing his monopoly, although his right hand man wasthe very Italian Paolo fresco for many years.<br />The dilemma you face now is: Do I buy 'Jack' or 'Who moved my Cheese\\". it's a difficult choice which one will offer more jokes at parties ?  Which is better when you run out of toilet paper ?  Jack welch came to be known as Neutron Jack this book is 'electron Crap'. You want success in business?  Be greedy.	2001-11-13
US	42310170	RUGUO8Z8LNSYL	0940322765	121501835	The Reckless Mind: Intellectuals in Politics	Books	5	35	43	N	N	Beware ideologies	This is an excellent book. It is as easy to read as it is insightful. Lilla does not separate the personal lives of the intellectuals from their work and analyzes the dangerous mix of philosophy and politics. Starting from the example of Plato and the Republic Lilla shows the attempts of many philosophers to take up - and fail - politics. he does not separate their lives from their conceptions of the world nad the manner in which they were unable to separate the political from the ideological. se .I found the critiques of Heidegger and Schmitt very useful, but I was especially drawn to Foucault and Derrida. Not because the otehr intellectuals in questions are less interesting but because the latter have shaped the postmodern intellectual framework that we have just recently began to question. the conclusion is masterful and makes an excellent case to fear the philotyrannical intelelctual as Lilla terms it.  It is possible to read it in a weekend and I can find few books that offer such intellectual value for so little time.	2001-11-13
US	42310170	R3IA0BZ33T301P	0679409904	751067545	Nostromo (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The world hasn't changed	The crisis in Somalia, the genocide in Rwanda, why do so many well-intentioned development assistance efforts fail so miserably?  As America has been drawn in yet another asymmetric conflict with a collapsed state and Western governments are already discussing ways to implement democracy in order to prevent the conflict from escalating Conrad's timeless tale of idealism and greed suggests that changing the world is an almost impossible task. Many articulate magazine articles or specialized books have attempted to explain how a series favorable trade, free markets and respect for human rights can result in long term positive change. Yet, despite the abundance of information we're still left wondering; logical arguments and historical accounts have proved insufficient in satisfying the need to understand why the development process is so complicated. Although written in 1904, Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard represents Conrad's ultimate opinion of the world.  It's a long book, 465 pages in the Penguin Classic edition, but it's rich in observations on human nature as well as Conrad's typical lively landscape descriptions.  In the former regard, Nostromo is superior to Conrad's more famous novel Heart of Darkness as he tells the story of very believable characters that are familiar to most readers.	2001-11-13
US	42310170	R301BGOHRTB62Z	0195148037	849198348	The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Modern Islamic World (4 Volume Set)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Bravo, Mabruk !  Dr. Esposito	I just received my set of 4 volumes and already consulted it for an article I'm preparing.  I was surprised at the breadth of the articles and the references provided.  The information available in each article extends beyond the basic and lends itself easily to in-depth investigation.  A truly excellent work and well worth the expense.  For the Middle East Studies professional, analyst, academic, consultant this encyclopedia will be very useful.	2001-11-09
US	42310170	RDOM4XTHU84LK	0970330324	624566552	Islam Will Conquer All Other Religions And American Power Will Diminish : Read How Allah (God's) Prediction Will Soon Come To Pass	Books	2	53	57	N	N	Not as 'interesting' as the title	I ordered this book because I was intrigued as to how its authors were going to show that Islam will conquer America.  I thought it might add to my understanding of the Sept. 11 attacks or the huge Islamic proselytization process that has been occurring since the early 90's in Universities throughout North America.  (...)<br />But, No.  The book does not explain islam's victory over America at all.  It's a dull, if informative and even balanced at times, account of the mianstream schools of Islam, its evolution to the 20th century and its basic practices and beleifs.  The book even has a surprisingly candid account of Muhammad's human traits and deeds, including historical accounts of his involvement in enslaving and executing prisoners.  However, the crux of the book is an arithmetical proof of the divine origin of the Quran based on calculations involving the letters and words of certain passages.  Rather than proving the existence of God this section suggests that apologists for God are climbing on mirrors to prove his existence.  Again, nothing about America. If you like numerology, you may like this book...	2001-11-08
US	42310170	R28N8TC5U34QQW	0813324114	439704690	A Political Economy Of The Middle East 2E: Second Edition	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Essential and Excellent  textbook	I have read and used sevral books in my research on the Middle East.  I find this book to be the best to gain a bird's eye view of many social, political and economic problems in the region.  R &amp; W discuss problems of nation - building, state types and formation, competing ideologies, socio-economic crisis and oil politics (among other things).  It's an excellent place to start for serious approaches to the subject.  I have read both editions and look forward to future books form these authors.<br />I	2001-11-08
US	42310170	R18AGM15OLJ0EG	0520209273	304815566	Putting Islam to Work: Education, Politics, and Religious Transformation in Egypt (Comparative Studies on Muslim Societies)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Plausible Alternatives for Roots of Islamic Resurgence	By focusing on education, Starrett shows that political ands socio-economic issues alone are insufficient in explaining the rise of islamic revivalism. The combination of increased literacy and Islamic awareness made possible by the spread of public education, in which religion has played a principal role, and its functionalization to serve the purposes of social engineering has made Islam a matter of increasing socio-political concern.  The proliferation of Islamic affordable literature and media from official and private sector sources.  The scope of religious discourse among non-specialists has widened and the Islamic establishment no longer holds a monopoly on this debate which is presently characterized by a variety of viewpoints. Starrett speaks of a new Islam now taking shape in Egypt as a result of the mass proliferation of Islamic publications and spread of literacy and communications media.  Education's particular role in this process has been to create the demand for more religious information and from more sources as the religious discourse widens.	2001-11-06
US	42310170	R3G7PX0HDEFLEN	1850438285	193323031	Over-Stating the Arab State: Politics and Society in the Middle East	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Perhaps the definitive work on the Arab State	Overstating the Arab State is the ironic title that Nazih Ayubi has chosen for his 'state' centered and Gramscian informed study of the nature of the Arab State in terms of its bureaucratic and interventionist development.  The title also alludes to the overestimation of the actual power and strength of the Arab State.  Ayubi has suggested that Arab states have been wrongly categorized as 'strong'; whereas, they are weak in terms of their extractive capacity, institutional strength and ideology.<br /> A principal political argument of the book centers on the notion that the Arab State has not moved beyond the coercive and corporative stage to create a political system that enjoys the consensus of civil society and includes it as a basic component.  This is the kind of political strength that Gramsci categorized as hegemony considering its attainment to be the defining attribute of a Strong State. Within this definition of hegemony Ayubi has also understood a state's ability to reduce its involvement in the productive functions of the economy.<br />  According to Ayubi the Arab State rules on the basis of its monopoly of the coercive forces in society and violence that subjugate rather than complement society; thereby, it is better described as  fierce than strong.  Corporatism, or the domination of the institutions of the middle and working classes by the state in an attempt to create social and industrial harmony, has supplied the typical model of socio-political organization in the Arab world and applied to both monarchies and populist republics.  Overall, an Excellent work.  Ayubi died shortly after completing this book.	2001-11-06
US	42310170	R29DL504O7D3PO	0691008701	749132097	Muslim Politics	Books	4	8	12	N	N	A balanced account of the subject. Perhaps 'too nice'	In Muslim Politics Dale Eickelman and James Piscatori have studied the idea of a Political Islam from a broad perspective. The title of the book itself betrays its breadth as it suggests, through the use of the plural 'politics' and the adjective Muslim - practitioner of Islam - rather than Islam itself, that Islam is a dynamic and evolving set of beliefs that have varied in time and space. This suggests that there can be no single explanation to account for the rise of Muslim politics and that a multiple criteria must be used to analyze the phenomenon. The book presents a number of arguments in its six chapters with examples from all over the Islamic world and among these are Tradition, Objectification and Fragmentation.<br /> The authors challenge Modernization theory's contention that tradition is irreconcilable with social and political development and the idea that Islamic legal frameworks may not be altered as they have been conceived as a reflection of divine revelation. They also show that references to the Islamic past are used as rallying points or symbols from which to draw inspiration for change in the present.  My main concern and the reason I have not awarded a full 5 stars is that the authors seem to neglect or have chosen to ignore the very real violence that radical islamists  have caused.  No mention of Algeria -90-present, Egypt and the numerous terror attacks of the last decade, the mindless policies these groups often support, the Taliabn and a host of other less than ideal versions - at best - and downright abominable conditions that prevail as a result of many Muslim Political interpretations.	2001-11-06
US	42310170	R138RSYCMEYC9S	0679779159	698950156	How Proust Can Change Your Life	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Erudite and Entertaining, Truly A Beautiful Book	I will start out by saying I'm somewhat biased towrd the subject matter as proust is one of my favorite writers - 'philosophers' (peut -etre ?). Nontheless, compliments do no justice to this excellent book. It is possible to read it in a weekend, on a beach or in the library, yet the wisdom it contains will last a lifetime. As it examines peculiarites of Proust's life and character, as well as his famous novel &quot;In Search of Lost Time&quot;, De Botton distills the contents of the seven volumes to provide valuable advice on friendship, love, money, work and ultimately how to live a better life. Ulike self help books, &quot;How Proust Can Change your Life&quot; does not ask you to make lists of things to do, change your personality or tell you that &quot;if you can see it you can be it&quot;. Nor will you find quick solutions to complex issues like personal change and many of the associated buzzwords of most intellectually insulting guides like 'proactive', 'multitask', 'lifestyle' or even 'successful'. It will not tell you how to become rich. It merely asks you to examine and think about your life so that you may understand yourself better. It also shows how paying attention to minor details is the key to appreciating others, ourselves and the world. It is simply an excellent book. Unfortunately, too few will read it, but those few will have a rare privilege.	2001-11-05
US	42310170	R3VNO4P4P8IO2G	067104334X	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese: An Amazing Way to Deal With Change in Your Work and In Your Life	Books	1	17	21	N	N	This literary classic smells of Gorgonzola	My boss forced me and others to read this marvel of literature to pave the way for a new 'exciting' (why are management techniques always veiled in excitement?) policy at a luxury menswear store. It reflects his intelligence and character. I am not exagerating when I claim that this book embarasses its author and insults the reader with the most banal statements since Cathy Lee. The reason the cheese was moved is because it started to smell! Who cut the Cheese is what I asked when I finished this masterpiece. If you're thinking of having your employees read it, it's guaranteed to make them hate you and ridicule you. The subject of change requires thoughtful insight not childish tripe.	2001-11-05
US	42310170	R1DDFS75S78V3S	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Sad truth but entertaining book	I read this book in a single sitting because I could not put it down. Barbara Ehrenreich goes 'undercover' to experience for herself the working, and living conditions that many low-wage workers have to endure.  She notoces first hand how minimum wage (or slightly higher) paying jobs are incapable of sustaining adequate living needs. She also provides an exceptional account why it's so difficult for many people to rise above the lowest income levels despite their best efforts, showing how difficult it is for many of the workers she meets to rise above their income levels.  Ms. ehrenreich , a biologist and writer for prestigious magazines, becomes a waitress, a house cleaner, a cook, and a Wal-Mart clerk - among other jobs and describes these experinces with the appropriate rigor but also with humor. Readers will also enjoy Ehrenreich's fitting sarchasm and spite amidst the sadness. I particularly enjoyed the WalMart chapter full of insight on Sam's brainwashing Big Brother ways. After you read this book you''ll become far more conscious of what the person behind the counter, your waitress or your maid are really feeling when they smile and accept your order.	2001-11-05
US	42310170	R2CUJJXTRPZR8N	0312204078	508861703	Fashionable Nonsense: Postmodern Intellectuals' Abuse of Science	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Well needed return to reality	The physicists who wrote this book have set out to expose the folly of those social scientists and humanists who adopt the methods of mathematics and pure science in their work.  They target such luminaries - mostly form the French School - as Lacan, Kristeva and Latour and show that not only is their understanding of the mathematics they use dubious but that this very approach to psychoanalysis, sociology and literature is completely irrelevant.  In many cases Sokal and Brincmont - who often cite the original untranslated text - make very clear that the Lacans and Kristevas deliberately fail to even attempt to show or explain the connections they purport to suggest.<br />I found the book entertaining and, despite the subject matter, the authors do their best to explain to the non-scientific reader where and why the mathematical usage is fallacious.  I only hope that soon someone will show how fallacious it is to use mathematics to explain economics - econometric fantasies -, rational choice and sociology.  An Excellent book that will have you gasping in incredulity and laughing out loud.	2001-11-05
US	42310170	RAFV5I4MDHYZP	1587990717	866674811	Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in the Markets and in Life	Books	5	44	59	N	N	BE FOOLED NO MORE -  (by charlatans, anyway)	I normally dislike business books and approached this one with a slight diffidence. The title, nonetheless, seemed interesting. However, I soon became drawn into it and found its writer so brilliant as to become envious of his obvious ease at weaving excerpts of knoweldge acquired from many fields to produce such entertaining and insightful writing.  Apart from investing and finance the book really attempts to answer the question: are great men made by circumstances or are they born ?  I doubt this book will become a bestseller; it's simply too original and intellectual to attract the average minds that run business and finance. This book is about philosophy, science, psychology, history and literature as much as it is a useful guide to investment strategies - though I doubt Mr, Taleb would appreciate the last qualification. Those privileged enough to read it will share an amazing secret and advantage.<br />In short, I loved it.	2001-10-31
US	42310170	R2P6BWLO8CBX2Y	1859849296	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	5	16	34	N	N	A nun's true story	I had always suspected that the little nun of Calcutta had plenty to be ashamed of. After all it must take a real cynic to preach against contraception, promote a monotheistic (well almost)faith in a 'do ut des' fashion in a country such as India. and why tollerate suffering when she had the financial and political backing to build a top - notch medical facility instead of a waiting room for death. I also encourage this book to those who are diffident of religion, particularly in this time of fundamentalist challenges - and not only from dreaded Islam.<br />A worthwile, eye-opening and cathartic read. Enjoy and think.	2001-10-30
US	42310170	RZMAU06FW06DT	0688123163	854412109	Raving Fans: A Revolutionary Approach To Customer Service	Books	1	58	88	N	N	I'm not raving one bit	I felt compelled to review this book in order to shake off that feeling of intellectual abuse I got when I finished reading it.  As with so many 'it's so easy to change' manuals many of us do not approach these literary equivalents of junk food by ourselves.  Managers,supervisors and gurus find in such books the justification for their positions and like the faithful at the temple mount they really believe things are so simplistic and people so gullible.<br />Raving fans is what all customers should be is the general thesis of this book.  if you go out of your way to provide exceptional service customers will want to come back to your store.  Somehow golf gets thrown into this groundbreaking revelation - I thought that the author Kenneth Blanchard was going to announce that he received this message from GOd in 5 tablets. Of course as with all thse guides nothing is mentioned to the employer about the possibility that service does not improve all by itself and that a good salary and working conditions may induce a more positive work attitude. Certainly, many managers may even get more out of their staff if they avoid giving them books like these to read, or worse sending them to the seminar. A One star rating is one too many.	2001-10-30
US	42310170	R23SPXC82U1M9E	037570759X	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A surprisingly good book	I approached this book as a light analysis of devloping world politics, something to read at night before going to bed.  I was surprised at how well it is written and the scope of the topics, which include essays on Joseph Conrad and Edward Gibbon and how their works - despite their age - are still very relevant to  our own understanding of the modern world.  I was almost disappointed at how quickly I got through it and I think his ideas are especially worthwile now in trying to understand - if only in part - the divide between East and West.	2001-10-30
