US	42337084	R1CVD7UZRU20F3	0671024248	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Stephen King's version of Lord of the Flies.  Alright but not the real thing	Hearts in Atlantis is a series of interconnected novellas and short stories all focusing on a small group of similar characters and spanning from 1960 to 1999.  King successfully weaves these characters into the various stories, but still fars short in some areas.   <br /> <br />The first story is \\"Low Men in Yellow Coats,\\" which is the longest and by far the most poignant of the collection.  The story deals with Bobby Garfield and his widdowed mother, Liz, who live in an apartment building in Conneticuit.  Bobby and his mother don't get along well, but Bobby still has a rather happy childhood palling around with his best friends, \\"Sully\\" John Sullivan and Carol Gerber.  But Bobby's childhood is beginning to change when an old sourjourner by the name of Ted Brautigan moves into the upstairs apartment.  Ted becomes the father that Bobby never knew and teaches him about literature--particulary William Golding's Lord of the Flies.  But Ted is prone to blackouts and asks Bobby to look out for \\"low men in yellow coats\\" who are after Ted (supposively they have to do with the Dark Tower series, but I haven't read any of those).  Although Ted is Bobby's friend, he causes Bobby to see the dark side of human nature, an idea that catalyzes the end of Bobby's childhood.  This story is the basis from which all of the other stories stem and has the best characterization and plot. <br /> <br />The second story \\"Hearts in Atlantis\\" is told by Pete Riley, a student at the University of Maine that is in danger of flunking out on account of his addiction to the card game hearts.  Carol Gerber reappears as a love interest for Pete and becomes an aspiring activist.  This story presents portents of the activist movements of the \\"hippies\\" to protest the war.  Overall, I found this story a bit mawkish because it had too much card playing in it and never really drove the nail in about the whole \\"hippie\\" movement. <br /> <br />The next two stories are shorter and rather inchoate.  The thirdstory, \\"Blind Willie\\" is undoubtly the weakest in the book.  It deals with Willie Shearman, who made a minor appearance in \\"Low Men...\\" and his life after serving in Vietnam.  Apparently, Willie is inveigling money by dressing up as a washed out Vet and panhandling.  Needless to say, I didn't get the point.  The fourth story \\"Why Were in Vietnam\\" deals with \\"Sully\\" John Sullivan and his flashback to Vietnam.  Although I did like parts of this story, ultimately I felt that King's descriptions of Vietnam were feigned and only put into the book because he could not write a book about the 60s without mentioning it. <br /> <br />The final story, \\"Heavenly Shades of Night are Falling,\\" deals with Bobby again, is short, and wraps up the book quite well. <br /> <br />The overall theme of Hearts in Atlantis, is the loss of childhood innocence which is experienced by all of the main characters in one way or another.  To illustrate this theme, King alludes to Goldings' Lord of the Flies frequently throughout the stories.  For example, Bobby has a dream where the characters from the novel are hunting his mother, and one of Sully's flashbacks deals with a soldier saying that he was going to mount a Vietminese woman's head on a stick.  King has said that he wished that he had written written Lord of the Flies, and this is his version of it.  But in this version, the boys from the island have grown up and the jungle is Vietnam.  King does do a good job of incorporating that novel into his own work, but he does it to such a degree that anyone who has not read Lord of the Flies will be lost, and Hearts in Atlantis will ruin the ending of that book.   <br /> <br />Overall, King steps out of his horror-comfort zone for this book.  It is good, but not great.  It is a little too similar to It in its themes, but not as well crafted.  And the metaphor of America as Atlantis sinking from the weigh of the sixities didn't really seem to stick with me.  It seems that King has written a book that some literary critics may be interested in analysing, but may be a bit insipid for his horror fan-base.  Pick this book up if you like Lord of the Flies and other such themes or are one of those people who want to read everything that King has written. Sorry, but no matter how hard you try, you cannot re-write Lord of the Flies.  But Hearts in Atlantis is not a bad attempt.	2005-07-23
US	42337084	R2AEE5F8I973AN	0716744643	164630188	Quantitative Chemical Analysis, Sixth Edition	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Get Ready for Titrations!	Quantitative Chemical Analysis is a text intended for the first semester of Analytical Chemistry, which is known as Quantitative Analysis at my school. It is a course that is usually required for chemistry, chemical engineering, and biochemistry majors, as well as chemistry minors. This course follows second semeter general chemistry and broadens on the topics covered in that course. It is heavily based on calculations, however the calculations do not require any mathematics beyond basic algebra but do require extensive use of the quadratic formula for equilibrium problems.  <br /> <br />The book is not visually very impressive because it is in black and white with orange highlights, but this is understandable considering the small market for a text like this one. Chapters 0 - 5 of the text cover introductory material like stoicmetry, error, and statistics, and probably will not be covered in class. Chapters 7 - 25 are the heart of the material for most Quant classes. These chapters can be grouped into a few categories: chemical equilibrium, titrations, electrochemistry, and instrumental techniques such as chromatography and spectrophotometry. The book treats these subjects well and devotes enough material to specific concepts to make the information clear to the reader. Many useful examples and problems are given, and the excellent solutions manuel contains detailed answers to ALL of the problems in the text book. Harris also gives several shortcuts for solving problems. In particular, his explanation of the streamline equation for titration problems was very useful and made these problems much less tedious. He also includes information about topics of interest to biochemistry, and features textboxes about the applications of analytical procedures. I'd say that this is a great text for analytical chemistry.  <br /> <br />The main problem with a first semester analytical chemistry class is not that the problems are very difficult, it is that they are VERY tedious. This is obvious because in this book there are four chapters on chemical equilibrium and another four on titrations. Some instrumental techniques may require less calculations, but most probably will not be covered in the first semester other than chromatography and this is not the most interesting subject. The professor that taught my class even implied that titrations and such were tedious and not what real analytical chemists do for a living. My advice for a class such as this is to expose yourself to as many problems as possible. The problems in this text are helpful but you have to do them and understand how you worked them. Just do the problems, then do them over again, then it you need to, do them once more. If you follow this advice, such a course should not be too difficult. But if you do not do the problems then you will be completely lost and it will only be your own fault.  <br />	2005-07-17
US	42337084	RZ0CGPSCG5Y63	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Better than the Da Vinci code in some parts	In Angels and Demons, Dan Brown introduces the Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon.  While on a tour of Italy, Langdon is called into an investigation of the murder of a physicist.  The murderer left a brand on the body with the ambigram (writing able to be read rightside up or upside down) 'Illumanati', the name of ancient cult that Langdon has studied.  The murder also abscounded with a substance called anti-matter, which has the ability to level a couple of city blocks.  The murderer hid the anti-matter somewhere in the Vatican and, worse yet, has also kidnapped several cardinals in the mist of a papal election.  With the help of the physicist's daughter, Vittoria, Langdon travels to Rome to try to stop the destruction by solving clues dealing with artwork in order to try to locate the anti-matter before it is too late. <br /> <br />Angels and Demons is the first appearance of Robert Langdon, who later appears in the Da Vinci code.  Langdon is an Indiana Jonesque professor/adventure who uses his knowledge and wits to solve byzantine puzzles.  In this novel, Dan Brown first displays his ability for thrilling writing and erudite knowledge of art history.  I found it impressive that all of the artwork and buildings mentioned in the book actually exist and that many fans have even devoted websites to them and the book on the internet.  It is interesting to read the book and then look up the actual works and discover that they as just as you imagined them. <br /> <br />In terms of plot, Angels and Demons is similar to its sequel, The Da Vinci Code because books deal with a grisly murder, a secret society, clues hidden in artwork, and Christianity.  However, I found the plot of Angels and Demons to be better fleshed-out than that of The Da Vinci code.  The sexual tension better Langdon and Vittoria was better than that between he and Sophia, the clues were crisp and never vapid (unlike the cryptex within the crytex in the Da Vinci code), and the plot twists were more surprizing.  Finally, in my opinion, the ending of Angels and Demons was much better than the conclusion of the Da Vinci code.  Not that the Da Vinci code was not a very good book, but Angels and Demons just has a stronger storyline. <br /> <br />If you have read the Da Vinci Code, pick up Angels and Demons because it is just as good if not better.  It is true that Brown has become formulaic in his writing, but I think that this approach is somewhat of a good thing.  He has started an adventure series that hopefully will have many more installments in the years to come.  He is a great novelist of intelligent adventure.	2005-07-15
US	42337084	R3053OWS4Z4526	0072846119	605734258	Molecular Biology	Books	3	18	23	N	N	Difficult to Understand and too much experimental data	I used this textbook for an undergraduate capstone class in molecular biology.  The book is divided into eight main parts: Introduction, Methods in Molecular Biology, Transcription in Prokaryotes, Transcription in Eukaryotes, Posttranscriptional Events, Translation, and Genomes.  The book is very detailed in its explanations of molecular processes and this makes it difficult to comprehend.  Often, I would read a few pages and understand very little of what I read.  I found that I learned more if I listened closely in class and only refered to the book for details, which is what I would suggest.  Also my class focused mostly on problem based learning in molecular biology and less on memorizing molecular details.  This book contains very few problems so my professor made up his own questions that he gave us and they were more helpful. <br /> <br />Another problem that I had with this book is that it contains probably too much experimental information.  Almost every science textbook contains a little information about important discovers, but usually a little information is all that is needed.  This book gives detailed descriptions of experiments that were used to discover principles of molecular biology, and I think that most and unnessary and only distract the student in what is already a confusing textbook.  I understand that Dr. Weaver's aim was to introduce the experimental aspects of the subject, but I think he went a little overboard.  Since this is an introductory textbook, primary principles should be focused on and specific experiments should be limited and should be found in side text-boxes instead of in the body of the text.  That way, the student can read the experiments only if he or she is interested instead of having them interupt the subject matter at hand, which commonly occurs in the this textbook. <br /> <br />Regardless to say, I did not use this book to study from as much as I use most of my science books.  Instead, I focused more on my professor's notes and questions and only referred to the book for key concepts.  The book is not bad for key concepts and does contain and number of useful figures.  Yet I would not recommend trying to read a chapter straight though; it is not worth it.  Study the key ideas and figures instead.  The remainder of the information is, in my opinion, a little advanced for an introductory class--although this book is intended for such a class--and way too wordy.	2005-05-15
US	42337084	R52HZRU0C90M3	0716797860	246964921	Quantative Chemical Analysis, Sixth Edition  & Solutions Manual	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Get Ready for Titrations!	Quantitative Chemical Analysis is a text intended for the first semester of Analytical Chemistry, which is known as Quantitative Analysis at my school.  It is a course that is usually required for chemistry, chemical engineering, and biochemistry majors, as well as chemistry minors.  This course follows second semeter general chemistry and broadens on the topics covered in that course.  It is heavily based on calculations, however the calculations do not require any mathematics beyond basic algebra but do require extensive use of the quadratic formula for equilibrium problems.   <br /> <br />The book is not visually very impressive because it is in black and white with orange highlights, but this is understandable considering the small market for a text like this one.  Chapters 0 - 5 of the text cover introductory material like stoicmetry, error, and statistics, and probably will not be covered in class.  Chapters 7 - 25 are the heart of the material for most Quant classes.  These chapters can be grouped into a few categories: chemical equilibrium, titrations, electrochemistry, and instrumental techniques such as chromatography and spectrophotometry.  The book treats these subjects well and devotes enough material to specific concepts to make the information clear to the reader.  Many useful examples and problems are given, and the excellent solutions manuel contains detailed answers to ALL of the problems in the text book.  Harris also gives several shortcuts for solving problems.  In particular, his explanation of the streamline equation for titration problems was very useful and made these problems much less tedious.  He also includes information about topics of interest to biochemistry, and features textboxes about the applications of analytical procedures.  I'd say that this is a great text for analytical chemistry. <br /> <br />The main problem with a first semester analytical chemistry class is not that the problems are very difficult, it is that they are VERY tedious.  This is obvious because in this book there are four chapters on chemical equilibrium and another four on titrations.  Some instrumental techniques may require less calculations, but most probably will not be covered in the first semester other than chromatography and this is not the most interesting subject.  The professor that taught my class even implied that titrations and such were tedious and not what real analytical chemists do for a living.  My advice for a class such as this is to expose yourself to as many problems as possible.  The problems in this text are helpful but you have to do them and understand how you worked them. Just do the problems, then do them over again, then it you need to, do them once more.  If you follow this advice, such a course should not be too difficult.  But if you do not do the problems then you will be completely lost and it will only be your own fault.   <br /> <br />	2005-05-14
US	42337084	R2OBXYLKU4R1UH	0375415467	801888719	DNA: The Secret of Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Book about DNA and its role in society	DNA: The Secret of Life presents an overview of the development of genetics over the last hundred years or so and is written by none other than James D. Watson himself (corecepient of the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine for the determination of the chemical structure of DNA).  Watson traces the roots of DNA and it role in science, medicine, business, and ethics.  He begins his story with Mendel and then the eugenics movement (a rather racist \\"pseudo-scientific\\" field).  Watson continues with his involvement in deciphering the structure of DNA and his later work on RNA.  Further chapters focus on the implications of genetically altered foods, on how numerous start up genetic corporations have profited from patenting genes used to produce disease fighting drugs, about how DNA fingerprinting can be used to both solve crime and identify previously unidentifiable bodies, and how researchers have used genetics to fight devastating disease like Huntington's disease.  The final chapters of the book deal with current issuses in genetics such as funding for research, ethical issuses involving unborn children with inheritable diseases, and a few words on stem cells and cloning. <br /> <br />In some sense, this book is the \\"untold history of genetics.\\"  It brings to light the tiredless work of numerous scientists that have shaped genetics into the fascinating field that it is today.  I found it interesting that such a myriad group of biologists, biochemists, chemists, and physicists jumped on the DNA bandwagon and discovered so much about this little chemical.  I found it particularly interesting because I read this book after already having taken a genetics class in college.  But do not be deferred if you have no scientific background whatsoever.  The book is fully acessable and intended for anyone even remotely interested in DNA.  While it helps to have knowledge of genetic terms, the scientific jargon in this book is minimal and each term is fully explained to aid inclairity.   <br /> <br />The prose of this book flows very smoothly and at times you forget that you are reading a science book instead of a novel because the pages quickly fly by.  I found this rather surprising since I had previsously read Watson's famous book, \\"The Double Helix.\\"  Although \\"The Double Helix\\" is an important book, its prose was at times slow, stunted, and far from captivating.  \\"DNA: The Secret of Life\\" suffers from none of those flaws.  With the help of coauthor Andrew Berry, Watson has written a book that is as full of life and surprise as its title suggests. <br /> <br />My advice is that everyone should read this book no matter what there background in science is.  It is an important and enjoyable read that reveals how the chemical DNA is involved in all of the complicated intricies of life!  With the increasing growth of research in genetics, it doesn't hurt to learn some of the concepts about DNA that this book teaches.  That way, you can be truely informed about DNA, and this knowledge will allow you to form your own opinions about how DNA is used in society now and in the future.	2005-01-13
US	42337084	R2CBXYSF5YKEOH	0072348992	71016585	Biology of the Invertebrates, Fifth Edition	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Ok but not great	I took invertebrate zoology as my population/diversity requirement for my biology major and used this book.  I thought that it would be easy.  It wasn't.  Unless you are really interested in worms or insects or crabs then there is a good possibility that you might not really like a class like this and would recommend taking a different population/diversity class instead.  The class that I took included both lecture and lab examinations which I thought were rather difficult.  It wasn't really my thing and I didn't really find it that thrilling. <br /> <br />The textbook includes the major phyla of the invertebrates: Molluscs, Echinoderms, Arthropods, etc; as well as several minor phyla and a number of invertebrate classes.  The photographs are in black and white and there are a number of drawings of the anatomy of invertebrates, as well as many tables and graphs.  However, the book is in my opinion a rather slim volume and much information about specific classes are families is largely omitted.  Also, the book chooses to first present information about the different classes and orders in a phyla and then  presents informations about respiration, digestion, and other bodily processes at the end of the chapter, which I found confusing.  It would seem easier to just talk about the processes while discussing the specific classes or orders. <br /> <br />I wouldn't really say that this book is sufficient for the lab portion of a class like this.  The drawings are ok and useful for identifying some slides and specimens, but you will probably cover animals in lab that aren't in the book.  I used a general biology lab book when I took this class, but included very few slides that we actually looked at, and only about half of the dissections that we preformed. I would recommend buying a specific Invertebrate Zoology lab book, if you can find one.   <br /> <br />If you pay attention in lecture and are good at drawing pictures of specimens in lab, then this book is probably suffient for you to do well in an invertebrate class.  If you have problems paying attention in lecture and have difficulty telling one worm from another (like I did often) then you might want to check some other books out from the library that go into more detail.	2004-12-28
US	42337084	R371EGUKIE2DLU	081533480X	599791769	Essential Cell Biology, Second Edition	Books	3	29	35	N	N	Usefull illustrations, but it didn't help much for class	After taking my first course in cell biology I discovered a number of things about the subject.  1) Cell Biology is a HARD CLASS!  In my class, we covered about 18 or so chapters of material.  Tests were based mostly on memorization of both relevant and obscure facts as well as many, many molecular processes.  For someone that is pressed for time and tries to cram before tests, there will be problems. 2) It is difficult to understand many of the processes in cell biology without some chemistry background.  When I took the class, I was also in organic chemistry 2, but that didn't help much.  If I could have done it over again, I would actually take Biochemistry before Cell because processes in Cell Biology are explained briefly and mostly independent of the chemistry involved, which forces the student to memorize information without really understand why these processes occur.  3) In general, Biology is becoming more problem based and in order to understand cell, you need to have solve useful questions. <br /> <br />Based on the inherent difficulties of Cell Biology that I have mentioned, I don't think that this book did much to bridge any of these learning gaps.  The molecular processes were explained briefly which was ok, but since there was so many of them, it was still hard to manage.  The chemistry of cell biology in this book is poorly explained.  Chemical structures are largely discarded in favor of acronyms.  Obvisously, acronyms are favored for the long run, but a firm understanding of the chemical structures needs to be understand first.  In my opinion, this book relied too much on acroynms. <br /> <br />Finally, the questions in this book were terrible.  Some were just inane (Compare signs of life for a rock and a plant) while others were just pointless (Calculate something or the other).  Also, there were many problems that I was just clueless to even though I had read the information in the book.  These problems asked what would happen if some molecularprocess was somehow disturbed.  Obvisouly, questions of this nature are essential in understanding cell biology, but the book did not provide enough information to come up with a feasible answer.  In my opinion, this book should be much more problem based and should have fair problems that are able to be solved, and there should be a student solutions book available that provides clear explanations to all questions. <br /> <br />This book was decent for basic concepts, but not really useful for really understanding the subject matter.  I would recommend looking for a different text, even if this is the required text for your class.	2004-12-28
US	42337084	R1BVGLQ94C0BGL	0534393667	433357695	Single Variable Calculus (with Tools for Enriching Calculus, Video Skillbuilder CD-ROM, iLrn™ Homework, and Personal Tutor) (Available Titles CengageNOW)	Books	4	26	27	N	N	For what its worth, this is a good Calculus textbook	This book covers the first twelve chapters of the full edition of Calculus by Stewart.  I would actually recommend buying that book instead of this one if you are planning on taking up to Calc. 3 because they are similar in price but the full version includes Calc 1, 2, and 3 material.<br /><br />Anyway, I used this text for both Calculus 1 and 2 in college.  The first six chapters cover the course material for Calculus 1: Introductory Analytical Geometry, Limits, Derivatives, Applications of Derivatives, Integrals, and Applications of Intergrals.  Chapters 7-12 covers course material normal for Calculus 2: Inverse functions/Derivatives and integrals of exponential and logarithmic functions, Techniques of Integrations, Applications of Integration to Physics/Engineering, Differiential Equations (which we didn't cover), Parametric Equations/Polar Coordinates, and Series.  For some reason chapter seven includes different verisons of certain sections but they are basically the same anyway.<br /><br />Unlike other reviewers, I think that this book was very helpful. It is possible to learn the material if you put a lot of effort into it, which you need to do if you really want to learn Calculus.<br /><br />I can see why reviewers would find this book difficult to use though.  Truthfully, I found the Calc 1 material much more difficult than the Calc 2 material, probably because more of the calc 1 material is based on theory.  The section about graphing fuctions using derivatives is especially difficult.  It is extremely difficult to take the derivatives of some of the functions the book gives you, let alone find the critical points, etc. Also, some of the maximinization problems are virtually impossible to solve and a number of the related rate problems are very tricky.  Finally, I think that I can truthfully say that I rarely solved integrals correctly by the long way (using summations).<br /><br />Some people think that Calc 2 is the hardest math subject in the world, but I found the calc 2 material much easier than the calc 1 material.  The calc 2 chapters deal more with just solving problems particularly limits, integrals, and series, and the \\"proofs\\" for equations are just given on the side or in the appendex.  You should already know the basics, so there is nothing really tricky here (except maybe integration by partial fractions) and if you put the effort into working problems, you will probably do ok.  Calc 2 is all about 1) Learning how to solve problems by recognizing trends and 2) Commiting some formulas and equalities to memory in order to solve problems and learn about applications of math.  As far as I can see, Stewart's problems are as good as any to learn Calc 2.<br /><br />If you plan on studying Calculus in college, I would suggest first buying the book \\"Calculus the Easy Way\\" to look over first.  It is pretty good; it covers all Calc 1 material and a good chunk of Calc 2 material.  I would also suggest buying the solutions manuel to Stewart's text because it is helpful to see how the problems are worked out.  My advice is to just put a lot of time into Calculus (no matter what book you use) and you should do ok.  Its just math.world, but I found the calc 2 material much easier than the calc 1 material.  The calc 2 chapters deal more with just solving problems particularly limits, integrals, and series, and the \\"proofs\\" for equations are just given on the side or in the appendex.  You should already know the basics, so there is nothing really tricky here (except maybe integration by partial fractions) and if you put the effort into working problems, you will probably do ok.  Calc 2 is all about 1) Learning how to solve problems by recognizing trends and 2) Commiting some formulas and equalities to memory in order to solve problems and learn about applications of math.  As far as I can see, Stewart's problems are as good as any to learn Calc 2. <br /> <br />If you plan on studying Calculus in college, I would suggest first buying the book \\"Calculus the Easy Way\\" to look over first.  It is pretty good; it covers all Calc 1 material and a good chunk of Calc 2 material.  I would also suggest buying the solutions manuel to Stewart's text because it is helpful to see how the problems are worked out.  My advice is to just put a lot of time into Calculus (no matter what book you use) and you should do ok.  Its just math.	2004-12-22
US	42337084	R2BCT6YLPZLIYA	0072424605	950810814	Solutions Manual to Accompany Organic Chemistry	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Solutions Manuel	This book accompanies Francis Carey's Organic Chemistry Textbook.  It includes solutions to all of text problems and the solutions are worked out well to allow the student to understand the thought process involved in solving them.  Truely, a thorogh solutions manuel!	2004-12-18
US	42337084	R3H6E29RTVMDJR	0072521708	222247309	Organic Chemistry with Online Learning Center and Learning by Model CD-ROM	Books	3	15	15	N	N	Good Book, but it has some organization problems	Francis Carey's Organic Chemistry is a thick text intended for a two semester organic chemistry sequence.  It covers the typical organic functional groups and their reactions: Alkanes, Alkyl Halides, Alcohols, Alkenes, Alkyns, Aromatics, Organometallics, Ethers, Carbonyls, Carboxylic Acids, Esters, Amines, and Amides.  It also includes chapters on Spectroscopy, and chapters on the molecules of life: Amino acids, Nucleotides, Carbohydrates, and Lipids. <br /> <br />Francis Carey's Organic Chemistry is a decent textbook for learning organic chemistry on your own, but instructors tend not to like it because it isn't organized in the best manner.  The book sometimes gives reactions of compounds that it hasn't previsously discussed.  For example, the book gives reactions of esters before it really even explains what an ester is in a later chapter.  To help to clean up these placement gaps, the book periodically has sections on compounds called \\"A review and preview\\" were reactions encountered early are reviewed.  This is a little annoying because it forces you to learn the material out of order, which makes an even difficult subject more difficult.  <br /> <br />I used this textbook for two semesters.  I can't say that I didn't like the book, and if it wasn't for the organization problems, I probably would have given it four stars.  It does have pretty good problems at the end of each chapter and the solution manuel gives answers to all of the questions in the textbook.  The CD-rom is helpful for building molecules, and the online help site contains helpful reactions drills. <br /> <br />The main reason why the book wasn't particularly helpful for my classes was that neither of my professors really taught out of it; instead they had their own agenda that was more confusing and made it harder to learn the chemistry than if you just read the book alone.  So if you are in an organic class that uses this book, read the chapters and do the problems, but understand that this alone will not mean that you will succeed in class.  If you just read the book you may understand the book material well, but may not get the material that you professor wants you to learn.  Pay attention in lecture and understand the type of problems that you teacher gives you in order to really be able to succeed in a class like this, because let's face it, organic teachers are some of the hardest teachers in the world.	2004-12-18
US	42337084	R7TTDFSBFOWNN	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An interesting look at the other side of WWI	The novel All Quiet on the Western Front depicts the battle of the Germans during World War I. It is narrated by Paul Baumer, a twenty year old German, and reveals the events that take place during he and his comrades lives as they fight the war.  Unfortunately, the young men soon have to deal with combat wounds, killed friends, and despair.  The men are frequently presented with so many indicences of death before they have even really begun to live their lives.<br />This novel tells the story of World War I from the German perspective.  Although the Germans were thought of as the &quot;enemies&quot; to almost half of the world during the war, I did not see them as such as I was reading this novel.  Instead, they just seemed like regular soliders that did not really have a choice about their involvement in the war.  They felt no real glory for being soliders and their only desire was to remain alive.<br />One of the key themes that I though was apparent in the novel is that war is an inhumanity for both sides; there are really no &quot;good and bad&quot; guys when it comes to the soliders that are fighting.  All soliders are just fighting and killing because they do not have a choice to do otherwise.  This theme can be seen by Paul's willingness to give food to Russian prisoners, and the gulit that he feels after taking the life of an ally solider.<br />I found the writing style of Remarque appealing.  Although I cannot tell how much of the style of the novel was lost in translation, I can say that I found the English translation very straightforward and unadorned.  Yet, the sentences still had a certain charm to them and were never banal (as I have often found Hemmingway's to be).  Remarque's style reminded me a little of Crane's The Red Badge of Courage.  But All Quiet on the Western Front is by far the better book.  Its prose flows freely and it is quite a page turner.<br />If you are at all interested in war stories, I would reccommend reading All Quiet on the Western Front.  I warn you that it is by not means an uplifting book and that it can be very graphic at times.  But if you would like to experience a first hand account of World War I from the German side then you should read this book.  It is the anti-war book for all wars.	2004-06-08
US	42337084	R1GJ7WSCSBKPB7	0679755330	109150788	A Raisin in the Sun	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good play about the lives of an African American family	The play A Raisin in the Sun takes its title from a line from the classic poem by Langston Hughes that I is called &quot;A Dream Deferred.&quot;  Appropriately enough, the play focuses on the deferred dreams of the Younger family, an African American family living in Chicago sometime after World War II.  The family consists of Mama, Walter Lee Younger, his wife Ruth, his son Travis, and his sister Berneath.  The whole family lives together in a small apartment.  It is long been Mama dream to move into a house and she could finally make this a reality with the aid of insurance money from her deceased husband's policy.  Walter Lee, however, wants to use the money to open up a liquor store because he is tired of working as an unrespected chauffer.  Berneath--a college student--dreams of becoming a doctor and believes that some of the money should go to her schooling.  Thus, although each family member believes that the money will fullfill their dreams, it actually just causes more conflicts.  The ultimate theme of the play is that money itself cannot make your dreams come true.  Dreams must be worked on in order for them to come true.  Eventhough some dreams may never be realized, they never truely &quot;die.&quot;  Instead, they allows remain in the back of your mind ever if they will never actually be realized.<br />I found this play an enjoyable and quick read.  To me, it was more appealing than plays of August Wilson, who wrote plays of a similar theme (Fences, The Piano Lesson).  One good thing about the play is that although the Youngers are a black family, the theme of the play seems appealing to any audience since many families have had money problems and even more families have had dreams about life that they have struggled to fulfill.	2004-06-03
US	42337084	R74VEPIHPGBKE	0805345531	653491378	iGenetics with Free Solutions	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pretty good, even if it is a bit wordy at times	I used this textbook when I took General Genetics this past semester.  The book contains a wealth of information.  In the course I took we focused on the basic principle of DNA and RNA, Mendelian principles, mono and dihybrid crosses, pedigrees and inheritance, multiple alleles located on different loci and multiple alleles located on the same loci, genetic mapping, damage and DNA repair mechanisms, prokaryotes gene regulation, and population genetics.  This text did much to help my understanding of these topics and also contained other topics that we only touched upon in class or did not have time to cover, including the genetics of cancer, quantative genetics, and recombinate DNA technology.<br />At the end of each chapter in the text there are a number of conceptual questions and genetics \\"problems\\" that serve as a tool of teaching genetics by the problem based approach.  These problems are helpful because my class focused on the problem based side of genetics, as most general genetics classes probably do.  The book includes a CD-rom that includes the answers to ALL of the problems in the book for FREE!  The CD-rom also contains movies that illustrate important mechanisms like transcribtion, translation, and DNA replication, as well as additional exercises.  For me, I found it particulary helpful to be able to \\"see\\" genetic processes instead of just hearing about them in class.<br />Even though all of the anwsers to the book problems are included on the CD-rom, I would recommend picking on the Student Solution Guide as well because it is GREAT.  It works out every single problem in the book.  This is somewhat of a rarity for science books (especially biology ones).  I can say that this solutions manuels is very helpful.<br />The only problem that I had with the textbook was that it was a bit wordy in some sections.  While reading this book, I would recommend highlighting only those topics that your professor discusses in class and not getting hung up on terms that he or she has not talked about and sound like gobble-gook (Shrine-Delgado sequence, TATA box).  Most likely, your class will focus on general concepts and you will not have the time to discuss the specifics in detail.  I can't say that it is a bad thing that the book included detailed information from other areas of biology (biochemistry, cell biology), since these fields will be important if you are a biology major, but they probably do not need to be disscused in great detail in genetics if not prompted by the instructor.<br />Overall, I would say that this is a good genetics text.  It contains usefull explanations and illustrations about topics that may not have been clearly explained in class, especially if your professor tends to mummble or doesn't have the best artistic style when it comes to drawing chromosomes.	2004-06-02
US	42337084	R33ANSOS6RDGT8	0805345450	442601934	Study Guide/Solutions Manual	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great Solutions Manuel!	This Solutions Manuel contains the answers to all of the chapter problems in iGenetics and works out every single problem.  Although short answers for all of the problems in the text are included on the free CD-rom that comes witht the text book , I would recommend picking up the solutions manuel as well.  It shows how every problem is worked out, valueable information for developing the analytical skills needed to succeed in a problems-based genetics course.	2004-06-02
US	42337084	R37ML1FO6R4H58	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Worth Reading...but be prepared	Ulysses is the story of one day in the life of Leopold Bloom, an Irish jew.  The novel follows his travels and ends with his meeting of Stephen Dedaulus.  By reading the novel, the reader is able to see Bloom's character fleshed out before his eyes, as well as to tap into the personalities of the numerous other characters on the busy Dublin street.  Symbolically, the novel parallels Homer's Odyssey, depicting the great &quot;journey&quot; that Bloom travels in one day.<br />Although Ulysses is difficult to read, it is not impossible to complete.  However, before even attempting to read this novel, it is best to have previously read several other pieces of literature to aid in the comprehension of the story.  You should first already be familiar with Joyce's writings; read both Dubliners to get a feel of Joyce's style, and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young to fully understand the maturation of Stephan Dedaulus' character.  Next, read the Odyssey, preferrable a verse translation.  I'd recommend Robert Fagles version.  Finally, it is also helpful to have read Hamlet, be familiar with both the Old and New Testament of The Bible, and know a little about early 19th century Irish history.<br />Even if you are a literary scholar, you will probably still find some parts--probably even whole chapters--confusing or even incomprehensible.  One unique characteristic of Ulysses is its style.  Contrary to popular belief, the book is not completely written in the stream of consciousness style.  Instead, each of the novel's chapters has a characteristic style, ranging from straigt narration to an almost 200 page long play.  This can be a bit aggravating for the reader.  Another confusion of the chapters is there exact parrallel to the Odyssey.  Each chapter does have a parrallel chapter in the Odyssey but while some similiarities can easily be distinguished in the plot, other parrallels are only apparent in symbolism and style.  Because of these difficulties it is best to read theCliffsNotes on this book while reading the novel.<br />Overall, I can tell you that Ulysses is quite interesting in some parts and very very dull in others.  If you are a fan of literature, I would recomend reading it sometime.  Truefully, Ulysses was good but not as great as it thought it would be.  My favorite parts of the book were simply the ones that helped to reveal Bloom's character.  I got annoyed by the fact that too many other characters appeared and were characterized but actually had very little to do with the story's plot.  The plot itself is a bit weak and Joyce is a bit too over-indulgent and is purposefully confusing in describing some of the action of the story (its 783 pages!).  Also, in order to understand all of the novel's symbols you would have to read several literary references and this would take forever.  I also think that Joyce sort of went a bit too far with literary styles.  Some were good but others not so much.  I liked the narrative and stream of consciousness chapters, but personally thought that the play chapter failed to convey its message and was meandering.  And why wasn't there a chapter in epic format (as was the Odyssey) or other form of poem (Stephen was supposed to be a poet).  Finally, I do not believe that Ulysses was universal enough to be considered a masterpiece.  One of the great aspects of world literature is that it is supposed to let reader from other countries understand what it is like to live in the country in which the novel takes place.  Joyce did try to achieve this goal, but he presented many viewpoints about Irish politics and facts about political figures (Parnell) with even trying to allow the non-Irish reader to understand these people or concepts.<br />Dispite its problems, I would recommend reading Ulysses but if there is any other book you would like to read, read it first because Ulysess does seem to drag on forever.  Don't expect to understand all of Ulysses or be excited about unraveling its symbolism.  In order to understand most of the symbolism you have to read the CliffsNotes and this kind of ruins the fun of self discovery.  The book is not as contreversial as I thought it would be--really the only parts that would warrant censorship are contained in the last chapter (Molly's monologue) but these are rather provactive.  Overall, the plot of Ulysses does not neccesarily always make the best story nor could I actually call it a &quot;masterpiece&quot; but the book is interesting if you are a fan of Joyce and have the time to spend on it.  It took me just short of three weeks to finish it.  If you are just reading the book for fun (not for a class) I'd recommend reading it over summer or a holiday because it is definately not a light or short read by any means.	2004-05-31
US	42337084	R3AI00TK6Z23K1	0838482260	667477887	Temas: Spanish for the Global Community	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not particularly great	This textbook introduces the fundamentals of the Spanish language to students.  Chapters give instructions on the grammar of the Spanish language especially verb tenses (indicative, preterit, imperfect, subjunctive, present progressive, future, conditional, and imperfect subjunctive).  The book also includes information about a number of Spanish speaking countries.<br />Truthfully, I did not really find this book that helpful, at least not for studying.  The book exercises may help when conversing in class, but are pretty pointless if preformed alone.  I did not feel that the book did a great job of teaching the grammar either.  It stuck certain grammatical topics in the middle of chapters instead of introducing them at the forefront which I think would have been better.  It did little to illustrate verb conjugation (I recommend using 501 Spanish verbs to help).  More English directions would also have helped a little.  The cultural sections in the book were informative, but I would rather have the book focus more on the Spanish language instead.<br />The two extras that probably will come with the book's package are the Temas CD-rom and workbook.  The workbook really wasn't that bad and I think helped me at least a little.  It is actually better to get a teacher who makes you do the workbook because these exercises do help (some teachers basically ignore the workbook and expect you to do it on your own).  The only problem that I had with it was that it often included Spanish words that were not explained in the text.  The CD-rom I felt was very helpful.  It was especially useful for preparing for listening portions of exams and includes several helpful exercises.<br />Basically, Temas is not horrible but not great.  It is a bit too bare-bones in its teaching style to be a great textbook.	2004-05-14
US	42337084	R23RQEXW3QG41A	074321630X	841067083	The Double Helix: A Personal Account of the Discovery of the Structure of DNA	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Important Discover...but not the most invigorating book	Ok.  I'm giving this book a 4 because of the importance of the discover of the structure of DNA.  In terms of actual reading material, however, I'd probably give it a 2 or 3.  I do believe that James Watson is a great scientist, but he is not writer.  His writing style is only adequete and far from interesting and he really doesn't do a great job of putting interest into the subject matter.  Someone who does not have at least a little background in the general concepts or biology/organic chemistry/physics will probably not get much out of this book.<br />Now on to the science side of the book.  Watson describes the various events that took place while he, Franscis Crick, Maurice Wilkins, and Rosalind Franklin worked on discovering the structure of DNA.  Again, Watson does not really put much vigor into these events but does describe them realistically (science can't always do interesting).  He focuses on his relationship with Crick, battles with Franklin, and competetion with Linus Pauling--the Nobel prize winning chemist who ironically get the structure of DNA wrong.  Through his writing, Watson at times reveals his pompousness and his ignorance of certain scientific concepts, but overall shows his devout eagerness of discovery.<br />I would say that this is an important book to read if you are at all interested in science.  However, it is probably too boring for just a fun read.	2004-05-14
US	42337084	R3KETACPUCX2HM	0136331246	244893601	Physics	Books	3	31	33	N	N	Decent but not great	I used this book for my first class in college physics.  The book is a decent text for learning physics, but I think that several improvements could be made.<br />This book is Volume 1 of a two volume set.  It includes topics about kinematics, Newton's Laws, Energy, Waves and Sound, Fluids, and Thermodynamics, among other topics.  To tell the truth, I don't really see the point of splitting the book up into two volumes since most people will take both classes anyway.<br />First, the good aspects of the book.  This text is intended for an algebra-based (no calculus) college physics course.  I does do a good job of limiting the mathematical details and instead presenting the underlying physical concept that is to be understood.  There are also numerous illustrated examples and practice problems that are very helpful.<br />Next, the bad aspects of the book.  If you are like me and go to a large state university, then it is quite likely that your professor will be a physicist that may be more interested in his or her research than your class.  Since real physics majors do not take this class, your professor may not enjoy teaching it.  But even if you have the best professor in the world, it is likely that many of the problems in this book are a bit more simplistic than ones that your professor will give on an exam.  The book does include simple problems, but does not illustrate how to work out more difficult ones.  If you are considering buying the study guide/answer book, don't.  It is terrible.  It only shows how to do about ten out of the fifty+ questions per chapter.  I've had biology answer key books that included more problems.<br />Basically, this book is not bad for the basic principles but not very good for more advanced ones.  How well the course goes depends on the instructor.  I'd recommend taking physics first in high school if you are planning on taking it in college because this book is intended for one semester and it covers 18 chapters.  It wouldn't hurt to have some prior knowledge of the subject.	2004-04-30
US	42337084	R1LUNWMPO1KDYY	0451167805	250944357	Firestarter	Books	2	6	20	N	N	Ugh	Having read a couple of King novels, I bought a copy of Firestarter because I thought that it would be an exciting science fiction novel.  Boy was I wrong.  Overall, the book was slow and lacked much excitment.<br />The story is a girl who inherited pyrokinetic powers from both of her parents who participated in a pyschology experiment in college.  After the government discovers the telekinetic powers of the family, they seek to capture them.  Agents murder the mother but the father and daughter--Charlie--escape.  There run from the government encompasses the first part of the book, which is somewhat interesting.  The two use there talents to manuever themselves around the country.  The finally reach a safe haven in a family cabin, and unfortunately the book sends too much time on there daily life at the cabin and the government spying on them.  Somewhere in the middle there is an incident where a farmer befriends them and doesn't seem to mind that Charlie burned down their farm.  Eventually, there are captured.   <br />After the first hundred pages or so, the book really takes a turn towards the boring side.  Charlie and her father spend the rest of the book trapped in a government prison.  Here we meet the horrible character John Rainbird, a Native American assassin who has a &quot;fancy&quot; for shoes.  Rainbird is probably one of the worst characters I have found in King's writings.  King characterizes him as a person who enjoys killing others, even little Charlie.  Frankly, this is just sickening.  Rainbird isn't even an interesting or devishly likable character.  Too much time is also spent characterizing Cap Hollister, another boring villian.<br />The chapters in which the characters are in prison are slower than a turtle crossing the street.  There are entire chapters in which Charlie's father is characterized as getting fat and losing his ability and basically just sitting around and doing nothing.  Other chapters further detail the disturbing character ofRainbird or Charlie's events in prison.  Who cares?  Where's the action?<br />The action does pick up near the end, but it is woven into some type of stupid plot twist to try to free Charlie from enternment.  I won't tell you how the story ends, but I found it thoroughly disappointing...even more disappointing that the endings of most King novels.<br />Overall, Firestarter just moves too slowly to maintain interesting.  Novels that were more than twice as many pages as Firestarter (The Stand, IT) moved much faster and were quite readable.  Firestarter wasn't.  It took me about four months to actually finish it because it was so boring.  I wouldn't recommend it.  Check out some other works by King instead.	2004-01-21
US	42337084	R4LPHS14XS0M1	0767901266	528046712	A Hope in the Unseen: An American Odyssey from the Inner City to the Ivy League	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A good read for college students, but not without its flaws	A Hope in the Unseen tells the story of Cedric Jennings, a lower income black student who is stuck in a terrible neighborhood in Washington DC.  Cedric strives to work hard in high school in hopes that he will find some way out of the &quot;ghetto&quot; lifestyle that has suffacated some many of his friends and family.  Cedric's dream comes true when he is accepted into Brown University, but it comes with a cost.  At Brown, Cedric has to deal with classes that he feels unprepared for, and feels alienated from the mostly white, upperclass student body at Brown.  But Cedric is surely not a quiter.  It is uplifting to see Cedric's personal story of success unfold page after page.  At the end of the book, it seems that Cedric has come to terms with Brown Unversity, his religious beliefs, and most importantly, himself.<br />A few other reviewers have mentioned that Cedric's story is not particulary exceptional.  This belief arises from the still quite controversial issue of affirmative action-like practices that effect acceptance to several colleges and universities around the country.  Cedric has stellar high school grades and extra-curricular activies, but this would normally not be enough to grant acceptance into an Ivy League school for a white student with the same qualifications.  The main issue addressed is that Cedric's SAT score of only about 960 would immediately disqualify him from Brown if he were white.<br />Personally, I have mixed feelings about this issue.  Truthfully, this topic disturbed me when I applied to college.  I knew several students that had worse GPAs and SAT/ACT scores than I, but still got into better schools.  Most people didn't mention it much, but most people believed that the only reason why they got accepted was because they were black.  Cedric's story turned me around on the issue a little though.  When I read about what Cedric had to go through just to get a decent education out of high school, I truely believe that he deserved to goto Brown.  However, this is not the case with every school.  For instance, my high school was a very good school, so anyone who went there really had an equal oppertunity to do well if they wanted to.  Plus, many of the African American students that I went to school with came from similar economic backgrounds as I did.  So I guess I still have mixed feelings about this issue.<br />Finally, although this was quite an uplifting book, I did have just a few problems with it.  The first is that Cedric felt that he had to go to an Ivy League school or all his struggles were worthless.  Not the case.  Many students don't get into there top choice schools, but a good student can succeed anywhere.  College is a whole different ballpark than high school.  Personally, I think that Ivy League schools are just money grubbing institutions anyway.  Its more about what you learn in college than where you go to school.<br />Secondly, why did Cedric take almost all of his classes pass/fail?  That really won't look too good on a transcript.  It also seems that some of the insights directed toward Cedric by his teachers make it seem that he is further behind than the other students just because he is black.  The whole race issue in the book is never really resolved because at the book's end, it is mentioned that Cedric later mostly hung out with other black students.  Not the most diversifying ending.<br />Overall, A Hope in the Unseen is quite a good book though.  Cedric's rise from poverty to the Ivy League is heroing and can be appreciated by people of any color.  This book is a good pick for a college reader.	2004-01-21
US	42337084	R3733SUCVRHVO9	0805366245	385752726	Biology, 6th Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good, EXTENSIVE General Biology Text	I used this textbook for my introductory biology in college.  The book provides a great sampling of numerous different areas in biological science.  Campbell's book begins with biochemistry and cellular biology, moves on to human body systems, progresses to zoology and taxonomy, and concludes with ecology.  It even includes some interesting chapters about sociobiology and psychobiology.  This text truely features a plethora of information.  It encompasses 50 chapters and is longer than 1000 pages.  Each chapter concludes wtih about 12 questions to test the reader over the material that he or she just covered.  I also found the CD-rom that came with the book quite helpful.  The CD has a quiz and a test for each chapter.  This greatly helped me prepare for tests, because sometimes my teacher's questions were very similar.  Overall, this book provides anything you could possibly need to learn biology, and serves as an excellent source of basic future reference.<br />Obvisously, few introductory biology courses will cover every chapter in this book, especially if the course is only one semester long.  There are several chapters, such as the evolution of plants (Campbell get his Ph.D in botany), that can easily be passed over.  Also, this book may not be the ideal text for a non-major course--textbooks are expensive and this one is a pepperoni pounder in terms of length.<br />Personally, I often found this book rather interesting to read and think that I provided me with valuable information that I will need in the future.  You might want to check it out if you are thinking of becoming a biology major in college.	2003-12-18
US	42337084	R1XF04U1KM80FR	0130873047	695213173	Calculus and Its Applications (9th Edition)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Text for Basic Calculus Concepts	Contrary to what some other reviewer have claimed, I found this book quite helpful.  It provides the basic concepts of Calculus such as limits and derivative rules and applications, exponents and logarithms, integrals, double variable calculus, trig functions, techniques of integrations, an introduction to differential equations, and even series.<br />I found this book very easy to use.  It presents the information in a very terse, straightforward manner.  Basically, it cuts down on the mathematical theory and allows students to solve the important equations quick and easy.  Instead of being lost in complicated definations of derivations, I was able to quickly find derivations and discover their uses in functions.<br />This is the book that I used for my &quot;Calculus for Social and Natural Science Majors&quot; course.  Personally, I feel that I learned much from this book.  I never took a Calculus class in high school and wasn't the most mathematically inclinded so i was sure that Calculus was going to be tough.  This book made it really easy to understand and somehow Calculus turned into one of my easiest classes.<br />This book, however, is not for those who plan on taking higher level Calculus classes.  It has most of the fundamentals, but not more advanced topics.  Also, several topics are presented out of order from a regular Calc 1 class (so I'm told).  For instance, calculus of several varibles--a topic usually covered in a third level course--occurs before techniques of intregration.  <br />The book is quite suitable for a Business/Natural Science Calc class, as it was intended to be used for, and overall seems to make the subject easier.  It provides a good means of jumping right into the subject.	2003-12-14
US	42337084	RDXSZVXNR5ZGY	0073656011	910777652	Chemistry, Seventh Edition	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Good Textbook for Learning Chemistry	Chang's Seventh edition of Chemistry includes the core material of most chemistry texts.  The material that is usually covered in high school or in a first year college course is presented in the first five chapters: Basic concepts; Atoms, molecules, and ions; Chemical Reacions; Aqueous Solutions; and Gas Laws.  Further chapters include topics appearing in a comprehensive first year or second year course: Thermochemistry; Atomic Orbitals; Periodic Properties; Bonding; Intermolecular Forces; and Physical Properites of Solutions.  Finally, the conclusion of general chemistry includes Kinetics; Acid/Base Properties and Equilibria and Solubility; Electrochemistry; and Nuclear Chemistry; among possible other topics.  The book also includes several other topics that may not be covered in a class, such as Chemistry in the Atmosphere; Metallurgy; Nonmetals; Entropy and Free Energy; Transition Metals; Organic Chemistry; and Polymers.  You might want to look into these chapters if you are planning on taking more advanced courses in chemistry(Organic, for example).<br />I used this book for three courses in college.  I did not consider myself a big fan of chemistry original, but found the subject much more interesting after opening Chang's text.  I found the book rather easy to read and study.  The material is presented in as much of a straightforward manner as is possible for chemistry.  The numerous colorful pictures in the text made studying somewhat more enjoyable and definately made chemistry more interesting.  The book also includes a handy keycard folder that features the periodic table and many other useful value tables.  This book provides several useful examples and problems.  It was very intrumental in forming my knowledge of basic chemistry.  It is a useful tool for self-instruction.  Truthfully, I think that I learned a lot more from the book alone than from any of my actual chemistry professors (no offense, but chemistry professors are some of the worst teachersin the world). I really did find the book quite interesting though (more so than my professors' lectures).<br />There are several optional materials that are available with this book.  The first is a web service that may be included as a feature of your university's internet course programs.  It is quite helpful, providing study questions and practice tests.  The second is the Student Solutions Manuel.  You will probably want to pick this up if you want to know how to solve homework problems.  There is also a Student Study Guide.  This is somewhat optional.  It is helpful, but I have found several errors in it.  Finally, there is a \\"Ready Notes\\" book.  I wouldn't really suggest to buy this.  It just has text pictures with spaces to write information next to them.<br />I'm not a conosur of chemistry books, but I can say that Chang has all the neccesicities for your general chemistry needs.	2003-12-14
US	42337084	R3UCB2HR6YNM32	0812091418	813017306	Calculus the Easy Way (Easy Way Series)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Great introduction to a somewhat daunting subject	After my freshmen year of college, I decided to switch majors from English to Biology.  Since my Biology major required that I take two basic Calculus classes, I was a little afraid of what I was getting into.  I high school I never considered myself very good at math.  I admit that I never tried too hard at the subject; I just did as much work to get by, and didn't really worry about understanding the concepts much.  I never even got up to Calculus in high school.  I did actually learned quite a lot about mathematics from a college algebra course, but the course was somewhat difficult for me, and it was just algebra!<br />I pick Calculus the Easy Way up in the summer after my freshmen year in order to get some practice of a subject that I knew nothing about.  At first I was suprized that a math book was written in the frame work of a fantasy novel, but eventually the idea grew on me.  It was interesting that it was possible to &quot;intergrate&quot; a story into lessons in Calculus.  The characters and story lines were fun and the explanations about the fundamentals of Calculus were pretty easy to understand, although I have to admit that it would have helped if they had been more straightforward at times.  The problems at the end of the chapters helped me quite a bit, but I did agree with other reviewers who believe there could have been more of them.<br />Overall, I think that Calculus the easy is a good introduction for those unfamilar with calculus.  It may not have all of the topics disscussed in more advanced calculus classes, but it has all of the core material and does provide introductions to differential equations and partial differentiation, so it does cover a broad range.  Of course, it is just a learning aid because there is no substitute for an actual textbook and high school or college course.  Plus, tt only costs about 10% of what a text book would, so I believe that it is well worth the money.  The book certainly helped me.  When I actually took Calculus, I had already preview almost all of the course topics, and I did really well (I got an A+)!	2003-12-06
US	42337084	R345XVZJWOVGZD	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great epic told brillantly	The Illiad is the one of the world's first and greatest epics.  It begins in the midst of the Trojan war and focuses largely on Achilles role as first a traitor, then savior of the Greeks, establishing him as one of the most perplexing figures in literature.  While the battle on earth procedes, an equally difficult battle is occuring on Mount Olympius with the gods.  The epic probes topics such as the right of the individual vs the right of the whole, loyality, and the glory and terror of outright war.  Although the book does not end with the fall of Troy--there is no Trojan horse in this story--the ending is quite compeling in its own right.<br />The Illiad is often overshadowed by its sequel, The Odysessy; but in my opinion, the Illiad is a much more engrossing and better characterized tale.  It should definately be read before the Odysessy because it adds much insight into events that take place in that book, and features a number of the same characters.<br />Robert Fagles' verse translation is an exceptional read.  I can't compare it to any other editions because it is the only version of the Illiad that I have read, but it seemed to be constructed quite well.  The verse is so easy to understand that it is like reading a conventional novel but much better.  The characters come alive right before your eyes.  The battle scences are amazingly precise, making it appear as if you were watching them instead of just reading them.  The epic is always a fast paced read and does not suffer from the dryness that can be experienced with other works of literature labeled as &quot;classics.&quot;  The Illiad would be entertaining to anyone looking for a good adventure.	2003-07-29
US	42337084	RE2740JV49LTO	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Truely one of the greatest American novels	I had John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath sitting on my bookshelf for several years and always wanted to read it.  I started it one summer, but only got about twenty pages or so into it before I gave up.  I didn't get back to The Grapes of Wrath until my freshman year of college when I had to read it for a Geography class.  I wasn't sure why the book was assigned for Geography, but was glad that I finally had an excuse to read through the book.  It was assigned at the begining of the semester, and I think that I finished it about a month before we even started talking about it.<br />This book deserves every bit of praise that it has recieved.  It tells the story of the Joad family, \\"Okies\\" who are journeying to California after their farm has been destroyed by both the effects of \\"The Dust Bowl\\" and the attempts of the United States government to control crop prices.  At first, they believe that the \\"Golden state\\" is abundant with oppertunaties; Grampa is so excited that he says he wants to smash grapes all over his face when he gets to California.  Yet soon all their hopes turn sour.  Their trip exposes the rural farm family to the hardships of literally surviving during a time of economic downfall.  The Joads experience loss of several family members and blique hopes for steady employment when they finally reach California; yet by the novel's end Steinbeck ensures that the Joads--and all the migrant farm workers in general--will continue to endure.  Steinbeck inspired the characters in The Graphes of Wrath with heartfelt emotion, and by reading it you will truely experience their difficulties.<br />A unique characteristic of the novel is that it contains \\"interlude\\" chapters after every narrative chapter or two.  These chapters describe the the overall effects of others during The Dust Bowl and weave their way into the events of the Joads themselves.  The first interlude chapter about the turtle is quite interesting and serves as a symbol of the story overall.<br />This book is a must read for anyone and can be interpreted on quite a few different levels, including an allegory of the journey to the promised land.  There are even a few funny jokes that I underlined in my text to remember.  Although the novel may not imediately seem all that interesting, stick with it because it is worth finishing./>This book is a must read for anyone and can be interpreted on quite a few different levels, including an allegory of the journey to the promised land.  There are even a few funny jokes that I underlined in my text to remember.  Although the novel may not imediately seem all that interesting, stick with it because it is worth finishing.	2003-07-29
US	42337084	RUS3VK2FU4PRT	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Best of King	I haven't read that many of King's books, but IT is definately the best one that I have read.  IT is not a mere horror story; IT is also an enticing tale about childhood adventures and adult struggles.  Truely, King marvels at his skill as a writer in this novel.<br />The novel is about a group of friends--Bill, Ben, Stan, Richie, Mike, Beverely, and Eddie--who are seen as outcasts in their youth and form a \\"loser's club.\\"  The group discovers an ancient evil only known as \\"IT\\", which appears again when they are adults.  Adhereing to their childhood pact, the now-adults swear to destroy IT once and for all.<br />IT has quite an interesting structure.  King makes time an important motiff in IT by alternating between the childhood and adulthood of the characters.  He singles out each one in both stages of his or her life to give an in-depth analysis of his or her character, revealing certain fears and weaknesses.  It is interesting to see that even though thirty years have passed, most of the characters still maintain their unique personalities.<br />If you want to read this book, you are in for a long journey--more than 1000 pages.  It is true that this book could have recieved some editing before publication.  About 200-300 pages (mostly about the town or characterization of unimportant characters) could have been deleted without much being lost from the overall story.  I won't tell you to skip reading the interlude pages, but it is probably better to go through them quickly to get back to the story; some of them are rather boring and seem out of place.  Still, they are worth slogging through to finish the novel.  IT does have some faults (in my opinion) around the ending as well--I won't go into detail about them--but these are overshadowed by the marvelous story that constitutes the bulk of the novel.<br />Overall, reading IT was quite an adventure; IT was often quite interesting, sometime rather scary, and usually a page turner.  IT remains the best King book that I have read and in my opinion it is much better than the Stand.  IT is worth the many hours that you will put into reading it.	2003-07-25
US	42337084	R2LOBFB2EGMLQ0	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Like Lord of the Rings but with Rabbits	Watership Down is a great adventure book.  In case you are wondering, the book is not about some kind of battle ship sinking, as the title may seem to imply.  Instead Watership Down is the name of the area where a group of rabbits live.<br />I know what you are thinking, &quot;Why would I want to read 400+ pages about rabbits?&quot;  I had my doubts too; the first time I picked up this book, I only got about 20 pages into it before I gave up.  Fortunately, I started reading it again about a year later and found it to be a rather engrossing tale.<br />A group of rabbits, including the main characters of Hazel, Bigwig, and Fiver, leave their warren to avoid being killed when it is destroyed by construction.  The novel tells of their journey to a new warren, its establishment, and the trials of keeping it safe and prosperous.<br />Adams' use of approxiate quotes from various literary sources at the begining of each chapter gives the novel an epic appeal, and the stories El-ahrairah seem akin to popular folktales.  The novel cultivates in a dramatic battle scene.  No, Watership Down is not about elves and wizards, but give it a chance because it is just as entertaining as a fantasy novel.	2003-07-25
US	42337084	R2E2ECRM2O6XCB	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Science Fiction Story	H.G. Wells' The Time Machine sets a presecedent in the genre of time travel stories, books, and movies.  The short novel explores a future far stranger than those assumed by later distopian works like Brave New World and 1984, or even more current movies like the Back to the Future Series.  The future envisioned by The Time Machine has neither glaring technological advancements nor a strict government.  Instead, Wells envisioned that a far distanter future would eventually lead to mankind's decline.  Although the story is often thought of as pure science fiction, it contains a prevailing theme against class structure and an anti-Darwinian theme by juxtaposing the Eloi with the Morlocks.<br />The Time Machine may not be the most in-depth science fiction when compaired with some of its offspring, but it was definately one of the prominent forerunners of the genre.  It is also a short and intreging read.	2003-07-09
US	42337084	R2V4OUQNY5BI8T	0385334206	739505736	Breakfast of Champions: A Novel	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Vonnegut doesn't  play the race card well	I wrote a review of this book a few weeks ago, and it still hasn't shown up on amazon, so I thought that I'd have another go at it.<br />The gist of my first review was that I thought that this book was entertaining and added much depth into the character of Kilgore Trout.  The story was amusing and the pictures were interesting, yet sometimes seemed to be used just to take up space.<br />But there was one main bad part of this novel: it overplayed the race card.  I'm not saying that Vonnegut is himself racist, and do believe that he was using the issue in a satrical way, but it just went overboard.  The N-bomb was dropped way too many times and all of the black characters in the novel were sterotypical.  The novel's attempted humor is not akin to the type used in, say, Blazing Saddles; instead, it just seemed like bigotry.<br />As a white man, I think the novel assumes a racist attitude.  There are countless other books that deal with race much better, including Native Son, Invisible Man, and even The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, which really does not seem very similar to this book.<br />I liked the book, but it is just whimisical.  If it actually seemed that Vonnegut was trying to make a clear cutting point about race relations, then I wouldn't be so hard on him.  Unfortunately though, this theme never seems to precipitate, and the novel ends without making any dominant statement.  The book is interesting, but ultimately shouldn't be classified as the \\"great literature\\" that some believe it to be.	2003-06-29
US	42337084	R1VL4GK26C96S6	0385334230	394004545	Slapstick or Lonesome No More!	Books	2	3	12	N	N	As silly as its name entails	As far as I can tell, this was Vonnegut's attempt at an distopian novel of the vein of Brave New World or 1984, yet more satirical.  But Vonnegut struck out with this book.<br />The first person narrative style of Slapstick is somewhat similar to that of Cat's Cradle (which I have yet to finish).  The story is told from the viewpoint of the King of New York, who is the ugliest man in the world and is the former President of the United States.  During his presidency, he invents artificial familes based on randomized middle names, and scientific advancements by the Chinese and the Albanian flu lead to the destruction of the country.<br />As the descriptions of the novel show, Slapstick is utterly ridiculous, which was of course Vonnegut's aim.  Unfortunately, the book does not seem to have much more of a deeper meaning.  Instead, it seems as though it was just an excuse for Vonnegut to write another crazy book.  It seems too silly to be intriguing on a more literary scope.  Another problem is that the reappearing \\"Hi ho\\" in Slapstick becomes annoying quickly.<br />One good thing about this book is that it is a very quick read.  If you see it at a yardsale, you might want to pick it up for a quick giggle.  But that's about all you will get from this book.  I wouldn't invest any more money in it than a dollar or two.  If you are interested in Vonnegut, start with Slaughterhouse-Five if you haven't already read it.  It is still the best book of his that I have read.	2003-06-29
US	42337084	R3JXTX5SBFS2DQ	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	One of the better Heinlein novels that I have read	I can't say that I'm a huge fan of Heinlein's type of science fiction in general.  The two books of his that I formerly read, Stranger in a Strange Land and Starship Troopers, both were based on interesting concepts, but fell victim to the author's preschoolish philosophies of religion and the military, respectively.  While Red Planet is not entirely devoid of this type of analysis, its use is certainly limited in his so called \\"juvenalle\\" novel.<br />My interest in reading this book actually started when I was in sixth grade.  Our class had to read Red Planet for an assignment.  I think that there was even a cartoon series on Fox based on it.  I don't remember liking the book a great deal then, but at that time I can't say that I had read a lot of sophisticated literature in general.  I never did finish the book for school, and forgot about it for several years.  I didn't know who Robert Heinlein was at the time, nor did I immediately make a connection with his later work that I read.<br />I guess about two years ago, I had a chance to see the horrible movie Red Planet for free.  I was somewhat excited to see it, believing that I might be based on the book of the same title, but was sadly mistaken.  I made me remember that I had never actually finished the book.  I found it on Amazon, and later bought a copy.<br />I was originally surpized that the book was written by Robert Heinlein.  After reading Stranger in a Strange Land, I though that his literature was mainly scifi that was used as a tool for this philosophies.  Fortunately, this is not as much the case in Red Planet.  While the story does contain several right wing message about the right to bear arms, and is obvisously a story about political autonomy, its core still contains and interesting and likable story.  In my personal opinion, the book has more actual action and adventure that Starship Troopers, and a lot fewer, drawn out passages about Heinlein's personal beliefs.  And there are Martians as well,unlike in Stranger in a Strange Land.<br />If you are not a fan of Heinlein, this novel is still quite enjoyable.  It is somewhat childish compared with his other work, but this aspect adds to its universal appeal to all ages.	2003-06-22
US	42337084	RJHELXEY4EYG4	0306810387	58849120	Madame Curie: A Biography	Books	5	57	60	N	N	Great.	Madame Curie is a touching and honest biography.  It tells the perserving story of Marie Curie, a native Pole who would seem out of place in France and--being a woman in a more prejudice timeframe--in the scientific community in general.  Although this was the case, it did not stop her from becoming one of the most prolific and important scientists in the realm of physics and chemistry.<br />Within this book is held the tale of a woman who worked almost every single minute of her life in either the laboratory, the classroom, or her own home.  But she never faltered under pressure and endured inhospitable laboratory conditions (she was originally working in a shed to help discover radium, the element that created the field of radiation cancer treatment and spurred the field of nuclear science.<br />As a biographer, Eve Curie remains factual in content, allowing the reader to form an unbiased opinion of her mother.  She buttresses the book with personally letters to and from Marie Curie, which add a first hand account of certain aspects of her mother's life.<br />A must read for anyone looking for a heartwarming story.	2003-06-01
US	42337084	R8OJWTH4PSLMW	0785787283	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	2	6	40	N	N	Disappointing	Rarely can I say that a movie is better than the book that it is derived from; however, this was the case with Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers.<br />The book started off promising, detailing John Rico's struggles through boot camp and dabbling in the philosophy of citizenship.  But from there on it only held my interest sporadically.<br />The remainer of the book is less a novel and more of detailed military description.  The plot itself is meandering and often interupted by far too many details about the armed forces.  Heinlein is no wordsmith.  The actual battle scenes in the book are rather vague, generic, and stunted; the novel's action is like reading a comic book without the pictures.  Other than Rico, Heinlein's characters lack emotion or depth.  They are just cardboard-like figures that amount to no more than a motely association of names by the novel's conclusion.  The novel ends with a rather anti-climatic battle scene just does not seem to really resolve much in the \\"Bug\\" war.<br />Overall, it seems like that purpose of the novel is for Heinlein to offer his skewed philosophy of citizenship.  But ultimeatley, it is unclear whether he admires or condems the military, or what his greater purpose for the story was in the first place.<br />The novel, however, does have some promising parts which I believe were further elaborated on and better displayed in the movie of the same title.  Whoever wrote that screen-play took this skeleton of a novel and turned it into a descent film with more action and character analysis, and less military jargon.  I'd recomending watching the movie and skipping the book.	2003-05-25
US	42337084	R2UAXGRUUYFQM4	0075611228	769912208	Psychology: An Introduction (Brown & Benchmark)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Informative and Enjoyable Textbook	We used this text for my Introduction to Psychology class.  The book is very well organized and allows anyone to easily possess a grasp of the fundementals of psychology.<br />This was the only one my textbooks for my first semester that I actually didn't mind reading.  Lahey's prose is very readable and he includes several antecdotes to add flavor to the material.<br />I would recomend this one to anyone who has an academic or personal interest in psychology.  If you are a student, the book is an additional plus because it is available in paperback, which greatly cuts down on cost.	2003-04-13
US	42337084	RSVX2ZGTL24HC	0070685010	261542655	Student Study Guide to Accompany Raymond Chang: Chemistry	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Decent Review, But Several Errors	The book does provide a good review of the accomping material in Raymond Chang's Chemistry: Seventh Edition textbook.  However, it is obvious that less effort went into the student study guide, because there are numerous errors.  I've only worked through chaper four, and I have already noticed that the book contained at least two wrong answers to problems.  I also noticed that a questioned worded &quot;classify the followning compounds,&quot; failed to list the compounds to be definded and just had a blank space underneath it.  Overall, I wouldn't recomend buying this book; a Chemistry Cliffnotes or QuickReview book would probably be more helpful.  If you do buy the Student Study Guide use caution.	2003-04-08
US	42337084	R38I7MSQ0248O3	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Better than the Movie	If you have seen the Academy Award wining movie, \\"A Beautiful Mind,\\" you are already know the story of John Nash, right? Wrong. While even I have to admit that the movie was great, it was mostly fictional. If you want to discover the real life of John F. Nash, read Sylvia Nassar's biography of the same title.<br />The book is, of course, an actual biography, so may be missing some of the flare and magisty of the movie version. But what it lacks in showbiz fantasy it makes up in profound depth and real life emotion. The biography is not only the life of John Nash, but that of his wife Alicia, his family, and the mathematical community in general. <br />The book may be a bit slow moving in certain chapters, but it is well worth the wait. By the biography's end, the reader will have discovered the life of a man who is far more complex than the one depicted in the movie. A very inspiring read!	2003-04-08
US	42337084	R3S7Q9L3ZQ7V2I	0393308804	25935067	Wide Sargasso Sea: A Novel	Books	3	3	12	N	N	Ok, but not the best prequel to Jane Eyre	If you haven't read Jane Eyre, than do not start with this book.  If you have read Jane Eyre, than Wide Sargasso Sea may make some sense to you.<br />The book focuses on Mr. Rochester's former bride who, in Jane Eyre, currently resides in the attic.  The novel characterizes her childhood and depicts several reasons why the main character went insane.  The structure of this book is not simple to follow because chapters alternate in first person narration between characters.  Also, in the latter chapters, the novel's disorganized narration is used to display the onset of the main character's madness.<br />In high school, I wrote a paper that diagnosed the main character's (I can't remember her name) madness as schizophrenia.  Thus, if you are interested in psychology, you may find this novel interesting.<br />However, if you did read Jane Eyre, you probably won't find much connection with it in Wide Sargasso Sea, other than the main character and Mr. Roachester.  Also, in contrast to Jane Eyre, Wide Sargasso Sea is by no means a lite read, and is very depressing.	2003-03-04
US	42337084	R6IJ84K2WUF	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not great	Stephen Crane never actually fought in battle in the civil war (I don't think he even visited a battlefield), and this novel reflects his personal inexperience.  The book lacks comprehensive descriptions and relies too much on personificatin and ambiguity.  The prose itself is mediocre and only detracts from the novel's themes.<br />Personally, I wouldn't suggest reading this book unless it is a class requirement.  The novel's few moments of excitment are not displayed well at all.  It is disappointing to say that the &quot;Wishbone&quot; version of The Red Badge of Courage was more interesting than the actual book.  Truthfully, the only reason why I think that the novel is critically acclaimed is because there was a lack of literature focused on the civil war written during the time period.	2003-03-04
US	42337084	R36GUS3T7VEIGR	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Juicy Reading	Can you program an orange, which is appeeling on the outside and full of juicness on the inside, to behave in a clockwork manner. The novel, A Clockwork Orange, firmly states \\"No!\\"  <br />Although the main character, Alex, is ultraviolent in manner and his horrorshow activites make readers cringe, it is his choice to behave in this nature, no matter how shocking it may be.  Once he becomes programed to behave according to the laws and moral restrants, then he becomes a tool and is manipulated to the point that he is less of a human being.<br />I'm not going to go into any more specifics of the novel because they have already been firmly stated by previous reviewers.  However, I will say that I have not seen the movie version of the novel and frankly do not see how it could acturately portray the author's true intentions without the twenty-first chapter.  The final chapter makes the novel, in some sense, an allegory of youth and shows that people are not clockwork--they are not machines that solely follow the forces of good or evil.  Instead, people are living beings who do not necessarily follow a set path in life.  <br />A great book.  I only wish that I hadn't burned through the whole 192 pages in two days.	2002-04-01
US	42337084	R36LLFXC7K31E1	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A good Catch	Slaughterhouse five presents a refreshing view of the time-worn anti-war theme.  The novel skillfully blends history, science fiction, and humor to illustrate the story of Billy Pilgrim, a man who was never made for war.  Slaughterhouse five focuses more on Billy's life than the actually bombing of Dresden to show that war itself is not as dramatic as the people's lives who fought it and were changed by its effects.<br />If you are deciding whether to read Slaugherhouse five or Catch-22, pick Slaughterhouse five.  Though both books are similar in theme, Slaughterhouse five is shorter, easier to follow, and far more amusing and enjoyable than Catch-22.	2002-01-22
US	42337084	RTNAZYGLAOZQX	0684830515	781452863	The Sun Also Rises (Scribner Classics)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	The Lost Generation loses its Readers	The purpose of The Sun Also Rises is to convey the seemly pointless lives of the Lost Generation.  In order to illustrate the disillusionment of Jake, Brett, Cohn, and Bill, Hemingway presents an &quot;anti-hero&quot; novel.  It does not follow any <BR>exciting story plot; and at the novel's end, none of the characters have resolved any enduring conflicts or have <BR>gained any acclaim.  This technique achieves Hemingways' purpose of characterizing the &quot;Lost Generation,&quot; but distances his readers.  I read the book for my AP English class; I found it more interesting to analyze The Sun Also Rises than actually read.  Many of the book's techniques, such as symbol and Hemingways' terse but descriptive language, are not readilly visibly on a first reading.  However, if you didn't enjoy the story the first time around, I wouldn't suggest tackling it again.  <br />If you're looking for a book with a Lost Generation plot and an interesting story, turn to Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. If you want another Hemingway, A Farewell to Arms is slightly more interesting.  But The Old Man and the Sea is, in my opinion, Hemingway's best--and if you don't like it, at least it is short enough that you do not has to spend much time reading it.	2001-12-24
US	42337084	R87WVCL3FB5FX	0553241605	794174842	Mila 18	Books	3	3	10	N	N	A bit too much politics, not enough action	Mila 18 was not as much of a war novel as I expected it to be. This was the first Leon Uris book that I read and frankly I was somewhat disappointed. I expected that the novel was going to be a gripping story about a Jewish uprisal against the Nazi's during World War II. Unfortunately, the novel dealt more with policies imposed on the Jews by the Nazis. Although this information was interesting and delved into the psyches of the Jewish people under Nazi oppression, it was a bit too drawn out. The title of the book is misleading--the Jews only move into the bunker Mila 18 in about the last 150 pages of the book, at which they stage their uprising. The other 400 or so pages are about the Jews struggling to surive in the ghetto, but believing that they must resist German confrontation. The concluding portion of the book is actually exciting to read but much of the middle is rather boring. I also felt that the book would have been much more enjoyable if it had not tried to have been an epic novel. Instead of focusing around a few central characters, the books tries to portray the story from too many view points. Instead of directing the story around Andrei, the novel manifests the insight of Chris de Monti, Deborah, Wolf, Racheal, and even the Nazis (just to name a few). This causes the novel to lack transistion and effectiveness.	2001-08-27
