US	42397705	R1IHCZ0I6Q6MOP	0198645023	48940569	The Oxford-Duden Pictorial German and English Dictionary (English and German Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Fun Reference	A great noun builder for intermediate to advanced students of German (or German-speaking students of English), this book will help you attain a degree of precision in your vocabulary that would be difficult to achieve any other way without a substantial investment of time. The dictionary is arranged by subject areas varying from the highly technical (e.g. precision instrument parts) to the everyday (e.g. tableware). About one-fourth of the volume is taken up by the index which is eminently helpful if you want to quickly find the translation of a particular word without having to wade through the many subject areas. This edition did not incorporate the recent German spelling reform (Rechtschreibreform) which effected only a small proportion ofthe German vocabulary and for most purposes is a relatively minor distraction. Well-suited for browsing (a rare quality for a dictionary) and very different from most other language learning resources, consider this book a must-have for the serious language student.	2003-11-30
US	42397705	R31S4RAZ2ACTUE	0812079205	332437538	Mastering German: Level 2 (Foreign Service Institute)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Old School Still Works	Purchasing both Level I and II gives you 24 ninety-minute cassettes of audio which is quite a value if you like old-school &quot;overlearning&quot; type of instruction (i.e. rote memorization, repetition practice, lexical drills). It's a dated approach but does work well. The dialog portions are repeated with the student playing different roles in the dialog so the tapes do repeat themselves but are nonetheless a good value for learning German on your own. You'll spend triple the amount getting equivalent instruction from Pimsleur.	2003-11-29
US	42397705	R1O01MH6QGY7DY	0812073215	484320770	Mastering French: Hear it, Speak it, Write it, Read it - Level 1	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Old-School Audio-Lingual Approach	If old-school style rote drills and model sentence imitation works for you this course will be a great value. It's a bit dated (the course was developed in the early 1960's) but it works well. Unlike Barron's &quot;Mastering German&quot; tapes they there aren't as many translations of the drills and they don't slow down their dialogs for the student to grasp pronunciation; you'll be hearing them at normal conversation speeds right from the beginning. Six types of drills are presented along with some grammar notes and written exercises. There is also a Level II course with 12 ninety-minute tapes. The dialog portions are repeated with the student playing different roles in the dialog so the tapes do repeat themselves but are nonetheless a good value for learning French on your own. If you intend to use this course as your primary means of learning French on your own purchase a French grammar book to go along with it. A cheap option is Schaum's Outline Series &quot;French Grammar&quot; by Mary Crocker but there are many others.	2003-11-29
US	42397705	R3S2ACJG96U7MK	0812079183	606920849	Mastering French, Level 2: 12 Cassettes (Foreign Service Institute)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Outdated but okay.	Same format, native speakers, and instruction methodology as in Level I. The going will be a bit easier in this second part because by now you should have already mastered some of the pronunciation hurdles that trouble English speakers. Purchasing both Level I and II gives you 24 ninety-minute cassettes of audio which is quite a value if you like old-school &quot;overlearning&quot; type of instruction (i.e. rote memorization, repetition practice, lexical drills). It's a dated approach but still works well.	2003-11-29
US	42397705	R2OL8P5SG4I4J4	0812074807	289682145	Mastering Korean: Hear It, Speak It, Write It, Read It (Foreign Service Institute Language Series)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Dated	All of Barron's FSI series uses dated materials and brute force audio-lingual methods of instruction (i.e. rote memorization, <BR>repetition practice, lexical drills). This course is no exception but it shows its age more than most, particularly with the emphasis on formal honorifics and outdated modes of expression. The more expensive Pimsleur Korean course practically does the same thing. Nonetheless there is value here, particularly given the lack of variety of Korean language learning materials. Just plan on doing some follow-up work unless you have Korean friends that can help you along the way. With the exception of the introductory section this course closely follows the format found in Barron's &quot;Mastering German&quot; but is quite different from the format in &quot;Mastering Italian.&quot;	2003-11-29
US	42397705	R3G174ITK2AR3S	0812078675	103336963	Mastering Italian: with 15 Compact Discs (Mastering Series: Level 1 CD Packages)	Books	3	29	31	N	N	Ugly but thorough.	The instruction in this course, particularly in the beginning, borders on the awful. It makes learning Italian much harder than it needs to be. The use of phonetic symbols, albeit relatively infrequent, was totally unnecessary. On the plus side there is a lot of audio (15 CDs) and the course is very thorough in teaching pronunciation. Living Language and Pimsleur offer better instruction but far less audio. &quot;Mastering Italian&quot; is also fairly decent as a stand-alone course. Purchase this course only if you are patient and want to slowly be walked through learning Italian. It does get easier the further you progress. After completing this course you'll know more Italian than you would have with other comparably priced courses but may wonder if it would have been more worthwhile to have shelled out the additional money for other courses and not have had to struggled so much. Since this course had been developed for diplomats it is intended for serious students of the language. Tourists wanting to learn Italian should go with Berlitz or some of the other phrasebook-type audio courses for travelers. The CDs are not suitable for use while driving and are designed to be used simultaneously with the textbook.<br />&quot;Mastering Italian&quot; diverges quite a bit from the usual audio-lingual format found in Barron's &quot;Mastering French,&quot; &quot;Mastering German,&quot; or &quot;Mastering Korean&quot; series. It has less emphasis on drills and more on the technical aspects of pronunciation (e.g. tongue flaps, intonation patterns, etc). The Pimsleur courses totally ignore these technical aspects yet are far more effective in teaching natural pronunciation. This is an ugly course but it clears the hurdle for three stars because it is very thorough.	2003-11-29
US	42397705	R3S4QWNATOS60E	0812073525	304160751	Mastering German: Level 1 (Foreign Service Institute Language     Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Pretty good, warts and all.	If old-school audiolingual style rote drills and model sentence imitation works for you this is the course you want. It's a bit dated but the approach still works well. There is also a Level II course with 12 ninety-minute tapes to follow-up with. If you've tried other courses in the FSI series this one roughly follows the format of Barron's &quot;Mastering French&quot; and &quot;Mastering Korean&quot; but is quite a bit different than that of &quot;Mastering Italian.&quot; You have to be tolerant of some of the faults that have been pointed out by other reviewers and be ready for lots of repetitive exercises and drills. The side-by-side English translations of the German dialogs were particularly helpful.	2003-11-29
US	42397705	RNB8941FA2VA2	0415160499	108195163	Concise Compendium of the World's Languages	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Many errors in an otherwise commendable effort.	This overview is an abbreviated version of the two-volume Compendium of the Worlds Languages by the same author containing about one hundred of the latter's three hundred language entries. For this volume some of the entries have been expanded and amplified. Languages having a written tradition are accompanied by verses 1 - 8 of the Gospel of John in their native orthography.<br />After an introductory sketch and script description, each language entry contains a brief section on phonology followed by a section morphology and syntax. The phonology section discusses palatalization, stops, aspirates, and fricatives, short and long vowels, diphthongs, stress, and the use of tones. The morphology and syntax section covers noun usage (case, gender, etc), verb forms (e.g. tenses, voices, moods), adjectives, pronouns (their forms, declensions, etc), numerals, and word order. An appendix of scripts and a bibliography complete the book.<br />This is an accessible work in comparative languages although some basic familiarity with grammatical terminology is assumed on the part of the reader. Some of the phonological errors in the first volume have been dealt with but many others remain. Most of the widely spoken and contemporarily relevant tongues are covered and most language families are represented by at least one entry. A similar volume by Kenneth Katzner (&quot;Languages of the World&quot;) covers more languages but not in the linguistic context that Campbell follows. Purchase Campbell's volume if you are interested in brief phonological and morphological snapshots of a language; purchase Katzner's volume if linguistic aspects do not appeal you as much as the distribution and historical development of its speakers. Given the errors, however, do not use this volume as an authoritative reference.	2003-07-06
US	42397705	R2OGCHRJNFW8JK	0966075005	78404967	Chinese Characters: A Genealogy and Dictionary (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	5	32	33	N	Y	The swiss army knife of Chinese character dictionaries.	You'll might need several dictionaries to be comfortable learning Chinese. This simultaneously phonetic and semantic-based dictionary and character genealogy is too unique not to be in your repertoire. Not only can you search by stroke, radical, pinyin, or English spelling, but also by looking for the part of the character you do regognize and going from there, or by pronounciation, or by bopomofo. Its format is perfect for learning characters and their roots. Presented are 182 root ideographs from which 4000 other characters are derived. Find the character for horse (&quot;ma&quot;) and you'll find associated terms which contain that character (e.g. saddle) as well as homophones which have nothing to do with horses but sound somewhat similar to &quot;ma&quot; (e.g. jade, scold, mom). Very well done.	2003-05-31
US	42397705	R1LMAH31BU60VO	0198602588	17940103	The Starter Oxford Chinese Dictionary	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great beginners reference, especially for self-study.	Don't let the fact that this is a beginner's dictionary lead you to believe that it is wimpy and overly simplstic. You will indeed need several dictionarys anyway if you are going to undertake a study of Chinese; the beginner, especially those who are attempting self-study, can do no better than starting here. If you are a tourist going to China this is the one dictionary you want; its small, cheap, easy to use, and concentrates on commonly used words and expressions.<br />The dictionary is bi-directional with the Chinese entries arranged alphabeticaly in pinyin romanization accompaied by the simplified Chinese character equivalents that have been used in mainland China for the past 50 years. There are brief sections on grammar, the use of tones in spoken Mandarin, radical and character indices, and lots of explanatory notes regarding usage.<br />As you continue your study of Chinese you will eventually outgrow this dictionary. Be that as it may there are some tools one uses more than others and the beginning student of Chinese will turn to this starter dictionary more often than whatever else is likely to be present in his or her toolbox.	2003-05-31
US	42397705	R35IXFBEKQ6ZFK	0812096894	120348748	Learn Chinese the Fast and Fun Way (Fast and Fun Way Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	For the tourist or casual learner	This book is a good choice for learning spoken Mandarin in preparation for a trip to China. You'll learn a lot of phrases you need to know as a tourist and the book is more thorough than a simple phrasebook. You'll also learn how to put sentences together and by the end of the course you will develop a good feel for the language. Four ninety-minute tapes accompany the cassette version. Though professionally made, too much time is spent by the narrator walking you through the book. The time would have been better spent by supplementing the dialogs. The dialogs themselve are invaluable. The book uses romanized Chinese (pinyin) and therefore you will not learn how to interpret Chinese characters. Although the book comes with a nice fold-out dictionary the Oxford Starter Chinese Dictionary would make a wonderful accompanyment to this volume. This is about the easiest introduction to spoken Chinese that can be found.	2003-05-31
US	42397705	R32GRN8MPCCZP3	0500281564	17890550	The Story of Writing	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An overview of writing systems.	A richly illustrated nontechnical introduction to the history of writing. The author briefly touches upon the relationship between language and script and the challenges involved in the classification of writing systems but the bulk of the book is on presenting different families of scripts and accounts of thier development. The sections on extinct writing, such as cuneiform, and on undeciphered scripts were interesting but the book's chief attribute are the illustrations of alphabets, inscriptions, and glyphs, many of which are interpreted for the reader. A similar volume for the more linguistically inclined is &quot;A History of Writing&quot; by Steven Robert Fischer. The author, himself not without contraversy, provides the technical precision that is lacking in Robinson's book and has lots of examples of scripts as well.	2003-05-31
US	42397705	R2ZPMJ96ZM6BXI	0671579428	595398213	Pimsleur Polish	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Tak! This is the one.	This is definitely the way to start learning Polish on your own. Like all Pimsleur programs its expensive and is not geared towards building a large vocabulary but it is unsurpassed in helping you develop a good speaking proficiency and you will remember what you've learned for a longer period of time compared to other methods of instruction. Use this course as a starter and follow it up with Boleslaw Mazur's Colloquial Polish (with cassette accompaniment) to further develop your vocabulary, reading, and grammar skills.<br />If you've used Pimsleur tapes before the format will be familiar to you. Among other things you'll learn some key words (please, thank you, etc), how to ask for directions, and how to set up a lunch or dinner date. Its not much but you'll learn it well. Polish is full of awkward consonant combinations and none of the other courses is better than Pimsleur in helping you deal with these. This is only a 10-lesson course (about 30 minutes per lesson) which is far too brief. Hopefully the Pimsleur folks will put out a Comprehensive Program (30 lessons) for Polish as they have for other languages.<br />Do not purchase this program if you are going to Poland soon and just want to know a few key phrases for the trip. There is little provided in this regard and youll be better off with a travel-oriented phrasebook. If you already know some Russian you should also skip this one and start with Mazur. But if you are keen on developing a speaking proficiency that, with some follow-up work, will impress a Pole, this is the place to start.	2003-03-09
US	42397705	R1W1YPL6ZDNNYL	0781805708	729983628	The Polish-English Dictionary of Slang and Colloquialism (English and Polish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Words you'll hear in a Polish movie but not in a classroom.	There is no way to really get to know a culture without knowledge of its idioms and colloquialisms.  This book fills a void in colloquial Polish material available for English speakers and is better than many similar slang dictionaries that can be found for the more widely spoken languages.  It has phonetics to help with pronunciation, an English index to make the dictionary bi-directional, sample sentences in Polish and English, and two levels of warning for vulgar expressions. Usually only the masculine form of the noun or adjective is given but this is not a detraction except for beginning Polish learners (even so a beginner would be comfortable with this dictionary).  The origins of some of the expressions are not obvious for those unfamiliar with Polish culture and some explanation would have been helpful. Also at times too many seldom used English synonyms are provided for a given Polish expression. This might confuse a Polish reader trying to learn English slang. Nonetheless the dictionary is very worthwhile. The book is about 400 pages with over 5,000 entries. Widawski provides us with a true lexical treasure of street talk which had not been systematized this way before.	2003-01-10
US	42397705	R34VKB7622QGWS	0835125335	444603662	I Can Read That: A Traveler's Introduction to Chinese Characters (English and Chinese Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Quickie Tour of Chinese Characters	Not exactly a text on Chinese characters, this pocketbook is a great starter for those who have a curiosity of how Chinese writing works and don't want to be burdened with the extraneous info found in a serious textbook. Seventy-one characters frequently encountered by tourists are introduced but you'll wind up learning much more than that because many of these characters are also used in combination to form new compound words. The format is well-designed and makes the book fun and easy to use without being too simplistic. You'll learn the traditional and simplified form of the character, how these characters are rendered in the Western alphabet (i.e. the pinyin), and, thankfully towards the back of the book, how to write the character. Throughout the book are cultural tidbits and photographs of signs, ticket stubs, stamps, and advertisements which contains the characters introduced. This little book will take the intimidation out of trying to learn what far too many Westerners find as beyond their capacity to understand.	2003-01-08
US	42397705	R1VCLVJC3HLUYC	0804809186	210079196	The Chinese Language for Beginners	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Just Get A Kid	This booklet is geared for children but is ideal for the adult who wants to team up with a youngster to learn a few basic Chinese characters. Approximately forty simple characters are introduced along with instruction on how to read Chinese sentences. Storybook- type illustrations are reminiscent of those found in fairy-tale books and the English explanations, which are usually accompanied with a brief story, are written such that a second-grader can easily follow along. Particularly enjoyable were the explanations on why some of the characters are written the way they are. There is also instruction on how the Chinese words are spoken.<br />If you want a quickie tour of some basic Chinese characters try Julie Mazel Sussman's \\"I Can Read That.\\" Her pocketbook teaches you how to recognize 71 Chinese characters that are frequently encountered by tourists. But if you have a young son or daughter, or grandchild, and would like to explore this beautiful language together them this book is definitely the one you want.	2003-01-05
US	42397705	RYCELLA4CR72G	0071400443	338359450	Arabic Calligraphy: Naskh Script for Beginners	Books	3	44	46	N	N	Arabic Calligraphy 101	This introductory workbook is for those who have no previous knowledge of Arabic and want to try writing in Arabic writing for the first time. Writing is in this case a misnomer because as the title suggests the emphasis is on calligraphy. The workbook, which is about the size of a standard magazine, starts with how to make a reed pen for calligraphy. The next part concentrates on the mufradaat (single letters), followed by murakkabaat (joined letters) and kalimaat (words). The book finishes with a gallery of beautiful examples of naskh calligraphy taken from throughout history. The presentation within each section is jumbled and unsystematic but not so much so that the text isn't worthwhile. The book is especially good at depicting the correct stroke order and the letters are large sized which a great help when just starting out. If you are a novice you will probably be happy with this book but will have preferred a more methodical, step-by-step presentation of the material.<br />For those without who want to learn to read as well write in Arabic The Arabic Alphabet by Awde and Samano is about as good of an introduction as one can find, however it doesn't have the beautiful examples of scripts and the large-size lettering that Arabic Calligraphy has (both books are cheap so go ahead and get the two of them.) If Arabic Calligraphy stimulates your appetite for more check out the richly illustrated Arabic Script: Styles, Variants, and Calligraphic Adaptations by Gabriel Mandel Khan. It depicts many of the styles besides naskh, traces their historical development, and discusses the latent symbolism that is present in many of these beautiful forms.	2002-09-08
US	42397705	R1CZSTVVUGPRPC	0226476936	983388328	The Political Language of Islam (Exxon Lecture Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Work of First Class Scholarship	Lewis's works are known for their depth of analysis while simultaneously being presented with a simple elegance that makes them approachable to those of us who are not Arabists or Islamicists. In this work he expounds on the language of political discourse in Arabia, Persia, Turkey and Islamic lands in general. Political vocabulary more or less confines and defines the range of this discourse so understanding the language is not mere semantics but indeed critical to the understanding of the development of Islamic political thought.<br />This short book (116 pages plus 52 pages of detailed notes and references, including an index) traces the etymology behind key political concepts in Islam. If you are an informed reader of current Mideast events encountering words like jihad, ayatollah, imam, shaykh, and fatwa and have a curiosity as to what these words are all about, under what context did they originally appear, and why they have contemporary relevance, you will find this unique volume hard to put down. The book is about the concept behind the word and its historical development more so than philological aspects, although the latter is also well covered. Originally published in 1988, an update reflecting the current state of affairs would be welcome. For example Islamic fundamentalists describe modern society as \\"jahili,\\" a term originally used as a descriptor of Arabia before the time of the Prophet and related to the Arabic word for ignorance, \\"jahiliyya.\\" Lewis' thoughts on how Muslims have dealt with attempting to end godless jahiliyya in the past and how it might apply to militant Islam today would have particular relevance as we try to understand the motivations behind the events of September 11th.	2002-08-18
US	42397705	R9L3VOIDGEYT7	0658000748	176246899	The Ultimate French Review and Practice: Mastering French Grammar for Confident Communication	Books	5	150	151	N	N	Matchless Combo of Grammar and Practical Everyday French	This book is the best self-contained source for French grammar to come around in a long time. It is particularly good if you learned French through self-study from a variety of sources and want a single volume that encompasses all the essential grammar you need to know. There are lots of exercises (all with answers provided), culture notes, examples from newspaper advertisements, and a section on idiomatic usage. The only caveat is that you should already know French at least to the two-year level. The book is also a bit weak on composition, i.e. letters, essays, and the like. In a formal correspondence, for example, you may want to write using the conditional instead of the present indicative (e.g. je pourrais rather than je peux) and more of this sort of information would have been helpful in a review such as this one.<br />This is not introductory material so if you are just starting out and want a similar volume try Cassell's Contemporary French by Valerie Worth-Stylianou. Its out of print but frequently available through Amazon's Marketplace sellers. The Cassell's book is geared for beginner and intermediate French learners and is every bit as comprehensive as the Ultimate French Review. The Cassell's book is better at building a vocabulary, idioms, and writing in French, but if you've been there before and just want an in-depth review without the burden of too much \\"French 101\\" stuff the Ultimate French Review and Practice is definitely the way to go.	2002-07-15
US	42397705	R3H0PEKVTB2F2T	0806512717	354234505	How To Learn Any Language: Quickly, Easily, Inexpensively, Enjoyably and on Your Own	Books	4	85	85	N	Y	Good Kick-Start for a Self-Study Foreign Language Program	An easy, enlivening, and at times goofy read, this book should be the first reading assignment for high-school foreign language teachers who seek to inspire budding polyglots as well as for those who are embarking on a self-study foreign language program. Farber's `multiple track attack' emphasizes hitting your brain from multiple sources but in a systematic way to build both retentiveness and comfort with the new language. This book is written at a basic level and can be read in one sitting so don't expect too much in terms of technical details - it is more about developing simple and useful learning techniques and Farber's personal insights on language learning.<br />Amazon has lots of reviews of Farber's book so here are some added personal findings. The book was published in 1991 and needs to be updated to incorporate the use of computers in his `multiple track attack.' Farber is very much on the money in his high praise of Pimsleur tapes but if you purchase a Pimsleur course, even one which covers reading, be sure to augment this with good reading/vocabulary materials (the Pimsleur tapes are not accompanied by printed transcripts). Pimsleur's strong point is in developing a speaking proficiency more so than in teaching you grammer or how to read. If you plan on writing in a foreign language which doesn't use the Roman alphabet (e.g. Arabic, Japanese) you'll need to augment Farber's recommended repertoire with a book containing writing instruction. Chinese and Korean characters, for example, are written with a certain stroke order that you'll want to emulate from the very beginning before bad penmanship habits become entrenched. An enjoyable feature of this book is Farber's spin on individual languages (for example which languages are easy to learn, which are difficult, and why you should really master French if you plan on studying multiple languages).<br />Definitely recommended for anyone who plans on starting a self-study foreign language program.	2002-06-07
US	42397705	R17M0QUBLX8YBP	0198645155	90819970	The Oxford-Duden Pictorial Spanish and English Dictionary (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Superb reference	A great noun builder for intermediate to advanced students of Spanish (or Spanish-speaking students of English), this book will help you attain a degree of precision in your vocabulary that would be difficult to achieve any other way without a substantial investment of time. The dictionary is arranged by subject areas varying from the highly technical (e.g. precision instrument parts) to the everyday (e.g. tableware). About one-fourth of the volume is taken up by the index which is eminently helpful if you want to quickly find the translation of a particular word without having to wade through the many subject areas. The book identifies occasional word differences between Castillian Spanish and other idioms (e.g. Mexican Spanish) as well as between British and American English. Well-suited for browsing (a rare quality for a dictionary) and very different from most other language learning resources, consider this book a must-have for the serious language student or professional working abroad.	2002-05-19
US	42397705	RJCX792J43FF2	0195827856	577230726	The Oxford-Duden Pictorial English & Chinese Dictionary	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great even without pinyin	A great noun builder for intermediate to advanced students of Chinese (or Chinese-speaking students of English), this book will help you attain a degree of precision in your vocabulary that would be difficult to achieve any other way without a substantial investment of time. The dictionary is arranged by subject areas varying from the highly technical (e.g. precision instrument parts) to the everyday (e.g. tableware). There is no romanization, however. The simplified character set is used throughout to reflect contemporary mainland usage. About one-fourth of the volume is taken up by the index which is helpful if you want to quickly find the translation of a particular word without having to wade through the many subject areas. The Chinese portion of the index is arranged in the traditional radical-based format. English speakers could have been benefited from the addition of alphabetical pinyin-based entries in the index. Well-suited for browsing (a quality that is rare for a dictionary) and very different from most other language learning resources, this book is indispensable for the serious language student or professional working abroad.	2002-05-19
US	42397705	RP8YZJFV7FKWO	1861891016	224597696	History of Writing (Globalities)	Books	5	41	44	N	N	Great intro to epigraphy and the history of scripts	Remarkable for its breadth, this work presents a concise history of writing authored by a linguist well known for his work on the Rongorongo script of Easter Island (Oceania's only pre-twentieth century writing system) and with the enigmatic Linear B script of Crete. Fischer's approach is essentially to circumscribe writing systems to a geographical area and then discuss their evolution within a chronological context. The author is adroit at synthesizing and drawing parallels from disparate writing systems but the books principal strength is in unfolding the development of scripts and exploring how graphic expressions of speech are manifested in various logographic, syllabographic, and alphabetic writing systems. The development of Babylonian cuneiform from its ancestral pictographs, the Phoenician and Etruscan roots of modern Latin scripts, and the evolution of the Standard Arabic script from its Nabataen origins serve as examples. The book is well endowed with illustrations of scripts, alphabets, inscriptions, glyphs, typefaces, and other source material. Linguistic terms are explained thoroughly as they are being introduced however the book would have benefited from inclusion of a glossary. Engagingly written, this book will appeal to anyone interested in linguistics and the historical development of writing systems.	2002-02-26
US	42397705	R2M98FZ7T12PM8	0471159638	305427596	The Origin of Language: Tracing the Evolution of the Mother Tongue	Books	4	22	26	N	N	An interesting thesis fortified by results from genetics	Comparative linguists can be grouped into two mutually antagonistic camps: the &quot;splitters&quot; who maintain distinction between language families unless rigorous criterion are met and &quot;lumpers&quot; who readily accept the grouping of disparate languages into a single language family on the basis of having somewhat minimal commonality. Ruhlen's controversial work is an engaging account of how &quot;lumpers&quot; have developed a model which distills all extant languages into twelve language families that are direct descendants of a postulated mother tongue.<br />Roughly two-thirds of the book involves the classification of languages into families and into families of families. The author does this by presenting tables containing selected words in various languages and asking the reader to classify the languages based on similarity.  Ruhlen continues on this sort of path until arriving at the final direct descendants of the mother tongue. Throughout this journey Ruhlen guides the reader to the inner workings of language classification. The final third of the book is an attempt at justification of his classification method citing both genetics and archeology as sources of corroborative evidence while also citing sources of disagreement with other linguists.<br />Ruhlen's work is an insightful introduction to historical linguistics for the lay reader. Unfortunately, the book at times seemed to have less to do with historical linguistics and more with serving as a platform by which to blast opposing schools of thought who believe Ruhlen's judgement as to what constitutes a cognate is more subjective than is desirable. These frequent attacks were a significant detraction from what was otherwise an enjoyable read. Accepting the logic behind Ruhlen's language taxonomy at times required a significant leap of faith and he was unconvincing in dealing with the time depth issues pertaining to linguistic reconstruction. However ethnographic surveys of blood proteins and other genetic data indicate that the movement of peoples from an ancestral homeland in Africa can be reconstructed and this reconstruction corresponds to Ruhlen's linguistic family tree. This remarkable degree of correspondence is compelling evidence that Ruhlen is on the right track.	2002-01-12
US	42397705	RDVSHPYWBM07W	0789207109	178548380	Arabic Script: Styles, Variants, and Calligraphic Adaptations	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	An insight to Arabic culture through its calligraphy	This richly illustrated volume on Arabic calligraphy is truly a feast for the eyes. The book begins with a brief introduction on the evolution of the Arabic script from its pre-Islamic origins to its blossoming into the many calligraphic forms we see today. Examples of the script throughout its development are provided, from early Nabatean scripts to modern attempts at introducing capital letters. Particularly interesting is the letter from the prophet Muhammad to Mundar ibn Saui (the script used by Muhammad is a bit different than contemporary Arabic script). In the next section, each letter is individually given at least a two-page discourse on various calligraphic forms, the symbology associated with the letter, its current use, how the letter relates to the Qur'an, and pronunciation of the letter (e.g. the Arabic letter 'shin' is used as an abbreviation for path and to Sufi mystics 'shin' symbolizes personal destiny). The final section shows examples of texts, manuscripts, and other sources depicting the wide range of calligraphic styles. Examples include excerpts from Qur'ans, from medieval-era scientific treatises, from talismans, and from other sources dating from antiquity to the present. The glossary at the end of the book, though too brief, is quite helpful.<br />This book is more about the artistry that is inherent in the Arabic script rather than on teaching the reader how to write Arabic letters - and you don't need to know Arabic to fully appreciate the artistry. Khan's work will be a welcome addition to the library of anyone interested in Islamic art, culture, or the Arabic language.	2002-01-05
US	42397705	R35M6YCGFAPDJV	0658009494	925971012	Teach Yourself Beginner's Urdu Script	Books	4	30	31	N	Y	Unusual format but the book works	Good Urdu learning material can be hard to come by. Delacy hits the mark with a self-contained introduction that serves as an ideal base for launching into further studies of Urdu. The book presents Urdu letters in bite-size units with the emphasis on character recognition and handwriting. There are lots of reading and writing exercises, all with the answers provided. You'll learn about how, like Arabic, these letters change depending on if the letter is first or last in a word or somewhere in between. You'll also learn how to read and compose simple words.<br />Here are a few assorted findings. There are two styles of Urdu script: nasta'liq and naskh. Nasta'liq is a bit more intimidating than naskh although the latter is also common to Arabic and Persian. Delacy utilizes the nasta'liq in his text which may cause you to curse at first but in the end you'll be glad that the book is presented that way. Not only is nasta'liq is the more common Urdu script but its compact, slanted form gives written Urdu a distinct character compared to other languages that utilize Perso-Arabic scripts. Also, the letters are not presented in the order of the Urdu alphabet nor are letters which appear similar in shape presented together as a group, as intuition would suggest, but rather spread out throughout the book. This arrangement is a bit weird but it works. If you already know Arabic you'll simultaneously find a lot of commonality and difference with Urdu. For example, you'll find many of the same letters in Arabic as well as some letters that look the same but aren't. There are also different rules for connecting letters when constructing a word. <br />One of the book's chief benefits is that it will give you a head start when undertaking more advanced studies in Urdu. You will already know how to read the language and will not have to bother with messy transliteration schemes that use the roman alphabet (along with funky tildes, macrons, and umlauts) to teach pronunciation. The author does employ such a scheme but you'll need a native speaker to help you correctly pronounce Urdu. The chief benefit, however, is that this inexpensive book fulfills its purpose of teaching you how to read and write Urdu in an easy to follow manner.	2002-01-01
US	42397705	R35FCSM2FIHAGR	0415002281	132257197	Dictionary of Chinese Symbols: Hidden Symbols in Chinese Life and Thought (Routledge Dictionaries)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Delightful	This is a noteworthy volume from someone who for five decades had been one of the worlds preeminent Sinologists. The late Wolfram Eberhard, a former instructor at Peking National University, unfolds the story behind over 400 Chinese characters giving the reader a vivid insight to Chinese life and thought.<br />The book starts with a ten-page introduction to Chinese symbolism and how the Chinese conception of words differ from views held by the West. The remainder of the book is an alphabetical listing of important symbols written in the form of an English-Chinese dictionary. Each entry contains the English word for a particular symbol, the Chinese equivalent (using both Chinese characters and Peking romanization) and an explanation as to why the ideas behind the symbol are important. Many entries are multiple paragraphs long and are accompanied by black-and-white illustrations from Chinese texts. Among the entries are numbers, colors, plants and animals, mythological characters, the cardinal directions, body parts, bodily functions, and several concepts that are uniquely Chinese. While the title implies the book is a dictionary this is a bit of a misnomer. Eberhard uses the dictionary format as a vehicle to introduce the reader to the cultural symbolism that lies behind selected Chinese characters. You will not find any detail on radicals, stroke order, stroke counts, or pronunciation as you might in a more typical language-oriented Chinese dictionary.<br />It would be impossible to comprehensively survey even the most common elements of Chinese symbology. The author himself states that his selections follow from a few basic themes such as health, happiness, and longevity. For a volume of its size and given the level of detail that it contains, Eberhard's work is about as comprehensive as one can get. The only real detraction is the lack of an index. Language students might also be disappointed by the lack of pin-yin romanization. The book is wonderful as a stand-alone primer on Chinese culture or as an adjunct text for students of the Chinese language who desire an intimate knowledge of the latent symbology that accompanies many Chinese words.	2001-12-30
US	42397705	R1VN609VCU9USR	0818404302	768119533	The Arabic Alphabet: How to Read & Write It	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Demystifies the Arabic Alphabet	Whether you are just curious about Arabic letters or are contemplating a serious study of the language Awde and Samano's user-friendly book is a great starting place. By the time you finish its ninety-five pages you will have acquired a modest reading/writing capability and will be able to recognize words and letters that follow the standard naskh script that is found in most Arabic books and newspapers. The book is self-contained and uncomplicated - great if all you want is to know the alphabet and don't want to be burdened with extraneous info. For those who intend to undertake a serious study of the Arabic language, mastering this book will enable you to bypass those awful transliteration and romanization schemes that accompany many introductory texts. The book also deals with ligatures (special combinations of letters) that other texts often omit. Inexpensive and easy to follow, you cant go wrong with this one.	2001-12-29
US	42397705	R3FXDH7NNFU12J	0198151500	279605936	Writing Arabic: A Practical Introduction to Ruq'ah Script	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Good, but outdated	First published in 1953, this text is showing its age. Its chief attribute is that it focuses on the cursive ruqah script as opposed to the printed naskh that is found in many instructional texts. If you want to achieve competence in understanding handwritten Arabic the material here is great for helping you reach that goal. Most of the examples are given with printed and handwritten forms side-by-side which is quite helpful. The pedagogy, however, is archaic and there are a number of more recently published books that provide better instruction on developing good Arabic penmanship. The book also has annoying transliterations which detracts from the emphasis on writing. Despite being an introductory text purchase this book only if you can already read some Arabic. Otherwise try Alif-Baa (Brustad, al-Batal, &amp; al-Tonsi) as suggested by a previous reviewer or Mastering Arabic (Wightwick &amp; Gaafar). Both show how to form cursive strokes in a user-friendly way and have accompanying audio material. If you intend to use this book as a stand-alone introduction to Arabic writing you will likely be disappointed.	2001-12-19
US	42397705	RGCLT5IR2W7ID	0415118093	675032666	The Languages of the World	Books	5	55	59	N	N	killer handbook	This is a well-written handbook to find out what language is spoken where and the history of its speakers. There are snippets of approximately 200 carefully chosen passages of representative literature shown both in their native alphabets and in English translation. A fun read, great reference, and very relevant to current events.<br />The book is divided into three parts: an introduction to language families of the world, a listing of the individual languages themselves grouped in geographic order, and an alphabetically-arranged country-by-country survey of the languages spoken in each country. The section on language families describes relationships among language groups, a bit on the history of the people who speak them, and the geographical distribution of each family. The bulk of the book is in the second section on the individual languages. Each language is (usually) given a two-page description consisting of passages in their native script, along with an English translation, followed by a brief history of the language, its speakers, and the regions where the language is spoken. Examples of words that have found their way into English usage are also provided. The country survey consists of paragraph-long descriptions of the languages spoken in each country along with the number of speakers for each language.<br />Katzner's book is geared for the general reader who may be more interested on how languages relate to the countries where they are spoken rather than the morphology and syntax of a particular language. Those who prefer a more linguistic-oriented approach should try Concise Compendium of the Worlds Languages by George L. Campbell. It is as well written as Katzner's book but contains more detail on phonology and grammar.  Both have excellent depictions of native alphabets with Katzner using examples from classic literature (e.g. Flaubert in French, Iqbal in Urdu, and Tagore in Bengali) whereas Campbell uses a passage from the Gospel of St John to illustrate the written form of the language. If your interest includes knowing what consonants are affricates, fricatives, or semi-vowels then look into Campbell's book. But if you want to know a little something about who speaks Pashto or about what are the dominant languages in India or other similar sorts of information then Katzner's book is for you.	2001-12-03
