US	42496670	RBD6BLT79LTWF	0312340958	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Moving	Deep and honest, THOUGH THE NARROW GATE is the compelling story of a woman who made what might seem a strange choice at the age of 17 -- to enter a convent -- and how it changed her life and furthured/hindered(?) her spiritual journey.  Anyone who has longed to encounter the Divine will resonate with Ms. Armstrong's well-written narrative.  I enjoyed it very much.<br /><br />Side note: I more recently came across the \\"sequel\\" (the second attempt): THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE.  It is also excellent, and even more mature.	2005-06-30
US	42496670	R12861LDY1N4H0	0553374648	361411464	Fear of Wine: An Introductory Guide to the Grape	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nothing to fear	I'm a wine person anyday, but I've been separated for a year or so from my wine-loving family, and suddenly I'm going crazy to learn more about the divine juice I grew up with.  I checked this book out from the library because it was the only wine book they had; I thought the title was silly and I didn't expect to get much out of it. <br /> <br />Maybe I was starting to turn into a wine snob; this book is fun!  The title refers to a cultural phenomenon: wine is chic now, so those \\"in the know\\" are revered by those who want to be, and the wannabes spend their time around wine worrying about how wine-smart they are instead of enjoying their wine.   <br /> <br />With this is mind, the book is devoted to teaching anyone who wants to know enough to feel comfortable making decisions about wine, tasting it in public, and enjoying the hell out of it.  I'm not exactly a novice -- nor am I an expert -- and I learned a lot!  Better: I really enjoyed the read.  <br /> <br />There are little cartoons every other page; they're silly, but they can be cute, too, and they serve as mnemonics for those of us who need a little help remembering all that info.   <br /> <br />There's only one thing \\"wrong\\" with FEAR OF WINE: it needs to be updated!	2005-06-18
US	42496670	RT0NEQCOE7HR3	0060545674	957972911	My Invented Country: A Memoir	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Perfect potpourri	If you're a fan of Isabel Allende, read this book to understand more about her, and about her various novels.  Even if you've never read any of her work (I haven't read it all yet), get yourself a glass of wine and kick back on the porch with this rambling, amusing, and absolutely readable memoir.  It's a heavily subjective (of course -- witness the title) account of a country, a people, and a person, and it's entirely wonderful.  Expect passion, politics, sarcasm, sterotypes, humor, history, legends, love, compassion, and contradictions.  Come to think of it, what else WOULD you expect?	2005-06-16
US	42496670	R4QWU2F7Z1SWU	158747008X	330651040	Dear Judge (Kid's Letters to the Judge)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wake up call	DEAR JUDGE broke my heart many times.  I have never been through a divorce or on any side of a custody battle, but I have seen the long- and short-term effects on friends at school (from elementary up through college), children I work with, and on my own husband, who went through a very messy divorce and custody battle between his parents, beginning at age 12. <br /> <br />Reading these plainly presented letters to a family court judge from children of all ages, I found myself beginning to understand what it must be like to be so powerless and so scared.  The letters come from children in situations ranging from not-quite-right-anymore to terrifying and abusive, but the reader gets the sense that all of these children have been wronged in the same way: their true selves have been ignored.   <br /> <br />Adults forget what it is like to be a child, and we also forget that children notice and absorb nearly EVERYTHING we say and do.  These letters prove how much kids really know, and how much they can teach their parents and caretakers, the justice system, and society in general.  All parents should read this book, most particularly those who have divorced a spouse with whom they had children.  And older kids might benefit from these letters, too.    They might be helped by reading what other kids have gone through, and knowing that they are not alone. <br /> <br />The book's format is very simple: two pages of introduction telling why it was written, followed by over a hundred letters to the judge.  I thought initially that it might benefit from some in-depth discussion and concrete suggestions for adults, but perhaps that is best left to therapists and the deeper books they write.  These letters, unadorned, are incredibly powerful, and if you have ever loved a child, they will touch your heart and change the way you think about kids.	2005-04-15
US	42496670	R3K7JF414R850P	1587470411	132100412	How to Go to Visitation without Throwing Up	Books	5	2	3	N	N	By kids, for kids -- and parents, too	Written by a \\"little\\" boy who sounds wiser than his years, this book for children of divorce is a perfect combination of empathy, practicality, and distraction.   <br /> <br />Headings like \\"Does Anyone Like Visitation?\\", \\"Why Kids Don't Want to Go,\\" and \\"Why Kids Worry\\" address the real issues kids face when they have to (as Joshua, the author, put it) \\"leave one home to go to another.\\"  In clear language, they highlight feelings kids really have about visitation, and, in so doing, validate those feelings and comfort the many children who think they are alone in their worries.  Joshua dwells just long enough on these sections to be a comfort to others -- and then, as his readers will want to do, he moves on to practical things. <br /> <br />He suggests things to pack that make visitation trips more fun, and lists information (phone numbers, addresses, full names, etc) that kids flying alone should know before they leave home.  He lists what will and will not help when a child is worried or scared about visitation, and he talks about ways to calm or to face those worries. <br /> <br />It's not all talk-talk-talk, though: Joshua includes numerous suggestions for activities to do while traveling or to distract yourself when worried, and lots of fill-in pages to consider your own feelings. <br /> <br />One of my favorite things about this slim volume is its versatility: kids can take it with them anywhere as a combination guidebook/workbook/activity book.  Pages are left blank for name anagrams, maps, worry lists, pictures of \\"happy times,\\" etc.  My favorites are the Wish List (\\"If you know what you want, you will have a better chance of getting it\\") and Fill-In Feelings.   <br /> <br />Though they are usually trying to do what they think is best for their children, adults embroiled in custody battles sometimes forget that it is their CHILDREN'S LIVES that are being re-ordered by a court, without their permission and usually without their input.  This book would be helpful not only to help those children understand their feelings and cope with things they can't change, but to help parents -- and indeed anyone who works with children -- to understand what kids are going through. <br /> <br />The only caveat to my five-star recommendation is this: the book mentions God (and occasionally Jesus, in the statements of other children) several times.  I do not see this as a shortcoming; acknowledging and working with a Higher Power is very helpful and necessary for many -- perhaps most -- people. Adults purchasing the book should be aware of this bias, and help children to understand it in the context of their own spiritual beliefs.	2005-04-15
US	42496670	R3HK0Y94QB9PKS	0060520515	836724652	The Other Side of the Story: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Another great one	I don't know how, but Marian Keyes always manages to write something that is at at once funny, wise, insightful, and fun to read.  Her books look like that favorite sterotype of reviewers, \\"Chicklit,\\" but they're about much more (and they're much better!) than the skinny cartoon girls on their covers suggest.  Keyes's characters are real, her stories inventive, and even when the ending wraps up in far *too* happy a manner, it doesn't make the book any less of a good experience.   <br /> <br />THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STORY has all the winning ingredients, and I'm happy to say it mixes them up well and combines them into yet another great read.  The inside look at publishing is hilarious, and very enlightening for anyone who has ever wondered what it would take to get their work in the local bookstore!  The Lily-Gemma-Anton triangle is well done and the resolution -- though it seems lacking at first -- is very realistic.  Jojo is a superbly written character, and her relationship with her married boss (and his relationship to his wife) is explored with great sensitivity to all the complex issues it creates.   <br /> <br />Since the first 100+ pages were about Gemma, and the next Jojo, and the next Lily, I didn't understand at first how they would all fit together in one story; the relationships between them didn't seem strong enough for that sort of split style.  I should have known, though: Marian Keyes pulls it off every time.  Read it and see for yourself.	2004-10-08
US	42496670	R1O6F25N739588	0060090383	519845136	Rachel's Holiday	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent, but not just "fun"	Serious and funny in equal measure, this book is a perfect read for every woman.  Rachel, as some other reviewers have complained, is indeed a very shallow person whose life is way off track, but this (in case the aforementioned reviewers have somehow missed it) is the story of her RECOVERY.  And what a story!   <br /> <br />Rachel, for those of you who haven't read the plot summaries, is a drug addict living crazy in the big city, and she's finally been convinced to go to rehab...but she's not convinced she's got a problem.  Instead, she sees rehab as a way to meet celebrities and figure out a way to get back her boyfriend, who dumped her when he couldn't handle her drug problem anymore.  She scoffs at the weaknesses of the other addicts, refusing to admit her own, and bitches constantly about her terrifying therapist, awful roommate, and total lack of celebrity sightings.   <br /> <br />While we're laughing (or shaking our heads) at how snippy and silly and immature Rachel can be, somehow Ms. Keyes gets us inside her head and we begin to understand her, just as Rachel begins to understand herself.  Then the healing begins, and boy is the journey painful.  With great sensitivity and without overanalyzing, Ms. Keyes gives us an unflinching look at addiction, adulthood, love, sex, confronting the self, and healing it.  A gifted writer by whom I have not read a bad book, Marian Keyes has outdone herself with RACHEL'S HOLIDAY. <br /> <br />One complaint (not M.K.'s fault): the cover.  Where do they keep coming up with these stupid covers full of people way too skinny to be serious, let alone real?  For all its humor, this is ultimately a serious story of personal redemption, and for that the cover is completely wrong.	2004-10-08
US	42496670	RCB9Y76WFNFPF	0765306743	663206884	Foxmask: Children of the Light Isles, Book Two	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Lacking where WOLFSKIN was great, but still very good	If you liked WOLFSKIN, make sure you pick up FOXMASK.  You'll find out what happens to Eyvind, Nessa, and Somerled, and you'll get an entirely new story concerning thier children -- a story that is almost, though not quite, as cunninly woven as the first one.  Like WOLFSKIN, FOXMASK is full of surprising twists, tearing emotions, and interesting characters, but it lacks two elements that made WOLFSKIN such a superlative read.   <br /> <br />First of all, the dialogue and pacing of events is abrupt and almost stilted for the few several chapters.  The reader gets a sense that the author turned in a good first draft for publication...until suddenly you're wound into the story and the writing is as smooth and accomplished as ever.  Perhaps Ms. Marillier took a little while to get back into it herself.   <br /> <br />Second, while I was neatly swept away by the story and nearly cried twice, the raw emotional power I consider to be one of Ms. Marillier's trademarks (displayed so well in her four previous books as to have me weeping on finishing certain chapters and left with emotional echoes all day) is completely missing from FOXMASK.   <br /> <br />While neither of these faults makes FOXMASK anything other than a very good read, they do unfortunately assure that it is not quite in the same incredible class as the rest of Ms. Mariller's work.	2004-09-30
US	42496670	R3HDA398IE2YYJ	0670032670	760845381	The Forest Lover	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Different from "Artemisia"; just as powerful	As well-written and revealing as THE PASSION OF ARTEMISIA, the style of THE FOREST LOVER couldn't be more different from its best-selling predecessor.  It's bolder, harder, it moves more abruptly, like the style of art and the artist it follows.  Until I read this book, I'd never heard of Emily Carr, but I'd been to the forests of British Columbia and I live among the wild greenery of northern Oregon, so I read it for the forest in its title.  Along the way, I did a bit of minor research into the fascinating explorer Vreeland depicts so well, and I discovered that her art is, as she struggles to comphrehend in the book, about soul -- yours and your subject's, mixed together on the canvas.   <br /> <br />I haven't done enough research to know how many historical liberties Vreeland has taken in her story, but I really don't care.  Read this book if you love art, soul, the northern forests, wilderness, people with gumption.  Especially if it's all-of-the-above.  I'm not a big art enthusiast, so I imagine someone who is will get even more pleasure from the experience.	2004-09-28
US	42496670	R3A0BKE3S2ZR1T	1569753369	752734178	Seasons of the Witch: Celebrating the 8 Wiccan Festivals of the Year	Books	3	5	6	N	N	good if you're new to Wicca	If you're looking to purchase one of your first books on Wicca, this is a good choice.  It covers our eight major holidays, including why we celebrate them, where they get their various names, and nice tips on decorating and celebrating.  A full ritual is included for each, which you are encouraged to adapt (or scrap entirely) according to your own needs.  A worthwhile buy. <br /> <br />If your shelf is already crammed with books on the subject, and in general if you're not new to Wicca, this book is likely to be a repeat.  I found it well done, but definitely best suited to witches who are just starting out. My favorite part was Ms. Duff's poetry, much of which is lovely and evocative, through she says the poems are songs and then doesn't tell you what tunes they go with!  Anycase, they really add to her explanations and rituals.  Check it out of the library and have a look.   <br /> <br />Either way -- buy it or borrow it -- please discount at least half of the introduction.  Ray Buckland knows his stuff in many areas, but history and, occasionally, tact (regarding Christianity) don't seem to be his strong points in this short, tossed-off piece.	2004-08-15
US	42496670	R39HFFZBSUI11T	0060559128	904974670	Holy Fools: A Novel (Harris, Joanne)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Intriguing characters	Set in 1600s Brittany, HOLY FOOLS is principally the story of two engaging characters: a gypsy-born nun with pagan ideas, hiding behind her veil the secrets of her adventuresome past as a famous acrobat, and a consummate actor who wears many faces -- even to himself -- and to whom all of life is but a high-stakes game.  <br /> <br />The two of them, incredibly well-drawn, carry the story, narrating it alternately in shorter and shorter chapters, as the plot unfolds with increasing urgency, mirroring the events it details.  They tell a tale of secrets and revenge, of religious zeal and the ways it can be corrupted, of intrigues that grow into accusations, cruelty that cuts more subtly than any knife, kindnesses that carry a terrible price, and -- the thread that binds it all together -- of the caprice of love, which cannot always be defined -- or denied. <br /> <br />The book is poetic, and I feel inclined to review it as such, but here is the short version: HOLY FOOLS is very, very good.  I have yet to read Ms. Harris' famous CHOCOLAT or FIVE QUARTERS OF THE ORANGE, but it is evident from this novel that her writing talents extend far beyond food and love and forgiveness, and far into the darkness and mystery of what it means to be human.	2004-08-15
US	42496670	R3PSZ2O6EFPTH5	1855857847	877191811	The Container Kitchen Garden	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Not so great	While undoubtedly full of helpful information, this book's writing style is so inaccessible and so patently full of grammatical error that any such useful information is difficult to appreciate.  The full-color photographs are nice, but they tend to repeat throughout the book, and they just can't make up for the writing.	2004-06-08
US	42496670	R1XC1DMXXVJW8I	0671568493	316772525	A Garden's Grace: Down-To-Earth Lessons and Simple Rewards	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Seasonal celebration	This is a lovely, gentle book made up of tips, recollections, reflections, and (as the subtitle says) simple lessons about keeping a garden.  <br />The writing sytle is clean and simple; by which I mean the &quot;traditional&quot; interpretation of Spring-Summer-Autumn-Winter, since the author lives in the Hudson Valley in New York State. Be aware that if you don't live in an area where these &quot;traditional&quot; seasons hold true (for example, where it doesn't snow), some of the advice here may not be for you.  Even so, the book is as much about celebrating these seasons as it is about gardening (if the two can truly be separated), so it's a worthwhile read no matter where you live.	2004-06-08
US	42496670	R2NU2BV4HSRDCZ	1588160742	305118712	Country Living Gardener The Successful Herb Gardener: Growing and Using Herbs--Quickly and Easily	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nice overview	This is a nice compendium of information on the planting, propagation, harvesting, and use of a wide variety of herbs. Basic gardening is covered for situations including every style from formal gardens to containers on a balcony.  Ideas and/or &quot;recipes&quot; are provided for some herbal teas, foods, crafts, and beauty treatments.  Half the book is taken up by an &quot;encyclopedia&quot; of herbs, which, though hardly in depth, covers many species (not just the super familiar ones.)  The whole book is appealingly laid out and full of lovely photographs.  Quite enjoyable.	2004-06-06
US	42496670	R1FO05EUC8L9M3	1580174108	695028155	The Herbalist's Garden: A Guided Tour of 10 Exceptional Herb Gardens: The People Who Grow Them and the Plants That Inspire Them	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Truly Inspiring	I number THE HERBALIST'S GARDEN among the most inspiring books I've read.  This guided tour of several outstanding herb-based gardens (public, private, small, large, urban, rural, you name it) is filled with informative and charmingly written text along with gorgeous color photography, and augmented by little &quot;boxes&quot; that suggest ways to incorporate an idea into your own gardens, or provide neat recipes for teas and baked goods. (The peppermint brownies are especially fantastic -- and easy!)<br />As a novice herb gardener tending my first 4x10 bed in its first season, I was deeply impressed by the gardeners (and plants!) featured in this book. I got the book from the library, started reading, and immediately purchased my own copy from Amazon.  I need to have this one around!  It's a great book to come back to for tips when you're worried, glorious colors when it's  wintertime, and inspiration whenever you want it.  <br />Each section tells the story of a lovely garden and the people who have made it what it is, then profiles their three favorite herbs, suggesting culinary and medicinal uses and giving instructions for planting and care.  Gardeners and herbalists will not regreat the purchase of this beautiful book.	2004-05-31
US	42496670	R1WAIYEPWQ8EBB	0767909208	820638595	Eat More Dirt: Diverting and Instructive Tips for Growing and Tending an Organic Garden	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What an excellent book!	EAT MORE DIRT is fun!  More than just a gardening handbook, it's about how to get what you REALLY want out of your garden (all the time -- not just when you're resting on the lawn, avoiding the mower.)  It's about how to provide the very best for all involved by using what you have to your advantage, and refusing to poison your soil, your plants, and yourself. (You might be surprised at what constitutes poison.)  It's also an acerbic sort of love song for the land, one that will inspire you to &quot;sing&quot; organically to your own little corner of Mother Earth. (Whether or not you choose to literally sing to your plants is up to you -- and perhaps your neighbors!)<br />As a novice gardener, I was raised by parents whom I always felt used too many chemicals and WAY too much water!  Of course, their garden is beautiful, and in that I hope to emulate them, but I'll be using Ellen Sandbeck's organic advice, appreciating her alternately dry and silly wit along the way.  Check out this book: it's a joy to read and a BIG help in the garden.	2004-05-31
US	42496670	R3P1Z1R3CCTOZD	014019536X	990968702	Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers, and Other Pagans in America Today (Compass)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Really good	Yes, it's a classic, but it's the good kind.  The modern neo-pagan &quot;movement&quot; is covered in excellent depth, with mainly objective reporting (I say mainly because the author is pagan herself and therefore carries an automatic bias that paganism is good, though no otherparticular bias shows in her writing.)  She focuses quite a lot on Wicca (arguably the most publicized modern pagan religion) but other systems are covered as well.  Even though plenty of the info here is &quot;outdated,&quot; (originally published in the 70s) I loved it as a vibrant slice of modern pagan history, and a vindication of pagan practice for the lay reader and interested pagan alike.  Very enjoyable and very well done.	2004-05-23
US	42496670	R361EVTHP3Z41F	0865714088	875790095	Divorce Your Car! : Ending the Love Affair with the Automobile	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An excellent resource	I checked DIVORCE YOUR CAR out of our local library, because the title made me wonder how such a thing could be possible.  I read the whole thing, and I was astounded at how simple it really is to use your car less.  <br />The first two parts of the book cover the history of the car and the American &quot;marriage&quot; to it, as well as the reasons that same marriage has turned into a disaster.  The third part then offers practical solutions for non-car travel, going into great detail about walking, biking, mass-transit, ride-sharing, etc, and providing plenty of information on the benefits, drawbacks and availability of each, as well as how to get in contact with alternative travel associations in your area, or how to start your own.  <br />It's a slim volume, but the quality is evident.  This book really woke me up to something MAJOR I could do to improve my own quality of life and the planet's. My fiance and I currently own one car between us, and though we've been doing alright with it, we'd been planning to buy another!  After reading DIVORCE YOUR CAR, we're realizing we really don't need to have more than one, and we're now planning ways to use our bikes and mass transit more, and actively discouraging each other from taking trips we don't need to take by car. It's already making a big difference, and someday we hope to go entirely car-free, with this book (which I've since purchased from Amazon) and our creativity as guides.<br />Thank you, Katie Alvord, for such an excellent wake-up call!	2004-04-12
US	42496670	R2HIPF09QAPVRN	0451459652	960632728	The Last Light of the Sun (Kay, Guy Gavriel)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	4.5	I had to give it fewer than five stars because it's not QUITE the masterpiece THE FIONAVAR TAPESTRY, A SONG FOR ARBONNE, THE SARANTINE MOSAIC, and TIGANA were.  This is not to say it isn't an excellent book.  Comparing this book to Kay's others, it's good.  Comparing this book to most other people's fantasy/historical novels, it's the best.  The only author I've read who can match Kay in this department is Jaqueline Carey. (Check her out!)<br />Set in the same world as THE LIONS OF AL-RASSAN and THE SARANTINE MOSAIC, THE LAST LIGHT OF THE SUN is about the intertwined destinies and adventures of several Erlings (Vikings), Cyngael (Welsh), and Anglcyn (can you guess by now?)  The characters are, as usual, suitably subtle and complex, the plot is equally so, and the theme of sorrow in joy and joy in sorrow running through the book makes everything the more affecting.  <br />Historical and/or fantasy fans should enjoy this book (with its blend of both genres), and fans of Kay mostly will as well.  The only hitch this last group might encounter is that LAST LIGHT OF THE SUN is just slightly less enthralling than his other work.  Since Kay's other books are so incredible, a tiny dip in his story-telling powers might seriously disappoint some followers.  I noticed it, but I wasn't overly bothered.  THE LAST LIGHT OF THE SUN is still an awesome tale, beautifully told.	2004-03-24
US	42496670	R10ET5E9TUGGJN	0060086246	543757976	Last Chance Saloon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Reality check -- good job	This is my first exposure to Marian Keyes, and if I hadn't been determined to like this fun-looking book, I would never have made it past the first few shallow, unbelievable chapters, and I would have concluded that Keyes is a terrible writer.  As it happens, though, I did make it past those chapters, and I'm glad of it now.  After floundering in the shallows, the characters pick up real personalities, and you begin to understand why they do some of the truly bizarre things that they do.  You also begin to care about them -- and by then you can't stop reading.<br />The story of three smalltown childhood friends living in London seems simple enough, but there are clearly skeletons in everyone's closet.  These, of course, shape the characters' strange behaviors, and are progressively revealed -- all except for the big mystery surrounding Katherine, which doesn't come until the very, very end, by which time you are begging Ms. Keyes to please, PLEASE tell you because the book is about to end.  Of course, she delivers, and of course, it's good.  <br />Also of course, these three friends and everyone around them don't just get drunk, come into work hungover, and sleep with every man on the planet in search of Mr. Right -- meaning that this isn't your stereotypical British \\"chicklit.\\"  (Don't get me wrong -- I loved Bridget Jones.  I just didn't like all her copycats.)  While there is some of this going on, each friend is quite different, there are real plot lines here, and there is real emotion and tragedy, which serves as a catalyst for the friends to shake things up a bit.  The story is fun yet also real, and the ending (for all) is satisfying (yet also real).	2004-03-16
US	42496670	REYDL7BGEA83J	0345274563	99331345	Her Majesty's Wizard (A Wizard in Rhyme)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Well done... but don't let the dogma hit you in the head	As other reviewers have suggested, HER MAJESTY'S WIZARD is somewhat light, fun reading.  The whole idea sounds silly at first, but the plot turns out to be original and interesting, and it's surprising well-written, though none of the characters are quite deep enough to keep a place in your heart after you've put down the book.  <br />Beyond the book's light fantasy feel, however, lies what seems to me a modern retelling of a medieval morality play, complete with demons, witches, Hell, God, the Devil, and continual preaching.  Of course, there are new elements, like wizards (who are good) and warrior nuns, but in general the whole thing reads as if written in response to every Sunday-school child's prayers for REAL entertainment.  Catholic doctrine is literal in the parallel universe in which our hero finds himself, and it is this he must follow while battling the hordes of evil alongside knights, dragons, and a beautiful princess who is always right.  <br />For the aforementioned Sunday school child (or grown up), this book probably IS an answer to prayer: high fantasy meets the (more strict) teachings of Christianity.  For the rest of us, it's a little disturbing being preached at when we're trying to enjoy a good adventure tale.  The battle between good and evil is a nearly universal theme in more formulaic fantasy novels, and it's all very well, but this book defines good as literal medieval Christian doctrine and evil as everything else, and that -- to me -- is a bit unnecessary.  <br />In spite of that, three stars for an interesting idea and its fairly witty execution.	2004-03-02
US	42496670	R8GNMX0CX3GBB	0312872402	31293441	Kushiel's Avatar	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent!	After reading the first book in this series -- KUSHIEL'S DART, which was incredible -- I wondered if Ms. Carey could keep her stories interesting and her characters growing. My estimation of the trilogy fell a little with KUSHIEL'S CHOSEN -- less exciting than the first but still an involving story -- but KUSHIEL'S AVATAR more than proves that Jaqueline Carey is a master.  <br />Set a decade after the end of KUSHIEL'S CHOSEN, the book starts off strong with a mysterious letter from Phedre's down-but-never-out adversary, the beautiful and deadly  Melisande, quiet in exile these ten years.  The adventure begins immediately and doesn't end until the last page, with Phedre on a dangerous double quest: to locate a missing person whose very existence threatens Terre d'Ange, and to find a way to set her childhood best friend free of the geis that will otherwise bind him for eternity.  <br />AVATAR has all the adventure, eroticism, intrigues, and creative twists of DART, with none of CHOSEN's slowness.  Joscelin and Phedre have both matured immensely, and the relationship between them is well-drawn and plays almost painfully into the plot.  Melisande spends less time as a major player, but her shadow is everywhere, lending the story another layer of mystery.  There is also a delightful new character on the scene, whose inclusion adds new depth to Phedre and Joscelin, and who helps to bring the cycle to a satisfactory -- indeed excellent -- close.  The only drawback is that there are no more Phedre novels!	2004-02-28
US	42496670	R3MGR2FCP0TQ1X	0609808095	655288241	The Book of Eleanor: A Novel of Eleanor of Aquitaine	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Great character, choppy writing	Familiar with the historical figure of Eleanor of Aquitaine, I was excited to come across this novelization of her life. Unfortunately, this is not the tale I expected.  While I loved the character of Eleanor herself, somewhat flawed history and strange, jumpy writing made the story itself impossible to really enjoy.  Frustrated, I found myself skipping over parts just to see what happened to Eleanor, and I finally abondoned my quest when I realized I was not enjoying it. Even in that, I was not satisfied, as Eleanor's strong personality and tenuous situation stayed with me, unreconciled. Ms. Kaufman has created a memorable character, but she (Eleanor, that is) deserves a better story to live in.	2004-02-28
US	42496670	R2R4LL5992UEXO	0451203046	348815754	Light a Penny Candle	Books	3	23	23	N	N	A disappointing end (don't worry, I won't tell)	As a big fan of Maeve Binchy's cozy, inviting stories that never stint on human emotion and yet always manage to keep their &quot;homey&quot; quality, I found LIGHT A PENNY CANDLE to be another good example of her work.  It deals with choices, compromises, torn relationships, and family strife, but it's also a story about the incredible power of friendship.  Right up until the end, it was a good read.  The end itself, though, is disappointing.  I won't give anything away, but don't expect Binchy's signature &quot;I want more&quot; ending.  She usually leaves her characters without total closure, but THIS ending is something else.  I had to knock the book down a star for it.	2004-02-14
US	42496670	RJIPBNIRLQS7C	0553381148	463481552	The V Book: A Doctor's Guide to Complete Vulvovaginal Health	Books	5	54	54	N	N	What your doctor/school/mother didn't tell you about YOU	Ladies, this book is excellent reading for every one of us.  Written by a doctor who is not only a gynecologist but also that rare breed, the vulvovaginal specialist, it is -- as another reviewer suggested -- the owner's manual for everyone with a vulva, vestibule, and vagina.  If you're not sure exactly what I mean by those last three terms, you need to find out, and Dr. Elizabeth Stewart -- the author of this book -- is the one to tell you.  <br />Not only does Dr. Stewart cover what we've got, why we shouldn't be ashamed of it, and how it works, she gives in-depth, readable information on vulvovaginal infections, imbalances, and other problems, tells you how they can be treated, and enumerates interactions and complications for women with special needs (i.e. they're pregnant, HIV positive, etc.)  She separates myths from facts and has the data and experience to prove what she says.  She also goes over the ideal visit to your GYN, and lets you know what questions you should ask, what tests you should request when, and how to choose the best clinician to meet your needs.  <br />All in all, this book is not only excellent but ESSENTIAL to a woman's library.  It's light, clear reading, and it may be the most empowering book you read all year.	2004-01-27
US	42496670	R3EUE17N3CRQF1	0385498675	703852098	Hildegard of Bingen: The Woman of Her Age	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Good work, not "the best," though	This book is the well-written, scholarly (but not too heavy) tale of the life of one courageous and troubled twelfth century Benedictine nun whom most of us have heard of but really know little about.  She's the darling of a hundred modern \\"movements\\" -- everyone from feminists to religious musicians -- but she's much more -- and less -- than the typical speculations and carefully chosen facts present. <br />The truth is that Hildegard \\"von Bingen\\" was a woman of paradoxes: a hardline conservative Catholic who acknowledged the \\"weakness\\" of her sex yet fought for recognition in the Church; a deeply pious nun who appealed to the rule of St. Benedict and yet contradicted it when it suited her purposes; a woman dedicated to the religious life and eschewing the political, yet intricately involved in political correspondence and the shaping of policy.  <br />Hildegard is fascinating, and Fiona Maddock's retelling of what we really know (and don't know) of her life is quite good.  It goes into great detail, sometimes on tangents seemingly unrelated to Hildegard, and occasionally the writing wanders off so far that the reader becomes frustrated.  Nevertheless, the book is loosely chronological, so it's not too hard to get back on track, and the writing itself is accomplished.  Many of the tangents, however annoying, cast a welcome light on the customs and Church doctrine (different in many respects from today, or later ages) of Hildegard's day.  Altogether, this book is intriguing and a good read, but be prepared for a few slow-downs.	2004-01-07
US	42496670	R9E0AWU3494WC	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent...and disappointing	Charles Frazier's first novel is literally gorgeous.  His story of two separated and uncertain southern lovers and their survival and personal growth during the lean Civil War years is excellent, but what really makes this book so great is its imagery.  Frazier paints Ada and Inman's mountain territory with a loving and detailed hand, so well-drawn that ALL your senses are engaged throughout the novel.  <br />Yet this is no Conrad-style monotonously descriptive work.  Against the living tapestry of the mountains, the main story of Ada and Inman (the lovers) and the people they meet along their journeys is drawn with equal skill, and the book is truly a difficult one to put down.  It explores the range of human emotion, tying that in with the themes and seasons of the natural  world; both of those things are a constant presence in the story.  <br />The disappointment comes at the end, which I will not reveal.  Suffice it to say that it is probably part of what makes the book (and the movie) such powerful potential award-winners, but I did not care for it, and it decreased my enjoyment of a book otherwise well-worth savoring on long afternoons from your front porch.	2004-01-04
US	42496670	RPWPMGLCM70OI	0770517145	321323225	The Eagle and the Raven: A novel	Books	5	92	92	N	N	Print it again!	This is an amazing novel.  It is not, as the cover claims, so much about Boudicca -- though certainly plays her part in blazing fire and glory -- as it is another historical Bristish chieftan named Caradoc, who united many of the Celtic tribes of England against Rome and fought determinedly until his eventual defeat in A.D. 50. (For those of you who do not know the story -- it's not a common one -- I won't reveal the rest.) It is also about some of the (also historical) Romans who encountered the power of Britannia, though the ultimate sympathy (wrong word, but close) lies with the British tribes.  Ms. Gedge sticks to history as far as she can in her writing, and fleshes it out with incredible skill.  The book is 827 pages long and I devoured it.<br />One of the things that makes this book so good is its chosen subject -- obscure figures who have become the stuff of legend; a mysterious and ancient fight for freedom that yet finds a home in our modern souls.  Another is its realism -- brutal violence and desperate betrayal alongside deepest love<BR>and noble ideals held, compromised, lifted up.  This story does not shrink from death and wrenching sorrow, nor does it invent a hundred miraculous escapes, nor become so caught up in mysticism that it leaves no room for the ordinary man and woman. It is a tale of real people, intermingling and forging lives in less than ideal circumstances, yet time and again forced onto two opposing sides of an issue that has many more facets than two.  It is a terribly sad story, but also a triumphant one, and one to stir your blood as others cannot.  It deserves many more than five stars.  Print it again!	2003-12-04
US	42496670	R1PH15RZA84WXR	0446679518	993617397	When We're in Public, Pretend You Don't Know Me: Surviving Your Daughter's Adolescence So You Don't Look Like an Idiot and She Still Talks to You	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Hilarious and helpful	Okay, I'm not a parent, let alone parent of a teenager...but I will be someday, and I'm interested, so I'm thinking about it and reading up.  Here's what I'm thinking about this book:<br />I love it.  It's wryly funny -- even occasionally hysterical -- and much of it rings true from watching my relatives bring up teenagers, being one not too long ago myself (though I didn't have some of the more extreme issues I notice in others), watching my own mom cope with me, and seeing the daily struggles between my peers and their moms when we were teens.  There's a lot of &quot;common sense&quot; here, but don't let that statement fool you into thinking the book's useless; the best of us sometimes forget to exercise our &quot;common&quot; sense.  <br />I particularly appreciate the (&quot;common sense?&quot;) idea that moms should not fall into the trap of being &quot;clueless&quot; or the opposite trap of being your daughter's &quot;cool&quot; best friend.  The best way to be both parent and friend is to be what Mrs. Borowitz calls &quot;the uncool mom:&quot; setting good boundaries, remaining in control, being yourself, picking your battles, and butting out when your daughter needs to manage on her own (which is more often than you think.)  My own mother did a generally great job of this, and we are now what one might call &quot;best friends&quot; as adults -- still very much mother-daughter, but with mutual respect, friendship, and tolerance  built out of (usually, and usually this was Mom's doing) handling our conflicts in a healthy way when I was a minor.   This book is written by a mom who sounds a lot like mine...but even my mom could have learned something from her.	2003-12-03
US	42496670	R1QOJD18KHTOJT	0385498411	475246433	Woman: An Intimate Geography	Books	4	5	8	N	N	I am WOMAN...	I love this book.  From the history of hysterectomy to the evolution of the breasts, this book covers at least a thousand things you (especially if you're a woman, too) really ought to know about biological womanhood.  Even better than that, it's written by a (female) science writer who can really write, and while it does at times get difficult (well, it's a science book), having to reread a paragraph every once in a while won't kill you -- in fact, it'll help you understand yourself.  <br />Better still, this is an empowering book.  Natalie Angier is no 1960s feminist theorist; she's a thoroughly modern lady scientifically pointing out why the female body/mind is different, similar, complicated beyond our wildest dreams, ultimately beautiful and eminently worthy of praise.<br />Drawing on anthropology (my thing, so I loved that), biology, psychology, genetics, and a host of other fields, Ms. Angier introduces facts, fallacies, theories, hypotheses, and the data itself, and while she sometimes draws her own conclusions, a great deal is left for the reader to make up her (or his -- men can read this book too!) own mind.  She includes a healthy dose of speculation, but -- and this is crucial -- she recognizes in the text that she is speculating, she points out the actual data, and again she leaves us to agree with her, modify her ideas, or not.  <br />Bottom line: WOMAN is a treat and a half.	2003-11-11
US	42496670	R17RV5ZEQ37110	0451181948	261758758	Midnight Is a Lonely Place	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Chilling	I almost gave this one five stars because it was almost literally impossible to put down.  In the same way that the \\"ghosts\\" in the story draw certain of the characters in spite of their terror, I was drawn into the story, pulled to finish the book though I was horribly frightened as I read.  (To put this in context: I read the bulk of the story huddled on my bed, through the evening and into the wee hours of the morning, completely alone on an uncharacteristically quiet night, while waiting for my fiance to come back from a late party.)<br />I have read one other book by Ms. Erskine, and I remember it as frightening but very good.  This one was equally good and twenty times more terrifying.  <br />It's a love story, in a way, but while that part is vital to the plot, it's not at all the focus.  More directly, it's the story of a successful present-day writer renting an old cottage on the shores of the North Sea, who -- along with several acquaintances and the family that rents the cottage to her -- stumbles into a tightening net of two-thousand-year-old hatred, horrible buried truth, and driven revenge forcing its way to the surface. <br />It's a tale that literally sucks you in, holding you hostage to an intoxicating brew of emotion that is equal parts fear and driving curiosity.  The backstory, woven in and coming swiftly together with modern events, fills it in for you: a powerful Roman official, his beautiful faithless adored wife, the druid and prince with whom she falls in love, cruelty that swirls out of control and beyond the bounds of death... <br />The major problem with the story is the ending, which is abrupt and somewhat contrived.  Still, this is far more sophisticated than your standard ghost story, crossing and blurring the lines between psychological thriller and supernatural horror novel.  If you're into that sort of thing, read it for the best effect at night, alone, away from city sounds and human company -- but I'd recommend leaving the lightson.	2003-10-19
US	42496670	R2IQRVZD9S12YQ	0440502004	103749600	Kingdom of Shadows	Books	4	2	2	N	N	ancient AND modern story lines are great	Like other reviewers, I found myself regretful at leaving the 13th century part of this tale to return to the world of the modern woman here, Clare.  A few lines into Clare's story, though, I would forget my frustration and once again fall into the narrative.  Dark, frightening, and forcefully compelling, both interwoven stories are excellent.  The exploration of love, obsession, and &quot;supernatural&quot; connections is not unique to this author or this novel, but it is all done very well here.  <br />The book was hard to put down, though not as chilling or downright terrifying as another of Erskine's novels, MIDNIGHT IS A LONELY PLACE.  Perhaps the strongest element here is the characterization: all of the characters are worth caring about, one way or another; even the purely despicable ones are well-drawn and very much alive, and you wait with baited breath to know what happens to them.  <br />KINGDOM OF SHADOWS is -- if it is nothing else -- excellent escape reading.  Be warned, though, it may leave you with a nameless shadow on your mind...	2003-10-19
US	42496670	R2UP8AI2KMDHNM	0765306727	842022512	Wolfskin (The Light Isles)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Powerful	WOLFSKIN is the fourth offering from extraordinary historical novelist Juliet Marillier, and if she can continue in the tradition she has established thus far, I have hope for many more.  Ms. Marillier has a gift for spinning tales such as one might hear from a particularly skilled storyteller of old, sitting with friends and family around a fire on a long winter night hundreds of years ago.  We don't have many such professional bards today, but we have not lost our taste for good stories, nor our need of people to tell them.  In our modern world, the printed word has reached its highest known distribution, and our modern bards have turned to that medium to entertain and to teach us with their tales. Ms. Marillier's Sevenwaters Trilogy (which, if you have not yet, you must read) is a collection of such powerful stories, and her newest offering, WOLFSKIN, is nearly as good.  <br />The unlikely hero of the story is a Viking &quot;Berserker,&quot; one of the legendary Norse warriors who went shrieking into the forefront of battle, blindly and lethally courageous.  Its heroine is a young woman -- a daughter of the royal line and a priestess of the mysteries -- who belongs to an ancient people of the Orkney islands, a people so shadowed by history that we know little about them today.  Other characters include the brave and tragic king of the Orkneys, a Viking chieftain with a bold dream of settlement in a far off land, and the warrior's clever and dangerous friend, who has saved his life and sworn with him a bond of brotherhood in blood, and who does not hesitate to call in his debts.  How these characters come together is a long tale of friendship, sorrow, rage, grief, terror, magic, and deepest love.  It is an exploration of the value of life and the strength of a promise made.  <br />Compared to other works of historical fiction, WOLFSKIN ranks with the very best.  Compared to the Sevenwaters Trilogy, which is perhaps the most powerful and compelling fiction I have read, it is very slightly lacking.  Some elements of plot seem to pass too quickly, and the reader is left wondering why, if they were so important, they were over with so little ceremony.  Sometimes that effect seems to me intentional, meant to make us feel as the characters do, but at others it disrupts the flow of an otherwise excellent story.  <br />As for the characters, they lack nothing; they live in your mind even when the book is not in front of you, and as usual what makes Ms. Marillier's tale so powerful is the sheer emotional impact.  If you spend time with this book and you have feelings, you will cry.  You may laugh and sigh and otherwise feel what goes on, but Ms. Marillier specializes in sorrow, and this book cannot be experienced without tears -- of eyes or heart, or both. I would recommend plenty of time and perhaps some tissues to hand as you really get into the story.  If you are separated from a loved one, you might want to wait until he or she is back with you before you begin; this is a tale of many kinds of heartbreak.  It's easy to think I'm exaggerating here, but the power of human emotion is perhaps the greatest on earth: it makes us what we are, and shapes our world and our lives.  This story is about that, in a way, and our reactions to it, and to others, are about that power, too.	2003-10-11
US	42496670	R2W05Z6CIW2ZWN	1577661567	416638923	The Innocent Anthropologist : Notes from a Mud Hut	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Accesible anthropology	You've got to love this book.  I'm an anthro type anyway, but if I wasn't this book would still be highly entertaining and a great experience.<br />It's about a self-deprecating British anthropologist who goes to Cameroon to do fieldwork among a little-known tribe called the Dowayo.  While he's there, he encounters strange foods, a crazy old missionary, an impossible French-speaking Dowayo assistant, illness, personal injury, beer parties in the fields, paranoid Dowayo men, and a host of other things that will alternately make you wince and laugh out loud.  <br />For anthropologists, this is an amusing look at what it's REALLY like in the field, with none of the &quot;blood and guts&quot; left out.  For the lay reader, it's a look at what anthropologists actually do, and a highly educational one at that.  If you think anthropology is all about dead white men condescending to attend a &quot;native&quot; ceremony now and then, this book's a kick in the head.  I loved it.	2003-09-24
US	42496670	R2CCEVZ91C43OL	0967825709	832751343	Leaving Home: What You Gotta Do, When You Gotta Do It, and How Much It's All Gonna Cost You	Books	2	1	1	N	N	It's cartoons, jeeez.  I'm more intelligent than that.	What isn't noted about this book is that it's mostly in cartoon format.  And it isn't actually called LEAVING HOME, it's called DIC AND DONNA ARE LEAVING HOME. It's a long comic strip (that isn't really funny) about Donna, who prepares well for living on her own, and her friend Dic, who doesn't.  Donna's adventures are your advice.<br />This book would have been quite good if it left out all the cartoony nonsense.  It's not cute, and it doesn't help get the point across.  The actual information, though, is great.  It covers the various places you'll need to call and what questions to ask them, and gives details on setting up bank accounts, registering your car, understanding car insurance, etc.  It's extremely helpful information for high school or college grads ready to go it alone for the first time. Example: I'm a graduating college senior who's getting married and moving out of state, and I found all the car insurance info and the question lists very helpful.<br />However, the cartoon format is so dumb I couldn't keep the book.  I'd recommend you get it out of the library or borrow it from a friend, and write everything down or make photocopies of the handy little (non-cartoony) worksheets in the back.	2003-09-24
US	42496670	RY5FBGNNYXWS5	0060095776	93740102	The Intimacy Factor: The Ground Rules for Overcoming the Obstacles to Truth, Respect, and Lasting Love	Books	3	160	184	N	N	Good boundary work; quit it with the AA stuff!	Pia Mellody notes in the beginning of THE INTIMACY FACTOR that her deepest reason for writing the book was &quot;to acknowledge the role of spirituality in intimate relationships.&quot;  This is in itself is a worthy goal; spirituality (general, not within a specfic religious framework) as specifically applied to relationships is not addressed often enough, and it's a frequently forgotten part of too many partnerships.  Mellody writes that true sprituality is the realization that God is Love and we can trust in that Love.  That love is what restores to us the truth of our own inherent worth, thereby enabling us to have truly intimate relationships with other human beings.<br />Following an initial discussion along these lines, Mellody spends most of the rest of the book describing the concept of boundaries -- the &quot;psychological passages&quot; through which we both express our truth and recieve the emotions and words of others.  She explains how functional boundaries lead to a spiritual relationship with God and good relationships with people, and the various ways in which dysfunctional boundaries can impair relationships.  She also talks about how &quot;boundary work&quot; therapy helps to restore boundaries to healthy function.  <br />Mellody's descriptions of boundaries are both interesting and very useful -- you can really see where how your own boundaries are functioning (or not) and what you can do to improve them.  However, she ascribes all boundary dysfunction to myriad possible forms of abuse in childhood (often more subtle than your stereotypical drunken and physcially abusive parent.)  While this is interesting and helpful as well, I think it is a stretch to say that ALL relationship problems stem from childhood abuse.  Does everyone have abusive parents?  And what about adults who had abusive parents but have been able to transcend that upbringing without therapy and become functional people in healthy relationships?  Mellody makes it sound as if there are no exceptions: everyone with childhood trauma is messed up unless she gets therapy, and practically no one is without such past trauma (since many, many people have relationship problems.)  <br />Another thing that bothers me about the book is the constant referencing to AA.  I realize the author is a recovering alcoholic, and that alcoholism can deal serious blows to a relationship, but that's not what this book is about.  It should be confined to one of two examples, not splashed all over the text.  By the end of the book, I was getting really tired of the serenity prayer.  It may be good, but it's cliched in the first place, and refering to it several times in 200 pages is not helping matters at all.<br />Also, though the author gives many helpful examples of how to have healhty discussions about relationship issues, PLEASE don't use her wording!  It's stilted and totally unnatural; if you used it on your partner, he or she would wonder what was wrong with you. Use the ideas; forget the format!<br />I don't mean to imply that this book is completely faulty; it's actually very enjoyable and informative. The subtitle really ought to have something about boundaries in it though, because this is where the author really shines.	2003-09-17
US	42496670	R23KPN1VU70J0C	0060930772	488117024	Coloring Outside the Lines	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Think you've got an open mind?	Think you really know what's best for your kids? Read this book.  It certainly isn't the be-all and end-all of wisdom on how we should educate our children, but it's the best work on the subject I've seen yet.  To read it, though, you have to put aside everything you ever automatically &quot;knew&quot; about school (for example, that it's a good thing) and really THINK about it.  What is the purpose of teaching higher math to a child with no aptitude for it and no chance of using it in her career?  Why do teachers always insist that children sit quietly and never speak out of turn?  Why do parents assume that school will prepare their child for life in the real world?<br />Roger Schank doesn't accuse teachers of trying to squelch children's interests or administrators of being bad people, but he does point out that the way the school system teaches is completely outdated and unintentionally destroys children's eagerness and passion for learning.  To raise a truly intelligent child, Schank says, parents must take charge personally.  They must work to undue the damage school does to a child, and to instill positive character traits in a child that will help him develop true intelligence: verbal ability, analytical ability, gumption, inquisitiveness, creativity, and ambition.  There are simple (and not-so-simple) ways parents can do this, and Schank dedicates his book to telling us how we can help our children and also WHY we should take charge. He stresses that it isn't easy being a parent and it's even harder parenting a &quot;smarter kid&quot; -- but the goal is a child who knows who she is and finds herself as an adult in a happy and successful situation, doing something she loves and excells at.  Isn't that a worthy ambition? <br />Altogether, COLORING OUTSIDE THE LINES is an eye-opening look at education in our country and the future of our kids -- well worth the time to read and put into practice.	2003-07-26
US	42496670	R1UTT18YH974AB	051788206X	556248539	Almost Vegetarian: A Primer for Cooks Who Are Eating Vegetarian Most of the Time, Chicken & Fish Some of the Time, & Altogether Well All of the Time	Books	5	15	18	N	N	The first cookbook I've actually wanted to use	I never really bothered to learn how to cook. My extended family does it -- and does it well -- almost as second nature, but for some reason, the love (and the know-how) of preparing wonderful food never made its way down to me.  <br />Then I started broadening my tastes, and then I got engaged.  Suddenly, I wanted to learn how to cook. I made peace with the kitchen over the course of a summer, and then I decided we'd need to be friends.  I borrowed my mom's cookbooks and flipped enthusiastically through the pages, but everything was meat, and everything contained words like broil, blanch, and braise, and I didn't even know what those words meant, let alone how to do them.<br />I found Diana Shaw's ALMOST VEGETARIAN in a used book store for [just a little money].  I loved the format, the nutrition information, the glossary of terms, the how-to boxes (ex: how to clean a leek), the appendecies on how to select fruits and vegetables for best taste, etc.  I flipped through it, and right away I saw ten recipes I wanted to try.  With my fiance, I got to work immediately, and we have both loved the results so far.  Many of the recipes take a long time to make, and some call for specialized ingredients, but there are time saving do-ahead tips for each selection, and exact instructions on how (and how long) each can be preserved (before or after completion) and where to find some of the more obscure ingredients.  <br />If you're vegetarian, mostly vegetarian (like me), or you just want to cook more with fruits and veggies, try this book.  Some recipes may take longer than expected, especially the first time you make them, but the vast majority are worth the wait.  Kudos to Diana Shaw!	2003-06-18
US	42496670	R1VN1IH7IGJAFR	1565122593	184826480	Mother of the Bride: The Dream, the Reality, the Search for a Perfect Dress	Books	5	13	14	N	N	You'll laugh, you'll cry -- you know the drill =)	This is basically an autobiographical comic short story, with wacky illustrations to add to the fun.  I bought it as a Mother's Day present for my mom right after I got engaged, and we read it aloud together in our favorite spot on the front porch, passing the book when one of us was overcome with laughter -- or tears.  Ilene Beckerman can really write, and she does it with devastating humor and tear-jerking poignancy as she explores -- from the front row view of the mother of the bride -- the fun, the fights, the work, the tears, the trials, and often the complete insanity that all contribute to the creation of a beautiful wedding.  At the same time, she critically (and beautifully) examines the complex relationship between a mother and her daughter.  This short little gem will help you remember the things you appreciate most about your mother, your daughter...or both.	2003-06-18
US	42496670	RG276N2IQYGUJ	0446676098	430421115	The Notebook	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Poorly written sap	Sentiment is a good thing, and even when a story gets a little sappy, a good writer can make it into a thing of beauty.  THE NOTEBOOK, unfortunately, was not blessed with a particularly good writer.  The plot is very thin, the &quot;suspense&quot; is not suspenceful, and the writing itself...ouch.  Sparks has quite a following, but his work isn't even good enough to be considered escape reading; it's too full of distracting bad grammar, etc, etc.  If you must read it, get this one from the library.	2003-04-17
US	42496670	R2NHZ05UKN2FOS	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An 'A' for effort	This is an accomplished work.  The writing here is good, the research exhaustive, and the conclusions in favor of the existence of Jesus, the general reliability of the main gospels, etc, etc, etc. (With some serious logical flaws.) <br />HOWEVER, this book, just like any other source of any kind, can never prove -- as it claims to do -- that Jesus was the son of God incarnate, come to save humankind from our sins.  To believe a statement like that, you must rely on faith.  Earthly evidence will avail you nothing at all.<br />Personally -- and this is just something to think about -- I believe that the literal truth of Jesus, let alone his status as divine or not divine, is not at all, as Strobel says, &quot;the most important spiritual issue of all.&quot;  Isn't what's REALLY important about Jesus his attitude of forgiveness and tolerance and his message of love, and the often wonderful results that legacy has had in people's lives since his stories were first written down?  If the idea is to make people better, then a Jesus of pure myth is just as potent as a Jesus of pure historical truth...and everything in between fits just as well.  <br />I'm on a soapbox here, and I apologize, but to me, Lee Strobel's book, though admirable, is rather pointless.  If, however, you are a believing Christian, Strobel's work may give you a reason to be proud of your beautiful, enduring faith.  If, like me, you believe in the validity of the Christian faith without professing Christianity itself, you may find interesting historical scholarship and a new appreciation for Christianity.  You may also have fun picking out the logical fallacies.	2003-04-11
US	42496670	R2WEI6CWULGVRX	0765342987	615549012	Kushiel's Dart	Books	5	2	3	N	N	There had better be more from this author	The setting isn't anything new: it's almost, but not quite, medieval Europe, and that's been done, and done well (Think Guy Gavriel Kay.)  The plot isn't anything new, either: political intrigue, beautiful women, plots to topple thrones, a nation on the brink of war, unlikely heros and impossible quests.  <br />What IS new is the focus.  Phedre no Delaunay is a child abandoned by her parents, sold into identured servitude at the age of four to one of the houses of the Night Court, an influential network of high-priced and highly trained courtesans.  She is trained well, but she cannot fit in because she is marked with a scalet spot in her left eye -- the mark of the Devil, some say.  But her luck changes when a nobleman who deals in information recognizes the spot as a sign of the god Kushiel, and buys her marque, taking her into his household and teaching her to listen, observe, and connect.  Her special gift, she soons learns, is also her special curse, for Kushiel's dart marks her forever as one who will experience pain and pleasure together.  <br />From here, I cannot reveal the plot, but suffice it to say that Phedre is now a courtesan who listens, and who thinks, making her a dangerous political weapon.  Her adventures are always interesting, and once you get past the first third or so of the book, it's impossible to put down.  Reading toward the end is like running a race: you pull faster and faster, desperate to get there, but equally desperate that it not end.  Trust me, it's that good.  <br />Carey deftly mixes sex and politics in a way it's not quite been done before, especially with regards to Phedre's particular sexual preferences, and her writing is lovely.  She picks up Judeo-Christian mythology, but elaborates upon it for the divine underpinnings of the story, and what she comes up with is quite fantastic: among other things, a fallen angel from the line of \\"Yeshua ben Yosef\\" who wandered the countryside bidding his followers to \\"love as thou wilt.\\"<br />Buy this one in hardback; you're going to read it more than once.  It leaves you with a flavor at once harsh and lush, of ripe fruit, steel, and salt...or tears.	2003-04-11
US	42496670	R35U7S4Z48LK1I	0553567675	402912729	Glory Season	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Thoughtful SciFi plus high adventure	One reader commented that this book is &quot;not up to Brin's standards.&quot;  Never having read Brin before, I can't say if that's true, but I can say that if this book is below average for him, his others must be truly amazing. <br />GLORY SEASON is both a tale of high adventure and a thoughtful, mature exploration of where technology and idealism can take us.  I'm highly critical of writing style -- especially in SF/Fantasy novels, which can be quite poor -- but the writing here is so smoothly and effortlessly crafted that I never had to think about it. Through 764 pages, it kept me glued to my seat and begging for more, trying to unravel the mysteries before Maia (the smart, stubborn heroine of the tale) could get captured or knocked out or thrown overboard again, and wake up to another piece of the puzzle.<br />This is good stuff: immediate escape reading that leaves you with something to think about.  It's not a combination I come across often, or at least not put together so well with seamless writing, fascinating plot, and a strong human interest.  Read some good SciFi for a change.	2003-03-16
US	42496670	R1YP52QNUGBHPF	0155030841	76500753	Purisimeno Chumash Prehistory: Maritime Adaptations Along the Southern California Coast (Case Studies in Archaeology)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Interesting to the student or professional...	...but then, this book was probably not written for the layman.  If you have an interest and at least something of a background in archaeology, you'll understand the book and probably find it somewhat interesting, but you may still want to skip over parts of it.  <br />Basically, PURISIMENO CHUMASH PREHISTORY is an account of Michael Glassow's excavations in a particular region of the central coast, and the conclusions he makes based on that work.  These conclusions are very interesting, as is his background history of the Chumash from various areas and the Vandenberg region itself.  The archaeological framework that he presents is interesting as well, but it seems the bulk of the book (which isn't much, since it's pretty small) is taken up with detailed descriptions of how particular sites were excavated, where they were, what problems were encountered, and exactly what was found.  Here the writing really bogs down; I had to skip a lot of this middle section.  <br />If you're an archaeologist or aspiring one or an amateur or whatever, the book is of value, especially for students looking to understand how archaeology is done and what types of problems must be solved along the way.  If you don't fit the above categories, don't bother.	2003-03-13
US	42496670	R2OG3SWEHNP8G7	0451458508	893895971	The Pillars of the World (Tir Alainn Trilogy)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fun, but nothing special	Compared to some of the fantasy I've been reading lately, THE PILLARS OF THE WORLD, while a fun distraction from your everyday life, reads like a very green writer's first attempt. <br />The basic plot is a redux of the burning times: witches and suspected witches quickly disappearing as power-hungry male inquisitors systematically find and destroy them for gold and revenge.  Of course, it's set in a different world, and it turns out that the disappearance of the witches is connected with the disappearance of a hidden world (shades of Avalon?) inhabited by semi-divine beings called the Fae, all of whom bear striking resemblances to old Greek and Celtic dieties.  This is all fine, and in fact it's all interesting, but the fact remains that it's been done before, and done better.<br />THE PILLARS OF THE WORLD doesn't grab you and hold on tight, doesn't pack any sort of emotional punch, doesn't push you to the edge of your seat even once.  Its characters are mildly interesting -- particularly Morag, who is the mistress of Death and one of the Fae -- but its story is predictable and ultimately it's not what I expected from the celebrated Anne Bishop. It's worth a read, but for a really powerful (historical) fantasy experience, I'd recommend Juliet Marillier's Sevenwaters Trilogy, and anything by Guy Gavriel Kay.  Kate Forsyth's Witches of Eileanan series is also fun, not so predictable, and very well written.	2003-02-10
US	42496670	RRYFYD55E6Q0V	0312870361	383094353	Child of the Prophecy (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The best	CHILD OF THE PROPHECY is the incredible final chapter in the brilliant Sevenwaters Trilogy.  I'd never heard of this Juliet Marillier, and chances are you hadn't either, but it won't be long before everyone with an interest in fantasy, historical fantasy, or celtic-themed fiction (or just good fiction in general) knows her name and her amazing talent.  <br />This last installment tells the story of Fainne, daughter of the outcast sorcerer Ciaran, and kin to the folk of Sevenwaters, who were the focus of the first two books.  Fianne is also the granddaughter of the Lady Oonagh, the sorceress who tried to destroy Sevenwaters and was thwarted only by the courage of Fianne's other grandmother, Sorcha.  Raised by her father and briefly but painfully schooled by her grandmother, Fainne has a momentous choice to make that is more difficult than it sounds, and will decide the destiny Sevenwaters, Ireland, and ultimately our earth herself.<br />I had a very difficult time putting this book down to get on with my daily life, so that's a hazard to reading it.  Another is that this one, as much as the other two, packs an emotional punch that can be incredibly painful.  Sure, the ending is happy (well, what did you expect?), but there are (at least) two sides to everything, and Fainne's tale is fraught with heartache and sorrow and terrible pain.  It's a tale to match the old celtic legends, and reading it is so much more than just an afternoon diversion.	2003-01-22
US	42496670	RMA5KUHYWJKPO	0765343266	634479806	Son of the Shadows (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great addition to the series	SON OF THE SHADOWS is just as good as DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST, and don't let anyone tell you different.  Readers have said the heroine feels less alive and human than Sorcha (from the first book), but I think it's obvious she's just as much of both, though her personality is very different.  Since she is Sorcha's daughter -- and, of her children, the most like Sorcha -- this contrast creates a lot of interest.  I wouldn't want Juliet Marillier to have identical heroines; where's the human reality component in that?  <br />Readers have also said that the book was not as gripping, but that's not true either. Rather, in DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST, the emotional power of the story centered on loss, helplessness, and fear, giving the book the power to inspire instant (sometimes constant) tears.  SON OF THE SHADOWS is just as emotionally powerful, but it focuses on themes of love and loyalty.  You won't cry as much with this one, but it certainly doesn't fall short of the first book's excellence.	2003-01-11
US	42496670	R1B4G5DD91DG9G	0765343436	559330677	Daughter of the Forest (The Sevenwaters Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	My favorite book this year	And that's no small achievement.  It's hard to believe this is Juliet Marillier's first book, so well is it written, and so powerfully affecting.  <br />DAUGHTER OF THE FOREST is a skillful, beautiful, heartbreaking retelling of the Celtic myth of the sons transformed into swans by their evil stepmother...and yet it is so much more.  Narrated by Sorcha, the young sister of the six transformed brothers, this is as much a story of deadly ambition, battling peoples, and ruthless politics as it is an enchanted hero-tale in the Celtic tradtion, touched with supernatural wonder. It is equally as much a love song for the sacredness of the earth and a witness to the power and strength of family bonds and love without condition.  I cried again and again, I held my breath, and sometimes I smiled.  This one isn't just another knock-off of the \\"Celtic Craze.\\"  This story is magic.	2002-12-27
US	42496670	RT5J6UH58IMMV	0060280662	875968884	10 Stupid Things Couples Do to Mess Up Their Relationships	Books	3	135	151	N	N	Some great stuff in here	You know, I don't agree with about half the things Dr. Laura Schlessinger says on the radio or in any of her books. I think she's far too conservative in general, and downright repressive about religion and sexuality.  Yet I keep coming back for more.  <br />Why?  Because this lady has her head screwed on right.  She's figured out one way to help people lead more fulfulling and committed lives, and she's not afraid to advertise it, knowing full well that she's going to get slammed for it.  You've got to admire guts like that, and you really should take her ideas into consideration.  There's something to be said for \\"traditional morality\\" (which encompasses things that are not necessarily moral issues at all), and its ability to make the world run more smoothly and people turn out better.<br />Listen to Dr. Laura about the importance of true committment to your mate, about taking reponsibility for yourself, about raising your children with love and discipline.  Remember that her politics do not have to agree with yours and her religious views may conflict, but this does not diminish the importance of her message.  You can ignore all the moralizing fluff, but what Dr. Laura is really about is devotion to family, and responsibility in relationships of all kinds.  THAT is something everyone can use a lesson in.	2002-12-21
US	42496670	R2B8YZCOM4K66J	0312155859	309178067	Mary Queen of Scotland and The Isles: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	LONG.  And fantastic.	From her first days to her last, Mary Stewart, the unwanted Queen of Scotland, lives and breathes upon the pages of Margaret George -- all 900 of them.  She, as well as the rest of the cast (especially her brother, her lover Bothwell, and everybody's favorite preacher, John Knox) is very well-written, and her gripping and tragic story is told with enthusiasm and attention to historical detail.  Kudos to Margaret George -- this is her best book so far.	2002-12-21
US	42496670	R2QGOUWFIDXHOI	0553578529	391628853	Into the Wilderness	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Amazing	Donati picks up a generation after THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS (which is well-conceived and an excellent story, but poorly written and very boring as a result) leaves off, with the romance and adventures of the original Nathaniel Bonner's adult son (whose name, in this book, is Nathaniel, while his father appears to have been called Daniel in English.)  It is his story as well as that of a courageous English schoolteacher named Elizabeth, with whom he falls in love. <br />The story begins with Nathaniel's interest in Elizabeth, and events take off from there: encompassing Elizabeth's struggle to build and run a school in the tiny frontier town of Paradise, her evasion of an unwanted and persistant suitor, her love for Nathaniel and their quest to legalize it, and a desperate flight through the wilderness that easily matches the spirit of high adventure begun in THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS, and just as easily outdoes Cooper's writing by not just a mile, but several thousand.  <br />There are two more books in this series to date; the second is called DAWN ON A DISTANT SHORE and is also a great read, though slower to start.  The third, LAKE IN THE CLOUDS, I have not yet read, but I can't wait!	2002-12-21
US	42496670	R1SZZ1BC09I99H	0345382846	905379525	Here Be Dragons	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A forgotten realm brought to life	Penman's story is both complicated and clear, historically nearly flawless (she tells you where she's changed things)with the feel of a well-wrought fantasy.  I love the setting:  Medieval Wales. Not a usual one for historical fiction, and not a place or a people well-known in the popular imagination -- unless you've read this book. The machinations at both the English court and the Welsh, the concrete and dynamic characters (especially Llewellyn, Joanna, and their independent-minded daughter), the careful and searching exploration of the meaning of many types of love and loyalty, and the ever-shifting relations between the two kingdoms of England and Wales make for fascinating reading.  <br />All that said, I found something lacking in Penman's writing.  She is certainly a GOOD writer, but too often events flew too quickly or ended too abruptly.  It doesn't seem to bother the other reviewers, so perhaps it is only my own peculiarity, and it does little enough to make the story less enjoyable.  Well worth the read.	2002-12-21
US	42496670	R26W5ZGSHO8MOO	0609609602	181785330	Isolde, Queen of the Western Isle (Tristan and Isolde Novels, Book 1)	Books	4	21	25	N	N	A tale well told	ISOLDE: QUEEN OF THE WESTERN ISLE is the first installment in Rosalind Miles' new trilogy retelling the legend of Tristan and Isolde (or Iseult.)  It is a well-done story, though focusing almost entirely on Isolde's side of things, and I am anxious to read the next book. <br />Miles' writing is clear and often beautiful, and she does (or seems to be doing, so far,) justice to a lovely, tragic old legend.  Some of her supporting characters (the Christian priest, Dominian, and Tristan's rival Andred, for example) fall a little flat, with only one side of what must be quite complex natures shown to the reader.  Tristan and Isolde themselves are well-drawn, and the love between them shines incandescent from the pages.  The faithful maid Braingwain is also wonderful.  It seems Miles writes her protagonists thoroughly and well, and her villians with less enthusiasm.  Characters like Isolde's mother and King Mark are sketched somewhere in between: not done as well as the main pair but still clearly presented and easy for the reader to love or hate or pity as their changing natures dictate rash actions of varying intent.<br />The contrast between good and evil is also a bit too marked in the book, amplified by the two-dimensionality of the main antagonists.  Some chapters end with lines about demons of evil cackling ecstatically and setting to their devious work -- all meant to be dramatic, I suppose, but it comes off silly.  Still, a few moments of annoyance to do not a terrible story make.  ISOLDE is thoroughly engrossing and difficult to put down; I was kept quite busy cheering Isolde on, and disappointed when I turned the last page.	2002-12-20
US	42496670	R366AVECZPH989	0689844441	215132105	Elske	Books	5	12	12	N	N	perfect adventure story for everyone	Clean, effective writing and a great plot are trademarks of Cynthia Voigt's work, and the more she writes, the better she gets.  I read some of her earlier books beginning around the age of eleven -- Homecoming, Dicey's Song, Seventeen Against the Dealer, Jackaroo, The Callendar Papers -- and I've never forgotten them.  Voigt doesn't shy away from complex, adult issues; instead she makes them challenging and yet accessable for anyone.<br />I saw ELSKE on this site and couldn't resist buying it to see if Voigt was still as good as ever.  Turns out she's even better -- I've read all the books in the \\"Kingdom\\" series and this, though I love the others, is my favorite.  It's an adventure story about two young women making their own way in a world against them, and it's got everything: \\"primitive\\" tribal customs, plots against a royal family, narrow escapes, war, even love.  It's got morals, too, but Voigt skillfully avoids hitting you over the head with them.  All told, it's as great for adults as for kids.<br />NOTE: I would recommend that any \\"kid\\" reading it be old enough/mature enough to understand and handle things like rape and sexual innuendo, which are in no way graphic or overdone, but certainly are important elements in the story.	2002-12-11
US	42496670	R1SZDS6ZA71DVY	006250925X	333552374	The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets	Books	4	7	11	N	N	VERY Feminist, but don't let that turn you off	Walker's viewpoint here is unapologetically feminist, but whether or not you share her views, you will appreciate her research and interesting stories about ancient cultures, women's roles, and the origins of some common words and customs.  <br />The book is set up -- as the title implies -- in encyclopedic format to provide easy access to information on specific subjects of interest.  It's just as much fun to read straight through the book, though; I often find myself continuing on to the next entry and the next after I'm finished with the one I originally looked up.  The whole massive thing is filled with interesting trivia, and great for passing on to mothers, daughters, and good friends.	2002-11-25
US	42496670	R2WC2UA4J85G1M	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Anthro for everyone	Well, now that I've read this, I'm running right out and grabbing a copy of GUNS, GERMS, and STEEL.  From an anthropological perspective, this book is solid, well-researched and well thought-out, and from my particular anthropological perspective, it's brilliant.  From the layperson's point of view, it's brain candy and a pure joy to read. It's anthropology for everyone, even professionals in the field who hate books like that.<br />Diamond's theories are far-reaching, and many of his insights are at the same time pure genius and simple common sense.  Much of the book seems like \\"anthropological guesswork,\\" yet he backs up most of what he says.  EVERYTHING he says is worth thinking about, so it's well worth your while to buy this book.  Don't borrow it; you'll want to highlight.	2002-11-19
US	42496670	R2REMTL1HX4O9F	0452281423	146685771	The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Hmm...	I'm not a big reader in the genre, so I'm probably not an overly qualified reviewer, but I'm going to give you my opinion anyway, if I can only figure it out for myself. <br />THE CLAIMING OF SLEEPING BEAUTY is based on a very original idea, but it could have been better executed. I'm not sure what I would have preferred instead, but the relentless spanking gets a little old after, say, the first two chapters. The plot is not, as other reviewers have stated, completely non-existent, but it's paper-thin. There are signs that some development may occur in the two subsequent novels, but I haven't decided yet if they're worth my time to seek out and read. I hear Anne Rice often spends the first novels of her trilogy on background and doesn't get into the plot until the second book...but I can't say for sure, as I've never before read Anne Rice. <br />In any case, this one's an entertaining read, if absolutely nothing else, and even if S&M isn't your thing, it might even be a turn-on. Or not.	2002-11-15
US	42496670	R37QPEMXR2OA08	0451458281	230581414	The Forbidden Land: Book four of the Witches of Eileanan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	As good as the others in this excellent series	I was going to comment on the well done synthesis and development of culture and religion in this series, but I noticed that one Sistermoon has already mentioned it.  Like Sistermoon, I am an anthropologist and semi-pagan, and I agree completely with her praise of this book and the others in the Eileanan series.  I'm getting a bit tired of the accent (since the fairy races aren't originally from the Celtic lands of Earth, why would they have Scottish accents, too?), but it doesn't interfere with my enjoyment of a tale well told.	2002-11-01
US	42496670	RY72O9YQDP2RG	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	0	2	N	N	I'm just trying to be jealous with the 5 stars.  Great book.	I wish I could write a novel -- any novel, let alone a debut -- as good as THE LOVELY BONES.  Perhaps it's not totally original to tell a story from the view of a murder victim or to explore in print the possibilities of the afterlife, but Alice Sebold's story is at once charming and challenging, as well as beautifully written.  Watching -- through the eyes of the dead child-- a family and a community grow, change, and cope with the untimely death of one of their own, is a beautiful and painful journey.	2002-09-19
US	42496670	RRMQKCG3FSMU5	0060953713	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Workshop THIS	**First off, what did you like about Francine's novel?**<br />BLUE ANGEL is written with the kind of enviable skill and grace that makes really good writing seem effortless and frustrates the hell out of anyone who sits down at his computer and tries to do better.  The characters are so believable that you devour the novel, desperate to know what happens to each of them, and later you discover that you cannot quite separate the experiences of Swenson's creative writing class from that similar one you took during YOUR sophomore year in college... Anywhere you look in the world of academia, you're going to see something or experience something that is skillfully and sometimes hilariously satirized in this book.  The novel's resolution is not really a resolution at all, and the author's willingness to leave it that way gives her story remarkable power.  <br />**Okay, what could Francine do to improve her work?**<br />There's only one reason this novel gets four stars and not five, and that's Prose's painfully obvious political agenda.  I haven't read any of her other books (yet) but I'm told that others contain the same headline hostility toward the feminist movement that permeates BLUE ANGEL.  It must be allowed, however, that everyone who writes has agendas and prejudices, and writing about them does a sort of public service by getting them out in the open for discussion.  Beyond this, Prose isn't annoying about it (even if she is obvious) and she's written a satire here, people, so cut her a little bit of slack to make fun of whomever she wants.  Admit it, the whole thing is almost shockingly funny and (mostly) right on the mark.  <br />**Anyone else have anything to say?  Anyone?  I guess we're done for the day then.  Oh wait, Francine? Did you want to say something?**	2002-08-08
US	42496670	R3FSXAQAUY5B2H	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not the kind of 'funny' I was expecting	According to almost all of the other reviews, here and elsewhere, this entire book is screaming/rolling on the floor/laughing out loud funny.  I did NOT find this to be so, and it's not like I'm one of those people who never laughs out loud; I laugh all the time.  So, expecting to be disturbing friends and strangers by laughing in public places for no apparent reason, I was a little bit disappointed when ME TALK PRETTY ONE DAY turned out to be much more subtle and profound than uproariously funny.  <br />I'm still not over that disappointment, but I found myself through the book in two short afternoon sittings, thoroughly enjoying the ride and a little [angry] when it ended so abruptly.  Sedaris writes about anything and everything with consistent humor -- something few writers can really pull off -- that had me more or less constantly smiling.  (And then occasionally a real laugh -- the kind that ends with gasping and tears in your eyes -- would escape me, most memorably during the three page \\"Big Boy.\\")  He's a little bit cynical and a little bit insecure and at the same time totally unapologetic, and the mix works very well.  Disappointments aside, I'd buy another of his books any day.  <br />(Side note to those who are looking for constant, crazy laughter of the kind descibed above: read anything -- ANYTHING -- by Bill Bryson.)	2002-07-26
US	42496670	RMQY6F2X051EP	0802117007	821301490	The Siege: A Novel	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Painful to read	I can't give it five stars, because while I very much enjoyed the book while reading it, whenever I stopped, I didn't want to start again.  Probably that has something to do with the hopeless and depressing tone of most of the novel, and is therefore not a fair reason, but I like books that grab and won't let me go until I turn the last page.  This one grabbed me, but I kept wanting to put it down anyway.<br />About the depression: don't let it put you off too much.  THE SIEGE is extremely well written, and it's amazing power lies mainly in Dunmore's uncanny ability to detail the harsh effects of war (namely hunger and desperation) on ordinary people.  There are small overtures to hope, especially near the end, but for the most part, Dunmore has set out to overwhelm and horrify and possibly frighten us, and she has succeeded, painfully.  She even managed to make me feel guilty for having more than a piece of bread to eat every day, for never having known the desperation of boiling wallpaper paste and chewing on leather to extract what few nutrients it might yield.  This is stark, almost hurtful, and amazingly good writing.	2002-07-16
US	42496670	R2GZQOT03ZWZ4P	1565123352	87032486	Tamarind Woman	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Well, the best books need a plot...	The main problem with this novel is its complete lack of continuity.  There's no plot, so the story consists almost entirely of flashbacks of the childhood through adulthood experiences of the two narrators (Saroja and Kamini, who are mother and daughter.) <br />TAMARIND WOMAN is not meant, however, to be a thrilling tale, but rather an in-depth look at the tangled relationships of family life -- especially the inextricable bond between mother and daughter -- and in this it does succeed.  It is not deeply psychological or intellectual (perhaps thankfully), but it is warm and well written, and ultimately very worth reading, especially for Baudami's loving and skillful portrait of her Indian culture.	2002-07-13
US	42496670	RXS4U57FNVFAD	0761119396	690240158	Three Black Skirts: All You Need to Survive	Books	4	77	80	N	N	Smart, funny, usually practical	Let's face it, girls: no amount of book-reading is going to magically transform the person that you naturally are into a cool and collected bombshell who looks like a million dollars in classy heels at all times and says the right thing in every situation, whether she's volunteering at a soup kitchen, breaking up with her partner, or whipping up something truly magnificent for dessert. <br />That said, it's easy enough to make simple changes to help yourself become more organized, take control of your life, feel more beautiful, improve your skills, and find joy in the simple things.  <br />Anna Johnson's smart and sassy little pink guide is perfect for helping women everywhere do just that.  She covers finances, entertaining, spirituality, happiness, tools, wardrobe, friendships, dating, jobs, careers, homes, depression, body image, love, and the responsibility to give back to our world.  She's funny, her retro drawings are irresistably cute, and her savvy advice pulls no punches.  Read it, think about how it works with who YOU are, and see how much fun you can have.	2002-07-09
US	42496670	RDXH68MEO9M5K	0609609521	584898629	When the Elephants Dance: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Not what I thought...and fabulous!	I kept hearing that this book was a blend of magical realism and painful reality.  It is...I guess.  It's a story of the last days of WWII in the Philippine Islands, during the Japanese occupation. The present-time narrative alternates between the points of view of three young people, and now and then it shifts to a story of the past, told by one of the older people, that tends to contain elements of the magical or supernatural, and is intended to convey a lesson for the young people in the present.  This plot style has the potential to disintegrate into chaos, by Holthe skillfully keeps it moving with gorgeous prose and seemless blending of past and present tales.  Her portrait of a nation caught between the hammer and anvil of two powerful opposing armies, of a people struggling to salvage identity and honor from the blood and ashes of war, is beautifully written and heartbreaking.  This is REAL literature.	2002-07-09
US	42496670	R3K5P1RAUOX6J2	0140042520	961771211	The Dharma Bums	Books	2	7	18	N	N	I'm gonna get blasted for this, but...	... I just couldn't get into this book.  It's a beat classic, so I hear, and it's about traveling and living free and enjoying life on lots of levels.  From the descriptions and glowing reviews, I figured I should have loved it.  I even read it while I was traveling up the US/Canadian west coast, and I grew up familiar with many of the areas mentioned in the book.  In spite of all that, I didn't like it at all.  For one thing, it's full of these obscure Buddhist terms and concepts, and although religion is sort of a hobby of mine, I didn't know enough to make sense of all the boddishatva-dropping, and the writing wasn't good enough to make up for that.  I guess I just don't like it when the narrator introduces dialogue with &quot;sez I.&quot;	2002-07-08
US	42496670	R3F81K7516PX8B	0060675071	193000446	Living in Sin?: A Bishop Rethinks Human Sexuality	Books	5	49	64	N	N	Five stars for courage and compassion	Wow.  Let me say that again: wow.  I grew up Christian, and I know lots of people who fall under that designation.  Some of them are judgemental and intolerant, many of them are compassionate, loving people -- and almost all of them fall short of the kind of tolerance and love for humanity that the bishop John Shelby Spong obviously possesses.  I left the Christian church for many reasons, one of which was the outdated dogma attached to moral behavior.  Bishop Spong in LIVING IN SIN addresses issues of sexual morality (pre-marital sex, homosexuality, post-married sex) with a voice that is open, unafraid, and firmly based in Christian teachings.  His Biblical scholarship is very good, and his message opened my eyes and gave me hope for the future of Christianity, faith in general, and the place of organized faith systems in our society.	2002-07-08
US	42496670	R32TDVJ1ZELKP3	1559716711	457374072	Chased by the Light: A 90-Day Journey	Books	5	29	29	N	N	I normally hesitate to use this word, but...profound.	I'm a verbal type; I'd rather read a beautifully written description of a frozen lake than stare at a picture of it anytime.  Even knowing that, my mother gave me this book several years ago, and I fell in love.  I sat with it for hours, seeing, dreaming, and I still take it down often to do the same again. The photographer, Jim Brandenburg, set himself the challenge of taking only one photograph each day for three months, in the boreal forest where he makes his home.  The result is a portrait of life as many of us can never experience it: not just \\"calendar shots,\\" but pictures that show the cruelty of man, the certainty of death, the very simple beauty of a single bright leaf burning on the dark, still waters of an evening pond.  Some photos are amazing in themselves and some seem ordinary in the extreme, but it is important to take them as a whole, and see what you learn from the journey.	2002-07-08
US	42496670	R80Y9WSDITDL6	0062504975	649870143	The Moon Under Her Feet	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Interesting, yes.  But very odd.	First of all, let me admit up front that I haven't finished this book.  I couldn't.  Maybe I wasn't in the right mood at the time, but all the mysticism really got to me in the first six chapters and it totally turned me off.  I don't know if this is my personal bias or what: I'm somewhat pagan and I have a mystical side, but I'm also a hardcore skeptic and very picky about historical correctness.  <br />Beyond that complaint, THE MOON UNDER HER FEET seems to be well written.  Time moves very quickly, though, and it's hard to get a good sense of any of the characters, at least so far as I have read.  I hope at some point in the near future I will be feeling 'mystical' and able to finish the novel.  I'm curious.	2002-07-01
US	42496670	RVV07394YN1LX	1570627193	159972157	Confessions of a Pagan Nun	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Good, but it just didn't &quot;click&quot;	I would like to give this book 3 and half stars, actually.  Horsley's descriptive prose is rich and beatiful; she has a way of describing things succinctly in totally new ways.  Her plot is interesting, too: equal parts memoir, philosophical treatise, and even mystery.  But something about the book kept me from being pulled into the story, from really living it.  Maybe it's the constant back and forth from past to present, but I've run into that in plenty of books I really liked.  I can't pin it down, but in any case, the book is still worth reading.  Wait for the paperback though.  You can't tell from the book info, but it's this little tiny thing that feels absolutely wrong in hardback.	2002-07-01
US	42496670	R1D5R1CRSSPESZ	B000065V21	613460974	White Oleander : A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can I give this maybe 12 stars?	This is simply one of the best books I have read in a very long time.  I read it on one recommendation, and I was disappointed and at the same time uplifted when I finished.  The main character, Astrid, is the best modern protagonist on the literary scene, and Janet Fitch's writing is bitterly beautiful and cooly incisive.  Get the hardback.	2002-07-01
US	42496670	R14HDKG87IWNEN	0192810901	937576372	The Tain: From the Irish Epic "Tain Bo Cuailnge"	Books	4	9	9	N	N	This is GOOD!	Having heard it referenced so many times (and finally figuring out how to pronounce it!)I finally bought The Tain.  I'm glad it did; it is certainly of great historical value and (more importantly) an exciting tale.  It will give you a frame of reference for all those fragments of old stories you hear about Deirdre and Cuchulainn and dozen others; it brings them altogether in order and in relation to each other, and it's fun to read.  It rambles at times, it exaggerates unapologetically, and sometimes it's confusing, but that's all in the nature of Celtic storytelling.  Enjoy it!	2002-05-18
US	42496670	R1AF1NS19XTP0E	037541388X	405179317	Her	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Elise? Intelligent?	She's a paranoid idiot, really, and her much-vaunted \\"intelligence\\" doesn't do anything to save her from her vicious -- and self-created, for the most part -- cycle of jealously and self-loathing. She's not Bridget, okay? Not even CLOSE. Bridget was crazy. Bridget was original. Bridget was laugh-out-loud funny. Elise is none of these things, and Zigman's writing makes it all too clear that she is trying to make Elise ALL of these things...It's almost complete [junk].	2002-05-17
US	42496670	R214G3YU8YPGCD	0312290586	104398667	Narcissus Ascending: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	VERY good	The style is a little confusing at times -- I LIKE standard punctuation! -- but the characters are absolutely riveting.  Becky, the narrator and main character, is a struggling artist who spends most of the book deftly psychoanalyzing herself, her friends, and especially the mysterious siren Callie, the sweet/strange/needy/demanding/impossible woman who brought Becky and all her friends together because each one had been burned in some way by her.  Becky's narrative is frustrated and emotional and a wild joy to read, and the special rivalry between her and Callie and the way it affects their other friends makes for a unique and compelling portrait of friendship unlike anything I have ever read.	2002-05-17
US	42496670	R329V8OECG6ETO	0140513299	144559546	The Penguin Historical Atlas of Ancient Rome (Hist Atlas)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Not bad, as far as it goes...	...which is not all that far, really.  This is some pretty basic information on Rome, and boy do events go quickly!  If basics are what you're looking for, plus lots of great maps and some cool pictures (everything is full color), then this slim volume is perfect for you.  I bought this book as a supplement (recommended by the professor) to a course I was taking in Roman History, and I never read it -- at least not for the course.  It's fun to flip through, though, and honestly I would recommend it for younger readers.	2002-05-04
US	42496670	R141GHXPDSBAP9	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I'm not a Christian and...	...I think C.S. Lewis is brilliant. His defence of theism in general and Christianity in particular is impassioned, thorough, and philosophically sound. It takes some concentration, and it may just change your life. If you're already a Christian, your faith will be strengthened, uplifted, and challenged. If you're looking to become one, this book is a great place to start understanding how to live it, and if you aren't one and have no intention of being one, you can still find tons of wisdom and great philosophy in this book. I was, and I am, challenged by Lewis' words and the knowledge and feeling behind them. I do not agree with him on several major points, and my greatest criticism is that he is far too narrow minded at times. Objections aside, however, his work is astounding and deserves wide readership.	2002-04-30
US	42496670	R1JN54HZUVERZN	0066211611	632147021	Portrait in Sepia: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Beautiful &quot;sequel&quot;	Amazing, as are all her books.  Isabel Allende is truly among the most gifted of writers.  Her stories are nothing short of fascinating.<br />Before you read PORTRAIT IN SEPIA, read DAUGHTER OF FORTUNE, which features some of the same characters and takes place earlier in time (roughly the California gold rush, 1849.)  getting to know these characters is a wonderful experience, so start from the beginning.	2002-04-29
US	42496670	R37QHF9ELG7SYL	0879235144	275053600	The Decline and Fall of Practically Everybody	Books	4	30	33	N	N	Know your history	This book is a scream, but I caution you: know your history before you pick it up and take it all for fact.  The author makes free use of dubious sources for many of the people he writes about, but he does give a general historical overview of each person AND he is VERY funny.  This is a good book for reading aloud to a friend or family member. (Again, though, it helps if the person to whom you are reading is also fairly well versed in history.)	2002-04-23
US	42496670	RXSD4E3L8QXVL	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	20	24	N	N	A &quot;classic&quot; that really is	A thousand people have said this before me, but THINGS FALL APART is truly a wonderful piece of fiction.  From the first pages, you are immersed in a beautiful, strange (to me, anyway), fascinating culture that comes through in every description, in the words that come from the character's mouths, in the conflicts between individuals and the clash of cultures, and especially in Achebe's direct, articulate, sparesely beautiful style.  <br />As other reviewers have noted, it's usually not the best when you're being forced to read it for a class.  But look at it this way: most books aren't.  If you're in that situation, try to get past the coercion factor and the problem of grades, and read this book for yourself.  It's a &quot;classic&quot; -- that's why they're making you read it -- and no one hates &quot;classics&quot; more than I, but THINGS FALL APART is much, much more than a &quot;classic&quot; work of fiction. It is a tragedy, deeply felt, that draws an unerring portrait of human nature and especially human conflict. It is a good story, and one beautifully told.  It is an education you owe to yourself. And if that's still not enough: it's short.	2002-04-16
US	42496670	R2QWTLB975BDA8	0553211684	590612959	Tess of the d'Urbervilles (Bantam Classics)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Zzzzzzzzzz.....	TESS is one of the more boring works of literature.  Yes, Hardy was rather a revolutionary for the period as far as his choice of heroine and the subjects with which he dealt, but that doesn't necessarily add up to a good book.  The story itself isn't bad -- if you're willing to wade through all the unnecessary muck to piece it together. However, I have trouble stomaching the fact that Tess is lauded as a brave and virtuous heroine when she is actually completely spineless and at times rather annoying.  I won't spoil the story by giving examples, since you may very well be intending to read it anyway, or being forced to read it for a class.  If the latter is so...good luck.	2002-04-16
US	42496670	R1NC6QMOEQ8IK6	0300036272	370805337	The Christians as the Romans Saw Them	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Couldn't put it down	I see I'm hardly in the minority rating this book five stars; as much as I like to be different, there IS no other rating this one can deserve. Wilken makes his subject, which is rather esoteric, accessible and interesting -- I would call it absolutely fascinating -- to the lay reader. I read this book with virtually no prior knowledge of the very early history of the Christian Church, and it quickly became the catalyst for a million new paths of thought and things to research. <br />Wilken divides the book into sections, each headed with the name of a well-known and influential pagan critic of Christianity. There are four sections -- Pliny, Celsus, Porphyry, Julian (the Apostate)-- plus 2 chapters not focused on a particular critic. They are chronological, and each builds upon the revelations of those before it. This format makes the book wonderfully easy to follow. <br />My only criticism of Wilken is that he tends to repeat himself (it gets worse toward the end, when he is tying together the various critics interpretations), but I think he does it on purpose, to make sure the reader will understand the point. All in all, the reiteration does not detract from the pleasure of reading the book, and it DOES impress important points in your mind as you read. <br />THE CHRISTIANS AS THE ROMANS SAW THEM presents a fresh view of Christianity (one that began as very different from the Church of today) in a relatively short, clearly and even humorously written, well-researched volume that is surprisingly difficult to put down. Based solely on this book, I intend to read Wilken's other work soon.	2002-04-13
US	42496670	R2OJCF7QT9PX0F	0878423591	545616662	Edible & Medicinal Plants of West	Books	5	55	60	N	N	The best I've seen yet	Full color photographs of every plant in the book, along with very complete, if brief, descriptions of characteristics and properties.  The book itself is compact and easy to carry with you into the field, which is the ONLY place to truly study the subject matter.  Enjoy this gem!	2002-03-19
US	42496670	R2VFHUO9BZ45TV	0840730349	636156236	Satanism: The Seduction of America's Youth	Books	2	45	62	N	N	Good intentions and a whole lot of paranoid misinformation	I was raised Christian.  A good many of my friends and all of my family members practice that religion, and they are all good people I am proud to know.  <br />I think Bob Larson is a good man, too.  His intention in SATANISM is to protect American youth and American morals, but his view is far too narrow. It is obvious that Mr. Larson knows very little about the institutions and symbols he denounces as \\"Satanic.\\"  The peace sign?  Major stretch of the imagination. Dungeons and Dragons?  Give me a break!  Wicca?  Please!  (Mr. Larson very obviously has never met a true Wiccan, or he would never say that they anything but intelligent, peace-loving, NORMAL human beings who seek to know the Divine just as Christians do.)  <br />I do not recommend burning this book, ripping it up, or using it as toilet paper, as so many readers before me have suggested.  It is Mr. Larson's right, as it is mine, to espouse and to publish his own opinions.  However, I also do not recommend that you read this book if you are looking for serious information on Satanism.  There are other, less paranoid, better researched versions out there.  This book is more concerned with impressing a strict and intolerant morality on the American public than it is in truly informing us of anything solidly based on more than a few distraught callers on the author's radio show.  <br />So thank you, Mr. Larson, for caring about the state of morality in America.  But really, Bob, you need to educate yourself about the things you believe to be \\"evil\\" from more than just the conservative Christian perspective.  Well intentioned they may be, but books like this can do a great deal of damage to the very CHRISTIAN virtues (shared by many other religions, in case you forgot to check that out, too) of love and tolerance.  You should know that your book made me weep, and it was not for the degenerate state of American youth culture, but for the pettiness and fear your words can only perpetuate.	2002-03-19
US	42496670	RGTJ9R5E6UB6L	0472085689	7437965	Life, Death, and Entertainment in the Roman Empire	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Extremely entertaining and informative	First off, this book is a collection of seven very long essays by different experts.  The essays deal with the minutest details of Roman life, ranging from religious practice to construction to gladiatorial combat and criminal execution.  Not all essays are created equal, and there are two in here that I found rather dry, but perhaps that is because I couldn't care less about the specifics of amphitheater construction.  The others were phenomenal, and even the &quot;boring&quot; ones contain excellent and useful information.<br />I read L,D,&amp;E (as I have begun to call it) for an undergraduate class in Roman History and had to write a critical review-type paper about it.  I have to say I actually enjoyed the assignment.  The book was, overall, excellent.  It features real-life &quot;snapshots&quot; of different aspects of Roman life, and unlike many books about Ancient Rome, it doesn't focus solely on the upper classes.  It also doesn't spend any time discussing politics or history or &quot;great men&quot; of the times, so if you're looking for that, go elsewhere.  This book is NOT an introduction to imperial Rome -- you'll need to have one of those under your belt already -- but it IS the most wonderful, complete, and readable supplementary material available.  It really fills in the gaps and answers questions you didn't know you had, giving you a vastly more complete picture of Rome under the Emperors.	2002-03-18
US	42496670	R1DKYWUFRPT8B6	0395689902	722656942	The Disheveled Dictionary: A Curious Caper Through Our Sumptuous Lexicon	Books	3	47	51	N	N	Fun, but definitely will appeal to the few	I found this book incredibly entertaining, and I loved Ms. Gordon's hilarious illustrating sentences and mini-stories.  It is obvious that she has a true passion for words, in and of themselves.  If you share this passion, you will LOVE this book.  If you already have a good vocabulary and are interested in increasing it, you will REALLY LIKE this book.  If you are struggling with language AT ALL in ANY WAY, this book will confuse you and probably be a total waste of your money.  THE DISHEVLED DICTIONARY is a unique and wonderful rollercoaster ride for the senses, but it's a mental workout, too.  Make sure you're ready for both.	2002-03-18
US	42496670	R2BXLZWSAJ1ZGL	0385323638	337263488	Pink Slip	Books	5	3	6	N	N	weekend entertainment 101	I try SO hard to be stingy with my 5s. I always sit there and think about the relative strengths and weaknesses of the book based on everything from literary merit to emotional appeal to pure entertainment, and in the end I just give it a five if I loved it, and say screw the critical analysis. I'm all too familiar with the saying that there's a reason the word \\"analyze\\" begins with \\"anal.\\"<br />Anyway, that's exactly what I did with this book. I can't say it's the most edifying, most enlightning, best written, or even funniest book I've ever read. But I couldn't rate it anything lower because it was all of the four adjectives above, in different ways, and because it was the catalyst for something I haven't done in a long time: a whole weekend of reading a single (fiction) book. <br />I was visiting my parents this weekend and just happened to see it in the \\"new paperback\\" section at the local bookstore. On a whim, I bought it, though it's nothing like my usual reading material, and in two days, I devoured it. It's amazing. It never made me scream with laughter, like Bridget Jones' Diary did, but it kept me laughing quietly throughout pretty much the whole thing. It didn't make me cry, like The Thornbirds did (numerous times), but I did feel real sadness at the pitfalls of Lisa's (and Eben's) life. It DID totally involve me in the character's lives, to the point where my mother's polite inquiries (would you like some coffee, dear?) made me snap at her for interrupting. Then of course I felt guilty, but before I could analyze that I was back in Lisa's apartment, listening to one of her wild conversations with her hilarious gay cousin. <br />The bottom line here is that it's a slice of a poignant, strange, dirty, joyful, sarcastic reality that demands your entire attention -- not because it's one of those impossible Conrad-esque jungles of intellectual revelations (hardly!), but because it's just so damn interesting, not to mention a little bit naughty and a whole lotof fun. I couldn't put it down, and that is a rarity for me. I highly recommend PINK SLIP, and I can't wait to read Rita Ciresi's other work.	2002-03-18
US	42496670	R28K7K79XNN1BU	0138965986	114675884	A History of the Roman People	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Impressive	I'm an undergraduate student of history, anthropology, and classics, so this book is merely one of my assigned texts for an obligatory course.  I was a bit worried (and a bit more when I saw the price tag), but I found myself pleasantly surprised by this book.  <br />Before you buy it, realize that it is, first and foremost, a textbook, so it is written in a scholarly fashion and has plenty of (relatively common) references to periods of time (e.g. Bronze Age, Paleolithic), historical persons not covered in great detail within the text, etc.  Also realize that if you want a comprehensive, detailed, and -- best of all -- interesting overview of Rome from its earliest known inhabitants (circa 1200 B.C.E.) through Justinian (circa 600 C.E./A.D.), this is a great place to get it.  Highly recommended.	2002-01-30
US	42496670	R3FSEUK6BLCZ97	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	4	5	7	N	N	More like 4.6 stars	Goddammit, I LIKE this translation!  I wish people would stop putting it down.  Although it has none of the poetic beauty of the other main translation, that is the WHOLE POINT!  Read it in the French or have someone translate it for you (for the French- impaired, like me) and you will realize that part of the book's power is the stark, straight-to-the-point style of writing.  Camus is a genius, and this translation is truest to his original words.  Prepare to be shocked, entertained, amused...and ultimately to see yourself in this book.  (Or worse, NOT to see yourself...)  This is most definitely worth your money and your time.	2002-01-23
US	42496670	R226MK6SC5OX8T	0812555031	23519524	The Horse Goddess (Celtic World of Morgan Llywelyn)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very good	I am an avid fan of Morgan Llywelyn's books, and I've not yet read one that disappointed me.  Her stories are exciting and her characters live and breathe and truly draw you in.  THE HORSE GODDESS is no exception.  Still, there is something missing from this novel that makes me rate it a step below works like DRUIDS (the best!!) and BARD.  It may be the odd rhythm of speech she gives the Scythians, no matter what language they are supposed to be using. It may be the one sidedness of the story; Llywelyn usually weaves several plots and points of view into one grand tale, but in THE HORSE GODDESS, she sticks to a single narrator's vision of a single chain of events. It leaves the story a little bit flat in the literary sense, but no less exciting for all that.  Like her other books, I read THE HORSE GODDESS straight through in a day, carried away into an adventurous past by Llywelyn's incredible talent.	2002-01-20
US	42496670	R1LFRBMBTC981J	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Smart, surprising, and very funny	After I read this book, I wanted to be a child again.  But not just any child, a 'petite ya-ya!'  In spite of the completely dysfunctional, touching, and tragic lives many of the characters lead (the women concerned, by the way, are known collectively as the Ya-Yas and their children as the petites ya-yas), and in spite of the fact that the book deals mainly with family feuds, their lives are also filled with crazy love and maniacal laughter, silly secrets and wild adventures.  The writing mirrors this beautifully, tossing the story from mother to daughter to grandmother and weaving the intense emotional world of the Ya-Yas into something wild and colorful that pulls you inside and keeps you a willing captive. It's an astonishing piece of writing.  I have yet to read LITTLE ALTARS EVERYWHERE, but I am certain it will not disappoint.	2002-01-20
US	42496670	R7D1MJM56KH6J	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	1	29	45	N	N	Great expectations...betrayed	In certain circles, I have been silently (or not) awarded the status of spoiled literary ignoramus for expressing my opinion of this book.  That said, literature is one of my passions, and I'm willing to risk ridicule again to warn those of you who may appreciate the heads-up.<br />I first read BELOVED as part of a literature class, and I was at first excited because I had never read anything by Toni Morrison before and had heard her books widely praised.  Then I started reading it, and I thought it would never end.<br />I admit, it was the writing style that turned me off.  There are many who laud Ms. Morrison's &quot;ingenious&quot; and &quot;lyrical&quot; prose, but I tend to find stream-of-conciousness writing confusing, annoying, and in many cases, as in this one, unnecessary.  I find that it disrupts the story, and I like my stories to make sense.  The effort involved in piecing together Morrison's story from the fragmented, dislocated chapters in which it is written is monumental.  I usually don't stick around with books like that to find out if the end result was worth the effort, but with this one, I had no choice.  Expecting nothing more, still I was sorely disappointed when I found that it was not. The story line has the potential for great power, but somewhere along the line it was mishandled and mangled beyond recognition.	2002-01-20
US	42496670	R37PDXCRYUIRRP	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	1	1	N	N	beautiful story	I try to guard my 5 star ratings, so this one isn't quite up to that, but it's really higher than a 4.  It's a beautiful story that is also gorgeously written, and I loved every page.  It's also a neat perspective on several biblical characters whom the Bible merely mentions and then brushes past and forgets.  As a child, I always wanted to know more about these women.  Anita Diamant answered that prayer.  There is very little truly historical information on the women themselves, but their times have been studied extensively, and Diamant has done her research well to present a novel that practically breathes on its own.	2002-01-17
US	42496670	RBUZVV1NNP76W	0140280243	145747525	A Treasury of Royal Scandals: The Shocking True Stories History's Wickedest, Weirdest, Most Wanton Kings, Queens, Tsars, Popes, and Emperors	Books	5	75	79	N	N	Great fun!	The subject is a bit shallow, perhaps, but Farquahar's writing is hilarious and you must admit, it's fun. His stories are well researched and accurate portrayals of some shocking, dirty, horrendous, and often VERY funny escapades in the lives of prominent European rulers down through the centuries.  If you're not into European history, you'll read it quickly, enjoy the ride, and accidentally learn a lot along the way.  If you are, you'll love the refreshingly funny writing style and unique focus (they don't tell you THAT in textbooks!), and you'll appreciate the detailed geneologies in the front and chronologies in the back that are an inestimable help in keeping straight the tangled branches of Europe's royal family trees.	2002-01-16
US	42496670	R2BWFRDJKTEKH8	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great read and good information	Impossible as it is to find a book on a controversial subject that is both entertaining and objective, I think POPE JOAN comes very, very close.  It's written as a novel, so you get all the history plus a whole lot of educated guessing plus a whole lot more historial invention, without a biased narrator pushing annoying agendas in your face. The writing also happens to be excellent, and followed by a short section that examines the evidence for and against the existence of Pope Joan and allows the reader to decide.   I picked this book up quite by accident at a tiny used bookstore in Mendocino, CA (-- see how good it was?  I remembered all that!), and I have never been sorry.  I've read it twice, and it will be on my shelf forever!	2002-01-16
US	42496670	R10EKRNUUJFX1Y	0385482493	460076600	The Gifts of the Jews: How a Tribe of Desert Nomads Changed the Way Everyone Thinks and Feels (Hinges of History)	Books	3	3	10	N	N	Enjoyable	Cahill's trademark good scholarship and passion for his subject is more than evident in this second book, and the writing is good -- just not quite up to the caliber of How the Irish Saved Civilization.  Start with that one; if you love it like I did, this one is worth your time, too.	2001-12-06
US	42496670	R18YJIRW694G7P	0062516329	128410882	The Spiral Dance: A Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Goddess: 20th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	0	2	N	N	incredible!	Many people say Starhawk's writing is dense and inaccessible, but I couldn't disagree more. Her love and wisdom shines through beautifully on every page. A must for any woman, goddess worshipper or not.	2001-12-02
US	42496670	RPESRSNSBRGJW	0804108447	618824478	Druids	Books	5	1	2	N	N	From start to finish, amazing	Morgan Llywelyn never disappoints.  I picked this book up accidentally because I enjoy Celtic lore, and I couldn't put it down.  Excellent history, brought completely and convincingly to life.  If you ever wished you could have been there for the conquest of Gaul, forget about reading Ceaser's account -- this book is your ticket!  Word of warning though: don't start it if you have any pressing obligations in the very near future.  You'll want to read this one all the way through immediately.	2001-12-02
US	42496670	R3TX7YFXK6BKWZ	1567184960	473405628	Yule: A Celebration of Light and Warmth (Holiday Series)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	enjoyable	Not too in depth, but a good overview of historical and present world celebrations of the winter holdays.  Does NOT focus solely on Yule, although that is the main holiday covered.  I had fun circling things and writing comments with my red pen -- there are some astonishing assumptions and inaccuracies contained in the text.  Example: speaking of how Christmas came to be celebrated in December, the author states that early Christians figured they could bill it as &quot;The birth of the Son&quot; and Pagans would embrace it because &quot;son&quot; and &quot;sun&quot; (the original focal point of Yule celebrations) sounded the same.  The author is quite right that in English these two words sound alike, but early Christians most certainly did not speak English, since that language has only been around (in any form at all, let alone the present one) for a handful of centuries.  In spite of these slip-ups, however, the book is fun (crafts, traditions, stories, symbols, recipes, games,etc and I recommend it, especially as a starting point.  Just read critically!	2001-12-02
US	42496670	REG9WK5ONTTW5	0061059900	874356818	Sailing to Sarantium (Sarantine Mosaic, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I love everything this guy has ever written, so...	...this should come as no surprise, but this book is wonderful.  From the best fantasy writer I've run across, it's  impossible to put down.  I've read it at least three times so far.  Intelligent, complicated, suspenseful, fun, and written with incomparable artistry.  Read this book, and all his others, while you're at it!	2001-12-02
US	42496670	R3ILU6FHM1097L	0156006022	84374708	Sun Dancing: Life in a Medieval Irish Monastery and How Celtic Spirituality Influenced the World	Books	3	4	10	N	N	entertaining and illuminating	Fun for anyone with even slight interest in history, Christian religion, etc.  Part story, part historical text, very clever and interesting.  I got bored about halfway through, which is why I didn't give this book a better rating, but I did finish it later and I thoroughly enjoyed it.	2001-12-02
US	42496670	R2JNMX4TBMN55O	0812585151	641161771	Bard: The Odyssey of the Irish (Celtic World of Morgan Llywelyn)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	As good as the others she has written...	...which says a lot.  Llywelyn writes incredible novels, and this one is definitly up to par. My favorite is still Druids, but this one, a saga of the coming of the Milesians to Ireland, is a fascinating and fun read as well.  Well worth it.	2001-12-02
US	42496670	R2OZYJ64NOQS8T	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautiful and absorbing	I don't care what the critics are saying; don't listen.  I have not read Ms. Chevalier's first novel, so I don't know how &quot;Falling Angels&quot; compares, but standing on it's own, it is a gorgeous little book.  Writing with sparing artistry and eye for beauty, Ms. Chevalier draws her characters with such simple perfection that you never notice the characterization process until you realize suddenly that you know the cast better than you know your family.  You never want the end to come, but when it does, it strikes exactly the right chord, poised between nostalgia and indifference, between the desire to preserve the past and the certain knowledge that the future spins on, regardless. A fast read, but this book is well worth your money.	2001-11-14
US	42496670	RE8DZCK2BA5VI	0440508274	935951191	How to Think Like Leonardo da Vinci: Seven Steps to Genius Every Day	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the coolest books ever written. Will change your life	Use this book as a guide to realizing your full potential as a creative, connected, talented human being.  The activities are fun, the text is enlightening.  You'll use the things you learn in here everyday of your life, and best of all, you'll find even more joy in the journey!	2001-10-28
US	42496670	R3GX2FPKYE18H5	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	History at its best	As a student of history (both at university and on my own), I often find historical books dry and inaccessible.  &quot;How the Irish Saved Civilization&quot; is neither.  Cahill's prose is lyrical, his research is thorough, and his conclusions illuminate a long-neglected piece of history that defintely deserves the spotlight.	2001-10-28
US	42496670	R216SOV4VTCGRB	0671027409	959600565	The Stargazer	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Well, I'm not gonna read it again...	...But it has its good points, too.  The plot is very interesting, the characters equally engaging, and the history well researched.  The writing, however, leaves something to be desired.  I can't quite put my finger on the problem, but there were numerous times when the story felt extremely unreal because of the way it was written.  That said, I had no trouble finishing it, which I usually do when books suck.  The end is predictable, but the plot never loses interest.	2001-10-28
US	42496670	R2CSHQPQS2GNPC	1567184677	245726972	The Goddess Path: Myths, Invocations, and Rituals	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Wonderful!	I have to say it was the picture on the cover that drew me in first (it's a pomegranite, in case you were wondering.  If you don't know why, buy the book and you'll find out!)  Shallower considerations aside, the text was wonderful.  Ms. Monaghan is a gifted writer who has beautifully illuminated the legends and associations of 20 goddesses from ancient myth.  She assigns each one a representative trait and after telling the goddess' story/stories and suggesting ways to honor or call on each, she presents a series of related questions to consider in your own life.  I found the questions to be wonderful introspective tools and am using the book as a sort of devotional journey.  I suggest keeping a journal to record your throughts and musings, or incorporating them into your regular journal if you have one.	2001-10-28
US	42496670	R368S6BOP16C5T	0062513605	48212733	Your Sixth Sense: Unlocking the Power Of Your Intuition	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Wow!	Ms. Naparstek's new book is amazing.  She shows us a whole new way to view the solid, material world that is incredibly liberating and intellectually interesting as well.  (And she doesn't sound like she's writing a technical manual either, even when she's getting reeeeally technical, which isn't often anyway.)  Her theories on intuition and &quot;psychic&quot; phenomena are incredibly  un-&quot;new-agey&quot; and backed up with her own experience and a full set of credentials. Best of all, once she's finishing explaining it, she shows you how to enhance your own psychic awareness in simple ways you probably never thought about.  No matter how skeptical you are (I am!), this book is definitely worth your time.	2001-10-28
US	42496670	R2F17894YFG7E7	0130307319	820686828	In the Beginning: An Introduction to Archaeology	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Haven't read every single word but...	...It's pretty good so far. (I skip around.) Definitely basic, but a great introduction to archaeological method and history. Lots of good pictures (black and white but still good), some good charts and graphs, nice basic overview of known human cultural history, informative asides on major discoveries, new edition includes very recent discoveries and information. The writing style is clear and not overly simplistic. And the cover is beyond cool for a textbook.	2001-09-05
