US	42513672	R2JF4NTCABG0KI	0973157003	21831642	The Face of the Tiger	Books	5	27	31	N	N	The Bard of New Hampshire on 9-11	When you first read a Mark Steyn column it only takes a few sentences to realize that he is a gifted writer of extraordinary intelligence. He is also conservative and libertarian and therefore mostly ignored by the mainstream media. To paraphrase the original Bard: <br />Mark Steyn's a bawcock, and a heart of gold, <BR>A lad of life, an imp of fame; <BR>Of parents good, of fist most valiant. <BR>I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string <BR>I love the lovely bully. <br />And you will too.<BR>Mark Steyn sells this book on his website personally autographned for the same price it's available for here. (Sorry Amazon.)	2003-07-27
US	42513672	REBILOPDICR4Q	0306807173	272864027	The Patton Papers: 1940-1945	Books	5	55	58	N	N	Exciting Fast Paced Biography That Reads Like A Novel	Martin Blumenson's has created a fascinating and surprisingly readable biography of the World War II hero, General George Patton. Blumenson has taken the General's diaries, personal and official letters and combined them with letters written to him and newspaper articles written about him. These are arranged in chronological order. <br />The period covered by this book was the most active of Patton's lifetime. In the last three years of his life, Patton had adventures enough for several lifetimes. After playing a major part in the conquest of North Africa, then Sicily, Patton was sidelined for nearly a year after the slapping incidents. During this time a disinformation campaign was put forth to convince the Nazis that Patton would command a non-existent army group that was to invade the south of France. A month after D Day Patton took command of the recently formed Third Army and drove across Europe, playing a pivotal role in the Battle of the Bulge. <br />In this book, Blumenson splices together the actual documents written by and about Patton as the actual events unfolded. Despite being an amalgamation of material from so many different sources, the book reads like a novel. Blumenson very rarely adds his own editorial commentary. This is done in a way that enhances the flow of the narrrative. My only complaint is that it frequently is difficult to determine where these asides begin and end. This readability is what makes the book great and unique. Having read many other biographies that over-analyze and inject the authors' personal opinion into the narrative it is refreshing to simply have the facts laid out in front of you. <br />Patton had an amusing tendency to give sarcastic nicknames to his rivals and adversaries. Omar Bradley is \\"the tentmaker,\\" both for his Arab name and his tendency towards caution, Eisenhower is \\"divine destiny\\" for his political ambitions. General W. Bedell Smith, Eisenhower's hated chief of staff, is variously referred to as Beadle andBeetle. At the same time he is privately mocking these people, Patton takes great pains to praise and flatter them publicly. He even admits to himself in his diary that he is a shameless bootlicker and rear-end kisser when necessary. Patton justifies his actions  because he feels he must be a sycophant to fulfill his destiny of leading men in battle. Patton even advises his son (who was a West Point Cadet at the time) that the way to advancement at the Academy is to seek out the Commandant and Superintendent and suck-up to them and their wives as much as possible.<br />I had low expectations for this book. Every other collection of the letters of famous men  I have read has been interesting in spots but unreadable as a whole.Even the famous collected letters of Pliny the Younger are mostly dreary reports to the emperor and uninteresting notes to friends. For Blumenson to have created such an entertaining and informative document from similar material is a remarkable achievement.	2003-04-25
US	42513672	R1LKT2KINX7B36	1556524323	397985120	The Worldwide Guide to Movie Locations	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superb, More Please	This book combines two of my main interests: travel and classic movies. British journalist Tony Reeves shares these interests to an extreme. He has personally visited and photographed an amazing number of movie locations. There is information provided here that I have not seen anywhere else. The book is organized encyclopedia-style with brief entries alphabetically ordered by film title. Important sites for each film are highlighted in bold type. There are several one or two page colour sections dealing with a topic or movie in greater-than-normal detail. Most movies are given only a few sentences or a paragraph at most; there are tiny black and white picture illustrating the more important listings. There is a very helpful section at the end organizing the movie listings by country. I would have liked to see more, some films could easily have been given pages of information and the most important classics such as Lawrence of Arabia, entire chapters. The author has a website movie-locations.com with some of the highlights of this book.	2003-04-09
US	42513672	R2RWP0U77LRO2H	3895088447	268168116	Libya: Lost Cities of the Roman Empire	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fascinating topic marred by poor photos	The Roman ruins of Libya have been seen by very few Westerners in recent decades. They are in a remarkable state of preservation. The enormous basilica of Septimus Severus at Leptis Magna, while a ruin, looks like it could easily be put back together to it's former glory. The excellent state of preservation is due both to the desert climate and to the near complete absence of tourism. Eric Newby writing in &quot;On the Shores of the Mediterranean&quot; describes the difficulties he went through in arranging a visit under the Quadaffi government. This book was produced by Italian archaeologists who remarkably have been able to continue their field work during Libya's current international isolation. The book is marred by the poor reproduction of the photos. The pictures are almost all underexposed with muddy shadow areas, flat highlights and an overall lack of contrast. A pity but the book is still worthwhile for a look at sites that most people will never be able to see.	2003-03-06
US	42513672	RGXR522IC60TP	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Engrossing Thought Provoking SciFi Masterpiece	Walter Miller was obviously a very intelligent man and this gem is less well known than it deserves to be. Miller combines humor, religion, and archaeology with a plausible end of the world doomsday scenario. There are bright moments but the novel ends depressingly with mankind destroying itself (again) after two thoudand years have been spent recovering from the previous end-of-the-world event. The story is entertaining despite having a unusual structure of taking place over a two thousand year period. The only constant is the monastery of Saint Leibowitz and the piety of the monks cloistered therein. Like the monks of medieval Europe who preserved and transmitted some of the knowledge of the classical world, the monks of Saint Liebowitz carefully preserve scraps of information from the vanished world of the late twentieth century. Just as the Renaissance was brought about by renewed interest in and discovery of relics of the classical world, in this book the rediscovery of the technology of the late twentieth century century brings about a second Renaissance. The only downside is the pessimistic ending, reflective perhaps of the inner demons that led Miller to commit suicide many years after writing this book.	2003-01-08
US	42513672	R1YVZT14TG8DXA	0749525282	790669711	Baedeker's Sicily	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Surprisingly good updated version of a classic travel series	The Baedeker guides are less well known in America than they deserve to be. They are harder to find in bookstores than the very good Rough guide or Michelin Green guide series or the awful Fodor series. <BR>This guidebook very pleasantly surprised me. There is a wealth of information here with profuse colour illustrations and details I haven't seen in other guidebooks. The book provides excellent in-depth supplemental information in the Baedeker's special sections. In this book there are helpful sidebars about the Mafia and the famous tonnara off Favignana (refereed to here as the \\"mattanza.\\") The small mountain town of Corleone made famous in the Godfather movies is nowhere to be found in other guidebooks but is given ample attention here. The fabulous Norman sites of Palermo are described in great detail. I was inspired to read John Julius Norwich's excellent history \\"The Normans in Sicily\\" by the information presented in this book. The short lived Norman dynasty of the 11th and 12th century left monuments in Sicily and especially Palermo that are still important features today. William the Conqueror's (Guillame le Conquerant) half brother Otho, bishop of Bayeux (who commissioned the Bayeux tapestry) came to Sicily after falling out of power in England. He died in Palermo in 1097 enroute to participating in the first Crusade.<BR>The guide gives well-deserved great detail to the fabulous Greek ruins of Sicily. I became less satisfied with my other Sicily guides after seeing all that they left out compared to this book. The Baedeker guide is a pocket sized 16mo and comes with a plastic jacket and a small map that is inadequate for driving directions but okay for familiarizing yourself with the geography.	2002-12-15
US	42513672	R1GYXCNF3SJWR2	0192880063	377536527	Southern France: An Oxford Archaeological Guide (Oxford Archaeological Guides)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Unique guide for archaeology minded traveler	The little known Oxford Archaeological Guides series provides information that you cannot find elsewhere This guide was written by Henry Cleere in 2001 and gives information about many of the (mostly Roman) archaeological sites of southern France. Sites are described in great detail with an emphasis on how the site might have looked in ancient times and changes occurring over centuries. Information is provided here that I have not seen in any other guidebook. The amazing Roman bridge the Pont du Gard, near Nimes, is described in great detail. This immense stone structure was built in 20 BC over the river Gard to supply water to the expanding settlement of Nemausus (present day Nimes). The automobile-sized stone blocks of which the bridge is built were quarried from a site less than a kilometer upstream. There is no better illustration of the power and wealth of ancient Rome than that such a massive structure was built (50 meters high and 275 meters wide) merely to provide abundant water for a minor settlement. Other not-to-be missed sites are given the attention they deserve: The very similar amphitheaters of Arles and Nimes are well described. The beautiful Roman theater and the triumphal arch at Orange are explored in detail I have not seen elsewhere. This book would not be suitable as the only guidebook to take with you on a trip, the information provided is far too specialized. I'd recommend taking along the Michelin Green guides or the Knopf guide for Provence as well. Some minor drawbacks: the drawings and maps are not as detailed as they could be and the few photographs that are provided are black and white and of poor quality. These complaints are not critical flaws; the book would still be invaluable even if it didn't contain a single illustration.	2002-12-15
US	42513672	R38FARHJ5P0VZ3	0192880136	249260373	The Holy Land: An Oxford Archaeological Guide from Earliest Times to 1700 (Oxford Archaeological Guides)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Unique guide for archaeology minded traveler to Israel	Unique guide for archaeology minded traveler<br />The little known Oxford Archaeological Guides series provides information that you cannot find elsewhere This guide was written by Jerome Murphy-O'Connor in 1980 and was revised for the new Oxford Archaeological guides series in 1997 as the initial offering of the series. O'Connor provides a wealth of information here that you wont find in regular guidebooks. The topic of biblical archaeology is too large to be addressed by any one book. The author squeezes all he can into less than 500 pages. The section dealing with Jerusalem is most detailed. Outlying sites receive less attention. There is useful information about hours of operation and practical matters such as directions to remote sites. In addition to describing the various areas of interest, there are sections giving the history of the different peoples of the holy land, both historical and present day including sections on the Druze, the Philistines, the Samaritans, the Essenes and the Nabateans. There is a good attention here to changes over time with an emphasis on how the appearance of each site evolved over the years. Interesting comparisons are made with the condition of sites in the present day and their description in ancient texts including Josephus' \\"The Jewish War\\" and the Bible itself. This book would be inadequate as the only guidebook for a visit to Israel. I would recommend the Knopf Guide to the Holy Land and Baedeker Israel for routine tourist information. Some minor drawbacks: the drawings and maps are not as detailed as they could be and the few photographs that are provided are black and white and of poor quality. These complaints are not critical flaws; the book would still be invaluable even if it didn't contain a single illustration.	2002-12-15
US	42513672	R8HKL8OLW2FH6	0192880039	137583437	Rome: An Oxford Archaeological Guide (Oxford Archaeological Guides)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Unique guide for the archaeology minded traveler to Rome	The little known Oxford Archaeological Guides series provides information that you cannot find elsewhere. This guide was written by Amanda Claridge in 1998 and gives information about many of the archaeological sites of Rome. Sites are described in great detail with an emphasis on how the site might have looked in ancient times and changes occurring over centuries. Famous artifacts that were once part of these sites are described and their present locations are mentioned. You learn where in the baths of Caracalla the famous Farnese Hercules and Farnese Bull were located and you learn how they came to be in the archaeological museum at Naples. There are little known sites like the tomb of the Scipios as well as places as familiar as the Piazza Navona and the Colloseum.  Obscure but fascinating information is given: the great brick reinforcing wedge on the southeast side of the Colloseum was built in 1807: I have not seen this information anywhere else. The oval Piazza Navona is built on the site of the Stadium of Domitian of 86 AD; the stores that line its periphery are built on top of the ancient seating. This book would not be suitable as the only guidebook to take with you on a trip, the information provided is far too specialized. I'd recommend taking along the Michelin Green guide or the Knopf guide for Rome as well. Some minor drawbacks: the drawings and maps are not as detailed as they could be and the few photographs that are provided are black and white and of poor quality. These complaints are not critical flaws; the book would still be invaluable even if it didn't contain a single illustration.	2002-12-15
US	42513672	R3S2AYDLQ3CKPX	038531387X	40474853	Deliverance (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Exciting Action Adventure	This remarkable book was James Dickey's first novel. The story is familiar to everyone who has seen the John Boorman-directed movie for which Dickey wrote the screenplay. I reread this recently after reading it over a decade ago and was stuck by how little action there actually is this the quintessential adventure story. Much of the novel is Ed Gentry's inner monologue. He thinks about his life and his dissatisfaction with his job. The canoe trip of this story is taken at the instigation of Lewis Medlock, the character played in the movie by Burt Reynolds. Ed regards it almost as a chore to be endured in order to please his friend. He goes through the motions without any passion until placed in a kill or be killed life threatening situation. You could say that Ed's ordeal is a rite of manhood. Despite being a man in his late thirties, he has not yet proved his own worth to himself. Like a manchild of a primitive tribe, he is sent out into the wilderness and must survive by his owns wits and courage or die trying.	2002-12-05
US	42513672	R8FCXPHQDD1R9	0385040725	612064026	The Caine Mutiny : A Novel of World War II	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Great WW II Book	I got around to reading this book recently after being familiar with the Bogart movie since childhood. The book is surprisingly good. I had low expectations. The movie has some bright moments but it is mostly a stale slow paced war story with a dull court room scene at the end and some inappropriate humor added for no apparent reason. The book is much better. I spent most of my free waking hours over three days reading this 500 page book straight through. The story revolves around Ensign Keith and his coming of age as a naval officer in the Pacific during World War II. At the outset he is an aimless recent Princeton graduate who volunteers for naval officer candidate school to avoid more dangerous service elsewhere. He is happy to ride out part of the war waiting for his OCS to begin. Keith then arranges a soft temporary assignment at Pear Harbor waiting for the Caine to return from a combat mission. The details of the story from there are very close to the movie's storyline. The sloppy but competent captain, DeVries, is replaced by the incompetent martinet, Queeg. The executive office Maryk relieves Queeg during a storm and Keith passively assists this mutiny. Wouk makes some interesting points which I had never seen expressed in writing before. During a discussion of the myriad pointless rules and regulations that must be followed on a navy ship, he puts forth an interesting and apt theory. These seemingly pointless rules are intentionally crafted this way by the handful of smart people who are in charge. The goal of these rules is to permit imbeciles to safely operate a ship by following these rules without any conscious thought. Anyone who is not an imbecile will have difficulty with this; the only solution for an intelligent person caught in a subodinate position is to wear a mask of stupidity in order to please superiors. Just like real life! Wouk was obviously an extremely bright man frustrated by the halfwits he served under. By the end of the book there isnearly complete reversal in Keith's opinion of the Navy. He is captain of the Caine for its last voyage to the scrapyard and his thoughts reveal great empathy with the DeVries and Queeg. Overall a great book giving a feel for what it was like to live and serve through the second world war.	2002-11-25
US	42513672	R2T8MW9B13PTLM	0312021518	745194633	African Game Trails: An Account of the African Wanderings of an American Hunter-Naturalist (Capstick Adventure Library)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Classic African Safari Travel Narrative	In 1909, just after the end of his term as President, Theodore Roosevelt traveled to Africa for a year long safari.The trip was a major undertaking ; hundreds of porters were needed to carry his baggage. Roosevelt's son, Kermit came along, taking photographs which are reproduced in the book. Roosevelt and company bag hundred of animals. It appears that all hunting rules were suspended for the ex-president. Roosevelt and son are soon blasting away at anything and everything that comes into view. British East Africa is described in terms that make today's politically correct readers wince. Attitudes have changed dramatically in less than one hundred years. It is odd to hear Roosevelt describe parts of Africa as a &quot;white man's country,&quot; suitable for large scale settlement by Europeans. The book bogs down and I was unable to read it without skimming through some parts. The descriptions of marching through wilderness and chasing after game on foot and on horseback seem to go on forever. There is a lot of great infomation here even if it is necessary to become your own editor by skipping though tedious parts.	2002-11-21
US	42513672	RRUMGXWHWUVG7	0380822245	759708546	Hombre	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Classic Elmore Leonard Western	After having read almost all of Leonard's crime novels, I finally got to this, his best known western. Written in 1961, it was  made into the 1967 Paul Newman movie. I was surprised at the differences here compared to recent Leonard novels. The anti-hero, John Russell, is a young white man raised by Apaches in 19th century Arizona. He inherits some property which requires taking a trip away from the reservation. On this trip a stage coach robbery goes wrong and Russell fights the robbers to the death. Like all other Leonard protagonists, Russell is a man of action and of few words. Unlike other Leonard heroes, he inexplicably sacrifices himself at the end of the book to save a women that neither he nor the others really care about. Chili Palmer, Frank Ryan, or Ernest Stickley would have never done a thing like that. Leonard employs an unusual device of having one of the minor characters narrate the story. Later books have either an omniscient narrator of the protaganist's inner dialogue serving as narrator. Very good but not as much fun as more recent hits.	2002-09-30
US	42513672	R36WRZN8HFD72V	0380654903	8490247	52 Pick-Up	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An Early Leonard Gem	I am a fan of Elmore Leonard's and have been looking for this book for a long time. I was very glad to see it finally back in print. The book was written in the early 70's before Leonard became the star that he is today. Despite that it has the same Elmore Leonard feeling of recent hits. There are shady characters intertwined with flawed good people in a plot that is always exciting while remaining plausible. In this case the protagonist Mitch is a modestly successful Detroit businessman who has an affair with a stripper. The stripper has some lowlife friends who blackmail Mitchell, threatening to reveal the affair to his wife. When Mitchell refuses to pay, the blackmailers up the ante by killing the girl and convincing him that he could be framed for the murder. Mitchell is a combat veteran; he takes matters into his own hands and the bad guys get their comeuppance. The Ann Margaret/Roy Scheider movie was quite faithful to the novel with the exception of changing the setting to Los Angeles. Ann Margaret especially captures the aging but still very attractive and sexy wife character.  I have read that Leonard writes his books with suitability for movie adaptation in mind including having certain actors in mind for the main characters. Many of the movies have screenplays that are taken word-for-word from the novel.	2002-09-25
US	42513672	R24TBNDXTSGFMG	2060000793	208330714	Michelin the Green Guide Sicily (Michelin Green Guide)	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Great Guide to Sicily	The Green Guide Sicily was added to this series in 1998 and gives you all the information you need for a trip to Sicily. <br />Sicily is not just the birthplace of the Mafia that Hollywood has led you to believe. It's a sleepy place untouched by tourist throngs with a wealth of beautiful Greek ruins. I visited in July 2001 and used this book as my main travel book. As in all the Michelin guides the cities and tourist attractions are listed are organized alphabetically without any geographic considerations so you need to refer to a map to find an unfamiliar place. There are limited maps printed at the beginning of the book. Hours of opening with telephone numbers are given at the back of the book for the major attractions. This is critically important; you don't want to drive across the island to arrive at place that's closed for the 3 to 4 hour midday siesta. Tourist amenities are limited in Sicily, I stayed at one of the best hotels in Palermo (according to the Italy Red Guide) and it was awful. In some remote places finding a place to buy cool drinks or snacks is a challenge that Americans used to having convenience stores everywhere will notice. The upside of this is that there are so few tourists that you get a unique perspective on the places you see. I spent 90 minutes at the superb Greek temple at Segesta during which I was the only person there for most of the time. There weren't many people at the Selunente or Agrigento Greek temples either. The guide refrains from gossipy editorializing, sticking to one or two pages of facts and picture or two of important sites. There is a useful system of prioritizing sites; Three stars is a must see, one star for sites worth visiting if you're in the area or have extra time on your hands. I found that I usually agreed.	2002-09-13
US	42513672	R11SI8T7DN7NSK	0374932336	738392231	Goodbye to All That	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Excellent First Hand Account of the First World War	I have been aware of this book with its' familiar title since childhood but I only recently read it. I feared it would be a dull dry-as-dirt retelling of war stories of forgotten dead men. I was pleasantly surprised. The book is not at all dull but <BR>presents Graves war experience in an exciting fast pased way. I had to skim the first part about his childhood. Every biography has a dull childhood section dealing with the subject's juvenile trails and tribulations and conflicts with family members. I find these universally uninteresting. <br />Graves was 17 when the war started and volunteered for officer candidate school within days. He became a lieutenant in the Royal Welch Guards and eventually was promoted to captain in charge of his own company of infantry by age 21. Unlike <BR>our present system where college is mandatory prerequisite for a young man seeking to become an officer, social standing determined that Graves would become an officer rather than an enlisted man. <br />Graves participates in several trench warfare battles. Trench warfare as Graves describes is a monotonous and dirty business. Rats are everywhere. Groundwater seeps relentlessly into living and fighting spaces. The men live in warrens of chambers cut into ground branching away from the main trenches. To break up <BR>the monotony and to show that he's not a coward, Graves often volunteers for scout duty. He sneaks into no mans land at night to assess the enemy. On occasion the senior officers order suicidal attacks in which every man of the company must go over the top and charge fortified machine gun positions. Graves <BR>tells of one attack in which his company was ordered to take part. Three companies go before his and each is destroyed with 100% casualties wounded or killed. Graves and his men are crouching poised at the top step of their trench waiting for their turn to attack when the attack is suddenly called off. In a later attack Graves is wounded by shrapnel and left for dead for over 24 hours before receiving medical attention. He recovers fully from these wounds but is assigned to training duty after his recovery. <br />Later parts of the book deal with Graves' first marriage, his education at Oxford, a failed attempt at shopkeeping and a post war teaching position in Cairo. I found these of less interest than the war scenes. Graves lived to age 90 and went on the write the immensely entertaining I, Claudius and over a hundred other books.	2002-08-16
US	42513672	R3S2XB8IPGYQOO	0679602348	601750908	Hunting Trips of a Ranchman and the Wilderness Hunter	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Ted's Excellent Hunting Adventures	The two books contained in this Modern Library edition are organized by species with each chapter devoted to hunting a particular animal during a hunting trips in the late 19th century in the American West. Some hunts were primarily intended to harvest meat while others were more oriented towards collecting trophy specimens. At other times Roosevelt stumbles upon game and kills it merely because it happens to cross his path. The bloodthirstyness of the hunters will be a shock to modern readers. Even those familiar with hunting may be taken aback by Roosevelt's \\"kill anything that moves\\" hunting philosophy. A modern hunter is limited by hunting seasons, bag limits and will usually not kill females with young. This was not the case in Roosevelt's day. He and his hunting companions gleefully slaughter any animal they come upon whether it's a bear sow with immature juveniles or a large record-book specimen. It was a different time then but it is laughable to hear Roosevelt described as a concerned conservationist and proto animal rights activist if you have really read his writing. There is one particularly disturbing episode where Roosevelt is sitting beside a stream with his hunting companions and sees a small animal walking along unafraid. In a matter of seconds Roosevelt pounces on the small creature, gutting and skinning it with his bare hands and laughing at his Native American companion's uneasyness at his needless cruelty.<br />Roosevelt's writing has an unfortunate tendency towards hyperbole. For example, he is incapable of simply eating a meal, instead he has a magnificent feast or a delicious repast. There is an annoying tendency to employ cute phrases that grate on a modern reader's ear. He refers to bears as \\"Ephraim\\" or \\"Bruin\\" and all large animals are \\"brutes\\" or \\"savage brutes.\\" Putting aside these minor complaints this book is a fascinating historical document which contains information about the natural history of North American game species that is still useful to hunters and outdoorsmen today.still useful to hunters and outdoorsmen today.	2002-07-30
US	42513672	R30CT5B6W4HNS9	0300079265	908188586	Picturing Hemingway: A Writer in His Time	Books	3	5	6	N	N	...limited selection of pictures	This book was produced as a companion to the National Portrait Gallery's Hemingway centennial celebration. It is a handsome quarto. The book is only 160 pages and much of that is text explaining the pictures. I expected more pictures and was disappointed with this book. Having read several Hemingway <BR>biographies and nearly all of his books I was disappointed that this book didn't even include everything I'd seen elsewhere. The recent Hemingway on Hunting compilation, for examples, contains many great pictures that are not included here. To give the editor credit, the pictures included are reproduced very <BR>nicely. There are also some pictures included of the first edition dustjackets of many of Hemingway's classics. Inexplicably some of these dustjackets are shelfworn creased examples; I'm sure it would not have been impossible to find perfect examples to photograph for this book if some effort had been made. This is a book that is worth spending 30 minutes browsing through in a library but I can't recommend paying [money] dollars for it.	2002-04-18
US	42513672	R1VWJH8J2N0AIA	0393317781	522745675	Hemingway: The 1930s	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Fourth Part of a Five-Part Hemingway Biography	This is the fourth installment in Reynolds's five part Hemingway biography. During this period Hemingway lived mostly in Key West. He wrote his first non-fiction bullfight book, Death in the Afternoon, To Have and Have Not and For Whom the Bell Tolls. He also spent a lot of time in latter part of this decade as a journalist covering the Spanish Civil War. He meets the journalist Martha Gellhorn in Key West and begins the relationship that will break up his second marriage.<br />Reynolds does a good job here but it is not as good as the two previous installments. There is much less detail given here compared to those books especially with regards to Hemingway's thoughts and state of mind while writing the books of this period. The other books had a nearly page by page account of what the great man was doing and thinking while he wrote The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms. This is noticeably lacking here. The account of the writing of For Whom the Bell Tolls is especially curt. That book, which is regarded as Hemingway's masterpiece, doesn't get the attention Reynolds gave to earlier works. I read somewhere that Hemingway contacted his publisher Charles Scribner during the writing of For Whom the Bell Tolls, telling him that one of the Spanish Civil War short stories he was writing had taken off in his mind and that he already had  written 40,000 words. This information is nowhere to be found here. Instead there are gossipy details of the relationship with Gellhorn and the unkind treatment Hemingway's second wife, Pauline, received at the end of their marriage.<br />There is a long account of Hemingway's first African safari which I found uninteresting. Reynolds stresses his subject's need to recreate the \\"summer people\\" of his youth, the group of friends that would gather at Walloon Lake in Michigan every summer of Hemingway's boyhood. Reynolds's tries to force every single relationship to fit this \\"summer people\\" thesis even when it is less than apt. There is overlong attention given to hunting trips and less attention to the actual writing than I would have liked. Reynolds has a disturbing tendency here to introduce a new person into Hemingway's life story without much explanation of how they came to meet and what caused them to be friendly. On several occasions a new friend will enter Hemingway's life and without any explanation immediately become the center around which the narrative revolves. This is unsettling and made me page back on several occasions looking for the first appearance of this person. Overall, a poor follow up to the previous books in this series.	2002-04-18
US	42513672	R3IQTINUIGMBTV	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	3	11	15	N	N	Alienation and Existentialism	I am a Philip K. Dick fan but I didnt like this book much. The plot here doesnt make much sense. The usual quirky take on the world of tomorrow is there. The central figure Jason Taverner (who is not the title character) is not particularly likable nor are his thoughts as expressed in his internal dialogue especially believable. This book gave me the impression that the author used the slim plot of the story as a framework to give us his take on situations from his own life and from events of the day. (The book was written in the early seventies.)  Taverner is a smarmy variety show host in the early 70s Johnny Carson mold. He is assaulted by a deranged woman with whom hes had a predatory sexual relationship and is grievously wounded. He loses consciousness and wakes up in sleazy motel.  Taverner discovers that he has lost his identity: no ones ever heard of him and theres no record of his existence. Taverner meets a delusional petite young woman and fantasizes about sex with her. Soon after they meet she demands that he have sex with her and he immediately is turned off. He meets an aging ex-girlfriend and takes advantage of her hospitality, putting her in danger of a police jam in the process. He cruelly mocks her fading looks to her face. Theres a funny scene where he describes a mural depicting the ascent into heaven of Richard M. Nixon. The policeman of the title and his S&M-minded sister seemed like bizarre characters inserted more for their weirdness than for appropriateness to the story. The powerful ruthless policeman shows that, underneath it all, hes just a touchy feely guy who would like to give the world a hug and a flower. His sister, on the other hand, is interested in weird sex and mind altering drugs. Theres an unlikely background story of a fascist police state holding left leaning university campuses in a state of siege; students are hunted down for extermination or deportation to labour/death camps. Its all very cute and funny but not enough to justify a book. I read this straight through on a ten-hour plane flight and I was left feeling emotionally isolated and disassociated and wanting those hours back.	2002-04-18
US	42513672	R2K0PRE5PBOVJX	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	3	14	23	N	N	Short breezy travel narrative	This book tells the story of the author's purchase of a large country home in the south of France. His experiences during the first year are recounted chronologically January through December. I have been aware of this book for a long time but did not get around to it until my own vacation to Provence. <br />Mayle's house is very large and has a significant plot of land around it which is farmed by a neighbor in exchange for a part of the crops (share cropper?) Mayle describes the usual colorful neighbors and workmen that are standard fare in such a book. All the old clichés are trotted out: the eccentric plumber, the tradesman who supervises his young assistant while he doesn't lift a finger, the psychotic antisocial neighbor with the ferocious dogs. There's an irritating passage where this neighbor is encountered hunting fox and a nonsensical recipe for fox stew is reproduced in its entirety! Hard working salt of the earth peasants type are duly described. There are assorted oddball visitors from back home coming unannounced and uninvited, mooching free hospitality to save hotel costs. <br />I found his telling strangely impersonal. He does not explain how he acquired the means to purchase such a house; it evidently cost a small fortune. Nor does he explain how he came to have a year at leisure. He apparently does no work during the entire year described. His activities seem to consist entirely of eating rich meals at Michelin-starred restaurants or supervising the slow and seemingly endless restoration of his new home. His wife is mentioned often but without ever once mentioning her name or her background. I couldn't even tell from the narrative if the writer was middle aged or a senior citizen.<br />I read this book during a trip to Provence to get a perspective that was different from tourist guidebooks. I was disappointed and felt I knew less about the region than I did after reading similar books by Frances Mayes and Eric Newby about Italy. Mayes self-centered perspective gives little insight into the region or it's people. I can't account for all the good reviews this book has received: mass hypnosis compounded by rampant me-tooism?	2002-04-17
US	42513672	R2DV0I6KL8REEL	044990945X	105659505	A Walk Across France	Books	5	5	7	N	N	British couple hikes from Mediterranean to the Atlantic.	This charming book tells the true story of a hike across France. Miles Morland and his French wife make this trip both to commemorate his retirement at age 45 and to try to mend their strained marriage. The author quits his high-pressure financial market job in London and takes a month long walk across France with his wife. They allow a month for the five hundred kilometer trip and set a grueling 20 to 30 kilometer per day pace for themselves. The author is strangely frugal for someone of his background. They stay in second-rate hotels in unfashionable parts of towns. They take meals in out of the way restaurants and are sullenly served by the haughty locals. His wife buys a pair of hiking boots to replace the uncomfortable blister-causing pair she brought from home, which they mail back to England. They take with them only the things that will fit into rucksacks they carry on their backs. This trip was a unique quest, more an ordeal than an adventure. Dogs, heavy traffic, and blistered sore feet torment them. I feel that they enjoyed themselves less than one has a right to expect on a month long vacation. An engaging read about a trip that I wouldn't want to try to duplicate myself.	2002-04-17
US	42513672	R3INTV1JBYJ8I6	0743435087	835439981	Dying Inside	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Excellent Psychological Study of Mortality	Robert Silverberg is a genius and this is deservedly regarded as one of his masterpieces. This semi autobiographical novel was written in 1972 and is set in 1976. The main character David Selig is a New Yorker with a strange gift for reading people's minds. He is in his early forties and is slowly losing this talent. He has been a ... loner all his life living in slums and only working enough to support his meager needs. He currently ghost writes term papers for Columbia University students to get a few dollars together and is unable to hold a normal job. He occasionally must rely on his sister for both moral and financial support but his relationship with her is ambivalent. Their love hate relationship dates from his earliest memories of hating her for taking away his parents attention.<BR> <BR>There is a humorous account of ten-year-old David with a child psychologist. Selig and Silverberg clearly have no use for the field of psychology. He amuses himself with the psychologist: given the Rorschach inkblot test he tells the quack the first things that pops into the psychologist's mind. He sees that the doctor thinks that the solution to his psychological problems is that he have a sibling and recites these thoughts verbatim back to him.<br />If one takes the loss of telepathy as a metaphor for the loss of youth and the realization that one is no longer young, then this book becomes an examination of the horror of facing one's own decline and eventual demise. There comes a time in everyone's life when you realize that you are getting old, that you are not going to live forever. You become aware of physical decline or gray hair or mental lapses that signal the coming of advancing age. Hemingway said that any story, if taken to it's logical conclusion, ends in death.  All of his writing hinted with a depressing subtext that the grim reaper is waiting for all of us. Most people go through childhood and early adulthood under the misapprehension that they are immortal and unbreakable. The popularity of so-called extreme sports among the young is a sign of this illusory feeling of immortality. It's not until middle age or some earlier brush with one's mortality such as caused by accident or illness that you realize that you too will eventually go the way of all flesh. <br />This knowledge is unsettling, to say the least, and it takes some effort to come to terms with this realization of mortality. In this story Selig slowly progresses from having intermittent \\"powers\\" to completely losing his gift after being beaten by a disgruntled term paper client. He reminisces about the gold old days when his powers were at their height, just as an older man may look back regretfully at his lost youth. By the novel's end, Selig comes to accept that he has lost his telepathy and sets his mind to living the rest of life as an ordinary man, just as anyone must make this accommodation with death and decay.	2002-04-17
US	42513672	RNI1E207UA19F	0394758277	283946848	Farewell, My Lovely	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Chandler�s Best	Farewell My Lovely puts Chandler's detective hero, Philip Marlowe on the trail of Moose Malloy, a hulking ex-convict who's looking for his ex-girlfriend Velma. Marlowe stumbles upon Malloy as he tears up a bar looking for her. Velma had worked there when the bar had a white clientele. The place has the same name but is now for coloreds only. Molloy murders the bar's owner. The police are uninterested since the victim was a person of color. Marlowe looks into the case on his own initiative, even though no client has hired him to do so. A mysterious wealthy playboy hires Marlowe to be his bodyguard at a ransom exchange. Marlowe is knocked unconscious and his client is murdered. The story proceeds from there with all the loose threads being tied together at the end. There are a lot of plot points that don't make much sense. <br />Bay City is a fictitious town abutting Los Angeles where a good part of the story takes place. It is a haven for crooked cops, corrupt politicians, quack doctors, phony psychics, and illegal casino gambling. Marlowe makes a huge effort, risking his life several times, to meet Brunette, the mob boss that runs Bay City.  That effort seems worthwhile only in hindsight. The climactic confrontation between Marlowe, Molloy and the missing girlfriend seems contrived. All of that is unimportant. Raymond Chandler's novels are appealing more for their witty dialogue and clever metaphors than for their stories. Farewell My Lovely's best line describes Moose Malloy's girlfriend: \\"It was a blonde. A blonde to make a bishop kick a hole in a stained glass window.\\" Molloy himself is described as follows: \\"He looked as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food.\\"  Pure genius.	2002-03-24
US	42513672	R2CGBPDVHKD2XI	0684830493	737092002	The Old Man And The Sea (Scribner Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Deconstructing Hemingway�s Nobel-Prize winning classic	I am not enthusiastic about this book but I respect it and I understand why it is considered a classic. The Nobel Prize for literature is more of a lifetime achievement award even though this book was specifically cited as follows: \\"For his powerful, style-forming mastery of the art of modern narration, as most recently evinced in 'The Old Man and the Sea.'\\" <BR> <BR>The book tells the story that is so familiar that I won't bother to repeat its details here. The original true story which Hemingway described in a journalism piece available in \\"Byline: Ernest Hemingway\\" was a brief account of a Cuban fisherman who hooked an enormous billfish in his little boat and got pulled out into the open ocean. The fish is attacked and partly devoured by sharks. A large fishing boat rescues the unnamed fisherman; he is delirious, having gone for days without food or water. The fish is brought back to the dock in Cuba: there's a picture of the huge and still formidable half eaten fish hanging by the tail.<br />Hemingway fictionalized this story almost two decades later to make it a symbolic parable about man's struggle against nature and against his own frailty. The old man, Santiago, holds on by sheer willpower, at one point he says to the fish, let me kill you or you can kill me, I don't care which. <br />In addition to speaking to the fish and to the sharks that attack at the end of his voyage, Santiago also spends time talking to his injured left hand, an obvious reference to the looming Communist revolution in Cuba. The fish and the old man Santiago represent the huddled masses of Cuba yearning to breathe free. The sharks that attack represent, variously, worldwide mercantile Capitalism, jingoistic American gunboat diplomacy and the oppressive authoritarian Bautista regime under which poor Santiago is starving to death. Santiago is able to beat down attacks by the first two but the last succeeds in picking clean the marlin's carcass. Thus, Hemingway shows that Cuban revolution had not yet developed sufficient strength in 1952 to overcome the brutal Bautista dictatorship.	2002-03-19
US	42513672	RKUKHBZ1S5NJ	0345384687	858634254	The Guns of the South	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Entertaining Civil War Fantasy	Guns of the South is an alternative history fantasy set in the American Civil War. Evil South Africans from the year 2014 time travel back to Robert E. Lee's winter camp in 1864 and supply the Army of Northern Virginia with AK-47 assault rifles. The Soviet and Yugoslav marked-rifles come complete with all the ammunition the Southerners can shoot. Absurd but entertaining. Lee puts the rifles to good use and overwhelms the Army of Potomac during the spring 1864 Wilderness Campaign. His forces overrun Washington and President Lincoln is forced to surrender on terms favorable to the Confederacy<br />The novel bogs down in the middle.  After this victory there is a drawn out middle section describing the early peace in the first few years after war's end. Turtledove must have been paid by the word for this book; that's the only way I can explain two hundred fifty pages of padding. Turtledove details such things as Lee's thoughts about the future of the Confederate States of America, day to day life in rural North Carolina and a secession referendum in Kentucky.<br />The last part of the book is about the Confederacy's war against the South African after they try to assassinate newly elected President Lee. In Turtledove's book Lee has become a politically correct abolitionist who campaigns and wins the Confederate Presidency on a plan to quickly outlaw slavery in gradual stages. The South Africans apparently wish to colonize the past, holding slaves and living on grand plantations. A book stolen from the library of the one of the South Africans from the future is purportedly what compels most of the Confederate leaders to change their minds about slavery. They see that in the future (the book they look at is published in 1997) slavery has come to be seen as abhorrent and they are ashamed. <br />This is the part of the book that I had the greatest problem with. Even if you can accept the time travel paradox scenario, the fact that the opinions expressed in a book from thefuture will cause Confederates in the 1860's to change their worldview is simply wrong. I'm sure the Romans or the French under Napoleon wouldn't have changed core beliefs simply because of concern over the opinions of future generations. It is also curious that, on the one hand, Turtledove presents the slave-owning Confederate leaders as basically good men, on the other hand, he presents the South Africans from the future as racist caricatures. The White South Africans did after all give up power to the majority and dismantle their nuclear weapons even before Guns of the South was written. It would be difficult for a sane person to argue that apartheid was worse than slavery. It may be that this reviewer is giving too much thought to what is best regarded as a richly detailed but harmless fantasy story.	2002-03-18
US	42513672	R3AX43P52BA0OP	0805058737	323177781	From the Holy Mountain: A Journey Among the Christians of the Middle East	Books	4	8	12	N	N	A youthful Brit retraces the path of Saint John Moschos	The young British travel writer William Dalrymple retraced the path of the 6th century monk John Moschos through the then predominantly Christian Middle East.<BR>  <BR>Dalrymple provides an in-depth look at this little visited and unreported region. In 1994, heady with the praise from his acclaimed books \\"In Xanadu\\" and \\"City of Djinns\\" he toured Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Egypt. He first visits the holy mountain of Athos in Greece and inspects the oldest surviving example of Saint Moschos' \\"The Spiritual Meadow.\\" The Greek Orthodox caretaker monk is horrified to learn that he has been tricked into permitting Catholic Dalrymple, a \\"heretic,\\" access to the sacred text. All through the region the Christian population is dwindling. Attacks on the persecuted minority by Muslim neighbors and the lack of opportunity in countries where they are a fringe group has led many to flee the countries that have been their homes for millennia. Dalrymple describes Christian churches being renovated for use as mosques. There is an excellent section describing the fortress like Armenian community of Ein Wardo built on a mountainside in southern Turkey The besieged Christians living there have had to fend off repeated genocidal attacks from their Muslim neighbors. Their olive trees have been burned and they are the prey of both the army and of rebels operating in the area. His criticism of the oppressors of the local Christian minority is politely muted until he comes to Israel where he put his full outrage on paper. Christian Armenians maltreated by Turks is no cause for alarm. On the other hand in Israel, where Christian Palestinians suffer under Israeli rule, Dalrymple hotly denounces the Israeli oppressors. Dalrymple visits the ancient monasteries of Israel including Saint Moschos' home monastery Mar Theodosius, near Bethlehem. These monasteries are timeless places where day to day life differs little from what it might have been a thousand years ago. There is a good description of many other churches and monasteries of Israel. At a church near Jerusalem, he helps a monk refill with oil the miraculous lamps that never need refilling!<br />If you can get over the fact that the twenty-five year old Dalrymple writes with an annoyingly smug self-assured lecturing tone that implies that he has solutions to thousand year old problems which have no solutions, this book gives an broad based look at a little known and poorly understood region.	2002-03-18
US	42513672	R2LYGR4WHMO8AW	0864427689	735284703	The Last Grain Race	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Exciting sailing adventure	In 1938 Eric Newby was eighteen years old. He left a dead end job with an advertising agency in London and signed as an apprentice seaman on the four-masted sailing ship Moshulu for a trip to bring back a shipload of grain from Australia. Moshulu was one of a dozen sailing ships still engaged in the grain trade and the 1938 trip was destined to be the last of the merchant sailing era. <br />Newby is undeservedly less well known than other writers who have imitated him. His books, \\"A Small Place in Italy, \\"On the Shores of the Mediterranean\\" and  \\"The Big Red Train Ride\\" have been imitated by other authors. His writing style is spare and matter-of-fact; he doesn't try to impress the reader with overblown prose instead letting the facts speak for themselves without florid editorial comment.<br />There's a funny account a trick played by the Belfast stevedores on the sailors of Moshulu. Among the tons of rocks loaded into the hold were two dead dogs. The decomposing dog carcasses fill the ship's hold with an overpowering odor that plagues the men as they dump out the ballast and load the grain months later off the shore of Adelaide.<br />The Last Grain Race goes into great detail describing the operation of a sailing ship, complete with obscure jargon names for the sails and rigging. Newby seems to have been working too hard on the trip to completely enjoy and appreciate it. The books gives a glimpse at a lost world of merchant sailing ships and the quiet life of sailors at sea, now exchanged for sparsely manned giant container ships crossing vast oceans in a matter of days.  <br />Moshulu returns to Queenstown, Ireland on June 10, 1939 after a pace-setting 91-day passage by war of Cape Horn.  It had taken 8 months for a round-trip in which Moshulu brought 4,875 tons of grain from Australia to Ireland. Newby leaves the ship a full-fledged Ordinary Seaman. World War II will start in a few months and obliterate the peaceful world of merchant sailing ships.	2002-03-18
US	42513672	RGJ5QXIGS7AEC	0394722051	115531022	In a Free State	Books	4	9	12	N	N	A Minor Masterpiece from V. S. Naipaul	In a Free State won the Booker Prize in 1971 as the best novel by a Commonwealth author. The books consists of two short stories, two travel pieces and the title novella.<br />The 120 odd page novella, \\"In a Free State,\\" describes a visit to a remote hotel deep in the African bush.  Two Europeans travel overland over rutted roads to a run down deserted hotel. Bobby and Linda travel as a couple but Bobby prefers men. He tries to seduce the African servant boy but is rebuffed. This book marks Naipaul complete departure from the folksy half-joking style of his earliest works. There's no warmth or humor just a cold depiction early post-colonial Africa.<br />\\"One Out of Many,\\" a thirty page short story, is more in the style of his earliest works: \\"A House for Mr. Biswas,\\" \\"The Mystic Masseur, \\" and  \\"Miguel Street.\\" It tells the story of Santosh, a poor Hindu who accompanies his employer from Bombay to Washington, where the employer has taken up a diplomatic posting. Santosh had slept on the sidewalk in Bombay, that being impermissible in Washington, his boss generously gives him use of a walk closet as his sleeping quarters. He misses the companionship of sleeping on the Bombay sidewalks under the stars with his friends. He runs away from his boss, to whom he owes his plane fare from India and takes a job at a newly opened Indian restaurant. Santosh is terrified by the race riots that erupt in Washington. He meets a hubshi (black) woman and is disgusted at himself for having sex with her. He has some money because he sells some of the weed he has brought with him from India. This weed, which grows wild and free for the gathering in India, is marijuana. He is so socially inept that he buys a bright green suit. He becomes wise to the ways of the world and demands a raise from his restaurateur boss who has been paying him miserably. All the while he is afraid his old employer will come to take him back or have him deported. On the advice of his new boss he marries the hubshi woman and becomes a U.S. citizen, thereby solving all his problems. The fact that Santosh has a wife and children back in his home village in India doesn't matter.<br />A very funny touching story that would have made a great novel, maybe titled:  \\"A Green Card for Mr. Santosh.\\" I liked this better than the title novella which is dark, gloomy and has no real action: Bobby and Linda drive through the African bush country, they stay at a run down hotel, they walk through the town one night. That's it!<BR> <BR>The other short story is unmemorable. The two travel narratives dealing with sightseeing trips to Egypt are very good and are much like Naipaul's two Islamic travel books for their insightful and critical look at a strange culture.	2002-03-18
US	42513672	R2JPESD6HFS8IY	0631153527	282163709	Hemingway: The Paris Years	Books	5	47	48	N	N	The True Story of A Moveable Feast	Michael Reynolds's Hemingway, The Paris Years is the second volume of his five volume life of Hemingway. Reynolds's takes pains in his introduction to thank and praise Carlos Baker for his Hemingway biography, but Reynolds's work has become acknowledged as the greater of the two. This volume deals with Hemingway's Paris years from 1921 to 1926, the same period that Hemingway describes in his short memoir, \\"A Moveable Feast.\\" <br />The twenty-two year old Hemingway is newly married to his first wife Hadley and has been advised by his American literary mentor, Sherwood Anderson, to go live and work among the writers and artist of Paris' Left Bank expatriate pack.<br />Reynolds present Hemingway's Paris years in detailed chronological order. He occasionally goes into greater detail than is appropriate for good story telling but the book reads for the most part like a novel. Hemingway takes a trip to Italy to visit his WWI haunts in Milan and the riverbank where he was wounded. Hemingway's early work as a reporter for the Toronto Star takes him to some of the major political events of the 1920's. He interviews Mussolini mere months before he seizes power in Italy and attends a 1922 Genoa conference that is eerily similar to the 2001 Genoa conference. He takes exciting bullfighting trips to Spain wherein the development of Hemingway aficion for bullfighting is well described. The details of Hemingway's climb up the literary pecking order are made clear. He is being referred to as the best young American novelist by friendly critics years before he has published a novel.<br />The painstaking process by which Hemingway fashioned his early, classic short stories is described in you-are-there detail. The pugnacious Hemingway picks fights with perceived rivals, both with fisticuffs and with his writing. The long and difficult negotiation by which his first publisher, Boni and Liveright publish his first widely available book, \\"In Our Time,\\" is well described. It seems that \\"In Our Time\\" was published almost more as a favor to Sherwood Anderson and Hemingway's other literary fans than on it's own commercial merit. Hemingway's dissatisfaction with Boni and Liveright's efforts for him is described as well as Fitzgerald's efforts to bring Hemingway to Scribner's. Hemingway writes the short satiric novella \\"The Torrents of Spring\\" to force Boni and Liveright to break their contract with him and then gives his first real novel, \\"The Sun Also Rises, \\" to Scribner's.<br />The book ends with Hemingway on his way home to Paris from New York in winter 1926. He has successfully broken his contract with his first publisher and signed a new contract with Scribner's.<br />I sometimes feel sorry for the biographers of great men. In this case, the subject, Hemingway, lived his larger-than-life life to the fullest, grabbing all the gusto, having his adventures and love affairs while the poor biographer is trapped in his academic cocoon, poring over old papers, scribbling in notebooks, devoting his own life to writing about someone else's life. Such is the lonely world of biographers. Those thought aside,  \\"Hemingway, The Paris Years\\" is a one fifth of monumental achievement by Reynolds and a must read for any fan of the great man.	2002-03-15
US	42513672	R2Y0QLZR66GOPZ	0684833638	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Charming Memoir of a Young Hemingway in Paris	This posthumously published short book is a memoir of Ernest Hemingway's Paris years in the mid 1920's. It is written as a series of brief vignettes with real names. Hemingway looks back, writing in the late 1950's in Cuba to the days in Paris when he was poor, young and happy. Hemingway describes coming to Paris from America in the early 1920's and meeting some of the literary expatriates of the Left Bank. He describes his friendship with Gertrude Stein, Ezra Pound and Ford Maddox Ford. He recalls a rainy road trip taken across France with F. Scott Fitzgerald. He joins Sylvia Beach's Shakespeare and Company lending library and takes vacations to Italy, Austria and Spain. He works as a journalist for the Toronto Star while writing short stories and seeking to make a name for himself as a writer. He describes his discovery of and passion for bullfighting. He publishes collections of short stories and begins work on his first real novel.<br />Hemingway's Paris days are spent sitting in cafes. He takes the act of writing seriously and sets out rules to keep his mind clear and prevent writer's block. He takes delight in discovering Shakespeare and Company, the Paris bookstore selling English language books. He has plenty of time to go sightseeing with his first wife Hadley during those years in Paris when they were \\"poor and happy.\\"<br />There is palpable sense of the older Hemingway looking back nostalgically on the good old days. He speaks frankly of his old friends, pulling no punches even to the point of portraying them quite unflatteringly. Most interesting of all is his ritualized approach to writing. He writes only in the morning, usually alone in a small room he has rented just for that purpose. He forces himself to stop while his story is still unfolding in his mind so that he will have something to write about the next day. He makes a point of reading books, visiting museums and especially observing Parisians going about their daily business. These things he incorporates into his writing.<br />This is not a novel in the traditional sense, nor is it a rigidly chronologically ordered memoir. The starting and ending points of the vignettes are not specifically defined. I would recommend that anyone who reads this follow up by reading Michael Reynolds's \\"Hemingway, The Paris Years.\\" The timeframe of the two books almost perfectly coincides and Reynolds's book will give you a perspective on the things Hemingway leaves unsaid.<br />The final chapter in which Hemingway places the blame for the break-up of his first marriage to Hadley on his second wife Pauline Pfeifer, while not taking any responsibility for his unfaithfulness, is almost bizarre to read. Since this book was published after his death, it is surprising to me that his children by Pauline did not wish to see it suppressed.  Pauline is portrayed as a husband stealing, back stabber single mindedly luring an unwilling Hemingway away from his loving gullible wife and young child.	2002-03-15
US	42513672	R6SRM2HT8VDO1	1585743712	826641288	Hemingway on Hunting	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Hemingway hunting related fiction and nonfiction compilation	The handsome book contains no new material but is a compilation of hunting-oriented short stories, non-fiction pieces and excerpts from novels. There's a very good scene from \\"Across the River and Into the Trees\\" about duck hunting from blinds near Venice. There is a nice selection of photographs of the author with various trophies. One in particular is spectacular showing Hemingway about to fire his rifle at a huge charging lion. The perspective is from just behind Hemingway, his rifle is raised to his shoulder and the onrushing lion appears to be only a few feet away. Another shows Hemingway standing next to same lion, now very dead.<br />The longish short story The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber\\" which is arguably his best short story is included. It tells the story of wealthy American and his beautiful wife on safari in Africa. The title character behaves shamefully during a lion hunt. That night, his wife sleeps with the white hunter to show her displeasure. The next day while hunting buffalo, he redeems himself and proves that he is not a coward, both to himself and to the onlookers.  The short happy life of the title refers to that fact that soon after redeeming his injured manhood against the buffalo, his wife accidentally (or perhaps not accidentally) shoots him in the head as a wounded buffalo charges.<br />If you are a fan of Hemingway's you've probably read much of this stuff before elsewhere, the non-fiction pieces may be hardest to find elsewhere. This book makes a great gift for a hunting enthusiast who is not especially literary oriented.	2002-03-15
US	42513672	R3IZF3S827XJFL	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another Masterpiece from the Mind of Philip K. Dick	This is Philip K. Dick's best known work thanks to the Ridley Scott movie. The movie is an action-packed special effects extravaganza whereas the book is more introspective philosophical affair.<br />The novel tells the story of one day in the life of bounty hunter Rick Deckard (played by Harrison Ford in the movie). He lives in early twenty-first century San Francisco. A nuclear holocaust has wiped out most life on the planet. Most species are extinct, vast areas of the planet are uninhabitable and many people have migrated to colonies on Mars and other planets. Androids have been developed to function as workers on these colonies but they are forbidden on Earth. It's never made clear why they are forbidden on Earth but the penalty for coming to Earth is death and Deckard is the man who hunts down and kills the androids.<br />Much is made over mankind's newfound love for all forms of life. The peripheral character John Isadore finds a bug outside his apartment and is filled with joy at having found a wild living creature. Isadore is a \\"chickenhead,\\" genetically damaged and mentally enfeebled by the nuclear fallout of World War Terminus. Isadore starts to live with three of the androids that Deckard must retire. <br />It comes out late in the story that the androids are not mechanical robots but rather artificially created living beings with a 4-year life span. This explains why it is so hard for the bounty hunter to tell if someone is an android and why psychological testing of one's empathy with other living creatures is needed. There's a funny scene where Deckard discovers that Rachel Rosen is an android by noting her lack of reaction to a description of a babyskin wallet.<br />There's little point in trying to link all the plot points that are odds with each other. Dick wrote most of his novels in a hurry and not everything makes sense or is holistically consistent. That's okay. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep is great escapist science fiction that I'll takeany day over The Scarlet Letter or somesuch literary torture.	2002-03-13
US	42513672	R9JUE4PH8468Y	0679764518	261891852	Knopf Guide: Naples and Pompeii (Knopf Guides)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Best In-Depth Guide to the Naples area	The Knopf guides series are unique. They combine colorful pictures, in-depth historical background and detailed descriptions of sightseeing attractions. They are handsomely bound on bright glossy paper. I preferred the old style of plastic semi-hard binding that has recently been phased out. There are so many great places to visit in the Bay of Naples that they couldn't cover it all and include everything but it's better than any other I've seen. <br />Guides such as the Michelin Green Guides series will devote just a few paragraphs to an attraction. Such guides have the advantage of being organized in a more orderly way that's much more conducive to touring by car.You can read a few sentences about the place you are about to see before you get out of your tour bus or rental car. The Knopf guide instead would be better read at home even before taking any trip. The wise traveler would be best served by having an in-depth guide such as this or the Rough Guides series and a guide with brief descriptions like the Michelin guide.<br />The Naples guide contains excellent separate sections for Pompeii (over twenty pages), Paestum, Capri and Herculaneum.   <BR>If you are an archeology buff like me this is a great improvement over the 1 or 2 pages that other guides devote to these important but overlooked historical sites. The three delightful Greek temples at Paestum are older than the Parthenon in Athens and less than 100 miles south of Naples on a flat plain (no climbing up a hill as in Athens).<br />A minor negative point is the use of drawings where photographs would have been more useful; this seems to be true for all of the Knopf guides I've seen. An aerial photograph to give the lay of the land of a city or historical site would be more useful than a drawing that is of uncertain accuracy.	2002-03-12
US	42513672	R14R10IIKYB950	0679731741	821996423	Guerrillas	Books	2	6	8	N	N	I'm a fan of Naipaul's but I didn't like this book	I came back to this novel after giving up on it after the first chapter a few years ago. I have read Naipaul's non-fiction account of the Michael X murders in Trinidad in his \\"The Killings in Trinidad.\\" The book fictionalizes the story of murders committed at a black-power commune led by Michael X, a former pimp and accused rapist who returned to his native Trinidad in the early 1970's after living in England for many years. <br />The novel is very dark and grim with a sense of doom and gloom permeating the lives of all the characters. There is not one likable character. Naipaul takes pains to imply that the book is not set in Trinidad even though the actual events did occur there. This Trinidad is very different from the folksy Dickensian Trinidad of A House for Mr. Biswas and The Mystic Masseur. The Trinidad he describes in this book is a dreadful place ready to explode with civil war and racial violence. The wealthy and mostly white live in fear in exclusive enclaves in mortal fear of their own servants. The underclass blacks live in slums seething with barely suppressed violence.<br />The atmosphere of fear is well described but it unfortunately does not make this an enjoyable book. There were several stylistics touches that I found especially irritating. A very representative example is at the very end of the book. Jimmy Ahmed is the Michael X character. Near the end of the book there is a sex scene between Jimmy and Jane, the visiting British hipster. This sex scene becomes a rape scene. Just before Jimmy sodomizes Jane, ... he forcefully kisses her, forcing her mouth open and spitting into her mouth while repeatedly saying, \\"love, love.\\" I can only interpret this as an inability on Naipaul's part to write sex scenes.<br />Scenes such as this leave the reader with a bad taste in his mouth. Avoid unless you feel you must read every word the great man has written.	2002-03-12
US	42513672	R1C3QNGV5XQD0O	0394758285	849452523	The Big Sleep (A Philip Marlowe Novel)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Simply the best	The Big Sleep is one of those books that is so good that you don't want to it to end. You savor each sentence like a spoonful of ice cream. The dialog and atmosphere time travel you back to 1930's L.A. Chandler had a gift for writing sharp little ironic phrases that stick in your mind. There's an unforgettable line in \\"Farewell, My Lovely\\": &quot;It was a blond. A blond to make a bishop kick a hole in a stained glass window.&quot; The Big Sleep has some improbable moments but it more than made up for by the whole. There is no need to worry that some plot turns are inexplicable; the book is more about atmosphere and snappy dialogue than the details of Marlowe's detective case.   <br />What struck me more than anything was how much better it is than detective classics written at the same time. Hammett's \\"The Thin Man\\" is unreadable by comparison. The over-repeated quote about Chandler writing like a slumming angel is apt; the next book you read after The Big Sleep will be a tedious chore to by comparison.  The Bogart movie is in some ways unusually faithful to the text of the book, some dialog is repeated word for word. The ending of the movie is perhaps better than the novel, as others have pointed out. The book has no concluding confrontation with Eddie Mars but does explain the fate of Sean Regan.	2002-03-12
US	42513672	R3HIJIELMY22P4	0679749187	939119777	Knopf Guide: Venice (Knopf City Guides)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Best In-Depth Guide to Venice	The Knopf Guide Venice provides a colorful picture-packed in-depth guide to Venice and the surrounding attractions of the Venice Lagoon. Like all the Knopf guides there is an extensive introduction giving the historical background to Venice. The individual tourist attractions are described in great detail with copious illustration. I wish more photographs were used rather than drawings. This minor fault is common to all the Knopf guides. There are good sections describing Murano, Burano, Lido and San Michele (the Cemetery Island) as well as the obligatory tourist attractions. <br />A visit to Venice is a jarring experience; Venice being like no other place on earth. The real 18th century (and older) architecture seems almost fake, you have to pinch yourself to be reminded that it's not a new Disney ride: \\"Pirates of the Adriatic.\\" The Knopf guide prepares you for all this if you have the foresight to read it in advance, before taking your trip. There is too much to take in during the typical brief tourist visit. There's great advice about what to try to see with itineraries for a 1-day, 3-day and weeklong visit. A great piece of advice is to get a feel for Venice by staking out a seat in the rear open area of a waterbus.  If you buy an inexpensive multi-day pass, this gives you a cheap but comprehensive tour of the city and let's you get off and on repeatedly wherever you like. <br />Venice hotel rooms are small and expensive. You will pay more for a small walk-in-closet-sized room than for a comfortable room with sitting area in Room or Milan. Despite this, I think it is necessary to stay overnight rather than make daytrips from outlying suburban hotels in order to get the true flavor of the city. Walking through Venice at night makes you feel like a character in Othello; you won't get that if you have to leave at the end of the day. The Knopf guide does include some hotel recommendations but it's very limited. A better bet for choosing a hotel would be the Michelin Red Guide Italy. The Red Guide just gives listings with abbreviations describing the accommodations. The Knopf guide can give you an idea about the neighborhood your hotel is in before making a specific choice from the Michelin Red Guide.	2002-03-12
US	42513672	R1K81WY5D6YCLY	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	5	223	255	N	N	The Grasshopper Lies Heavy	Philip K. Dick's masterpiece is one of the classics of the alternative history genre. This was my first Philip K.Dick novel and it's so good that I want to light up a Land-o-Smiles and read everything he's ever written. The characters seem like real people. The story is told through interleaved overlapping stories that revolve around the Nazi and Japanese domination of America after America and the British lost WWII in 1947. It's 1962 and the United States has been divided between the Nazis in the East and the Japanese in the West. America has become a third world country controlled and exploited by the victors. The Japanese are better masters than the Germans. The Germans have turned their part of the world into a living nightmare and are plotting to start a war with the Japanese. The Japanese are quiet and philosophical. The scenes of life in Japanese dominated San Francisco are oddly familiar. Dick has transposed the usual circumstance a visiting American finds in third world countries friendly to the United States: Wealthy foreigners living in exclusive enclaves, fawning local businessmen eager to get the foreign visitor's business, local police dominated and loosely controlled by the foreigners. The I Ching is central to the story, guiding the action of many of the protagonists. <br />In all an imaginative take on what life could have been like, uniquely flavored by the influence of Eastern Philosophy.	2002-03-08
US	42513672	R33S34MZ9E5YP3	0684825538	11530247	Across The River And Into The Trees	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Deservedly regarded as one of Hemingway�s lesser efforts	Across the River and into the Trees is the story of an ill American colonel in post war Venice. He is \\"half-a hundred\\" years old and suffering from an incurable heart condition. He has an 18-year-old girlfriend. She is a wealthy Italian countess who likes to have sex with him in the back of a gondola on freezing cold nights... Yeah, right.<br />If you can get past the absurdity of this central conceit there are some good points in this novel. There is a lovingly detailed description of Venice.  If you've been there you will recognize the places Hemingway describes. There is a long account of duck hunting on a frozen marsh that is quite true to life. The forgotten tense situation in post-war Trieste, with the United States expecting a Soviet invasion at any moment, is convincingly presented. Hemingway also presents his unflinching opinions on some of great figures of World War II in Europe.<br />Unfortunately the whole is not very good. The dialogue between the dying colonel and the teenage countess is painfully malapropos. His buddy-buddy relationship with the hotel workers at the Gritti Palace seems contrived. Worth reading only if you want to read every word the great man wrote.	2002-02-19
US	42513672	R1ERJFUDFG65XE	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	2	16	17	N	N	One of Naipaul's Lesser Efforts	I was eager to read Naipaul's first novel in years even though the reviews were decidedly more polite than enthusiastic. Paul Theroux's review in the Independent was quite harsh but I attributed that to past bad blood.<br />This short novel tells the story of the first 41 years in the life of Willie Chandran. Willie is a Hindu Indian born of a Brahmin father and \\"backward\\" (untouchable) mother. This mixed marriage makes him an outsider in his native village. He is educated by Christian missionaries and goes to college in London. He writes a book of short stories while still a student. This slender book causes him to meet Ana, a mixed race Portuguese from Mozambique. Ana thinks she has found a soulmate in Willie; his writing has touched her so deeply. In actuality Willie has merely rewritten scenes remembered from old Hollywood movies. Willie sees in Ana a way to avoid returning to India or facing the reality of finishing school without a job to go to in London. Willie relocates to Ana's estate in Mozambique and settles into a quiet life. Ana has inherited the estate from her grandfather. Willie and Ana do little work; they attend parties and visit other settlers. Almost all of their friends are of mixed race. The pure white Portuguese settlers tend to stand aloof from those that are of mixed race, regardless of comparable wealth. Willie begins to go to brothels with an acquaintance, an estate manager from a nearby farm. He then begins an affair with Graca, the mixed race wife of another estate manager. In the background African rebels are fighting the Portuguese colonial government and, so slowly that is almost imperceptible, they take over...<br />The book left me with a curiously empty feeling. I never was able to empathize with the hero, Willie, or any of the other characters. It seems that the events in the book are an amalgamation of the author's experiences and of people and events he has observed in his travels. The tale of the conception of Willie's book ofshort stories could be a reworking of the authors own experience in creating Miguel Street, his first book, a jokey collection of short stories set among working-class and underclass East Indians in Trinidad. The description of Willie's father in later life seems to be taken from the middle of The Mystic Masseur, where the title character becomes a mystic and faith healer with his own ashram. The early part of his father's life reminds me of his description of lazy Indian bureaucrats he encountered in An Area of Darkness while trying to recover some confiscated bottles of liquor. The description of the strict hierarchy of social standing among mixed race and pure Portuguese settlers reminds me of his non-fiction travel narrative, The Middle Passage. In that book, Naipaul describes a visit to Martinique in 1962 (Martinique/Mozambique, get it) where the race consciousness is so pervasive that a blonde blue-eyed fair skinned person who is only 15/16 white would never dare to call himself anything other than \\"`colored.\\" Scenes in Willie's life in Mozambique are reminiscent of A Bend in the River. Salim from that novel and Willie both go to dance hall brothels for anonymous sex with young African women. They both have torrid affairs with the wives of acquaintances. Both affairs end suddenly with African revolutionary violence going on in the background. <br />All these borrowings create a whole that is less than the sum of its parts. I must agree with Theroux who says in his review that it is unlikely that this book would have been published had it been written by an unknown author. Naipaul is certainly still capable of great things. The recent Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples is (to use Naipaul's own words as related by Theroux  in Sir Vidia's Shadow) \\"frightfully good.\\" His description of the forlorn fear-stricken lives of Iranians after twenty years of Islamic theocracy is especially superb. That book makes me judge Half a Life more harshly and makes me ask \\"what happened here?\\"	2002-02-19
US	42513672	R2IVCAUYUUDJ5L	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great Concept	This science fiction classic is based on a fascinating premise. The world has been destroyed. All of mankind has been resurrected by unseen all-powerful aliens on a strange planet. They are given the minimum requirements for survival and are secretly observed as they fight, make love and build communities. No one can die (not for long, anyway) or grow old. All people from prehistory to the present day are resurrected together with geographic considerations preventing complete mingling of peoples. The hero of this novel is Sir Richard Burton, the 19th century writer.<br />In a scene that the makers of The Matrix must have cribbed from this book, Burton awakes just prior to resurrection and sees endless rows of unconscious bodies tethered to strange machines stretching out in every direction as far as the eye can see. The memory of this makes him unwilling to accept his condition and he travels the length of the endless river that snakes over the surface of the planet to try to find the aliens and determine their motives<br />So far so good. The story bogs down in fleshing out of what must have been a great short story. Burton is interesting enough choice as the protagonist but given that Farmer had all of mankind to choose from, why not Alexander or Caesar or Napoleon? Why choose Hermann Goring as Burton's archenemy? How about Hitler or Attila? There are far too many actions scenes that end with Burton killing himself or being killed in order to pop up re-resurrected at another spot on the planet. My only interpretation of this childish literary \\"device\\" is that Farmer couldn't think of any other way to have the story move forward. Despite these stylistic flaws, the central conceit of life after death as a space alien's science project makes this book worthwhile reading.	2002-02-19
US	42513672	R25VXS2KO4YXN0	0440176492	318175385	Spartacus	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good Historical Novel Overshadowed by Great Movie	Howard Fast's 1951 novel was the inspiration for the fantastic Kirk Douglas movie. Compared to the movie, the book is a slow-paced introspective affair. At the outset of the novel, the slave revolt has recently been beaten. A party of rich Romans travels the Via Appia from Rome to Capua. Private travel has just been permitted after 4 years of Servile War. The story is told out-of-order with various peripheral characters recollecting the dead slave leader.<br />Fast makes much of the poor treatment Romans gave their slaves. Fast goes completely over-the-top when he implies that the Romans engaged in cannibalism, chopping up dead slaves to make sausage for export. This contradicts many classical sources that repeatedly tell of slaves buying or being granted their freedom and becoming important and powerful members of Roman society. After two thousand years who really knows what happened?<br />The characters of Spactacus and his wife Varinia are poorly drawn. Spartacus is saccharinely depicted as too good to be true. There is an absurd ending wherein Gracchus steals Varinia from Crassus, frees her and then kills himself. This would have been best left out. There is a long chapter dealing with the Jewish slave David that I had to skim through.<br />The character of the Roman general Crassus is well formed. He is a ruthless man of action much like Olivier played him in the movie. He has no empathy at all for the six thousand defeated slaves he crucifies along the Via Appia. Interestingly, no mention is made of the fact that Crassus met his own grisly fate not long after the events in the novel. He was beheaded after losing a battle against the Parthians.<br />Fast makes great efforts to fit the Spartacus story into his class struggle/Proletariat versus Capitalist worldview. There is an awkward scene where Crassus takes his young guests to a perfume factory he owns in Capua. Fast writes dialogue that makes the Roman patrician out to be proto-robber baron. In fact, work and especially involvement in business was considered disgraceful among the Roman upper classes. No self-respecting ex-consul would do such a thing.<br />If the reader can ignore these awkward moments there is a good story interwoven among the dialectical materialism The reader must mentally edit out these tedious digressions much as the War and Peace reader is better off skipping Tolstoy's non-sequiturs about the nature of war. There is, hidden in over 350 pages, a good 250 page historical novel.and especially involvement in business was considered disgraceful among the Roman upper classes. No self-respecting ex-consul would do such a thing. <br />If the reader can ignore these awkward moments there is a good story interwoven among the dialectical materialism The reader must mentally edit out these tedious digressions much as the War and Peace reader is better off skipping Tolstoy's non-sequiturs about the nature of war. There is, hidden in over 350 pages, a good 250 page historical novel.	2002-02-19
US	42513672	RKZ9W9XHIE7PG	0618001999	419114277	Sir Vidia's Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Secret Life of Writers	Sir Vidia's Shadow tells the story of the thirty-year friendship between Paul Theroux and V. S. Naipaul. They met in Uganda in 1966 where Theroux was teaching English at Makarere University. Naipaul was already famous and had published several books; Theroux was unknown but aspired to be a novelist.<br />Naipaul takes a liking to Theroux (in his own way) and encourages and helps him. Naipaul introduces Theroux to his British publisher. He invites Theroux to parties where he introduces him as an up and coming author. Meanwhile, even though Naipaul is famous (and is already in the late 60's being referred to as one of the greatest living writers in English), he struggles to earn a living. He takes unappealing teaching and journalism jobs to make ends meet; the very kind of work against which he warns Theroux. Theroux meanwhile, by the early seventies, had published seven books but was still struggling financially. He has a low paying job teaching in Singapore and must endure the humiliation of being ordered to cut his hair by his department head.<br />Theroux does not become financially secure until he strays away from \\"pure\\" writing and writes the first of his travel books. Theroux's fame eventually equals and perhaps surpasses Naipaul. His subsequent travel books are enormously successful. Several of his novels are adapted for motion pictures while Naipaul books are always critically admired but poor selling. Near the end Theroux makes the point that he find many of Naipaul's later works dull and uninteresting; he says that he must skim to get through them. Theroux feels that some of these later works would never have been published had an unknown written them. If you're like me and have read lesser works of famous authors and felt exactly the same way; it's nice to see this sentiment in print. <br />There are interesting comments on rare and signed books. He describes Naipaul's rage at having to sign copies of his books for others to sell at a huge mark-up. Therouxsees books that he had inscribed and presented to Naipaul and his first wife decades earlier in a rare book dealer's catalogue. This sets in motions the events that cause their friendship to come apart. Meanwhile, Theroux himself collects signed books; he asks his friend to sign his collection of Naipaul's work one day during a visit at his London home. Naipaul refuses. Theroux buys Naipaul's privately printed signed limited edition \\"Congo Diary\\" and is upset that his friend did not think to give him one. <br />There is an interesting passage describing Theroux's participation in the 1979 Booker prize panel, the year when A Bend in the River was considered. The other judges want to award the prize to Naipaul but Theroux vetoes this, saying he didn't like sex scenes or the ending. He suggests an alternative but one of the other judges rejects this, saying \\"over my dead body.\\" Theroux shows that the awarding of book prizes is mainly a popularity contest; who one's friends are matters much more than writing quality. Theroux discusses the politics involved in awarding the Nobel Prize for literature and (wrongly) concludes that fellow Trinidadian Derek Walcott's award would forever preclude Naipaul.<br />Theroux also describes the annoyance Naipaul feels when doing book tours. Naipaul savages berates a publicist in Portland, he is upset that she has described Portland as a \\"small town,\\" screaming at her that he does not visit small towns. This fit of self important megalomania is a rare look at the unselfconscious inner dialogue of authors, the rage these pampered \\"artistes\\" feel when they must condescend to come face to face with their adoring public. <br />The discussion of Theroux's harsh criticism of Naipaul has overshadowed what is great and unique about this book. It gives a rare look at the lonely world of writers. He gives a glimpse of their day-to-day struggles and the tortuous path to becoming a published writer earning a living at writing. This struggle tendsto make them insane. Their difficult life may be one factor in why so many talented writers are driven to mental illness and even suicide.	2002-02-17
US	42513672	R1OWFYAT33LF21	0679742301	863579586	Ripley Under Ground	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Poor follow-up to The Talented Mr. Ripley	This book was a disappointment to me after having enjoyed both the book and movie of The Talented Mr. Ripley. Ripley is now a married wealthy art collector living in suburb of Paris. He has a fine home and a live-in housekeeper. It's the late sixties. He's involved in an art-forgery ring. A suspicious buyer is ready to give away the secret. Ripley lures this man, a rich American businessman to his house and kills him in his basement. He disposes of the body and the police investigation begins.<br />The story is poorly written with many unbelievable scenes. Bernard Tufts, the artist who has actually painted the forgeries, tries to kill Ripley after finding out about it and helping to dispose of the body. Tufts knocks Ripley unconscious and buries him face down in a shallow grave in the woods behind his home. He awakes buried alive and manages to dig himself out. Ripley goes about his business for the rest of the day as if nothing has happened, taking care to put the sweater he was buried in into the laundry hamper for washing. Ripley pointlessly travels all over Greece looking for Bernard. He returns to his house and then travels to Austria where he finds Bernard. Bernard sees Ripley and thinks he is a ghost. He flees from him and throws himself off a cliff in fear. Ripley burns Bernard's body at the foot of the cliff and takes an assortment of bones and charred flesh back home with him in his suitcase. He shows these bones to the detective investigating the disappearance of the rich man and seemingly convinces him that Bernard was the killer.<br />It's all very contrived and unconvincing. The travel book feel of some of the scenes is distracting and annoying. In The Talented Mr. Ripley the lovingly detailed descriptions of Rome and Naples and the French Riviera seemed appropriate. Here the author prattles on with, among other things, a pointless multi-page description of the Mozart museum in Salzburg that has absolutely nothing to do with the story. All in all unsatisfying and poorly done.	2002-02-15
US	42513672	R32Z97AGB83YMX	0679437223	458864358	Catch-22 (Everyman's Library)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	War is Hell; War is Fun	This long novel took me awhile to finish but it was worth the effort. I gave up early on and came back to it after reading one good review after another. The first few hundred pages can be confusing and even dull. Heller's disjointed out-of order story telling technique is very hard to come to grips with. There are some entertaining passages even at the beginning but you have to slog through many dimwitted puns. There are some scenes that are quite funny. The best, in my mind, is a scene near the end, where Yossarian is offered the chance to go home by the Colonels that have been tormenting him. There's only one catch, he has to agree to like them, to be their pal, and say good things about them. This is unacceptable and he chooses instead to run away. Skip the puerile chapter titled \\"Major Major Major Major.\\" The one joke of this insult to the reader's intelligence is the character's name: Major Major Major and the rank he is automatically promoted to on joining the army.<br />It gets better after the slow start and story begins to come together once you get halfway through. Yossarian, or Yo-Yo to his friends, is the unhappy and psychotic bombardier who is the central character of this non-story. He's afraid of dying and is upset that his superiors have repeatedly raised the number of combat missions he must fly before he can go home. His friends are killed while incompetent, evil people are promoted and prosper. The black-marketeers Ex-PFC Wintergreen and especially Milo Minderbinder get rich. He's haunted by the memory of a fellow flyer (Snowden) dying in his arms over Avignon. <br />Whether you think this novel is a good or not, it exists and many people who have never read the book are familiar with the title phrase. Heller uses Yossarian's situation to makes some points about the absurdity of war and, perhaps, of modern life in a Capitalist society. He points out that you are \\"free\\" just as long as you never actually want to use any of your freedom. It's interesting to see a depiction of American soldiers during WWII who have absolutely no patriotic or heroic feelings but are only concerned with saving their skin or perhaps profiting from the situation they are in. Mailer, in The Naked and the Dead, and other authors have expressed these sentiments better. This take on war and American society came to be the norm in the aftermath of the Vietnam War but it probably seemed very subversive when this book came out in 1961.	2002-02-15
US	42513672	R144ZM7KYDTIQG	0385324081	465508246	The Thin Red Line: A Novel	Books	5	24	30	N	N	War is Hell; War is Fun	The Thin Red Line is a fast paced exciting novel of combat on Guadalcanal. Forget all that you know about the dull introspective movie of the same name, the book is nothing like the movie.<br />The novel details the adventures of C Company as they arrive on transports and engage in two battles. At the outset of the action Guadalcanal has already been invaded and the men of C Company are part of a force that will mop up remaining Japanese forces on the island. There is a cast of dozens of characters that is too long to detail here. Most are well-formed individuals. Jones takes us into the thoughts of each man. We read each mans inner dialogue as he is forced into life or death combat situations. All are scared, some rise to the occasion, some find they enjoy killing, some go mad and many are killed or wounded. Just like real life. They do not spend their time contemplating lizards and jungle foliage as is in the movie.<br />The characters go through a transition from scared untested troops to battle hardened veterans all in the course of a two-day battle for a hill called the Dancing Elephant. Jones describes how they acquire the \\"thousand yard stare\\" along with a mental numbness that inures them from horrors of battle. <br />After the first battle the men are given a week off which they spend getting drunk. Their too-cautious Captain Stein in relieved of command and his exec, First Lieutenant Band takes over. Band is eager to prove himself and volunteers his company to lead the next assault, the battle of the Great Boiled Shrimp.<BR>This battle is a success and the Japanese are completely defeated. Unfortunately Band is judged to be too reckless by his superiors and he too is relieved.<br />With these two battles behind them, a new company commander is appointed. Captain Bosche is a stranger to the men, having been transferred from another division. Many of the veterans are promoted to fill ranks thinned out by casualties. Many others find that they can talk the army doctors into transferring them away for medical care, even though some aren't very sick or disabled. The novel ends with C Company climbing into another transport to be taken to fight for another island.<br />Unlike many other war novels, The Thin Red Line does not have a single overarching message. In this book, war is hell but it is also fun. Killing is bad but it also exhilarating. Heroism is a complex issue here. No man is purely heroic but many do behave heroically. Some do so because they don't want to be thought cowards by their buddies, others because they are hungry for glory, medals and promotions. One soldier, \\"Big Un,\\" volunteers for a dangerous mission because he's upset that the Japanese are killing captured Americans. During that mission he himself kills several Japanese who are trying to surrender, screaming at them that this will teach them not kill captured Americans.<br />There are a few stylistic issues that I found annoying. Jones gives every man a monosyllabic name. He insists on unnaturally referring to the company as C-for-Charlie every time he mentions it. Other companies, such a B-for-Baker, are named similarly. Natural speech would of course abbreviate familiar names. There are other similar stylistics excesses. An officer is referred to a \\"pickle nosed, mean and mean-looking\\" every time he appears. Jones probably thought he was quite the artiste in doing this but I found it annoying and distracting<br />These minor points aside, The Thin Red Line is enjoyable, exciting and well worth reading.	2002-01-25
US	42513672	RDAXF2R3ZN1FI	0312243995	155058556	Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Do Yourself a Favor and Buy This Book	This book is the companion to the BBC series which visited many of the places Hemingway wrote about and lived. This television series was done to commemorate Hemingway's 100th birthday. I had been uninterested in Hemingway prior to reading this book. Palin's engaging style changed that for me. Palin has a passion for Hemingway that is infectious. I was prompted to read The Sun Also Rises, The Dangerous Summer and Death in the Afternoon by Palin's telling of Hemingway's passion for bullfighting. I also visited Pamplona for the 2000 San Fermin festival, one year after the one described in the book. <br />This book would be an excellent travel narrative even without the Hemingway connection. There are, besides the chapter about bullfighting and Pamplona, entertaining accounts of duck hunting near Venice, Key West nightlife, sportfishing in Havana, and taxidermy in Idaho. Palin's writing style is like having an old friend telling you an interesting story. The photography is excellent as well. Highly recommended.	2002-01-22
US	42513672	R38WZOFAFGYAWF	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Naipaul�s other Masterpiece	Published in 1979, A Bend in the River tells the story of an unnamed town in an unnamed African country. The town is situated on a bend in the river upon which all trade and travelers must pass. Salim is a Muslim of Indian descent who has come to this town in the center of Africa to take over a business abandoned by a family friend. <br />Salim comes from a family of Indian Muslim traders that have lived and prospered on Africa's east coast for centuries. He is not an African despite his family's many generations of living in Africa. He makes a dangerous journey by car from the coast inland negotiating his way past rutted roads and corrupt border officials and thieving soldiers. He reaches the town and slowly builds up his business, selling cheap imported goods to the natives. The town has just come through a bloody period of civil war with much of the town destroyed. Slowly, over years, peace returns. Salim and the town prosper. It's all just a temporary lull between civil wars as the cycle of violence begins again tearing Salim's tranquil existence apart. <br />Naipaul has a very pessimistic view about Africa. European-imposed modernity and the trappings of civilization are illusory and ephemeral. All that is real is the jungle and the untamed people. The novel is written in matter-of-fact understated style that is quite true to life. The intermittent civil wars and bloody violence are the real normal state of society. Salim is not a classic literary hero, he's just trying to survive and has no long range goals or lofty motivation. He is buffeted by the new civil war that finally touches the town after building up in the background. At the end his business is confiscated. His former employee, the lazy and worthless \\"Citoyen Theotime,\\" is appointed the new owner of the business. Theotime is an illiterate native who spends his workday looking at comic books. Salim is reduced to chauffeuring Theotime around in his own car. Everything he has worked for more than a decade is lost. In the end he's arrested on smuggling charges and is lucky to escape with his life	2002-01-22
US	42513672	R2I61ZJ7GWKNNC	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Hello to Alcoholism	I will not attempt a serious review of this novel. It is too revered a classic for me to have anything to add to the volumes that have already been written. I will instead concentrate on a few points that came to mind when re-reading this for the first time in over twenty years.<br />A Farewell to Arms is regarded as the definitive American novel of WWI. Frederic Henry is an American ambulance driver serving the Italians. He falls in love with British nurse Catherine Barkley. Henry is wounded. He returns to the front after recovering and takes part in the disastrous Italian retreat. Henry is mistaken for an Austrian office in Italian uniform and barely escapes a summary execution. He deserts and runs away to Switzerland with Catherine where she dies in childbirth.<br />Taken as a simple adventure/love story the novel is entertaining and highly readable. Some of the dialogue between the lovers is awkward but the action scenes are well written and believable. The narrator's voice is that of a modern man. Apart from such anachronisms as horse-drawn carriages, capes and puttees the story could have been set in the present day. It is this modern feel that distinguishes Hemingway from his contemporaries. To me Faulkner and Fitzgerald are dated and unreadable by comparison.<br />It is interesting to note that the protagonist spends much of his waking hours consuming alcohol. At one point he becomes jaundiced as the result of alcohol induced liver damage. This is pathological alcoholism rather than recreational overindulgence. Hemingway presents this as a normal and healthy facet of our hero's character. This is quite a departure from what our modern sensibility expects. If written today at least half of the text would deal with touchy-feely aspects of the horrors of alcoholism. Our hero's inner dialogue would be full of the tortures of alcohol addiction. Instead, Hemingway regards this as no big deal.<br />Some aspects of the story did not ring true. Ambulance drivers areunlikely to be officers. I believe Hemingway made Henry an officer because that would allow him to have a more exciting social life than a mere enlisted man. In real life Hemingway was not an officer and the nurse he fell in love with did not have sex with him in his hospital bed. This aspect of the story may be a heartfelt putting to paper of the authors fantasy life. Similarly, Catherine Barkley's death at the end of the novel may be his way of getting back at his real-life sweetheart's rejection of him. Agnes von Kurowsky spurned his marriage proposal; Hemingway kills off her fictional counterpart in retaliation.<br />These minor points aside, A Farewell to Arms is deservedly regarded as a classic. It makes the point that war is hell subtly yet convincingly. Hemingway doesn't need to philosophize endlessly about abstract concepts to get the reader to agree. Henry manages to rejoin the Italian forces retreating from the Germans. Without warning he pulled from a mass of filthy dispirited soldiers marching away from the front. He is singled out for summary execution along with some other hapless officers who have been separated from their men. The smug \\"battle police\\" remorselessly interrogate and execute these men one after another with the same care and concern a meter maid would give in ticketing an expired parking meter. In just a few pages Henry goes from dedicated fighter for the cause to deserter doing all he can to stay alive.  The reader makes this transition with him in a way that illustrates the pointlessness of war better than thousands of pages of text.	2002-01-18
US	42513672	RKO77P2ZUACOB	067976397X	659658614	Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	War and Peace in Cephalonia	Louis DeBernieres' novel is set on the quiet Greek Island of Cephalonia. The novel begins just before the onset of WWII and ends in the present day (1993 actually). The island and its people are described in loving detail. The author breathes life into characters of Dr. Iannis, Pelagia, and Carlo such that the reader thinks of them as real people. Other characters are not as well defined and some are completely unbelievable. Captain Corelli himself seems too good to be true during wartime but his later behavior is inexplicable and inconsistent with what the reader expects from him. Many other reviewers have commented that the last few chapters, which deal with a forty-year period after the war, seem hollow and false compared to the richly detailed wartime chapters. I think the novel would have been more satisfying if it had simply ended with Corelli's departure from the island or with his return immediately after the war. <br />I usually don't like florid language as used in this novel. As a rule I think good writing should be concise, clear and to the point. DeBernieres strays from this rule frequently but it usually comes across as appropriate or at least acceptable. <br />The story of the Italian - German fighting on Cephalonia was previously told in The White Flag (BANDIERA BIANCA A CEFALONIA) an Italian novel published in 1963. DeBernieres acknowledges this book as a source for his. He has stated in interviews that the plot device of the mandolin was added because he plays that instrument.<BR>There has been criticism of DeBernieres harsh depiction of Greek communists. A revised edition omitting these scenes of violence and treachery was written to placate these critics. This was a mistake, if the communists don't like the way they are portrayed they need not read the book.<br />I did not read this book but instead listened to the 18 hour unabridged audio cassette version narrated by Stephen Lang. Lang's narration is superb, he does not merely read but acts outthe book and gives each character a different voice and personality. Listening to this made three weeks of commuting a very pleasant experience. <br />I came to this novel without having seen the movie version. That movie was in and out of theaters so fast that I missed it. I rate the novel only 4 out 5 stars only because of the poorly conceived conclusion and will here present my own abbreviated final chapter:<br />Pelagia looks up from the kitchen table where she is preparing escargot a la Bourguignonne. <BR>She is astonished to see Antonio in the doorway looking handsome and dashing as ever. It has been three years since he escaped the island. She was sure there was no way he could have survived the open boat ride to Sicily over hundreds miles of open sea. Antonio has not only survived but has completely recovered from his grievous wounds. He sweeps Pelagia into his arms and smothers her in kisses. He stoops down with Pelagia in his arms so that she can grab Antonia (his mandolin) from where it is propped up in the corner of the kitchen. Antonio carries her into the sunset to live happily ever after as the snails slowly climb out of their bowl.	2002-01-11
US	42513672	R3JEQGXOP1GZPH	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	4	5	13	N	N	A very good but flawed classic	First of all, I recognize that this is a classic novel by one of the most highly regarded writers of the twentieth century. Hemingway was very good; sycophants made him sublime. To criticize this work and not rhapsodize over its poetic beauty and its insightful symbolism would seem to be almost in bad taste. But I will do so anyway. <br />Overall I would have to say that the story is good but not great: Robert Jordan is an American fighting for the communists in the Spanish civil war. He is an instructor in Spanish at a Montana college who has taken a sabbatical  to secretly come to Spain. He wants to fight to liberate the workingman. Jordan is sent by his Russian controller to join  a band of guerrillas behind Fascist lines. His mission is to blow up a bridge; this is timed to precisely coincide with a Republican (communist) offensive. Anselmo, an old man who is the most reliable guerilla, takes him to the band of rebels. The band is led by Pablo, an uncouth peasant who has gone from fervent murderous radical to a man who only wants to survive. Pilar, Pablo's woman, is the unifying force in Pablo's band. There are assorted other rebels and Maria, a refugee who has been raped by the fascists. Maria and Robert Jordan fall in love immediately and are soon fornicating like rabbits. The bridge is attacked and destroyed but this leads to the death of Anselmo and to Robert Jordan being mortally wounded. He orders Maria to go on without him and he bids her to escape and enjoy life; thereby he will live through her.  <br />The book does give a good picture of the issues of the Spanish civil war. The fascists are portrayed as decent people backed by Nazis and Italian fascists. The Republicans are controlled by Russians, as are puppets on a string. Hemingway makes a point to say that the top Republicans all speak Russian, having been trained as revolutionaries in the Soviet Union. The individual peasants Jordan fights with  are mostly portrayed as decent people with a few savages thrown in for good measure.<br />I had several problems with the book. I understand that Hemingway uses the archaic thee and thou to indicate that the dialogue is being spoken in Spanish. He omits this when Jordan is speaking in English or thinking to himself. This takes some getting used to but is tolerable. It is the awkward translation of Spanish obscene phrases that is done in a silly and annoying way. The phrase \\"I obscenity in the milk of your father\\" appears dozens of times.  No one speaks this way. It is patently unnatural and just about ruined the book for me. I understand that this is a literal translation of the Spanish oath \\"me cago en la leche...\\" I understand and don't care. It would have been better to leave the obscenity implied but unsaid without resorting to this awkward device. <br />There is a painfully awkward page where Robert Jordan discovers that Pablo has stolen his detonators. On page 368 he says  \\"Oh muck my grandfather and muck this whole treacherous mucking country and every mucking Spaniard in it on either side and to hell forever\\" and so forth ( in lieu of the word that is an acronym for \\"for unlawful carnal knowledge\\") about two dozen times. I understand that in 1940 that word could not appear in print but did it have to be replaced by something so witless. Funny how that word still can't appear in Amazon.com book reviews in 2002.<br />There is another especially awkward scene that sticks in my mind. Hemingway describes Robert Jordan's feelings at having reached orgasm with Maria on page 379: \\"Oh now, now, now, the only now, and above all now  and there is no other now but thou now and now is thy prophet. Now and forever now. Come now, now, for there is no now but now. Yes, now. \\" and so on for half a page. Give me a break!<br />There is also the problem of some of the poorly drawn and unbelievable characters. Robert Jordan is too perfect to be true (is he Jesus in disguise?). He goes from a mild mannered rural college instructorto a stone killer and demolitions expert in a matter of months. He doesn't have any personal stake in the Spanish conflict but quickly becomes a cool yet eager killer in the service of the Soviet side. His inner dialogue tells us that this is because he has always wanted to do something for downtrodden workers of the world. It is also in part to prove that he is as much a man as his (U.S.) Civil war hero grandfather. The relationship with Maria is unbelievable to the point of being absurd. Jordan is a thirty-something who has never been in love. He and Maria, who is 19,  fall in love at first sight. They immediately decide to have sex ; they plan to get married and live together happily ever after. He is fully aware that he has been handed a suicide mission and is completely unconcerned. How did he live for this long if his own safety is of no interest to him?<br />Much has been made of the fact that this book illustrated the concepts in the Donne poem No Man is an Iland. Well then why do we need nearly five hundred pages of this book when that poem says it so well in a few lines.	2002-01-11
US	42513672	R2DFG6R1XXA7Z9	0871137275	622296251	Italian Days	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Italian travel narrative written from a woman's perspective	Italian Days is one of best travel narratives about Italy that I have read. The anecdotes are interesting and ring true. Her impressions of the famous places she has visited were very similar to my own. Venice, Florence, Rome, the Vatican, Naples and Capri are lovingly described. Capri really is the most beautiful place on Earth. <br />Harrison writes with a woman's voice that is spontaneous and uninhibited. Unfortunately this sometimes comes across as fatuous. Women are defined by how attractive they are. An octogenarian aristocrat is described as looking to be decades younger. The old lady then goes on to tell a younger women how important it is make a good marriage with a wealthy man. A pretty young friend picks up a stranger she meets on a bridge in Venice; the author is abandoned while her friend goes off for a bout of casual sex. Harrison's attractive young daughter is accosted by men in the streets of Naples. Harrison herself is quite proud that she is still attractive to men at her age (around forty). The men she encounters are clichés. The vast majority are childish sex-crazed brutes with a few lovable little old men thrown in for variety. I don't regard this point of view as a fault but rather a heartfelt putting to paper of the author's own inner dialogue.<br />Several reviews have commented that the book is poorly edited. This is true. This is not a novel. The book is more a series of essays that all have in common being about places in Italy. The chapters mostly do not flow from one to another. Travel narratives are a curious class of writing in that they need not have a storyline. They assume more knowledge in the reader than would a guidebook. The travel books of Paul Theroux are similarly choppy.<br />This book had an excerpt in Travelers' Tales Italy which is also an excellent source for many more books about Italy.	2002-01-10
US	42513672	R1K4X07EECEB91	0785787283	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Too good to be dismissed as science fiction	I became aware of this book after seeing the movie. The movie was an entertaining action movie with a comic-book feel. The book is a serious presentation of an alternate political philosophy wrapped in a man versus bug science fiction fantasy.<br />Heinlein's idea for a better society based on military service and responsibility makes a lot of sense. Many thinking people have come to the conclusion that pure democracy is flawed. There are simply too many stupid people whose vote can be influenced by demagogues or bought by generous social welfare programs to make democracy viable in the long run. Universal suffrage to all that reach the age of majority has been proven not to work. It is a perverse notion that an educated taxpayer that contributes to society has the same vote as a delusional homeless drug addict.<br />Heinlein proposes a solution to the problem of democracy. In his brave new world political power rests with veterans. Veterans have united throughout the world and seized power in reaction to licentious anarchy. Citizenship and the right to vote and hold public office can only be attained after military service. Citizenship is a reward, which only comes after service to the nation. This is not a new idea. The Romans structured their society similarly.  Heinlein proposes that society should be ordered as a military meritocracy. Qualified people rise from the bottom to leadership positions by proving themselves qualified to their senior officers. Some have labeled this an endorsement of fascism. It may make more sense to think about the ideas presented rather than to apply a hateful label that precludes thought.  Heinlein envisions a strictly ordered society where criminals are punished swiftly and decisively. A rapist-murderer is arrested in the morning, tried at noon and is executed in the evening of the same day. The execution is public to serve as warning to others who are criminally inclined. A father and his delinquent son are flogged together in the public square as shared punishment for the son's juvenile pranks<br />Like Atlas Shrugged, this is a rare book combining political manifesto with a vision of a future world. Heinlein's ideas are the antithesis of that which a public brainwashed by a depraved popular culture considers as right and normal. In all it makes for a thought provoking work which will plant ideas in your mind that persist long after you've forgotten other books.the public square as shared punishment for the son's juvenile pranks <br />Like Atlas Shrugged, this is a rare book combining political manifesto with a vision of a future world. Heinlein's ideas are the antithesis of that which a public brainwashed by a depraved popular culture considers as right and normal. In all it makes for a thought provoking work which will plant ideas in your mind that persist long after you've forgotten other books.	2002-01-08
US	42513672	RV7SYX85E3MKX	0385312083	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five: Or The Children's Crusade, A Duty Dance With Death (25th Anniversary) (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	1	25	84	N	N	A Questionable Classic	I have been aware of this book since seeing the movie for the first time over twenty-five years ago. I finally got around to reading it recently. It is appalling that this is considered a classic and that it is studied as an example of American literature.<br />Slaughterhouse five deals with Billy Pilgrim, a WWII veteran who is \\"unstuck in time\\" and jumps back and forth from his experience as prisoner of war in WWII Dresden to mundane suburban concerns as a wealthy optometrist to life as a zoo exhibit on the planet Tralfalmadore. <br />Being \\"unstuck in time\\" could be a metaphor for mental illness but Vonnegut's telling of it makes me feel otherwise. He actually means for the reader to believe in this infantile nonsense. <br />The novel is written in a childish absurdist style that becomes wearisome very quickly. This short novel of 187 pages has little to say: War is bad, killing is bad. Duh. There is the idiotic repetition of the phrase \\"and so it goes\\" every time death is mentioned. Even the death of bacteria or a stale glass of water. <br />Vonnegut also implies that he did not want to write about this subject but has somehow been forced. The opening chapter details how he had not dwelt on the memories of his wartime experiences for decades and was finally forced to reflect on them in writing this book. This unwillingness shows. I estimate that less than a quarter of the novel actually deals with the events he witnessed in WWII. If Vonnegut had been able to write a normal wartime memoir that would have been a much more interesting book. Instead we have this puerile fantasy that, perversely, is treated as great literature.<br />I am especially amazed that this book is studied in English courses across America. Message to students: Question the judgment of any teacher who presents this as an example of anything other than worthless ...that should have never been published.	2002-01-07
US	42513672	R478PPNP1PNXT	044018424X	689073601	Swag	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Elmore Leonard's Masterpiece, IMHO	I read this many years ago in the Dutch Treat omnibus edition and re-read it recently. It tells the story of two small time Detroit criminals, Ernest Stickley and Frank Ryan, who embark on a spree of armed robberies. They make a partnership in which they agree to follow &quot;Ryan's Rules&quot; (which has been an alternate title for this novel). They soon break these rules and come to have several misadventures involving botched armed robberies (their own and others they are victims of) double-crosses and department store holdups gone wrong. The action follows non-stop much like a violent video game. There is Leonard's characteristic wry humour: An incompetent stick-up man is relieved of the proceeds of his robbery. He's locked in a storage room with his victims, who proceed to beat him unconscious. Stick and Frank walk away with the money and are in turn robbed in a parking lot. Stick and Frank rob a liquor store where the stubborn senior citizen behind the cash register is willing to die and allow his equally elderly wife to be raped and murdered rather than hand over the hidden money. All this and more while never going over the top and becoming unbelievable. It's possible to empathize with Stickley's predicament. He's basically a good man who does bad things. It is inexplicable to me that this book has not been made into a movie while many lesser Leonard novels have. The Stickley character reappears in the novel Stick, in which it is revealed that Ryan died in prison. That novel, Stick, was made into the 1985 Burt Reynolds movie.	2002-01-04
US	42513672	R1VPUD2MTKUVF1	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Truth is more entertaining than fiction	I read this book after hearing about the upcoming movie. All reviews I've seen have uniformly raved about this review and I will too. The book is a minute by minute account of raid into inner city Mogadishu, Somalia in 1993. Media reports at the time of the events in the book had left me with the impression that this episode was a disgraceful failure, what with American soldiers being dragged dead though the streets. I had at first been uninterested in this topic because of the aura of failure around the Somalia debacle. This book proves that that was not true. The men involved behaved heroically under unbelievably harrowing circumstances. The author highlights dozens of individual acts of heroism that in total make me admire and respect the men that fought and died there that day. The motives of the officers and politicians who ordered the raid at the Mogadishu apartment building are much more suspect. While Bowden's sympathies are completely with the men on the ground, he has at best neutral opinions of their leaders. Bowden even condones the shooting of hostile women and children as necessary and writes his account of these acts in such a way that the reader agrees. I read this book straight through over two days and a sleepless night; it was that good.	2001-12-29
US	42513672	RB1ZAMHCWSVX4	0679444580	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Naipaul's Masterpiece	This book is deservedly regarded as the new Nobel laureate's masterpiece. It is tells the life story of Mr. Mohun Biswas, a  Hindu born in rural Trinidad. Mr. Biswas (and Naipaul ironically refers to him this way even when describing his infancy) is a poor Brahmin struggling to make something of his life. His father dies while he is still a boy and this causes him to exist as a poor relation held in low esteem first living with his mother on the stingy charity of his aunt and uncle and then with his wife's family, who treat him with similar contumely. Along the way Mr. Biswas has several children, including Anand who is the narrator of the story. Anand is, of course, Naipaul and Mr. Biswas is the author's father. On first reading I had believed that the book was much more of an autobiography than it really is. Naipaul has changed many of the names and places, perhaps to avoid giving offense to chararacters still living at the time the novel was first published (1958). Naipaul's brother Shiva, who was an accomplished author in his own right and who died prematurely in 1985, is not described at all. The ironic style gives the book a serio-comic feel that is quite true to life. The title's characters makes numerous failed attempts to at last have a house of his own, to get back to what he lost when his father died those many years ago. Every endeavor to make something of himself goes awry. His first job in a rum-shop ends when he is beaten and falsely accused of theft. His next job as a pundit's apprentice ends when he accidentally throws feces on to a sacred tree. There follow several other jobs, all of which eventually go wrong. Mr. Biswas is a failure at everything he does until the day he leaves his mother-in-law's house for the big city, Port of Spain. It is there that he first becomes a modest success as writer for the one of the island's major newspapers. My description does not do the book justice. The story itself is perhaps not very interesting at face value.It would seem at first that there is little in this book for a reader who is not a Hindu Trinidadian. That is not at all the case. It is the writer's gentle and loving telling of Mr. Biswas' life story interspersed with ironic and sarcastic comments resonating with the reader's own experiences of love-hate realtionships with his own family that make this a masterpiece.	2001-12-29
US	42513672	R2SUCFHQB9TJ3K	0435986465	153021170	Mystic Masseur (Caribbean Writers Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Early VS Naipaul	This short novel is interesting mainly because it is the first by the author. No one could call this a masterpiece on the level of A House for Mr. Biswas or A Bend in the River but it makes for an interesting read nonetheless. This is the story of Ganesh a masseur, mystic and faith healer in rural Trinidad. Ganesh, a Hindu Indian, makes an improbable rise to political power and eventual knighthood. This provides a opportunity for Naipaul to playfully describe colorful characters and village life among Hindus tranplanted to Trinidad. Naipaul's trademark ironic style is more over-the-top here than as seen in later works. The quirky characters are lovable but not completely believable. This is not to say that the book is bad but that it would be of much less interest were it not for the fact that it is the new Nobel laureate's first novel-length work. Paul Theroux makes a reference to The Mystic Masseur in his memoir, Sir Vidia's Shadow. He suggests that Naipaul, by turning his back on Theroux and their decades-long friendship, has become a pompous self-important figure, much like Ganesh at the conclusion of The Mystic Masseur. A movie has been made of this novel and is as yet unreleased.	2001-12-29
US	42513672	RK3Z3UL5GR3WH	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb grim account  of life of Soviet political prisoners.	This short novel is much more readable than many of Solzhenitsyns other works. I have read all three volumes of Gulag as well as The First Circle; this is by far the most approachable. Gulag is, of course, a work of non-fiction with a scattered encyclopedic style. The First Circle is like many other Russian novels with a huge cast of characters whose lives intertwine in ways that are difficult to keep straight. One Day in the Life, on the other hand, is short and to the point. The unrelenting hopelessness of the prisoner's lives and the bestial conditions they try to survive are described in a matter of fact way. Life for Ivan Denisovich and his fellow prisoners consists of a struggle to survive. Nearly every minute of their waking hours are spent occupied in getting enough food to keep from starving and with staying warm enough to keep from freezing while working as slave labour from dawn to dusk. All the while they must take care to avoid the random punishments and brutalities of prison life. It is as if this hopeless situation is all that exists in the world. Solzhenitsyn imples that there is no hope for improvement in the future. The prisoners have lost their faith in better days to come; they can't even look forward to the end of their terms. Prison sentences are frequently arbitrarily extended. Those who are released are more often than not condemned to exile in Siberia and cannot return to their homes. This makes for a reality much bleaker than the fictional horrors depicted in such novels as Nineteen Eighty Four.	2001-12-28
US	42513672	R2XGNKUQQC8VQ8	0451527097	761117464	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb grim account  of life of Soviet political prisoners.	This short novel is much more readable than many of Solzhenitsyns other works. I have read all three volumes of Gulag as well as The First Circle; this is by far the most approachable. Gulag is, of course, a work of non-fiction with a scattered encyclopedic style. The First Circle is like many other Russian novels with a huge cast of characters whose lives intertwine in ways that are difficult to keep straight. One Day in the Life, on the other hand, is short and to the point. The unrelenting hopelessness of the prisoner's lives and the bestial conditions they try to survive are described in a matter of fact way. Life for Ivan Denisovich and his fellow prisoners consists of a struggle to survive. Nearly every minute of their waking hours are spent occupied in getting enough food to keep from starving and with staying warm enough to keep from freezing while working as slave labour from dawn to dusk. All the while they must take care to avoid the random punishments and brutalities of prison life. It is as if this hopeless situation is all that exists in the world. Solzhenitsyn imples that there is no hope for improvement in the future. The prisoners have lost their faith in better days to come; they can't even look forward to the end of their terms. Prison sentences are frequently arbitrarily extended. Those who are released are more often than not condemned to exile in Siberia and cannot return to their homes. This makes for a reality much bleaker than the fictional horrors depicted in such novels as Nineteen Eighty Four.	2001-12-28
US	42513672	R2QTXHWO9KZXY9	0684818981	378927219	To Have and Have Not	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very good Hemingway novel	I read this because I liked the Bogart movie. The movie used the very beginning of the book then goes on to follow a completely different story line. The book is darker and more violent than the &quot;feel-good&quot; themed movie. The novel centers around Harry Morgan, a charter boat captain who does some bad things to make ends meet in 1930's Cuba and Key West. It appears that the book may have started out as a short story that was fleshed out into a novel-length work. The copyright page indicates publication in a magazine in 1934, three years before the book's publication date. This may explain the confusing change in narrators that other reviewers have mentioned. It also seems to me that the have versus have-not theme has been tacked on to contrast the lives of rich holiday-makers in Key West to the lives of  struggling Key West natives. The parts dealing with the wealthy aren't particulary interesting or believable. I suspect they were added to give a simple action story more social consciousness. This fault is more than made up for by the scenes with Harry Morgan. He is a tough man of action who wont stop at killing if necessary. It makes for an exciting read; I read it through in one night. I must diasagree with those critics that feel this novel is one of Hemingway's worst.	2001-12-23
US	42513672	R1XGUD9G42U44D	0679428011	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Everyman's Library)	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Heart of DarkneZZZZzzzz	This slender novel of 110 pages was a chore to finish. I was able to get through it by force of will. This is one of those over-rated classics that were declared a classic a long time ago and now are blindly accepted as such. More than that, I see that many try to affirm it's alleged greatness by saying &quot;me too&quot; in clever ways. The story of a seaman who goes to Africa to command a riverboat deep in the jungle and encounters some horrors along the way is not particularly horrific or insightful. Many have marveled at Conrad's late-learned command of the English language. In fact his writing is unnecesarily dense. It is  overloaded with adjectives and non-sequiturs that cloud his meaning and stray from the topic at hand. The best writing is clever, clear and to the point; it is not a string of adjectives and adverbs added to poorly conceived or uninteresting thoughts. The horrors described: an attack by natives and the sight of staked heads arranged in front of Kurtz's hut against a backdrop of squalid living conditions left me unimpressed. Europeans resorted to greater savageries against other races and among themselves both before and after the events in this novel. Unlike the many who were forced to read this in school, I decided to read it after twenty years of hearing that it was the inspiration for the Coppolla movie. That movie is one of the many examples of a good movie made from a flawed book.	2001-12-22
US	42513672	R3VQBMY1OMPG7Q	0684830515	781452863	The Sun Also Rises (Scribner Classics)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not bad Hemingway	I read this after reading Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure. Unlike many others, I was not forced to read this in school. I later visited Pamplona during the San Fermin festival. The description of Pamplona is good if you remember that nearly 80 years have passed since it was written. According to Palin, this book by Hemingway is solely responsible for the international renown of the feria at Pamplona even though there are similar events in other Spanish towns. The story centers around an expatriate American writer living in Paris and his circle of friends. They travel to Pamplona to attend the festival. I found the novel to be dull. I was able to read it through but I don't consider it a particularly good book. Unlike people in the real world, the characters in The Sun Also Rises don't seem to have to work for a living. It does provide a good description of  bullfighting and fishing in Spain's Basque region. While the novel's protagonist spends two weeks in the Pamplona area, I was bored after one day. Hemingway fails to describe the drunken mobs (dressed in vomit-stained whites with a splash of red at neck and waist) roaming the streets, sleeping on benches and vomiting into gutters that I saw.	2001-12-22
US	42513672	R1NOY4HUEWIUMD	0553275569	678579754	The Right Stuff	Books	2	2	43	N	N	The Wrong Stuff	I thought I would read this book after seeing a long reference to it in \\"Adventures in the Screenwriting Trade\\" by William Goldman. Goldman describes writing a screenplay of this book which was never used because of factors beyond his control. Goldman, who wrote Marathon Man and The Princess Bride, gives a synopsis of The Right Stuff that made me interested in reading the novel.<br />I had to put the book down after the first chapter. Wolfe's flippant style is grating. After each fatal crash he mockingly repeats his description of the trainees ritualistic behavoir in donning their bridge coats (their formal uniform) to attend the funeral.<br />The writer relates how worried the young pilots wives are, how they live in fear that their men are going to crash and burn. This is an unusual viewpoint to take in writing about heroic figures. It's as if someone sat down to write a book about Caesar or William the Conqueror written from the perspective of their worried wives...	2001-12-18
