US	42520801	R1PSW7ZVYWKOBJ	0060736704	717178025	Bush on the Couch: Inside the Mind of the President	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Bush: Psychoanalyzed	This was an interesting book, a lot of insight into the workings of our president's mind.  It was a little too much ad naseum on Bush than I really care to spend time reading - I'm no fan of the guy, and sometimes I felt like the author is reading too much into things. However the signs, tics, weird facial grimaces and other indications are definitely there for all to see, if people  choose to do so, that suggest abnormal behavior, delusional thinking, a grandiose sense of self, paranoia, among other things. This book is certainly an eye opener, showing Bush as a man of contradictions. He praises one thing, and then turns around to detroy it. I felt Frank did an excellent job in his last chapter, by sharing his suggestions on how the president needs to be treated. As Frank says in his book, there are CEO's who have the same delusional thoughts about themselves and their world and who have their businesses and lives crashing around them before they come to the realization that they need help. The serious problem that we have with Bush as President is that we most definitely cannot afford to have Bush's world collasping around him while serving as President. His world is our very livelihood.	2005-10-05
US	42520801	R3RQY3REDAU884	0743454545	573739483	Vanishing Acts (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	1	4	11	N	N	Too Many Points of Views Over Nothing	This is one of the worst books I have ever read - or I should say skim. It was so bad, I couldn't make myself read it through. Besides of writing a mundane story that could be a plot on the TV show, Without a Trace, Picoult purposely drags the story out ad naseum averting any possible chance to allow the plot to reveal itself naturally.  Picoult also annoyingly divides the chapters into different points of views of the different characters, each with their very own typecasts!  This really doesn't add to the book. It taketh away.    Don't waste time on this one. Watch an episode of Without a trace instead - it's better and shorter.	2005-09-09
US	42520801	RS16HL9Y9YBD	0060598840	983647982	Love Overboard	Books	4	3	5	N	N	On the Cheesy Side but Entertaining and Funny	Janet Evanovich is such a  hilarious writer and can concoct the most hair-brained stories. Her books always without fail put me in a good mood and have me laughing out loud. Love Overboard is a quick read, following the developing romance between transplanted Jersey girl, Stephanie Lowe, and a sea captian, who comes from a long line of pirates, on the high seas off Maine's coast. You can see the makings of the Stephanie Plum character from her later mystery series in this book's central character, Stephanie Lowe.    For a light read, guaranteed laughter, and instant mood booster, I highly recommend this one.	2005-09-03
US	42520801	RN9ZQ3P7LED5O	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Slice of American Pie	I truly enjoyed reading this book. Jeffrey Eugenides is an amazing writer. I only have 3 complaints, however - OK, make it 4.  From the start of the book, Eugenides gives away some of the ending (not all because there are so many things going on in this book) by informing the readers that the book's narrator is going to go through a change by the end of the book. So, I thought - hmmm, interesting and continued to read wanting to find out what happens and what are the feelings, emotions and circumstances that the narrator has during this change. Eugenides doesn't even come close to addressing this until much, much later in the book. Instead we are taken on a journey back through time as Eugenides chronicles the family histories of the narrator's grandparents and then the narrator's parents and then the narrator as a child. This is all very interesting and composes an important part of the story, but as a reader you are strung along for a very long ride. Perhaps, Eugenides shouldn't have even mentioned in the beginning of the book the final outcome for the main character at all. Maybe it would have been better for the readers to have learned about the change while the main character is discovering it. I think the book's weaving of time sequences is too awkward. There is so much material in this book, that I also wonder if it would have been better as 2 books. Towards the end of the boook, the book loses its even pace and central focus. I felt that parts of the ending were too sensationalized. The narrator's story of metamorphism is outstanding as it is and is capable of standing on its own. There is no need to include freakshows and car chases to add anymore high points to the story.  I also felt that the premise, the root of the book's saga and catalyst for the mutated gene's arrival is a bit much and far-fetched. It could have been one degree apart and still worked. The sometimes omniscient point of view in the book can be confusing. If the scope is meant to be broad, entering the minds of different characters, then it wasn't broad enough. We never learn what the main character's brother is thinking. And even if this was included, it would have become an overload. I think Eugenides should have narrowed it down to one character and let the other characters speak for themselves.    Otherwise, I highly recommend reading this book to gain a slice of American pie. Eugenides does an excellent job presenting to his readers many sides of American life: the lives of the immigrants as they arrived looking for a place to call home, the struggles they had and the ethnic discriminations they were faced with, the growth and decline and metamorphoses of cities - particularly of Detroit, the impact the invention of the assembly line had, racial tensions, the qualms the younger generations have with the older ones and vice versa, the seedy underworld,  growing up and trying to define \\"normal,\\" especially when one might not exactly resemble everybody else, the pursuit of people from all different walks of life and ages, trying to find a place for themselves despite circumstances that are not in their control.  He takes his readers from a mountainside in Turkey through the 1920's in America, the Depression, WWII, the Korean War, the 60's and 70's, the Cold War up to after Sept. 11, successfuly illustrating the times as they were. Eugenides shows us that humans are more than the sum of moving body parts and working brains, and that we are indeed a product of the past.     Two thumbs up for the cultural and historical perspectives.	2005-08-11
US	42520801	RAUIOX1E0Q2Y6	0060932384	885582594	Immortality (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic!	I think Milan Kundera purposely wrote Immortality in a such a way that it would be virtually impossible to turn it into a movie, particularly after the making of The Unbearable Lightness of Being into a movie that completely misses the mark and essence of the book. How would one be able to film the author having a conversation with the characters in the book, as Kundera does in Immortality?<br /><br />This book is a gem. Kundera weaves expertly different moments in time and history to explore the theme of immortality. His writing is episodic, which is exactly how life is. A seemingly meaningless event can blossom into something significance, just as how this book blossoms from a simple hand gesture the author observes poolside at a health club in Paris. There are many depths to this book, the ones as observed and written down by the author and the unconscious streams of thought that shape and guide the lives of his characters and are not recorded by the author. Kundera provides many different vantage points of his central characters, which simultaneously examines our own conclusions and interpretations that we may draw from past historical events, most of us merely judging by the \\"look\\" of the material things that have survived the passage of time from our outside point of view. Such things as thoughts, feelings, emotions, etc. are not available to the scrutiny of others, and sometimes not even ourselves. He examines the motivations people have in life and what some of them wish to be remembered for by future generations. The book also explores life's mysterious puzzle on how people who are complete strangers to one another can influence each others's lives.<br /><br />This is a great book. I highly reccommend it. OK - Kundera can be a bit preach-y at times in his storytelling and, especially in this book, he seems to break all the rules taught on writing but it works and his books are literary treasures. He is a true artist.	2005-08-05
US	42520801	RL2NVI420OOB8	0767903153	496507015	My Sister Life: The Story of My Sister's Disappearance	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too Many Onion Layers	Without a doubt, Maria Flook is a very skilled writer. She writes very vividly, deftly uncovering every little aspect of the story, examining each and every possible layer of an onion, or two. This makes for an interesting read, however with so many onion layers being scrutinized, there becomes too many layers and the book becomes repetitive, full of too much information - some of it nonessential to the story, and by the end of the book, Flook loses focus. I find it ironic that Flook quotes her sister as telling her that she talks too much; she should allow others to paint their own picture. Her sister could not have said it any better. While I did enjoy reading this book, I felt as if I was given a very flat, one-sided view of Flook's life. In some parts, I felt that Flook should have allowed the readers to come to their own conclusions, rather than  force feed us with her own interpretations.    This book depicts an ugly underside belly of life. It is not very pretty, but I think that not all writing has to be. The world can be a very ugly place. It's a story about Flook's life, starting at the age of twelve at the time she last saw her older sister step out of the house and disappear. The book starts out great, but by the last page, completely loses focus and the writing style changes, too. I get the feeling that Flook, after having written so much on her story, tires towards the end, and the style becomes much more abbreviated as she attempts to cram everything that she can and ends up essentially listing all the remaining events that happened. Maybe it would have been better to have written two books, instead ... as Mary Karr does with her autobiography in writing her two books, Liar's Club and Cherry. It's an OK read by a writer I believe is talented.	2005-08-05
US	42520801	R3QPMBEK1E2MBX	0679463135	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining	In addition to being peppered with funny plot twists, I found this book to be very honest about relationships in general (making friends, parental relationships, etc. in addition to the romantic ones). The book also accurately depicts Boston and its denizens, particularly the various enclaves that generally stick to their own kind. I was a little annoyed at first by Elinor Upman's seemingly over-portrayal of the main character as a socially inept intern at a Boston hospital. I found it hard to believe since no matter how socially inept a person may be, most people do have manners, even socially inept ones; I thought of the main character as really more rude than inept. However, the progression of the story as it became funnier and funnier won me over. And OK, I do know a few doctors who lack in conversational skills and are completely tactless...    This book is entertaining and will have you laughing.	2005-08-02
US	42520801	R1UUC799AXEU6	B0006HQLNM	574332407	Ciao, America: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	3	6	17	N	N	Most Things Are Accurate.....	Beppe Severgnini, an Italian writer who spends one year in America living in Washington D.C, writes in this book his personal observations on American life and culture. While most things are very accurate and at times, funny to read, I found the overall tone very negative. There must be some good things about America, other than such material thngs as jeans and Klondike bars... Later I learned that this book was first published in Italy and is primarily written for an Italian audience. I also found the book very unscientific. I think Severgnini should have shared his observations with other fellow Americans and asked them why they do the things that they do. I think some of the things that Severgnini finds peculiar, like the superficial friendliness of most Americans, are due to misunderstandings of cultural differences. Italy, like other European countries, have town centers where folks can go and see other folks, as Severgnini does mention in the book. America is seriously lacking town centers in most places. We Americans lack means to see and meet people as easily as they do overseas. Our overt friendliness is just a way to be social. If he had shared his views, maybe he would be able to discern which are truly bizarre traits and which are just a misinterpretation of cultural differences.  I also do not believe that one year is sufficient time to discover all the cultural differences that exist in a country. It's one thing to whine and complain and criticize. It's another to try to see things from the other person's perspective... I was also surprised that in his afterword why he didn't question himself that perhaps the reason he may have found America different when he returned 5 years later was that he was already old-hat to America, he already knew what to expect and it was no longer a new experiece to him anymore, as well as that people are indeed different and a community is only what people put into it. And I don't care how much he whines, driving in two lanes at the same time is not only not done here, it is dangerous and dumb.     It's an OK book written by a rather narrow-minded author. I do agree with most of the things he points out... I just think the tone of the book is a little too critical.	2005-07-09
US	42520801	R22ZL9GJD2N02X	1559705523	34478446	Mrs. Shakespeare: The Complete Works	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Some Things Are Better Left to the Imagination	This book was a little bit Too Much Information. I'm not exactly interested in Shakespeare's sex life.... I'm really wanting to give it 3 stars, except that OK, it could explain some things about Shakepeare and perhaps his writing. <br /> <br />I did enjoy reading from Mrs. Shakespeare's point of view, as Robert Nye presents it in his book. It was funny and clever, as well as a fresh breath of air. I could see why perhaps London was not to her liking... It was interesting to gain a different perspective on Shakepseare through her eyes and on daily and family life in Stratford. <br /> <br />An OK book that reads pretty quickly.	2005-05-20
US	42520801	RHU3OUZ4VW7GQ	0140289526	599536784	The Late Mr. Shakespeare	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Weeds of Truth	This book on Shakespeare is a work of fiction, which actually proves to be very appropriate. As Robert Nye states in his book, if even you were to write a story on your life, even that would be a work of fiction, too. Whether intentionally or not, much of our lives are based on half-truths, white lies, out-right lies, misconceptions, misunderstandings, in addition to whole truths and any exaggerations or diminutives of them, all perceived from  a single unique viewpoint. On a personal note, I've found this to be true. While growing up, I was presented with one set of facts which I found out on my own later to be not entirely true and that the original set of facts had been given to paint a \\"prettier picture.\\" It is conceivable that even Shakespeare may have believed some fiction as truth...<br /><br />Robert Nye has collected in his book many of the rumors, tall tales, stories - be them ugly or pretty, theorizing, etc. down to even the jokes once cracked that have circulated around about Shakespeare and his family from the mouths of his peers, friends and enemies, townspeople, rivals, and anyone else in between. From the very few solid information that we have about the man, this brings to the reader a very interesting perspective. Out of this melange, we can weed for ourselves some of the truth and gain a sense of the nature of Shakespeare. This very extensive collection does make the book very disjointed to read, which is one of the criticisms I have about the book, although due to the nature of collecting all these stories, I don't think the book could have been written any differently. My other criticism, or maybe more a question that I have about the book, is how much of these rumors are true rumors, and not ones that the author may have made up??? I am assuming that all of these second hand recollections are actual since Nye does give a much too lengthy list of acknowledgements right from the start of the book that I felt should have really belonged at the endof the book. This would have given more crediblilty to the stories, instead of boring me to tears with such a long list before the book even rolls off to a start.<br /><br />One thing I found amusing to read was just as how a few folks among us had believed the King of Rock, Elvis Presley himself, may have supposedly faked his death and is living somewhere in cognito, so did the folks during Shakespeare's times think along similar lines. Some thought that Shakespeare hadn't really died and was living on Iceland instead... We're really not all that different from people of long ago.<br /><br />Through the musings of his main character, an actor who was in Shakespeare's theater company, Nye also effectively illustrates that when one writes a biography, one cannot help from including one's own life story. It's the author's way of perceiving truth in relation to the author's own life that cannot help from being included in the biography being written. This is an interesting point to consider when reading any biography.<br /><br />I highly reccommend this book. In addition to all the interesting aspects presented about Shakespeare, I had some laughs and found it enjoyable to read. It is definitely unlike any book I have read. You'll certainly gain an interesting outlook on Shakespeare.	2005-05-17
US	42520801	R1UREU26PHUTAX	0767913744	543858044	Invisible Eden: A Story of Love and Murder on Cape Cod	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Insight Into A Tragedy	As Maria Flook clearly states in the beginning of her book, she is not out to solve the murder of Christa Worthington, and most especially since this book was written before any arrests have been made in the case. She was drawn to write this book because she saw many similarities in Christa Worthington's life to her own, in addition to living in the same neighborhood that was once Christa Worthington's, thus enabling Flook to be an authority to Christa's Cape-neck-of-the-woods.    In place of solving the mystery, Flook presents to the reader the setting and cast of characters involved in the tragic story. She depicts a very colorful slice of life on the thin sliver of land known to some as Land's End, a destination where some of those wanting to end it all make the drive up \\"Suicide Alley,\\" and a place that could very well be what one would imagine the very end of the world to be, if the world was flat, as well as what life had been for Christa during her life, growing up in the Boston area as a sort of black sheep in a very privileged Bostonian family, spending summer vacations at the Cape, travelling the world for school and job, living the \\"beautiful\\" life in NYC. Flook's carefully researched presentations set the stage for the tragedy that happened, allowing the reader a glimpse of the circumstances surrounding the tragic twist in Christa's life. As the reader learns, Christa's demise is a true tragedy in every sense.    I highly recommend this very well written book, being very informative on Cape Cod's interesting history, on its inhabitants  who have struggled throughout the years for survival, the local color and politics, the police department and the appalling obstacles they face in solving crimes, year-round residents vs. \\"snow birds\\", and other items of interest that help in allowing the reader to get a feel for the setting and circumstances surrounding this tragic event. Maria Flook certainly covers all nuances. It is an interesting insight to life on the Cape and in the life of a woman, trying to find a nook for herself in this world.	2005-05-01
US	42520801	R1HFGIE80A8KMD	0743266641	95924953	Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Among the mindless babble, there are some pearls of wisdom	Despite the plethora of mindless but entertaining babble and even though I disagree with most of Paris' opinions, I do like this book.    Paris is all about living life to the fullest, seeking for the good life has to offer, and finding what makes you as a person happy. In  the divided world that we live in now, where it seems that most people are more concerned in maintaining their \\"images\\" rather than seeking out the truth in matters and trying to have actual conversations with different folks, I'm for anyone who is true to their nature, even if I don't agree with all that they are saying. (Where were these women who call themselves \\"feminists\\" when an innocent women was being degraded to nothing more than a piece of property owned by her husband - I'm talking about Terri Schiavo here, but I digress... )I cannot have fault with someone who is still very young and has until now, only known one side of life. I'm sure when she gets older, her opinions will change.... as mine did.    So, why not explore the world that we live in? Why not try new things? Why not be your very own diva? Why not be all that you can be? Why not celebrate life? Yes, indeed, why not? Even if it means taking a risk in facing rough times, as Paris says, you only truly grow during tough times, and we all face tough times at some point along the way.	2005-04-06
US	42520801	R2I81BX1MIC1GB	0944024521	938295951	Evil Corn	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Life in the Midwest Among the Corn and the Crows	This book reads more like Adrian Louis' diary, living among the corn in Minnesota. I found this book very enjoyable to read, especially since Adrian captures the essence of life in the midwest so very well. Living in the midwest not by choice, I also have found myself wondering if the reason life has brought me to the midwest is to ponder the meaning of life and what in hoot and heck am I doing here. Being caucasian myself, even I consider the midwest too darn white, in addition to the complete lack of culture and trees. And the funny thing, or maybe not too funny since I do not welcome it at all, I am almost constantly asked, or rather told, You're not from around here, are you? Ummm, I'm like American. So, yeah, I am from \\"around here.\\" Maybe it is my dark complexion.     Anyways, I applaud Adrian's book. It's funny, cleverly written and dead on.	2005-03-29
US	42520801	R3S12U6CXMZ253	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	1	1	N	N	love, love, love this book	This was a great book - funny, clever, a complete joy to read. This book is a mystery that becomes an even bigger mystery. I was surprised to learn that this book is a young adult book, since I had seen it in the adult book section at the local Borders, but I thoroughly enjoyed reading it nonetheless. It also made me think that autistic people do not think all that entirely different from \\"normal\\" people. (I couldn't tell you what the other faces mean either...) You get a different and amusing perspective on life from the eyes of the main character, a fifteen year old boy living with his father in a kind of surburban hell, on a quest to solve a mystery, or two, even going as far as addressing the biggest mystery of all, the universe.    Two big thumbs up on this one.	2005-03-21
US	42520801	R2D9B9TD7XFUBG	0345464982	572756486	Bad Girl: A Novel	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Bad book, as in not good	This book was really bad. Maybe it should be retitled as Bad Book. It started off pretty good until the author decided to throw in one bad twist after another. In the end, the reader has a hard time keeping track of the characters and deciding for him/herself who the villain is, since the author does not provide any clues for the reader to interpret. I also found it beyond irritating for some of the characters to be grappling constantly throughout the book with the concept of \\"being good\\" or \\"being bad.\\" What the heck does that mean anyways? Aaarggggg! Nobody has to be this \\"perfect\\" person unless that is what they want to achieve. I believe the author is trying to make some commentary on \\"perfect\\" people, that is really not very well welcomed when I am trying to read a mystery. I say each to his or her own, whatever makes you happy, so what and who cares. There are also major potholes in the plot that makes the story implausible, kind of like a bad CSI Las Vegas episode....     If you do not enjoy being manipulated to believe one thing and then be thrown a twist that doesn't make too much sense other than to manipulate the reader, do not read this book. May I suggest Janet Evanovich's mystery series instead. At least the stories are more plausible and it is a complete joy to read. I always feel ten times better after following Evanovich's main character's, Stephanie Plum's, funny escapdes. I felt like pulling out my hair when I finished reading Bad Girl, and especially with all the characters' neurotic thoughts, it put me in a really BAD mood.	2005-03-21
US	42520801	RYR7UQWA1XQGG	B0006C0HDC	60002119	New Design in Weaving	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Guidebook Through Different Ways of Weaving	This book, published in 1970, is more a guidebook than a how-to book. After touring much of Scandinavia and interviewing about 1,500 weavers, the author has culminated in his book different weaving traditions, explaining each style in a clear manner and showing how different artists may have \\"improved\\" upon the method in their own way. Wilcox's point of the book is to present weaving as an artistic medium, rather than just a strict and structured way to make towels and placemats that can become rather boring after a while. In addition, Wilcox provides ample photographs of weaver's works showing the weaving tradtions that he descrbes in the book. Despite how dated this book is, it is very inspirational and has really opened my eyes to the craft of weaving.	2005-03-08
US	42520801	R3E2FFBEI0HXP9	0393050572	948966865	Will in the World: How Shakespeare Became Shakespeare	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Book on Shakespeare	This is my favorite book on Shakespeare so far. What is so great about this book is that Stephen Greenblatt provides the historial background of events occuring during Shakespeare's times that I have gained a greater understanding of the bard and his plays. I also found the book very enjoyable to read, being a more common day reader than a high brow academic. <br /> <br />My only complaint about the book, as well as with other authors in general who write about Shakespeare, is that it seems that Greenblatt has this certain image of Shakespeare in his mind and he tries very hard to prove his idea about Shakespeare by taking bits and pieces from Shakespeare's poems and plays and molding it around his idea to prove it to be correct. I think Shakespeare biographers should understand that Shakespeare was a private man and anything that Shakespeare has written in his poems and plays may have absolutley nothing to do with himself at all. He was after all surrounded by a lively group of people who I am sure provided much fodder for his muse. Who's to say that Anne Hathaway didn't tell Shakespeare that she was fine by herself in Stratford with the kids and why doesn't he seek his livelihood down in London, being the independent woman that Greenblatt suggests her to be. Maybe she is not the unloved, unappreciated wife that Greenblatt makes her out to be. I am sure they have had their share of fights, thus Shakespeare's pun on her last name as \\"hate away,\\" but that doesn't mean that he despised her. She was, after all, his wife and the mother of his children, if they even were his children... We just cannot be 100% sure about the man, especially when there is scant biographical information to go on. <br /> <br />Nonetheless, I highly recommend this book. You're sure to gain insight into the life of Shakespeare, at least from a historial point of view. <br /> <br />	2005-02-23
US	42520801	R39C4W7UW8HK53	0805060782	33850327	The Gluten-Free Gourmet Bakes Bread: More Than 200 Wheat-Free Recipes	Books	5	409	410	N	N	Best tasting gluten-free bread	I've had this book on my shelf for a while, always putting off baking some gluten-free bread partly because most gluten-free recipes come out disastrously and partly because I take the easy way out and buy a loaf of rice bread at the local health food/WF  store.    The other day I was having a rice-bread shortage so I thought I'd try a recipe, \\"Basic Featherlight Rice Bread,\\" from the cookbook. Good thing I gave it a try. That was the best, most delicious gluten-free bread I have ever tasted. The texture couldn't be more perfect, crunchy on the outside and soft and chewy in the middle, qualities that I miss and long for from regular bread. It  tastes very delicious. It also doesn't necessarily need to be toasted, as most gluten-free breads require to make them more palatable. The bread was actually very easy to make. The batter is much like cake batter, thus no worries or guess work in the kneading department. I had only filled the loaf pan barely to the quarter mark, and after about an hour the darn thing rose to the top edge of the pan. I was shocked. There was one ingredient that I had to omit, the egg replacer, since I didn't have any at hand and I really do not know what it is anyways.  The bread came out perfectly regardless. I also substituted the xanthum gum with guar gum since it is significantly cheaper...    Bette Hagman organizes her recipes according to how much bread you would like to make, from small, medium or large. This was extremely helpful since I didn't want to go too overboard. She includes instructions for bread machines as well. She gives a lot of different suggestions for flour mixes that you can use. I personally prefer the rice/tapioca/potato starch mixture, so I most likely will ignore the other suggestions. Hagman has truly found an excellent method to \\"raise\\" gluten-free breads, since gluten is what allows regular wheat breads to rise so well.     I highly, highly recommend this book. I think it'll be a long time before I buy gluten-free bread at the store again.    Addendum:    I've been using this recipe for quite a while now, always making the \\"small\\" loaf-size, and thought I'd share some of the renditions with the recipe that work. Instead of the 1 egg plus 1 egg white, I use 2 eggs; I got a lil' tired of freezing the yolks - I was amassing a large collection of frozen egg yolks and not knowing what to do with them... I use the whole packet of yeast instead of measuring it out; it's close enough and the tiny bit of extra yeast will only make the bread better. I use olive oil instead of butter/margarine. (I would not recommend margarine for anything). And finally, I add 1/4 cup of flax seeds, for the extra nutrition and fiber (gluten-free foods lack fiber...) The flax seeds give it a nutty delicious flavor.	2005-02-09
US	42520801	RIZE3UI5ZFKPV	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Handy	This is an excellent resource to have around, with its wealth of recipes for just about anything and for basic cooking information.  <br /> <br />I have one serious problem with the cookbook, however. Its format for recipes is very hard to follow. Most cookbooks list all the ingredients first and then list the directions afterwards. The recipes in Joy of Cooking jump right into the directions, listing the ingredients only when they are involved in a step, and in paragraph form that runs together making it hard to see each distinct procedure. This has caused many catastrophes in my kitchen. Oftentimes, especially when I am in a rush to cook something, an ingredient, and usually it's the most important ingredient thanks to Murphy's Law, gets omitted. I'm left holding the half baking cake with the missing cup of sugar wondering what the heck to do now... These recipes require careful reading and memorizing where one has left off... <br /> <br />The desert section is the best that there is to be had. I highly recommend it. <br /> <br />I also think that they should have left the original part in about cooking squirrels and other game animals. It's such a distinct part of our colorful American culture. <br /> <br />It's my second favorite cookbook for American cooking, after Bittman's How to Cook Everything. I actually consult sometimes both cookbooks to compare and contrast before cooking....	2005-02-02
US	42520801	R2EKGORJV3H3FJ	0743264800	112432166	It Seemed Important at the Time: A Romance Memoir	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Musings from Gloria	I enjoyed reading this book. Parts of the book are factual and the rest of it is pure emotion, rich with the author's thoughts, observations and feelings about events in her life, sometimes happy, sometimes funny, sometimes sad. Nobody in life gets to pick the family they are born into. Regardless of her background, Gloria's book is about the struggle we all face, in trying to find meaning in this life with the means that we have and in making it with the best that we've got. Some parts of the book are written like thoughts going through her mind, and like all thoughts, they sometimes retrace their steps back to lead to different conclusions.  <br /> <br />This is an endearing quick read. Thanks to the author for her honesty.	2005-01-31
US	42520801	RQGBBXYF25CCK	0743250672	407431104	Style	Books	1	13	23	N	N	"Yeah, I'm Styling" - Kate Spade	This book is nothing more than lists compiled by Kate to show how totally cool and styling she is. What better way to broadcast this message than to write a book about how great your tastes are. Need I say more? There is nothing new to be learned in this book, except oh yeah, according to Andy, \\"Style can't be purchased.\\" Nevermind that any article of clothing mentioned in the book costs mucho dinero, and anything with a Kate Spade label costs big bucks, too. <br /> <br />I would advise anyone wanting to learn good fashion advice to pass on this book.	2005-01-30
US	42520801	R1CLM6GY0G61OW	0486228185	388627366	Mary Thomas's Book of Knitting Patterns (Dover Knitting, Crochet, Tatting, Lace)	Books	5	93	94	N	N	Queen of the Knitting Books	This is a really great knitting book. If you could only bring one knitting book with you to a deserted island, this one would be it. I think it was originally published in the 1940's, or perhaps it was earlier in the 30's, but its contents are still contemporary to this very modern day. Mary Thomas explains in a very clear and easy-to-follow way all different types knitting patterns that can be used for different results, as well as different ways to change the patterns to suit your needs (ie. different needle sizes, etc.) A portion of the book covers garment construction, providing a good foundation for those who would like to venture off and design a garment of one's very own. I was surprised to even find a section on seamless knitting for sweaters that I had thought was originally a certain reputed knitter's idea and which this book outdates... I guess a good idea will never die, only to be passed down to the next generation... There are also some good sections on shaping and an amazing section providing different ideas on finishing touches for the final product. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book. Not only will it be an inspiration, but it will prove to be an excellent resource of information that I find myself reaching for often.	2005-01-30
US	42520801	R3BNL7540KDWXM	0743250664	900494566	Manners	Books	2	48	54	N	N	Kate Spade's Pet Peeves	This book reads more like a list of Kate's pet peeves. There is really nothing new to be learned from this book other than what most people already know, such as chewing gum in public, turning cell phones off in the movie theater, sharing arm rests, splashing people with water while in the pool, etc.   <br /> <br />I found two things disturbing about the book. A lot of the advice she gives, which is very little, in handling awkward sitauations is to grin and bear it and be sure to hit the booze while you are at it. I do not see how getting drunk is a remedy. I think that sometimes it is more appropriate to speak up for yourself in a way that will not be offending to others around you. It's just that when these occasions do arise, sometimes it helps to get a little guidance on how to speak up tactfully, and this book will not provide any such guidance. <br /> <br />I also was floored when she claims that apparently it is a faux pas to wear a band-aid on one's foot that is visible while wearing sandals. ????? eh???? This I do not understand at all. What is one to do if they've injured their foot and it's uncomfortable to wear regular shoes? This advice is a bit too much and way off the mark. <br /> <br />I did learn 2 useful bits of knowledge (like splitting a check and visiting someone's home), but other than that, there isn't anything practical or useful to be learned here.	2005-01-30
US	42520801	RDVT905NKIOX1	1592400906	140935569	Toast	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Starts off boring, ends more enjoyable	Nigel Slater begins his book in his introduction by stating that he is a very private person. Maybe he should have thought twice before writing an autobiography. The first half of the book seems to be just a list of foods and the memories he associates with these foods, which is fine except people want to know more than just a list of foods and events occuring in one's life. Such things like how he felt emotionally, what he thought about these events, what did he learn, etc. are things that make people unique, in how they deal with life's happenings, and will want the reader to learn more about the author and continue reading. Halfway through the book, I found myself wanting to throw the book aside, being bored beyond bored, and thinking that the English are a bit demented.     The pace picks up halfway into the book and becomes more interesting as we gain a bit more insight into his life, although having finished reading the book, now it makes me want to think twice before going out to eat in a restaurant and maybe never eat out at all... Maybe he shouldn't have tried to use so much shock-value in his book. The change in pace makes me think that the first half was just a warm up for him. Perhaps Nigel should have gone back and rewritten the first half. I also could not help from wondering why after he finally did get the mother that he always wanted, one who could cook and bake, the author didn't realize that she could never replace the mother he had before... ????? hmmmmmm.    An OK read that gets more enjoyable towards the end and allows the reader to learn a lot about English food.	2005-01-30
US	42520801	R3RBXEB3R2UIG4	0028610105	755707312	How To Cook Everything: Simple Recipes for Great Food	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Kitchen Staple	If a person was to have just one cookbook, this would be it. This is the best cookbook and the first one I reach for when cooking, as evident in its now broken spine and food splattered pages... Like the title says, it'll teach you to cook just about anything. Take any recipe and it's a guarantee that it'll turn out delicious. Many times, I have used a recipe thinking, hmmm I don't know about this but OK, I'll give it a try and follow the instructions (instead of meandering away with ideas of my own...), and I always end up with something truly delectable. The only slight criticism I have about the cookbook is that the desert recipes are not up to par with the other recipes. Mark Bittman is a true meat and potato guy. His meat and vegetable recipes are failsafe. His desert recipes, although good, are sometimes too basic and not sweet enough, as deserts should sometimes be. For truly good deserts, I reach first for the Joy of Cooking, which has never failed. For anything else, I reach for How to Cook Everything. I highly reccommend the recipes for Simple Roast Chicken, Sauteed Pork Chops - Eight Ways, Classic Lasagne, Mayonnaise, Prime Rib for a Small Crowd, Full-Flavored Chicken Stock, etc. etc. etc.	2005-01-29
US	42520801	RLYSDHHX4PMV2	006018261X	832141869	Naples at Table : Cooking in Campania	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Buonissimo!	This is my favorite, number 1 Italian cookbook. Italian cooking is a real combination of incredibly easy, effortless cooking versus labor intensive works of love. This book has it both. Being that I am slightly lazy in nature, I've pretty much tried all the easy recipes... and they have all turned out so incredibly delicious with really very minimal work and with very few ingredients. Because my family comes from the obscure city of Avella, I'm thoroughly enjoying recipes that my grandmother once cooked. I am grateful to the author for producing a book of recipes that I thought I'd never see or taste at home again. My favorite recipes are: Pasta e Lenticchie (Pasta and Lentils), Lingunie all'Amalfitana (Linguine with Walnuts and Anchovies), Vermicelli alla Campolattaro (Spaghetti with Tuna and Anchovy sauce), Frittata (flat omelet), Zucchine a Scapece (Marinated Fried Zucchini, Scialatielli (pasta), etc. etc. etc. Mangia, mangia!	2005-01-29
US	42520801	R3BZK359HZYAB3	1400061520	925527310	Visits from the Drowned Girl: A Novel	Books	1	10	21	N	N	Pure Crap	This was the worst book I have ever read - completely tasteless and boring. In fact, I think the author even got bored writing in the end. Do not even waste your time reading this book. It is a complete waste of time. There is nothing to be learned or gained, not even any enjoyment whatsoever from reading the book. Pointless subplots having nothing to do with anything, a main character who does not learn anything in the end but spends a lot of time jerking off and getting away with raping a midget, and a \\"white-trash\\" setting and cast of characters that are only included in the story to give the book \\"character\\" is not good literature. I am so disgusted by how much crap gets published that I am writing a letter of protest to Random House. It's about time attention is spent in publishing quality literature.	2004-08-08
US	42520801	R3SCERFHMG8MXA	0471257508	9811674	How to Eat: The Pleasures and Principles of Good Food	Books	5	10	17	N	N	some thoughts on lovage and egg whites	This is a great cookbook with some great ideas, especially when you want to make something a little more special for when you have guests coming over for dinner. Nigella also gives some good advice on how to stock your pantry. Cooking can sometimes be like a battle out there in the kitchen, and one can never go wrong or hungry with a well-stocked pantry. Nigella's chatty style of writing makes the cookbook very entertaining to read on its own, as a regular book rather than one to be used solely for recipes.  I also appreciate the fact that she doesn't take credit for all her recipes and claim them as inventions of her own doing, which would be virtually impossible for anybody, even the high and mighty cooks that a lot of us look up to. As Lawson claims in her book, she's a food lover with an extensive collection of cookbooks and who has fine-tuned a good way to cook after much trial and error in the kitchen. Out of all this comes her book, sharing with the readers the benefits of her experiences.  I laugh at a certain \\"famous\\" barefoot cook who so obviously borrowed a recipe from one of Nigella Lawson's recent cookbooks and changed a few ingredients here and there. At least Nigella gives credit where credit is due, thanking and listing the cooks whom she has used as resources, and allowing readers to pick up from where she was inspired to get ideas of their own.    Now for some thoughts on lovage and egg whites...    In response to a previous reviewer who complained that Nigella talks about lovage in her book, lovage can be grown in a garden, as she suggests in her book, if you have one, or in a pot on your window sill, which I have on mine... - otherwise you can substitute with some chopped  celery instead. I think it's great that she makes suggestions for different types of herbs to try out in your cooking. It's always fun to try something new and different, instead of the same old same old. Nothing ventured is nothing gained, as they say.     Also in defense of the book, I freeze egg whites in small glass jars (- be sure to leave the lids loosely on and then they can be tightened later once everything has been frozen. This will lessen the chances of the glass cracking in the freezer...). I have never had egg whites picking up any bad odors...     This is a great addition to any kitchen's arsenal, as well as a good read if you enjoy reading about food.	2004-05-13
US	42520801	R2B4RPY2TD4IL9	0743255429	19059970	The Hornet's Nest: A Novel of the Revolutionary War	Books	1	5	9	N	N	majorly lacks character devolpment.....	It's obvious that Jimmy did extensive research for the book and it could have been a really interesting read for that reason except that Jimmy did a lot of telling rather than showing, a very elementary rule not to be broken in fiction writing. Parts of the book are also overly repetitive. Often I was informed of the same fact over and over, and I had only read as far as page 50... His book reads more as an outline and a catalog of historical details. It may be hard to be in the hotseat as the editor of this book, but it is truly a shame that the editor did not do his or her job in editing. If only it could have been polished up a little bit before publishing, by fleshing out the characters more, eliminating the repetiveness and the political correctness, it would have been a more enjoyable read.	2004-04-06
US	42520801	R3LA3DXLG1AK0X	0743442776	810363712	Home Swell Home	Books	1	25	31	N	N	Is this for real???	This book was a disappointment. There is a small handful of good ideas (ie. using frayed denim as a bedskirt, paintng one wall a bright color and the rest of the walls white, hanging hooks on the bedroom wall to hang your outfit for the next day, etc.). However, the remaining totally absurd ideas, the constant suggestions of having a bar/minibar throughout various rooms of the house, the abuse to books (nevermind perhaps reading the books and enrichening oneself), and the flippant suggestions to just have your carpenter come over and do the work made me think the authors are just a bunch of arrogant mindless rich witches most likely on drugs. Not everybody can afford to own a place or hire a carpenter/contractor, especially during these times. The real creativity lies in making something wonderful with little resources. I also did not appreciate the broad generalizations they make and hold as truth, such as stating it is a known fact that people who can cook cannot make a good cup of coffee. Ehhh? I don't think so. This was the most irritating book to read, and I had to force myself to read it through to the end. I really felt like burning it when I finished reading. And I consider myself pretty open-minded.... It's amazing how much crap gets allowed to be published.	2004-03-11
