US	42520512	R1IY8FGCA3OYRY	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	4	19	24	N	N	A laundry list of the Liberal Left's dirty tricks.	Judging by both positive and negative reviews below, I think this book has been largely misunderstood. Yes, Sowell is a libertarian. Yes, he writes with support from a 'right wing' think tank. And Sowell DOES take left liberals to task. The meat of the book, though, is that the author give the reader insights into strategies like rhetoric, inflated 'crisis' arguments and statistical mismatching that left liberals tend to use. (Not that this is exclusive to the left as anyone who has read Ann Coulters 'Slander,' knows) <br />   Sowell takes us chapter by chapter through clever ways that the left (he does use them as THE example.) avoid evidence, exagerate claims, and avoid 'trade-off' in favor of 'cosmic' justice.  The sections on statistic botching and the 'constrained' vision of justice are certainly the most interesting and informative.<br />   I suppose conservatives and libertarians will look also at Sowells brawney arguments against bureaucracy and governments ability to solve other peoples problems. I know I did!! Still, I can't help thinking (despite what most reviewers picked up) that that was the secondary point of the book. The real meat is the information Sowell gives us on how to sight a bad argument. <br />   Although I'm a die-hard libertarian, I have to subtract half a star for Sowell's confinement to distortions amongst the left- especially when error in predictions is concerned. Pat Buchanan, Robert Bork, and Rush Limbaugh (if we dare call him and intellectual) have made pretty bogus foresights. And as for the section on inflationary rhetoric, the right can sling empty mud too. I think Ann Coulters book, 'Slander' should be a textbook. <br />   The other half point subtracted is because Sowell, while having written a well researched book with good arguments, did not write it well. It flowed and it will likely keep your attention, but he's just not as passionate and conversational as Hayek and Freidman could've been.<br />   In closing, if anyone wants to have a good chuckle, check out Bob Berkowitz's review below. I really love the part where Berkowitz takes Mr. Sowell, a black man, to task for not standing 'with his own people.' Rhetoric, anyone?	2002-07-13
US	42520512	RXUKMNE3RZXD5	0879755601	996105734	Freedom and Culture (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Good but Remarkably Short Scope.	Like so many other of Dewey's books, this could've been- indeed should've been- longer. It was also a bit more muddled than other Dewey-penned titles I've read. The ideas are many, but if one underlying theme had to be given, it would be the shattering of the nature/nurture dualilsm (as relating to political debate.) I've long since agreed with Dewey here. It is absurd to postulate as to what man's nature is apart from an environment for her to act on. This does not mean that Dewey is denying biological traits- nor is he saying that we are simply products of environment. He breaks through the dualism by suggesting that just as our environments exist the way they do because of our action upon them, we exist the way we do because of how our environemt acts on us. Any line drawing between inside and outside is dangerous and leads to bad theory.<br />   From here, he takes the above theory to a few problems in political debate. Do capitialism and democracy HAVE to be exlusive and is there any good reason they can't function seperately? Does Marxism undermine itself by acknowledging environmental factors to the elimination of human autonomy? If, as Marxism holds, that environment is ALL there is, how can someone be class-conscious- isn't that an autonomous actiion? Dewey's point in asking these questions is to tell us that the answers (if there are any) are not as easy as poltical science might have us believe. For every decision (capitalism, totalitarianism, welfare state etc.) there are trade offs. Here's where Dewey brings in science.<BR>   As we know, the pragmatists are ga-ga over science and rightfully so. Science as Dewey knows it is a process, not a concrete method. Science is debate and discovery through experiment and dialogue. While the natural sciences have been quick in their advances, the social sciences barely creep along. Dewey suggests a few reasons. So as not to give away the book (which you should buy after this review!) the one I'll relay is that of commercialism. He who has the money can decide what research to do and why. Dewey is not a Feyerabendian flake who thinks that this makes science a mere myth, but <BR>he does see the problem when only a few hands hold the ability to do science. To his credit, he sees totalitarian states as even more harmful to scientific progrss. <BR>   My only problem with the book is that at 133 pages, the readers appetite will be wet by every chapter but she will have to look elsewhere for detailed explanations and more thorough discussion. My reccomendation is to read Dewey's &quot;The Quest For Certainty&quot; before, after or during this book.	2002-07-01
US	42520512	R2GYQ3NLZYP4PO	0140262881	859967900	Philosophy and Social Hope	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Not the Rorty I Grew up to Despise!	After reading an endless number of books and articles where Richard Rorty is treated as the devil or just a bad joke, I realized that I'd never read him myself. This book not only served as a splendid introduction, it conlfirms and refutes some of the demonizations Rorty has recieved.<br />Rorty's often ben labeled as an anti-American lefty who spews forth dangerous 'relativism's and even worst 'postmodernisn's. Most of this, we learn, is quite wrong. Rorty is actually one of the more optimistic of the leftist intellectuals. Early in the book, he even takes them to task for being so gloomy, possibly due to an aggrandized nostalgia for Marxism and Postmodernism. The claim that Rorty is a relativist may or may not be true, depending on where you stand. He takes the unusual turn of denying the faculty of reason, but truly, I think there is a place for it in Rorty's philosophy. Instead of reason being the took that grasps reality as it is, in Rorty's framework, reason has the inflated role of choosing between alternatives. His denial of 'objective' human rights is bothering to some, but the same rules apply. What we call human rights, are simply agreed upon human preferences, although many see this (correctly?) as relativism.<br />There are though, a few major flaws with Rorty. His notion of progress is 'evolutionary.' What is the pragmatic view of the future? To make things better. How? We'll know when we get there. Rorty likens this to evolution, and in some ways he is correct. Biological evolution though, can only be judged in retrospect. We know that adapatations survive because they work, but we can only judge their effectiveness in hindsight. Contrary to Rorty's view, culutral evolution doesn't work that way. Here, the question NEEDS to be framed. WHEN EVER we ask a question of how to increase efficiency (social or personal) we must have some goal, purpose or focus. 'We'll know when we get there' is bogus.<br />Also, for a fellow who sees things as having meaningsonly in their relation to other things, there are three concepts Rorty seems to accept on their own: Democracy, Evolution, and John Dewey. As for the first, although we see that it is the best around, this is only because of it's results so I was displeased when Rorty wrote of democracy as an absolute, not relational value. The second, Rorty has a misconception of (see above) and the third, Rorty has very little in common with. \\"Anyone posessing even a modest grasp of his moral philosophy could not confuse Dewey's insturmentalism...with the sentimental philosophy of Rorty.\\" [Moral Writings of John Dewey, introduction]. Dewey never denied reason, Rorty does. Dewey didn't take the 'linguistic turn,' Rorty did. I'm not even sure that Dewey denied that things COULD have intrinsic natures, only reasons's ability to grasp them. Rorty goes whole-hog.<br />Overall though, I was impressed by Rorty's optimism,writing ability and some of his insights: especially on education. Philosophers may want to read his technical writings for more depth, but this book is a good place to start, ESPECIALLY IF , LIKE ME, YOU'VE ONLY READ RORTY'S CRITICS!!	2002-06-21
US	42520512	R3HLARH6LYCCWW	0140400303	751828530	Enquiry Concerning Political Justice and Its Influence on Modern Morals and Happiness	Books	2	17	52	N	N	We all know why THIS one's out of print!!!	As Isaac Kramnick remarks in his introduction, there are many 'schools' of political thought and one should ideally start at their beginnings. Libertarian? Locke. Communism? Marx. Anarchism? Proudhorn?....No. Godwin. This is the first book that I know of to advocate a society without a state. Unfortunately, the reasoning is too bizzarre to be practical and unfortunately for Godwin, time disproved most of this books contents.<br />Godwin's view of human nature is wrong. His view of the determinism (the nature around us is determined, so we have to be.) is immature. He mauls the definitions of 'voluntary' and 'involuntary' action beyond recognition. The good part, honestly, was his critique on existing governments. Very astute, unless you consider that Montesquieu made identical observations several years befor Godwin was born. Still, if you've not read or don't want to read Montesquieu, Godwin's is a forcefully stated, action-packed polemic.<br />His view of a stateless society based on a jejune faith in honesty of all people everywhere is extremely naive and one wonders why Godwin, who doesn't have faith in government or the ruled people (yes, even in democracies) could have faith in peoples capacities for honesty and the self-government that it entails.<br />Alas, I gave this two stars because of it's originality, it's contributions to anarchism (a movement that produces an adequate thinker from time to time) and most importantly, as an historically interesting contrast to Rousseau and Montesquieu who predated this book and Proudhorn, Goldman and even Marx who followed it.	2002-06-20
US	42520512	R30MJNCMU0HE62	0674708768	718836998	The Problems of Jurisprudence	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Pragmatism that's reasonable.	What is law? How exactly do judges reason out it's kinks? Does it operate on presumtions of behaviourism or free-will? Why aren't lawyers or judges puzzled by these quandries? Posner seeks answers and ends up in a not-so-comforting place.<br />This book starts small and ends big. From epistemology (how we gain legal knowledge) through ontology up through his concluding 'Pragmatist Manifesto' the book is quite philosophical and this may be offputting to some in the legal profession. As usual though, Posner tackles his subjects in a clear, fast-paced and exciting way. The task that Posner sets for himself is to forge a place in legal theory (or lack of?) between two radical extremes: On one hand, there is the view that law is a completely isolated profession and legal reasoning is completely internal to it. The other sees law as a clever guise for politics- it's 'methods' being a subterfuge for the judge to justify her political views. <br />Through pragmatism, Posner sees both theories as gross exageration- the first, falsley denying law's susceptibility to outside non-legal techniques and the second's refusal to acknowledge the judiciary's independence from the legislature. <br />As Posner acknowledges in the intro, Posner's view here is middle of the road and to many, it will be boring. He doesn't take sides, rather he creates a side: that of legal pragmatism. No matter what your persuasion philosophtical, political or jurisprudential persuasion, there's nothing like a little Posner to get you thinking!!	2002-06-19
US	42520512	R35FDNCBQBZON3	0674235266	947344343	The Economics of Justice	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Wealth Maximization. Holy cow!!!	Although denied by the author in his book 'Problems of Jurisprudence,' Richard Posner was an integral early pioneer in the movement known as 'Economics and Law.' Picking up where George Stigler and Gary Becker left off, Posner argues that not only human behavior, but law can be understood by the theory of wealth-maximization. This is the philosophy that individuals act in a way that will maximize their benefit (the results of their action) while minimizing cost (energy, time etc. expended in action.) While my review is necessarily simplified, Posners audience is in for a well-made case.<br />After his case is made, he moves on to offer a hypothesis of how law may have developed in primitive societies against this backdrop of wealth-maximization. I've read several authors attempts to 'create' a state (Rousseau, Locke, Nozick) and to my eyes, Posners is the most convincing. Let's see what you think!<br />The third section applies wealth-maximization to privacy and discrimination laws. It is here that Posner is the most likely to disturb. For example, he distinguishes between privacy as seclusion and privacy as secrecy. Privacy as secrecy, Posner argues, is not only inconsistent with constitutional text but is not much more than the right to be able to distort information (whether by omission or declaration) to present and future transactors. This, in turn, distorts the 'market-place' of information and is inconsistent (a slippery slope) with the wealth-maximization of society.<br />Whether you agree or disagree with Posner, his intellect is undeniable, his thesis, original and his writing, first rate. Should be read by anyone interested in jurisprudence, politics, economics and psychology.	2002-06-19
US	42520512	R140LZN8SVIB39	0517548232	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Somewhat Simplified but Very Pertinent!!	It's been about six months since I last read Hazlitt's forcelfully argued little monster. The ideas in it, though, are never far from my mind. More accurately, every time I think about the current state of the political economy, I get the strong urge to buy it and ship it to a senator. Maybe they'll learn something!<br />Although it's title is misleading (not an economics intro, but a manifesto), Hazlitt's book explains in simple language the flaw in todays macro-economic thinking. Money can not be created when taking from source A only to give to source B. Source B only gains by source A's corresponding loss. Sounds simple, right. Then why are we convinced that tariffs, minimum wage, and the federal reserve (GASP!) are doing anything positive by operating on that theory. When we force the minimum wage up, all we are doing is shifting the burden to the consumer by upping what the employers products cost to make. As soon as the wages go up, so do prices. Once the prices are raised, that whole industrys prices go up (because they can) and everyone pays more INCLUDING the employees you thought you were helping. Hazlitt doesn't stop there, he gracefully applies the theory to a plethora of situations.<br />Although somewaht oversimplified (200+ pages) and certainly biased (free market) This book offers us a good theory, good argument and- suprisingly rare in econ texts- an overall enjoyable read. The only two real problems I see are: 1) As Hazlitts arguments all stem from this anti-distribution theory, the book gets repititious and you'll probably get the drift by page 120, and 2)At certain points, Hazlitt fails to distinguish between 'pecuniary wealth' and 'value wealth.' Wealth in dollars and wealth in utility are two different things. If we shift some money from source A (a dormant bank account) to source B (a compnay building a bridge to allow new commerce) Hazlitt argues that all we've really done is shift a static dollar amount. Of course the bridge when built willbring an escalation in commerce that will likely maximize it's use. While in the end, I think that Hazlitts argument, that money should not be forced into source B's hands by artificial distribution, Hazlitt doesn't pay enough attention to pecuniary v. real value. Still, this book is a great polemic, showing us why distribution tends to have the reverse effect. BUY I...if only so you can puke next time you watch the senate activities on C-SPAN.	2002-05-24
US	42520512	R93Q4Z0GBKK66	0399501916	859100388	The Quest for Certainty: A Study of the Relation of Knowledge and Action (Gifford Lectures 1929)	Books	4	43	43	N	N	If There's Such Thing as a Paradigm Shift....	As you can see, this book is out of print BUT GET IT ANYWAY! Dewey's solution to the to the intrinsic/extrinsic dillemea in the philosophy of knowledge is fascinating and worth thinking about.<br />He sees this problem as built around a misdefinition of knowledge- that is, knowledge as grasping the 'nature' of an external internally. Dewey replies, it can't be done. Knowledge, instead of drawing a hard line between the knower and the known, is experimental. When we know things, we do not know them in themselves. Rather we know our interaction with them. I can not grasp a tables nature; only traits revealed when I knock on it, set things on it, and perform other 'experiments.' Knowledge both in itself (Plato) and as gained only through passive empiricism (Locke, Hume) is a myth.  While 'objectivists' might condemn this as denying the possibility of knowledge all-together, Dewey urges us against that interpretation. The objective world still exists under Dewey's remonstration. Instead of intrinsic knowledge (under Dewey, a paradox) we can only grasp it extrinsically.<br />This leads Dewey to theories of action. Action and knowledge (if I may paraphrase) are a loop with no clear division. We act (rather interact) with reality to gain new knowledge and control of it. Similarly, knowledge has no purpose but as a tool to further interaction with reality. Even the most abstract knowledge must serve as a symbol for some action in the 'external' world. Conversely, every action is an attempt to gain some knowledge of or control over the external world.<br />The reason for the subtracted star is that Dewey..let me see if I can put this nicely...is a horrible writer. When I say horrible, this is really dry. Couple that with ultra-abstract discussion and you'll be rereading sentences on an average of 2 per page. Trust me though, it is really worth it. Dewey, even if he doesn't change the way you look at epistemology, will give you ideas to challenge yourself with!	2002-05-24
US	42520512	R2JRKR44H4E2IU	0460873466	820499080	Utilitarianism, on Liberty (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	"On Liberty"- The #1 defense of individuality ever!!!	You can read Rand, Emerson and Hayek. You can even marvel at the orations of Patrick Henry and Thomas Jefferson. There is still not a single book that defends individual liberty and individual spirit as well as J.S. Mill's \\"On Liberty.\\" <br />First, it must be said; If we are judging by original philosophical arguments, Mill is not much. His \\"Utilitarianism\\" (on which much of \\"On Liberty\\" was built) has been attacked from many angles. His \\"Representative Government\\" is better replaced by Locke's \\"Second Treatise\\" or (if you've time to kill), Montesquieu's \\"Spirit of Laws.\\" I still give this five stars though because \\"On Liberty\\" is just that good. I've already read it 5 times in '02!<br />What makes it so gosh-durn tasty is that it is the first book- to my knowledge- to defend individual liberty without stooping to the 'natural rights' or 'social contract' balderdash. Liberty, Mill argues, is good for a few reasons. First, it maximizes debate which helps avoid the stifler of all societies, dogmatism. It is also the best way not to screw things up, meaning, that people know their interests better than others. As the reviewer below points out, Mill does disdain majority rule though it's not out of contempt for the masses (Mill is clear this is not what he means.) Rather, his view is that majority rule leads to tyranny just as fast as despotic rule. What it boils down to is that Mill defends democracy, liberty, skepticism and tradition (yes..simultaneously) as long as each AVOIDS dogmatic thinking and operates while keeping the individual sacrosanct. Ya know..come to think of it...Bush, Gore, Dashcale, Gephardt, Hatch, Lott and the entire beltway clan might benefit from this read. I wonder if they can understand such big thoughts?! Just kidding!! (No, I'm not!)  ;-/	2002-05-23
US	42520512	R3KWFTVHV5UTB8	0195130952	256537851	Religion in Politics: Constitutional and Moral Perspectives	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Book That Could've Benefitted From a Bit More Thought.	This is a deeply felt issue by all viewpoints involved. As such, it has proved difficult for authors to write about in a coolheaded, professional way. Michael Perry (Wake Forest University) has done a good job. With clear, concise writing and a style unafraid of difficult subjects (abortion, homosexualism) he challenges everyone from secularist Richard Rorty to Pope John Paul II.<BR>     The book is divided into three sections. The first discusses the constitutional issues. What position is the government obliged to take on religious issues? To this, Perry answers: a neutral one. Government should neither support nor discriminate against religious ideas. The second section moves away from the first amendment to discuss whether it is moral for constuents to use religious arguments in public debate. Perry answers yes. All sides of an argument need to be represented and as long as the view expressed is relevant (i.e., it speaks sincerely to the issue) it should be put into the marketplace of ideas and discussed. Good so far. The last section talks about wheter it is then moral for a legislator to use and vote a certain way because of a religious argument. It is here that Perry's argument becomes inconsistent.<BR>     Here he answers that it is only moral for a legislator to use religious argument to decide issues if she can also reach the same conclusion by secular reasoning. One problem with this. This view (apart from being incongruous with Perry's above opinions) undermines the concept of a democratic republic. If Perry supports the constituents use of religious arguments and the representatives job is to represent her constituents, than if the majority of her constituents use a religious argument wouldn't it be moral for her to reflect her constituents wishes legislatively? Perry is inconsistent. What would the point be of saying yes to religious argument amongst constituents if the representative of the constituents can not use that religious argument unless supported by a corresponding secular one? This huge inconsistency made it hard for me to take the book as seriously as I might have.<BR>     The only other thing that bothered me was the use of endnotes instead of footnotes. The text is 106 pages followed by 51 pages of very thorough endnotes. Seeing as the endnotes added a lot to this book, it would've saved a lot of page-flipping had the notes been printed at the bottom of their respective pages. Nit-picky? A bit. Trust me, it will become a distraction.	2002-05-10
US	42520512	R3KSK1OHNQ9IW	0192810340	615966289	Four Essays on Liberty	Books	4	8	8	N	N	It's Deeper Than You Might Suppose!	&quot;One belief, more than any other, is responsible for the slaughter of individuals on the altars of the great ideas....This is the belief, that somewhere in the past or in the future, in divine revelation or in the mind of an individual thinker...there is a final solution.&quot;<br />     Isaiah Berlin has been somewhat wrongly looked at simply as a historian of ideas. While he is that, this book is fertile with ideas, old, new, original and daring. What start out as four essays on liberty, turn out to reveal an astute world view. The one quoted above is taken from the third essay, his famous &quot;Two Concepts of Liberty.&quot; In it he argues that the division between 'freedom from' and 'freedom to' is a subtle intertwine, more delicate than we often suppose. In the end, we must err on the side of 'freedom from' for one important reason; while the abscence of coercion might leave loose ends, by trying to tighten all loose ends, the rope loses all slack. Without the metaphor, by coercing others, we assume that our viewpoint is the only correct one and force others to live uniform to our ideas. <br />     This is the theme that runs through all four essays. The first, &quot;Political Ideas in the Twentieth Century&quot; examines the failure of all the isms then en vogue; communism, fascism, socialism. Same idea. They preached of a graspable absolute truth that in the end, proved not so handleable. The second essay, &quot;Historical Inevitability&quot; tackles the problem at the root; the belief that our actions are determined and that free will is an illusion. Berlin, while not trying to disprove it (try, you can't do it!), exposes it as untenable. Every thought, action, word and concept we evoke is dependant upon belief in human autonomy. This essay is quite long and began to repeat itself a bit. Fight off the urge to skip through it. Very meaty!!<br />     The last essay, &quot;John Stuart Mill and the Ends of Life&quot; is something of a recap of the ideas presented in the book. It is Berlins tribute and critique (Mill would've approved) of Mill, his philosophy and his life which unlike most philosophers, was lived in complete accordance with his views. <br />     Great book. The only problems I had were the length of the second essay and Berlin's annoying habit of turning every sentence into a twenty-one lined, 12 comma, infinitive after split infinitive beast. Although his language is beautiful (a la Barzun), this was hard to get used to. HIs thoughts, though, are classic.	2002-05-07
US	42520512	R1F7NV8G74YXMW	1573928003	979899455	The Theory of Moral Sentiments (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	101	111	N	N	A book that shouldn't be ignored	Those who are looking for an answer to the age old question, 'Why should we be moral?' will be, in a sense, disappointed by this book. Smith from the get-go, shifts the question. Instead he asks, 'Why ARE we moral?' Subtle difference? It's bigger than you may think.<BR>     <BR>     Smith takes our moral nature as a given. Humans are born with an innate capacity for sympathy. We identify others as like ourselves and unless otherwise provoked, do not want to hurt others. We also have an innate desire for esteem. We learn early that treating others kindly gains us admiration in the same way that we naturally admire kind people. This is the core of Smiths thesis and from here he puts examines these principles across an array of human behaviors. Why do we tell truths when we could tell undetected lies? Why would we do kindly to others even if esteem of peers is not gauranteed? Why would some die for their family members or their country?<br />     Probably the trait Smith admires most is prudence; the art of knowing what is and is not appropriate action both in our subjective judgement and that of an imagined 'impartial spectator.' The prudent person is able and willing to put herself in the context of other people. 'Although an action seems justified to me, would others see it that way?' 'Would satisfying small desire X of mine be an obstacle to other's fulfillment of larger desires?' <BR>    <BR>     It goes on from there. Smith puts these ideas well to the test going through scenario after scenario. Because of this, I would say this book should be shelved in psychology, not philosophy as it simply tries to give an account of the way we think. Thus the philosopher looking for a forcefully stated, internally consistent and completely reasoned 'moral system' will not find it in these pages. Smith takes us only so far but when asked 'Why do we have these inclinations to be moral and gain esteem,' he simply answers that it is in our nature. This may be the best answer wecan hope for, but it will leave some philosophers unsatisfied. <br />     Regarding the length, IT IS TOO LONG!! With a good editor, 200 pages could've easily been cut. I would even say that the last section, examining flaws in existing moral systems is not necessary and can be skipped. Aside from length, it is a joyful read, though. Smith is an excellent writer and certainly better than Hume, Locke and others of the day. As a conclusion, those looking to bridge the chasm in the 'Wealth of Nations' between Smiths simultaneous advocation of free trade and his disdain for unchecked greed in all it's forms...look no further than \\"Theory of Moral Sentiments.\\"	2002-05-05
US	42520512	R2BQMLVYK7N9RX	0913966797	329994553	Teacher in America	Books	5	42	46	N	N	A Salute to Excellent Teaching	The hardest yet most refreshing part about reading this book is that I am 25. One can easily pick up the urgency in Barzun's words and doubtless he was critiquing the educational modifications of the time- originally published in the 40's. Since that time, every school has become the 'progressive' school that Barzun warns against- A furthering of Deweyan principles of 'It's not learning if it ain't fun' and 'true understanding is in the heart, not the head.' In an effort to make education fun and push students through at all costs, we've lost any sense of the teacher's true goal- to instruct.<BR>     I should not give the false impression that Barzun is a hard nosed, humorless curmudgeon who would turn back the clock to monotanous recitation and rote-memorization. The truth is that he is somewhere in the middle. Before the job can be done correctly, the teacher needs to gain the students willful attention and her trust. At that point though, the student NEEDS to be challenged- the student will be pushed to learn (yes, memorization may be involved), grades will be imposed and the student will- it's true-come out the better for it.<BR>     The best part is that while Barzun jabs at administrators and theorists (can't we all relate) he writes with obvious love for teachers and students, always keeping their interests in mind. While Barzun can come off as a sourpuss when poking fun at the circular Ph.D system and standardized testing, he is easily forgiven when discoursing on how and how not to teach mathematics, history, arts, literature, the sciences and writing. I only wish he would've been  one of my instructors. <BR>     The only other thing I can say is that while for teachers, this book is a MUST HAVE, for students (of all ages and abilities) this book is a hidden treasure. Barzun, while giving advice to teachers and administrators, inadvertently (?) gives us tips on how to learn and more saliently, how to think. I'm confident that I will reread this many times throughout my lifetime. Bravo!!!	2002-04-29
US	42520512	R1UTQ0A3KPV0TQ	0451524217	645845418	McTeague	Books	5	88	90	N	N	Realism; not once, not twice, but thrice over!!	I, like at least one other reviewer below, first heard of Frank Norris while rummanging the bookstore. After finishing McTeague, it puzzles me how I made it to age 25, through high school and college American Lit courses without reading him! Maybe I'm bold but I enjoyed this book more than any Hawthorne, Steinbeck or Twain.<br />This book is realism thrice over. The first 'realism' is coventional. Norris in the vain of the French realists writes a novel exploring people with complete human imperfections. From the feeble-witted McTeague (Norris never gives us his first name) to his avaricious wife Trina, we are introduced to a cast of characters who fuction the way people do. And unlike today's 'realist' literature that tries to be shocking for shock value, Norris is nothing but sincere.<br />The second 'realism' is Norris's refreshing 'fly on the wall' approach. Unlike fellow realists like Dreiser and Lewis, Norris does not judge his characters- never commenting or moralizing, just reporting. Through two murders, one rape fantasy and  spousal abuse among other things, Norris simply tells it as it 'happens.' <br />The third 'realism' is in the language, both that of the characters and the novelist. It is always said that Hemingway was the one who taught us that descriptively, less is more. Now I see that there would have been no Hemingway without Norris. He is sparse and terse, giving the novel a life-like tone. The characters tend to stammer (\\"Yeah- uh- uh- yeah, that's the word\\") reflecting the way we really talk.<br />This is not Henry James, Edith Wharton or Harriet Stowe. It is a gritty tale set in 1890's San Francisco with an ending that will leave you in nothing less than shock. Before Raymond Carver, Ernest Hemingway and John Steinbeck, there was Frank Norris and McTeague.	2002-04-22
US	42520512	RB2U2AR8MC59L	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	4	6	7	N	N	To be read and digested on many different levels!	Looking through the reviews below, it is not suprising that they run the gamut. This book can and should be read on many levels. <br />Atlas Shrugged was offered to the world as Miss Rand's grand exposition of her philosophy of Objectivism. Unlike most philosophical novels, it is offered as something of a mystery story, revolving around Dagney Taggart's struggle to save Taggart Transcontinental railways. As if the task wasn't big enough, she's puzzled by the out-of-the-blue disappearance of brilliant businessmen. Their businesses fold and they vanish, just like that. Why? This is the book on it's first level. That of a completely enthralling mystery.<br />The second level is as a philisophical discussion. Relativism v. objectivism (small 'o'), faith v. reason, self-reliance v. government paternalism and the nature of man- to name a few- are given treatment. All I should say here is that while the discussion (usually through first-rate dialogue) can seem throrough to the uninitiated, Rand certainly tends to misrepresent views she disagrees with- not just in Atlas Shrugged, but in the complete body of her work.<br />This brings us to the third level of the novel. Not just a discussion of philosophy, but of Objectivism. Especially towards the end when we enter 'Galt's gulch', we see Miss. Rands vision of the future. It is exciting, to say the very least. <br />So there are the three levels. The novel tends to be known as an exposition of Objectivism but I would urge the reader to read Atlas Shrugged first as a gripping story. When I came to the novel, I'd already read Rand's non-fiction, Peikoff's &quot;Objectivism: The Philosophy of Ayn Rand&quot; and Chris Sciabbara's &quot;Ayn Rand: The Russian Radical.&quot; If the reader wants simply an exposition of Objectivism only, she would do best to pick up Peikoff and Sciabbara first. As a novel however, there is seldom a 1,000+ page book more gripping and provocative. I think it took me about a week and I'm a medium pacedreader.<br />As a footnote, I am a former objectivist. The reason I feel it important to mention is that as other reviewers note, to the uninitiated, this novel can become something of an obsession. If this is the first philosophy a reader experiences, she might hesitate to read more philosophy, partly because of Miss Rand's erroneous depiction of other philosophers- namely pragmatism and Kantian philosophy. This is the position I found myself in and as other reviewers attest, it is not uncommon. If a reader finds themselves in that position, two good books to read (it might hurt a bit, but trust me) would be Karl Popper's &quot;Objective Knowledge&quot; and Antony Flew's &quot;Introduction to Western Philosophy.&quot;   While I'm still in a great degree of sympathy with most of Rand's philosophy, there is a wealth of great philosophy out there.	2002-04-21
US	42520512	RBHLZO0UDQQ73	067973192X	768238741	Falling in Place	Books	5	13	14	N	N	With a sharp eye, Beattie gives us realism at it's deepest!!	I knew someday I would be compelled to write a review of this book. I just had no idea it would be today. So here I am killing time on Amazon when I find out that this, one of my favorite novels, is going out of print? So naturally, I had to....<br />I also notice the extreme polarity of opinion to Beattie's novels in the reviews below. One has to be in the right frame of mind to read Beattie, who when she wrote 'Falling in Place,' was just coming out of what the critics had called the 'minimalist' movement. Beattie's prose is quite terse, giving the reader a feeling fo averageness. Why? She is quite a realist and herein lies the hidden beauty in her words. In Beatties world the characters just are; They are not likeable or unlikeable and that is the point. No one in life is quite one or the other. And her words. At length, here's a passage from page 51:<br />Why Spangle? Because there was no one like him, that was part of it. One day, he had taken her hand, before they were even out of bed, and asked if he could hold it all day. When they had to go to the bathroom, they walked back to the apartment, so they wouldn't have to let go of eachothers hands. They had walked along swinging hands. They had propped their elbows on a tabletop and hand-wrestled. He had kissed her hand, rubbed it. \\"I'm pretending I can keep you,\\" he said. \\"I'm pretending it's as easy as this.\\" <br />The reader reads \\"Falling in Place\\" to fall in love with prose and characters, not plot and action. And my, there are plenty of characters worthy of attention here. Spangle, the all-too-grown up slacker, Mary, the dreary teenage girl obsessed with Peter Frampton, and Cynthia, the depressed summer-school teacher who, no matter how she tries, can feel nothing but contempt for her students. <br />Honestly, this book is about the intertwining lives of several wandering souls and if you want plot, it's not here. If, like me, you can't help falling in love with beautiful, idiosyncratic, life-affirming characters and honey-sweet prose, pick this up. All to regretfully, you'll have to get it used.	2002-04-18
US	42520512	R2Z4JM1G53UHI4	0898796822	17923208	Writing Better Lyrics	Books	5	48	50	N	N	This is THE book for lyric writing	Lyric writing is doubtless the hardest aspect of songwriting (for most of us anyhow.) Believe me though when I say that this book is better than any other for helping you clear this most challenging hurdle.<br />I took two lyric writing courses with Pat at Berklee Coll. of Music and although I don't recall that this book was required, I bought it anyway. Pat is just too insightful not to have his ideas and suggestions spined out on my bookshelf.<br />First, he covers a technique called object writing. Without giving away too much, it is a brainstorming technique which shows us how to dig deeper into ours senses. This not only helps us write more powerful lyrics, but strengthens our imagination, insuring that fresh ideas abound. It is no exageration to say that this alone is worth the book's price many times over.<br />From here, he goes into methods of charting a lyric. Most of us tend not to think this systematically when writing (mapping out different rhyme-schemes and metaphor possibilities) but often times, it can help our writing develop an often lacking structure. <br />While these first chapters are arguably the meat of the book, the rest will prove valuable as well, going into metaphor, viewpoint, meter and the like.  With grace and insight, Pat shows us continuously how to 'show, not tell' the listener your story, a lesson that many writers unfortunaltely never learn. <br />No matter what tools are missing from your lyric writing toolbox, Pat can help you find, polish and utilize them. Enjoy!!	2002-04-17
US	42520512	R3UGD7OUDB1194	002411510X	356218477	Walden Two	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A look into a fascinating yet frightening idea!	Imagine a world where you got to choose what you did every day (as long as your four daily labor-credits are completed), where, as everyone is equal to everyone else, the words 'thank-you' are never used and where education, which is never forced, is something your kids just WANT to do. Is this better living through operant conditioning?<br />This fictional community is the brain-child of the famous (and imfamous) behavioral psychologist  B.F. Skinner. Skinner believed that all behavior can be controlled by modification and 'positive reinforcement.' Well, here it is. A Skinnerian utopia.<br />The book itself has no real plot to speak of. The central characters,a group of 2 university professors, 2 twenty-somethings fresh from army service, and their two girlfriends that have been invited to take a tour of the Walden Two community. The book (narrated by one of the professors) is the fictional account of the tour which gets extraordinarily specific. The communes education, commerce, child-rearing, and governing practices are well-examined and this book, whether you agree with good ol' B.F. or not,  will have you constantly thinking from new angles. If you're anything like me (frightening thought!) you might find yourself actually talking back to the book. What a rare experience!<br />The four stars are for both the writing- Skinner does much better than most psychologists crossing over to fiction- and for the wealth of ideas which are sharp, challenging and scary. Although in the end, I disagree with just about every idea Skinner remonstrates, this is a book that I'm sure I will reread and ponder over quite often.	2002-04-11
US	42520512	RHEG4AD2Z1GNE	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	1	18	38	N	N	High-brow gossip column?	First off, you should know that this is an incomplete review. Why? I only made it to page 107. Why? I was in the mood to read a book discussing intellectuals in a way that was....intellectual. This was not the book I should've picked out.<br />The first chapter starts out with the social philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Without so much as stating a thesis or goal, Johnson launches an attack. Doesn't even wait untill you're into the book (ideally meaning the 20th page or so). The second intellectual was Percy Shelley...same treatment from Johnson. Next Marx and Ibsen, same formula. So what is Johnson's goal?<br />First, it will be obvious to anyone familiar with Johnson that he has a definite bias to the right (the counterpart of Howard Zinn) and one has to ponder whether he would feel the same enjoyment- it does come through in his writing- if he were dissin' on de Maistre instead of Marx?<br />This means that the inferred objective- remember, Johnson states no thesis- of exposing hypocritical intellectual figures is simply a subterfuge. I will admit, sometimes Johnson has good points as when he rightly criticizes Marx for distorting figures that differ from his ideology while at the same time, professing science. Yes, exposing flaws that affects an intellectuals professions to the public (as it is a 'public' role)is the kind of thing the historian/journalist should point out. But more often than not, Johnson is criticizing Rousseau's private tempermant and Shelleys sexual ethics.<br />Let's be honest. The politician is judged by how she fulfills her 'public' duty, the novelist and philosopher are judged by the work they write for 'public' consumtion. If you really care if the characters in the above professions cheat on their spouses, get drunk or don't believe in god, then and only then should you think about reading this book. Better yet, go to the supermarket and just buy the National Enquirer!	2002-04-06
US	42520512	R3I62K95Z8ZHKE	0913966320	31424952	The Servile State (Liberty Fund Classics on Liberty)	Books	2	16	88	N	N	Thoroughly muddled thinking	This was a book that I simply couldn't stop reading, not because it was illuminating. On the contrary, I kept hoping that with the next turn of the page, Melloc would make sense or at the very least say something that wasn't muddled, confused or vague. I got through 200 pages still scratching my head!<br />His outline is this. Unrestrained capitalism is unstable as it puts property in the hands of the few and the many are left propertyless. This instability can only be resolved in three ways: 1)all property becomes collectively owned through the state (socialism), 2)The return of the 'servile state,' where the propertyless few are forced to labor for bare subsistance provided by those that own the property, and 3)distributive state, where property is distributed equally, but each owner has individual property rights thereto. Melloc's theory is that any attempt at socialism will lead to an equally undesirable servile state, leaving the only real option of distributivism.<br />In theory this sounds great and to Melloc's credit, he states his goals right off. He then defines his key terms- something that political scientists should ALWAYS do. It's a good thing he does this, because the definitions he gives are completely WRONG!!!<br />Property, he defines strictly as means of production. Property rights, then, refer only to that with the ability to aide in production. No wonder so many people, as Melloc sees it, are propertyless!! Next he defines capitalism not as a system of contractual economics that recognizes individual property rights (as it's usually defined) but as any situation where the few as opposed to the many, own the means of production. Under any conventional definition that also describes fascism, socialism, and feudalism, but Melloc fails to see the connection (especially with feudalism, which he applauds)!<br />The next big problem is Melloc's black-and-white approach to what does and does not constitute servitude. Early on, he is clear that one is only a slave if either one is absolutely forced to work (for moderate or little return) or was moderately compelled to work for life (again for moderate or little return). Later on in the book though, we notice Melloc's inability to see any middle ground. He groans at minimum wage, and 'pro-labor' quality control measures simply because he assumes that anyone in an employee/employer position must be there by unwilling servitude. There does exist grey area between the upper-crust and the slave.<br />The last major problem is his solution of the 'distributive state' where citizens have private ownership of property. Although Melloc never addresses how, when, how often, and what apportionment will be used, the infeasability of the 'distributive state' is not hard to see. Even if we suppose that property will be distributed equally (having been snatched from the former capitalist owners) there still exist two problems. First, by the act of snatching, you've already violated property rights. If property can be taken without just compensation, than the term is meaningless. Second, this equality of property will only last so long. As some have a natural talent for business (or any other trade, for that matter) some owners will outshine others, and the really adroit ones will gradually put the other owners under. Right back where we started; What then?!<br />So why two stars? Melloc, though politically feeble-brained, is a good writer and if one can keep his definitions straight, his can be rather insightful. His critiques on what would soon be the FDR welfare-state are pretty accurate and in depth. Also, like I said, this book did keep my attention, which for mish-mash like this, is an outstanding feat.	2002-04-06
US	42520512	R2RGMMC9UON7E0	0486202917	773391290	The Will to Believe, Human Immortality, and Other Essays in Popular Philosophy	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Great reading . James is one of a kind.	Philosophers are notorious for not feeling a work worthy of attention unless it is poorly written and arcane. Karl Popper was ignored, so was George Santayana, so was Arthur Schopenhaur. In the world of philosophy, it doesn't so much matter what you say- If it did, Wittgenstein and Hegel wouldv'e been dismissed out of hand- but how poorly you say it. This collection of essays, while garnering more attention than the above authors, might've been taken more seriously if it wasn't so easy and fun to read.<br />In these essays we find a man who is what the philosopher should be. His ideas describe the way we think and act instead of conceptualize the way we 'should' think or act. The first few essays are on religion, the validity of which James does not confirm nor deny. Simply put, James sees religion as a handy tool for action. God makes the world more manageable. It synthesizes a world that appears random, it explains- however truthfully- a world than seems in need of explanation. James, I believe, is an agnostic in the truest sense. Experience can confirm or deny God and as long as one is open to experiential evidence, the pendulum can concievably swing either way.<br />The next essays give a basic outline of what would later be pragmatism. Ideas, James conjectures, are tools for action. We not only act because we think, but think exclusively because we act. The essays here are a bit repetitive, but James' prose is so crystal-clear that you'll want to keep reading.<br />Finally, we come to the last two essays that deal with 'mysticism' and the 'supernatural' phenomena that psychologists, philosophers, and scientists would rather not even consider. Both the believer and sceptic will find use in these essays as they dismiss both the scientists snap-denial of 'psychic' phenomenon and the believer's untested belief. Neither party, it seems to James, wants to examine evidence and come to a responsible conclusion, what ever that conclusion is.<br />James has been admired,chastised, name-called, idolized and scrutinized for his unbridled agnosticism. Whether you come to admire or discard James' unique thoughts about thoughts, these essays are clearly written, accessable, erudite and witty. If you're not a philosopher, read this. If you are one, read it but don't tell anyone you did so!	2002-04-02
US	42520512	RN4BICF84PY5O	0374528497	64824201	The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America	Books	4	15	17	N	N	An Undeniable Rarity	What makes this book so rare and, in my opinion, delectable, is it's seamless fusion of biography, history, philosophy and just plain engrossing storytelling. Very few books can do that, let alone do it as beautifully as this one.<br />Its underlying theme is the intertwining lives of psychologist William James, jurist Oliver Wendell Holmes, and philosophers Charles Peirce (pronounced 'pers') and philosopher John Dewey. Together (yet seperately)they created a philosophy called Pragmatism. The title, I warn you, is a bit misleading. The Metaphysical Club refers to a club that met, consisting of these and a few other members. When I say briefly, the clubs existence in this book takes up maybe 40 pages, so to call the book by that title may give the reader is distorted view of its contents.<br />Much more than philosophy and biography is covered in this book. The author has a tendency to wander off track. For example, Charles Peirce, early in his career, testified in a trial over a will supposedly forged and the author spends a good chapter on the trial alone, rarely mentioning Peirce. Also towards the books beginning, we hear much more about the Civil War itself than Holmes role as a combatant. Put briefly, if you are looking for a book strictly introducing and explaining pragmatism, this is not the best book. Pick up The Pragmatism Reader, edited by Menand. You could also simply read the last three chapters of this one, which contain one of the best outline of pragmatism outside of James and Peirce that I've read.<br />If, though, you have the time and interest to hear great stories and learn some new things, this is a first rate book. The characters come to life (especially Peirce and Holmes) and if you stick through untill the end, you will find that the book, albeit in a round-about fashion, DOES offer us a good look into pragmatism and its galvanizers. See, one of pragmatisms core 'tenets' is that ideas can't be well understood when seperated form context. We form ideas only as guides for action in the existing world, so ideas without situational reference is like a table without a base. In order to understand how pragmatism got started, then, we must need context. Now the discussions mentioned above about the Civil War and the trial over the will do not seem like asides, but rather as necessary to understanding the whole.<br />As I said above, this book is an extrememly well written, entertaining and erudite look at America and it's first native philosophy. Higly reccomended. (If you like this get Branden's \\"My years with Ayn Rand\\" and Magee's \\"Confessions of a Philosopher.\\"	2002-03-26
US	42520512	RY2CNN3PLTMCN	067400633X	936848573	Public Intellectuals: A Study of Decline	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Starts with a bang; Ends with a flicker.	If I would've been asked to review this book at page 200, I wouldn't have thought twice about giving it 5 stars. Problem is, at page 360, I'm debating whether it is worth my time to read the last 40 pages. Likely, I will not.<br />The book itself starts off great. The thesis is well presented- that public intellectuals, through over-specialization, snap-decisions and decreased accountability have become not only more irreverant, but also irrelevant.<br />The firt half of the book is analysis of the 'market' of public intellectualism as a whole; its problems and virtues. Reader be warned, you'll be taken through some exacting economic analysis on this one and as this half of the book deals mostly with abstracts, it can get difficult. Posner is a great explainer though and if you like this subject, you'll find you can't quit reading! Posner's main point so far is that public intellectualism is an economic market, but is closer to that of entertainment than information. In the same way no one seems to hold day time talk show psycic Sylvia Browne accountable for her zany predictions, neither do (or should?) most of us hold Noam Chomsky or Robert Bork for their just as off-the-wall gems. To its further detriment, unlike most markets,public intellectualism is deficient in quality controls. I felt Posner's point in all of this was not ho-hum pessimism, but to point out problems so as to hint at solutions.<br />The second half of the book is a concrete examination of the different areas of the market; literary criticism, law, public commentary, social satire. I've two problems with this half (a bit over half) of the book. First, If you were paying attention to the first half, unless you're that concerned with examples, everything's been said. Second, Posner talks only about a few examples in each chapter. For instance, instead of talking about the 'public philosophy' market as a whole, he uses the space to talk about Martha Nussbaum and Richard Rorty, never quite getting to anyone else. In his chapter on social satire, the discussion is EXCLUSIVELY on Orwell's 1984 and Huxley's Brave New World. While his examples are ammusing, most of us are familiar with the careers of those on which he speaks (if not, why would we be interested in the subject?) so they become a bit repetitive.<br />Still, due to it's bucking-the-convention theme, diversity of topics, and Posner's obvious flair with the pen, the second half is entertaining, just not so informative. You can still get your moneys worth out of this one though. If you find the second half not to taste, you can compensate by reading the first half twice! I'm sure it's just as engrossing the second tiime 'round.o anyone else. In his chapter on social satire, the discussion is EXCLUSIVELY on Orwell's 1984 and Huxley's Brave New World. While his examples are ammusing, most of us are familiar with the careers of those on which he speaks (if not, why would we be interested in the subject?) so they become a bit repetitive. <br />Still, due to it's bucking-the-convention theme, diversity of topics, and Posner's obvious flair with the pen, the second half is entertaining, just not so informative. You can still get your moneys worth out of this one though. If you find the second half not to taste, you can compensate by reading the first half twice! I'm sure it's just as engrossing the second tiime 'round.	2002-03-17
US	42520512	R1Z30DKJR9PLS5	1555530818	896668040	Interpreting The Constitution: The Debate Over Original Intent	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Pretty good introduction but not very thorough.	Although this book might be somewhat exacting to the lay-reader, this book is much less academic than it could be. The format was great, the first three essays by Meese, Brennan and Graglia (awh hell! Throw in Rakove's introduction) starts us off very well, well acquainting the reader with the debate. <br />We then move to \\"The public debate,\\" which takes the 'schools' and puts them into current context, \\"historical perspectives\\" putting the issue into historical context, and finally, \\"normative issues\\" which outlays (albeit somewhat timidly) the competing philosophies of Original Intent and Judicial Activism. Overall, as with all essay compilations, some essays are better than others. Bork, Rakove, Brest, Brennan and Meese steal the show but the others provide a great supporting cast.<br />Two complaints. First, the book leaves two critical views unexplored. First, judicial pragmatism, as outlayed by O.W. Holmes and Richard Posner, and Textualism, as exemplified by Antonin Scalia. Both are relatively small schools carrying comparitively little weight in the academic community but neither should be ignored. After all, both have contributed strongly to public debate, which is what this book is supposed to capture.<br />Second, as mentioned by the reviewer below, the book is unusually cursory. Besides Borks \\"Neutral Principles\\", the book pays little attention to methodology, focusing all it's attention on cultural context. For methodology, read Dworkin's \\"Law's Empire\\" and Bork's \\"Tempting of America.\\" <br />Still, I give it four stars. As an introduction for pre-law students and the lay-person with intellectual stamina, it's the best I know of; Well laid out, good essays, and extremely balanced. Reccomended, but as nothing more than an introducton!	2002-03-15
US	42520512	RXB8Z9MKDVIGE	0195143175	249858648	The Implosion of American Federalism	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Great thesis, good argument, muddled ending.	In this book, Mr. Nagel explores an underappreciated theme; the increasing centralization of government authority ion the U.S. He attributes this to a few things; America's demand for the 'quick-fix' of the law, myths that our government was created by 'the people of America' instead of 'The people of the United States of America,' even the supreme courts fear of 'rocking the boat,' skirting around issues like abortion for fear of disturbing 'national unity.'<br />Mr. Nagel backs his thesis up beautifully in this crystal-clear written book, using everything from the supreme court stepping into state business, calling a state-wide attempt to ammend Colorado's constitution 'unreasonable' to the virtual consensus amongst constitutional law intellectuals to argue vehemently for 'nationalism.'<br /> As I said this book is crystal clear and as easy to read as a book like this can be. My only complaint is that the last few chapters are muddled and rushed. His point (so far as I understand it) is to draw attention to the phenomenon of celebrity as assuaging our need for centralization by increasing our isolation from our actual neighbors, thus making us more dependent on a far-off government. This theory is not bad in itself; The problem is that it just doesn't fit with the legal arguments made in the first six chapters of the book. The last two chapters beat the hell out of the Clinton/Lewinsky scandal as an example of this and what he calls the 'Yale theory,' which is basically legalese used only to disguise lies. While this is certainly what Clinton did (and Clinton is the hallmark of political celebrity) again, this doesn't fit with the rest of the book. All in all though, the great writing, contreversial, thought-extrapolating theory and well argued case make this a pretty good book!	2002-03-14
US	42520512	R3UG0TFNXORAMC	0684843374	512456507	The Tempting of America	Books	5	18	21	N	N	An Earth-Shattering Work of Common sense!!	It's hard to imagine a neutral opinion about Robert Bork. Mostly, he is exalted or dismissed because of supposed political views he holds. Liberals dispise his 'anti-abortion' record and conservatives cheer his 'pro-religion' stance. For the record, he is a conservative libertarian (if there really is such a thing) but those who are looking for political argument will find none here.<BR>     In fact, he admirably restrains with a capital 'R' from political discussion in this book. Instead, he outlays his judicial philosophy of 'original intent'; quite simply, the judge as an extention of a law as seen by its original legislators. Unfortunately, this leads to some results that make modern day liberals cringe. Abortion, private discrimination and the like are nowhere in the constitution thus becoming state and personal issues under amendment X (how many people really pay attention to that amendment anyhow?). Despite these results, Bork insists on judicial neutrality aware that the legislature is the ONLY branch that should have their eye on results. The judiciary simply takes the WRITTEN law and upholds it.<BR>     The only thing I have a problem with is that sometimes Bork takes a strict textual approach and sometimes not, For example, his view of the 'equal protection' clause as a procedural, not a substantive issue relies strictly on the text of the fourteenth amendment. It would stand to reason that his first amendment view should also rely on text but 'Congress shall make no law..' apparently wasn't what the founders really meant after all. <BR>     For those not schooled in the current debate over various methods of constitutional interpretation, I would read Jack Rakove's &quot;Interpreting the Constitution&quot; and maybe Antonin Scalia's &quot;Matter of interpretation&quot; first as more views are given than in this book. Again, I stress, if you are looking for Bork's assertion of political views, THIS IS NOT THE BOOK!! Read his other one.	2002-02-21
US	42520512	R1MGIG6GHRY9EH	0879754109	949405434	The Paradoxes of Freedom (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Serious scholarship on American judiciary.	As a lover of American law and a 'court-watcher', this title hooked me in immediately.  Trying to find the balance between maximum democracy and learned aristocracy has always been a struggle so the main thesis should come as no suprise.  Our constitution has rough edges. What is suprising is Hook's diagnosis.<br />The first thing Hook does is to lambaste those who believe in absolute rights.  The first and fifth amendment have clashed.  The first amendment can even clash against itself and when these happen, one right must yield to the other.  The bill of rights offers us no roadmap in how to decide this so Mr. Hook reaches for the first available solution- that of utilitarianism. I've always been skeptical of 'The greatest good for the greatest number. All others get screwed.' but sometimes it is unavoidable. Hook still seems too eager to use this 'quick-fix' to resolve the issue.<br />Next, he goes on to textualism in the constitution. Like it or not, there is no text that conveys with ABSOLUTE CERTAINTY what it's author meant.  Our constitution comes close. 'Congress shall make no law respecting the establishment of religion,' seems pretty clear on the surface but what constitutes a religion, is it a pre-existing establishment congress may not respect or simply their own establishment, and does this imply that congress may offer 'respect' to many religions thereby avoiding the problem by not showing preference to only one?  Whew! Difficult stuff. At some point (godels proof), we have to rely on someone's interpretation.  Who better than the supreme court? Here, the only skepticism I have is Hook's use of the 'Bork Method' of trying to figure out what the founders- He uses Jefferson and Madison- meant by quoting their personal letters.  I know that Hook realizes there was more than two people's intentions, but you'd never think it.<BR>The point of disagreement I have with Mr. Hook is on judicial review. He's right, it's not authorized by the constitution, merelyimplied.  But there are two extremes.  One is congress as the final arbiter of which laws are constitutional an which aren't, or the courts could do it.  Mr. Hook seems to trust the congress more than the courts.  He does not recognize that the danger in democracy is that the people are generally short-sighted and are not likely to read the constitution closely (how many of your friends can name the first ten amendments?). The congress, being, through elections, directly accountable to the people, may not do what is in the best interest of the constitution if it will not help them get re-elected.  With the supreme court there is not this difficulty, but another.  They are not at all accountable to the people having been appointed for life. The only check on them is that they can only rule on cases brought to them (they must adhere to jurisdiction) but I'd rather the justices (who'se job it is to read the constitution) be safeguarding congress than congress do it themselves. We can either trust Scalia and Ginsburg or Helmes and Daschale.  The choice is obvious. The tentative compromise- You'll have to read the book to find out- Hook offers is brilliant so in a round-about way, I agree with him again.<br />For such an exacting subject, the author must be excused for a little pedantry. This is difficult stuff, but the book is short and if you're into American law and judiciary, you'll not be able to put this one down!!	2002-01-14
US	42520512	R18GMG0UQY0ISV	0060915226	857677473	Democracy in America	Books	5	102	111	N	N	Refreshingly open-minded study!!	De Tocqueville was an amazing man who posessed amazing insight into the workings (and not-workings) of American society.  One only laments the fact that he was not a middle caste American politician arguing amongst great minds during the Constitutional conventions.  Then again, we are equally lucky of the fact that he was a curious Frenchman of the leisure class who happened to be passing through.  This is what gives de Tocqueville the ability to refrain from emotionalism and give us an outsiders view of what makes America good, bad and just plain different.<br />  See, de tocqueville recognizes, as did our founders, that liberty and democracy are key ingredients to a healthy society.  On the other hand, he points out that too much freedom or democracy lead to lazy, public-opinion driven conformity, over-emphasis on materialism and restlessness.  Another contradiction de tocqueville points out is that although self-government is generally a good idea, there are times when an all powerful aristocracy is just more efficient.  He can see all sides.<br />  The best part then is that de Tocqueville doesn't come to any final conclusion.  He just observes and reports on America's inner workings as seen by an aristocratic Frenchman.<br /><br />  A few reccomendations to the de tocqueville virgins.  First, as this is the unabridged, it may be advised to read the first book, pause to read something else, then read the second book.  I read it straight through and found that not only would I have benefited from reflection, but much of the second book is a rehash the first.  Second, keep in mind during the second book that the word 'democracy' is also de tocqueville's word for 'capitalism'.  The word 'capitalism' would be introduced only years later by one Karl Marx.  So when de tocqueville says that democracy increases industriousness, what the reader should hear is that capitalism increases industriousness.  This in itself is a brilliant observation by de tocqueville.  Democracy and capitalism really are the same thing, different scale.  The producer, like the political candidate, cater to the consumer or the voter.  Both systems allow the individual to choose the goods and services he wants and reject those he doesn't.  This is why one may also want to read 'Wealth of Nations' with this book.<br />  The only other thing I can tell the reader before he or she embarks on a fascinating reading adventure is to keep in mind why de tocqueville wrote the book.  He intended it to be read by the french who were not familiar with or had misconceptions about America.  Of course, it provides contemporary America with an amazing historical survey.  Like the introductory exclamation to MTV's 'Diary' show says, &quot;You think you know, but you have no idea&quot;.le.  Democracy and capitalism really are the same thing, different scale.  The producer, like the political candidate, cater to the consumer or the voter.  Both systems allow the individual to choose the goods and services he wants and reject those he doesn't.  This is why one may also want to read 'Wealth of Nations' with this book.<br />      The only other thing I can tell the reader before he or she embarks on a fascinating reading adventure is to keep in mind why de tocqueville wrote the book.  He intended it to be read by the french who were not familiar with or had misconceptions about America.  Of course, it provides contemporary America with an amazing historical survey.  Like the introductory exclamation to MTV's 'Diary' show says, &quot;You think you know, but you have no idea&quot;.	2002-01-09
US	42520512	R4YTHF5ULNCU1	0140283560	516193414	Closed Chambers: The Rise, Fall, and Future of the Modern Supreme Court	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Good explanation of an often ignored institution.	Mr. Lazarus has done the impossible.  He has taken easily the most complicated and most misunderstood of our governmental institutions and wrote a book giving the layreader access to it's inner-workings.  Yes, you will have to think.  It's no bed time reading, but it's much easier to follow than Rehnquist's 'The Supreme Court' and much less bitter than Iron's 'Peoples History'.<br />      Despite the reviewer below me's warnings, Mr. Lazarus is very fair in his treatment of the issues (abortion, flag burning, racism).  For the record, he is liberal, but he admits it from the outset and does a great job making it obvious when his opinion is being given as opposed to fact.  The reviewer below me thinks that the author has an inexcusable liberal bias, but I suspect it's just the reviewer's over-conservative bias that is to blame.  Yes, he points out justices flaws, but that's no reason to accuse him of bias.  Heck, if I had to guess, I'd say the justice Mr. Lazarus has the most respect for was my favorite justice, Scalia (just in case the reader below thinks I'm a liberal).<br />     No matter where you stand, it's obvious from the outset that Mr. Lazarus has a profound respect for the institution and although he points out certain flaws in their omnipotence (really the only unchecked institution in our government), he gives us many reasons to respect and admire the court.  Wonderful job.  Now BUY THE BOOK!!	2002-01-04
US	42520512	R3CCHBTQ84T0ZK	0226038599	755005064	Darwin, Marx, Wagner: Critique of a Heritage	Books	3	18	29	N	N	Middle of the Raod Barzun	Before reading this book, I loved Darwin, disliked Marx and hated Wagner (how could you not!).  After this book, nothings changed except that I actually found myself defending all three against Barzun's onslaught.  <br />      This book can read two ways.  First as a biographical synopsis of the three writers and their cultural backdrop, and second, as an outdated diatribe.  The reader should ignore Barzun's polemic (?) and read it as a history.  This, of course, is Barzun's strength and he does not fail to meet high expectations.<br />      The polemic is of course outdated.  The whine over materialism taking the magic and mystery out of life has been rehashed too many times.  He is especially hard on Darwin, who he seems to think can be blamed for Herbert Spencer.  <br />      Read the book anyway.  Not only is the writing superb, the point of view is interesting and if anything it will challenge you.  Though not an easy one, it's terser than most authors could do given the subjects.	2002-01-03
US	42520512	R1OH8IA364N6KJ	0743205189	227144406	Kaplan Word power, Second Edition: Empower Yourself! 750 Words for the Real World (Kaplan Power Books)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Great book, but you'll only get out what you put in.	After reading both this and Princeton Review's Word Smart to prepare for the GRE, this book is hands down the better book.  The layout is much easier, the approach more fun and most importantly, the words covered here -at least in my experience- represented the GRE better.<br />Another handy thing is that the sections are organized into degrees of difficulty.  This combined with the fact that 'frequent test words' are marked by a thunderbolt next to them helps you maximize your study time. <br />That having been said, you still get out what you put in.  There's no way around it.  GRE verbal is about memorization.  Here's a strategy that I used to make the process easier and more fun.  It can be applied to any vocabulary book<br />After one chapter, write down the words you had any trouble with on flash cards with definitions on the back, making sure to put the definitions in your words, not the books.  As the chapters progress, shuffle the new flash cards in with the old and review them twice a day.<br />In addition keep a notebook and after each chapter write down all the words on the top of a new page.  Below, create a paragraph (a story, essay etc.) using all the words in the chapter.  At the end of each section of the book, write a new story or essay using only the words you remember.<br />A lot of work?  Not really, considering it will be a lot harder to simply memorize from rote.  And it will pay off come GRE time.	2001-12-29
US	42520512	R1EDBHDX3F0XR8	0465020755	798043841	Ethnic America: A History	Books	5	60	70	N	N	Wonderful overview by an awe-inspiring mind!	I wish all books could be like this one.  To be sure, Sowell does have an ideology of sorts (being a small 'l' libertarian) but the facts are legitimately objective.  One gets facts and stats first and only later the concluding opinion.  <BR>Nowadays, it is easy to label any 'compartmentalized' ethnic history as racist.  After all, we are all equal right?  Sowell argues albeit indirectly that equality exists in a legal sense, but that ethnic groups have undeniable differences.  Sowell does not present this as a positive or negative.  It just is, and as with any generalization, there are numerous exceptions.<BR>I'm Scottish and Irish.  I guess if I was a modern liberal, I would've taken offense to his historical observation that the irish are unusually hot-tempered and have not through history put a huge value on education.  The problem is that history shows it to be true.  The liberal mistake is to think that a generalization of any kind must be taken personally (ie: because the irish through history have been hot-tempered and because I'm irish, Mr. Sowell must be implying that I have a bad temper.)  Mr. Sowell means nothing of the kind.  The beauty of equality under law is that generalizations do not apply.  This is the problem with liberal policy.  Affirmitive action and quotas are based on generalizations (something liberals say they avoid).  The generalization is that minority group A can not succeed without the quota, or that all people save for minority group A, have a predisposition against minority group A.    <BR>So the beauty of this book lies in it's objectivity.  Mr. Sowell shows history as it is.  No idealism.  No opinion on how things ought to be, disguised as fact. Simply a real glimpse at the history of ethnic America.  Hooray for America!	2001-12-09
US	42520512	R2FQZYN2I3V7B3	0931580587	4895098	Ain't Nobody's Business If You Do: The Absurdity of Consensual Crimes in a Free Society	Books	2	12	27	N	N	Love the concepts.  Too bad McWilliams had to write it!	First, I am right wing libertarian who is in the strongest sympathy with every idea in the book.  The low rating is because of bad writing.<BR>When I bought the book, I hoped to hear an eloquent, well stated, and somewhat objective argument.  I couldn't have been more wrong.  It was opinion after opinion after hotheaded opinion.  The facts were a bit less than reliable and even the good ones were interspersed with angrily stated opinion statements.  Of course, as anyone who does research knows when you present a statistic (no matter how legitimate) into a militant opinion statement, the statistic loses a degree of credibility.  If Thomas Sowell or Milton Friedman had written this book, it would've had much more impact.<BR>McWilliams still earns two stars for his brevity.  It does take courage to suggest that prostitution, gambling, polygamy, heroin and assisted suicide should be legal.  It makes the speaker look callous.  What about our children?  The addicts?  Our women?  The mentally ill?  How can we respond to those concerns and without sounding cold?  Therein lies the problem.<BR>McWilliams does give us good answers and does provide strong statistics.  This is the best way to respond.  It's hard to argue with numbers.  It is, though, easy to argue with hotheads and McWilliams fits that bill perfectly.  So in the end, although he gets the arguments right, he provides the 'moral majority' with the ammunition they so count on.  They can simply keep writing us off as hotheads and kooks instead of dealing legitimately with the issues at hand.	2001-12-09
US	42520512	RSKR463IL4BU	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Good intro, but to whom?	I read this book about a year ago and have since loaned it to a friend.  Needless to say, I've not seen it again.  I wasn't planning on writing a review, but in reading others reviews, maybe I should.<BR>     I liked the book a great deal.  Like others point out, there's nothing new here but it will provide those new to the issue with a user-friendly resource.  The book didn't come off sounding too angry or condescending as most books on the subject do (I have in mind particularly Russel's &quot;Why I'm not a christian&quot;).<BR>     The problem with books like these (as the 'Junk' one star review shows us) is that it will appeal to two groups of people.  First, the militant atheists (a notoriously angry bunch).  This group will read the book as a release; a way to laugh at the rediculousness of faith.  The second group that will read it (the 'Junk' review) are the Falwell-style religious zelouts (another notoriously angry bunch).  They will read it as incontravertable proof that atheists are over-intellectual and evil.  Both groups, of course, have their minds made up before page 1.<BR>     So the problem is this.  I think the book is intended for those who are new to the subject and may be struggling with issues of faith vs. reason.  Are they compatible?  How can I know god doesn't exist?  What does it mean not to believe?  This group will quickly find itself lost and likely put off by the aforementioned angry groups.  They may just give up on the issue altogether. I know people who have done exactly this for exactly this reason.  They see Tim LaHaye in one camp and the Richard Dawkins in the other, both flailing their arms about and shouting and namecalling like schoolchildren   Whew!  What a choice, right?<BR>     So the missing star is not due to the content of the book, which is well organized, easily understandable and most importantly not as hostile towards faith as many others on the subject.  I give the book four stars because as evident by the below reiviews, this book might offer therapy to two angry groups, but it will not change anyones mind.	2001-12-09
US	42520512	R3NC4P0A225MKL	0913966673	879300805	Counter Revolution of Science	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Shows the full depth of Hayek	Too often, Hayek is not given enough credit.  Too many people see him as merely a critic of socialism and defender of libertarianism (not that there's anything wrong with that).  But Hayek was a brilliant social philosopher too and this book is Hayek at his best.<br />Unfortunately, this book begs to be misunderstood.  I fear that people will read the second section before the first (if they read the first at all), and frankly, I could've done without the second.  <br />At base, this book is not a critique on planning.  It is a philosophical explanation of how we gain and use knowledge in the natural and social sciences.  After Hayek lays out what he feels are mistakes in the methods of social science (psychologism, holism, scientism), he examines the mistakes thinkers have made that brought them to these -isms.  Then and only then does he offer a critique of planning but ONE WILL NOT UNDERSTAND IN FULL THE SECOND SECTION WITHOUT HAVEING READ AND ABSORBED THE IDEAS IN THE FIRST!  One may even want to read Popper's 'The Poverty of Historicism' before or with this book.<BR>In closing, if you're looking for a critique on planning and socialism, read 'The Road To Serfdom' or 'Individualism and Economic Order', but if you want a great critique of science (social as well as natural) and it's current methods, read this one WITH CARE!	2001-11-26
US	42520512	R3KDUEBH62TYE	0060935936	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	3	14	25	N	N	Too limited in scope.  Read Thomas Sowell first.	This book is meant to infuriate, enrage, engage and bother us.  I, for one, hope it succeeds.  I am always impressed whenever I see a black intellectual of stature challenge the status quo.  <br />The biggest problem I had this book had more to do with my expectations than anything.  I'd just read Sowell's &quot;Ethnic America&quot; and I hoped that this book would be similar.  It left me wanting.  Sowell contained facts and statistic, McWhorter, opinions.  Sowell was emotionally detatched and objective, McWhorter left me feeling as if he looked down on the people he wrote about.  <br />The other problem is that I found myself saying &quot;Yeah, but white, asian, puerto rican, latino kids.  They all have these problems too&quot;.   We've all seen Jerry Springer.  It's not just one racial group, it's an entire generation.  All in all though, it's a good book.  Just don't forget to back it up with Thomas Sowell, and if you liked this book, read MacDonald's &quot;The Burden of Bad Ideas.&quot;	2001-11-12
US	42520512	R1FWB79W8XY9YM	0375750363	813192898	Confessions of a Philosopher: A Personal Journey Through Western Philosophy from Plato to Popper (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Obsessively readable!	I am a soon-to-be master's student in the Humanities and I've always been somewhat of an ameteur philosopher.  People have always snickered politely when I say this; they never understood how philosophy could be read 'for pleasure'.  I wish they'd have read this book.  <br />Magee has written an eminently readable and rather addicting book that is halfway between a survey course and a memoir. The chapter on Magee's midlife crisis was artfully done and makes all of us who've thought so deeply about death and the 'frivolity' of life feel, well, vindicated.  <br />Magee's is an astute observer of academia.  After looking into teaching, I've come away with some of the same impressions and it's refreshing to hear someone who's not afraid to voice them. <br />The only complaint I have is that Mr. Magee comes off as boastfull and arrogant at times, especially when talking about early political aspirations and his T.V. show.  At times I found myself just wanting to return to his recollections of grappling with particular issues or philosophers. Very good read, nonetheless.<br />Quick Note:  As a result of things said in chapter 12 of this book, a former assistant of Bertrand Russel successfully sued Bryan Magee for libel.  Mr. Magee alledgedly speculated as to Mr. Schoenmann's involvement with the CIA.  The passage in question is being removed from future printings of the book.  If I might speak in Mr. Magee's defence, he was only relaying other peoples speculations, never making his own.  Anyway, you get the picture.  This stuff is juicy!	2001-11-12
US	42520512	R39YEL58DHXW74	0679417508	364473979	The Bostonians	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A novel to leave you in thought.	First off, this is a delicious novel! What's amazing is that to me at least, is that it has no heroes. I despised Olive Chancellor (A woman who appears selfless on the surface) and equally did not care for Basil Ransom (who has just as many control 'issues' as Olive). I guess I just felt sorry for Verena, the woman Olive and Basil 'fight' over. Trust me though, despite the lack of heroes, you'll want to keep reading. <BR>And if you want a novel you don't have to think about, this (and Henry James) is NOT for you. But if you want characters that are breathtakinly complex and inviting (though valaverous) prose, than King James is your man. I also liked the review below who stated that if you love the quick action of T.V, you won't like this book much. Of course I'd say turn of the T.V and give it a try anyway.	2001-10-03
