US	42540607	R3EPJROXAY55TP	1565845927	311854397	False Dawn: The Delusions of Global Capitalism	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Much more than McWorld-ization - A political perspective	This is a very well written book that brings out a political perspective on Globalization, Free Trade and its impact/consequences. <br />Unlike most books which run into conspiracy theories of Capitalism running amok and corporations driving covert agendas, this book instead takes a look at the political scenarios existing in various key countries &amp; the complex interplay between the political history of the state &amp; the impact of capitalism &amp; hence the very role of the State. After dissecting Britain &amp; the US, the author goes on to give very well researched examples from Russia and East Asian States - he covers the political history of each of these places &amp; clearly outlines how Capitalism morphs into a regional variant under different political systems and the consequences of this morphing.<br />The author powerfully argues how Capitalism &amp; Globalization are not delinked from the role of the State ... and debunks the myth of a single universal culture. The book ends on a dark note where it raises serious questions about the presence &amp; effectiveness of a Global governing body to handle the inadequacies of capitalism, driven by technological globalization.<br />Its not an easy book to read, and requires a good knowledge of political history (US/UK/Russia/Singapore/China/Japan) &amp; basic economics; but once finished, it is a definitive eye opener from a political perspective, on how the situation today has developed and what the future holds out.	2004-06-14
US	42540607	RN8XVFDCTRABC	0684868768	11617672	Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities, and Software	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good light reading	For those expecting some rigorous treatment of the subject and a comprehensive overview, this is not the book. But for those wishing to spend a few lazy hours reading up an interdisciplinary delight, this is a good pick. While the treatment of the subject is superficial and introductory, the language and style of writing is admittedly engrossing! The author SJ, manages to inflect his prose with biting sarcasm or simply plain humor at the just the right places, to keep one turning one page onto another. <br />Another very good element in this book is the numerous references and potential reading lists that one can create. In covering as vast and 'disconnected' a realm of subjects as touted in its cover, SJ traverses a wide expanse of literary sources and is liberal in quoting them... which allows readers with an interest in specific minutiae to explore their subject that bit deeper. To that extent, this book serves as a wonderfully easy to read primer on the subject of emergence; it can probably be likened to Universality by Mark Ward.... without going into the rigorous depths of Chaos (Gleick), and yet serving up something where one is left with numerous trails of thought, each with its own army of books to explore and pursue.	2004-02-10
US	42540607	RJ596EPFJJMP0	0788169491	394739428	Odyssey: Pepsi to Apple...a Journey of Adventure, Ideas & the Future	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Somewhere in between alright!	It is hard to not want to read a book about how the founder of Apple was sacked by the guy he brought in himself, to lead the company. And that is precisely what the first part of the book is about. In a tale of roaring passion and excitement, we walk through pages in almost quivering excitement as we read about the stony-mahagony culture of Pepsi, the young irreverent west coast start-ups, the passion and idealism of youth, the quest for making a difference to the world, the heady mix of million dollar stock options and unruly aesthetic genius... and how it all culminated at the altar of capitalistic zeal and resulted in Steve Jobs being sacked by John Sculley and the board.<br />The second half of the book though, takes a downspin. From the exciting tale of the first half, where John Sculley's fleshing out his character is seen as contributing to the intrigue of the story, the second part of the book is more of trumpet-blowing. It deals with how Sculley and his team 'rescued' Apple and converted it to the company it is today. As such, the book is also made a little vexatious with Sculley's sermons of management that are intervowen between chapters.<br />Reco : Read the first half, skim through second half... But definitely worth reading if you're interested in the human side of business dealings!	2004-02-10
US	42540607	RRI5NV6JD17WE	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	4	8	11	N	N	"Management books are all about soppy tales of success? - Break that rule!!"	Thats the first rule I broke and picked up this book to read. One of the interesting aspects of this book is the writing style. Focused and clear, each section usually begins with approaches to situations followed by 'conventional' managers, which has the reader usually vigorously agreeing to. And immediately the book shows how great managers handle the exact same issues differently. In doing so, the book acts as a nice little mirror we hold up to ourselves and quietly contemplate our own styles and management methods.    While the book does seem like a covert sales pitch for Gallup's methodology, the learnings and experiences shared are invaluable to a persons' understanding of herself and her style of operating. The authors dont force their point of view, rather they let the reader gently arrive at a perspective that meshes in harmoniously with her existing style.    This is one of those books which helps reformat the hard-disk of your brain, and leave it altered to view reality anew. Definitely worth a read... and best used by sharing the book with your reportees!	2004-01-22
US	42540607	R1FK0NR7IRMSQ7	0679735666	333175733	A Natural History of the Senses	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Delightful prose and broad brush strokes of wonder!	DA has a wonderful writing style that makes reading her book a sensory pleasure in its own. At the risk of sounding sexist, it must be mentioned that the power of this book lies in the wonderfully delicate and detailed descriptions of the various senses and their experiences. While DA has chosen a subject that is reasonably biological, it is her descriptive flair for the minutiae, her almost artistic way of writing and her sense of joy and wonder which she conveys; all make this book a wonderfully engrossing tale about our sense organs. <br />While DA succeeds at opening our eyes (and ears, nose.... etc) to the world around us, perhaps the only shortcoming of the book lies in creating expectations in the reader of a rigorous treatment in the biological/evolutionary development of the sense organs. The reader seeking such a detailed analysis of the senses and their development would be served better by looking elsewhere. However, this book is a tasty little morsel and food for thought.<br />Definitely worth a read.	2003-10-29
US	42540607	R3EQQ8RRM6J6Y9	0375760393	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Tripped out experience!!	Reading this book is like taking a little journey, and credit for this goes to the wonderful writing style and brilliant sequencing of narratives by the writer. The book at a basic level aims to explore the close interplay of humanity and four different botanical elements, and attempts to show the influence that this interplay has had on the flow of history.<br />Starting with the tale of Johnny Appleseed set in a languorous backdrop, the book slowly edges forward to the tale of the Tulip ... set in the backdrop of a Europe that was beginning to emerge as a major sea-faring continent with amazing adventurers. The book then makes a silent detour into the taboo plant of Marijuana (for the serious/ex- users of weed, the descriptions of the experiences and the scientific analysis of the subject is ...simply Mind Blowing). Following this section and having set the reader on a contemplative path, the book now races to a climactic finish with a brilliant discussion on the issues regarding genetically modified crops and their socio-econo-political consequences.<br />MP is a writer par excellence, and this makes the book a wonderful read. The book is almost like a little rivulet, that goes on to become a roaring river, which calms down on its final leg to the sea... and then merges with the vast ocean that is limitless and boundless. And while doing so, MP touches subjects as diverse as history, geography, politics, economics and of course... botany!	2003-10-29
US	42540607	R3BDY3MVN3CPA4	019514855X	195744900	The Nature of Design: Ecology, Culture, and Human Intention	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Quo Vadis...	One needn't read the blurb to know that DO is a professor. The writing style, the subject chosen and the way it has been treated, the examples given... all point towards a very advanced mind! The power of this book lies in the relentless power of the ideology and the prose to raise questions in the mind of the reader, and forcing the reader to reconsider some of his/her own beliefs and viewpoints.<br />The professor makes this journey even more enjoyable through his deliciously witty sarcasms and digs at the capitalistic society of today and its spin-doctors of advertising. Through numerous examples and penetrating questions, the writer clearly supports his point of view that humanity today is rushing headlong into the future, with a blind reliance on science and technology/forms of government/economic theories... and this faith he claims, seems to mirror an almost religious fervor. The writer clearly illustrates how humanity is increasingly trading its unknown future for short term gains of a few in positions of power to exploit those gains.<br />The book deals with the subject of designing the future with Nature in mind, and speaks of the nature of design. Quite a heavy book in terms of the ideas, though the writing is wonderfully simple and straightforward. But aren't the clearest minds with the most elegant and terse prose, the hardest to comprehend? Simply a brilliant book that is a must read, and replete with a wonderfully diverse reference list at the end.	2003-10-29
US	42540607	R2FRJQRM1C0EQS	0140281835	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Think again	LS is quite revolutionary in his ideas and thinking, and complements this with an excellent writing style that puts him perhaps, somewhere in the league of writers such as Will Durant, those rare species of people gifted with the ability to convert history into an engrossing tale.<br />Where LS differs though, and significantly, is that he becomes an active observer of history, viewing it through the lenses of an idea, the idea itself being that the spread of alphabetic literacy amongst peoples has always resulted in a decline of the rights and status of women. Sounds bold? This is perhaps the lesser of controversial statements he makes, and the book races from ancient Sumerian civilizations to the present day, with numerous bold hypotheses and interpretations of facts available. Credit goes to the author for frequently pointing out his hypotheses by terms such as \\"I would like to propose that...\\", and the reader will come across yet another startling viewpoint backed by selected examples. In fact some of LS's viewpoints are so outrageously unconventional, that ones' own defense mechanism of 'credibility' kicks in, and refuses to question beliefs we hold so dear and true. <br />But therein lies the power of this book, and it arises from the brilliant story-telling which makes the book extremely difficult to put down, once begun. A quick view of the References at the end of the book shows clearly that LS has found his facts in not just feminist literature, but even textbooks and classics such as \\"The structure of Myth\\", by Claude Levi-Strauss. The reader needn't agree with LS throughout the book, but the book's brilliance lies in showing the ability and scope needed to reinterpret history with powerful eloquence, and LS succeeds well at that. <br />Not recommended for people with strong religious beliefs. Highly recommended for readers interested in history, feminism and for non-conventional thinkers, to name a few!!	2003-06-04
US	42540607	R270O9VAQOV8NQ	0140196013	302291051	The Alphabet Versus the Goddess: The Conflict Between Word and Image (Compass)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	�Think again� &quot;	LS is quite revolutionary in his ideas and thinking, and complements this with an excellent writing style that puts him perhaps, somewhere in the league of writers such as Will Durant, those rare species of people gifted with the ability to convert history into an engrossing tale.<br />Where LS differs though, and significantly, is that he becomes an active observer of history, viewing it through the lenses of an idea, the idea itself being that the spread of alphabetic literacy amongst peoples has always resulted in a decline of the rights and status of women. Sounds bold? This is perhaps the lesser of controversial statements he makes, and the book races from ancient Sumerian civilizations to the present day, with numerous bold hypotheses and interpretations of facts available. Credit goes to the author for frequently pointing out his hypotheses by terms such as \\"I would like to propose that...\\", and the reader will come across yet another startling viewpoint backed by selected examples. In fact some of LS's viewpoints are so outrageously unconventional, that ones' own defense mechanism of `credibility' kicks in, and refuses to question beliefs we hold so dear and true. <br />But therein lies the power of this book, and it arises from the brilliant story-telling which makes the book extremely difficult to put down, once begun. A quick view of the References at the end of the book shows clearly that LS has found his facts in not just feminist literature, but even textbooks and classics such as \\"The structure of Myth\\", by Claude Levi-Strauss. The reader needn't agree with LS throughout the book, but the book's brilliance lies in showing the ability and scope needed to reinterpret history with powerful eloquence, and LS succeeds well at that. <br />Not recommended for people with strong religious beliefs. Highly recommended for readers interested in history, feminism and for non-conventional thinkers, to name a few!!	2003-06-04
US	42540607	R1HBI3RRK0VVGI	0679768114	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	¿We, the living¿¿	This book is a definitive introduction to the issues surrounding our living in the ecosystem we call the Earth. It brings into focus, lesser known facts about the other components of this ecosystem, specifically our Flora and Fauna. It shows the various uses that these elements are, to mankind and hence underscores their importance to us as a species. The book is very well written and runs like a story, full of examples and narratives, and is a book that makes a good preliminary to Wilson's book - Biophilia<br />Having said all the above, this book also has some 'shortcomings', I use the word cautiously... to illustrate that these are not negatives, but rather choices exercised by the author. Wilson himself admits that this book focuses on Micro Fauna largely, and hence the case of conservation he builds up is specific to these; he doesn't really speak much about large animals except perhaps the Whale and Rhino. This book is neither too complex nor very elaborate in its examples nor too in depth in its subjects, if you're already familiar with conservation programs and their arguments, you wouldn't find much new material here... but for a lay person interested in knowing what the entire environment-movement is about, this is an excellent place to start.<br />Lastly, Wilson uses the method of economics to assign value to our ecosystem, thus aiming to beat the 'utilitarians' at their own game, which is one approach to conservationism. Renowned conservationists such as Richard Leakey though do not compeletely agree with this approach, and take a more moral approach to conversation. A brilliant book by Leakey on this subject needs mentioning - \\"The sixth extinction\\", which presents the alternative approach to Conservationism. Taken together, these books make an un-challengable case for us to do our part to make our world a better place for our future.	2003-06-04
US	42540607	R3RRCQA3AYYX9K	0380975289	602853146	Calendar: Humanity's Epic Struggle to Determine a True and Accurate Year	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Of dates, times, people and places...	There are a number of things I wish someone told me before I picked up this book, and here are some of them. This is NOT a book about the mathematics or the science behind the creation of the Calendar and the process of measuring time. Rather it is a long winded and one sided rambling history of the creation of the Gregorian Calendar in its present form. The book is too heavily European centric and Christian centric. It relegates all other histories of the measurement of time, such as the Mayans, the Indians, the Chinese, the Arabic etc to at most a chapter each. Further, the entire book is about the impact of the Church on the creation of the Calendar due to the need to fix Easter, and gives amiss to factors such as sea navigation, intercultural trade links etc, which were just as critical in the search for a universal time. Instead these are treated as anecdotes to illustrate the problems of a non-universal time, more as effects of changes made by the Church, rather than socio-cultural causes that led to the need for a Calendar.<br />In addition to all the above, the writing style makes the book a true chore to read. Filled with names, dates, names of towns and references to texts, paragraphs become extremely overloaded with junk information for anyone except the scholar interested in making chronological research notes. The other aspect that makes plain reading difficult is the frequently occurring capitals and years within paranthesis. A sample paragraph, picked almost at random is below.<br />\\"The bull itself was written in the fall of 1581, mostly by Pedro Chacon. On  20th October 1581 , he sent a draft from Turino to Cardinal Sirleto in Rome. Chacon then died a few days later, leaving the final version of the bull to be written by member Vincenzo di Lauri. Sirleto also dispatched Antionio Lilius, Aloysius's brother, to work with the pope's aides on the final bull at Mondragone, Gregory's favorite villa outside of   Rome  \\" <br />The good part of the book is that for someone unexposed to the frailties of time-measurement, this is definitely an eye opener in showing how recent the phenomenon of a universal time is. But even in the book being a non-scientific exposition, it falls far short of its own blurb which proudly announces the decision by Mao Zedong to accept the Gregorian Calendar as a seminal event, one which is treated in its entirety in a couple of paragraphs as compared to the entire book about the habits of monks and the \\"Ecclesiastical history of the English\\".Worth a read, not a buy though.	2003-05-26
US	42540607	R1P20TULV4X10Y	033039312X	884272967	Universality: The Underlying Theory Behind Life, the Universe and Everything	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The grand finale of a &quot;trilogy&quot;	Universality is a fitting finale to the lovers of the emerging sciences. While it isnt really part of a trilogy, for readers looking to travel the path of the fractal, this book is definitely the third and final, in a journey beginning with &quot;Chaos&quot; by James Gleick being the first, and &quot;Complexity&quot; by Mitchell Wardrop being the second.<br />The book is quite desultory and slow to begin with, in fact the action picks up briefly in the 26th page and then takes off from the 50th page. So stick with it. Much unlike its precursors however, Universality is less mathematical and abstruse and more easy to read. It covers a wide range of examples on systems displaying Universality and does well to throw light on the history of the theory's development to the current issues it is addressing.<br />A good book, definitely worth a read from your library.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	R3SJS1UIHX8ZUH	0679750312	660797631	The End of Education: Redefining the Value of School	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Of means and ends : Education redefined	The blurb of the book is interesting enough to make one want to pick it up. And when one does begin the voyage, one realizes immediately that the author isnt talking about the end of education in terms of its being finished, rather he is speaking of the Purpose of education. Once this distinction is made, Postman brilliantly argues about how all of today's educational initiatives in the US are more about the means, and hence do not address any root change in the learning process. He then goes on to categorically define the problems in the first part of the book, and his ideas quite almost leap out of the pages in the second part of the book as he boldly architects a probable scenario of the future of education, in terms of its driving purpose.<BR>In doing so, the author gives numerous examples to illustrate his points of view, while all the while admitting that the book is not an exhaustive list of ideas, rather an exhaustion of his mind! Quite a brilliantly written book that cannot but stop and make the reader think. It would be a very different world if every teacher in high school read this book and implemented just even a small part of it in their teaching and actions. In no ways a negative, it must be noted that Postman's religious beliefs and admiration for the US is thrown into sharp relief in his writings.<BR>Lastly, this book gave me 13 books and 7 authors as a potential list to read up on, the book is verily a rich source of ideas and allows the reader to make his own reading list to explore some of the ideas in depth and reach his/her own path.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	R13W2INA1QWKTO	0679762906	960681377	Being Digital	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Relevant and interesting	I've read this book about 3 years late! Yet its arguments are as exciting and relevant as they were 3 years ago. This book is NOT really about fancy visions of the future. Rather it is a hard hitting look at the suboptimal thinking and quick-fix utilization of todays technologies; instead of a truly revolutionary approach that is needed.<BR>A simple example is the authors lucid example of a doctor from the 19th Century walking into todays hospitals and being whammed by the advances. But the same cannot be said for a teacher of the 19th century walking into todays classrooms... except for the  syllabus. Similar examples abound in the fact that technologies of devices are changing only incrementally to accomodate the bandwidth revolution, but the change needed is a quantum leap, which we are not doing. The author does portray various visions of the future where the full effects of technology would be used, and is clear in pointing out that these are not idle impractical fantasies.<BR>Quite a very good book, and for those looking for a far more cohesive futuristic book bordering on Sci-Fi, a book well worth reading is &quot;Visions&quot; by Michio Kaku.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	RVLLT33A99L92	0684865246	55645872	Euclid's Window : The Story of Geometry from Parallel Lines to Hyperspace	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Euclid's Window	A good easy to read book which maps the history of the development of geometry right from euclid to Descartes to Gauss ... and finally to string theory. <br />There are some very good points about this book, which include the presentation of the original developments of geometry very clearly and in a very highly understandable manner. The book is also full of little trivia and delves cursorily into some of the aspects of the personalities behind the mathematics. But it flounders as it reaches string theory and becomes very abstract. Perhaps the author could have spent lesser time in the initial parts by cutting out some of the analogies he would draw with the charactors in the example bearing his childrens names.<br />Having said that, this is a good book and is worth a buy for the Maths lover. In terms of analogies, if you liked Eli Maors &quot;e The story of a number&quot;, Mlodinov will fit in well in his ease of development of a complex history.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	RMCKPIK2NCDTS	0300024096	211179683	The Origins of Knowledge and Imagination (The Mrs. Hepsa Ely Silliman Memorial Lectures Series)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	The shaper of minds : Mr. Bronowski	Bronowski at his glittering brilliance in this book, is the memory I carry at the end of reading it, filled with a warmth of understanding and a calmness of knowledge.<br />It is not easy to find someone as wonderfully coherent and structured and yet intelligent and powerful in ideology, and yet so simple and easy to understand by the lay reader. Bronowski's series of lecture presentations here attempts as he himself says, to complete what Kant set out to do... to create a philosophy of mankind that is based on man's perceptual tools of biology. In this task, Bronowski succeeds brilliantly. <br />Starting with vision, through hearing, through language itself... Bronowski builds up a picture of human thought and action like never before and the essays read like a thriller through our own minds and its origins. If Ascent of Man was groundbreaking, this book is breathtaking in its scope and parallel simplicity.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	R2QH1H9AY0N9O5	0679775471	930308284	Ka: Stories of the Mind and Gods of India	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Not a beginner book	Ka is well written and is a true pleasure to read. It brings out some of the lesser known mythological tales of India's heritage and is very narrative in its story telling, unlike many Indian authored books on the same subject, which are riddled with commentaries and sanskrit verses in between. This makes the book very readable indeed, which is an added benefit to some very enjoyable and enthralling tales.<BR>However, this is not a beginner book in Indian mythology. To make sense and perspective of the stories in this book, it is very useful to first have a clear idea of the present day view of many of these Gods and the rituals, and also understand India's heritage as being a mix of the Vedic Aryans and the Upanishadic Indians... or if you believe in the Aryan Invasion myth, the Vedic Aryans, period. <BR>This is a good book to read, but needs to have a pre-course work done to avoid drawing \\"incorrect\\" subjective judgments on Indian deities from this book alone.	2003-05-19
US	42540607	R1OTHGAOO8NYYZ	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Adventure story	This is an adventure tale bordering on a soap drama in reality,  with bitter politics and sheer ambition thrown in sharp relief by the author. What this book is NOT is a scientific exposition of the development of the theories behind the measurement of time and the Earth. The book breezes through the concepts of time measurement and instead focuses on the people, their personalities and the stories and tales that surround these lesser known and yet brilliant people, who have impacted the world with their force of ideas and passion.	2003-04-22
US	42540607	R1Z600URM4XI7B	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Mixed feelings	Friedman does well to elaborate on Globalization and its characteristics in this book and the book could be considered a primer into globalization. The writing style is easy and highly narrative with numerous examples/anecdotes/stories that cast the authors point in stone.<br />What I had expected was a more detailed analysis of causes and the potential impact of globalization from an econo-political+socio-cultural angle. Friedman instead gives the impression of one who is &quot;trying too hard&quot; as his own introduction sets the rather self-aggrandizing tone, in his desire to create a work of history. Hence he ends up creating terminologies for posterity which seem more for the authors' pride rather than the readers' understanding. The book is also filled with too much &quot;I&quot;, and hence ceases very soon to be an objective account. <br />To be fair to Friedman, he never claims to bring an objective account to the issue, though one would expect that of a journalist of his caliber... perhaps the book could be called &quot;my view of globalization&quot; rather than &quot;Understanding globalization&quot;. Friedman frequently assumes the tone of a preacher in the book, with his eloquence bordering on arrogance... when he boldly recommends what President Clinton should have said in his opening speech, towards the end of the book.<br />I like Friedman and am an ardent follower of his articles in the NYTimes, but I just feel that this book is too unabashedly American in its attitude - nothing wrong with that, just that I had felt that one would get a more independent perspective. But the book is wonderfully informative and is a definite primer to the globalization. A good sequel I can recommend to this book is &quot;Imperialist Globalization&quot; - a collection of 2 speeches by Fidel Castro, which would present the other end of the spectrum of emotions that Globalization raises.	2003-04-22
US	42540607	RKUNFED7DZE0R	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Adventure story	This is an adventure tale bordering on a soap drama in reality,  with bitter politics and sheer ambition thrown in sharp relief by the author. What this book is NOT is a scientific exposition of the development of the theories behind the measurement of time and the Earth. The book breezes through the concepts of time measurement and instead focuses on the people, their personalities and the stories and tales that surround these lesser known and yet brilliant people, who have impacted the world with their force of ideas and passion.	2003-04-22
US	42540607	R3DYPXULQJ5AD8	0915132370	354278856	The Dhammapada	Books	5	113	118	N	N	Buddhism defined	Another soothing gem by Easwaran. I had earlier read The Upanishads by the same author, and was inspired into further exploration of his writing. A few words on the author before the book is due here. Easwaran can definitely be counted as one of those individuals who has made a sincere and thorough attempt to understand numerous religions and draw out their common parallels and apply them to his life, in an almost saint-like manner. Easwaran influence on thought can be said to be similar to Parthasarathy's, another great writer more focused on Hinduism. It is in reading such authors, that we are left with an indelible impact on our psyche, and within a few weeks of regular reading, can see our daily lives transformed by the power of our own tranquil thinking.<br />In The Dhammapada, Easwaran now embarks on a similar voyage of peace and calm in the exploration of Buddhism, as he did with the Upanishads. The introduction of the book once again gives a brief backrgound into the life of Siddharta, the prince and charts his transformation into the Buddha, the &quot;one who is awake&quot;. The book then goes on to describe one of the fundamental &quot;religious-books&quot; of Buddhism, the Dhammapada and its teachings. The parallels with the Upanishadic teachings, the mystic sufis and the Sermon on the Mount is often illustrated, thus underlining Easwaran's belief of the unity of fundamental thought across religions. <br />Every two chapters are preceeded with an introduction to the concepts and principles enshrined in them, and hence makes reading and comprehension and indeed, personal thinking and evaluation that much more effective. Buddhism in the end, comes out as it should, another monumental religion based on very basic truths and grounded in infallible and extremely rigorous logic. The book is a pure delight to read and has an almost immediate impact on the reader's approach to life itself.<br />Incidentally, another wonderful book and religion on similar lines is&quot;The way of Zen&quot;, by Alan Watts, and I am out to procure it. This is supposed to describe the confluence of Taoism and Mahayana Buddhism to create the Zen. <br />Somewhere out there lies the truth, our own selves shining in the dark.	2003-03-26
US	42540607	R2WHIEBS78RUX0	0915132397	303272798	The Upanishads	Books	5	49	53	N	N	The Truth	Words fail me in my attempt to describe the book, perhaps it is best I describe the emotions I experienced, as I read this book. <br />The book captured my breath and concentration and I was unable to think of anything else till I finished the book. I took quite some time over a few days to finish it, simply because each page makes you think. There are books that hit you hard with the force of their ideas, and then there is this book... which gently caresses your mind as a wave would caress the shore, as our eyelashes caress our cheek when we blink. The book and its delivery is so gentle and calm, that my mind was immediately transported into the vivid imagery that EE creates, of a guru in a remote hut and his simple lifestyle and his disciples. EE strikes a chord when he points out the massive gamble that these disciples take, in deciding to pursue nothing but the Truth and sacrifice all else in its path. His writing gentle and kind, and one feels like a young boy in front of an affectionate father, the father doesnt seem to teach, but just seems to speak calmly, and one feels like listening.<BR>EE brings out the Upanishads for what they really are, an incredible advancement into the inquiry of Truth, using the principles of concentration and meditation, and the medium of story telling to pass down the wisdom of the ancients. I could not resist my tears as I read with joy of the tales of Yajnavalka, nor could I feel but astonished at the clarity of thought and the level of the discussion between Yama and Nachiketa.<br />I could go on, but there is little to say except that one should read this book. For those in search of additional readings, there is a book called &quot;The Vedas&quot;, which is an english collection of the discourses of the Head of the Kancheepuram Shankaracharya school. It's a tough read, to be read with pencil and paper, and perhaps committing to memory some of the terms... but it is the Definitive primer into the Vedas and India's true heritage.	2003-01-20
US	42540607	R36PSSC1KGBH10	1580910661	217391131	Dead Mars, Dying Earth	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Content differs from the title...	The book is ok in opening the mind to an idea and a relevant one, and raises a fundamental question all right... but that needed 10 crisp pages. Most of the book is desultory and digressive, with a forced storylike approach that seems almost artificial and is definitely distracting. The author also is bold enough to come with his baggage of biases, which is again often re-narrated, to a point where his patriotism, anti communism, anti Russia and Cold war references bring about a nausea; since it seems unrelated to the issue being raised.<br />The issue really raised is how Earth is dying with Global warming, and is probably going to end up like Mars. But the book veers with so many different digressions and irrelevant narrations... it gets lost. <br />This is not a book you should read, instead a good Asimov novel is a better bet.	2002-11-18
US	42540607	R1J2LHGA11GJNG	0801434998	179871316	Trading Territories: Mapping the Early Modern World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A hidden pearl	It was my fascination with maps that drew me to this book. After reading Hapgood's classic, I doubted that any other book could do justice to Map making and sea-faring, in the manner dealt with by Hapgood. <br />However, this book has put map-making, colonialism, Portugese adventurism and trade into one little fast paced book. The book is written in simple english and is extremely readable. Brotton has treated the book like a movie, and it begins with a tapestry in the amazing marriage of two countries' rulers... and then slowly travels back in time into the importance of the tapestry and the marriage. In doing so, he wonderfully charts out the importance of the voyages of the Portugese, the critical significance of maps as a means to establish ones' territorial rights, and the very fine relationship between cartographers and the rulers. <br />This book also does the task of smashing some of the myths of Islamic empires being &quot;barbarians&quot;, who did not invest in knowledge of the world. The book also integrates many different views and perspectives, and motives that drove the making of maps. <br />All in all, a very interesting and complete book, a little pearl of joy for its small size, and wonderfully glossy pages, and plethora of illustrations.<br />Read it even if you dont plan on buying it.	2002-08-01
US	42540607	RTW21426GE5ZW	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A powerful commentary	In light of the recent past and the oncoming future, this book seems prophetic. Especially given that Benjamin Barber (BB) is not speaking of the Islamic Jihad alone in this book. The book is a scholarly erudition on the state of global affairs today, and raises some very serious and pertinent questions, which are truly un-ignorable. <br />The central theme of the book is the interplay of the forces of tribalism/sectarianism and Capitalism; and how this interplay impacts democracy. BB has structured the book wonderfully - The first part of introduces the concept of McWorld. Its easy to read and the language used is acerbic and pointingly sarcastic at times, which makes it a very delicious read to start with. But nothing prepared me at least for the sudden explosion of ideas in the second part, where its as if BB says \\"enough of banter, now lets get serious\\" - and here is where the book translates from a hip-hop criticism of Capitalism to a very powerful dissection of political states and the developments thereafter.<br />BB analyzes the various elements and forces and features, of what he calls Jihad; in various parts of the world. In doing so he shows what forces create Jihad, and the inextricable link between Jihad and democracy on the one hand; and Capitalism on the other. The third and final part of the book is the actual commentary where BB leaves you blitzkreiged with the force and thrust of his ideas, which I shall be humble enough to not try and summarize here!<br />This book is definitely worth a buy. I've just added it to my wish list and hope someone gifts it to me !! But seriously, do read this book - It's much more than Islamic women drinking Pepsi while wearing a Burkha !!!	2002-06-27
US	42540607	RQ9FXFEBJBN21	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	5	10	14	N	N	A powerful commentary	In light of the recent past and the oncoming future, this book seems prophetic. Especially given that Benjamin Barber (BB) is not speaking of the Islamic Jihad alone in this book. The book is a scholarly erudition on the state of global affairs today, and raises some very serious and pertinent questions, which are truly un-ignorable. <br />The central theme of the book is the interplay of the forces of tribalism/sectarianism and Capitalism; and how this interplay impacts democracy. BB has structured the book wonderfully - The first part of introduces the concept of McWorld. Its easy to read and the language used is acerbic and pointingly sarcastic at times, which makes it a very delicious read to start with. But nothing prepared me at least for the sudden explosion of ideas in the second part, where its as if BB says \\"enough of banter, now lets get serious\\" - and here is where the book translates from a hip-hop criticism of Capitalism to a very powerful dissection of political states and the developments thereafter.<br />BB analyzes the various elements and forces and features, of what he calls Jihad; in various parts of the world. In doing so he shows what forces create Jihad, and the inextricable link between Jihad and democracy on the one hand; and Capitalism on the other. The third and final part of the book is the actual commentary where BB leaves you blitzkreiged with the force and thrust of his ideas, which I shall be humble enough to not try and summarize here!<br />This book is definitely worth a buy...	2002-06-27
US	42540607	R1MT12BI5I0Y75	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A good story	This is a nice book to read. It has a nice storylike flow to it, and is well written by the author.<br />The emphasis seems to be the writing style and the description of events and scenarios, and seems to parallel a pop-fiction writing style. The elaborate descriptions, be it from Beards to autopeotomy (Yes, read the book or consult a dictionary... and then you will read the book!) seem to be an attempt by the writer to be deliberately creative, rather than naturally free-flowing, at times. The use of drawings is another attempt to further the description of the scenes taking place in the book. But the author does remind us frequently that the book is describing the reality of the past, in that it is an account of real happenings. And yet, there is no picture/image of the handwriting (which is described so eloquently); or the paintings which have been drawn, or even any one of the slips used to create the dictionary. <br />One must admit, that despite the above shortcomings the book is a wonderful and easy read. It flows well like a story, and opens up the closet of tales behind the OED which none of us would have ever known. It also illuminates the mind into the tremendous task of making a dictionary, and the sheer effort involved. It is loaded with interesting events and trivia, and is definitely worth reading.<br />The questions the book leaves unanswered is what drove WC Minor insane...? What was the relationship to the 'relatives' who committed suicide? Why hasn't the angle of Child molestation, which seems to be a recurring theme in the dreams, been explored further as a probable cause?... etc etc.<br />As I said, this is a good read, a good story, but the book truly falls short on its potential of being a classic work. Read, but dont Buy.<br />-----	2002-06-24
US	42540607	R2M6DVUYCXDK0O	0233969365	646484022	India - A Wounded Civilization	Books	2	6	11	N	N	A question of perspective	This is the first book of Naipaul I have read. I heard much about him and the title of this book set up all sorts of expectations, in line with some of my own thoughts - About a 1000 years of foreign rule, about the mindless rape of a civilization by conquerors and plunderers, about generations raised in fear and lack of pride in ones' nations... these were the wounds I expected Naipaul to address.<br />VSN instead goes off on a complete tangent, showing once again how hard it is for the Western descendents of Aristotelian logic and philosophy, to understand the Vedic concept of the Singularity. The one thing good though, and I shall read more of Naipaul, is his amazing confidence and ability to draw and link seemingly unconnected issues, albeit 'incorrectly'. VSN does come across a man of strong opinions and the book is a good beginner to him. <br />But the book itself falls awfully short on numerous accounts and is indeed a highly biased and prejudiced perspective. VSN mentions how Gandhi's writings can choke the reader with a differing perspective, and yet ironically - he commits precisely the same error. He speaks of Gandhi's inability to give attention to landscape and build characters in his book, but he fails to realize that Gandhi is a freedom fighter, not an author. VSN speaks from the ivory tower of semi-self-actualization, whereas Gandhi speaks from the perspective of himself, what VSN criticizes as Subjective writing - and yet, VSN makes the same error in his display of a complete non-understanding of the Vedic philosophy.<br />The book is a good read though, it points out some good read-worthy leads. But he overarchs in his attempt to link everything that is bad in India to a certain Hindu philosophy. VSN is patently wrong in his conclusions drawn in 1970 - as time has shown. He speaks of India's intellectual second-rate-ness; and yet it is India which is the leader in 2000 in the global software industry. VSN is out of depth with his interpretations ofVedic philosophy - he perceives the Indian attempt at achieving unity with the Bhramana and the realization of the self; as a rejection and escapism from reality. <br />Perhaps the author is not so self actualized after all...<br />But hey, VSN has a sharp and lethal tongue, and I am keen to read his other books - Just dont form an opinion of India based on this outdated book. VSN also has done some good research and the facts are always well laid out - his interpretations are 'faulty'	2002-05-29
US	42540607	R3TP352XA98NCK	0738201669	526351529	The Meaning Of It All: Thoughts Of A Citizen-scientist (Helix Books)	Books	2	9	21	N	N	Feynman's limits...	I always loved Feynman's books on Physics. This time, for the first time, I am seeing Feynman completely out of depth, as he often claims he is when it comes to Philosophy. <br />A lot of biases are seen in this book, for example Feynman refers to religions and says...'no matter what religion, be he Arab or buddhist' - Arab is not a religion !! Slang and colloquialism apart, other biases come through as he rubbishes Russian achievements by claiming only partly that Communism suppressed freedom, but more by claiming that Socialism prevented creative inventions. This surely goes against the reality of some of the best works of medicine and mathematics originating from Russia, not to mention masterpieces of literature. <br />Feynman has truly spoken like a commoner here, and yete - to his credit, he precisely claims to do so and hence is not guilty of slander, just inaccurate and bigoted views, but who doesnt have them !! I continue to love reading Feynman, but for those who expect a book on the lines of his other classics, this book is disastrously short, more so with its presumptuous title.	2002-05-09
US	42540607	RMF1477LV7M5K	0802775624	793239388	The Joy of Pi	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Comic book approach	This is not for serious readers. It is however for those who have only seen the symbol and do not know more,<br />The book gives myriad facts which are indeed interesting, but serve only to outline the history of the calculation of pi. It falls severely short in providing a contemporary perspective, in terms of how advanced were the other sciences at the same time, it fails to show the various places where pi was used and does little to elaborate on the people behind its calculations. <br />Reading this on the heels of 'e The story of a number', this book came very disappointing since I had all sorts of expectations from the book to treat Pi with the same rich thoroughness that Eli Maor has treated e. But the book is not a complete loss, since it does go into some of the less known trivia about the number, and perhaps this book can be the basis of a trivia quiz setup on Pi.<br />If you are a math person - avoid this.<BR>If you are just curious and need an extremely simple crasher - no book is better than this one actually, for the above purpose	2002-04-08
US	42540607	R1W8OBTHXRLSYY	0691058547	350618042	e: The Story of a Number	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Why Mathematics is beautiful	A definitely recommended read, pure mathematical beauty - this book shows how the mathematicians worked - it shows how Napier evolved the logarithms, how leibnitz and newton approached calculus, and how the number e itself was discovered... its so simple to read, and it also shows exactly how the firsts proved their theorems... unlike textbooks we have read proofs in. And a very quick and simple read too - where one is exposed to the beauty of mathematics when one sees how 'Pi' came to have its myriad infinite series expansions..<br />A chapter here is devoted to the Bernoulli family - which is where I want to draw your attention. This is perhaps the most influential family in mathematics, where three generations of the family have made staggering contributions to physics, mathematics, astronomy, finance, etc etc. And the family is as insane as can be - The brothers Jacob and Johann were the first to sit and understand Leibnitz' calculus, and Johann was a staunch supporter in the fued with Newton, on Leibnitz' side...(btw - Newton destroyed Leibnitz professionally, after Leibnitz' death... and Leibnitz funeral was attended by his secretary only... none else). So soon Jacob and Johann fight like mad about who made certain proofs - and Johann leaves the house, promising to return only after Jacob's death. Which he does. Later Johann and his son, who were working together starting arguing on who's name should come first on the documents they published,... so they soon quarelled and began to work alone... and then later, when Daniel starting publishing more than his illustrious father, Johann expelled him from the house with a warning to never return...In the above book, Eli Maor also compares the Bernoulli achievements in maths, with the other family that had a 150 years of three generations of contributions to its field - which was also a contemporary - viz. the Bach's and music. Awesome book - clean and nice, and leaves you admiring the poetry of maths... The book closes on the marvellous work of Euler who shows 'e power i, pi = -1', and thus links the three most vexatious numbers in maths, e, pi and i (sqrt -1), in a most wonderfully simple equation. What sheer elegance, and what beauty indeed.	2002-04-01
US	42540607	R1YHN6F9O0PS7H	0738203491	205572118	The Pleasure of Finding Things Out: The Best Short Works of Richard P. Feynman	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The 'extended' Feynman	So you've read all the usual books on Feynman and by Feynman.... but where this one scores over the others is in portraying a picture of Feynman the readers are mostly unaware of.<br />Beuatifully touched upon is the relationship between Feynman and his father, and how his father influenced his thinking and helped him grow. Another pearl in this is Feynmans report on the Challenger inquiry, which clearly is Feynman at his rarest best - explaining the workings of space ships and Nasa politics and hence the cause for failure, in such simple terms that one cant help but be amazed at the genius of the man. There are also essays whic clearly show Feynman as the father of modern Nanotechnology and explain its possibility with breathtaking simplicity.<br />This is a must read for those who have read the other Feynman books, and is worth keeping. The only reason I have kept it at 4 stars and not 5, is that the book is a little desultory at times, from its title and hence, alleged purpose. But who cares about a few carelss brush strokes in a masterpiece?	2002-03-25
US	42540607	R2FB50SK6WDG66	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Why 'Chaos' is more than interesting pics of fractals	This is one good book - period. <br />I first read Faster by Gleick, since I heard a lot about Chaos, and had just finished arguing with my buddy as to why Future Shock by Toffler was a popular thriller, not a work of knowledge and art. Faster was good.... Chaos is brilliant.<br />In chaos, Gleick plays part narrator, part biographer, part mathematician, part histographer, part author, part philosopher... he transitions well between roles, and provides what is definitely the best introduction to Chaos theory that one can find. He explains the origins of the mathematics behind the Fractals, he contrasts personalities, he brings context and life to the characters in this drama and allows the reader to ponder gently over the philosophical implications. This is a book that makes you think a little bit more about how much we really know about life and the workings of the Universe<br />Read this book with care and an open mind - and welcome to the world of chaos!!!	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R3D8DOZZ50SKPM	817223273X	806883781	Technobrat: Culture in a cybernetic classroom	Books	1	1	4	N	N	a lousy pompous rotten book	This book is really really really bad - just trust me. Dont even bother reading this review any further, or thinking about it. It is so bad that it prompted me to write.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R1MMU1AR7RK3BH	0671739166	237012102	The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Few books change the way you see the world - this is one.	If you believe that philosophy is about complex theorizing, and not your cup of tea - think again, in fact dont think - just read Will Durants book. The title says it all so wonderfully elegantly, that it makes one feel almost emotional about the book after it is over - this book is a story. It is a story of a science, of a subject, and the people who made it. It is a tale that will move you with the love Plato shows for Socrates, that will bring you to tears as you read the Excommunication Curse pronounced on the young Spinoza, and will make you shake your head with its force of ideas as it explains Descartes and Kant.<br />Once you are through with this book, and you lift your head again from its pages, the world will not seem the same. Few books can have so profound an effect on its reader - and this book does that. To the keen and curious, Durant lays bare about 2000 years of human thought, and puts in simple terms, some of the most baffling and complex of ideologies - and in doing so, the reader is left with a path to follow. The path of genius, the path of wisdom, and the path of enlightenment by reading the various books and philosophies of those mentioned here.<br />Read this book, own it, treasure it, and pass it on to your children, this is heritage... this is a work of art.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R244QHQHO4LUGC	0671739166	237012102	The Story of Philosophy: The Lives and Opinions of the World's Greatest Philosophers	Books	5	50	53	N	N	Few books change the way you see the world - this is one.	If you believe that philosophy is about complex theorizing, and not your cup of tea - think again, in fact dont think - just read Will Durants book. The title says it all so wonderfully elegantly, that it makes one feel almost emotional about the book after it is over - this book is a story. It is a story of a science, of a subject, and the people who made it. It is a tale that will move you with the love Plato shows for Socrates, that will bring you to tears as you read the Excommunication Curse pronounced on the young Spinoza, and will make you shake your head with its force of ideas as it explains Descartes and Kant.<br />Once you are through with this book, and you lift your head again from its pages, the world will not seem the same. Few books can have so profound an effect on its reader - and this book does that. To the keen and curious, Durant lays bare about 2000 years of human thought, and puts in simple terms, some of the most baffling and complex of ideologies - and in doing so, the reader is left with a path to follow. The path of genius, the path of wisdom, and the path of enlightenment by reading the various books and philosophies of those mentioned here.<br />Read this book, own it, treasure it, and pass it on to your children, this is heritage... this is a work of art.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R3MIUJQSR10Z5H	0609603698	865615884	Voices of the Rocks : A Scientist Looks at Catastrophes and Ancient Civilizations	Books	4	12	18	N	N	A book with view (point) ... - Interdisciplinary treat!	This was a book I read a few years ago, but re-read recently. Its a book by an archeologist. And it aims to show how one reads history through the glasses of an archeologist.<br />One gets some pretty good insights into the study of archeology, the tools the subject uses and how inferences are drawn. The book takes some known facts and uses them to extrapolate in very good ways, drawing from other disciplines to construct new viewpoints of the past and our history.<br />Its pretty elementary in its approach and simple, so in case you're one of the more serious heavy seekers of information, this is not for you. But if you're looking for alternate viewpoints from disciplines you have not much information about, then this is definitely a good place to begin.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R2X5GH915N61KQ	1570627681	160814101	Quantum Questions: Mystical Writings of the World's Great Physicists	Books	5	26	30	N	N	A book uniting Science and religion	If science and religion split after Pythagoras, this book proves that is really was not so. If you believe that science takes away faith, think again. Ken Wilber gives us essays from the greatest minds that shaped the 20th Century. Starting with Heisenberg and ending with Eddington, Wilbers collection of essays is a wonderful example of how it was the deepest of faiths and ideas in God and religion that drove some of the best minds. In his introduction, Wilber goes the step ahead to actually almost lay such faith and views as a precondition to stellar scientific achievement. What Wilber attempts here in his introduction is a masterly synthesis of human thought, in some bold extrapolations.<br />Definitely worth reading and keeeping as a precious possession.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R1TTLJ7ZDQNUE8	0881622729	571592756	The Complete Yes Minister: The Diaries of a Cabinet Minister	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quite simply the Best book in Satirical humor	Sir Humphrey Appleby, Sir Bernard Wooley, and Rt Honorable James Hacker... this is simply the most outstanding work of humorous fiction that lampoons the British civil service and politicians alike.<br />Based on the diaries of the minister, the series has been converted to a wonderful teleseries, where the casting has been done by someone who truly loves the book and has imbibed the characters so completely, that on later readings of the book, the television characters appear to the mind. <br />The book is a series of short stories, which expose the careful interplay between the British civil service and the British politicians, the role played by media, the foriegn office, the various departments etc. It is a wonderful set of stories, where the English is truly masterful!! I remember reading each story with a pencil and dictionary while writing the GRE many years ago,... this and its sequel, yes prime minister, are books which should receive their space in your cabinet. <br />I dont know why this says - Limited availability, these books are easily procured in India where they are being printed.	2002-03-21
US	42540607	RIY29VF94JMDM	0393049515	62981090	The Dream of Reason: A History of Philosophy from the Greeks to the Renaissance	Books	5	10	15	N	N	Why this book is a collectors item	Quite simply, amongst the best books I have read. <br />Gottlieb is a good book to read if you have just read Will Durant's story of Philosophy. Its the book you would read once you have a broad idea of the various philosophies and their timelines, and are now ready to step into the story of the men behind it. It is the book you would read before you start reading Plato's Republic... or dialogues. <br />The story begins with the Greeks and shows us what each person behind the philosophy was, it speaks of the love Plato had for Aristotle, the greatness of Pythagoras, the cynics, the epicureans... and just about every other greek school of thought that existed, from there on - it briskly moves to philosphical schools and thoughts at the time of the renaissance.<br />It is a book I have bought, and it proudly adorns my shelves along with other classics. Go ahead and buy it now, before it becomes 'out of print' ...	2002-03-21
US	42540607	R2ITARF66VJ8VY	0465016197	767726758	The Math Gene: How Mathematical Thinking Evolved And Why Numbers Are Like Gossip	Books	2	4	11	N	N	For whom this book is not meant	Dont read this book if you are good in mathematics. Most of the book progresses in a very apologetic tone for 'our' incapability in mathematics, and aims to constantly reassure the reader that its not  his fault.<br />Very little new ideas here, which one would not come across in Chomsky and other more serious linguists like Pinker. Nothing here about the gene either, which one would not come across in any moderately decent book such as Dawkins, on genetics.<br />This book is avoidable, ... unless you want someone to tell you not to feel bad about scoring zero in Math	2002-03-19
US	42540607	R2AYZ581H0N36W	0140149228	226243464	Makers of Mathematics (Penguin mathematics)	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Read this to set your expecations right	I picked up this one after reading Koestlers 'The sleepwalkers'. The cover pic too shows us Newton and other mathematical giants, so I was hoping to find a good biographical account, of the factors that shaped the lives of the makers of mathematics, and some of the social and political events that led to their theories being published.<br />However... the book is a far cry from a biographical account. It instead dwells more on the mathematical contributions of these pioneers, and the emphasis is on presenting their works in more accessible and readable ways. Thus, it might be a good book if you wish to indulge in coffee table discussions of what Euclid's Elements was all about, but if you want to know how 400 men just walked away with Pythagoras to join the brotherhood after hearing his inspiring speech, without even going back to tell their families... this is not the book for you.<br />My rating is low since it did not live up to my expectations, formed from the title of the book.	2002-03-19
US	42540607	R2LEGI7HT13Z1W	0140192468	870827867	The Sleepwalkers: A History of Man's Changing Vision of the Universe (Compass)	Books	5	64	66	N	N	A definitive history of Cosmology	This is book on the history of cosmology - make no mistake. It tries to illustrate Koestlers masterly thesis in the epilogue on the nature of genius and creativity, and the path of scientific progress. The example he uses is the history of cosmology. Having begun his book so, and paying attention to this mode of thought in the introduction, Koestler soon sets down to business<br />He begins with the Pythagorean brotherhood and delves a little into the man that Pythagoras was, and speaks of the contributions of Plato and Aristotle in this arena. So rigid is Koestlers focus, that this is perhaps the first book which speaks of Plato and Aristotle with reference to only their works in astronomy and completely ignores Socrates, who had no contribution to this field. The book neglects more ancient theories and incorrect faiths. Rather it concentrates with laserlike intensity on the people who made the Science what it is, namely Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Kepler and Galileo. Once we are through with the Greeks and the intermittent period, the book rapidly moves into a breathtaking narrative, almost biographical, about these giants, on whose shoulder Newton stood and saw further.<br />Koestler also brings to the reader correspondence and definitive evidence that debunks most of scientific history into the realm of folklore, and shows how different a path cosmological studies have taken. He debunks many old viewpoints and theories and shows the true history of science to be very different. He ends with Newtons arrival on the scene, and leaves us begging for more<br />In his epilogue, Koestler returns to his construct on sleepwalking and the nature of genius, and in a masterly flourish, the book suddenly picks up pace like never before, and ends leaving the reader wanting to read it all again! <br />Quite simply a must read, and a must-have book for any book lover	2002-03-18
US	42540607	RPDSZOHGKG1BR	0465081711	20539524	Significant Others: The Ape-Human Continuum And The Quest For Human Nature	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Why you should read this book	Craig Stanford is a good authority on the subject. He holds the position of the Director of the Jane Goodall research institute (And if you dont know who she is, perhaps you should begin with The chimpanzees of Gombe, written by her).<br />The book is wonderfully written and easy to read. The reason I am not giving it five is that the writer seems to digress from the central theme often. However, there is some wonderful elaboration of chimpanzee societies and their rituals, that brings a sense of eerieness to our own humanity and makes one sit up and think.<br />The book is wonderfully balanced and brings out many hitherto covered truths - such as the male dominated bastion of anthropology and hence masculine myths propagated, the views of the 'science' of evolutionary psychology etc. This is a book which allows you to develop your own theories after stating the facts of chimp interactions in a highly narrative and gripping story-format. <br />All in all a good book. If you are the kind who has a book collection of origins books which include Leakey and Jared Diamond, then Craig Stanford deserves his place there. If you are not a collector and are not planning on buying this, then check with your library and do read this, but read this you should - if indeed you have an interest in anthropolgy and the origins question.	2002-03-18
US	42540607	R31WT3R6B949FD	0151005206	684702663	The Monkey in the Mirror: Essays on the Science of What Makes Us Human	Books	3	5	6	N	N	interesting and not a good buy either	The main advantage of this book is the fact that it is a collection of essays, which increases the readability and allows one to finish the book real quick. Further, the essays also quickly summarize some of the more common evolutionary theories of Gould and others before him, so as to act as a good 'summarizer'. It also elaborates the concept of exaptation, which seems to be a powerful thought, rich in potential.<br />The reason for the three stars is that the writer's bias against the 'science of evolutionary psychology' comes out pretty often, and thus makes the open minded reader familiar with the subject feel as if the writer is a little close minded on this. Further, not too many original ideas here, mostly a synthesis of work done already by others - worth the synthesis though<br />Dont expect too much from this book, but a neat little concise summary with perhaps a maximum of few new ideas coming from it	2002-03-04
US	42540607	REHI5I0P1JRA3	0060984031	794982372	Third Chimpanzee, The	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A thought provoker	Having read books on the Origins question written by Paleontologists, archeologists, anthropologists and myticists, Jared Diamonds book is a refreshing new thought from a zoologist. The book itself is an easy read, with lot of humor thrown in, and with a vast array of examples.<br />This is a very good book if you already have opinions and ideas on the subject and are looking for examples and data. I tend to frequently disagree with the authors' view points since I see many personal biases reflected in the conclusions drawn.<br />Having said that, this is a book which makes you rethink a lot about our origins and what it means to be human, and Jared definitely achieves his purpose as described in the Introduction, a definite must read which opens the mind to new ways of thought	2001-08-17
