US	42608673	R1Q96Q85GG8UZB	1878379224	287844921	Bridging the Gap: Theory and Practice in Foreign Policy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Brilliantly stated argument	The premise of George's fantastic book Bridging the Gap is that a disconnect exists between policymakers on one side, and political theorists on the other.  George explains why this gap exists and what can be done to bridge it.  Not only does George succeed in explaining how it can be done, he also makes a very strong case for why it should be done. <br /> <br />George uses the case study of U.S. policy towards Iraq during the late 80's and early 90's to help the reader understand the more theoretical aspects of his argument.  Given the fact that Iraq has continued to be a problem for U.S. foreign policy, George's book is all the more relevant.  It's also a book that is written with a remarkable sense of balance and pragmatism.	2005-09-25
US	42608673	RWF8PYUWFVW54	0805211187	265926689	The Multiple Identities of the Middle East	Books	3	0	2	N	N	not for the casual reader	Bernard Lewis catches a lot of fire from people claiming he has no idea the subject he's writing about.  I've only read a few articles by him and while I can pick out some flaws, this book doesn't seem to deserve the scorn it has received.  Maybe I'll change my mind after I've read more of his work, but this one in particular didn't seem so bad. <br /> <br />In this book Lewis has seperate chapters devoted to the various forms of identification.  The chapters include subjects such as religion, state, nation, language, etc.  I think Lewis did a fine job of identifying the different forms of identification.  The chapters are short and relatively to the point, but I still found them to be somewhat dry.  I feel that this is more of a historical book rather than analytical, but I've read other history based books about the region that were more accessible than this one.	2005-09-11
US	42608673	R3146MQWOEONSG	1403963541	123342960	The Future of Iraq: Dictatorship, Democracy or Division?	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	concise and well written, read this book	Anderson and Stansfield have written one of the best books on Iraq currently on the market.  This book would be a wonderful place to start for those who have taken an increased interest in Iraq as of late. <br /> <br />I was skeptical about this book at first because the chapters on Iraqi history are very brief and quickly skip over a lot of details.  However, I've read quite a bit about Iraq and am used to more detail.  I realized that this is the type of book someone should start out with and then work your way up to someone like Charles Tripp.  Even though the authors breeze through a lot of detail, they point out a lot of important information that usually gets left out of other Iraqi history books (particularly when it comes to the role of the U.S. in Iraq). <br /> <br />Once you've finished the history section of the book, you'll find three very informative chapters about Iraq's three main ethnic groups.  These chapters are quite accurate and provide the reader with a solid foundation of information. <br /> <br />The last two chapters are the most helpful and the most informative.  The authors discuss the problems facing Iraq and how they should be dealt with.  Quite a bit of time is spent on democratization theory and its application to Iraq.  The authors use all of this to come to the conclusion that perhaps a managed partition of Iraq is the best course of action.  You may not agree with this, but the authors make a very convincing argument. <br /> <br />That being said, this is probably one the best books about the future of Iraq and I'm glad I finally got around to reading it.  Anderson and Stansfield have produced a very well written history/analytical book that really tries to answer the important questions about Iraq.  Anyone interested in Iraq should read this book as soon as possible.	2005-08-29
US	42608673	R2QGB4QWP0822X	1586482769	637724833	The Opportunity	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Weak content wrapped up in pretty packaging	If one were to read the Opportunity without much thought about what the author is actually saying, it would be very easy to find yourself being very uncritical and also agreeing with everything Haass is saying.  A year ago, I probably would have done the same thing.  This is because most people would agree with the main ideas presented in the book, mainly that the U.S. has the chance to really shape the future for the better.  By working with other countries on important issues, Haass states that we can avoid slipping back into an era defined by superpower struggles.  Haass goes through a variety of topics with this theme in mind such as handling terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and economic integration.  Classic State Department language, and again, on the surface everything sounds great.    However, Haass himself states several times that this opportunity will not remain indefinitely and that the U.S. must act now to avoid the passing of this opportunity.  This is indeed the book's biggest flaw because the philosophy and approach Haass is talking about is barely utilized by the Bush administration.  When he was working in the State Department, Haass must have felt like he was talking to a brick wall.  Haass never comes out and says whether or not this opportunity will pass in the next three years or not, but the point is that given the Bush administration's tendancies, next to nothing Haass presents will be given serious consideration.  I'm not sure if this is something we can really fault Haass for, but unless this book is intended as a desperate plea for the U.S. to change its current course with hopes of garnering mass support, the book just ends up being the written extension of what the more traditional conservative realists are going through right now under Bush.    There are also other random issues that Haass brings up in the book that I strongly disagree with.  The first is that Haass spends a considerable amount of ink on the differences between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union.  He speaks of how the U.S. was taking such a higher moral ground than the Soviets and how Russian policies were unsustainable.  I find this baffling quite honestly.  Take a quick tour through South America during the 80's and tell me what the U.S. was doing was any better than what the Soviets were.  Yes, we won the Cold War, but don't try for one second to pretend the U.S. was acting like a patron saint.    The other remark that really angered me was on page 188 where Haass refers to \\"the bogus but politically effective argument that sanctions were hurting innocent Iraqi people.\\"  Either Haass has absolutely no idea what happened in Iraq during the 90's or he's completely ignoring what happened in order to relieve the U.S. of culpability (which actually sounds just like his reasoning for the Cold War).    In conclusion, Haass makes a lot of nice sounding statements, but underneath it all is some very unsettling assumptions being made about the U.S. role in the world.  Yes, the U.S. would probably be more successful with someone like Haass in charge compared to Bush, but even though it would be a step up, doesn't mean this country would be out of the woods.	2005-08-21
US	42608673	R168OTYD5QQV4U	1400052688	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	4	4	5	N	N	much better than I thought it would be	The biggest trap that most government officials/employees fall into when writing books is not that they're uninformed, it's that they're not particularly good writers.  The text can simply be dry and boring.  In most instances the information is important to read, but it's just hard to get through the book. <br /> <br />Fortunately Robert Baer does not fall into this trap.  Sleeping with the Devil was full of interesting and easy to read information and opinion that provides one side to the debate over Washington's relationship with Saudi Arabia.  Baer does quite a good job of keeping the book interesting by including opinion, history of the region, as well as interesting personal anecdotes from his career. <br /> <br />When first seeing the title of the book, I thought it might be some polemical rant, but thankfully that was not the case.  While Baer does rattle off some rather easy/mindless comments about Iraq towards the end that lost him some points in my mind, the book comes across as trying to be helpful and educational. <br /> <br />I think this book would be a great place to start for someone interested in learning more about the Middle East, and Washington's relationship with it.  It's not really a book written for or by a policy wonk, but even as a political science grad student, I found it informative and entertaining.  A very good summer read.	2005-08-11
US	42608673	RMQMD5XX1WF1W	1860646220	671751727	Iraq Since 1958: From Revolution to Dictatorship	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	One of the first books you need to read to understand Iraq	Iraq Since 1958 is considered one of the \\"standards\\" of Iraqi history books.  There are only a few others that have attained this level, books by Tripp and Marr are also in this category.  This book, as well as the others just mentioned are the best places to start.  They provide the broad framework and context of modern Iraqi history that is essential for understanding more specific issues, such as sectarianian splits within the country, as well as regional problems with countries like Turkey and Iran.    The book intensely covers the years 1958-1979 along with a chapter on the British monarchy and also a short chapter devoted to both the war with Iran and the ivasion of Kuwait.  1958 stands as one of the most crucial years of Iraq with the overthrow of the British monarchy.  An in-depth study beginning with this year and moving forward to the crucial decade of the 60s is the best way to understand how the Ba'th party and Saddam were able to take control of the country.    One of the most striking features of the book is the fact that the authors are very bold in their denunciation of the Ba'th party and its methods.  Although one would be hard pressed to find someone actively arguing to the contrary, a high degree of ideological boldness permeates the chapters dealing with Ba'th party rule.  That notwithstanding, Iraq Since 1958 is an essential read...one that no student of MIddle Eastern history should be without.	2005-07-25
US	42608673	RYYMPITLLWSNV	0374177694	243667539	After Jihad: America and the Struggle for Islamic Democracy	Books	5	5	9	N	N	an instant classic	As far as I'm concerned, Noah Feldman has written one of the most important books of the post-9/11 era.  This books deals with the question of Islamic democracy, and why Feldman thinks its possible. <br /> <br />This book can be divided into three sections.  The first deals with broad discussions of the Muslim faith and of democracy.  In this section, Feldman gives a plethora reasons why he thinks Islam and democracy are compatible.  He doesn't say that the two fit together perfectly, or that it will be easy to merge the two, but he presents a well-reasoned, well-researched argument.  <br /> <br />The second section of the book deals with specific case studies of Islamic countries (mostly from the Middle East).  He discusses the climate in each of these countries as it relates to democracy and to Islam.  Some countries appear more hopefull than others, but Feldman does a fantastic job at identifying what will have to happen in these countries for democracy to emerge. <br /> <br />The final section of the book deals with American policy specifically and what the U.S. should do to encourage Islamic democracy.  I think a very convincing argument is presented here that the U.S. needs a new way of thinking about foreign policy if our long term interests are to be served.   <br /> <br />This is one of my new favorite political books.  I'm going to assign it for all my current world problem classes at Ohio University.  It's well written, the language is clear, and I think that it presents what is ultimately the right course of action for the U.S.  Feldman should be the next Secretary of State.	2005-07-19
US	42608673	R2V4B5KPHFEUZS	0738208574	353562465	Nader: Crusader, Spoiler, Icon	Books	5	7	8	N	N	wonderful...couldn't put it down	For as much as Ralph Nader has influenced and shaped events in this country, most people know next to nothing about the man.  Nader has had a long, fruitful career fighting for those without a voice.  In this book, Justin Martin has provided the most revealing, eye opening account of a truly great citizen. <br /> <br />As far as biographies go, this book is pretty straitforward.  Martin covers Nader's childhood, school days, college days, and then onto Nader's career in Washington D.C.  Martin invterviewed members of Nader's family and also his friends to help accumulate the material for the book.   <br /> <br />Part of why this book seems so fantastic to me may have something to do with the fact that it's the only one of its kind.  If you want to know about how Nader got to where he is today, Martin's book is the only one available.  That notwithstanding, I think the book does a great job.  The fact that Nader hasn't publicly spoken out against the book also speaks to its merit.  If Nader didn't like this book, or thought Martin got anything significant wrong, I believe Ralph would have let us know about it. <br /> <br />Hopefully all those angry democrats will sit down with this book and find out how much good Nader has done for this country...	2005-07-09
US	42608673	RPKEYOGLXJM9	1893956385	534430544	War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You To Know	Books	2	21	47	N	N	hear me out...	The conflict over Iraq has spawned a slew of unmemorable books that hope to capitalize on the moment and make a quick buck.  I believe this book falls into this category.  It's poorly written, and full of the same type of knee-jerk reactionary arguments that people like Sean Hannity makes.    Let me first say that I consider myself a liberal, but Middle Eastern politics is what I study.  I've read quite a few books on Iraq and feel quite comfortable debating the topic.  There's a lot of gray area when it comes to Iraq, but Pitt doesn't seem to acknowledge this.  I shudder to think that this book would be someone's first exposure to Iraq.    There are quite a few parts to this short book that Pitt gets entirely wrong.  I will include as many of these examples as possible.    On page 7 Pitt makes the statement that \\"the knot of Iraq was tied by America's involvement.\\"  Although it is true the U.S. has been heavily involved with Iraq during the past 25 years, if any country tied that knot it was the U.K.  America had little to do with the creation and administration of Iraq in its early days.    Pitt is obviously against the war in Iraq and rattles off a lot of talking points without much thought behind them.  An interesting conclusion that he comes to on page 11 is that since we helped create the monster that is Hussein, we are stuck with him.  Even though Bush was dishonest as [...] about this war, I would think that since we helped create the monster, we then have an ethical obligation to get rid of it.    Pitt and Ritter are both somehow convinced that the only possible conclusion to this adventure is that another Sunni dictator is put in place of Saddam (pgs 11 & 60).  This seems like a forgone conclusion to these two, but it obviously hasn't happened.  Even though Iraq is not completely sovereign yet, it's prime minister is a Shi'a.  If anything, the exact opposite of what these two claim has happened.  The fight is to get Sunnis to participate in the government,not the other way around.    Another claim made by both (pgs 12 & 61), is that democracy can't be imposed from outside.  If only Iraq's economy were allowed to recover, it's Middle Class would rise up and democracy would eventually flourish.  Iraq's economy was stronger than any of its neighbors in the 80's due to oil revenues, but a strong Middle Class did nothing to even start to get rid of Hussein.    The middle section of the book contains a very shoddy, brief history of Iraq.  This chapter is full of mistakes and anyone that reads this and takes it for truth is going to be in bad shape.  Here's a few examples...    Pitt claims that Kuwait was created by the British to deprive Iraq access to the Gulf.  The U.K. was more concerned about oil that depriving Iraq of Gulf access.  Pitt then claims that it is a \\"forgone conclusion\\" that the U.S. was against Iraq in the mid 70's because of what little Gulf access it had.  He claims that once Iran gained control of the disputed area, then the U.S. backed off.  This is false because Iran never gained full control over the area.  The river in question that fed the Gulf was split down the middle, with each country controlling half.  Iran never had full control of the river.    Pitt also talks about Hussein's \\"reportedly\\" gassing of the Kurds in 1988 (pg 21).  The way Pitt describes this event is that there is still some question about whether it happened.  Anyone that's not sure whether this happened or not has no right at all to publish books on Iraq.    This book is somewhat interesting because of Ritter's contribution about the weapons inspections process.  The book gets two stars for that.  However, the rest of the book does a horrible job of describing Iraq and the case against invading it.  It's full of factual errors and mindless talking points.  Read Noah Feldman's What We Owe Iraq instead.	2005-07-08
US	42608673	R1ERNRVFR4M0PO	0385721862	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	4	1	3	N	N	three and a half	Chua presents an interesting perspective on globalization in World on Fire.  One could be fooled by the title and think that the book was a liberal rant that places all the blame for problems on America's shoulders.  Chua does a wonderful job of not blindly adhering to any particular ideology.  The book is refreshing for that. <br /> <br />You could fault the book for being overly simplistic and leaving out a lot of important details, but to do that misses the point.  I believe Chua clearly states several times during the book that she's not claiming to have identified globalization's only problem.  She identifies what she sees as part of the problem and then focuses on it. <br /> <br />The book is largely comprised of case studies rather than being on overreaching look at Western policy, which I believe makes for a stronger case, even though some of her case studies are weaker than others.  The best point made in the book is most likely the one that the West is encouraging forms of markets and democratization on developing countries that the West never chose for itself.  She's right.  The types of markets we're pushing for aren't the type we've had at any point in our history. <br /> <br />All in all, this is a pretty good book, but it should be read along with several other books.  Zakaria's Future of Freedom, and Feldman's What we Owe Iraq come to mind.	2005-07-07
US	42608673	R1AJP1ZM8P62BD	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	4	15	19	N	N	An interesting take on Iraq	Christopher Hitchens is one of those authors that I do not agree with on everything, but I always enjoy reading what he has to say.  He comes across as an author that sticks to what he thinks is right, and doesn't adhere blindly to a particular ideology.    That being said, I think anyone that cares at all about Iraq should give this short little book a chance.  He makes quite a few good points that fly in the face of the Left's \\"no blood for oil\\" chants and the rest.  Hitchens makes the point that we're not starting off with a clean slate in Iraq and just because you disagree with past policy doesn't mean you should automatically condemn what's happening now.  What we've done to Iraq in the past under both Republicans and Democrats morally necessitates the need to overthrow Hussein.    I would give this book five stars if it weren't for Hitchens' going back over and over to the UN resolutions Hussein was ignoring.  It's true, Hussein was ignoring resolutions, but so was Washington.  Clinton kept moving the goalposts unilaterally to suit his policy preferences.  The best thing to do would have been to just stick to the resolutions and then let Hussein violate them...which he most likely would have done.  Then we would have had a stronger moral argument to make...thanks Clinton.  Hitchens ignores this point and his argument is slightly weaker for it.    When reading this book, please try to disengage from any thinking about Bush and his cabinet, regardless of your own partisan leanings.  Listen to these arguments with an open mind and I think you'll find they make a lot of sense.  Of everything I've read on Iraq and the U.S., this is certainly an interesting read.	2005-07-01
US	42608673	R1N2KM4CU6X9UC	0691121796	460083382	What We Owe Iraq: War and the Ethics of Nation Building	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	Arguably the best, most practical book on post-war Iraq	I think I'll begin by addressing the two negative reviews posted thus far...    At no point in this book does Feldman argue that the U.S. should have replaced Hussein with another dictator.  That kind of statement runs completely against everything contained in this book.  In my opinion, only someone that had never read the book could make a claim like that.    As for the other review (posted by someone that simply pastes academic reviews onto Amazon), the view is presented that the U.S. in fact does not owe Iraq much of anything and claims that Feldman presents no argument to the contrary.  This type of statement is also in the wrong.    Feldman takes the position in this book that since the U.S. is in Iraq and completely dismantled the government, there is an ethical obligation on the part of the U.S. to see the job finished.  A finished job would be a functioning, self-reliant Iraq that can defend itself and promote individual liberties.  This book goes about describing the set of ethics the U.S. should abide by.    A lot of people argue about Iraq today as if it were only George W. Bush's problem.  This approach is terribly flawed.  Iraq in 2003 was a product of (1) Saddam Hussein, and (2) EVERY U.S. PRESIDENT SINCE REAGAN.  Washington has had a roller coaster of a ride with Iraq ever since the early 80's.  Every decision made by the U.S. since then has contributed to how Iraq would eventually end up.  Yes...Hussein is also to blame and should not be given a free pass, but neither should the U.S.  As far as ethics go, we owe a huge deal to Iraq.  Hussein would have most likely been defeated by Iran in the 80's had it not been for U.S. and other Western support.  It's time the U.S. owned up to our decisions, regardless of whether or not George W. Bush went about it in a patently dishonest way.    In the end, Feldman presents an argument that is both ethical and pragmatic.  I think his argument is the one that should ultimately be adopted.  If you can get past your own partisan issues and listen to Feldman with an open mind, you'll come away with a much better understanding of Iraq and what to do about it.	2005-07-01
US	42608673	R1YK27CASDH9Y8	158322629X	637889724	In Pursuit of Justice:  Collected Writings 2000-2003	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A wonderful collection	I think most people's reaction to a 500 page book would be one of caution, myself included.  It has nothing to do with the content, I just know it will take a while for me to get through that many pages.      That being said, this collection of Nader essays is a 500 page book, but it's been a joy reading it because of the organization of the book.  Broken down into smaller chapters, the book is full of very short, but well-written essays or editorial pieces by Nader that are usually no longer than two pages.  It's very easy to read a few at a time, and then come back to the book later.  I actually find myself reading this book faster than I would other books of the same length.  Each piece is so short I usually end up telling myself, \\"I'll just read a few more.\\"  In the end, it makes the book easier to read.    As far as content goes, the book is great.  I think if you're a genuinelly progressive person, you'll still like Nader even though the Democrats have tried to scapegoat him rather than admit their own problems as a party.  This country needs people like Nader to remind us that we don't have to settle for what we have, that things can and should be better.  This book sends that message loud and clear.	2005-05-09
US	42608673	R23T7LE3NF2EJH	0195080750	138840278	No Friends but the Mountains: The Tragic History of the Kurds	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A good, although dated book on the Kurds	Bulloch and Morris tell a mostly narrative based story from the point of view of journalists.  This book is not necessarily written from a scholarly perspective; no sources are cited.  However the book does a great job at providing short passages of important topics.  There is some historical perspective, case studies on the Kurds in places like Iraq and Turkey, and also some brief analysis on what it all means. <br /> <br />This is not a great book, but for those interested in the region, it's a book that should be read.  There aren't that many books on the Kurds to begin with, so that fact alone makes this book worth reading.  For those interested, a much more in depth look can be found in McDowall's Modern History of the Kurds.	2005-04-25
US	42608673	R2Q5KQZPOCSGLL	0393324877	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A calm, balanced look at current events, pay attention	I have to say at the start that I do not agree with everything Zakaria puts forth in this book.  There are some pretty big claims made without a whole lot to back them up.  However, Zakaria is not a \\"political scholar\\" in the way that someone like Benjamin Barber is, so he shouldn't necessarily by held to the same standard.    Zakaria deserved to be read and listened to because of his approach.  He has contributed to the discussion of American foreign policy without mindlessly regurgitating rhetoric from either side of the debate.  You don't get the sense that he is a Republican or conservative, but at the same time he's willing to give Bush credit when he thinks Bush deserves it.  This is a refreshing take on the subject of democracy and one that should be read by everyone concerned with the subject, regardless of their political beliefs.	2005-04-25
US	42608673	RZM58MLLMWISP	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Not as good as Bush at War, but still good	I should say first that if you're thinking about reading Plan of Attack, you'd do well to read Bush at War first.  Since so much of the content of each book overlaps with one another, you're only getting half the picture by reading only one. <br /> <br />Plan of attack was a bit slow in places.  Woodward's style is quite readable, but it seemed like about 50 pages could have been cut out without detracting from the book.  Bush at War held my interest much more so than Plan of Attack. <br /> <br />On the other hand, I think maybe Woodward is not planning anymore books about this administration because there are several places where he is much more critical of Bush than he was in the first book.  If this administration is anything, it's tough on the press.  You don't get the type of access Woodward got by being overly critical, and it showed in Bush at War.  It was more of a lapdog approach.  Plan of Attack is certainly not attack dog, but my impression is that Woodward is planning to take this any further and decided to be more critical and to also include information that the administration probably wouldn't have wanted in there. <br /> <br />Overall, it's a good read and anyone interested in Politics in general would most likely enjoy it.  Being a political science student specializing in Middle East Politics and U.S. foreign policy, the book was especially interesting.	2005-03-22
US	42608673	R3B3POMDBLQ13J	1565846346	686309018	Rich Media, Poor Democracy: Communication Politics in Dubious Times	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Rich Media	The first thing I'll say is that McChesney is probably the best, objective media analyst writing today.  His ability to present information that describes the flaws of our media system is inspired and I cannot imagine anyone thinking of what McChesney describes as a good thing, unless they're personally profitting from the current system.  I think the reviews below do a nice job at describing the book, so I will move onto my one complaint about this book.<br /><br />Rich Media, Poor Democracy is very easy and very hard to read at the same time.  McChesney's style and presentation is not the problem, I think the content is very readable.  However the fact that the pages have such tiny margins and that the chapters aren't broken down into smaller, managable sections makes the book hard on the eyes and mind to get through.  It's mainly a psychological thing I suppose, but just flipping through the book and seeing how it's structured almost makes you not want to read it.  Everything runs together and going back to find specific passages for referencing is quite difficult.<br /><br />However, I think if you can get past this one hurdle, this book will be highly rewarding to anyone concerned with the state of our media.	2005-03-08
US	42608673	R13IMV7RWHQW7S	0802139787	637813833	Saddam Hussein: A Political Biography	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	not as bad as others made it out to be	Having nearly finished this book, I have to say that while the book is not perfect and certainly not the best book on Iraqi politics out there, I found it to be informative and easy to read.  Maybe because I've had to read so many books for school that are largely theoretical and unreadable, this book doesn't seem as bad to me as it would to others. <br /> <br />The subject matter is pretty straightforward.  The book covers Hussein's political life up until the end of the first Gulf War in 1990.  The authors do allow personal opinion to pop up from time to time, but compared to some of the other books on Iraq out there right now, I don't find it to be particularly troublesome in this instance. <br /> <br />If you have only a passing interest in Iraq, this book probably isn't for you.  I think that people with an active interest in Iraq or the Middle East should read the book along with many others.	2005-02-10
US	42608673	R27O5WFFU2DHPE	0812919475	220889951	Gulf War Reader: History, Documents, Opinions	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Helpful overview of opinions surrounding Desert Storm	The Gulf War Reader is a good place to start for anyone unfamiliar with the conflict.  You'll get a basic overview of the issues surrounding the war from a variety of ideological dispositions.  The book does seem tilted towards more liberal interpretations of the war, but the bias of each contributor is on the whole easy to determine.    While the book is full of contributions from many different perspectives, most pieces are relatively short.  This makes for an easy and quick read, but by the end of the book it's easy to find yourself wanting a more in-depth treatment of the issues surrounding the war.  That  being said, if you have no prior background on the war, pick this book up and then move on to some of the major books like Gordon & Trainor, Hiro, and Khadduri	2004-12-08
US	42608673	RXC4NAQLPD30S	0415254124	663507086	Neighbors, Not Friends: Iraq and Iran after the Gulf Wars	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	All the more revealing after the 2003 Iraq war	One of Dilip Hiro's last balanced books on an academic press before he moved onto write rants for Nation books, Neighbors, Not Friends is a more valuable book now because it provides a wealth of information on the events that contributed to the 2003 Iraq war as well as the political climate in Iran that produced Ahmadinejad.    After an introduction that recaps the 80s and very early 90s, the book is divided into two sections, one for each country.  While Hiro focuses somewhat on domestic Iraqi affairs, the first half of the book deals mainly with the ongoing conflict between Iraq and the United States.  This of course centers around Iraq's weapons programs and the US-led inspections process.  This part of the book shows just how much gray area there really was on this particular issue.  In a mostly fair way, Hiro describes Iraq's attempts to foil the US and maintain some sort of weapons program, and the US's attempts to go beyond the intent of existing UN Security Council resolutions to force Saddam Hussein from power.  Even though this book was written and published before 9/11, one can't help but feel a sense of inevitability about the 2003 war.  When you think about the shock of 9/11 and then look at Hussein's behavior since his invasion of Kuwait, it shouldn't surprise anyone that the US wouldn't tolerate his presence in the Gulf.  The US certainly isn't without fault, but read this book and then ask yourself the question \\"What did Hussein ever do to earn the benefit of the doubt?\\"  The answer is, not much.    The relationship between Iran and the US is studied somewhat in the second half of the book, but Hiro mostly focuses on the internal politics of Iran and the presidencies of Rafsanjani and Khatami.  Hiro provides a great amount of detail into how Iranian politics functions, and in the case with the first half of the book, it provides a sense of inevitability that a more hardline figure would succeed Khatami.    My only issue with this book is that it feels like two separate books sandwiched together.  The title of the book gives the impression that Iraq and Iran are to be discussed in concert with each other, or that the book is about the relationship between the two countries during the 90s.  This however is not the case.  The book is a fitting conclusion to the trilogy of Iraq-centered books by Hiro that also include The Longest War, and From Desert Sheild to Desert Storm.  Unfortunately, judging by the quality of his decidedly more ideological books written since Neighbors, Not Friends, it appears that Hiro is incapable of writing a much needed fourth book covering events from 2001 onward that can live up to the high standard he set for himself with earlier works.	2004-12-08
US	42608673	R26A1PCZVM69UP	052152900X	813407891	A History of Iraq	Books	4	10	17	N	N	Glosses over some of the more controversial parts...	But this is still an excellent place to start if you'd like to know more about Iraq.    Tripp tells the story of Iraq through the many incarnations of the Iraqi state.  This makes for a very organized, readable account.  A bit more accessable than some of the other Iraqi history books.    Even though Tripp underplays the importance of the U.S. role during the past 25 years (for example...not informing the reader how the U.S. had placed spies in UNSCOM therefore undermining the inspections process), he is realistic in his assessment of Iraq's future.  He notes that a system of corruption and patronism has been in place for as long as Iraq has been a state, and that any change in Iraq will have to take place over a long period of time.    I would recommend this book to anyone interested in learning more about Iraq, and also to those people so enthusiastic about the war, etc. who think that the U.S. can go in and wave some magic wand to fix everything.  Either way...it's an interesting read.	2004-12-03
US	42608673	R1V5FG8VE686NQ	0743253477	864440450	The Iraq War Reader: History, Documents, Opinions	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	A wonderful look at many sides of the Iraq debate	I've purchased and read many books on Iraq since it's what I'm studying at grad school right now, and this book is among the best I've read.  There are so many different points of view offered here ranging from Noam Chomsky, Ann Coulter, and everyone in between.  Even though Coulter's horribly titled (and written) article \\"Why we hate them\\" is a testament to how horrible a person she is, it's good to know all sides of the debate.    As the title suggests, in this book you'll find opinion pieces, articles from government officials, and government documents.  The editors do a wonderful job at compiling a vast amount of relevant information.  This is a good place to start if you'd like to familiarize yourself with the conflict, but most pieces are short and do not provide in-depth analysis of the topic.	2004-10-24
US	42608673	R3RIMEAQ3RKCHD	0743262514	611334106	All the President's Spin: George W. Bush, the Media, and the Truth	Books	5	6	8	N	N	a balanced look at politics and the media	What an important book for people to consider in an election year. <br /> <br />Someone could easily assume from the cover that this is a partisan attack on George W. Bush, but you know what assuming does right?  Contrary to appearance, this book is a wonderful critique of both the media and how the political system has evolved since Bush took office.   <br /> <br />A variety of topics are discussed, such as the tax cuts, deficits, the war on terror, and the war against iraq.  The book not only looks at Bush's dishonesty, but how the media does not hold him accountable.   <br /> <br />The authors of this book also hold John Kerry accountable for his methods during the 2004 campaign, asserting that Kerry is guilty of using the same tactics that Bush has pioneered and perfected. <br /> <br />Even though the election is coming up very soon, as many people as possible should find time for this book.	2004-10-20
US	42608673	RFWASCFJSRKLT	0521838347	892710035	America Alone: The Neo-Conservatives and the Global Order	Books	3	25	31	N	N	Great historical accounts of the neocons but....	America Alone is quite possibly one of the most important books to read if you want to understand Bush's foreign policy.  The authors do a wonderful job of describing the creation and evolution of the neoconservative movement.  Some of the people described in this book are the ones deciding this country's foreign policy, so it would do all of you well to read it. <br /> <br />As long as the authors stick to neocon history, the book is great.  If this were the only thing Halper and Clarke discussed, I would give the book a five.  However it is when the authors start talking about their own beliefs that things get sticky.  Case in point:  On page three, the authors state that \\"it was once a proud Washington boast that well-fashioned American policy towards Latin America had moderated that region's love affair with its generals and returned the military to its barracks.\\"  This type of statement is what gets the authors into trouble.  Anyone familliar with the history of Latin America (particularly the past 50 years) that is not blinded by ideology knows that American policies were responsible for INSTALLING most of the military dictatorships in the region.  Chile, Argentina, Brazil, and Nicaragua all had military regimes with full American backing.  I understand that this is not a pleasant reality, but that doesn't mean it didn't happen. <br /> <br />On page six the authors state that when it came to countries like East Germany, China, and Cuba, \\"they couldn't defend the mass murder that had taken place in defense of their ideology.\\"  This is an important point that says a lot about the authors.  Yes it's true that the regimes in those countries repressed and murdered their own citizens.  But Halper and Clarke leave out the fact that over a million people were killed in Latin America, mostly by the military dictatorships we propped up, in defense of OUR ideology.  You either think murder in the name of ideology is right or wrong.  These guys want it both ways.  It's bad when the Soviets do it in Eastern Europe, but it's ok when we do it in Latin America.  There's a word for that.  Hypocrisy. <br /> <br />My advice is to pay close attention to the neocon history, but when the authors stray off that path, be wary.	2004-10-19
US	42608673	R32Q6I3PINK9C7	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	35	50	N	N	Fantastic	This book reads just like an introductory book on American government...only with a sense of humor.  That's why I've decided to assign it as an additional text in my political science 101 class at Ohio University this winter.  Every time a chapter in the student's regular textbook has a corresponding chapter in America the Book, the kids read both.  Then when the media is discussed, the book becomes an overall point of discussion.    For all the people that would complain about how liberal the daily show is and blah blah blah...two things are important to consider:    First is that recent polls showed that viewers of the daily show tended to have completed higher levels of education than Fox viewers (they're not \\"stoned slackers\\" like O'Reilly suggested).  And also consider the polls that showed people who watched Fox were more likely to have false impressions about current (mostly foreign) events.  Look them up, they're easy enough to find.    For any professor looking to shake up an intro to political science class, this book is a great idea.  I've had nothing but good feedback so far.	2004-10-07
US	42608673	R2OLC758BE80J1	0131411535	797785072	Saddam's Iraq: Face-Off in the Gulf	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	You'd have to be very right-wing to think this is liberal	The topic of Iraq is very touchy these days.  It has caused a lot of debate in this country, most of which is highly uninformed.  The reviews written about this book so far are a good example of this.  First of all, the book doesn't speak negatively about Reagan, it speaks accurately about him...and doesn't \\"slam\\" Bush or his father.  The authors point out some of the world's concerns about a war with Iraq, but that can hardly be twisted into attacks on Bush.    As time has progressed, Iraq has become an increasingly embarassing subject for those who advocated war.  No Al-Qaeda link and no WMD's pretty much destroy Bush's reasons for going to war.  When talking about America's role in Iraq, this book goes easy on the U.S.  This country's policy towards Iraq was directly linked to the deaths of millions inside the country, all for the sake of stability and achieving short term goals.  I don't care how self-righteous some conservatives think they are, nothing can change the fact that we armed Saddam in the 80's then stood by and watched while he gassed his own people.  The Reuters reporters provide a brief look at some of the main features of Iraq in a way that acknowledges America's shady role inside Iraq, but doesn't criticize it the way that it deserves.	2004-04-15
US	42608673	R3H0K15BFUFFTN	0520240111	266017875	Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Not all-inclusive, but still very important	I'll keep this review short as the thoughts below cover a wide range of relevant points about this book...    First of all...no single book will be able to adequately cover the topic of terrorism.  That in mind, this book has its flaws and misses some things, but I think it is a valuable part of the literature on terrorism.  This shouldn't be the only book on terrorism you read, but it should be one of them.    This book is written as a political science book.  It is a comparative case study approach to terrorism.  That's what separates it from a lot of the books on terrorism that are out there these days, so you shouldn't expect ideology-based writing here.  The author starts of with some assumptions, and works towards explaining them.  That said...this is a very good book.  I hope many people get the chance to read it.	2004-03-28
US	42608673	RDHX3QTRS3ZX4	0471423270	938357392	Bush's Brain: How Karl Rove Made George W. Bush Presidential	Books	5	40	43	N	N	valuable tool for understanding how our country is being run	First of all...this is a book.  People are allowed to let their personal opinions come through in a book.  It isn't a news channel that's supposed to be neutral.  So anyone that complains about liberal or conservative bias in a book can only be unhappy that the author's views do not match their own.  Karl Rove's and George W. Bush's personal views are what's governing the country, give authors a break.  That applies as much to Moore and Slater as it does to Bill O'Reilly by the way.<br />Given the fact that there is next to no information about Karl Rove out there right now for the masses, this is an extremely well-needed book.  You're not going to fully understand Bush or Rove after reading it, but there's no way that any one book could completely capture the genius that is Karl Rove.  I came away with this book with a much better understanding about how decisions are made in the Bush administration because of Rove.<br />Slater is also an ideal person to be writing on the subject as he was a reporter on the campaign trail with Rove and Bush.  Karl Rove had every opportunity to clear up any misunderstandings about his past with the author, but he almost always contradicts himself.  If Rove can't get the story straight when he knows what he says will be published, you shouldn't confuse bias from an author with unpleasant realities that make your party look bad.	2003-06-21
