US	42627253	R25ASSAI720OO7	0785108262	898067008	Avengers: Celestial Madonna	Books	1	21	40	N	N	Did He Just Tell Her To Marry A Tree....?	Ever since I was a kid in the late '70's, I've heard comic fans speak in hushed, reverential whispers about the classic \\"Celestial Madonna\\" storyline in The Avengers. So of course, I couldn't buy this book fast enough. In the agonizingly long three days it took me to read the book, I learned a very valuable lesson that I will carry with me for the rest of my life: You really CAN'T go home again. Or, more precisely, just because something was good almost thirty years ago, that doesn't mean it'll stand the test of time.....<br />   Celestial Madonna is awful. Just awful. I can't say enough bad things about it. The book is tremendously overwritten, in typical '70's Marvel style, by Steve Englehart & Roy Thomas, with art by some true Marvel greats, that is unfortunately marred by Marvel's tendency of the time to match pencillers with inkers that didn't compliment their style. The Don Heck art in the last chapter is particularly atrocious looking. The story, such as it is, revolves around the character who, to me, is the kiss of death to any Avengers story: Kang the Conquerer. Where Kang goes, convoluted storytelling follows. He attempts to abduct the female Avenger who will become the fabled \\"Celestial Madonna\\" so he can mate with her and conquer the universe. Too bad for him he doesn't know which lady Avenger the Madonna IS, so he abducts Mantis, The Scarlet Witch, and the 80-something-year-old Agatha Harkness(!)........Ewwww[...] From there, the writers throw in averything but the kitchen sink, as the waters are made more and more muddy by the inclusion of The Frankenstein Monster, The Kree, The Skrulls, living plant-people, The Flying Dutchman, Rama-Tut, Immortus, Ultron, The Original Human Torch, Dormammu, Quasimodo The Living Computer, I could go on and on. I consider myself pretty well-versed in Marvel Universe history, and not only did I find myself reeling under all the references to past stories, but after a while, I just stopped caring. As I said, the book iswaaaaayy too text-heavy, and it's just a chore to read. The end is a big anti-climax, as we learn nothing about the true role of the Celestial Madonna......But I give the book 1 star anyway, since I've never seen anyone tell a woman she had to marry a tree before.........	2003-11-18
US	42627253	R3UF5KJYLHAZBK	156389906X	446368500	Batman: Child of Dreams	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Will It Never End?????	Batman: Child of Dreams marks the first time a DC Comics character has appeared in an original Japanese Manga, and while it's a nice looking book, it leaves a LOT to be desired storywise. And it's so looonnng.......<br />  The meager plot revolves around a Japanese television crew that travels to Gotham City to snag an interview with Batman. Their arrival coincides with the arrival of a designer drug that allows the user to transform into a member of Batman's rogue gallery, followed shortly thereafter by their death by mummification. Yes, this IS as stupid as it sounds. As strange as it sounds, there are degrees of suspension of disbelief, at least as far as comic characters go. You can accept an outlandish plot like this in a Superman comic; Batman has a more gritty, realistic feel to his little corner of the DC Universe, and this story just seemed overly far-fetched at best, laughable at worst. The art, by Kia Asamiya, is breathtaking. His first glimpse of Gotham City will be forever etched in my memory. The story, though....Asamiya's original Japanese script is adapted by Max Allan Collins, creator of DC's amazing The Road To Perdition, and while he does a good job, the book is WAY too wordy for it's own good. I thought the book would never end. On the plus side, Asamiya has created one of the most likeable characters to join the Batman cast in years, the adorable Reporter Yuko Yagi. Hopefully someone will bring her back in some capacity soon. Other than her, I have to look at Batman: Child of Dreams as a gorgeous failure.	2003-09-15
US	42627253	R15BBLA6PTTFL5	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	I'm Walkin' Here!!!!!	This is the fourth Bentley Little novel I've read, and out of those four, two of them, The Ignored and now The Walking, have plots so strange they almost defy a quick back cover type summary. I can imagine how difficult they must be to market. Horror fans in the know are already aware that Stephen King was reading a Bentley Little book when he had his near-fatal accident, so if the most famous Horror author EVER is reading this guy, there must be something to him, right? Well, four books into the Little oeuvre, I'm ready to say: Yes, there is. While not the flashiest writer I've come across, Little DOES have some nifty ideas that aren't the makings of your run-of-the-mill Horror story.<BR> <BR>  Tha Walking concerns the living dead, but these ain't Night of the Living Dead type flesh-eating Zombies; These guys have been re-animated for a purpose. The problem is, no one knows what it is. Across the country, people are dying, then getting up and walking away. Private Investigator Miles Huerdeen's late Father is one of the Walkers, and so is the Father of one of his clients. As Miles tries to unravel the mystery, he becomes drawn into a centuries-old cycle of revenge, witchcraft, and an evil force so strange it defies classification. <BR> <BR>  Little's story unfolds in two different time periods, and the chapters alternate between \\"Then\\" and \\"Now\\"; I found the flashback sequences to be absolutely riveting, while for the most part Miles' present-day search for answers mostly had me skipping ahead to see how many pages were left until the next \\"Then\\". Little has created one of the most memorable Horror Villains in recent memory with the Witch Isabella, and the book rockets along at mach 10, until the ending, where Little drops the ball. While I admittedly enjoyed seeing the big bad supernatural being fall victim to a good old-fashioned ...whupping, the devices Little's intrepid band of Witchfinders uses to dispatch Isabella are pure Deus Ex Machina; It's almost like hepainted himself into a corner by having a character so powerful that there was no way to defeat her, so he had to invent some powerful spoons and jars to do the job. I was also left scratching my head by the constant references to a dwarf he peppers the book with....But since there are also references to the Vampire from Little's book The Summoning (Far superior, by the way!), I'm thinking it may tie in with an earlier book of his I haven't read yet. The Walking is a fun read, but not as good as The Summoning or The Ignored. Well worth reading for any Horror fan, though!	2003-09-06
US	42627253	R3HFU9P3HUB19P	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Tasty Read	Is there a cooler villain in all of literature than cannibalistic Psychiatrist Hannibal Lector? In my humble opinion, no. After scene-stealing turns in Author Thomas Harris' previous two books (Red Dragon & The Silence of the Lambs), the good Doctor takes center stage in his own book, Hannibal. <br />  To get the comparison out of the way, Hannibal the book blows Hannibal the movie away. I purposely put off reading Hannibal until after I saw the movie (Tough to do, considering I was on line at the bookstore before they opened the day the book was released!); I thought I'd enjoy the movie more that way, and I'm glad I waited now, because if I had seen the movie AFTER reading the book, I would have hated it. The movie is like the Reader's Digest version of the book. They both follow the same plot, but the rich tapestry Harris weaves with his prose just can't be captured on film. (Plus, the film cops out at the end, opting for a more sequel-friendly finale.)<br />  In Hannibal, we find our murderous gourmet abroad in Florence, Italy, living the good life. Soon he's the center of a worldwide hunt that involves a disgraced Italian Cop, a hideously disfigured former victim and his pumped-up sister, and Hannibal's former nemesis, F.B.I. Agent Clarice Starling. When Starling is put on the F.B.I.'s hit list, Hannibal puts a daring plan into action that can only end in violence. And a VERY special dinner......<br />  As in the previous two Hannibal Lecter books, and his excellent first book, Black Sunday, Harris is a masterful wordsmith; His prose is absolutely elegant, even when describing acts of incredibly grotesque violence, of which this book has no shortage. (I consider myself pretty jaded, and I must say that I was VERY disturbed by a lot of what I read in this book. I treasure any book that can bring out such a strong reaction in me.)His characters, from Hannibal and Clarice right on down to the most minute supporting player, are all vividly rendered and three-dimensional. Aside from the straight-arrow Clarice, who is actually the most bland character in the book, there's really no one but Hannibal to root for. The book is populated by unrepentant scumbags like the faceless pedophile Mason Verger and the shifty Paul Krendler, so seeing the way Hannibal  draws them all into his web and serves them their just desserts is quite entertaining, and more than a little cathartic. The book's ending is miles apart from the movie's, and I'm still haunted by the last line. Hannibal is an amazing read, and is probably one of the top ten books I've ever read. Bon Appetit, Dr. Lecter!	2003-08-20
US	42627253	RLB623J65KUW3	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Tasty Read	Is there a cooler villain in all of literature than cannibalistic Psychiatrist Hannibal Lector? In my humble opinion, no. After scene-stealing turns in Author Thomas Harris' previous two books (Red Dragon & The Silence of the Lambs), the good Doctor takes center stage in his own book, Hannibal. <br />  To get the comparison out of the way, Hannibal the book blows Hannibal the movie away. I purposely put off reading Hannibal until after I saw the movie (Tough to do, considering I was on line at the bookstore before they opened the day the book was released!); I thought I'd enjoy the movie more that way, and I'm glad I waited now, because if I had seen the movie AFTER reading the book, I would have hated it. The movie is like the Reader's Digest version of the book. They both follow the same plot, but the rich tapestry Harris weaves with his prose just can't be captured on film. (Plus, the film cops out at the end, opting for a more sequel-friendly finale.)<br />  In Hannibal, we find our murderous gourmet abroad in Florence, Italy, living the good life. Soon he's the center of a worldwide hunt that involves a disgraced Italian Cop, a hideously disfigured former victim and his pumped-up sister, and Hannibal's former nemesis, F.B.I. Agent Clarice Starling. When Starling is put on the F.B.I.'s hit list, Hannibal puts a daring plan into action that can only end in violence. And a VERY special dinner......<br />  As in the previous two Hannibal Lecter books, and his excellent first book, Black Sunday, Harris is a masterful wordsmith; His prose is absolutely elegant, even when describing acts of incredibly grotesque violence, of which this book has no shortage. (I consider myself pretty jaded, and I must say that I was VERY disturbed by a lot of what I read in this book. I treasure any book that can bring out such a strong reaction in me.)His characters, from Hannibal and Clarice right on down to the most minute supporting player, are all vividly rendered and three-dimensional. Aside from the straight-arrow Clarice, who is actually the most bland character in the book, there's really no one but Hannibal to root for. The book is populated by unrepentant scumbags like the faceless pedophile Mason Verger and the shifty Paul Krendler, so seeing the way Hannibal  draws them all into his web and serves them their just desserts is quite entertaining, and more than a little cathartic. The book's ending is miles apart from the movie's, and I'm still haunted by the last line. Hannibal is an amazing read, and is probably one of the top ten books I've ever read. Bon Appetit, Dr. Lecter!	2003-08-20
US	42627253	R25DBUVXGT1PTU	1592910076	736689231	Alan Moore Another Suburban Romance	Books	1	12	15	N	N	Another Avatar Ripoff.......	Once again, Avatar backs the truck up to the Alan Moore cash vault by releasing a \\"Graphic Novel\\" composed of adaptations of Moore's poetry. To be fair, I am NOT a fan of poetry, no matter WHO the author is. Although I love Alan Moore's work, I resent being tricked by Avatar, not once, not twice, but a whopping THREE times, with their so-called \\"Original\\" Alan Moore graphic novels. The art, by Juan Jose Ryp, is really nice; It's intricate detail is reminiscent of Geoff Darrow's work on Hard Boiled and The Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, but great art in the service of a non-existent story is meaningless. Poetry fans might like this, but I didn't. This is the LAST time I'll be burned by Avatar.	2003-08-12
US	42627253	R2K9CRLFN89CUD	1881475832	286882667	Helltracks	Books	2	3	3	N	N	The Road To Hell Is Padded By Unnecessary Subplots	When I was a teenager, my best friend Bryan bought me a copy of a horror anthology for my birthday, and my absolute favorite story in it was William F. Nolan's \\"Lonely Train A'Comin'\\", a tight little tale about a vengeful rancher seeking the destruction of the phantom train that claimed his sister's life. Needless to say, when I found out that Nolan had expanded the beloved short into a novel, I just had to have it. Well, the novel is a mixed blessing, as I'll detail below.......Read on!      The novel follows pretty much the same path as the short story; It just takes a hell of a lot longer to reach it's destination. Rancher Paul Ventry, still hurting from the death of his wife Sarah, is dealt a crippling blow by the disappearance of his Daughter, Amy. The only clue is a postcard she sent (Conveniently...) from the train station, telling about the steam train she was about to board. The postcard and a bizarre dream combine to convince Paul that his Daughter was killed on board the mystery steamer; Only problem is, no one in Montana runs steamers anymore. Unable to convince the law or his son, Paul sets off into the mountains to exact his revenge alone.  Woven throughout the Ventry/train narrative is the tale of Edward Timmons, a serial strangler also bound for Montana, where he's convinced he'll find a cure for his \\"Compulsion\\". His traveling-madman story takes up most of the book, and while it WAS interesting reading, this was where I had the biggest problem with Helltracks. So much time is taken up with Timmons' story, the Train itself doesn't take center stage until around page 280, and the novel is only 305 pages long. The two stories only connection is pretty flimsy, & when Nolan reveals the connection it just makes Timmons' story seem like padding for a tale that couldn't reach novel-length on it's own. (Nolan pretty much admits this in his essay \\"Tracking Helltracks\\" in the back of the book.) Nolan brings up some interesting subjects in the book, but none are fully explored, so the book seems like nothing more than a mercilessly padded short story. The book includes an introduction by Richard Matheson, Nolan's \\"Tracking Helltracks\\" essay, and the original short story the Novel is based on. Reading \\"Lonely Train A'Comin'\\" again made me realize that it's really not such a great story after all....I guess tastes DO change as we get older. Helltracks is limited to 500 signed/numbered copies, and is published by the always-reliable Cemetery Dance, so at least the book LOOKS great. The cover by Alan M. Clark is absolutely stunning. If you're into limited-edition/rare books, Helltracks may be worth your while. If you just want to read the book, you can buy the original 1991 paperback used for a fraction of the cost.	2003-08-11
US	42627253	R3K7YOCNUE7LBT	0312878664	325378450	Hosts	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Spear Has No Branches........	...Or so says the mysterious Russian lady whose presence sets the strange events of Hosts, F. Paul Wilson's 5th Repairman Jack novel, in motion. Urban mercenary Jack is unwittingly hired by his older Sister to investigate a strange cult her lover Jeanette has (seemingly) joined. As usual with Jack, there's more than meets the eye with this case: All of the Cult members are patients of the same Doctor, and they've all been on the receiving end of an experimental Cancer treatment. The Virus used to treat the Cancer has been tainted by \\"Ms. Aralo\\" (Longtime Jack fans will recignize the letters in that name...), and soon the patients are joined in a Hive-mentality that threatens to mutate into an air-borne virus that could signal the end of life as we know it by eradicating individual thought and making Humanity drones and slaves to \\"The Otherness\\". Good thing Jack's on the case....<br />  Hosts is probably the weakest of the Repairman Jack novels to date, but it's still head and shoulders above most horror or suspense novels. As usual, Wilson does a great job of making his characters seem like real,three-dimensional people, and he peppers the book with enough sub-plots (Revenge-seeking arsonists, a Reporter who discovers Jack's identity, the introduction of Jack's Sister) to keep the story moving along briskly. By the end of the book, the reader has learned a lot of new information about Jack, and the stage is set for more battles against The Otherness. As another reviewer pointed out, the hardcover is filled with typos and name transpositions, which is really sloppy. These were hopefully corrected in later printings. This was especially jarring when reading about the sibling arsonists, whose names kept getting switched around....Otherwise, Hosts is a pretty good read, and sure to please longtime Repairman Jack fans and newbies alike.	2003-08-05
US	42627253	R1E9CWIKRXJU0X	0812566548	708436828	All the Rage (A Repairman Jack Novel)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Otherness Isn't Through With Jack Just Yet.......	All The Rage, F. Paul Wilson's fourth Repairman Jack novel, continues Jack's descent into the shadowy world of The Otherness, which he previously encountered in The Tomb & Conspiracies.<br />   This time, Urban Mercenary Jack has been hired by Dr. Nadia Radzminsky to protect her boss, Dr. Luc Monnet, from SERIOUSLY off-kilter Bosnian drug-kingpin Milos Dragovic. Nadia suspects that Luc is the victim of an extortion scheme, but the truth is a little more sinister. But what else would you expect from one of Jack's cases...? Soon Jack is up to his eyeballs in murder, revenge, and a designer drug called Berzerk, which amplifies the users latent hostility to the Nth degree. The real treat for longtime fans of Repairman Jack is just WHERE the drug is coming from, which sends the book to a thrilling conclusion in the Jersey Pine Barrens. Familiar faces abound, from the usual suspects (Abe, Julio, Gia & Vicky) to the decidedly UNusual (The omnipresent \\"Sal Roma\\", and The Ozymandias Prather Oddity Emporium, which was introduced in Freak Show, an anthology by The Horror Writers of America, Edited by F. Paul Wilson. I loved these characters so much I went right out and snapped up a copy of Freak Show online.) The book is a satisfying read in and of itself, but it also manages to advance the ongoing Sal Roma/Otherness storyline, and sheds new light on Jack's personal life. For my money, All The Rage ties Conspiracies for best Repairman Jack novel. And that's saying A LOT! Highly recommended!	2003-07-29
US	42627253	R1GH04AL6LMEBQ	0812566998	936523084	Conspiracies (Repairman Jack Novels)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	You're Not Paranoid If They Really ARE Out To Get You.....	F. Paul Wilson's magnificently rendered Urban Mercenary Repairman Jack returns for another job in Conspiracies, his follow-up to The Tomb &amp; Legacies. Conspiracies also marks Jack's return to the type of Supernatural adventures that Wilson writes so well.<br />   Repairman Jack is hired to find missing conspiracy-theorist Melanie Ehler, who has vanished mere days before she was slated to unveil GUT (Grand Unification Theory), her theory which would unite almost ALL conspiracy theories under ONE gigantic all-encompassing plot against humanity. Melanie's Husband, Lew, is moved to hire Jack after being contacted by the missing Melanie....as a voice coming through the television while Lew is watching The Weather Channel. Jack is soon up to his neck in crackpots as he infiltrates an annual Conspiracy convention (Which provides some BIG laughs to offset the novel's growing sense of menace), and if he ever manages to sift through all of the disparate theories, he just may find himself head-to-head with a VERY familiar baddie....<br />  Conspiracies marks a Grand Unification of a different sort, as Wilson ties Jack more firmly into the mythology of his six-book Adversary Saga, as well as some of his many excellent short stories. Knowledge of his short stories isn't necessary (Although readers familiar with the town of Monroe, the gateway in the New Jersy Pine Barrens, and disfigured serial-killer Carly will be tickled at the sly winks to those and other stories), but I think at least a working knowledge of The Adversay Saga (The Keep, The Tomb, The Touch, Reborn, Reprisal, and Nightworld) is needed to fully grasp the weight and importance of the story. I'm not sure I would have been satisfied with the ending if I hadn't read the other books already. For this avid F. Paul Wilson fan, Cnspiracies is his best book yet, and luckily, there's much more Repairman Jack to come.	2003-07-20
US	42627253	R70X68U1JEUPA	1563898977	359387	Catwoman: Selina's Big Score	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Look What The Cat Dragged In.....	Wow, yet ANOTHER disappointing DC hardcover. This one is made even more diasppointing because it's the brainchild of talented Writer/Artist Darwyn Cooke. Catwoman: Selina's Big Score takes place before the start of her current DC series, and details Selina Kyle's return to her cat-burglar roots for one last job: The heist of a train full of unmarked Mob money. The book has one good thing going for it: Cooke's art is a real feast for the eyes. His skill with dialogue is evident here also, but the plot itself just doesn't justify the ...price. The copy on the back cover promises lots of twists and betrayals, but I just found a very straight-forward heist yarn like a million others we've seen before.  This could easily have been fit into a six-dollar Prestige-Format Graphic Novel, especially seeing as how the book is padded with full-page chapter breaks and a pin-up gallery. I also question Cooke's having Selina's Big Score rely so heavily on the reader knowing the particulars of his and Ed Brubaker's \\"On The Trail of The  Catwoman\\" arc from Detective Comics, which starred Private Eye Slam Bradley. The book makes constant references to that story, but makes no attempt to fill new readers in on what happened there. Fans who simply MUST have this book would be well served by getting the cheaper softcover version; At least that way it won't sting QUITE so much.....	2003-07-20
US	42627253	R1B1XTNF5PE2H8	1882931866	85551019	Fistful of Blood	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Sergio Leone Meets George Romero As Softcore Porn/Splatter	The title of this review pretty much sums up Fistful of Blood, the grisley, pointless, yet strangely entertaining new book by Kevin Eastman (Of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fame) and Simon Bisley (Lobo, Slaine, Judge Dredd). The attractive, relatively low-priced hardcover by Heavy Metal books tells the near-future tale of a gorgeous blonde woman who stumbles (Buck-naked, of course) into a desert town overrun by two warring factions: Zombies rule the streets by day, Vampires by night. The mystery girl straps on some guns, and commences to kill everything in sight. That's pretty much it. Eastman's writing is nothing special, but he gets the job done, and Bisley's art is grotesquely beautiful, but why would you print a book by as talented a painter as Simon Bisley in black-&-white? Kinds of defeats the purpose. Fistful of blood is more likely to please readers too young or too shy to actually purchase a copy of Playboy than someone looking for a good read. Fans of Bisley's art might feel they're getting their money's worth, but all others will probably want to take a pass....	2003-07-15
US	42627253	R15O094ZHJ628K	0812571991	127371808	Legacies: A Repairman Jack Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	JACK IS BACK!!!	Legacies marks the return of urban mercenary Repairman Jack, who first appeared in F. Paul Wilson's magnificent horror/action novel The Tomb. Got a problem you can't (Or won't...) go to the Police with? For a small fee, Jack could be the solution to all of your problems...<br />  Alicia Clayton has just been hit with a bombshell: The Father she hasn't spoken to since she turned 18 has just died in a plane crash, and she's inherited the family home. Her step-brother, totally cut out of the will, is naturally a little ticked off. But could he possibly be responsible for the \\"Accidental\\" death of Alicia's Lawyer? Where is he getting the money for the Million-Dollar offers he's making for the house? Could the house hold a secret worth killing for...? And what went on there that made Alicia swear never to set foot in it again? With a little luck, Jack and Alicia may just get the answers...<br />  Wilson does his usual excellent job, writing a briskly paced page-turner. I really hated to put the book down, and I finished it in record time. Jack is a GREAT hero, and he's got some amazing three-dimensional villains to contend with here. Unlike Jack's previous adventure in The Tomb, Legacies is straight crime-drama, so readers looking for the Horror elements present in The Tomb may be disappointed for a minute...At least until they get [drawn] into the mystery.	2003-07-09
US	42627253	R3VX3BE73AQHCS	0812571991	127371808	Legacies: A Repairman Jack Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	JACK IS BACK!!!!!	Legacies marks the return of urban mercenary Repairman Jack, who first appeared in F. Paul Wilson's magnificent horror/action novel The Tomb. Got a problem you can't (Or won't...) go to the Police with? For a small fee, Jack could be the solution to all of your problems....<br />  Alicia Clayton has just been hit with a bombshell: The Father she hasn't spoken to since she turned 18 has just died in a plane crash, and she's inherited the family home. Her step-brother, totally cut out of the will, is naturally a little ticked off. But could he possibly be responsible for the \\"Accidental\\" death of Alicia's Lawyer? Where is he getting the money for the Million-Dollar offers he's making for the house? Could the house hold a secret worth killing for...? And what went on there that made Alicia swear never to set foot in it again? With a little luck, Jack and Alicia may just get the answers....<br />  Wilson does his usual excellent job, writing a briskly paced page-turner. I really hated to put the book down, and I finished it in record time. Jack is a GREAT hero, and he's got some amazing three-dimensional villains to contend with here. Unlike Jack's previous adventure in The Tomb, Legacies is straight crime-drama, so readers looking for the Horror elements present in The Tomb may be disappointed for a minute.....At least until they get sucked into the mystery.	2003-07-09
US	42627253	R3ED03E41F4M3L	0312869509	736630913	The Barrens and Others	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Not A Dud In The Bunch!	Author F. Paul Wilson made a fan out of me with his stunningly original novel The Keep, a tale of Nazis facing Lovecraftian horror in a Romanian castle. I became a fan of his Repairman Jack character in The Tomb, a sequel to The Keep, and that led me to The Barrens and Others, where Jack makes a belated return in the story A Day In The Life. It's rare to find a really good short story collection, and this is Wilson's second; The first was the amazing collection Soft and Others.<br />  The stories here include:<BR>Feelings, where a greedy Lawyer learns empathy the hard way.<BR>Tenants, which finds an escaped killer hiding out with an old man<BR>       and his VERY unusual boarders.<BR>Faces, a different spin on the serial killer tale, concerning a <BR>       hideously deformed girl who kills beautiful people in a <BR>       truly gruesome manner. (These three stories all take place<BR>       in the town of Monroe, and tie in with Wilson's Adversary<BR>       Cycle, which began in The Keep.)<BR>A Day In The Life features the return of Repairman Jack, and will<BR>       be a real treat for Jack's legions of fans. No <BR>       supernatural stuff, just straightforward action/adventure.<BR>The Tenth Toe, a humorous take on black magic in the old west, <BR>       starring Doc Holiday and featuring Wyatt Earp.<BR>Slasher is a crackerjack revenge yarn with a jaw-dropper of an <BR>       ending.<BR>Definitive Therapy features DC Comic's Batman villain The Joker.<BR>       No Batman, no action, just The Joker and his new <BR>       shrink exploring the depths of madness in Arkham Asylum.<BR>       Wilson delivers another killer twist at the end.<BR>Topsy is a short tale of gluttony revolving around a morbidly<BR>       obese man hospitalized after a fall at home. Any EC<BR>       Comics fan will see the end coming, but it's a fun read <BR>       nonetheless.<BR>Rockabilly features Dick Tracy and his coolest rogues gallery <BR>       member, Mumbles. \\"Kz maz, kpr!!\\" Loads of fun, as Mumbles<BR>       tries to become the next Elvis.<BR>Bob Dylan, Troy Johnson, and the Speed Queen is the tale of a <BR>       time-traveller who goes back to the sixties to \\"create\\"<BR>       some classic rock tunes. Sci-fi isn't my cup of tea, but<BR>       Wilson did a good job of holding my interest here.<BR>Pelts is Wilson's goriest tale, which is clearly an anti-fur <BR>       screed, but also works as grand-guignol. There's some real<BR>       stomach-churners in this story...<BR>Wilson also includes the scripts for the aborted stage  <BR>       adaptation of Pelts (Which would have been a sight to <BR>       see!) and Glim-Glim, an alien-invasion tale that was <BR>       produced for the TV series Monsters. Wilson prefaces each<BR>       story with a short introduction, and these alone are <BR>       worth the purchase price. My only quibble with the book is<BR>       that it didn't include some of his other Repairman Jack<BR>       short stories, such as The Last Rakosh, which are almost<BR>       impossible to find.	2003-07-04
US	42627253	R3QNJTX2SP2LH9	1569716900	766664545	Xenozoic Tales, Volume 1: After The End	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Wait Is Over!!!!!	Imagine a terrible cataclysm that destroyed civilization as we know it; Humanity has been all but eradicated, the few survivors driven underground. They emerge hundreds of years later to find a brave new world awaits them, a new age...The Xenozoic Age, where man must co-exist with Dinosaurs, Mammoths, and creatures that have never been seen before, such as the mysterious Grith, humanoid lizard-people who have existed unseen since before man evolved from the Apes. The gorgeous Hannah Dundee arrives at the City By The Sea as an ambassador of her people, The Wasoon, and is soon partnered up with Jack \\"Cadillac\\" Tenrec, a Shaman/auto mechanic, who alternates between trying to repair salvaged technology from before the cataclysm and teaching his fellow man to respect the delicate balance between Humanity and nature. With Jack as her guide, Hannah begins to learn about The City By The Sea and it's inhabitants, but Hannah has a hidden agenda, and it seems like The Grith may have some plans of their own for the lovely Ambassador.... <br />  Xenozoic Tales Volume One: After The End reprints issues 1-6 of Mark Schultz' mid-eighties classic Xenozioc Tales, along with a seldom-seen Xenozoic story from Death Rattle #8, an introduction by Paleontologist Philip J. Currie, a sketch gallery, and a brand-new cover. Schultz' art is beautifully detailed without ever being cluttered; It's very reminiscent of Al Williamson and other classic EC Comics artists, and that's just about the highest compliment I can give. It's also fun to see Schultz' artistic style evolve over the course of the book- He just keeps getting better and better. Highly recommended to anyone who loves a well-told story, or just plain likes Dinosaurs. And who doesn't like Dinoasurs....?	2003-06-29
US	42627253	R1V398UNTMXI1L	1563896877	331006216	Preacher: Dead or Alive	Books	2	13	13	N	N	Nothing New For Longtime Fans....	As a longtime of Garth Ennis' legendary DC/Vertigo comic Preacher, I was very excited to see this collection, which promised not only every Glenn Fabry cover from the series, related mini-series and one-shots, and trade paperbacks, but commentary by Fabry and Ennis, behind-the-scenes stuff like sketches and rejected covers. The book is a great buy for newer fans, but longtime Preacher faithful won't find nearly enough value for the hefty price tag. Ennis and Fabry's comments are REALLY brief, and although there are a few laughs to be had from the acerbic duo, two or three chuckles do not make a book worth thirty smackers. The most glaring omission is the original cover from Preacher #52; The depiction of an 8 year-old Tulip getting a gun for Christmas from her Dad was scrapped because of the Columbine school shootings. The cover is discussed here, but not shown. Considering the unused cover was the primary reason for my buying the book in the first place, I was pretty angry to find it wasn't included. It's a nice-looking book, but if you've been a fan of Preacher for a while, chances are you've seen every piece of Fabry art contained here.	2003-06-24
US	42627253	R3VBOTD8HZB4P4	1563896877	331006216	Preacher: Dead or Alive	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Nothing New For Longtime Fans....	As a longtime of Garth Ennis' legendary DC/Vertigo comic Preacher, I was very excited to see this collection, which promised not only every Glenn Fabry cover from the series, related mini-series and one-shots, and trade paperbacks, but commentary by Fabry and Ennis, behind-the-scenes stuff like sketches and rejected covers. The book is a great buy for newer fans, but longtime Preacher faithful won't find nearly enough value for the hefty price tag. Ennis and Fabry's comments are REALLY brief, and although there are a few laughs to be had from the acerbic duo, two or three chuckles do not make a book worth thirty smackers. The most glaring omission is the original cover from Preacher #52; The depiction of an 8 year-old Tulip getting a gun for Christmas from her Dad was scrapped because of the Columbine school shootings. The cover is discussed here, but not shown. Considering the unused cover was the primary reason for my buying the book in the first place, I was pretty angry to find it wasn't included. It's a nice-looking book, but if you've been a fan of Preacher for a while, chances are you've seen every piece of Fabry art contained here.	2003-06-23
US	42627253	R3F5NRTEN6VQUH	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Freaks Come Out At Night....	Anyone who has ever gone out in the middle of the night will agree that even the most commonplace things seem different then; Familiar streets look oddly empty, strange sounds are heard, and seeing someone walking towards you in the dark is cause for alarm, even on the supposedly \\"Safe\\" streets of your own neighborhood....<br />  The late Richard Laymon uses this premise to great effect in Night in the Lonesome October, one of the last books he wrote before his untimely death. The story centers on Ed Logan, a College student who has just been dumped by his girlfriend Holly. The heartbroken Ed, unable to sleep, decides to take a middle-of-the-night trek to a 24-hour donut shop on the outskirts of his sleepy college town, and soon finds his life changed forever. Ed starts spying on an attractive young girl he sees sneaking around on that first night, and soon becomes obsessed with finding out who she is. Despite becoming close to his ex's best friend Elaine, he continues to make his nightly journey in search of the elusive mystery girl, but discovers in short order that pretty young girls aren't the only ones out cruising the October nights...<br />  Filled with rape, murder, cannibalism, sadistic torture, kidnapping, voyeurism, etc., Night in the Lonesome October is not for everybody; It's grade-B entertainment, but well-done grade-B entertainment. Laymon was clearly a very talented author. His writing style is clear and concise, and I often found it very difficult to put the book down. There were times when I found myself very afraid for Ed and his companions, especially the scene in the donut shop where Ed encounters Randy for the first time.This is only my third exposure to Laymon, and I'm so impressed with his work that I've bought almost all of his books. On the downside, it seems like every female character Laymon writes is doomed to be raped repeatedly and gruesomely, and it gets old fast. I also thought the last page was a little too pat, and seemed more likea teen-ager's wish fulfillment than a truly realistic ending. Overall, though, Night in the Lonesome October is worth a look to Horror/Suspense fans. You'll never look at a bridge the same way again.....	2003-06-22
US	42627253	R3NEE3854K8450	1569716102	369011	Hellboy: Bones of Giants	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Interesting Concept Can't Make Up For Flawed Execution	I've been a fan of Paranormal investigator Hellboy ever since he burst onto the comic-book scene courtesy of creator Mike Mignola and publisher Dark Horse Comics, so needless to say I was thrilled when Dark Horse announced that he would be the star of a series of Novels by Horror author Christopher Golden. The enthusiasm waned a bit (Actually it died...) after I read the first book, Hellboy: The Lost Army; I didn't care for it, so I saved The Bones of Giants and the short story collection Odd Jobs for later. Guess Odd Jobs will get put on the back-burner AGAIN, 'cause I really didn't think Bones of Giants was much better.<br />  The concept is great- Hellboy is called in to investigate the discovery of a gigantic corpse in Sweden, which turns out to be the remains of the Norse God of Thunder, Thor; Hellboy picks up Thor's hammer Mjollnir, is struck by the lightning the hammer can summon, and finds that not only is the hammer now fused to his right hand, but he's now also the unwilling host for the essence of the &quot;Thunder-Bearer&quot;; Good thing, though- It seems as if Thor isn't the only Norse Deity to be making a comeback; Thrym, a vengeful Frost Giant, has also risen from his grave, and he's looking for a do-over of Ragnarok, the legendary &quot;Twilight of the Gods&quot;, and it looks like only Hellboy and his fish-man partner Abe Sapien can stand in his way. <br />  If Mignola had handled this in the comic, it would have been solid-gold. Here it just seems stagnant. I really have nothing bad to say about Christopher Golden's writing; He gets the job done, but his style just didn't do anything for me. Avid readers will know what I mean- There are some Authors whose books you just hate to put down, and some whose books you just hate to pick up. For me, Golden falls into the latter category. The only reason I was even able to muster up the resolve to finish the book is because I had no choice! (I finished the last 50 or so pages in the Dentist's office waiting for the Novocaine to kick in.) To his credit, Golden did manage to make the final showdown interesting, but it still wasn't enough for a recommendation. The book has dozens of spot illustrations by Mignola, and although he's hands-down my ALL-TIME FAVORITE artist, they're not his best work, and serve more as mood-setters than actual representations of what is going on in the story at any given time. Kudos to Dark Horse for trying something different, though. The paperbacks are a great idea, especially with the Hellboy movie looming for Summer of 2004, and I'd love to see more, but please give another Author a try...? Maybe Poppy Z. Brite, Edward Lee, or Jack Ketchum?	2003-06-14
US	42627253	R1FKX0UR7IR7GF	1563892936	42746949	Batman: Contagion	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Quick! Get Me The Antidote!	DC has reissued Batman: Contagion in the wake of it's mega-successful No Man's Land collections, and it serves as a good reminder of just WHY the Batman books needed to be shaken up so drastically in the first place...<br />  Contagion revolves around an outbreak of &quot;The Clench&quot;, a fictional Ebola offshoot, in Gotham City. Batman and company attempt to contain the spread of the Disease, while trying to track down a trio of survivors of a previous Clench outbreak, with the hope of synthesizing a cure/vaccine from their blood. <br />  The book is very choppy, especially the first chapter, which appears to be heavily trimmed from it's original presentation in Batman: Shadow of the Bat. DC hasn't taken any steps to make their collections new-reader friendly, either, which could be a very big mistake. Longtime readers will know Oracle, Azrael, Nightwing, The Huntress, etc.; A new reader browsing this in a store would no doubt put the book right back on the shelf. The story has a few compelling moments, but for the most part it seems unnecessarily padded. Did we really need the Native American tracker? What did Biis contribute to the story? The writing is average at best; Most of the stories in Contagion were written by people who had long since overstayed their welcome on the Bat-books, such as Doug Moench &amp; Alan Grant; The art ranges from okay to sub-par; Kelley Jones' chapter seems especially ugly thanks to poor color reproduction which mars his intricate pencils. The ultimate revelation of who is behind the spread of The Clench is sure to be a head-scratcher to new readers, since no background at all is offered to explain who these people are and what their motives are. DC really needs to get on the ball with their trade-paperback program; Preaching to the Choir is nice, but they need to try for new converts. Junk like Contagion is NOT the way to expand their readership......	2003-06-10
US	42627253	R2H5FFDGW62416	1563892936	42746949	Batman: Contagion	Books	2	28	37	N	N	Quick! Get Me The Antidote!	DC has reissued Batman: Contagion in the wake of it's mega-successful No Man's Land collections, and it serves as a good reminder of just WHY the Batman books needed to be shaken up so drastically in the first place...<br />  Contagion revolves around an outbreak of &quot;The Clench&quot;, a fictional Ebola offshoot, in Gotham City. Batman and company attempt to contain the spread of the Disease, while trying to track down a trio of survivors of a previous Clench outbreak, with the hope of synthesizing a cure/vaccine from their blood. <br />  The book is very choppy, especially the first chapter, which appears to be heavily trimmed from it's original presentation in Batman: Shadow of the Bat. DC hasn't taken any steps to make their collections new-reader friendly, either, which could be a very big mistake. Longtime readers will know Oracle, Azrael, Nightwing, The Huntress, etc.; A new reader browsing this in a store would no doubt put the book right back on the shelf. The story has a few compelling moments, but for the most part it seems unnecessarily padded. Did we really need the Native American tracker? What did Biis contribute to the story? The writing is average at best; Most of the stories in Contagion were written by people who had long since overstayed their welcome on the Bat-books, such as Doug Moench &amp; Alan Grant; The art ranges from okay to sub-par; Kelley Jones' chapter seems especially ugly thanks to poor color reproduction which mars his intricate pencils. The ultimate revelation of who is behind the spread of The Clench is sure to be a head-scratcher to new readers, since no background at all is offered to explain who these people are and what their motives are. DC really needs to get on the ball with their trade-paperback program; Preaching to the Choir is nice, but they need to try for new converts. Junk like Contagion is NOT the way to expand their readership......	2003-06-10
US	42627253	R1NJ7HCJ7FYHJX	0451192583	284706036	The Ignored	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Another Impressive Outing From An Underrated Author	The Ignored seems like a pretty tough sell, if you're the type to judge a book by it's cover. The art has nothing to do with the story, and the copy on the back cover doesn't even begin to scratch the surface of Bently Little's amazing story....<br />  Bob Jones is a perfectly average guy. Maybe TOO average. When he starts his new job, he begins to realize that maybe there's more to the apparent rudeness of his new co-workers than meets the eye. Is he actually fading away, becoming one of The Ignored? Little structures the story into three acts: Bob's discovery of his condition, his recruitment into a cadre of \\"Terrorists for the common man\\" (I.E., The IGNORED man), and the eventual discovery of an entire city of the Ignored. The first and last segments resonated deeply with me, the Terrorist segment didn't. Not that the middle section wasn't good, it just didn't grab me the same way as the segments that bookend it. I work in a fairly large health care company, and at times I actually DO feel like I might be invisible to my co-workers, so I felt a real kinship with Bob. The final segment is just stunning; It really took me by surprise, so I won't spoil anything here; I'll just say that Little managed to creep the HELL out of me. In our fast-paced, impersonal world, It's easy to feel alone and ignored; Just be glad you're not Bob Jones....	2003-06-07
US	42627253	R3966XKFICUSVU	0451192583	284706036	The Ignored	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Another Impressive Outing From An Underrated Author	The Ignored seems like a pretty tough sell, if you're the type to judge a book by it's cover. The art has nothing to do with the story, and the copy on the back cover doesn't even begin to scratch the surface of Bently Little's amazing story....<br />  Bob Jones is a perfectly average guy. Maybe TOO average. When he starts his new job, he begins to realize that maybe there's more to the apparent rudeness of his new co-workers than meets the eye. Is he actually fading away, becoming one of The Ignored? Little structures the story into three acts: Bob's discovery of his condition, his recruitment into a cadre of \\"Terrorists for the common man\\" (I.E., The IGNORED man), and the eventual discovery of an entire city of the Ignored. The first and last segments resonated deeply with me, the Terrorist segment didn't. Not that the middle section wasn't good, it just didn't grab me the same way as the segments that bookend it. I work in a fairly large health care company, and at times I actually DO feel like I might be invisible to my co-workers, so I felt a real kinship with Bob. The final segment is just stunning; It really took me by surprise, so I won't spoil anything here; I'll just say that Little managed to creep the HELL out of me. In our fast-paced, impersonal world, It's easy to feel alone and ignored; Just be glad you're not Bob Jones....	2003-06-07
US	42627253	R2AU4KYNJT5E3C	1569716005	777351788	Lone Wolf & Cub 28: Lotus Throne	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The End of The Assassin's Road	After 28 HUGE volumes, Lone Wolf and Cub finally comes to an end. On the one hand, I couldn't WAIT for the series to end, so I could see what happened to Itto Ogami and his son, Daigoro. Would they have their revenge against the Yagyu clan at last...? On the other hand, I knew I'd miss the characters and the magnificent work of creators Kazuo Koike & Goseki Kojima....Well, I've finally finished the series, and I miss Daigoro already...<br />  This final installment revolves around the showdown between Ogami & Daigoro and their nemesis, Retsudo Yagyu. Yagyu brings the final remnants of his \\"Grass\\" (Deep-cover Ninja who spend generations infiltrating villages in Japan) to the battlefield, and employs a truly insidious deception against Itto (Which I won't spoil!); I studiously avoided any situation that may have resulted in my discovering the end of the series before I got a chance to read it, and although I had a general idea of how the final battle would play out, I was still moved to tears at the final twenty pages.....<br />  If you haven't experienced any of the Lone Wolf and Cub series, I can't recommend them highly enough. I've been reading comics since I was two years old, and I have NEVER read such a finely wrought story; It ranks among my favorite works of fiction, right alongside Lonesome Dove and The Stand, and that's pretty damned impressive.......	2003-06-04
US	42627253	R3AEU70GND5LZD	1569716005	777351788	Lone Wolf & Cub 28: Lotus Throne	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The End of The Assassin's Road	After 28 HUGE volumes, Lone Wolf and Cub finally comes to an end. On the one hand, I couldn't WAIT for the series to end, so I could see what happened to Itto Ogami and his son, Daigoro. Would they have their revenge against the Yagyu clan at last...? On the other hand, I knew I'd miss the characters and the magnificent work of creators Kazuo Koike & Goseki Kojima....Well, I've finally finished the series, and I miss Daigoro already...<br />  This final installment revolves around the showdown between Ogami & Daigoro and their nemesis, Retsudo Yagyu. Yagyu brings the final remnants of his \\"Grass\\" (Deep-cover Ninja who spend generations infiltrating villages in Japan) to the battlefield, and employs a truly insidious deception against Itto (Which I won't spoil!); I studiously avoided any situation that may have resulted in my discovering the end of the series before I got a chance to read it, and although I had a general idea of how the final battle would play out, I was still moved to tears at the final twenty pages.....<br />  If you haven't experienced any of the Lone Wolf and Cub series, I can't recommend them highly enough. I've been reading comics since I was two years old, and I have NEVER read such a finely wrought story; It ranks among my favorite works of fiction, right alongside Lonesome Dove and The Stand, and that's pretty damned impressive.......	2003-06-04
US	42627253	R1PTA2XLVP9RWU	0785107851	206680523	Wolverine: Blood Debt	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An Impressive Writing Debut By Artist Steve Skroce	Wolverine: Blood Debt is the brainchild of Artist Steve Skroce, who is perhaps best known as the storyboard artist for The Matrix. The story, while following a twisty path of double-and-triple-crosses, is fairly straightforward: Wolverine is drawn into a war for control of The Yakuza (The Japanese Mafia) while in Japan visiting his Foster Daughter. The art is spectacular; It's easy to see Skroce's influence on the visuals of The Matrix. His epic battle scenes in Blood Debt are staggeringly detailed, reminiscent of George Perez in his heyday. Skroce also gets high marks for addressing Logan's Foster Daughter, a character that has gone largely ignored by most Wolverine/X-Men Writers since her introduction. If this IS Skroce's first writing job (I think it is, but I could be wrong..), he does one hell of a job with the characters and their personalities. Skroce has since gone back to Hollywood for The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix: Revolution, but if he does ever come back to the wacky world of Comics, I'll be first in line to buy his new product.	2003-06-03
US	42627253	R2C2ELPBADS355	0785107851	206680523	Wolverine: Blood Debt	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Impressive Writing Debut By Artist Steve Skroce	Wolverine: Blood Debt is the brainchild of Artist Steve Skroce, who is perhaps best known as the storyboard artist for The Matrix. The story, while following a twisty path of double-and-triple-crosses, is fairly straightforward: Wolverine is drawn into a war for control of The Yakuza (The Japanese Mafia) while in Japan visiting his Foster Daughter. The art is spectacular; It's easy to see Skroce's influence on the visuals of The Matrix. His epic battle scenes in Blood Debt are staggeringly detailed, reminiscent of George Perez in his heyday. Skroce also gets high marks for addressing Logan's Foster Daughter, a character that has gone largely ignored by most Wolverine/X-Men Writers since her introduction. If this IS Skroce's first writing job (I think it is, but I could be wrong..), he does one hell of a job with the characters and their personalities. Skroce has since gone back to Hollywood for The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix: Revolution, but if he does ever come back to the wacky world of Comics, I'll be first in line to buy his new product.	2003-06-03
US	42627253	RRGAQCN0M5NWS	0785107851	206680523	Wolverine: Blood Debt	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An Impressive Writing Debut By Artist Steve Skroce	Wolverine: Blood Debt is the brainchild of Artist Steve Skroce, who is perhaps best known as the storyboard artist for The Matrix. The story, while following a twisty path of double-and-triple-crosses, is fairly straightforward: Wolverine is drawn into a war for control of The Yakuza (The Japanese Mafia) while in Japan visiting his Foster Daughter. The art is spectacular; It's easy to see Skroce's influence on the visuals of The Matrix. His epic battle scenes in Blood Debt are staggeringly detailed, reminiscent of George Perez in his heyday. Skroce also gets high marks for addressing Logan's Foster Daughter, a character that has gone largely ignored by most Wolverine/X-Men Writers since her introduction. If this IS Skroce's first writing job (I think it is, but I could be wrong..), he does one hell of a job with the characters and their personalities. Skroce has since gone back to Hollywood for The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix: Revolution, but if he does ever come back to the wacky world of Comics, I'll be first in line to buy his new product.	2003-06-03
US	42627253	RYHPZ8XR4WQT6	0785107851	206680523	Wolverine: Blood Debt	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An Impressive Writing Debut By Artist Steve Skroce	Wolverine: Blood Debt is the brainchild of Artist Steve Skroce, who is perhaps best known as the storyboard artist for The Matrix. The story, while following a twisty path of double-and-triple-crosses, is fairly straightforward: Wolverine is drawn into a war for control of The Yakuza (The Japanese Mafia) while in Japan visiting his Foster Daughter. The art is spectacular; It's easy to see Skroce's influence on the visuals of The Matrix. His epic battle scenes in Blood Debt are staggeringly detailed, reminiscent of George Perez in his heyday. Skroce also gets high marks for addressing Logan's Foster Daughter, a character that has gone largely ignored by most Wolverine/X-Men Writers since her introduction. If this IS Skroce's first writing job (I think it is, but I could be wrong..), he does one hell of a job with the characters and their personalities. Skroce has since gone back to Hollywood for The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix: Revolution, but if he does ever come back to the wacky world of Comics, I'll be first in line to buy his new product.	2003-06-03
US	42627253	R1TAT24ZMM3O9T	1569715114	373531237	Lone Wolf & Cub, Volume 10: Hostage Child	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Father and Son Take Different Paths On The Assassin's Road	At last, the true depths of the treacherous Retsudo Yagyu's obsession with Ogami Itto are explored, as he unleashes the dogs of war on the Father &amp; Son. As you can see from the cover, with Frank Miller's stunning rendition of a Wolf and it's Cub standing atop a mountain of bodies, this book features a MAJOR battle scene, as Ogami and Daigoro face a seemingly endless horde of Yagyu's forces. The body count is high, but the true cost of the battle is more personal: Lone Wolf is seperated from his Cub. After the stunning battle between Ogami and Retsudo Yagyu himself, I was wondering how the series could possibly get any better. The stories featuring Daigoro on his own showed me exactly how. Great action, even greater characterization, superb writing and art.....Each volume is better than the previous one, and there are still 18 left!	2003-05-17
US	42627253	R3848SNKCXXWD0	1569715076	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub 6: Lanterns for the Dead	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Hard-Hitting Walk Down The Assassin's Road	How strange is it that one of the most compelling characters in comics today is a toddler who has barely uttered ten words in his comic career (As of Volume 6, anyway.)? Yet, in this world of overwritten characters, Daigoro, the &quot;Cub&quot; of the title, stands head and shoulders above the rest. I continue to be struck dumb by the epic battle scenes, the intricately detailed art in the &quot;Quiet scenes&quot;, and the amount of characterization creators Koike &amp; Kojima can effortlessly cram into a relatively small piece of an epic tale. There are some great moments her between father and son, and Daigoro gets a chance to show his &quot;Meifumado&quot; in the gut-wrenching final chapter. If you've been along for the ride, you don't need me to tell you how great Lone Wolf and Cub can be. If you're among the uninitiated, give Ogami &amp; little Daigoro a try....You won't be sorry!	2003-05-12
US	42627253	R69ABE0UTN5OB	1569715068	987221189	Lone Wolf and Cub 5: Black Wind	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Important Volume On The Assassin's Road	Black Wind is probably the most important volume of Lone Wolf and Cub to date, as we find out the reason why Ogami Itto travels the assassin's road with his son Daigoro. The blueprint for the coming conflict with the Yagyu Clan is laid out, and Itto gains an important new weapon for his quest. As usual, creators Kazuo Koike & Goseki Kojima create a richly layered story, with dazzling action and deep characterization. Highly recommended!	2003-05-11
US	42627253	R3GJ13PJ197GTX	156971505X	393087808	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 4: The Bell Warden	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Amazing Volume!	I've been so blown away by the work Kazuo Koike &amp; Goseki Kojima<BR>that I decided to wait until the entire series was released to finish reading it. After the first three volumes, I didn't really believe they could keep up the same level of quality, and it turns out I was right. <br />  Volume 4 blows the previous three away.<br />  It's worth reading just for the heartbreaking Daigoro solo story, &quot;Parting Frost&quot;, where the toddler sets out in search of his father and makes a very powerful enemy of his own. The other three stories are nothing to sneeze at either, and in addition to great entertainment, the creators also provide some important lessons about the history and culture of Japan in pain-free ways that don't even give you time to realize you've been learning; Perfect for Gaijin's like me!<BR>I can't imagine how this series can possibly get any better. Stay tuned.....	2003-05-11
US	42627253	R258NO7IOISMG2	0785108297	363614541	Black Panther: Enemy Of The State TPB	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Complex, Engrossing Must-Read	Continuing right where the first volume left off (Black Panther: The Client, also highly recommended), Black Panther: Enemy of the State furthers the story of the exiled King of the African nation of Wakanda, T'Challa, also known as The Black Panther. Forced to stay in New York, lest civil war engulf his country thanks to crazed new ruler Achebe, The Panther becomes aware of a complex plot against him that I honestly can't even BEGIN to encapsulate here- It's just TOO confusing. (Not too confusing to follw, mind you; Just too much to be laid out here. You really need to experience it yourself.) The book hurtles along at a breakneck pace, rocketing towards a conclusion that may just be a little bit too over-the-top to fit with the rest of the book's tone (The giant deathtrap at the end just defied all logic), and writer Christopher Priest manages to tell an incredibly complex yarn, and not only make it a engrossing, but also humorous, suspenseful, and riveting. The art by Joe Jusko and M.D. Bright doesn't quite mesh with the chapters illustrated by Mike Manley, but that's a small beef, as all involved with the book do a top-notch job.<br /> Marvel recently announced the cancellation of their monthly Black Panther series, which doesn't bode well for future collected editions, which is a damned shame. Black Panther isn't the kind of book I'd want to pick up on a monthly basis, as I think the stories are too complex to be rewarding in that format. They really deserve to be read in big chunks for best effect. Meanwhile, Priest is writing a new book for Marvel, The Crew. I'll be purchasing that book to see if he can create the same sense of wonder he did with Black Panther.	2003-05-10
US	42627253	R21YPI4WQF52K1	1587670429	252885463	Triage	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Duck and Cover!	Triage gathers three of the leading lights of horror fiction, Jack Ketchum, Edward Lee, and the late Richard Laymon, under one cover for a hellacious trio of novellas all spun off of the same premise: A man walks into a place of business with a gun, and starts shooting....<br />  Richard Laymon leads off with the title story, \\"Triage\\". He takes the most straightforward approach to the subject matter, with a grim tale of Sharon, a woman trapped in an office building with the madman who just killed all of her co-workers. Laymon hammers the reader with all manner of grotesque, twisted doings, so faint-hearted readers might want to give this a pass. The more daring reader will find Triage to be a fast-paced walk on the dark side; Laymon makes his heroine too real for this to be chalked up as mere exploitation. I actually had a few moments where I was afraid to find out what was going to happen to poor Sharon next....Now how many books have YOU read lately that got a reaction that visceral out of you..? Laymon was one hell of a writer, and I'm sorry I didn't discover him until after his untimely death. He left a great legacy behind, though....<br />  Edward Lee's story also stars a heroine named Sharon, but his take on the subject couldn't be more different. \\"In The Year Of Our Lord: 2202\\" takes place in outer space, aboard a ship bound for a top-secret destination. Lee quickly gets away from the book's theme, and spins his story off in a totally different direction, effortlessly combining theology, sci-fi, and horror into a gripping, fast-paced tale. I'm generally not much of a Sci-Fi fan, so for Lee's story to grab me the way it did is really a neat trick. I was absolutely floored by the ending. This is a must-read.<br />  Last, but not least, is \\"Sheep Meadow Story\\", by Jack Ketchum. It's the shortest story, and although I liked it a lot, I thought it was the weakest one due to it's far-fetched ending. It's a more down-to-Earth story than it's companion pieces, but it manages to be funny, creepy, and touching all at once. Ketchum is clearly a VERY talented storyteller.<br />  The book is part of a limited-edition of 1500, signed by Ketchum & Lee, and Editor Matt Johnson. (Richard Laymon passed away before publication.) As you would expect from the always dependable publisher, Cemetery Dance, the book is just gorgeous. The only problem is this: Stories of this caliber deserve to be seen by more people than this limited-edition could possibly reach. In a perfect world, these three Authors would be topping the best-seller list....manages to be funny, creepy, and touching all at once. Ketchum is clearly a VERY talented storyteller.<br />  The book is part of a limited-edition of 1500, signed by Ketchum & Lee, and Editor Matt Johnson. (Richard Laymon passed away before publication.) As you would expect from the always dependable publisher, Cemetery Dance, the book is just gorgeous. The only problem is this: Stories of this caliber deserve to be seen by more people than this limited-edition could possibly reach. In a perfect world, these three Authors would be topping the best-seller list....	2003-05-07
US	42627253	R1OMVM41BWYSDJ	0312275412	554649792	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror : Fourteenth Annual Edition	Books	1	7	23	N	N	Snnorrrrre Snnnorrrreeeee	For some reason, the folks at Amazon keep posting my reviews for this series in the wrong place, so expecting that to happen again this time, let me clarify: The review is covering the FOURTEENTH edition.<br /> Years ago, I made the mistake of taking \\"The Year's Best\\" title seriously, and rushed out and bought all the books in the series I could get my hands on. That turned out to be a BIG mistake, as Editors Ellen Datlow & Terri Windling seem to have very different ideas from me about what makes a good story. Luckily, this is the last volume I was unfortunate enough to purchase.<br /> I'll skip the usual complaints this time out. I won't rant about the overlong year-in-review segments. I won't mention the fact that Windling's Fantasy selections monopolixe the book. I won't utter a word about Windling's bizarre penchant for poetry and rehashed versions of older-than-dirt fairy-tales. I'll concentrate on the stories that were actually readable.<br />Charles de Lint contributes another Newford story, \\"Granny Weather\\"; As usual, it's a good read.<BR>Ramsey Campbell offers up two creepy little gems, \\"No Strings\\", and \\"No Story In It\\".<BR>Jack Dann's \\"Marilyn\\" turns a young boy's sexual fantasy into a waking nightmare. <BR>Glen Hirschberg's \\"Mr. Dark's Carnival\\" is a great haunted house tale.<BR>Ian Rodwell & Steve Duffy's \\"The Penny Drops\\" is waaayyy too long, but the knockout ending makes the suffering worthwhile.<BR>Bret Lott's \\"The Train, The Lake, The Bridge\\" could almost be a true story, and it's all the creepier for that.<BR>Jonathan Carroll's \\"The Heidelberg Cylinder\\" is a hilariously bizarre tale that needs to be read to be appreciated.<BR>Jack Ketchum contributes \\"Gone\\", a short but excellent halloween tale.<BR>Paul J. McAuley's \\"Bone Orchards\\" is a follow up to his tale from the previous Year's collection, \\"Naming The Dead\\"; It's a real treat, and I'd love to see more with the main character.<br /> Search out the aforementioned Authors, by all means; Just don't waste your money on this stankass series....unless you have MUCH more patience than me.	2003-05-07
US	42627253	RL1MJOJZL2T2I	0785107940	118469466	Spider-Man: Visionaries (Marvel Visionaries)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Romita Rules!	Among true Marvel Zombies, the name John Romita is synonymous with clean, attractive art and great storytelling. He's contributed to just about every character Marvel has, and his run on Spider-Man (Filling the spot vacated by Spidey co-creator Steve Ditko! Not exactly a cushy assignment; Talk about having tough shoes to fill!) is the stuff of legends. For fans who haven't been reading comics since they were in diapers, this is a great collection- It presents Romita's first four issues (Where the identity of The Green Goblin is at last revealed, The Rhino is introduced, and Spidey butts heads with the pumped-up son of his eternal nemesis, J. Jonah Jameson, and we finally get a look at the future Mrs. Spider-Man, Mary Jane Watson.), along with a selection of five other issues, including the classic \\"Spider-Man No More!\\", a two-part Kingpin story, and Romita's favorite Spider-Man story, the two-part Flash Thompson Vietnam story co-starring Dr. Strange.<br />  For old fogeys like me, though, the book is just OK. I've seen these stories a million times before; That's ok, since they're classics, but I was expecting interesting behind-the-scenes tidbits from Mr. Romita, and aside from a few small blurbs that introduce the stories, there's really nothing new here. The stories are newly re-colored, but aside from a STUNNING looking color job by Digital Chameleon in the last chapter, they stay a little too close to the original limited-palette, and end up looking bland by comparison. (The color job in that last chapter makes Romita's already gorgeous art look simply staggering!)<br />  All told, this is a feast for fans of Spider-Man and John Romita, as well as fans of the immortal prose of Stan Lee. Just as an aside, I'd like to thank Mr. Romita for the years of enjoyment I've derived from his exquisite art. It's been a great ride, and I hope there's more to come!	2003-05-05
US	42627253	RXA38A8C79IA1	1840234164	315864408	Slaine: The King (2000 AD Collector's Editions)	Books	1	4	18	N	N	Awful, Ugly, & Pointless	Slaine The King is the creation of Pat Mills, one of the most influential British Comic creators of the 1970's and 1980's. His work on such books as Judge Dredd, Nemesis the Warlock, and (My favorite!) Marshal Law has become the stuff of legends across the pond, and even here in the States via reprints of his material from Great Britan's weekly 2000 A.D. comic. I'd been hearing about Slaine since I was a kid, so I thought I'd give Slaine The King a try.<br />  Ucch.<br />  The story revolves around Slaine, a Celtic barbarian, and his unsavory dwarf companion, Ukko; Having been banished from his tribe, Slaine and Ukko wander Tir-Nan-Og, battling Druids and various and sundry monsters. And that's about it.....<BR>The writing is a barely comprehensible mixture of Celtic oaths and turgid prose, and the art is a mixed bag: The half of the book illustrated by Glenn Fabry (Famous for his covers for DC/Vertigo's \\"Preacher\\") is extremely well done, with clean, easy to follow art. The half illustrated by Mike McMahon is awful. Strangely exaggerated figures, dark, muddled panels, bizarre page layouts....They all serve to make the action hard to follow, none of which serves the story, which really ISN'T WORTH following. Perhaps the two volumes collecting \\"Slaine: The Horned God\\" will be more palatable because of the color art by Simon Bisley. Anyone looking for a well-told barbarian epic should seek out Marvel's \\"Essential Conan the Barbarian\\" instead, and avoid this expensive mess altogether.	2003-05-03
US	42627253	R3396D2AFF1Q5A	031226416X	24536187	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror : Thirteenth Annual Collection	Books	1	1	20	N	N	Tedious, Overblown, Pretentious, Overwritten......	I really can't be bothered doing my usual story-by-story review, since most of the stories stunk. I'm not a big Fantasy fan, so my distaste for the Fantasy side of the book shouldn't be a big surprise. I'll just reiterate my usual complaint about Fantasy Editor Terri Windling's half (More like 2/3rd's..) of the book: Waaaaayyy too much Fantasy, to the point where the Horror stories get short shrift. Ellen Datlow's Horror selections also leave a lot to be desired, as the truly distinctive voices of modern Horror fiction, like Bentley Little, Jack Ketchum, Edward Lee, Richard Laymon, et al, continue to not be represented, while told-by-rote Victorian-era wannabes dominate the book.<br /><br />  (My original review was much longer, and I did single out particular stories/Authors for praise, and recommended some of the individual anthologies, but the review-censorship gang at Amazon saw fit to chop off four whole paragraphs of my review! Thanks, @ssholes!)	2003-04-22
US	42627253	R2YWK6TOA9ZK0F	1563899507	864550327	Flash, The: Rogues	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Geoff Johns Continues His Epic.......	Rogues is the second volume in DC's reprint series of Writer Geoff John's continuing run on The Flash; (The Flash: Blood Will Run was the first.) This installment is mostly comprised of self-contained stories featuring members of The Flash's Rogues Gallery, but they all figure prominantly in a larger arc that was recently completed in the monthly series. Johns' writing is excellent, as usual, and the art, by Scott Kolins & Doug Hazlewood, is breathtakingly different from the usual Super-Hero fare; Very reminiscent of Geoff Darrow's highly detailed work on Hard Boiled and The Big Guy and Rusty the Boy Robot, and that's high praise indeed. I've never seen Gorilla Grodd look anywhare NEAR as fearsome as he does here.....<br />  The problem with the book is the lack of explanation about certain details that might confound a more casual reader than myself. DC provides a Who's Who page in the front of the book, but the constant references to the breakout of mass-murderer Murmer are bound to confuse newer readers; Murmer was introduced in The Flash: Iron Heights, a one-shot book that takes place between chapters of this book. Why not reprint Iron Heights here, as well as the Secret Files & Origins story (Also referred to here....) that depicted Grodd's bloody capture? Also, one of the chapters takes place in the middle of DC's AWFUL \\"Last Laugh\\" crossover, and anyone who wasn't following that dreadful story will wonder where the heck all of these \\"Jokerized\\" baddies are coming from...<br />  DC has a LOT of catch-up work to do in their trade-paperback program. Marvel comics is offering their collected editions at a comparable quality, a cheaper price-point, and a lower lag-time (Marvel offers their collections almost immediately after the story arc concludes..) than DC's usual year-long wait. And it's a shame DC hasn't seen fit to collect John's first Flash arc before reprinting his second & third...	2003-04-12
US	42627253	R2KDZDCSWN3CD8	091316559X	476215833	Reprisal: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	From A Slow Burn To A Raging Fire.....	Reprisal, the 5th book in F. Paul Wilson's epic \\"Adversary Cycle\\" started off pretty slowly, but by the end he had done something no other Author (Except William Peter Blatty with \\"The Exorcist\\"...) has ever done: Made me want to sleep with the lights on.....<br />  Picking up twenty-some-odd years after \\"Reborn\\" ended, the book focuses on the reborn incarnation of EVIL (So evil he deserves all capitals!), Rasalom, last seen in the first book, \\"The Keep\\". To say just what he's up to, and who he's doing it to, would do a disservice to people who haven't read the series yet. The book is swimming with familiar characters from the previous books, as well as introducing some memorable new ones. After a slow start, Wilson digresses to an extended flashback that had such a bone-chilling effect on me that I actually didn't want to go to sleep. I literally could not put the book down, but I almost dreaded reading further. To say the events depicted in the flashback are disturbing would be an understatement. By the end of the book, Wilson has perfectly set the stage for the final book, Nightworld. I can't wait to read it. Reprisal was THAT GOOD.<br />  Problems..? A few. As I said, the book was a little slow at first, and I really never warmed to one of the main characters, Lisl. The illustrations, by John and Laura Lakey, are pretty bland and nondescript. The only one that really worked for me was the one depicting poor Danny....The cover illustration is amazing, however. Also, the Dark Harvest edition has a TON of spelling/Grammar errors, including Lisl repeatedly being referred to as \\"Lisa\\", and a few paragraphes of total gibberish in the last chapter, including a paragraph that seems to have been dropped in from the next book, Nightworld. Really sloppy. The book looks GREAT however; If you can find a nice Copy of the Dark Harvest book, I'd say grab it.	2003-04-03
US	42627253	R5DNBIVUJQWMS	0971756422	181865452	The Ghost of Silver Cliff	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another Winner From Shoto Press!	Avid readers like myself know the feeling......You're bored, something catches your eye....You decide to pick it up, despite the fact that you've never heard of the Author. There's just something about it that makes you want to give it a try....<br />  Most times, there's a good reason why you've never heard of the Author. But once in a while...Very rarely, just rarely enough to make such occasions special....You stumble onto a real gem. That was the case with my first brush with Shoto Press, \\"Garlands of Moonlight\\", by Jai Sen and Rizky Wasisto Edi, a smashing debut that told the story of a small village in the grip of an unspeakable evil. Great writing, great art, great production values....Garlands had it all! I had both high hopes and worry about being let down when I heard about the follow-up, \\"The Ghost of Silver Cliff\\". Shouldn't have worried...<br />  I was expecting a story in a similar vein, and was happily surprised to see Ghost is a sequel/continuation to Garlands of Moonlight. The book starts off with the two main characters from Garlands confronting the evil that is terrorizing their village, and from there goes off in a totally new direction, making these two characters a kind of Malay Scully/Mulder team; Their adventure this time is more of a mystery than Garlands, and the final revelation of the identity of the killer is just superb. I understand that there are supposed to be 10 volumes in the Malay Mysteries series. That's 9 more than I was expecting, but it still won't be enough to satisfy me if all involved keep up this level of quality. Highly recommended!	2003-03-30
US	42627253	R3J6OSMCLAIZ22	0913165522	477487233	Reborn	Books	3	16	18	N	N	The Adversary Saga Continues	Reborn is book Four in F. Paul Wilson's epic &quot;Adversary&quot; cycle, and it's also the book where the big picture starts to become clear.<br />   Reborn tells the story of Jim Stevens, who, after years of searching for his birth parents, finds out that his natural Father is a recently-deceased Nobel-Prize winning millionaire. Not only that, but Jim has been left his entire estate. Rather than leave well enough alone, Jim continues to dig around for his birth Mother. That's where his troubles begin....<br />   Wilson telegraphs the point of the book by making constant references to Ira Levin's classic &quot;Rosemary's Baby&quot;, which covers the same theological ground.  He does make a VERY unexpected detour about 2/3rd's of the way through the book that really threw me for a loop, though. There are some characters and themes that carry over from the previous books, especially &quot;The Keep&quot;, so DO NOT read Reborn without reading The Keep (Excellent!), The Tomb (Excellent!!), and The Touch (Not bad....).<br />  The Dark Harvest edition is gorgeous, and comes with illustrations by Stephen Garvais. His art is great, but he doesn't always pick the best scenes to represent. All in all, Reborn is a fun, if standard, read. It does what it sets out to do, though: Brings Molosar/Rasolom back with a vengeance....Bring on Reprisal!	2003-03-26
US	42627253	R2E3TEYSTQ18F	0883631105	543023829	Marvel	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	An Excellent Overview of the &quot;Marvel Age&quot; Of Comics	I put off buying Marvel: The Characters and Their Universe because of the price. I finally decided to give in to the temptation, and WOW, am I glad I did! I had an absolute BLAST reading this book.<br />  The book is beautifully designed; It looks, smells, and feels GREAT. It's so attractive that at times I actually hated to open it for fear of getting it dirty. The cover art by Kaare Andrews is just gorgeous. Content-wise, Author Michael Mallory does a nice job of covering the history of the Marvel Bullpen and it's major players (Stan Lee, Jack Kirby, Steve Ditko), and the Marvel Universe and it's major characters (Captain America, The Hulk, Spider-Man, and The X-Men each get extensive chapters of their own, The Fantastic Four, The Avengers, Daredevil, The Silver Surfer, et al, all share smaller chapters). The chapters are lavishly illustrated, and filled with beautiful art from the Comics, Movies, TV shows, and video games that the characters have appeared in. I'm a REAL Marvel Comic afficionado, and not only did I NOT find too many mistakes in the book (A few, but nothing major...), but I actually learned a lot; My favorite tidbit- Captain America co-creator Joe Simon hails from my adopted hometown of Rochester, New York.<br />  Marvel: The Characters and Their Universe is a luxury item, to be sure, but one I'm glad I splurged on. I guarantee any Marvel Zombie will love it.	2003-03-18
US	42627253	RU24DTPON9F6M	1560252731	229033060	Titans: The Heroic Visions of Boris Vallejo and Julie Bell	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Beautiful Art, Bad Text....	Titans mainly covers the art Boris Vallejo and Julie Bell produced for the Marvel Masterworks trasing card series in the mid-80's, with a few covers and misc. art thrown in for good measure. While it's nice to see the art at a larger size, the limited variety of poses gets old after a while. Boris and Julie use each other as models, so most of the faces look alike; The ones that don't look like them are based on bodybuilders, so the female characters have a very hard look to them, facially speaking. The colors are gorgeous, though. The real problem with the book is the text, by Nigel Suckling, who manages to live up to the first syllable of his last name. The book is riddled with spelling errors (Ogum, instead of Ogun), characters have the wrong names attatched to their paintings (Mariko and Yukio's names are transposed, as well as Yukio being called by the wrong name). The text passages show that Suckling didn't bother to get more than a passing familiarity with the comic characters; He describes Spider-Man as being bumbling...? His passages about Boris &amp; Julie's views on time-travel &amp; Geography are hilariously bad.<br />  Titans is a nice book for fans of Boris &amp; Julie; I would have liked more information on their techniques, and their opinions of the pieces, though. Anything to save me from Suckling's turgid prose....	2003-03-11
US	42627253	RSDSL4H6W0DHS	1560253398	441869132	Superheroes: The Heroic Visions of Boris Vallejo and Julie Bell- Featuring X-Men, Spiderman, Spiderwoman, Silver Surfer, The Hulk	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Beautiful Art, Bad Text....	Superheroes (Titled \\"Titans\\" in it's hardcover printing) mainly covers the art Boris Vallejo and Julie Bell produced for the Marvel Masterworks trasing card series in the mid-80's, with a few covers and misc. art thrown in for good measure. While it's nice to see the art at a larger size, the limited variety of poses gets old after a while. Boris and Julie use each other as models, so most of the faces look alike; The ones that don't look like them are based on bodybuilders, so the female characters have a very hard look to them, facially speaking. The colors are gorgeous, though. The real problem with the book is the text, by Nigel Suckling, who manages to live up to the first syllable of his last name. The book is riddled with spelling errors (Ogum, instead of Ogun), characters have the wrong names attatched to their paintings (Mariko and Yukio's names are transposed, as well as Yukio being called by the wrong name). The text passages show that Suckling didn't bother to get more than a passing familiarity with the comic characters; He describes Spider-Man as being bumbling...? His passages about Boris & Julie's views on time-travel & Geography are hilariously bad.<BR>Superheroes is a nice book for fans of Boris & Julie; I would have liked more information on their techniques, and their opinions of the pieces, though. Anything to save me from Suckling's turgid prose....	2003-03-11
US	42627253	R39YLL9XC0MYH2	0060394145	738913049	Mick Foley's Christmas Chaos	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Fun Diversion For Foley Fans	Christmas Chaos is Pro-Wrestling legend Mick (Mankind, Dude Love, Cactus Jack) Foley's first foray into the world of children's books after the mega-success of his autobiographical &quot;Have a Nice Day!&quot; As an older (32) reader, I bought this strictly as a Foley fan, since I have no kids of my own to read it to. On that level, it was a fun diversion; The art, by fellow wrestling legend Jerry &quot;The King&quot; Lawler, is smart and funny and well-rendered. The story itself is kind of weird: Santa begins to question the point of Christmas when his elves &amp; Reindeer begin to act hostile towards him, and decides to cancel Christmas. The funny thing is, this behavior seems to have been brought about by watching WWF (Now WWE) Wrestling! Odd, considering this is a WWF tie-in book. The inclusion of famous-name WWF stars seems forced, but is thankfully brief, considering they contribute nothing to the actual story. With the questionable content, I don't know if I'd recommend Christmas Chaos for very young kids, but older kids will get the uplifting message at the end, and fans like me will enjoy seeing Foley &amp; Lawler conquer a new medium.	2003-03-08
US	42627253	R18Z7S9OB1QYED	0823078841	291336116	Creepshows: The Illustrated Stephen King Movie Guide	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interesting Tidbits, But Gets Tiresome Fast	Creepshows: The Illustrated Stephen King Movie Guide got off on the wrong foot quick by crediting (On the lower back cover) the Berni Wrightson cover illustration to the woman who DESIGNED the cover layout. Very sloppy, especially considering Wrightson's rendition of \\"The Creep\\" is world-famous.....<br /> The book covers all of the films that have sprung, however tenuous the connection may be (Children of the Corn 666), from Mr. King's stories. Stephen Jones does an interesting job of digging up little-known bits of trivia; I'm a King fanatic, and there were quite a few things here that were new to me. The irritating thing is the division of space in the book: A gem like The Green Mile gets the same amount of space as Children of the Corn. Jones devotes too much space to films that have nothing to do with King at all, such as the awful \\"House\\", covered because the main character is a King wannabe. The book is an American reprint of a British book, published in the UK by Titan Books, and the fact that Watson-Guptill couldn't even be bothered to Americanise the Brit spellings gets annoying after 100+ pages of \\"Favourite\\" and \\"Colour\\". Jones also seems to love the word \\"Eponymous\\"- He uses it on almost every page, and one would hope that someone has since bought him a Thesaurous. There's a brief King interview at the end, and the book is heavily illustrated with stills and poster reproductions. King fans will probably enjoy Creepshows a lot, but it could have been better....	2003-03-08
US	42627253	R2Q0MIITBRG65O	0060002514	698469712	Mick Foley's Halloween Hijinx	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Fun Look At My FAVORITE Holiday. BANG-BANG!!!	Halloween Hijinx is the second children's book by Pro-Wrestling legend Mick Foley, and it's even better than his first, Christmas Chaos. Hijinx intertwines the stories of three Human children & three Monster children as they prepare to celebrate Halloween. Foley and artist Jill Thompson have produced a fun, great-looking book; Foley's rhymes are often hilarious and his message of tolerance, acceptance, and the true meaning of halloween is great. Thompson, a famous comic-book artist, contributes some of her most appealing art ever; The colors are just gorgeous! Halloween Hijinx is a fun book sure to be enjoyed by all ages, year after year.	2003-03-08
US	42627253	R2GS4TSKOPOFZH	0451192575	75882587	Donnie Brasco: My Undercover Life in the Mafia - A True Story by FBI Agent Joseph D. Pistone	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	The Flip Side of "Goodfellas"	Joe Pistone is a real American Hero. The former F.B.I agent spent six Years deep undercover as Donnie Brasco, a jewel thief, and infiltrated the Mafia, penetrating it's upper eschalon and bringing their power structure crashing down around their heads, resulting in over 100 convictions...<br />  Pistone, along with Richard Woodley, does a great job of bringing real-life Wiseguys like \\"Lefty Guns\\", \\"Sonny Black\\", and Tony Mirra to life on the printed page, and even though I know Pisone survived his ordeal (He obviously did- He wrote the book!), I was still constantly worried about him. Any fan of true-crime will love Donnie Brasco!	2003-03-02
US	42627253	R290MHNJG5RNFE	0451455509	688583236	Dark Love: 22 All-Original Tales of Lust and Obsession	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Anthology the Way It Oughta Be Done!!	I've had bad luck in the past with Horror anthologies, so I put off reading Dark Love for a few Years after purchasing it. I should have had more faith in the Editors, because this is a rock-solid book, with not a dud to be found.<br />  The book starts off with Stephen King's \\"Lunch at the Gotham Cafe, where a man and his soon-to-be-ex-wife find themselves confronted with a demented Maitre d'. The story is good (As most King stories are), but I found it more comedic than it seems to have been intended to be. (The way the Maitre d' keeps screaming \\"EEEEEEE!!!!\\" just struck me as funny...)<BR>From there, the late, great Michael O'Donaghue contributes \\"The Psycho\\", a crazed Gunman on the loose story with a great twist ending.<BR>Next is Kathe Koja's \\"Pas de Deux\\", probably the most realistic story in the book. It wasn't really my cup of tea, but it was well-written, and it had its moments.<BR>Basil Copper's \\"Bright Blades Gleaming\\" is waaaay too long, and I saw the end coming a mile off, but again, it was a well-told tale. It could have been better if it was shorter, though.<BR>John Lutz offers \\"Hanson's Radio\\", a tale of urban neighbors getting on each others nerves that I, a former Bronx apartment dweller, totally related to.<BR>David J. Schow's \\"Refrigerator Heaven\\" is a chilling (Pun intended) tale of Mob torture gone HORRIBLY wrong. This story stuck with me for a long time after I finished reading it.<BR>Ro Erg, by Robert Weinberg, starts as a bit of credit-card fraud whimsey, and goes off into totally unexpected territory.<BR>Ramsey Campbell's \\"Going Under\\" quite frankly reeked, and I won't devote any of my time to describing it. (I guess there WAS one dud...)<BR>Stuart Kaminsky's \\"Hidden\\" is an absolute gem; One of the best short stories I've ever read. It concerns a young boy who slaughters his family and devises an ingenious method of hiding from the law. The ending revelation is an absolute stunner.<BR>\\"Prism\\", by Wendy Webb, is a short about Multiple-Personality Disorder that puts you in the head of the narrator. Short, but well-done.<BR>The late Richard Laymon contributes \\"The Maiden\\", a dark tale of teenage lust, revenge, and the Supernatural. After reading this story, I've become a Laymon fan, and I'm hard at work collecting all of his books. The Maiden was THAT good....<BR>Flaming Carrot/Mystery Men creator Bob Burden pens the hilariously demented \\"You've Got Your Troubles, I've Got Mine\\"; I felt dirty for laughing, but it was just so damned funny...Who knew Burden could write prose? Good job, Bob! More fun than a Spider in diapers!<BR>George C. Chesbro offers \\"Waco\\", a creepy look at the inside of the Koresh Compound in it's last moments, as they're visited by a sardonic Vulture claiming to be God himself...<BR>John Peyton Cooke's \\"The Penitent\\" is an S&M story that strong-stomached readers will find enjoyable. (I loved it.)<BR>Kathryn Ptacek takes road-rage to a new level in \\"Driven\\"; I didn't really care for the ending, though...<BR>John Shirley's \\"Barbara\\" is an interesting heist-gone-bad tale.<BR>\\"Hymenoptera\\", by Michael Blumlein, features a Fashion Designer becoming obsessed aith an 8-Foot long Wasp (!). Weird and pointless, but I liked it nonetheless....<BR>\\"The End of It All\\", by Ed Gorman, is a tale of Lust, Incest, Murder, & Revenge. Would make a GREAT movie...<BR>\\"Heat\\", by Lucy Taylor, is forgettable, but short, so at least she makes her sick point quickly.<br />Nancy A. Collins' \\"Thin Walls\\" will resonate with apartment dwellers everywhere.<BR>Karl Edward Wagner's \\"Locked Away\\" is a fun psuedo-porn fantasy that made me chuckle more than a few times.<BR>The book closes with Douglas E. Winter's \\"Loop\\", a tale of obsession taken to a WHOLE other level.<br />  Dark Love is probably the BEST anthology I've even read. I highly recommend it.	2003-03-02
US	42627253	R1838JDP5C28PF	1569717958	759979906	Ancient Joe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Instant Classic From Scott Morse....	Ancient Joe is one of those stories that needs to be experienced firsthand; No amount of summation can convey the delightful quirkiness of ANY of Scott Morse's books, and Ancient Joe is no exception. Joe is a mystery man who fears his deceased wife's soul has been captured by his arch-enemy, El Diablo. Joe finds a pair of unlikely allies in his attempt to reach Hell in an old friend and his young Daughter, who is seemingly able to communicate with Hell and it' denizens. Morse is one of those rare creators who can give distinctive voices to all of his characters, and can flow effortlessly from gentle humor to chilling creepiness; The scenes between Joe and the young girl are especially effective in that respect. Morse takes a relatively static talking-head scene, and, through dialogue alone, makes it frightening. I also loved Joe's confrontation with El Diablo; Morse did a great job with El's dialogue; &quot;Stay outta my Hell...&quot; indeed! Any book by Morse is a cause to rejoice, and Ancient Joe cements his growing reputation as a master storyteller. I also recommend Morse's excellent gangster saga, Volcanic Revolver, and his super-heroic veggie, Magic Pickle.	2003-02-14
US	42627253	R2S59PWY3KJBH0	1891830317	91991278	Three Fingers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An Interesting Spin on "Roger Rabbit" Territory...	The basic premise of \\"three fingers\\" is fairly simple: A \\"Behind The Music\\" type documentary about a Walt Disney-esque man, in a world where cartoons aren't drawings, but opressed minorities. The Mickey Mouse of this story is Ricky Rat, who becomes the first 'toon star. Ricky has a secret to his success, though, and other 'toons suffered in their attempts to replicate his rise to fame....      Creator Rich Koslowski (The Three Geeks) does a great job of keeping a documentary feel to the book; The lush art perfectly captures that newsreel look you'd expect. The problem for me lay with the books mysterious \\"Ritual\\": The revelation of just WHAT the ritual is turns out to be a big letdown. (Koslowski manages to mine a truly chilling moment from \\"The Ritual\\", though- The interview with the Daffy Duck character...) It was fun to match up the characters in the book with their real-life Warner Bros. and Disney counterparts.      Three Fingers isn't a masterpiece; It is a fun read, though, and deserves a wider audience among Graphic Novel fans.	2003-02-12
US	42627253	R3H2DZH4146ALR	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Like A Bullet in the Head......	His last name may be Boring, but his story sure isn't.....When his \\"Friend\\" is mysteriously murdered (The wound that killed him apparently looks like a giant thumb-print in his forehead), David's life takes a turn towards the surreal: His dream girl mysteriously disappears, he is shot in the head for (Seemingly...) no reason, and when he is taken to a deserted island to recuperate, World War III seems to break out, complete with germ-warfare. <br />  Writer/Illustrator Dan Clowes continues to deliver books that are impossible to encapsulate, yet impossible to put down. I literally had no idea where the story (And characters) would end up, but I couldn't wait to see them arrive. Murder, infidelity, terrorism....It's all a part of the mix, and Clowes does a wonderful job of making all of the pieces fit. If Clowes is capable of producing work that ISN'T groundbreaking, it'd be news to me. Highly recommended!	2003-02-10
US	42627253	RZR2AZW77FSWH	1550224980	212401990	Missy Hyatt: First Lady of Wrestling	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Light, Fun Read Sure To Entertain Wrestling Fans	I remember having a HUGE crush on Missy Hyatt when I was 16. She was the highlight of every week's episode of UWF Wrestling; The action was great, but I struggled with the reception of the UHF channel so I could see Missy, not Hacksaw Jim Duggan or The One Man Gang. (No offense to them!)<br />  Well, in the wake of Mick \\"Mankind\\" Foley's smash Autobiographical books \\"Have A Nice Day!\\" & \\"Foley Is Good\\", Missy has penned her own story, with the help of Writers Charles Salzberg & Mark Goldblatt. I was expecting a sleazy bedroom tell-all, and what I got couldn't have been farther from that. It's actually a rather tame book, and Missy comes across as a sweet girl who led a somewhat wild life. She breaks the book down into brief chapters revolving around her tenures with the various Wrestling organizations (WCCW, WCW, UWF, WWF, ECW, etc.), and tells some wickedly funny stories about some of the people she met and worked with. There are a few sex-partner stories, but they don't get into explict detail. (She does tell VERY funny anecdotes about Ric Flair, Val Venis, and The Freebirds in particular.) She's got a pretty good sense of humor, and reading the book is almost like meeting an old friend you haven't seen in years and hearing an summary of what they've been up to. Unfortunately, Missy doesn't mention her recent foray into soft-core internet sites...  <br />  The book is VERY short; I'd estimate it only took a few hours to read. But when I was done, I wished it had been longer. It's a fun read, and the book is loaded with pictures, both color & black-and-white. Wrestling fans will have a ball reading this book.	2003-02-08
US	42627253	R24YKZK1AQI22C	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Social Satire In The Tradition of Gilliver's Travels	Forget the movies- You won't find Taylor or Leo Davidson here. No \\"Get your stinking hands off of me...\\"; The concept is the same (Astronaut is marooned on a planet populated by \\"Civilized\\" Apes), but the execution is totally different.<br />  While the movies are heavily tilted towards action/adventure, the book that inspired them is a satire in the vein of Jonathan Swift's classic \\"Gulliver's Travels\\". Author Pierre Boulle uses the off-kilter premise to hold a mirror up to the audience, allowing the reader to get a different perspective on animal rights, and the foibles of humanity in general.<br />  After crashing on the Planet Soror, Astronaut Ulysse Merou is captured by the talking, intelligent Apes who dominate the world, and taken to a lab, where he is the subject of an experiment made famous on Earth by Pavlov. Here he meets some Apes that will seem familiar to fans of the films: Zira, Cornelius, and Dr. Zaius. The book takes a more intellectual approach than the films; A lot of time is spent delving into the mysterious origin of the Ape civilization, and it's easy to see why the filmmakers opted for a more action-packed approach. It works well in print, but on the screen, it would be a snooze-fest. The book dragged in places, but it's a quick read overall. The end is every bit as memorable as the first film's famous Statue of Liberty scene, and it's fun to see the bits and pieces of the book that were cannibalized for the films, like the way the plight of Ulysse and his family inspired the third Apes film, Escape From The Planet of the Apes. I had trouble with the \\"Ancestral Memory\\" plot device Boulle uses to reveal the story of the rise of the Apes, but that's a small quibble. I found Planet of the Apes to be a wickedly fun read, and it gave me a lot to think about after turning the last page. Plus, it made me want to see the films all over again!	2003-02-07
US	42627253	R2R9RB3HBBP1RB	0970678495	84064671	Alan Moore Magic Words Volume 1	Books	1	15	17	N	N	Very Disappointing....	I'm a HUGE fan of Alan Moore; He's written some of the greatest graphic novels of all time (From Hell, V For Vendetta, Miracleman, Batman: The Killing Joke), and his run on Swamp Thing changed the face of horror comics forever, giving birth to a style of writing that would spawn huge talents like Grant Morrison and Neil Gaiman, among others...<br />  So it's with a VERY heavy heart that I report that not only did I NOT enjoy Magic Words, I actually regretted buying it. The book was solicited (By publisher Avatar Comics) as a collection of short stories; It's actually a few of Moore's song lyrics interpreted by a group of European artists. The art was varied, ranging from decent to ultra-detailed, but the stories themselves (Actually the lyrics..) do NOT make for compelling reading. If reading song lyrics and looking at an artists interpretations of those lyrics is your thing, you'll probably like Magic Words. I found it to be very pretentious and self-important. I'll be very careful about checking into the content of Avatar books before buying from now on.....(Sorry Alan! You're STILL my favorite Writer, though!)	2003-02-03
US	42627253	R1CAUGLQ1ET6YA	0785108882	869383451	Marvel Visionaries Gil Kane TPB	Books	1	15	20	N	N	The Artwork Shines, But the Stories Aren't Up To Snuff....	Visionary is certainly a fitting description of the late Gil Kane. His career as an Artist spanned decades, and his unique perspectives and \\"camera angles\\" influenced countless artists. It's only fitting that Marvel honor him with his own volume in the \\"Visionaries\\" series.<br />  If you're coming into this book to appreciate Kane's art, you'll love it; If you're going to judge the book by the overall package, as I'm doing here, it leaves a lot to be desired. The book starts out with a nice introduction by Kane's frequent collaborator, Writer/Editor Roy Thomas. From there we get a series of stories that span Kane's career at Marvel. The problem here is, most of the stories aren't especially well-written. There's a brief (And dreadful!) Hulk story that absolutely belonged here, since it was Kane's first published work at Marvel. After that is a drawn-out four-part Captain America story, which is notable for the first pairing of Kane and Inker Joe Sinnott. The Adam Warlock story is overwritten (By the aforementioned Roy Thomas) to the point of stupefaction, as is their first Captain Marvel issue, and the Jim Shooter scripted \\"What If...?\\" #3 is maybe the worst comic I've ever read. Tony Isabella's \\"What If...Gwen Stacy hadn't died?\\" fares MUCH better; I remember reading that story when I was just a kid, and it hasn't lost any of it's power. It's one of the most heart-wrenching Marvel stories ever. Kane and Thomas team up again, for the semi-readable origin of Iron Fist, and Shooter contributes an intelligence-insulting Daredevil story. There's an ok Kid-Colt western short, and a real blast-from-the-past Stan Lee Spider-Man issue, from Marvel's socially-conscious days, that deals with overcrowded prisons. The book closes with some sketch, pencil, and pencil/ink pages, including the uncensored version of one of the Kid-Colt pages (Marvel doesn't allow exit wounds to be depicted in their books, which makes drawing a gunfight a little tough!). Some of the pencil roughs are from issues that are VASTLY superior to the ones reprinted in this book, such as the \\"Death of Gwen Stacy\\" and the introduction of The Abomination; Too bad they didn't toss those stories into the book.... <br />  The art is beautiful, and I hope Kane's family makes a few bucks off of this book, but people looking for a great read will probably want to look elsewhere.....	2003-02-03
US	42627253	R6H7M6R8JQJ5T	0970678487	589301804	Warren Ellis' Bad World	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Disturbing Stuff From A Disturbed Mind....	Bad World came as something of a surprise to me. I was expecting a more traditional story; What Writer Warren Ellis delivers is an extended essay/monologue about various and sundry disturbed and disturbing individuals Ellis has (Supposedly) found through the internet. The reader is bombarded with literally dozens of bizarre stories, each more outlandish and horrific than the last, including, but not limited to, Alien Abduction, Cannibalism, Necrophilia, Beastiality, weird Presidential candidates, etc. The art, by Jacen Burrows, is ok; nothing exceptional, but the single-page illustrations and double-page spreads do a decent job of conveying Ellis' ideas. Are the stories you'll encounter in Bad World true? Who knows. In the end, does it really matter? Ellis does a great job of stringing them together, and if you have a high tolerance for disturbing subject matter, you'll probably enjoy Bad World.	2003-01-31
US	42627253	R1F63VWS7I6W45	0140252622	347237369	The Barrytown Trilogy	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Never mind The Bollocks; It's The Rabbittes!	Roddy Doyle must be some kind of genius...I was absolutely hooked right from page 1 of The Barrytown Trilogy, which collects Doyle's three books about The Rabbitte family, a large, loving clan in working-class Dublin, Ireland.<br />  The first book is The Commitments, which details the efforts of young Jimmy Rabbitte Jr. to form a soul band, not an easy task in mid-80's Ireland. The second book, The Snapper, revolves around Jimmy Jr.'s sister Sharon; She's pregnant (Out of wedlock), and won't reveal who the father is. The final book, The Van, centers on their recently unemployed dad, Jimmy Sr.; He teams up with his pal Bimbo to buy a Chip Van, and hilarity ensues...<br />  Doyle peppers the books with Irish slang that might slide right past most American readers, but don't let that deter you; You'll be up to speed in no time. The characters are wonderfully written, and it's a real joy to read about a LOVING Irish family for a change. I laughed out loud more times than I could count, and I loved the book so much I finished it in no time. And then I was sad it was over....Highly recommended. You'll laugh, you'll cry, and you'll wish you were a Rabbitte!	2003-01-28
US	42627253	RJ2E1BCCG23E4	1569715041	46933149	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 3: The Flute of the Fallen Tiger	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Astoundingly Well-Done!	With Flute of the Fallen Tiger, Volume 3 in the epic Lone Wolf and Cub saga, creators Kazuo Koike & Goseki Kojima take the series from mere greatness to a whole new level of perfection. Assassin-for-hire Ogami Itto and his infant son Daigoro continue to travel the assassin's road, meeting new friends and foes, most of whom wind up dead in short order. My favorite tale in this volume was \\"Half Mat, One Mat, A Fistful of Rice\\", where Father and Son meet a mysterious street beggar who implores Itto to spare Daigoro from a life of killing and hatred; He's so determined to save Daigoro that he's willing to gamble his own life. Another story, \\"The White Path Between the Rivers\\", tells of the birth of Daigoro and the events that led Father and Son to travel the assassin's road.<br />  There are some really memorable stories here, and somehow the creators manage to make each installment better than the last; It's tough to believe that there are 25 more volumes left; I for one can't wait to see what comes next. I highly recommend Lone Wolf and Cub; Not just for a good read, but also for it's fascinating insights into Japanese history and culture.	2003-01-28
US	42627253	RGGPPNP8V1OK9	189390511X	742305199	Kimota! The Miracleman Companion	Books	4	18	19	N	N	An Illumunating Look At The Series That Set A New Standard	When a virtually unknown Englishman named Alan Moore revived a long-dormant British Super-Hero as a serial in the pages of Warrior magazine, no one knew that the entire comic industry was about to be rocked to it's very foundations...<br /> Over Twenty Years later, George Khoury and Two Morrows Publishing take a look back at the twisty history of Marvelman (Renamed Miracleman to avoid a lawsuit from Marvel Comics), and what a history it is! Khoury interviews all involved, from the man who created Marvelman in the 50's, Mick Anglo, to the Writer and Artist of his last published incarnation, Neil Gaiman & Mark Buckingham. The interviews shed new light on what appears to be a cursed book: Bankruptcy, shattered friendships, copyright and trademark lawsuits, the list goes on and on....By the end of the book it seems as if no one had ever really bothered to secure the rights to the character AT ALL, and the legal quagmire that has enveloped Marvelman/Miracleman may never be resolved...<br /> In addition to the interviews, the book also features an extensive sketchbook section by artist John Totleben, a never before seen 8-page strip (Lux Brevis) by Moore and Totleben, Moore's original Marvelman proposal/script, and art from the unpublished Miracleman #25. Reading Kimota made me want to read the Miraclaman saga all over again; Here's hoping the legal issues can be resolved someday, so a new generation of readers can discover this seminal work, and the longtime fans can finally see the end of the story.	2003-01-27
US	42627253	R4UBXGJ0YHAAM	0785109250	540651327	The Mighty Thor Book 1: The Death of Odin	Books	3	13	14	N	N	The King Is Dead....Long Live The King!	Since the book is called The Death of Odin, I don't think I'm spoiling any surprises when I say that, YES, Odin does indeed die. For now, anyway. I mean, as much as Writer Dan Jurgens says this is for real, we all know that as soon as someone else gets a chance, they'll bring him back; I mean, this is Marvel Comics! No one stays dead except for Uncle Ben & Bucky!<br />  But for now, Odin is dead; We even get to see the body, which is unheard of in comics. The first half of the book details the battle waged between the Asgardian Gods and Surtur, a being so powerful that Norse Mythology credits him with ripping the core out of Midgard (Earth) and hurling it into space, creating our Moon. Hopelessly overpowered, things are looking bleak indeed for our heroes and Heroines, until Odin intervenes, sacrificing himself to strike down Surtur. The remainder of the book witnesses Thor's less than willing ascension to power as Lord of Asgard. The last half of the book is very strong; Jurgens really does a good job of portraying Thor's nobility, and the devotion he felt to his deceased Father. The first half doesn't work quite as well.....I don't read Thor every month, but I have a pretty good level of familiarity with the book and it's characters; Anyone who doesn't will be totally lost. If Marvel hopes to make these trade paperbacks accessable to new readers, they need to invest in some new material, namely a \\"Who's Who\\" or \\"What has gone before...\\" page. I knew Jake Olsen was Thor's civillian identity, but: Why does his partner seem to be from Asgard also?; Why does his Doctor know he's Thor?; Why does his Doctor's Husband ALSO seem to be from Asgard? Who or what is \\"Thor-Girl\\", and why the heck is she so powerful? I knew the answers already, or was able to piece them together from books I had read already, but I'm not sure how much of this would make sense to a newcomer. Newer readers might also wonder why the last story has no words: A while back, Marvel decided that everybook they published in that particular Month would be a \\"Silent\\" issue, telling the story in pictures only. It works well here- Jurgens tells an emotional tale in which various Asgardians reminisce about their fallen King. <br />  The Art, by Stuart Immonen, is very bland, and isn't good at conveying the epic battle sequence Jurgens seems to be trying for; Jurgens, for his part, doesn't make Surtur seem like much of a threat; Walt Simonson, in his legendary Thor run, almost had Surtur destroy the entire Marvel Universe. Here he seem like nothing but a big flaming dude with a sword. I'd recommend this book for the last half only....	2003-01-25
US	42627253	R1RX4CQCPTMZWH	0785107894	548413040	Black Panther Vol. 1: The Client	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Different Kind of Super-Hero Book	Black Panther is probably one of the least respected characters ever to emerge from the Stan Lee/Jack Kirby era of comics. He's been around forever, has a great pedigree, and has had some top-notch talents take a crack at him, yet he's never really been embraced by the readers. Looks like his time has finally come....<br />  Writer Christopher Priest (Quantum & Woody) has done the seemingly impossible, and made The Panther interesting! Rather than just concentrating on his crime-fighting, Priest focuses on The Panthers role as King of the African nation of Wakanda, a phenomenally wealthy Country caught up in a brutal civil war. When The Panther leaves his troubled Nation to avenge a child's murder in Brooklyn, he finds himself caught up in a web of political intrigue and Supernatural terror.....(Although, come to think of it, The Panther isn't really TOO terrified; He's a pretty cool customer.)<br />   As Priest explains in his introduction, his goal in reviving The Black Panther was to make The Panther a distant, mysterious character; He succeeds admirably on that front. By keeping the reader from being privy to the inner workings of King T'Challa's mind, he becomes an almost mythic figure of menace and mystery. His final showdown with Mephisto is unforgettable. The art (By Mark Texiera & Vince Evans) is great, and fits the mood perfectly. The only problem with the book is one that seems all too common for Marvel trade paperbacks: A double-page spread is misprinted; Instead of being printed on facing pages, you have to turn the page to see the second half. Doesn't anyone proof these things? Other than that, Black Panther: The Client is a phenomenal read; I highly recommend it.	2003-01-21
US	42627253	R1WSKLFIDNZ56A	1569717540	593014131	1: Doomworld (Star Wars: A Long Time Ago..., Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Blast From the Past (When Comics weren't Just For Adults!)	I was 6 when Star Wars was first unleashed on the public, and I was lucky enough to have a Mom that supported her young son's comic-book reading habit; The biggest problem of any comic reader in those long-forgotten days was spotty newsstand distribution- It was almost impossible to collect EVERY issue of your favorite comic.....for almost 25 years I've been wondering how Luke and company managed to get off of that Water Planet in Star Wars #14....<br />   THANK GOD FOR DARK HORSE! My wondering days are over! Doomworld collects issues 1-20 of Marvel's original Star Wars series in glorious full-color, on beautiful paper with great production values. The book opens with an incredibly faithful adaptation of the movie, then goes off into some surprising territory: Han and Chewie star in an outer-space \\"Magnificent Seven\\", where they team with a giant green Rabbit and an old man named \\"Don-Wan Kihotay\\" to face off against \\"Serji-X Arrogantus\\", a thinly disguised version of Mad Magazine cartoonist Sergio Aragones; Luke and the Droids crash on a Waterworld years before Kevin Costner made that awful movie; Han squares off against a \\"Gaily\\" attired pirate and his man-hating female crony; and everyone ends up in the deep-space Las Vegas for the big cliffhanger. The stories are a bit removed from what the films delivered, but I took a bit of umbrage at the back-cover copy which calls the Marvel stories \\"Kitschy\\"; Dark Horse has published a few duds themselves (\\"Union\\", anyone...?); At least these stories are entertaining! <br />  As a kid, I hated the artists that worked on these stories. As an adult, I can appreciate the draftsmanship and storytelling ability that they brought to the series. Howard Chaykin, Carmine Infantino, Tom Palmer, Terry Austin, Herb Trimpe, Al Milgrom...They're all legends, and with good reason. (The only gaffe, artwise, is the pairing of Chaykin and Frank Springer in chapter seven. Springer's inks are atrocious!) The art looks better than ever, thanksto the vibrant colors and slick paper. And aside from Roy Thomas' propensity for making Han say (OVER and OVER again!) \\"WELL then there now!\\", the characters STAY in character. Lucasfilm may have decided that the stories are no longer canonical, but that doesn't mean they're not fun! And the price just can't be beat! Give Doomworld a try if you're looking for something a little bit different. WELL then there now!	2003-01-20
US	42627253	R3G59RH3KCMEPJ	1569717540	593014131	1: Doomworld (Star Wars: A Long Time Ago..., Book 1)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Blast From the Past (When Comics weren't Just For Adults!)	I was 6 when Star Wars was first unleashed on the public, and I was lucky enough to have a Mom that supported her young son's comic-book reading habit; The biggest problem of any comic reader in those long-forgotten days was spotty newsstand distribution- It was almost impossible to collect EVERY issue of your favorite comic.....for almost 25 years I've been wondering how Luke and company managed to get off of that Water Planet in Star Wars #14....<br />   THANK GOD FOR DARK HORSE! My wondering days are over! Doomworld collects issues 1-20 of Marvel's original Star Wars series in glorious full-color, on beautiful paper with great production values. The book opens with an incredibly faithful adaptation of the movie, then goes off into some surprising territory: Han and Chewie star in an outer-space \\"Magnificent Seven\\", where they team with a giant green Rabbit and an old man named \\"Don-Wan Kihotay\\" to face off against \\"Serji-X Arrogantus\\", a thinly disguised version of Mad Magazine cartoonist Sergio Aragones; Luke and the Droids crash on a Waterworld years before Kevin Costner made that awful movie; Han squares off against a \\"Gaily\\" attired pirate and his man-hating female crony; and everyone ends up in the deep-space Las Vegas for the big cliffhanger. The stories are a bit removed from what the films delivered, but I took a bit of umbrage at the back-cover copy which calls the Marvel stories \\"Kitschy\\"; Dark Horse has published a few duds themselves (\\"Union\\", anyone...?); At least these stories are entertaining! <br />  As a kid, I hated the artists that worked on these stories. As an adult, I can appreciate the draftsmanship and storytelling ability that they brought to the series. Howard Chaykin, Carmine Infantino, Tom Palmer, Terry Austin, Herb Trimpe, Al Milgrom...They're all legends, and with good reason. (The only gaffe, artwise, is the pairing of Chaykin and Frank Springer in chapter seven. Springer's inks are atrocious!) The art looks better than ever, thanksto the vibrant colors and slick paper. And aside from Roy Thomas' propensity for making Han say (OVER and OVER again!) \\"WELL then there now!\\", the characters STAY in character. Lucasfilm may have decided that the stories are no longer canonical, but that doesn't mean they're not fun! And the price just can't be beat! Give Doomworld a try if you're looking for something a little bit different. WELL then there now!	2003-01-20
US	42627253	R16RUPIR0QQRRK	0312206860	24536187	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror: Twelfth Annual Collection (No. 12)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Some Great Stories Make Up For the MANY Duds....	This is actually one of the better \\"Years Best\\" that I've read so far. Again, I skimmed right past Windling & Datlow's Summations- They go on waaayyyy too long, as usual. Also as usual, Fantasy Editor Terri Windling monopolizes the bulk of the book with her choices. Horror Editor Ellen Datlow does get some payback, though: One of her choices, Peter Straub's \\"Mr. Clubb and Mr. Cuff\\", runs in excess of 50 pages. The titular duo is memorable, but the story goes on too long, and the style it's written in is difficult to stick with. The end is worth it, though. <br />  The book opens with Kelly Link's \\"Travels With the Snow Queen\\" which I couldn't even finish; I hated it. Link appears again towards the end of the book with \\"The Specialist's Hat\\", an absolutely chilling ghost story with a drop-dead scary ending. I couldn't move on to the next story until the next day, because I was turning Link's story over in my mind all night. It was absolutely one of the spookiest stories I've ever read. Sara Douglass offers up the REAL secret behind those Gargoyles on Church roofs in \\"The Evil Within\\", a far-fetched but fun Horror tale, and Lisa Goldstein's \\"The Fantasma of Q____\\" is an interesting victorian tale with an neat twist at the end. Stephen King's contribution is pretty good; Not his best, but the end makes it worthwhile. One of the book's better tales is Terry Lamsley's \\"Suburban Blight\\", where an abandoned building hides a terrifying secret. \\"Inside the Cackle Factory\\", by Dennis Etchison, tells us just what happens to all of those washed-up stars we never see on TV anymore. John Kessel's \\"Every Angel is Terrifying\\" is a realistic story of escaped killers that takes a mildly fantastic twist at the end; It's extremely well-written, and creepy as hell. As always, there's a Dracula story (Sort of)- It's Mark W. Tiedmann's \\"Psyche\\", and it's a keeper. Drac himself is only peripherally involved, but his influence permeates the entire story. Jane Yolen, Norman Partridge, and Michael Blumlein all contribute interesting stories as well. I couldn't get through Christopher Harman's \\"Jackdaw Jack\\"- It was just awful. There's another Charles De Lint Newford story, which is excellent as usual, and Terry Dowling's story, \\"Jenny Come To Play\\" is just a nasty read; Although they're nothing alike, it has the same feel as \\"The Silence of the Lambs\\". And as usual, Terri Windling monopolizes the end of the book with dud stories that I can't get through. Windling tends to favor feminist fantasy stories that are all too much alike; I was actually offended by Carol Ann Duffy's ode to man-hating, \\"Mrs. Beast\\"; The less I say about this trash the better. If a man had written such an anti-female story, he'd be finished. <br />  As I said, there are some GREAT stories here, but they're outweighed by the duds, and when one of these stories are bad, they're BAD. I'll read the other two volumes of \\"Year's Best\\" that I own, but I'll pass on buying new ones. Windling & Datlow's selections leave a lot to be desired, and I wish they would get a little more daring.....	2003-01-16
US	42627253	R2UB04G0FPL8NX	1401200206	410170036	Authority, The: Transfer of Power	Books	3	28	29	N	N	A Spotty Send-Off For The World's Meanest Super-Team.	In it's original incarnation as a monthly comic, the \\"Transfer of Power\\" story arc was one of the most troubled comics in recent history. In it's collected edition, it's a spotty mess, with a few glimpses of brilliance.<br />  Writer Mark Millar had already decided Transfer of Power would be his last story arc, but after completing one issue, Artist Frank Quitely jumped ship to illustrate Marvel's New X-Men. (I consider Quitely's abrupt departure from the book that made him famous at best unprofessional. At worst, downright $h!tty...) This left DC/Wildstorm with a big problem: Since the artist they tapped to finish off the story, Art Adams, is notoriously slow, how could they keep the book coming out in a relatively timely fashion? Answer: Since The Authority are killed and replaced by an even MORE vicious team in the first chapter, Tom Peyer and Dustin Nguyen would create a 4-issue fill-in that would detail the new team's adventures. Adams STILL wasn't able to get his three issues done, so Gary Erskine needed to do the art chores on the final issue. And in the midst of all of this, September 11th made the suits at DC rethink their stance on publishing such a violent book....So this simple 4-issue story became an 8-issue mess that dragged on for almost two years, and also became the swan-song for The Authority. (After all the hubbub, DC is quietly getting ready to lauch a new version of The Authority, with an unknown creative team....yay.)<br />  The story starts off strong, as a Government sanctioned Hillbilly/Billion Dollar Cyborg is sent to kill The Authority, and seemingly succeeds. The team is replaced with a bunch of brutal look-alikes, who waste no time in putting the entire Universe in deadly peril. Only The Midnighter (with little Jenny Quantum in tow) has any hope of putting things right. The DRASTIC differences in artistic styles really make the book seem schizophrenic; Nguyen's style just doesn't mesh with Quitely & Adams' cartoony artistry, and the realistic renderings of Gary Erskine aren't a good fit to follow two chapters of Art Adams. All of the artists involved are very talented, but read as a whole, the book has no artistic flow. Peyer's fill-in arc is okay, but nothing special. It could have easily been skipped entirely, and nothing would have been lost, story-wise. I did enjoy the hillbilly killer, Seth, but the final fate he suffers is taken whole cloth from Garth Ennis' excellent Preacher. I was hoping for something a little worse. I also enjoyed the realistic relationship between The Authority's Batman/Superman duo, The Midnighter & Apollo. Maybe one of the best romantic relationships in comics today.<br />  While FAR from the best Authority tale (See Warren Ellis' issues for those), Transfer of Power has it's share of powerful moments, and is worth a look for fans of the team. I just wish they could have gotten a better send-off.....	2003-01-13
US	42627253	R1X2A2W9WBCC2Q	1560973315	643215457	Fuzz & Pluck	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	&quot;Look out for that plucked Chicken.....&quot;	Fuzz, a stuffed teddy bear escaping from an abusive child, and Pluck, a plucked Rooster on the run from a soup factory, wind up in a strange city where slavery has replaced prisons. They're purchased by a strange couple (The wife has unusual plans for Fuzz..), must fight a giant shrub creature, learn starvation techniques from an emaciated Zen Monkey, and vomit on a baby. If this sounds like fun to you, Fuzz and Pluck would be a wise purchase to make. I mean, who wouldn't love the ornery Pluck, whose cute antics include stealing crutches from old crippled men? I lost count of the times I found myself doubled over with laughter reading this book- Ted Stearn is a genius! The art and dialogue are perfect, and Fantagraphics has created a lovely, affordable package. Looking forward to the sequel, Splitsville. Highly recommended!	2003-01-08
US	42627253	R22RH0BFX0L5F1	0312290675	538348838	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror: Fifteenth Annual Collection	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Another Year, Another Snooze-Fest....	Made it through another one!!! Once again, Fantasy Editor Terri Windling runs roughshod over Horror Editor Ellen Datlow- Windling weighs in with 26 stories, Datlow with 19. (Datlow continues to beat the drum for awful-poetry lovers everywhere, with no less than EIGHT poems...Yuck.)<br />  As usual, the book opens with Windling's interminably long overview on The Year in Fantasy, which is really no more than a list of every book that's come out that year, along with her rambling on and on about \\"Magical Realism\\" for what seems like 5000 pages. I read one page, skimmed the rest, didn't miss a thing.<br />  On to Datlow's Year in Horror- Slightly more interesting, but still WAAY too long. Skimmed once again...<br />  Edward Bryant's Horror and Fantasy in the Media overview is interesting reading, but it seems as if Bryant just throws every movie he's seen into the mix. Does \\"In the Company of Men\\" really qualify as Fantasy or Horror...? Seth Johnson's Year in Comic Books overview is very interesting, and considering how much Windling drones on, I don't think it would kill them to let Johnson have a few more pages than he does. <br />   On to the stories themselves....There are a LOT of stories that are bad, if not downright AWFUL, in this book, and most of them go on MUCH too long. Among the Awful/Overlong are: The meandering, pointless \\"The Skull of Charlotte Corday\\", \\"It Had To Be You\\", which would have been cute if had been 20 pages shorter; Charles Grant's head-scratching yawn-a-thon \\"Riding the Black\\", ... \\"In the Fields\\" was so bad I actually had to skip to the next story; I also couldn't finish Peter S. Beagle's \\"The Last Song of Sirit Byar\\"- It seemed like the song had no end.....<br />  It's not ALL bad, though. Standout stories include \\"Gulliver at Home\\", which tells of Lemuel Gulliver's time at home between voyages; \\"I Am Infinite; I Contain Multitudes\\" has one of the nastiest scenes I've ever read, and packs a hell of a punch; Nicholas Royle's \\"Mbo\\" delivers a nasty spin on the Dracula legend; Gary A. Braunbeck's \\"Safe\\" is a moving tale of the aftermath of a gruesome mass-murder; \\"El Castillo De La Perseverancia\\" is THE weirdest story I've ever read...Mexican Wrestlers vs. Aztec monsters! It's like a Santos movie in print! \\"Residuals\\" tells the hidden history of Alien-abduction in America, and Michael Chabon delivers a ripping good H. P. Lovecraft pastiche \\"In the Black Mill\\". Christopher Fowler's \\"Spanky's Back!\\" is good sick fun, and Stephen Laws' \\"The Crawl\\" presents a far-fetched tale of road-rage that still manages to evoke a chill. <br />   While there ARE some worthwhile reads here, the book is more pain than pleasure to read. Proceed at your own risk!	2003-01-07
US	42627253	R1ZZ1AUFUZVSZB	1563896400	979095672	DC Universe Christmas	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Make Sure You're REALLY In The Christmas Spirit.....	At the risk of sounding Scrooge-like, I really can't go higher than 2 stars for this collection. DC has done a nice job of collecting 17 Christmas stories spanning more than 60 years, but the book is overpriced for such a slim volume, and most of the stories are nothing special.<br />  The book starts out with the seldom-seen Denny O'Neil/Frank Miller &quot;Wanted: Santa Claus- Dead or Alive!&quot;, which is apparently seldom-seen because it stinks...It's only noteworthy to see Miller's evolving art style, which he would soon perfect on his legendary Daredevil run. (It's also curious to see the resemblance this story bears to the Simon &amp; Kirby Sandman story that comes later in the book; The plots are virtually identical...) After that we get tales that range from excellent (The Harley &amp; The Ivy) to just plain BAD (A Swinging Christmas, starring The Teen Titans), with most of the book leaning towards bad. The Darkseid story is excellent, and the vintage Superman story is fun, but does the Green Lantern/Green Arrow story REALLY deserve to be reprinted? It was bad when it first appeared, and certainly hasn't gotten any better in the years since. Luckily, the book gets better towards the end, with John Byrne's excellent Enemy Ace story, and a touching Impulse tale.  But couldn't DC have made room for the classic &quot;Silent Night of The Batman&quot;? Fans interested in seeing a retrospective of DC's long publishing career will doubtless enjoy A DC Universe Christmas; If you're looking for great stories, you might want to look elsewhere.	2003-01-06
US	42627253	R3PH0ORHLK9QP6	0871355752	62298131	The Trial of Galactus (Fantastic Four)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	The Definitive Galactus Story	Despite it's misleading moniker (It's actually Reed Richards who is on trial.), The Trial of Galactus does a decent job of truncating Writer/Artist John Byrne's epic Galactus story that ran (sporadically) from Fantastic Four #'s 242-262. <br />  The book starts out with what might just be THE Galactus story: After a devastating battle against the big G's Herald, Terrax the Tamer, The FF is faced with a momentous decision: Let the weakened Galactus perish, or try to save him. FF leader Reed Richards, along with Dr. Strange, Iron Man, Thor, and a host of others, restore the planet-eater to his former vim & vigor, and off he goes to destroy the Skrull Throneworld. The races that have been victimized by Galactus in the past assemble, and put the abducted Reed Richards on trial; Since he saw fit to save Galactus' life, he will be held accountable for Galactus' atrocities. Richards' defense is that Galactus fulfills a Celestial purpose, and we have no right to judge him; Don't we all kill to eat? Well, yeah. But I personally think he should just mind his own bees-wax and let Galactus croak. Does Richards' have the right to condemn Billions of sentient being to death, just to salve his own conscience..? <br />  Byrne has re-done some of the pages in the collection to make the story flow better, and it works, to an extent. There are refrences to other adventures that seem jarring, considering this is all supposed to be one seamless story. Why redo anything if there are still going to be captions pointing out things that aren't in the book? Especially that Sub-Mariner refrence...<br /> Byrne not only delivers THE Galactus story in these pages, but also throws in one of the best Dr. Doom arcs ever, as Doom attempts to imbue the now-powerless Terrax, or should that be Tyros, with the power cosmic, and use him to kill the FF. In one line of Dialogue (\\"I never thought Doom would strike a woman! KILL one, yes, but never strike one...\\") Byrne perfectly encapsulates Doom's mania and strange ethical code better than I've ever seen it done. <br />  The problem came at the end......The climax of the trial sees one of the most LITERAL Deus ex Machina examples EVER, and I actually had to check the book's binding to make sure pages weren't stuck together or missing. No such luck. The climax is so abrupt and forced that I really felt cheated. Up until then, though, The Trial of Galactus is The Fantastic Four at it's best. The book also contains Byrne's mildly amusing Fantastic Four vs. Superman spoof from Marvel's \\"What The?!?\\" book.	2002-12-29
US	42627253	R1I9YEQA8KR18B	078510819X	272777752	X-Force - Volume 1: New Beginnings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Believe the Hype!	I finally gave in to the temptation. <br /> After years of being burned by X-Books revamps that turned out to be more of the same-old-shizznit, I vowed to never be suckered in again. So I resisted all of the hype and rave reviews. Until the release of X-Factor: The Final Chapter made the temptation too great. I snapped up Final Chapter and it's predecessor New Beginnings. Now I'm haunting E-Bay looking for any other issues I'm missing. As bad as it is getting burned by a dud retread book, it's totally cool to discover a new take on an old theme....<br /> Writer Peter Milligan and artist Mike Allred deliver a brand-new X-Force, a kind of corporate Super-Hero group owned by a petulant young millionaire. Milligan sets up a status-quo, rips it apart, sets it up again, rips it apart.....By the end of the book, the team is totally different from the one we met a mere five chapters ago. I can't say I developed an affinity for any of the characters, but I sure did want to see what happened next. It's like a bad car accident. You don't want to look, but you can't help it. Artist Mike Allred's clean, cartoony style adds to the books overall grotesque effect. The aftermath of the distastrous \\"Boys 'R' Us\\" rescue would not have been half as stomach-churning if it had been rendered in a realistic art style. The new characters run the gamut from the bizarre to the ridiculous, with the pinnacle of weirdness being the silent Doop, who looks like a flying turd; Doop floats around the team's battles filming them. (S)he (?) also has some kind of weird friendship with X-Man Wolverine. <br /> Marvel's new Editor-In-Chief Joe Quesada has another winner on his hands. Give X-Factor a try, and you'll be hooked.	2002-12-26
US	42627253	R2CB3A65AN7OX5	1569716056	33832674	Tales of the Slayers (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	5	56	59	N	N	Even Buffy Newcomers Will Enjoy This Book	I've never seen Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Not the movie, not the TV show, never read any of the books or comics, nada, zip, nothing. I bought Tales of the Slayers because I'm a big fan of artist Gene Colan. The reason I'm spelling all of this out is to convince potential buyers that the 8 stories in this book stand up well on their own; No previous knowledge of the Buffy Universe is required.<br />  Of the eight stories, three are written by Buffy creator Joss Whedon, including my favorite, \\"Righteous\\", illustrated by artist Tim Sale, where a Slayer saves a French village from a horde of Bloodsuckers, only to face  a very different fate. Whedon also contributes a \\"Fray\\" tale, which sees the future Slayer (Star of the Dark Horse Comics mini-series which is about a Year behind schedule...) discovering her legacy. Jane Espenson & P. Craig Russell contribute \\"Presumption\\" which delivers one hell of a surprising twist, so don't peek at the ending! All of the stories are excellent, with even the weakest one being well worth reading. Tales of the Slayers is well worth purchasing if you're a fan of Buffy and/or Vampire stories in general. Hey Dark Horse- Any chance of a sequel?	2002-12-26
US	42627253	R241RH8WJ2IKI	0785107657	129233313	Avengers: Nights of Wundagore (Backpack Marvels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Terrific Stories From The Good Old Days!!	Nights of Wundagore is part of a noble, but failed, experiment called \\"Backpack Marvels\\": Low-priced reprints in a digest-sized format, geared towards impulse purchasers. I don't know why this didn't succeed, but it's a shame, because the few that Marvel did publish contained some of their best stuff. <br /> This volume contains classic stories by David Michelinie and John Byrne, aided and abetted by a host of collaborators. The story mainly focuses on siblings Quicksilver & The Scarlet Witch as they attempt to solve the mystery of who exactly their parents were. That mystery is not really resolved here; Astute readers will pick up on the cryptic clues; Others will learn the truth from the brief text features after the main story. There's a few fun side trips along the way, with The Avengers battling the likes of The Absorbing Man and The Elements of Doom. As with any good Avengers tale, the main attraction is seeing the characters interact, and Michelinie does a great job of keeping the large cast in character. The main story is a mind-bendingly complex trip through Marvel history, though; I consider myself well-versed in Marvel lore, but I must admit that even I had trouble making some of the events in the flashbacks fit together at a few points. John Byrne was at the height of his artistic prowess at the time these stories originally appeared, and the black-and-white doesn't do a thing to diminish it's beauty. I had a blast reading this book, and i think any fan of The Avengers would feel the same.	2002-12-21
US	42627253	R25KOCCYSQ1UK9	1563898810	993024994	September 11th, 2001 VOL 01: Stories to Remember	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Heartfelt Tales of September 11th and it's Aftermath	There's really not much I can say about this book. The stories contained in it are poignant and touching and heartbreaking and hopeful all at once, and each and every contributor has given not only their time and talent to the project, but clearly they've also given a piece of their hearts. Being born and raised in New York City, the events of September 11th are especially painful to me, but I came away from reading this book feeling just a little more hopeful than I did when I started it. Kudos to all involved for a magnificent effort. (And all of the money goes to a good cause, too!)	2002-12-15
US	42627253	RPCYM7FAN7PG2	1563898640	863651073	Green Lantern: Legacy: The Last Will and Testament of Hal Jordan	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A Well-Told, Touching Story, But Newer Readers Might Be Lost	In Legacy: The Last Will and Testament of Hal Jordan, writer Joe Kelly and Artists Brent Anderson and Bill Sienkiewicz try to add a fitting coda to the career of Hal Jordan, the disgraced (and deceased) former Green Lantern. Prior to his death, Jordan went berserk with grief (The City he called home was destroyed by an insane alien baddie), slaughtered the entire Green Lantern Corps., and usurped their power in an attempt to undo the destruction of Coast City. He was eventually given a chance to redeem himself; He died saving the Earth, and has since been reborn as the newest incarnation of the wrath of God known as The Spectre. Whew!<br />The book centers around former Jordan sidekick/Green Lantern wannabe/offensive racial stereotype Tom \\"Pieface\\" Kalmaku. (Can you believe there was actually a time when it was OK to call an Eskimo \\"Pieface\\"? Jeez!) He is wallowing in self-pity over the loss of his friend Hal; He's a destitute alcoholic, he's just lost his job, his Wife, his Kids......and now, out of nowhere, he's handed a child that is allegedly Jordan's, and a note from Hal reading \\"Tom- Fix it. Hal\\" Who is this kid? What does the note mean? What can one man do in a world of super-powered God-like beings? Tom is about to find out....<br />The art is nice, the book is attractively designed, and the reappearance of my favorite ever Green Lantern (I won't spoil the surprise, poozer!) is much appreciated and very unexpected. Writer Joe Kelly even manages to end the book on a note of triumph, with a hint of a bright future for The Corps. My only problem is that if I weren't aware of the twisty Green Lantern continuity, I'd have been lost. The book just doesn't seem new-reader friendly. Who is The Spectre, and what does he have to do with Hal Jordan? Who is the big yellow guy that blew up Coast City? What did Hal hope to accomplish by killing off The Corps. and The Guardians? I knew the answers to these quetions, but a new reader wouldn't.<br />Longtime fans should be satisfied, though.	2002-12-14
US	42627253	R32QILBGRE8GC6	1560974583	971784696	Caricature	Books	5	2	5	N	N	I'm Glad I'm Not Any of These People.....	How does Dan Clowes manage to tell pointless, meandering stories about monstrously defective people and still make them entertaining? Beats me. I'm just glad to know that, as messed-up as I may be, I'm not anywhere NEAR as bad as the folks portrayed in Caricature....For instance, Clowes introduces us to Mona Beadle (Green Eyeliner), a former fat-girl who has devoted her life to a strange revenge fantasy, which fails miserably. Or there's always the malcontent who just rants about how every year after 1966 was no good. Or Mal Rosen, a caricature artist who meets a severly messed up girl who may or may not be: 15 Years old, 22 Years old, the daughter of a famous artist, battered by her boyfriend, etc. And don't forget the luckless Super-Hero and the strange trick-or-treater...<br />  In addition to great storytelling and lovely art, Clowes also delivers the reader a feeling of inner peace....because no matter HOW bad your life may be, Clowes shows you it could always be worse. Highly recommended!	2002-12-13
US	42627253	R3B4A0WT51ILZD	0943151384	359257689	Hectic Planet Book 3: Young And Reckless (Bk. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Best One Yet! (Hey Dork....Where's Book Four?!?!?!?)	Evan Dorkin's growth into one of the masters of the Comic-Book form is on display yet again in Hectic Planet Book Three: The Young and the Reckless. It's the best volume yet; Unfortunately, aside from three 8-page stories (Published by Slave Labor Graphics as \\"Hectic Planet: The Bummer Trilogy\\"), it's also the LAST volume. (Dorkin says there are more Planet stories planned for 2002, but I'm writing this in December 2002, and there hasn't been a peep yet....)<br />  The book itself is fairly slim, but Dorkin packs in a lot of entertainment. Most of the plot revolves around Halby and Renensco out on the town; After an ill-advised hot-dog theft, the duo is thrown behind bars. There's a few great laughs, more than a few tear-jerking moments, and the Vroom Socko interlude has got to be the most brutally violent scene I've ever seen in a comic. (I still laughed, though.) Despite the futuristic setting, Dorkin's characters seem, if not just like us, at least like people we've known. (Except for Vroom Socko. I've never known anyone QUITE that bad!) The art is spectacular- Dorkin packs a ton of detail into each panel, yet his storytelling never seems cluttered. Highly recommended! <br />  (I'd advise new readers to skip Volume One entirely- It's some of Dorkin's earliest work, and it shows. Everything you need to know is in Volumes Two & Three.)	2002-12-09
US	42627253	R1BNAGZTQOU6Y3	0785107584	624095595	Thor Visionaries - Walt Simonson, Vol. 1 (v. 1, Bk. 1)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	THE Definitive Thor Run Begins Here	The early '80's were a very exciting time to be a comic-book fan. Frank Miller on Daredevil, John Byrne on Fantastic Four, Bruce Jones and Brent Anderson on Ka-Zar....But when Walter Simonson quietly took over The Mighty Thor with issue #337, he took the character and brought him to the forefront of the comics industry, and the fans sat up and took notice. (I vividly remember that first issue of Thor being THE hot topic during the 6th-grade lunch period the day after it was released. Copies were being passed around and oohed and aahed over like they were gold nuggets.) I bought Thor Visionaries mostly out of nostalgia; I didn't think the stories could possibly hold up almost twenty years later.<br />  I was wrong.<br /> Not only do they still hold up, they were even better than I remembered them! The stories virtually crackle with energy, and when read together, I was better able to appreciate Simonson's intricate & meticulous plotting. (And his art ain't too hard on the eyes, either!)<br />  Under a gorgeous new Walt Simonson cover are his first twelve issues, which starts the Surtur story-arc, and introduces Beta-Ray Bill, the noble alien who bests Thor in combat and does the heretofore impossible: Lifts Thor's hammer, effectively BECOMING Thor! We also get a great battle (Or two!) with Fafnir, and finish off with Thor's attempt to stop Malekith The Dark Elf from opening the Casket of Ancient Winters, which could plunge Earth into a new ice-age. Unfortunately, the book ends with a rip-roaring cliffhanger, and while there are more Simonson issues yet to be reprinted, Marvel hasn't made any plans for a second volume of Thor Visionaries, so there's no telling when Walt's Surtur epic will see the light of day in collected form.<br />  The writing and art in this volume is amazing. Simonson's Thor resonates deeply in ways he never has before (Or since); I especially enjoyed the scenes between Thor and his Father, Odin. As another reviewer mentioned, two pages in the first chapter are printed out of order, and that kind of stuff drives me nuts. For a book of this price to not be perfect is inexcusable. It often seems like reprint books are just slapped together, and that's just sad. Considering the fact that they often contain some of the most important stories, they should be labors of love, not a slapped-together afterthought. In addition to the new cover, Simonson contributes a new introduction that explains the genesis of the Surtur storyline; It's cool to learn how he made his dream a reality.<br />   Thor Visionaries: Walter Simonson is a MUST-READ for any comic fan. Lets hope Marvel gets on the ball and gives us Volume Two sooner rather than later!	2002-12-06
US	42627253	R125RCCFIFUDIK	0312157002	32282392	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror: Tenth Annual Collection (Year's Best Fantasy & Horror)	Books	1	11	24	N	N	Pretentious and Overblown	Ohhhhh.....Where to begin? I'll start with co-editor Terri Windling. Her opening essay on the year in Fantasy was almost enough to make me hurl down the book in irritation. If she said &quot;Magic Realism&quot; one more time....I lost track at 37. Unbearable. Just unbearable. I have a pretty steadfast rule that, no matter how bad a book may be, I read EVERY SINGLE WORD. Every word. No matter what. I had to skim through Windling's essay, because it was either skim or put my fist through the wall. &quot;Magic Realism. Magic Realism. Magic Realism.&quot; Ugh.<br />  Ellen Datlow's essay is slightly more interesting, and the sections on Media and Comic Books were very well done. Now, on to the stories themselves.<br />  I've read a few of the previous Year's Best volumes, and it always bothered me how the book slants towards Fantasy over Horror (Terri Winling is the Fantasy Editor, Ellen Datlow the Horror Editor), but this edition is WAY over the top. Out of 35 stories, Windling's name is on over twenty. Her tastes run towards oblique, overwritten, pretentious tripe, and strange poetry. One of her selections, Gerald Vizenor's Oshkiwiinag: Heartlines on the Trickster Express put me beyond the newfound sacrilige of skimming. I actually had to skip the remainder of the story after five endless, pointless pages. I have never read such strange shizznit in my whole life. I literally had NO idea what he was writing about. Ugh. Another Windling pick (Among The Handlers, by Michael Bishop) is endlessly long, written in an awful hillbilly dialect, and is neither Fantasy or Horror, but IS god-awful. I'll avoid Vizenor and Bishop like the plague, thanks to these stories. We also get other Windling-picked classics like Birthdream, (A poem about childbirth, not Horror or Fantasy, but also awful. If I wanted bad poems, I'd get a poetry book.) Caribe Magico, by Gabriel Garcia Marquez (A travelogue. For God's sake, a travelogue! Not Horror, not Fantasy...but as Windling says...MAGIC REALISM! Code for &quot;Pretentious story that makes no sense.&quot;), and Beckoning Nightframe by Terry Dowling, about a woman who is scared of her neighbor's open window. FOR 16 PAGES! UGH. Her only decent choice is Little Beauty's Wedding, by Chang Hwang. It's an unforgettable story.<br />  Ellen Datlow fares better in her choices. The Secret Shih Tan (By Graham Masterson), Never Seen By Waking Eyes (By Stephen Dedman), and the grotesque Three Bears pastiche &quot;Ursus Triad, Later&quot; (By Kathe Koja &amp; Barry N. Malzberg) are all incredible, and I'm glad to have discovered writers I wasn't familiar with, but the overall feeling I had when reading the book was one of irritation with the all-encompassing pretentiousness of the package. I'd say the stinky outweighed the good by 90%. I'm VERY sorry that I've  already purchased the next four volumes....But at least I've learned to skim &amp; skip!LISM! Code for &quot;Pretentious story that makes no sense.&quot;), and Beckoning Nightframe by Terry Dowling, about a woman who is scared of her neighbor's open window. FOR 16 PAGES! UGH. Her only decent choice is Little Beauty's Wedding, by Chang Hwang. It's an unforgettable story.<br />  Ellen Datlow fares better in her choices. The Secret Shih Tan (By Graham Masterson), Never Seen By Waking Eyes (By Stephen Dedman), and the grotesque Three Bears pastiche &quot;Ursus Triad, Later&quot; (By Kathe Koja &amp; Barry N. Malzberg) are all incredible, and I'm glad to have discovered writers I wasn't familiar with, but the overall feeling I had when reading the book was one of irritation with the all-encompassing pretentiousness of the package. I'd say the stinky outweighed the good by 90%. I'm VERY sorry that I've  already purchased the next four volumes....But at least I've learned to skim &amp; skip!	2002-12-04
US	42627253	R2J1Q9BVZZ0M1N	0943151309	601610548	Dreadstar Volume 2: The Price	Books	1	6	12	N	N	Too Busy!	Dreadstar Volume Two: The Price suffers from the same sins of excess as Volume One did: It's overwritten and cluttered with things that, in the end, aren't necessary. Most of this volume (And Volume One) has absolutely no bearing on the real story, which begins in Volume Three, when the reprinting of the Dreadstar series originally published by Epic Comics begins. Most comic character origins (The GOOD ones, at least!) are fairly simple: Orphaned as a childby a criminal's bullets, Bruce Wayne devotes his life to fighting crime as Batman. Bitten by a radioactive spider, teen-ager Peter Parker gains amazing powers, and discovers that &quot;With great power, there comes great responsibility&quot;. And so Spider-Man was born. Two volumes in, I still can't recap Dreadstar's origin. It's just too convoluted.<br />  The stories in The Price were originally presented in painted color, so the black &amp; white reproduction looks muddied and blurry. I expect that once they get to the reprints of the actual series (Which was conventionally colored), the quality will be better. The stories are WAY too wordy, and by the end of the book (Volume One, as well), you feel like you've taken a long trip to nowhere. There is also a continuity gap in the book that just drove me bonkers: Starlin takes great pains to drum home the point that all of the cat people were killed in the raid on Caldor (NOT the store! The Planet...), but in Chapter Three of The Price, Oedi the cat-man appears out of nowhere, and everyone acts like he's been there all along! Huh?!?!<br />   My advice to potential Dreadstar readers and/or Jim Starlin fans: Start with Volume Three. Everything you'll need to know is in there, and you'll save money and time that could have been wasted on these two pointless books.	2002-12-03
US	42627253	R1LUI5GATGYMNE	0971756406	856756625	Garlands of Moonlight	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Beautifully Done Horror Tale	Garlands of Moonlight is the first effort from creators Jai Sen (Writer) &amp; Rizky Wasisto Edi (Illustrator), but you'd never know it by the finished product. <br />  The story is deceptively simple: An isolated island village is plagued by mysterious deaths, which the local medicine woman believes are the work of a supernatural creature. Within the relatively tight confines of the book's 86 pages, Jai Sen makes the village come alive with vividly realized characters, and Rizky Wasisto Edi's art is simply breathtaking. At first glance, it looks relatively simplistic, but a closer look shows a very talented illustrator at work; He knows just how to frame a scene, and each character looks like a real individual. The book is printed in a small format, so the price is accessible, and rather than standard black-and-white, an eye-catching silver ink is used. The result is really something special to see. The story itself moves briskly, and I was surprised to see how much story Edi fits into these 86 pages without bogging the pace down with unnecessary dialogue and/or extraneous captions. The ending is downright chilling. I'll definitely be on the lookout for future projects from these two extremely talented creators!	2002-12-02
US	42627253	R2CTM021R795YP	1929998171	471681477	Blue Monday, Vol. 2: Absolute Beginners	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I'm In Love With Bleu.....Sigh......	Pity poor High-Schooler Bleu Finnegan. In addition to the usual Teen angst she's suffering through, she's just been secretly taped in the shower by a couple of sneaky boys.....and now the tape is making the rounds at school. Will poor Bleu get revenge? Will the tape spoil her hopes for romance with teacher of her dreams? Will Bleu's pal Clover finally admit that she can see the giant kilt-wearing Otter too? These questions and more are answered in Absolute Beginners....<br />   Creator/Writer/Artist Chynna Clugston-Major does her usual great job of making the kids seem like real people, and her art hops effortlessly from semi-realistic to ultra cutesy, depending on the situation. Absolute Beginners is a true joy to read. And Bleu and Clover are babes!	2002-11-30
US	42627253	R1VVDOOC9JMSKA	1929998333	193938106	Magic Pickle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Freaky Fruit & Vengeful Vegetables, Beware The MAGIC PICKLE!	If you're anything like me, you've probably always wanted to see a super-powered pickle in an epic struggle with an evil head of lettuce (The Romaine Gladiator), and his cronies (The Brotherhood of Evil Produce). Well look no further, because your prayers have been answered!<br />  Creator Scott Morse is clearly having fun with this stuff, and it shows. From cute little Jo Jo Wigman (The aspiring \\"Sweet Tomato\\") to the gun-toting Loconut, it's all good. I've never liked pickles, but thanks to Scott Morse, I've discovered a reason to stand up and cheer: \\"Long Live the Magic Pickle!!!!!\\"	2002-11-30
US	42627253	R1UAI24HQOX5PZ	1569710813	237664456	Ghost in the Shell (v. 1)	Books	1	15	46	N	N	What..???	I used to hate Manga, but over the past few years I've discovered some truly great Japanese imports, like Lone Wolf and Cub, What's Michael?, and Akira, as well as Domu: A Child's dream, which I consider to be one of the finest Sci-Fi/Horror stories I've ever read. So now I consider myself at least open-minded when it comes to Manga. I was drawn to Ghost In The Shell by the hype surrounding the upcoming release of Ghost In The Shell II: Man/Machine Interface, by Dark Horse Comics. I sat down to read Ghost with great expectations....and I emerged with great disappointment. I think Ghost in the Shell is an \\"Emperor's New Clothes\\" book: It's \\"IN\\" to rave about it, but under the glitz, there's really nothing there.  <br />   Usually I'd give a summary of the story here, but I honestly have no idea of what I just read, or even IF there was a story. Creator Masamune Shirow has created a work that has all the hallmarks of a bad Science lecture. The characters are, no pun intended, shells: They have no personality or charisma. All of the female characters look exactly alike, and are distinguishable only by hair color, which is tough, considering 95% of the book is black & white. I never stop reading a book once I've started, no matter how bad, but I was sorely tempted to in this case. It took a torturous FOUR DAYS to get through Ghost in the Shell, partly because of the way Shirow over-dialogues every page (Boring & dry scientific jargon, punctuated by little panel notes that say things like \\"Fill-in-the-blank was supposed to happen here, but I'm too lazy to draw it.\\", which breaks up any tension he may/may not have been trying to create), and partly because I suddenly found cleaning the sinks and tub more interesting than continuing to read this stuff. Shirow has crafted a story that is utterly soulless & cold. There was not only no story, there was also no heart. <br />  On the plus side, I can use this as a warning to stay away from Shirow stuff in the future. (An expensive lesson!)	2002-11-29
US	42627253	R2ONS81VXO41AE	156971634X	320054476	Murder Mysteries	Books	5	32	36	N	N	The FIRST Detective Story....	I must have read Neil Gaiman's short story Murder Mysteries four or five times since I originally encountered it; It's been featured, and rightfully so, in many short story collections. It's one of Gaiman's best, most thought-provoking works, and since Gaiman is one of the best storytellers around, that's really saying something. P. Craig Russell is one of the masters of the comic book art form, and he especially excels at adaptations of fantasy, having previously done Wagner's Ring Cycle, Michael Moorcock's Elric, and numerous Oscar Wilde stories. Gaiman and Russell collaborated on what many consider to be the best issue of Gaiman's DC/Vertigo Sandman book, and Russell has adapted a few other Gaiman short stories (One Life, Furnished In Early Moorcock, and Only The End Of The World Again). Murder Mysteries stands as a high-water mark, in my opinion.<br />  The story-within-a-story, told by a homeless man to a visiting Englishman in L.A., tells of the first murder ever: An Angel killed in \\"The Shining City\\"; Our homeless storyteller is in reality the Angel Raguel, the vengeance of \\"The Name\\" (God). Raguel becomes, in effect, the first Detective, attempting to discover a motive that can lead to bringing the killer to justice. <br />  Gaiman's story works on many levels, and I have to say that as much as I loved the prose short story, the ending has always left me vaguely puzzled; It's a very involved and thought-provoking piece, and I often find myself thinking about the ending. Russell's adaptation went a long way towards making that ambiguous ending more clear. It turns out I was on the right track, but Russell's visuals make the ending more visceral and powerful. <br />   Murder Mysteries is presented in a gorgeous hardcover format, much the same as Dark Horse's previous Gaiman/ John Bolton book, Harlequin Valentine. This is a must read for all fans of Horror/Fantasy, as well as lovers of beautiful art. It deserves as wide an audience as possible. Give it a try, and spread the word.	2002-11-25
US	42627253	R8XQZP3PYKJMO	0785108963	765596633	Wolverine Gambit: Victims	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Umm....What's The Point?	Wolverine/Gambit: Victims lives up to it's name...I was victimized to the tune of Twelve Dollars and Ninety-Five cents.<br />  The story revolves around Gambit's attempt to solve a series of Jack-the-Ripper inspired murders in london, seemingly committed by his fellow X-Man Wolverine. The revelation of the actual killer makes NO sense, and leads to a ton more questions that Writer Jeph Loeb just ignores: Where did his female partner come from? How did he get disfigured? (That in particular makes no sense- How did exactly half of his face get peeled off? What was he doing when this happened? Did he think of maybe going to a Doctor? As it stands, Loeb has made a perfectly servicable villain into a poor-man's Two-Face....) Why does he hate Wolverine so much? Considering the villain owns huge underground lairs, why does he need to dispose of his first victim's corpse in the middle of London, let alone continue killing to throw off suspicion? The book makes absolutely NO sense. Some background is SORELY needed; I consider myself pretty well-versed in The X-Men, but the motivations of this character went TOTALLY against the grain of everything I knew about him.<br />  Victims is bound to attract the attention of fans of Loeb and Sale's Batman work, but it's nowhere NEAR that level of quality. It should be avoided at all costs!	2002-11-24
US	42627253	RRHBTT8UMO1N5	0785108556	117836713	Captain Britain TPB	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Classic Stuff!	As Author Alan Moore states in his introduction, the stories in this book are from VERY early on in the careers of himself and Artist Alan Davis, but they hold up remarkably well. The basic story will be familiar to longtime comic fans: Hero is thrown into an alternate reality, must face a megomaniacal madman, etc.; What's so cool about Captain Britain is that this story was published over TWENTY YEARS AGO, so all of the similar stories we're more familiar with (Crisis on Infinite Earths, X-Men's Days of Future Past, even Moore's &amp; Davis'own Miracleman)had their genesis here.<br />  The book gets off to a head-scratching start; We're thrown into the closing chapters of a long-running story-arc that Moore &amp; Davis had the misfortune of inheriting, but they do an amazing job of not only making the complex story and characters accessible, but actually making them interesting. Moore starts by killing Captain Britain, and rebuilding him from the ground up, as he would later do with DC's Swamp Thing. By the third or fourth chapter, Moore &amp; Davis have hit their stride, and are beginning to impart their own voices on the book. Part of the fun is seeing how fast Moore and Davis grow as creators; Moore learns that sometimes silence can be just as powerful as words, and Davis becomes a confident, masterful storyteller in his own right. By the time I finished the book, I felt like I had just discovered a long-hidden masterpiece. I don't know if this is the ENTIRE Moore/Davis Captain Britain run, but if it isn't, I hope Marvel gets the rest into print again FAST. Fans of Marvel's Excalibur series will also be interested to know that this book contains the first appearance of Meggan, The Captain's future love interest. There's also a cameo appearance by the aforementioned Miracleman.<br />  While not Moore's best work, it's still head-and-shoulders above 90% of the material out there. Give it a try!	2002-11-21
US	42627253	RV2D3L6PIWLPW	1563898055	374058162	Robin: Year One	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Compelling Look At The Boy Wonder's Rookie Season	Following in the well-tread footsteps of Frank Miller &amp; David Mazzuchelli's Batman: Year One comes this tale of Robin's first year in the green and yellow. Writers Chuck Dixon and Scott Beatty provide some interesting plotlines, including a bizarre kidnapping/white slavery plot undertaken by the creepy Mad Hatter, and tell of Robin's first fateful encounter with Two-Face. They also manage to throw us a new villian, The Shrike, who would go on to vex the grown Robin, now called Nightwing, in his own DC series. The art, by Javier Pulido and Robert Campanella, is relatively simple-looking and attractive, and the interactions between Batman, Robin, Alfred, and Comissioner Gordon all rang true to this long-time Bat-fan. I think it's worth the purchase price just for the brief first meeting between Boy Wonder &amp; (Future) Dominoed Dare-Doll Barbara Gordon. Robin: Year One doesn't break any new ground, but it's a well-told tale that deserves a look.	2002-11-17
US	42627253	R5Y9G68CERGOE	1569717583	963179927	Sergio Aragones Actions Speak	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Funny Stuff!	How many silent one-page gags can Sergio Aragones do before he runs out of funny ideas? Lucky for us, there appears to be no end in sight! Sergio is truly a master of his craft, and he's on top of his game with Actions Speak. I laughed a LOT, and spent an equal amount of time appreciating his deceptively simple-looking artwork. I can't recommend Actions Speak highly enough!	2002-11-17
US	42627253	R3LHVCGWM92NZK	1563899272	800233106	DV8: Neighborhood Threat	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Bad People Doing Bad Things To Other Bad People.	What would a group of super-powered teen-agers REALLY be like? Certainly not fresh-faced do-gooders, as Gen13 or Generation X would have us believe. But I'd hope they wouldn't be QUITE as bad as The Deviants, the protagonists of DV8: Neighborhood Threat. As portrayed by Writer Warren Ellis, The Deviants are foul-mouthed, immoral, murderous, horny, incestuous, lazy, greedy punks, at the mercy of their handler, Ivana Baiul, and her crony, the crazed Sideways Bob. Ivana has her own mysterious agenda, often sending the kids on suicide missions just because she can. As bad as The Deviants are, though, the people they come up against are even worse, and it does provide a vicarious thrill to see The Deviants dish out a well deserved serving of comeuppance to these baddies. <br />  Ellis' stories are compelling, and the characters are all nicely developed by the end of the collection. The art (By Humberto Ramos) is nice, but at times it's hard to make out what's going on in a panel. (This is some of his earlier work.) The book also includes a new introduction by Ellis, and a cover gallery of the reprinted issues (#'s 1-6, and the special Wizard #1/2 issue), including the \\"Seven Deadly Sins\\" variant covers for issue #1. <br />  Overall, it's a fun read for people with strong stomachs. Here's hoping DC collects the rest of Ellis' DV8 run.	2002-11-15
US	42627253	R1OQ9U82BDW0RI	0971024928	162921074	Clive Barker's Hellraiser: Collected Best, Vol. 1	Books	2	16	23	N	N	I Forgot How Bad The Original Series Could Be!!!	The Hellraiser comic series is like going to the greatest comedy club ever. All of the greats are there to perform for you: Jerry Seinfeld, George Carlin, Jay Leno, Robin Williams, Garry Shandling, etc. Jerry Seinfeld starts: \\"Why did the Chicken cross the road..? To get to the other side!\\" Robin Williams is next: \\"How many Blondes does it take to screw in a light bulb? To get to the other side!\\" Pretty soon you realize that no matter what the set-up may be, the punchline is always going to be \\"To get to the other side\\". That pretty much sums up Hellraiser in a nutshell. Different creative teams telling different stories that all have the same ending: A bad person gets his comeuppance from The Lament Configuration and The Cenobites. Wow.<br /> I had collected the Hellraiser series when it was initially released, and was never really impressed by it. I always kept being lured back to the next issue by the stellar creative teams, and kept feeling let down. Stupid me, I actually ordered the Limited-Edition Leatherbound Hardcover of \\"Collected Best\\", thinking that maybe I just didn't \\"Get\\" the stories as a teen-ager. No, they really DID stink....<br /> There ARE a few good ones, don't get me wrong. Dead Man's Hand and Like Flies To Wanton Boys break from the standard Hellraiser mold, Dear Diary and Wordsworth hew close to that selfsame mold, but are well-told nonetheless. For My Son starts strong, but falls into the \\"Same Punchline\\" trap outlined above. It doesn't so much end as just STOP; I think there might be a page missing from the end of the story because, for a Fifty Dollar Limited Edition, the book is riddled with production errors. The final, crucial, dialogue panel of Mazes of the Mind is blank, thereby rendering the whole story pointless, and the final story, Losing Herself In The Part, has the majority of it's pages printed out of order. Not that the sloppy story is any better when read the right way. The two-parter \\"The Harrowing\\" was NOT written by Clive Barker, as widely advertised. He came up with the plot, and three other so-called \\"Writers\\" did the wooden dialogue. The Harrower stories were some of the WORST Helraiser stories EVER, and I really have to question their inclusion here. (One of the heroes is a little blue Cherub that kills Cenobites by FARTING on them, another is an escaped Death-Row Inmate who has lethal SPIT! Pure, unadulterated [stuff].) I'd advise any but the most hard-core fans to avoid this at all costs. A few good stories, but they're FAR outweighed by the awful ones.	2002-11-11
US	42627253	R2TRJOE82YC4G2	1582402256	127772215	Delicate Creatures	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Darker Type Of Fairy Tale.	Delicate Creatures shatters whatever preconceived notions you might have about Fairy Tales. Starting with a breezy introduction, where we get to know the various Fairies and Sprites inhabiting the walls of a Castle in an anonymous foreign land, the story quickly moves into darker territory, dealing with the real-life terrors of war and genocide. The darker aspects of the tale are dealt with honestly, but delicately enough that younger readers will be able to deal with them. There were parts of the story that brought a lump to my throat; I think that parents and children reading together would find a lot to discuss about Delicate Creatures, particularly the themes of love and loss. The story is told in prose, with occasional illustrations by Artist Michael Zulli. Zulli's art is fantasic and the lush colors (By Steve Firchow) make the pictures come to life. The story, by Babylon 5 creator J. Michael Straczynski, is gut-wrenching at times, but in true Fairy-Tale fashion, things turn out ok in the end. I believe all involved have created a new classic, one that will hopefully be discovered by Parents and Children alike in years to come.	2002-11-11
US	42627253	R3G420CSB07E7Q	0385729685	847139644	Akiko and the Intergalactic Zoo	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Winner From Mark Crilley!	Akiko's back! As a reward for her rescue of the Prince in the previous books, King Froptoppit rewards Akiko by sending her (And her pals Mr. Beeba, Spuckler, Gax, and Poog) on a trip to The Intergalactic Zoo. Unfortunately, once the owner finds out 'Kiko is an \\"Earthian\\" he kidnaps her and adds her to his private collection...<br />  Mark Crilley does his usual excellent job; The writing is brisk and fun, and the illustrations are excellent. Akiko is probably one of the most likeable characters I've read about in a long time. The book itself is beautifully designed, and the hardcover is a great value. Highly recommended!	2002-11-08
US	42627253	R3XLAU45SVBM	1582401764	106877029	Sam and Twitch, Book 1: Udaku	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Strong Ending Saves The Day	I HATE SPAWN. Absolutely hate him. I've read a few Spawn-related books, and haven't liked one of them. I picked up Sam and Twitch: Udaku because of writer Brian Michael Bendis alone. I'm a big fan of his work on books like Powers and Ultimate Spider-Man. So.....<br />  For the first half of the book it seemed like the &quot;Curse&quot; would hold true for Udaku. It just didn't hold my interest. I fixated on the numerous production problems, like- A)- Art being lost in the binding. This was especially troubling in the double-page spreads. In addition, the art itself doesn't flow smoothly; Page after page is crammed with 16-panel grids, and when you put pages like that side by side, the eye doesn't know which way to read- side to side across both pages, or one page at at a time. It got irritating after a while. I mostly blame that on problem B)- The black-and-white format. McFarlane says in his foreword it's to preserve the &quot;Film-Noir&quot; feel, but I think it's just cheapness on his part. For a Black-and-white book, Udaku is WAAY too pricey, and as with other books that were meant to be presented in color, the art in the book, not being drawn specifically FOR the black-and-white medium, is hard to follow at points; It's too cluttered and busy. Too many fine lines all blending together. And finally, C)- Word baloons didn't become prevalent for nothing. The dialogue floating around in the panels, with a squiggly line pointing to the character who is speaking doesn't work in a panel with five or six characters. I often had NO idea who was saying what to whom. Bad idea.<br />  The story picks up in the fifth chapter, as we find out just who or what Udaku IS, leading up to what may be the most cinematic finale I've ever seen in a comic. I thought the revelation of the killer proved to be a little too Sci-Fi for my tastes, and I still don't really understand the signifigance of the body parts at the crime scenes. Bendis might have been better served by leaving the more far-fetched aspects of the tale on the cutting-room floor, but overall, Udaku had SLIGHTLY more pro than con going for it.	2002-11-07
US	42627253	R14MMZV1OBEUVD	0451183908	189956969	University	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Neat Spin On The Traditional "Bad Place" Story.	I read \\"The Summoning\\" by Bentley Little a few weeks ago, and was absolutely blown away. I quickly scrambled into action, and bought up every single book Little has written; But as I started reading University, I thought of something REALLY scary....What if I had just wasted a ton of money on books that stunk? What if The Summoning was a fluke, and all his other books reeked...?<br />  Shouldn't have worried! While not quite as good as The Summoning, University is a fun read. Little goes your typical haunted house/bad place story one better, giving readers an evil, sentient College campus getting ready to \\"graduate\\", I.E. move on to its next stage of evolution. Little is well-versed in Horror vernacular and traditions/cliches, and he makes good use of that knowledge here, referring to classics like Hell House, The Shining, Burnt Offerings, and Shirley Jackson's infamous Hill House; He even throws in a character named Eleanor! The cool thing is his CHARACTERS are also aware of the Horror cliches; At one point they even try to pick out which member of their group will die by ticking off the Horror-Novel death list: The weirdo, the unattached character, etc. I did feel that certain parts of the ending were a tad corny, and I was disappointed that, after telling us how a standard Horror novel would handle main-character-deaths, Little took the same cliched route, killing just who we'd expect. Other than that small beef, University is a fun, gross way to spend a few days. Looking forward to reading more of Mr. Little's work.	2002-11-05
US	42627253	R9HE226XY80M0	0785109447	182391633	Marvel Visionaries Jim Steranko TPB	Books	2	28	37	N	N	Worth It Only For Steranko's Art.	Marvel Visionaries: Steranko is NOT the book to get if you're looking for a good read. The book is REALLY slim, and story-wise, the choices leave a lot to be desired. There's a two-part X-Men story, which is virtually unreadable- It's a convoluted, overwritten mess, and Steranko's art is very primitive. The three-part Captain America is a much better choice, as it showcases Steranko's groundbreaking visual style to much better effect, but the plot itself is sloppy, and it's way too long at nearly 60 pages; It could have been done in half that, and some of the logical lapses just boggle the mind. The android Vision knocked out by gas...? He doesn't BREATHE!! Why does the cornered Captain America just happen to have an inflatable replica of himself, complete with a lifelike face mask, and how does he get his costume off of himself and onto the dummy in a few seconds????? Stupid stuff...<br />  The horror story that is included is a keeper, though. I remember reading this when I was a kid in Les Daniel's excellent Comix: An Illustrated History, and it still packs a punch. Steranko's visuals are stunning, and you can see his influence in character poses and page layouts to this day. The last story is a Stan Lee/Steranko romance short, and in light of political correctness and Women's lib, it's hilarious. One scene in the story screams out sexual harassment, and I think this cornball classic alone is worth the price of admission. Steranko's art on this piece is simply stunning; WAY ahead of it's time. The color reproduction on all of the stories is nice, better than I've seen in previous reprints of this material. The book is rounded out with a nice selection of Steranko's Marvel cover illustrations.<br />  Overall, fan's of Steranko's art will enjoy this installment of Marvel's Visionaries series. People looking for a good read might want to give this a pass.	2002-10-31
US	42627253	R1RHW9O91ELEM9	0871352567	995171216	Marvel Graphic Novel #27  Emperor Doom Starring the Mighty Avengers	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Very Interesting Concept, Very Flawed Execution.......	Emperor Doom uses a GREAT idea as a springboard: What if the bad-guy actually acheived his goal of World domination? From that great concept comes this average Graphic Novel...<br />  Doctor Doom, one of the all-time great Marvel Villains, uses the persuasive powers of The Purple Man to cloud the minds of everyone on Earth, allowing him total unopposed dominion. And guess what? Things are actually BETTER than they were before. People are happy, crime is virtually non-existant, no one wants for food or shelter, Worldwide Economy is good, everyone has jobs....But do the ends justify the means?<br />  Writer David Micheline uses a plot-device that stands out like a sore thumb to keep one of The Avengers free of the control of The Purple Man, and that kind of tainted my enjoyment of the book. It just seemed too far-fetched. Also, this is probably the third time I've been exposed to the character The Purple Man, and I still have no idea where he got his powers from. A little explanation would have made things easier to swallow....<br />  Micheline's writing gets the job done; He does a great job of making Doom a real threat; Menacing yet Regal. I appreciated the sense of ennui creeping over Doom towards the end of the book. Apparently the chase is more fun than the prize itself. I did feel the book ended too abruptly, and without a satisfying confrontation between Good & Evil. The art, by Bob Hall, didn't exactly light me on fire, but his characters all look distinctive, and the action scenes look good.<br />  Overall, Emperor Doom is nothing special, but at least we get to see what would happen if the bad-guy actually won....	2002-10-30
US	42627253	R2SCONS7437HUS	0399131442	972332907	The Touch	Books	3	16	16	N	Y	Interesting Characters Make It Worth A Look	The Touch is Book Three in Author F. Paul Wilson's &quot;Adversary Cycle&quot;, and while I've enjoyed all three books (The Keep and The Tomb are the previous installments), I still have NO clue what the have to do with one another. The Touch is a marked departure from the Horrific aspects of the two prior Adversary books; It's more in line with Wilson's Medical thrillers. Doctor Alan Bulmer is gifted (Or is it cursed..?) with the Dat-Tay-Vao, which enables him to heal with a touch, but seems to be exacting a terrible price. The characters are realistic and engaging, and Wilson's writing style is brisk; The story moves along quickly, and I was pleasantly surprised that I wasn't able to predict every plot-twist a mile in advance. I'm looking forward to reading the rest of Wilson's Adversary books.	2002-10-28
US	42627253	R10N7YNXL1YSKP	1887279091	922412364	Angela (Spawn Series)	Books	1	13	25	N	N	Junk. Pure Junk.	I've bought a few Spawn-related stories in the past, when a favorite Writer was involved, such as Dave Sim, Alan Moore, Frank Miller, Neil Gaiman, etc. With the exception of Frank Miller's Spawn/Batman crossover, and Alan Moore's Violator and Violator/Badrock, they've all stunk. I blame this on the character of Spawn himself, which is truly limited by it's one-dimensionality. Not even the greatest Writers in the field of comics can make him interesting.<br />  Angela's Hunt will be incomprehensible to people who haven't read Spawn #9, also written by Neil Gaiman. It should have been included in the book, as the story makes precious little sense without it. Gaiman, who created the amazing Sandman for DC, has finally done something I didn't love. (First time for everything, I suppose...) The book is only interesting as a historical footnote now, as it was the catalyst for the recently decided Todd McFarlane/Neil Gaiman Lawsuit over the ownership of Angela, Cogliostro, and Medieval Spawn. (Gaiman won, and was granted ownership of the characters, as well as a settlement and residuals from other uses of those characters, including their appearances in the Spawn movie & cartoons.) <br />  Spawn fans ONLY should read this; Gaiman fans should steer clear. You're not missing anything.	2002-10-28
US	42627253	R23FR8SGHY6IUQ	0812503751	828500582	Soft and Others	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Fun Anthology, With Some Real Gems	Soft and Others is a collection of 16 short stories, mostly from Author F. Paul Wilson's early career. The stories themselves cover a wide range of topics, from Sci-Fi (The Cleaning Machine, Ratman, and the moving &quot;To Fill The Sea and Sky&quot;) to Horror (Traps, Buckets, and Cuts, all of which are excellent.), with one story, Dat-Tay-Vao, being a precursor to Wilson's novel The Touch. Every story features a brief introduction from the Author. I bought the book thinking that it was all Horror; I was kind of dismayed to discover that it's half Horror, half Sci-Fi, but Wilson did such a great job with the Sci-Fi stories that I stopped worrying after the first one. If an Author can make a genre I usually don't like seem palatable, he must be doing something right. Highly recommended!	2002-10-24
US	42627253	R2B5KTIT6B0RRB	0451199669	849860918	The Blair Witch Project	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Very Creepy Stuff!	The Blair Witch Project: A Dossier is a LOT more than just a movie tie-in- It's a very scary experience in it's own right. Author D.A. Stern uses the same &quot;It's all true&quot; approach as the movie, often to chilling effect. The book starts out as a compendium of facts about the missing filmmakers, but soon becomes a semi-sequel, as the investigators whose reports and interviews we've been reading decide to set off into the Black Hills themselves.<br />  The characters are vividly rendered by Stern, which is amazing, considering how there isn't a normal narrative structure to work with. I was truly worried about the Investigators by the time they made their way to the ruins of Rustin Parr's house. Stern also provides some much-needed insight into the film that makes repeat viewing MUCH more rewarding, and the entries from Heather's journal shed a whole new light on her character. The book is well-done all around, and I especially appreciated the little spot-varnished handprints all over the cover. Nice touch! Overall, I highly recommend this book to any Blair Witch fan; I think even non-fans will appreciate Stern's storytelling style....	2002-10-18
US	42627253	RCTWHA52E7I2I	0743411536	896977266	Blair Witch: The Secret Confession of Rustin Parr	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Fine Addition To The Blair Witch Mythology.	I bought this book thinking it would, indeed, contain the &quot;Secret Confession of Rustin Parr&quot;. As another reviewer said, it skirts that issue neatly. Author D.A. Stern does, however, deliver an interesting mystery, and makes it fit with all of the other facts in the Blair Witch &quot;History&quot;. The book keeps the prerequisite amount of ambiguity, and as in all other Blair Witch products, there are many ways one could interpret the events depicted. Overall, it's a good read, if a tad quick. Stern manages to deliver some truly creepy moments, and the ending does pack a punch. I'd recommend potential readers check out Stern's Blair Witch Project: A Dossier, and the video The Massacre of the Burkittsville Seven beforehand, though, as both are heavily referenced throughout the book.	2002-10-15
US	42627253	R1UB41CXHXEG43	0785108998	819499861	The Complete Frank Miller Spider-Man	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fun Stuff From Miller's Early Days	First off: This is NOT The Dark Knight Returns starring Spider-Man. A lot of people semm to be expecting a huge new Frank Miller Spidey tale, and are bummed out over getting some really old reprints from Miller's early days, before his style was fully formed. For those that know what they're getting, The Complete Frank Miller Spider-Man is a fun trip down memory lane. The stories, with one exception, aren't written by Miller, and the one he wrote was drawn by Herb Trimpe; You won't be getting the Miller writing/art combo that made him famous, but the stories are fun, if somewhat standard. The production values for the book are great- It's a really beautiful package, and the colors look awesome. In addition to the reprinted stories (Guest starring The Punisher, Moon Knight, Power Man &amp; Iron Fist, Daredevil, Doctor Strange, and Doctor Doom, among others), there is also an extensive cover gallery, featuring ALL the Spider-Man covers Miller ever did, and the dust-jacket features a brand-new Miller illustration. For a long-time fan of both Spidey AND Miller, like me, this was money well-spent. Loads of fun!	2002-10-15
US	42627253	R1GQ1VN37A0U63	006093185X	372481267	Bootleg	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Fast, Funny Read	Continuing the trend of stand-up comedians putting their act on the printed page, Bootleg offers small snippets of Damon Wayans' wit and wisdom on a variety of topics, including, but not limited to, race, marriage, kids, sex, pets, and growing up \\"Po\\". I especially enjoyed the stories about his famous siblings when they were all kids. The book is VERY slim, and most pages are only 1/2 to 3/4 filled, so it's a REALLY quick read, but as Damon points out in the book, if it makes me laugh, it's ok. I laughed a LOT, so it was worth the price. Lots of fun!	2002-10-11
US	42627253	R3JXPKXHVYHMC5	1891867199	646928106	Bogus Dead	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Very Mixed Bag....	Spinning off of the premise of the horror classic &quot;Night of the Living Dead&quot;, Bogus Dead presents a few dozen similarly-themed short stories by some of the brightest lights in Indy Comics. Some of the stories work quite well, most don't work at all. I found the book to be a torturous read, and the handful of truly inspired stories aren't enough to earn a recommendation. Give it a quick skim before buying to see if it's your cup of tea. I was very disappointed.....	2002-10-04
US	42627253	R2XUY90Y78LDKS	078510870X	136136893	Ultimate Marvel Team-up 1	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Great Read For Spidey Fans!	Ultimate Marvel Team-Up is the comic equivalent of a summer blockbuster movie- Lots of action, bare-bones plot, quick, hard-hitting fight sequences....<br />  This beautiful book reprints Ultimate Marvel Team-Up #'s 1-16, featuring the young hero's meetings with Wolverine (Vs. Sabretooth), The Hulk, Iron Man, The Punisher and Daredevil, The Fantastic Four (Vs. The Skrulls), Man-Thing (&amp; The Lizard), The X-Men, Doctor Strange (Vs. Xandu), The Black Widow, and Shang-Chi, Master of Kung-Fu. The art is by a wide variety of comic superstars, including Matt Wagner, Chynna Clugston-Major, Rick Mays, Terry Moore, Mike Allred, John Totleben, Ted McKeever, Bill Sienkiewicz, Phil Hester &amp; Ande Parks, and many more. Writer Brian Michael Bendis continues his winning streak with some truly absorbing stories; How many writers can do a story where Spider-Man and the X-Men sit around in a mall food court TALKING and still make it a must-read? Truly superior stuff, highly recommended.	2002-10-04
US	42627253	R34608Z5DF4K3O	0785108076	195523795	Ultimate Marvel Team-Up	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Lots Of Fun!	I always loved the old Marvel Team-Up book from the '70s; It was my favorite book when I was a kid. When I heard that Marvel was going to dust off the concept and make it an &quot;Ultimate&quot; book, I had two reactions: Yay! and Hmmm...The Ultimate universe is so new that this might just clutter up things with tons of new heroes and villains. The truth is a little of both.<br />  I still feel that they moved too fast to populate the Ultimate universe, but at least they delivered a hum-dinger of a book in the meantime. Writer Brian Michael Bendis does a great job of making each story accessible, and the artists really do a great job with their chapters. The trade-paperback reprints issues 1-5, and include appearances by Wolverine and Sabretooth (with art by Matt Wagner), The Hulk (By the Green Arrow team of Phil Hester and Ande Parks), and Iron Man (By Madman creator Mike Allred). The stories are quick and to the point, with the two-part Hulk story just a big chase scene, albeit a VERY well-done one. Bendis, Hester, and Parks deliver some stunning action, and manage to drop a few cryptic clues as to the TRUE reason all of these people are suddenly gaining super-powers. (I hope the Ultimate books pick this ball up and run with it!) Fans looking for a good (FUN!) read will love this book!	2002-09-30
US	42627253	R2V8AWZJ2BBWE0	0785108785	685956280	Fury MAX (Fury #1-6)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Marvel Gets "Mature".....	Let's get this said right off the bat: When I finished the first chapter of Fury, I was ready to throw the book down in disgust. I was not impressed with Garth Ennis' foul-mouthed, whoring interpretation of Marvel icon Nick Fury. I kept going, though, and I'm glad I did.<br />  Nick Fury is a man left behind by the agency, S.H.I.E.L.D., that he helped build. He's a cold-war dinosaur who is finding that, without a war to fight, his life just isn't worth living. He's reduced to a drinking, whoring old crank....until a chance encounter with an old enemy changes everything. While rembering old times over a drink, Yuri Gagarin waxes poetic about how he and Nick could go somewhere and start their own war, and bring the glory days back. Fury laughs it off, but soon enough, Gagarin has started a coup on a small but strategically placed island near Hawaii, and is about to trigger World War III. Suddenly Fury is important again...<BR> <BR>  After the first chapter, and the pointless focus given to Fury's nephew Wendell, the book takes off. Artists Darick Robertson & Jimmy Palmiotti have clearly based their Fury on Clint Eastwood, and I could easily imagine Clint playing out this story on the big-screen. The final chapters play out like the best summer action movie you've never seen, and Ennis' pacing is flawless. Be warned, though- This is a \\"Max\\" book, Marvel's \\"Mature Readers\\" imprint, and BOY, does it earn that title: Death, destruction, dismemberment, used condoms, disfigured soldiers with obscene names, a man being strangled with his own Intestines....The list goes on and on.  The action finale is mind-boggling, and the final sequence is staggeringly memorable. I'd love to see Ennis, Robertson, and Palmiotti do a return engagement with Nick Fury.	2002-09-27
US	42627253	RXH5UCX6ZEVIR	091303567X	214094293	Brought to Light: A Graphic Docudrama.  Two Books in One: Flashpoint--the La Penca Bombing/Shadowplay--the Secret Team	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Interesting, But Uneven....	Considering that Brought To Light was published in 1988, and the book seems to imply that the lid would be blown off of these scandals, it's ironic to read it now and see that not only did nothing come of the expose, but no one even seems to remember (or care) about La Penca.<br />   Brought To Light is designed as a flipbook, with each side having a complete story, and it's own cover. The stories can be read in any order, as they only really converge at the end.<br />  I read Flashpoint: The La Penca Bombing first, and it's the best of the two. Joyce Brabner and Tom Yeates tell the story of a couple of American journalists trying to expose American involvement with the attempted assassination of a Guerilla leader in Central America. It's a gripping story, but with almost 15 years elapsing since it's original publication, I can't help but wonder what the REAL story is, and if anyone was ever brought to justice. Another reviewer here states that the whole story was later recanted....<br />  Shadowplay: The Secret Team, is a whole other ball of wax. Both stories are based on a lawsuit filed against the Federal Government by The Christic Institute, in which they hoped to expose 30 years of illegal and unconstitutional U.S. covert activities. Where Flashpoint tells a straightforward docudrama tale, Shadowplay is like Oliver Stone on a bad acid trip. Alan Moore and Bill Sienkiewicz' hallucinatory tale is a conspiracy-nut's wet dream, but the art is almost as hard to follow as the twisting logic of the narrative, and the lettering is so hard to read, I was sorely tempted to just stop reading the book entirely, something I NEVER do....Usually I LOVE Alan Moore, but this story was just too much.<br />  Overall, Brought To Light is an interesting read. If you already distrust \\"The Man\\", it won't tell you anything you didn't already suspect. And if you buy everything Uncle Sam tells you, you won't buy what the writers are selling.<BR>It's an interesting look back at a time when it seems America was more naive and trusting in the Government, but that's about it.	2002-09-23
US	42627253	R1PE2034NKV7Q8	0785108084	2204560	Daredevil Vol. 2: Parts of a Hole	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Another Epic Daredevil Tale!	What is it about Daredevil that seems to bring out the best in a writer and artist..? Miller and Janson, Kevin Smith, Quesada & Palmiotti, Bendis & Maleev, and now David Mack....<br /> Parts of a Hole tells the triangular story of Daredevil, The Kingpin, and a new character, Echo. Echo was the child of one of The Kingpin's enforcers, and she blames DD for the death of dear old Dad....even though The Kingpin pulled the trigger. Echo is kind of the dark reflection of Daredevil- Where he is blind, Echo is DEAF, and the dichotomy this presents is perfectly presented by the talented David Mack. Add to this stew a romance between DD and Echo in their civillian identities, and you have the makings of a Greek tragedy....<br /> The art, by Joe Quesada and others, is great; Quesada manages to stretch his palette in new directions, tipping the hat to David Mack's art, while still maintaining his own recognizable style.<br /> A prevoius reviewer stated that the fill-in issue spoiled the pacing of the book, and shouldn't have been included in the collection. I must respectfully disagree, and say that I loved the fill in issue, and applaud it's inclusion. I found the way they were able to craft a tale that took place in the minutes-long span between issues AND make it thoughtful and exciting, to be nothing short of amazing, and I think that it was a highlight of the story for me. The great thing about including the story is this: If the reader gets a few pages into it, and finds it's not to their liking, they can just skip right by it and get back to the main story. (Don't skip it, though! I think you'll be pleasently surprised.)	2002-09-22
US	42627253	R3R95B9VUK7B1X	078510948X	411001293	Daredevil Vol. 3: Wake Up	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Tough Tale Of Child-Abuse.	In Wake Up, Daredevil takes a back seat to one of my all-time favorite supporting characters in the Marvel Universe- Daily Bugle reporter Ben Urich.<br />  The story is deceptively simple: Urich, assigned to cover the trial of The Kingpin (This story takes place simultaneously with the previous DD collection, Parts of a Hole, but is free-standing, and requires no knowledge of that story..), instead becomes obsessed with a darker, more personal story: Low-level career criminal Leap-Frog has vanished, and his young son, Timmy, has gone into a state of shock. He draws pictures of Daredevil, Leap-Frog, and a mysterious character, &quot;Fury&quot;, battling each other...As Urich explores the connections between Timmy's condition, Leap-Frog's disappearance, and Daredevil, the shocking truth emerges....<br />  David Mack's art is stunning, and Brian Michael Bendis contributes some of his most thought-provoking scripting ever. The only problem I had is Urich's flashbacks of Elektra and The Kingpin. I've been a fan of Daredevil since I was a child, so I got all of the refrences; Newer readers would just be confused. Maybe an afterword explaining these sequences would make the story more new-reader friendly. Otherwise, this is one of the best Daredevil stories, no, make that the best STORIES, I've read in a good long while. Highly recommended!	2002-09-22
US	42627253	R1VZV34EBRU4RE	0606221409	313418903	Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (Harry Potter)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Three Stars For The Book, Five Stars For The Worthy Cause.	Fantastic Beasts is a cute little book. I appreciated the effort that went into maintaining the illusion that this was an actual textbook from Harry Potter's \\"World\\", especially the notes scribbled at odd intervals by Harry and Ron Weasley. There's an informative introduction by Albus Dumbledore, and a foreward by Author Newt Scamander. There are also illustrations scattered throughout of some of the 75 Beasts described in the text. A short read, but lots of fun, and a few really good laughs.<br /> Now, onto the real reason to get the book: Proceeds will benefit Harry's Books, a division of Comic Relief U.K., to help impoverished children around the world. Big kudos to the talented J.K. Rowling for donating her time, efforts, and talent to this cause. By buying this book you will be helping needy children, and getting a fun read at the same time. Harry Potter fans won't be disappointed!	2002-09-21
US	42627253	R2B2SFA3FQZOV9	1563894653	728506304	The Sandman Companion	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Must-Read for Sandman Fans!	When DC released the first issue of The Sandman, I picked it up because the concept seemed cool. I hadn't read any of Writer Neil Gaiman's previous work except Black Orchid, but I thought I'd give it a try. Little did I know that I was about to step into one of the most well-told stories I've ever read.<br />  Sadly, Neil Gaiman concluded The Sandman after 75 issues. The good side of that is The Sandman is so superbly crafted that repeated readings yield new insights into the characters and their histories. I've read the series three times, so I figured The Sandman Companion would just reaffirm things I already knew.<br />WRONG!<br />  Turns out I HAD caught a lot of the hidden subtexts, but a lot more had slipped right by me. I still haven't had my #1 Sandman question answered (What WAS the favor Morpheus wanted from Loki in exchange for his freedom in &quot;A Season of Mists&quot;...?), but I learned so much more that I didn't know that I feel like reading the series yet AGAIN! Hy Bender tackles the series by collection, giving a comprehensive overview of each arc, following that up with interviews with Neil Gaiman and the various other contributors. The book is packed with information, and is done in such a breezy style that I never wanted to put it down. Also, the hardcover is just beautifully designed. It's truly a great package, and I can't recommend it highly enough- Not just for Sandman fans, but for anyone who wants to get into the creative processes of a talented Author.	2002-09-20
US	42627253	RZPO56JT4NZ87	1582402442	23511009	Bulletproof Monk	Books	1	5	19	N	N	Bulletproof Junk.....	I was mainly drawn to Bulletproof Monk because John Woo, one of my all-time favorite action-movie directors, is helming an adaptation starring Chow Yun-Fat. Woo also wrote the introduction. Along with Mike Avon Oeming's art, that's about all that's worth a look.<br />  The story seems to be patterned after kung-fu movies, but the creators seem to forget that the fun of a kung-fu flick is NOT the dopey plot, or the deep meditations of the tortured characters, but the KUNG-FU. Seeing 2 VERY short action sequences in print is not a thrill....<br />  The characters are all forgettable, and I didn't feel for any of them in the slightest. My sole enjoyment in this waste of money came from the numerous self-congratulatory essays from the various people involved with the book. They practically break their arms patting themselves on the back..<br />You'd think you were reading about Catcher in the Rye, instead of an overrated amateur-hour piece of junk. Pass at all costs!	2002-09-18
US	42627253	R1SFSUIRLMROS9	1840234350	808980079	Tank Girl (v. 1)	Books	2	8	43	N	N	Pointless and Sloppy.	Cute art by Jamie Hewlett can't offset the awful writing of Alan Martin. The stories themselves are pointless and meandering, and the &quot;Brit-icisms&quot; mostly went right over my head. Tank Girl herself is cute, and the adventures of the foul-mouthed, beer-swilling, Kangaroo-shagging minx roaming the futuristic Aussie Outback are fun at times, but mostly just pointless and sloppy. I'm kicking myself not only for buying THIS, but for buying Volume 2 before I read 1.	2002-09-15
US	42627253	R34AMMYLAP7DQF	0684850621	991732083	The Walrus Was Paul: The Great Beatle Death Clues	Books	4	11	16	N	N	28IF...?	I remember being a little boy when my Mom told me all about the &quot;Paul is dead&quot; rumors, and I've always been fascinated by the odd clues in the songs and album art of The Beatles. The book is a brisk read, written in a fun, breezy style, and there's a color insert so you can see pictures of most of the visual clues described in the book. <br />  It seems too coincidental to me that all of these clues were accidents or misinterpretations; I tend to believe that this was a big joke between John and Paul, and that after the Manson killings it was decided to just keep mum about it; After all, it did sell albums...<br />   It was also fun to show my mom clues that she wasn't aware of. And just try to read the book and NOT go running out to buy some Beatles CD's.....	2002-09-15
US	42627253	R5EYOCYDUEOG1	0913035696	156494598	Pigeons from Hell	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Worth the Search!	I've been hunting for this book sine it was released in 1988, and I was recently lucky enough to acquire a signed edition of the hardcover. All I can say is that it was worth both the wait and the search.<br />   Pigeons From Hell is adapted from the classic Robert E. Howard short story by artist Scott Hampton. The story is a pretty straightforward southern-gothic ghost tale, with a little gore thrown in for good measure. Howard's prose is some of his best, and Hampton's art is breathtaking. His dark, moody paintings evoke a sense of isolation and terror that had me totally drawn into the story. I couldn't stop reading. The book also contains a foreward by noted horror author Ramsey Campbell. Highly recommended for horror fans!	2002-09-12
US	42627253	R2DH6Q420YUSXQ	0446387975	214519063	Camelot 3000 Wt	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Interesting, But Dated.	I remember when Camelot 3000 was originally released by DC. It was their first Maxi-Series, and Brian Bolland was so late with the art that it took over three years to put out 12 \\"Monthly\\" issues. The chaotic release schedule insured that I was never able to see how the series concluded...<br />   Flash forward almost twenty years: I'm almost 32 years old, and I guess I actually HAVE matured somewhat, because instead of the amazing classic I remembered, Camelot 3000 came across as cliched, corny, and just plain weird. The story takes place in the year 3000. when an alien invasion of Earth is in full swing. Young Tom Malory, after seeing his Mother and Father killed by the invaders, stumbles upon the crypt of King Arthur......Arthur is resurrected (As per the prophecy), and soon enlists Merlin and the reincarnated Knights of the Round Table in his war against the Aliens, who are actually the puppets of his half-sister Morgan LeFay. The long length of the book allows for some nice character exploration, and the art by Brian Bolland is great. The down side is this: Readers expecting a masterpiece will be disappointed by Mike W. Barr's script. Bolland's art is great, as I said, but I spent more than a little time laughing at his ridiculous \\"Futuristic\\" clothing designs. VERY dated.....<br />  Overall, worth a look for the curious comic fan, but not recommended for the more discriminating reader.	2002-09-11
US	42627253	R1WO1KU5EU6ZX1	1930997035	991012712	Tribulations	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	A Standard Tale Told EXTREMELY Well!	I was drawn to Tribulations as a result of my love for the comic-book work of author J. Michael Straczynski (Known hereafter as \\"Joe\\" to save me a bout with Carpal Tunnel Syndrome....). I loved his work on Rising Stars and Midnight Nation, and I figured this would be worth a look.<br /> First things first: This book is outrageously priced for such a slim paperback...<br /> Aside from the sticker-shock, the book itself is quite attractive- Well designed and laid out. The story itself is pretty standard stuff- Another reviewer said it seems like a made-for-TV movie, and, plotwise, I guess it does. A reporter is investigating a serial killer, and becomes involved with a mysterious man who may is trying to stop the murderer using some unconventional methods. Since I knew almost nothing about the book when I started reading it, and enjoyed the element of surprise, I won't say anything else. Joe manages to deliver a few scenes that were goosebump-inducing creepy, and the characters are fun and interesting. The mystery managed to keep me guessing until the very end, and since I can usually see the end coming a mile off, that's high praise indeed.	2002-09-10
US	42627253	R2I9ZYP5O1X7L0	1896597491	90887251	Summer Blonde	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A Work of Staggering Genius...	An struggling novelist tries to connect with his High-School dream girl, and instead finds himself drawn into a relationship with her teenage sister.<br />  A lonely man, obsessed with a girl he doesn't know, unwittingly goes from admirer to stalker.<br />  A socially awkward young woman, unable to deal with people face-to-face, starts making cruel crank phone calls, looking for human contact of any kind.<br />  Fate draws a high-school misfit closer to the girl of his dreams, much to the dismay of his only friend.<br />  These are the stories and characters presented in Summer Blonde, written and drawn by Adrian Tomine. The people in this book, and the situations they find themselves in, are quite often unpleasent, and Tomine never flinches away from showing us the darker side of human nature. There are no easy answers to be had for the problems these characters encounter, and like real life, the end isn't always what we expect, or want. There were many times when I recognized familiar traits in these characters, and that's Tomine's real genius: He holds a mirror up to us, and shows us ourselves, and the world, warts and all. <br />  This amazing book was my first exposure to Adrian Tomine, but definitely not my last. I can't recommend Summer Blonde enough.	2002-09-09
US	42627253	RFBH78ECKWCOP	1575664305	36141406	The Trench	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Don't think! Just read.......	The Trench is the literary equivalent of a Cheeseburger and Fries; You know it's not good for you, but you can't help enjoying it. I thought Meg, Steve Alten's first Megalodon novel, was pure trash. Totally forgettable, badly written, cliche-ridden, and it also had the MOST ridiculous ending of any story I've ever read. I bought The Trench because I'm Shark-obsessed, not because I was expecting War and Peace....<br />   Well, I'm happy to say that Alten's writing HAS improved somewhat. The portions of the story concerning Angel (The 72-foot offspring of the Meg from the novel of the same name) zip along briskly. Jonas Taylor is back in his Ahab role, hunting the Megalodon across the Seas, and Alten throws in a few other large Sea-Beasties, making some of The Trench a Godzilla-esque \\"Monster Vs. Monster\\" romp. Not so successful is the subplot about the Russian loon trying to crack the secret of Fission for Osama Bin Laden (!)....Those portions of the story become bogged down in inexplicable psuedo-science, and I just found myself getting listless, waiting for Angel to reappear.<br />  Overall, The Trench is a fun read, but leave your brain at the door....	2002-09-03
US	42627253	R90C1F8GOEYXQ	1563898020	583757422	Green Arrow: Quiver	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Green Knight Returns.....	When we last saw Ollie Queen, A.K.A. Green Arrow, he was being blown to bits in an exploding plane above Metropolis. No less an authority than Superman confirmed, after scanning the area, that there was nothing left. There would be no hope for the miraculous resurrection that we comic fans take for granted.<BR>So when big-shot movie guy Kevin Smith started making noise a few years ago about doing a Green Arrow book with Ollie Queen, I was intrigued, to say the least. How could he bring him back without resorting to a cheap gimmick that would make the story a joke...?<br /> Having just read Quiver, I really can't answer that. The story involves Heaven, Hell, The Supernatural, Superman, The Spectre, The Demon, The Phantom Stranger, Deadman, and a long-forgotten team from DC's past. None of these things should gel with a street-level hero like Green Arrow. NONE OF THEM. Yet Kevin Smith, with the art team of Phil Hester & Ande Park, made me buy into every bit of it. Smith deals with bits of DC continuity that I thought no one could possibly remember, but does it in such a way that, while bringing a smile to the face of longtime comic readers like me, doesn't alienate new readers or make them feel like they're missing something. The writing is top-notch, as is the art, and all involved deserve a round of applause for making every member of the DC Universe spanning cast act and look distinctive. The ending is scary, exciting, and touching all at the same time, and the final page gives readers something they've been clamoring for for years. I can't recommend Quiver enough, both to comic book fans, and fans of Mr. Smith's movies. Great, Great stuff!	2002-09-02
US	42627253	R3GP0DUX2940SV	0785108122	378093184	X-Men: Vignettes, Vol. 1	Books	3	8	13	N	N	A good Package, But Pricey.	Vignettes reprints the back-up stories from Classic X-Men #'s 1-13. As usual, Writer Chris Claremont's stories are too wordy, often giving extraneous information that the reader could glean from the art (By John Bolton, making a rare pen and ink appearance, a nice change of pace from his usual painting; The art is just as beautiful, no matter what medium he uses.). <br />  As a longtime Marvel fan, I found the stories complimented the older X-Men stories perfectly, giving me new insight into the old stories. The problem is, without the old stories, a new reader would be totally lost with most of these stories. The book is also over-priced for the scant 175 pages. Older X-Men fans will find a lot to cheer about, but readers who aren't up on their Mutant history will probably want to take a pass....	2002-08-25
US	42627253	R3IJBR2NTZK2U4	0785108971	981438878	Blade II	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Get It For The 9 Classic "Tomb of Dracula" Stories.....	First off: If you're just interested in Blade II the movie, you'd be better off buying the DVD. It'd probably be cheaper, and it's much more satisfying than the lame adaptation this volume contains. Steve Gerber's script is OK, but the art by Alberto Ponticelli is just awful. Blade is black, and Whistler is old and has long grey hair, so it's easy to tell who they are, but every other character looks totally nondescript: Every female looks like every OTHER female, every Vampire looks like every OTHER Vampire, and so on.....The story should be completey nonsensical and unfathomable to anyone who hasn't seen the movie. Wherever they dug Ponticelli up from, please throw him back. Or at least have him check out the rest of the book.....<br />  Which features the stunning art of the legendary Gene Colan and Tom Palmer art team, reprinting 9 stories from the classic Marvel Comic \\"The Tomb of Dracula\\" from the 1970's, written by Marv Wolfman. These stories were Vertigo and \\"For Mature Audiences\\" before there WAS Vertigo! And by \\"Mature\\" I don't mean blood and guts, because while action-packed, the stories are fairly bloodless. I'm talking about the depth and maturity with which these 25 year-old stories deal with the themes of good and evil, Religion, and the nature of man. To this day I have never seen the concept of Religion dealt with so frankly in a Comic Book. I read some of these books in their original format at the tender age of 7, and was very impressed with the epic scope of the story that was being told. I'm STILL impressed. The art is beautiful, and the writing by Wolfman is very sturdy, even managing to make such a ludicrous match as Dracula vs. The Silver Surfer seem interesting. Here's hoping Marvel will see fit to reprint the Dracula saga in it's entirety someday. Until then, get your fix of this legendary team's finest work right here.	2002-08-24
US	42627253	R32STZE4M6XPUK	0786014806	392822507	The Summoning	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A Unique Spin On the Traditional Vampire Tale.	The Summoning is the first Bentley Little novel I've read, but it won't be the last....His story of an ancient evil preying on the residents of a small Arizona town is absolutely riveting read.<br />   Little creates a smart cast of characters, including Rich Carter, editor of the local newspaper, and his Brother Robert, the local Sheriff, Sue Wing, a young Chinese girl whose Grandmother knows a thing or two about Vampires, and the Cup Hu Grignsi himself, an ancient vampiric monster who has decided to stop creeping around in the night, and make his presense known to the world. The method the creature intends to use to reveal himself to the World is pretty unique, but is bound to be troublesome to some of the more Religious readers. It made me a little uncomfortable, and I don't consider myself Religious at all. But I guess that's the mark of a good horror novel....The only thing keeping The Summoning from a perfect 5 is the ending: It seemed a little rushed, and I would have appreciated more insight into the Vampire. Overall, though, The Summoning is as creepy as hell, and one of the best books I've read in a good long while. I'm looking forward to reading more of Mr. Little's work.	2002-08-21
US	42627253	RIEJCYNYWV20O	0943151392	773291341	Dork Volume 1: Who's Laughing Now (v. 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What Do You Call A Dog With Wings?	For the answer, you'll have to read Evan Dorkin's hilarious, thought-provoking collection Dork: Who's Laughing Now? Aside from the hours of uproarious laughter that the book provided, I also had some \\"What The...?\\" moments as I realized that I was one of the people that Dorkin was making fun of at the moment...but that's cool, since Dorkin isn't too hip to make fun of himself as well. (No one is safe from his razor-sharp insights!) The book is split into sections, including The Murder Family, which would make a great sitcom, Devil Puppet, who gives glimpses of the hidden world around us, including the story of America's greatest songwriter (Milk, Milk, Lemonade....), and my favorites, the FUN strips, 20 pages with 7 strips per page.....get set for FUN!<br />  I can't recommend this book enough. What are you waiting for??? BUY and ENJOY, already!!!!!	2002-08-14
US	42627253	R3QY417QK8EZRF	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Snore!	I bought this book in the wake of the hype over The Phantom Menace, and the thought of seeing a new adventure of Anakin amd Obi-Wan in between movies seemed appealing. Unfortunately, Greg Bear lived up to HIS hype as \\"The greatest living writer of hard science-fiction\\"....epmhasis on HARD. Unlike the excellent Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter, by Michael Reaves, Bear emphasizes ridiculous tech (Wooden spaceships?) over characterization, and the characters all blur together into one nondescript bore, and the plot is just non-Star Wars-like; it seemed more like a Star Trek story. I really had to struggle to get through the book, and even though there IS an interesting development with Anakin, it really isn't enough to get me to recommend this clunker. I also didn't appreciate the way Bear wasted huge chunks of the book on the story of missing Jedi Vergere and her confrontation with \\"The Far Outsiders\\", a plot that goes nowhere, and is apparently a set-up for the New Jedi Order books. In the context of Rogue Planet, it's just sloppy and pointless.	2002-08-11
US	42627253	RPOZ5YV6Y8KY0	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	4	49	57	N	N	A Feast For Longtime Comic Readers.	Kingdom Come, through it's generation gap tale of Batman, Superman, and various other classic DC Super-Heroes fighting for humanity against the new breed of \\"Heros\\" that are indifferent to Human suffering, also functions as an allegory/wish fulfillment for creators Mark Waid & Alex Ross: Their hope that modern fans will stop embracing mindless walking-death-machine characters (Note the Liefeld-esque \\"Americommando\\", preceeding the Liefeld Captain America revamp by years, and the character of Magog, instigator of Kingdom Come's Kansas disaster, a thinly veiled jab at Marvel's Liefeld-created Cable.).<br />  Ultimately, despite the apocalyptic premise, Kingdom Come is a very hopeful and optimistic tale, with good prevailing over evil, and Waid and Ross get their point across quite well: Do we REALLY want heroes to act less-than-heroic? Would you rather entrust your life to Superman or Wolverine?<br />  Ross' art is lovely, and Waid does a fine job on the script, maybe his best ever. The only problem was, unlike other \\"Iconic\\" graphic Novels, like Batman: The Dark Knight Returns and Watchmen,  I think a strong knowledge of the DC Universe and it's denizens is a must for understanding the story. Thinking back, I don't think there were any expository captions in the book at all, and the cross-generational connections can be very overwhelming, even to a comic-geek like me.<br />  Overall, I think fans will be in heaven, and newcomers will at least get taken on a great thrill ride.	2002-08-06
US	42627253	R1MJOH9HN7LIE3	1840234377	132002513	Judge Dredd: Justice One (2000Ad Presents)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	GRUDD!	Mega-City One Space Shuttle Justice One is playing host to Judge Dredd when a Judge is murdered. With only a skeleton crew on board, Dredd's list of suspects is small, but troublesome: They're all fellow Judges....<br />  Justice One is ruined by the #1 problem I have with some Dredd stories: All of the Judges look exactly alike, so telling them apart in a whodunit is pretty tough. In the end, not only did I not KNOW whodunit, I didn't care. Justice One is a pretty weak Ennis/Dredd entry, but the back-up stories, Twilight's Last Gleaming, Ex-Men, Talkback, and especially A Man Called Greener, are all much more fun.....after all, how often do you get to see a major traffic pile-up caused by phlegm?	2002-08-05
US	42627253	RE8ZN8UU2BHVB	1569717443	85366667	What's Michael? Vol. 6: A Hard Day's Life	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another Instant Classic!	Makoto Kobayashi hits another home run with \\"A Hard Day's Life\\", more tales of the adorable cat Michael and his humans. It's amazing to see the range of emotions he can illustrate on the face of a Cat. Truly a superb artist! This volume offers glimpses into the origin of \\"Catzilla\\", the frustrations of Bear the dog, and gives Yakuza M a little payback on the mischevious Michael. Highly recommended to anyone who appreciates GREAT art and a few good laughs!	2002-08-03
US	42627253	R3QSEPDDY13OXZ	1569716196	824106949	Star Wars Tales, Vol. 1	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Something For Every Star Wars Fan!	Even the most jaded fan will love this collection! The stories range from poignant to absurd (but funny!), and the Darth Vader/Dark Woman tale by Ron Marz is required reading. A top-notch collection that every SW fan should have.	2002-08-03
US	42627253	R3E8SAOM7TAZQ3	1563898152	392358669	Jonny Double	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Strong Story Killed by A weak Ending......	Jonny Double marked the first collaboration of the 100 Bullets team of Brian Azarello &amp; Eduardo Risso, and it's easy to see why DC/Vertigo greenlighted that series after reading Jonny Double.<br />  The story follows aging beatnik/hipster Jonny Double, a former Cop, now sleazy P.I., as he takes the case of a missing girl, sought by her worried Father. (Anyone who has ever read a mystery or seen a noir film knows these cases are never so easy...) He soon becomes enmeshed in a cyber-crime plot to clean out an old bank account of Al Capone's, and (Of course) things go horribly awry.<br />  I was hooked by the quirky art and the tense story, but in the last 10-15 pages it all fell apart. The twists were telegraphed a mile away, and the switch in narrative at the end really felt forced. If this were a movie, the audience would have been screaming for a refund.<br />  Overall, Jonny Double is a fun read, and I'd like to see more of him, but the ending left a sour taste in my mouth. Mild recommendation.	2002-08-03
US	42627253	R2771RP4Y89NJN	0345435397	595671727	Darth Maul: Shadow Hunter (Star Wars)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fun, Fast-Paced Read.	I'm not really much of a fan of Star Wars novels; I have one or two, but generally I take a pass on them. But when I saw a book devoted to the ultra-cool Dart Maul, I had to give it a try.<br />  Michael Reaves deftly avoids the usual trap that makes me avoid sci-fi books like the plague: Too much tech, not enough characterization (A problem I'm having right now with the Star Wars: Rogue Planet novel...). The plot is very straight-forward, and reads like a briskly-paced summer action movie. Following the events in his Dark Horse Comics mini-series, where he decimated the criminal Black Sun organization, Maul finds himself assigned to a seemingly trivial duty. Find and kill a Nemoidian Trade Federation official who has gone AWOL, and is trying to sell information about the impending blockade of Naboo to the highest bidder. Sounds like a piece of cake, right? Wrong. Before long the information falls into the hands of  Jedi-hating \\"Information Broker\\" Lorn Pavan and his partner, I-5, a kind of criminal C-3P0. When Jedi Padawan Darsha Asant becomes involved, after miserably botching her Jedi trial, the trio finds themselves relentlessly pursued through the underworld of Coruscant by the machine-like Sith assassin.<BR>   <BR>  Reaves does a good job of making us care about the new characters, and he also drops in some old favorites like Yoda, Mace Windu, Qui-Gon Jinn, and, in a fairly large supporting role, Obi-Wan Kenobi. <br />   While I STILL don't understand the reason for the blockade of Naboo, Reaves tells his story with amazing clarity, even giving the reader glimpses into the backstory of Maul and his master Darth Sidious. Although anyone who has seen The Phantom Menace will be able to figure out the end, Reaves still manages to have the finale pack a punch. His writing style is fun, and I highly recommend the book to Star Wars fans and action fans alike.	2002-07-30
US	42627253	R3828QDLNBVIGS	1563897350	402322726	Goddess	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not Ennis' Best Work, But Still Entertaining.	In one of the strangest over-reactions of the time, DC/Vertigo postponed the publication of Goddess in the weeks after the September 11th attacks. The book contains some strong images of eco-terrorism, but the violence is SO over-the-top that it's hard to imagine anyone being offended....The story itself is simple- Young Irish lass Rosie Nolan begins to display strange, seemingly limitless powers. Finding herself pursued by a crazed C.I.A operative, she goes on the lam with 3 friends. Horrific violence ensues.<br />   Ennis' script will offer no surprises to longtime fans- We've seen this kinda thing before in Dicks, Hitman, and Preacher before. The art by Phil Winslade is great; You can actually see the progression of his talent as the book nears it's conclusion. The book picks up after a slow start, and the end is truly original. The book also has a new introduction by Winslade, and a gallery of his sketches and unpublished art. Overall, not a bad package, and it's hard not to fall for the loveable Rosie....	2002-07-24
US	42627253	R1AJ1YODZ8ZLJX	0312863659	338518161	3: Titus Crow: In the Moons of Borea. Elysia : The Coming of Cthulhu	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Very Strange, But Has Some Great Moments.	With flying, time-jumping, interstellar Grandfather clocks, immortal Outer-Space monsters, drop-dead gorgeous alien women, and an (unintentional, I assume...) oddly homoerotic \\"friendship\\", Volume Three of Brian Lumley's Titus Crow series wraps up the set in a mostly satisfying manner.<br />   The first half, In The Moons of Borea, unites Hank Silberhutte, former Texan turned Warlord of the Ice-Planet Borea, with Henri-Laurent de Marigny, the former crony of Titus Crow. Together they ride a HURRICANE through Space (!) to try to retrieve the Time-Clock from the clutches of Ithaqua. With Outer-Space Vikings, frozen evil priests, and space-travel-via-weather-anomaly, this is perhaps the weirdest story I have ever read. Lumley manages to save the story by introducing some truly unique bad guys at the end, the aforementioned Ice-Priests of Ithaqua, but his penchant for describing the Eyes of Ithaqua as \\"Burning Carmine Orbs....\\" almost made me throw the book in the trash. He must use that line, or some \\"Carmine_ _ _\\" variation line, at least once a page in the \\"Moons\\" half of the book. <br />   In the second half, \\"Elysia, The Coming of Cthulhu\\" we should be getting an epic battle between the forces of good and evil, but we get almost 200 pages of Henri pining over his friend Crow, while scouring the Universe for characters from other Lumley books. (Considering the fact that Henri and Crow are both involved with women who are portrayed as stunningly beautiful, they seem to spend a lot of time thinking about how much they miss each other. Strange...)The characters of  Hero and Eldin (and the villainess Zura) are very interesting, though, and the brief final battle against The Elder Gods is compelling, with an ending worthy of a summer popcorn movie. All in all, not a great book, but some truly original moments make it worth a look.	2002-07-19
US	42627253	R2F44Z5W4KUS1X	1563898896	683629877	Human Target: Final Cut	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fans Of Mission: Impossible Will Love Final Cut!	Since DC has become notorious for publishing Hardcover books that DO NOT deserve the Hardcover format (I, Paparazzi, Batman books The Chalice, Fortunate Son, Harvest Breed, Dark Knight Dynasty, Etc.), I was ready to be disappointed by Human Target: Final Cut. I enjoyed Milligan's previous Human Target story, however, so I thought I'd give it a try. Glad I did! After finishing it, I actually had to sit for a few minutes and try to digest what I'd just experienced. It was a truly staggering read!<br />   Christopher Chance, the titular \\"Human Target\\", is just what his name implies: For the right price, Chance will assume the identity of people whose lives are endangered, using everything from fake mustaches and wigs, to Dermal Implants and Plastic Surgery. Here Chance assumes the identity of Dai Thomas, B-Movie actor, who is the third target of a homicidal Hollywood screenwriter trying to raise money for his movie project. After killing the stalker, Chance gets a bit of shocking news: The writer had kidnapped child-star Ronan White, and had hidden him away. With the kidnapper dead, Ronan will die of starvation, if he isn't dead already....and so Chance is forced to assume the identity of the killer/kidnapper, and descends into a maelstrom of drugs, murder, and nasty secrets. <br />  The underlying theme of Chance being absorbed into the \\"Roles\\" he plays is dealt with by Writer Peter Milligan very convincingly, and the art by Javier Pulido is perfectly suited to the twisty story. Milligan manages to tie all of the loose ends up in an ending that is not only satisfying, but jaw-dropping. How often can you sat that a book left you speechless at the end? Simply an amazing effort all around. The book is divided into 4 comic-book sized chapters, which makes me think that this was originally intended as a mini-series, and someone at DC thought it was so good it merited the deluxe treatment. If that's the case, there may be hope for DC's hardcover line yet....  :)	2002-07-17
US	42627253	R1ZL2P2TJFDE7Z	0785109099	31623848	Cable Volume 1: Shining Path TPB	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A New Direction For the Time-Tossed Mutant.	In The Shining Path, creators David Tischman and Igor Kordey send Cable, one of Marvel's most convoluted characters, in a bold new direction, and while they acknowledge his past history, they do all they can to make the story accessable to new readers.<br /> As the title implies, Cable goes up against a Peruvian terrorist group known as The Shining Path, who are attempting to topple the Government of Peru. The story stumbles when Tischman reveals that most of the Shining Path members are Mutants....There were interesting moments in the story, especially Cable attempting to teach Askani meditation to the children of the Shining Path, but the rest is pretty nondescript. The writing is ok, but I just can't warm up to Kordey's art. (I had an especially hard time following the wordless \\"'Nuff Said!\\" story at the end....Good thing the entire script is printed in the back....) The book is overpriced for such a slim volume, and even padding it with Kordey's essay about the September 11th terrorist attacks, the 'Nuff Said script, and Tischman & Kordey's original proposal doesn't go much further towards adding value for money. Considering the original issues can probably be had for around the same price, I'd advise interested parties to go that route. While The Shining Path was an OK way to spend an hour, I wouldn't come back for more.....	2002-07-15
US	42627253	RNKKHHT8VBOQD	1569715572	361827231	What's Michael? Vol. 5: Michael's Favorite Spot	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gut-Bustingly Funny!!	I'm more of a Dog person, but that hasn't stopped me from falling in love with Michael, Makato Kobayashi's trouble-making housecat.....In this volume we see the genesis of Michael's relationship with \\"Yakuza K\\", watch the epic wrestling match between Michael and the 33-pounder known as \\"Catzilla\\", learn the difference between a Human purse-snatcher and a Feline Mackrel-thief, and much, much more. There are quite a few laugh-out-loud moments, and if the sight of Catzilla sprawled out on the table, while his Humans try to eat dinner without disturbing him doesn't make you laugh, check your pulse. This would make a GREAT gift for a cat-lover who has never tried comics before!	2002-07-14
US	42627253	R1LSQ28LGQ1ILI	0943151228	314463578	Hectic Planet Book 2: Checkered Past (Bk. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dorkin Hits His Stride....	After reading the AWFUL Hectic Planet: Dim Future, I was less than thrilled that I had purchased all the volumes of Dorkin's Sci-Fi satire. The book was derivative, lifeless, and unfunny. I started reading Checkered Past with a sense of dread....<br /> Well, I needn't have worried, because Dorkin obviously found his voice after those initial issues. This book is touching, funny, and well-done all around.<br /> In Book Two, we follow the crew of The Jersey devil as they try to get off of the planet they're stuck on, see the next phase of the disastrous relationship between Halby and the lovely/crazy Elsie, watch Ron make a Hockey comeback, meet the hilarious \\"Fibby\\", and go for a 36-Hour shopping spree in the biggest supermarket EVER. The jokes all hit the mark, and despite the Sci-Fi trappings, Halby and Elsie's doomed love is really Heart-rending to watch. What guy couldn't identify with Halby...? My only beef is that Evan seems to have forgotten about the T.A.N.C..........(Also, be on the lookout for a cameo by the great Cowboy Wally!)	2002-07-10
US	42627253	R2Y3ZL3TR2M3B7	1563896923	363349537	Batman: Harvest Breed (Batman (DC Comics Hardcover))	Books	1	6	7	N	N	AWFUL AND INCOMPREHENSIBLE!	Batman: Harvest Breed is yet another example of DC putting out a Hardcover that wouldn't even fly as a regular edition comic-book.....I remember when a Hardcover was a rare thing, and fans got excited over them because they meant that the story was so special, so well-Written and Illustrated, that only a Hardcover format could do it justice. Arkham Asylum. Son of The Demon. These were important, well-done stories....Now, DC churns out Hardcovers like there's no tomorrow, battering expectant readers with junk like Dark Knight Dynasty, Fortunate Son, and now, Harvest Breed....<br />   Where to begin...? With the art that is often impossible to follow? With the murders that form a pattern on a map, one that is SO CONVOLUTED that no matter how many times I read and re-read it I still didn't understand it? How about the starting with the characters? Batman has NEVER been written more out of character than he is here. He belittles his only friend, Commissioner Gordon, and actually HITS HIM!!!HUH?? The supernatural element is ridiculously out of place here, and the image of Batman fighting a giant Devil actually made me break out laughing. It seems like Pratt saw \\"End of Days\\", and decided \\"Hey!! Imagine Batman instead of Arnold.....HMMMMM.....\\"<BR>  Pratt does manage to create some atmosphere during the Viet Nam flashback sequences, but otherwise the book is a laughable mess. The revelation of the killer is a joke, as is their motivation. And why does a girl born during the Viet Nam War appear to be a teen-ager? This book is just awful, and if I could go lower than 1 Star, I would. And in the future, I'll be VERY careful when purchasing a DC Hardcover, since they seem willing to publish any old crap....	2002-07-08
US	42627253	R6QMV80E8S0WB	0805064036	119696789	Pedro and Me: Friendship, Loss, and What I Learned	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Portrait of a Life-Changing Friendship	Anyone who watched MTV's Real World- San Francisco remembers Pedro Zamora, the young Cuban housemate who had AIDS. Over the course of the season we learned about the Disease from Pedro, and watched him form friendships with the others in the house. One of those new friends was Judd Winick, an aspiring Cartoonist. Since the show ended, Judd has realized his goal: He's become a successful Comic Writer/Artist, working on books like Barry Ween, Frumpy the Clown, Green Lantern, and Exiles. He has also become an AIDS educator, carrying on the work of his friend Pedro, who has since passed away.<br />   Pedro and Me is the story of their extraordinary friendship, told in Comic-Book form. Winick starts by giving us a brief background on himself, and then we learn about the amazing childhood of Pedro....I won't spoil anything; I'll just say that some of the facts we learn are incredibly interesting. Winick covers the Real World pretty well, thankfully not giving the loathsome \\"Puck\\" any attention at all, and moves forward to Pedro's death and beyond, letting us see how this courageous young man changed so many lives.<br />  This is truly an amazing book, and hopefully it will reach an audience that generally doesn't read comics. Pedro seemed like a truly good person, and the world is a poorer place for his passing.	2002-07-08
US	42627253	R3S7RPSKCPSOY0	1891867121	725518839	9-11: Emergency Relief	Books	5	1	4	N	N	A Touching Reminder Of A Day That United All Of America....	Where were YOU on the morning of September 11th, 2001? I was at work when Howard Stern reported that a plane had crashed into one of the World Trade Center Towers. Having been born and raised in The Bronx before moving to Rochester, N.Y., my workday immediately ended as I focused my full attention on Howard's show; He became my only link to the city I loved and would always call home. Later on came the TV reports and the images that will never leave my mind, but for those first few hours, I sat listening in shock as the man who makes me laugh every workday became my only connection to family, friends, and loved ones who were suddenly living in a war-zone. <br />   9-11: Emergency Relief is a benefit book that is filled with true stories from September 11th. They range from touching, to infuriating, to thought-provoking, and the list of creators reads like a who's who of Indy Comics: James Kochalka, Will Eisner, Tony Millionaire, Harvey Pekar, Tom Hart, Joyce Brabner, Ted Rall, and literally DOZENS of others. Besides being entertaining, and raising money for the Red Cross, the book fulfills another important purpose: It stands as a reminder of a day we must NEVER forget. God Bless America!	2002-07-07
US	42627253	RVSQY14AO1MFT	0312863470	297094962	2: Titus Crow: The Clock of Dreams ; Spawn of the Winds	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Weird Stuff......	Volume Two of Tor's three-volume omnibus reprints two books, The Clock of dreams and Spawn of the Winds. Much like Volume One, this book is a 50/50 affair....While the first half of Book One was GREAT, and the second half awful, we split the difference here: Part one is pretty good, if somewhat ridiculous, and part two is a vast improvement on what has gone before.<br />   The Clock of Dreams presents us with the laughable image of two middle-aged men tooling around Dreamland in a flying GRANDFATHER CLOCK.......This is just too ridiculous to get past. The story takes place in H.P. Lovecraft's Dreamland, home of my most hated Lovecraft stories, so already I have a predjudice against this chapter, but Lumley actually manages to deliver a brisk story with a few great moments; He does especially well with Lovecraft's turbaned Denizens of Leng....<br />    Spawn of the Winds fares better, because we're spared the boring presence of Titus Crow and his snooze-inducing crony, Henri. Spawn finds a team of psychics, mentioned briefly in Book One, who are abducted by Ithaqua, The Walker On The Winds, and taken to far-off Borea. From there we get a Robert E. Howard pastiche, as our two-fisted texan hero and his buddies are drawn into a war between Ithaqua's forces and the opposing army of his daughter, Armandra. The book is reminisicent of territory Lumley would cover later (and better...) in the Blood Brothers books. Spawn is a rip-snortin' action story, and together Clock and Spawn are a not bad read, if a tad predictable.	2002-07-03
US	42627253	R2AYIYKAC9M93U	0375404538	712745860	Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth	Books	3	8	15	N	Y	Truth In Advertising	In the lower right-hand corner of the cover, Chris Ware calls this book &quot;A bold experiment in reader tolerance&quot;, and he ain't kidding.....This was one of the most hard-to-follow, dragged-out affairs I've ever read.<br />   The book follows three generations of men (All named Jimmy Corrigan)...They're Father, Son, and Grandson, but Ware draws them all exactly the same, so I had a hell of a time figuring out just who we were watching at any given time. I had to use the different lettering styles each characters story is told with to tell them apart. There were times where my tolerance was stretched to the breaking point, and I actually had to get up and walk away from the book, before I picked it up and tossed it out the window. Ware is also enamored of long stretches of tiny blocks of print that contribute nothing to the narrative. I'll never know just what that page of restaurant descriptions was supposed to be about, because I got so bored I skipped right past it. <br />   I'll admit that by the end, I was fully drawn in to the sad tale, but getting there was a real struggle. The book is beautifully designed, and is a nice package for the price. It just seemed like a long trip to nowhere, though......	2002-06-24
US	42627253	RPP06QY6SJ7FG	156971584X	236503431	Planet of the Apes: The Human War	Books	1	5	6	N	N	It's a MADHOUSE!!!! A MADHOUSE!!!!	Planet of the Apes: The Human War commits the cardinal sin for a movie tie-in: It assumes you've seen the movie, and loved it so much that you'll buy into a story that really has nothing in common with it except the basic framework.<br />   Considering that Tim Burton's film wasn't well received by either critics OR fans (I liked it, though!), maybe Dark Horse's decision to have this book revolve around a trip to Calima (Astronaut Leo Davidson's downed ship, from which all Ape and Human life on the planet evolved) wasn't such a good idea...Why not? Well, because they assume the reader KNOWS what Calima IS, and what it's secret is, so they never tell us...we're just supposed to KNOW. I knew, and I was still unsatisfied, so I can imagine how a casual reader would feel after putting this book down. I was also disturbed by the totally out-of-place art, and the slang the Human characters use....\\"I am SO gonna kick your butt!!\\" doesn't scream out Planet of the Apes to me...it screams out sloppy writing, which surprised me, since I only bought the book because of Writer Ian Edginton, who is usually rock-solid. <BR>  All in all, a terrible effort, which makes it easy to see why Dark Horse's Ape revival only lasted a pitiful six issues. Avoid at all costs!	2002-06-23
US	42627253	R2MBIXZGCOOW94	0312862997	589421647	Titus Crow: The Burrowers Beneath, the Transition of Titus Crow	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Starts Strong, Goes Downhill FAST In Act II.	I have always been divided in my love of the great H.P. Lovecraft. Works like At The Mountains of Madness are classics- Well written, imaginative, creepy.....true masterpieces. Others, like Imprisoned With The Pharoes, were clearly paid-by-the-word pulp trash. And I have always hated his Dream-stories, finding them to be nothing but run-on nonsense filled with weird names, and devoid of any kind of coherence. Lumley here delivers one great \\"Mountains of Madness\\"-esque story, The Burrowers Beneath, and one Dreams-esque story, The Transition of Titus Crow, that is virtually unreadable.<br /> Burrowers introduces us to Titus Crow and his sidekick, Henri, who tells the story through diary entries and news clippings. The story concerns their fight against the monstrous titular Burrowers, spawn of Lovecraft's horrific Cthulhu and his ilk. Burrowers is nothing short of gripping, a real treat for Lovecraft fans. Had Lumley stopped there, the book would have been a 5-Star affair.....Unfortunately he gives us Transition, which brings us from the creepy horror of Burrowers to flying interstellar clocks, robot planets, the youthening of the elderly Crow (Via a robot body!), and his trip to the home of the Elder Gods, where he meets with lisping, flying Dinosaurs, and falls in love with a green haired girl. This IS all as bad as I'm making it sound.....<br /> Horror fiction walks a tightrope between the believable and the laughable, and with the second part of the book, Lumley leaps right into the laughable, and I'm now sorry I bought the other two books, which I'm really dreading reading, since they seem to be in the same vein as Transition.....I spent most of the second half of this book either saying \\"Oh, Stop...\\", or \\"COME ON, ALREADY!!!\\". It was a really torturous read. I would advise reading Burrowers, and quitting while you're ahead.<BR>On the plus side, Bob Eggleton's cover is great, and the three hardcovers look great together on the bookshelf, with their unifying \\"Eyeball\\" motif.....	2002-06-23
US	42627253	RW8YU4NY57ILB	1560973722	287535020	Champs	Books	1	0	1	N	N	What The....?	I had seen (And enjoyed) some of Weissman's other work before, and it seemed like everyone who ever reviewed a Yikes! book had nothing but praise, so I took the plunge: I bought Champs and Don't Call Me Stupid, and pre-ordered White Flower Day....<br />  I guess it must be me....I just don't get it. At all. I had trouble telling the characters apart. They all look the same! Much like Seinfeld, Champs is about nothing. Unlike Seinfeld, I didn't think it was funny. I did get a brief chuckle out of the fact that the entire world seems to revolve around children (Witness the infant Toreador, and the huge crowds that turn out to see Big Wheel races...),but that quickly passed, and I was left pondering the imponderable, such as...Why is that kid called &quot;Sweet&quot; Chubby Cheeks? Why is a Vampire tot able to run around in broad daylight? Who made Pullapart Boy? Why did I buy this? I would advise the curious to give this a quick browse before buying to see if it's your cuppa tea. Sadly, it wasn't mine.	2002-06-23
US	42627253	R1SFYEXTRQG5W8	1569715610	736498793	Aliens: Salvation and Sacrifice	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Best Aliens Comic EVER!	Aliens: Salvation and Sacrifice collects two one-shots by Dark Horse Comics that coincidentally deal with not only the marauding Alien \\"Bugs\\", but also with Religious faith being tested under extreme conditions....<br />   Part one, Salvation, by Dave Gibbons, Mike Mignola, and Kevin Nowlan revolves around a marooned duo, trapped on a planet with the Alien cargo their ship was carrying. As if the Aliens weren't bad enough, one of the men is stone-cold crazy, while the other clings to his religious beliefs for justification of the things he must do to survive. Mignola and Nowlan's art is gorgeous, and I've never been a fan of Dave Gibbons' writing, but his story is gripping, and the feeling of impending doom he creates is palpable.<br />   Part II, Sacrifice, deals with another marooned shipwreck survivor, this time a woman, who stumbles across another group of survivors, who have a faustian pact with the lone Alien who haunts the jungle outside their crude compound. Did I mention that the woman, Ann, is a Priest? She's been dealing with memories of seeing her mother murdered by an Alien over 20 years ago, and she sees this as her chance at redemption. Writer Peter Milligan does a great job, and the art, by painter Paul Johnson, is staggeringly beautiful. I've never seen the Aliens so well-depicted! You truly get a sense of the awe and fear that these creatures could inspire.<br />  All in all, Salvation and Sacrifice is an amazing example of what could be done with these creatures in the Comic format. (Try reading it while listening to Elliot Goldenthal's score for Alien 3- It'll crank the creepy factor up to 11!)	2002-06-20
US	42627253	R3O3NKI2M2AX3A	1569716285	849372155	Video Noire	Books	3	1	1	N	N	WEIRD.......	A Xuxa-esque childrens TV-show hostess, \\"Miss Dready\\", is in reality a demonic being bent on using the boob-tube to ensnare her young viewers in her web of evil. A harried P.I., investigating the gruesome death of his partner (Gnawed to death by Dready's \\"Nieces and Nephews\\"...) is drawn into the ancient battle of Good vs. Evil, and is soon neck-deep in Satanism, Beastiality, Human Sacrifice, and high-tech evil.<br />   Yeah, this IS just as weird as it sounds. The plot verges on ridiculous, but the art, by Eduardo Risso, of 100 Bullets fame, is gorgeous, and there are enough good things about the book, especially the nihilistic ending, that I can give it a MILD recommendation to people looking for something VERY different.<BR>Fans of films like Angel Heart and VideoDrome will probably feel right at home with the lovely Dready.....	2002-06-13
US	42627253	R3NYRU58BPMNIJ	1563898659	212524395	The Name of the Game (Will Eisner Library)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An Interesting Morality Play.	In an industry where the average \\"Hot\\" artist (or writer, for that matter), has a career lifespan of 10 years, Will Eisner is a true oddity. Not only is he still creating new work after over 60 years in the business, but he's still a vital creative force; He's doing stuff that no one else is.<br />   The Name of the Game is the story of three Jewish families, and how the \\"Game\\" of marriage affects the fortunes of various members of those families. Eisner's art is great, as usual, but I felt no real emotional attachment to any of the characters in the book (except for Rosie, at the very end, and even she is morally co-opted before it's all over.), but perhaps that was Eisner's intent. We see so many cold, emotionless people doing rotten things to each other that we get detached, and in the end, these people have all gotten not just what they wanted, but what they deserve. (He does manage to give the vile Conrad Arnheim some Human qualities...even though he cheats on his wife, and beats her, he gives stock tips to his chauffer...)<br />   The Name of the Game is an attractive package, and pretty much anything by Eisner is worth a look.	2002-06-13
US	42627253	R11ZJREJN7L5AO	0449213803	445698117	Caravans	Books	5	177	182	N	Y	Great History Lesson and Great Read!	Don't be fooled by the &quot;Harlequin Romance&quot;-looking cover art. Caravans is a ripping good adventure/travelogue/history lesson, with some romance thrown in for good measure. <br />   The story is simple: An American girl who married an Afghani man is missing in Afghanistan. Her family is frantic, and a military man stationed in Afghanistan in 1946 is assigned to find out what happened to her. The story veers into some unexpected territory, and Michener delivers a TON of Historical perspective on the people and places of Afghanistan without ever making you feel like you're back in History class. (This is a VERY illuminating book to read after September 11th...)<br />   The characters are interesting, and the book just zooms along: I finished it in no time flat. My only complaint is the map in the beginning of the book: It's printed so dark that it's totally useless.	2002-06-09
US	42627253	RFX051WVWNUQS	078510867X	604112777	Universe X, Vol. 1 (Earth X 2)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Longtime Marvel Fans Will Revel In The Dense Plotline......	Universe X is the sequel to Earth X, and the middle section of a huge trilogy. It continues the basic plot threads from the previous series- In the Marvel Universe of the future, many of the heroes we know are dead, many more are changed beyond recognition, the population of the Earth has been mutated by the Terrigen Mists of The Inhumans, and The Celestial Plot has been foiled....<br />    This chapter starts with Reed Richards (Of the Fantastic Four) trying to keep the hordes of Mutated Humanity from dousing his &quot;Human Torches&quot;, Giant pyres that will reverse the effects of the Terrigen Mists....Seems that most of the world doesn't WANT to be normal again. From there the story becomes positively byzantine, and I expect readers who aren't well-versed in the particulars of such obscure characters as The Living Mummy, The Micronauts, Captain Universe, etc., will feel totally lost. I, on the other hand, have been a comic-book geek for my entire life, so this was like a trip down memory lane, revisiting characters I haven't seen in ages. (It's nice to know that Alex Ross and Jim Krueger, the creative forces of the &quot;X&quot; books, are apparently bigger geeks than me! Who else would wonder why the omniscient Captain Marvel didn't forsee the cancer that killed him?)<br />   As dense as the book sometimes is, it's worth buying. Especially good is the Captain America chapter, as Cap struggles to protect the child-incarnation of Mar-Vell. A very moving story that captures, maybe better than any other story, the essence of the Cap character. I was truly touched. <br />   The art varies throughout the book, and sometimes it's hard to tell who's who. The art serves it's purpose, and it's easier to follow than the art in Earth X, but I still wasn't too impressed. The art in the Fantastic Four, Spidey, and Cap chapters are vast improvements over the rest of the book.<br />   Longtime Marvel readers should be impressed.	2002-06-07
US	42627253	R2DDYIEKOGEUB5	0966349202	383861609	Collected Innocent Bystander, Volume One: Is This The Way To Fiction?	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Charming, Anecdotal Book.	Innocent Bystander is tough to pigeonhole....It's filled with humerous anecdotes from the life of the Writer/Artist, but it also has stories about various other subjects that interest him, such as a long discourse on his love of the Marx Brothers. (My personal favorite story....)<br />  The book is alternately funny and touching; I particularly liked the one-page story about a sign the Author saw once, &quot;A Deaf Child Walks This Road&quot;. The one drawback? I'm not a cat-lover, so the fact that one-fifth of the book is dedicated to the antics of Sassaman's cats, Stan &amp; Ollie, didn't really thrill me....<br />  Comis fans looking for something out-of-the-ordinary would do well to check this out.	2002-06-03
US	42627253	R3B2AK3WV2Y394	1560974001	273467742	Dirty Stories Vol. 2 (v. 2)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fun Stuff,! (Adults ONLY, Please!)	Dirty Stories 2 is just what the the title implies: Dirty Stories. ...The stories are mostly humorous, and some of them are really hilarious; Among the funniest are Johnny Ryan's \\"A Day in the Life of Long-Dong Silver\\" and Ivan Brunetti's \\"10,000 Mile Long Schlong\\". Tasteless? Yeah. Funny? Yeah. There is also a pair of truly tasteless \\"Maakies\\" stories from Tony \\"Sock Monkey\\" Millionaire, and a couple of dead-on parodies of old-school Marvel Comics. (The Spider-Man parody is hilarious!) If you're feeling adventurous, and you're not easily offended, step right up!	2002-06-03
US	42627253	R2IP817NE1LUDS	1563898225	859809091	Just Imagine Stan Lee's Batman	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Return To A Kinder, Gentler Era Of Comic-Books.	Comics legend Stan Lee teams with fellow icon Joe Kubert to give a new spin to legendary DC character Batman. (Lee was the co-creator of such Marvel Comics as Spider-Man, Thor, The Hulk, etc.) This is Stan's first attempt at doing DC characters, and the result is a nostalgic mixture of Modern DC and classic Marvel. <br />   Stan gives us Wayne Williams, an inner-city teen framed by gangster Handz Horgum. Wayne languishes in jail, building his body and mind, waiting for the day when he can have his revenge.<BR>Of course, he adopts the guise of a bat.....and in a tip of the hat to Spider-Man, Batman becomes a world-famous professional wrestler.<BR>    <BR>   The only place where the story really stumbles is when Stan tries to lay the groundwork for the rest of the series by introducing another villain. It doesn't really fit with the tone of the book.<br />   Fans of Stan Lee's classic Marvel work will find this first chapter of Just Imagine a trip down memory lane. (And how great is Kubert's art?)	2002-05-29
US	42627253	R15UKL2XR459H3	094315121X	894576521	Hectic Planet, Volume One : Dim Future (Bk. 1)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Substandard Stuff; For Die-Hard Dorkin Fans Only.	I'd read some of Evan Dorkin's Hectic Planet shorts in Dark Horse Presents a few years ago, and was impressed by the touching, funny, relationship-driven stories. So I decided to buy the 3 collected volumes of Hectic Planet. So far it's mostly a dud.....<br />  The first volume revolves around an uninteresting bunch of petty crooks called a \\"Pirate Corp$\\", as they fly around space stealing things and making enemies. (The first half of the book is a poor man's Star Wars...) Things start to look up in the second half, as the team gets stuck on a planet, and Dorkin starts to actually develop his characters. Still, I found nothing even remotely interesting about the characters and situations, and, to make matters worse, the book is VERY poorly bound; It almost completely fell apart in the hour and a half it took me to read it. <br />   I'm sure that the later volumes will improve; After all, Dorkin is one of the modern masters of comics. But maybe only Dorkin fanatics should pick this up.....Try Dork! or Milk & Cheese instead.	2002-05-23
US	42627253	R260PCWQUAQ9EU	1569715270	423955196	Akira, Vol. 5	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Preparations Begin For The Final Battle....	With the Psychic powerhouse Akira awakened, the mad Tetsuo becoming more and more powerful by the moment, and the World super-powers massing their fleets just outside of Japan, could things possibly get any worse for the citizens of the ruined Neo-Tokyo? Well.....yeah! Tetsuo is becoming SO powerful, his body is starting to mutate....in some pretty gross ways.<br />  On the flip side, Kaneda, presumed dead, returns, and he has some really great scenes with Kei. Chiyoko and The Colonel also get a chance to shine, and we get some insight into the mind of Lady Miyako. Otomo's art is still great, and the amout of detail he puts into each panel is staggering; It's almost criminal to read the story too fast. You don't want to risk missing ANY of his spectacular linework.<br /> Akira 5 will certainly have you awaiting the final chapter with great anticipation.	2002-05-20
US	42627253	R1E5LLZJ488K4K	1569715289	154634991	Akira, Vol. 6	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Non-Stop action!	Akira Volume 6 brings the story to a shattering conclusion, as all of the surviving characters converge to attempt to stop the mad Tetsuo. And what will they do with the Godlike child Akira..?<br />  The great thing about epics, in any medium, is the amount of time they have to develop their characters. I can't imagine the Akira movie being as satisfying as the books. (I'll see soon enough- I loved the books so much I ordered the Akira DVD.) Considering that the final chapter is 400+ pages of non-stop action, it's a good thing Otomo built his characters up heavily in the previous 5 chapters. The art is sensational, and the writing is top-notch; Otomo manages to deliver a satisfying (If somewhat head-scratching...) ending. Maybe the highest compliment I can give is that I was sorry to see it end.	2002-05-20
US	42627253	R6RB16VVZXXAL	1569715262	945294758	Akira, Vol. 4	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Otomo Throws His Readers A Curve-Ball......	At the end of Volume Three, Akira, reacting to the death of his friend at the hands of Nezu, once again leveled Tokyo. We last saw Akira and Tetsuo floating above the wreckage of the devastated city....<br />   Well, creator Katsuhiro Otoma has taken the status-quo, and turned it upside-down with Volume 4. Neo-Tokyo is now a wasteland, with warring factions of savage survivors roaming the streets.....and Akira and Tetsuo as their King and Prime Minister, respectively. Tetsuo is busy creating an army of psychics to strengthen his reign, Kaneda is apparently dead, Kei and Chiyoko are desperately trying to protect the surviving \\"Children\\" (Akira's fellow psychic powerhouses), and the outside world is trying to figure out just what in the hell is happening in Tokyo.<br />  The book is a non-stop thrill-ride, and Otomo's art continues to be breathtaking. I could have done without the almost continuous \\"Kei is about to get raped\\" motif (The series takes a MAJOR \\"Mature Readers ONLY\\" turn as of this volume), but aside from that minor quibble, Akira continues to be well worth the money. Highly recommended!	2002-05-19
US	42627253	R3N18SC1TZDE98	1569715254	423955196	Akira, Vol. 3	Books	3	6	7	N	N	The Middle-Chapter Blues	Volume Three of Katsuhiro Otomo's epic sci-fi saga finds the newly awakened Akira being pursued by Kei and Kaneda, the Army, Nazu's militant faction, weirdly-powered flying children, strange Government robots, etc.<br />  After being freed from his cryogenic sleep by Tetsuo in the last volume, Akira is still groggy, and so we really don't get any insight into his character, and he doesn't become an active participant in the story until the very end of the book. What an ending, though! After this, the series spins off into totally unexpected territory. This volume seemed like mostly filler, though. The story is basically just a lot of people playing &quot;keepaway&quot; with Akira; He's stolen from Kaneda by the flying kids, Nazu snatches him from the flying kids, etc. Like most long stories (In any medium), the middle lags.<br />  Otomo's art continues to be mind-boggling. The amount of detail in every panel is incredible, and you could just linger over the art all day. Even at three stars, Akira 3 is better than most other comics....	2002-05-16
US	42627253	R30U0Z2LP5GES1	1569714991	423955196	Akira, Vol. 2	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Epic Continues.....	Katsuhiro Otoma's epic of post World-War III Japan continues in this full-throttle, non-stop-action chapter. <br />  Akira Book 2 starts out with Kei and Kaneda in the clutches of the mysterious Colonel, while Tetsuo continues to test the limits (If there are any...)of his newly discovered powers. Meanwhile, under the crater at ground zero, Akira begins to awaken...<br />   Akira is the Comic-Book equivalent of an epic action movie. The art is clear and crisp, and the amout of detail in every panel is staggering. I've never been a fan of &quot;Manga&quot; (Japanese Comics), but the work of Katsuhiro Otomo (The Akira books, and the amazing Domu) are winning me over. The opening of the book has an in-depth recap for new readers, and the first few pages are in color.The black-and-white art really looks great, and the book is a great value at 288 pages. Try it...you'll be hooked!	2002-05-13
US	42627253	R39D5CX7IYC0LE	1582402329	713000396	Powers: Roleplay	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Superhero Story From A Homicide Cop's P.O.V.	Detective Christian Walker and his new partner, Detective Deena Pilgrim work \\"Powers\\" cases; That is, homicides dealing with Super-Powered victims and/or perpetrators.<br />   Their new case is the slaying of a group of College students. All were found wearing Super-Hero costumes. They were part of a campus Role-Playing game that involved roaming the city dressed as Super-Powered individuals (which is illegal in itself, as non-licensed costume wearers are subject to jail time..), and were all \\"On Patrol\\" when murdered. All clues point to a long-vanished Mob Enforcer called \\"The Pulp\\"....But why come back after all these years....and why kill defenseless kids? This is the mystery at the core of Role Play, and the answer is a shocker.<br />   Brian Michael Bendis' writing is, as usual, top-notch; I do wish someone would carefully proof-read his stuff, though...There are numerous spelling errors, and he can't seem to differentiate between \\"Yours\\" and Your's\\". Stuff like that makes a book look amateurish, no matter how good everything else might be.<br />  Artist Mike Avon Oeming has a deceptive style; It looks cartoony at first glance, but soon draws you in with an amazing depth of facial expressions and true talent for making \\"Talking Head\\" sequences come alive. <br />  Powers: Role Play is totally self-contained, and no prior knowledge of the series or characters is necessary. Fans of Superheroes and/or Crime fiction will have a blast.	2002-05-12
US	42627253	R17ZR3ZSKRIVG7	0785108289	868203344	Essential Marvel Team-Up, Vol. 1 (Marvel Essentials)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A Real Trip Down Memory Lane!	Having grown up reading the Marvel Comics of the 70's, I purchased this book more for the nostalgia value than anything else. On that level it's a great book; I remember reading a lot of these stories in the old Treasury Edition reprint format, and they brought back a lot of great memories.<BR>   <BR>   The stories themselves are a mixed bag, ranging from awful (The Hawkeye/Quasimodo story) to great fun (The 2-part Stegron the Dinosaur Man story, which culminates with Dinosaurs overrunning Times Square). The writing is not up to the standards of 2002, but the stories are fun, and the art, by comic legends such as Sal Buscema, Gil Kane, Ross Andru, etc., is great. And you can't beat the value of the \\"Essential\\" books- Over 500 pages of classic Marvel Comics for [the price]. The production values seem better than in previous Essential books, and the new cover design is a HUGE step up from the one that has \\"graced\\" previous volumes. And with the New Spider-Man movie, this would be a GREAT starting point for potential comic fans.	2002-05-06
US	42627253	R3TYTVY5Y0DS2H	0804114498	200347372	American Tabloid	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Dig It. A Razor-Sharp Thriller. America Loses Its Innocence	James Ellroy's taut, clipped phrases and lightning fast, head-spinning style is an acquired taste. When I first picked up L.A. Confidential, I hated it. His style just totally turned me off. After a few chapters, I was totally hooked. American Tabloid is more of the same...<br />  The book follows three men, Pete Bondurant, Ward Littell, and Kemper Boyd, through a maze of corruption, murder, and narcotics, eventually leading to the order to execute the President of the United States. I've always been interested in the conspiracy theories that surround the assassination of J.F.K., but I've never seen the Cuban/C.I.A./Mafia theory spelled out so thoroughly. The best way to describe reading this book is that it's like looking in a dirty toilet that's being flushed....All this filth is floating at the surface, and as it inexorably gets sucked down, it all mingles together before going down the pipes. The various fictional characters mingle with real-life figures such as J. Edgar Hoover, Jimmy Hoffa, L.B.J., John, Robert, and Joe Kennedy, and Fidel Castro, among others. Everyone in this book is crooked, and it's VERY entertaining watching Ellroy juggle dozens of different subplots and characters, heading them all in totally unexpected directions. A must-read for fans of hard-boiled crime epics.<br />  My only beef is the same one I had with L.A. Confidential: L.A. Confidential was the third book in a four book series, and American Tabloid is the follow-up to those books. I still haven't read the other L.A. books, so there were times in Tabloid that I felt that I had missed someting. There is no mention anywhere about the connection to the other books, which makes it hard for a new reader to just jump in.	2002-04-30
US	42627253	R2KE58Y9ADFYXP	1561632740	918841450	The Mystery of Mary Rogers (A Treasury of Victorian Murder)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Geary Is Amazing!	With The Mystery of Mary Rogers, Writer/Illustrator Rick Geary continues his \\"Treasury of Victorian Murder\\" Graphic Novel series, this time exploring the facts in the death of Mary Rogers, a well-known \\"Segar (Cigar) Girl\\" (She worked in a large Manhattan Tobacco Shop). <br />  Geary's books are laid out incredibly well; most \\"Mainstream\\" non-fiction writers could learn a thing or two from him. He presents THE FACTS in the case, and since the murder was nevr really solved (At least officially...), he avoids any supposition; At the end of the book, he gives the reader a few scenarios that MAY have happened, never presenting any one of them as the actual solution. Geary's writing style is very informative, and his illustrations have a depth and resonance that belie their \\"Cartoony\\" look. <br />   Overall, this book is a pleasure to read! The hardcover is a very attractive package at a low price, the text is informative and illuminating, and the artwork is superb. In a perfect world, Geary would be a fixture on the best-seller lists.	2002-04-21
US	42627253	R1E786ZENCYVTS	0385327285	699233948	Akiko in the Castle of Alia Rellapor	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Fun For All Ages!	The quest for the kidnapped Prince Froptoppit concludes in this volume. The art and writing by Mark Crilley is superb; Very funny moments effortlessly mix with great suspense, The mysterious Throck's secret is revealed, and there's a GREAT twist involving Alia Rellapor. Crilley is improving as a storyteller with each successive book. This one just zooms along! <br /> Fans of the Akiko comics will love this book, and it would make a great read for young fans of Harry Potter.	2002-04-13
US	42627253	RD6YH91AGDBAM	0385327277	702561529	Akiko and the Great Wall of Trudd	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Quest Nears It's Conclusion.....	Continuing their quest to free the captured Prince Froptoppit, Akiko, Gax, Poog, Mr. Beeba, and Spuckler must get past one final obstacle: The huge Wall of Trudd. And waiting on the other side- Alia Rellapor and the mysterious Throck.....<br />   Writer/Illustrator Mark Crilley continues to improve with each book, and this is the best one yet. The characters are great fun, and the situations they encounter are exciting, but nothing that would scare a younger reader. This would make a great bedtime story....<br />   Make sure to check out the Akiko comics from Sirius Comics!	2002-04-11
US	42627253	R3364QGD5CUCZC	0385327269	95116013	Akiko in the Sprubly Islands	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Quest Continues.....	Akiko, Mr. Beeba, Poog, Spuckler, and Gax return for another chapter in their quest to rescue the kidnapped Prince Froptoppit from the clutches of Alia Rellapor.<br />  With characters and situations based on his long-running Comic Book Akiko, Writer/Illustrator Mark Crilley does a good job of presenting the reader with the information they may have missed by not reading the first book, but also manages to keep the plot moving forward. He also seems to be getting his children's-book writing chops built up, as I thought this book had a much better style than the first one. The art is great too; simple, yet detailed. The characters are fun, and the story is pretty gentle, so younger readers shouldn't find anything too scary.	2002-04-09
US	42627253	RPFMJN2BIZ4II	1563897210	751224073	Flash, The: Race Against Time (Flash (DC Comics))	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Another Great Flash Story By Mark Waid!	In the wake of his epic battle with Savitar, the mad god of speed (In the Dead Heat storyline), The Flash finds himself propelled into the future by The Speed Force. Landing in the 64th Century, he tries to return home by using the love of his Girlfriend Linda as a beacon. The only problem is that Linda has been told (By future Flash John Fox) that Wally is dead. Fox is in love with Linda, and hopes to usurp Wally's role as the 20th Century Flash.<br />  At their core, most of Mark Waid's Flash stories follow a bacic predictable plotline: Flash battles bad guy, gets lost in the Speed Force, comes back home with a weird new Power/Costume/Identity. But they're well told stories, and this one is no different. The relationship between Wally and Linda is totally believable, and in my mind is one of Comics great love stories. Race Against Time is a thoroughly enjoyable adventure, with great art and writing. Check it out.	2002-04-08
US	42627253	R1TCBO40YRTOX7	0385327242	990444307	Akiko on the Planet Smoo	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fun For Kids of All Ages.	I'm a recent convert to the Akiko comic book, and I decided to check out the children's books, as well. I found this book to be every bit as entertaining as the comic, and I think it would be a great way to get younger children interested in reading. The writing and art is great fun, and the book is a very attractive package for a relatively low price. Great for children, or adults who never grew up, like me.	2002-04-07
US	42627253	R1D5NQMPSY2EKX	0671723227	892474008	Wiseguy	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Scary/Funny Look Behind The Scenes Of Organized Crime.	Henry Hill was immersed in Mob life since the age of 11. Starting out as an errand boy for Mobster Paul Vario, and working his way up to top-level soldier, Author Nicholas Pileggi helps Hill tell his story, and what a story it is! Everybody knows the big things the Mafia does, but Hill clues the reader in on an amazing fact: No crime is too small for these guys. At one point, they buy skinny Christmas trees, have Henry drill holes in them, stuff dead branches into the holes, and sell them to people. The trees look good for a day or two, then fall apart. They are truly crooked in EVERY aspect of their lives. <br />   The bottom starts to fall out of Henry's \\"Good Life\\" when his crew pulls off the Six-Million Dollar Lufthansa heist, the biggest cash robbery in U.S. History. Mastermind Jimmy Burke, Henry's best friend/partner-in-crime becomes greedy and paranoid, and starts \\"Whacking out\\" everyone who knows ANYTHING about the heist. When Henry is picked up on a drug charge (Boss Paul Vario had strictly forbidden Narcotic trafficking), Hill finds himself in the Mob's bad graces, and since he knows Jimmy pulled the Lufthansa heist, he may just end up Jimmy's next victim....and along comes the F.B.I. with an offer Henry literally can't refuse.....<br />  Wiseguy was made into an amazing movie by Director Martin Scorsese (Goodfellas), and I was surprised to find that the book is even more engrossing than the movie it inspired. I literally hated to put the book down. The day-to-day business of the Mob is utterly engrossing, and Hill piles the details on so thick, you actually feel like you know him, and Pileggi does a great job of reporting what happened, but never glamorizing Hill, or making us forget who he is, or what he did.<br />  An amazing book. Just amazing.	2002-04-05
US	42627253	R3LSV94509QKBY	0871356457	985000211	002: Spider-Man Vs. Wolverine/No 1	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A sleeper that made for a big change in the Spidey-Books	Writer James Owsley, now known for writing books such as Quantum & Woody and Black Panther under the name Christopher Priest, and frequent collaborator Mark Bright present a tale of intrigue and espionage that sees Wolverine and Spider-Man in Germany, trying to stop a rogue spy on a murderous mission.<br /><br />  The story has a few neat twists, and the art is well-done, but it's most memorable for the death of a long-time supporting character, who, as it later turned out, was the Villain known as The Hobgoblin.<br />  A well-told story that's worth a look.	2002-04-04
US	42627253	R2HHK2Z5EOXBKO	0785108343	266774928	Magneto: Rogue Nation (X-Men)	Books	1	6	17	N	N	OH, THE PAIN!!! THE PAIN........	I bought this book while caught up in a wave of excitement over the current Grant Morrison run on X-Men. I mean, how bad could it be, right?<br /> Oh boy....<br /> This is possibly the worst Comic Book I have ever had the displeasure of reading. Awful. Just AWFUL. I'd go lower than 1 star if I could.......<br />  The only redeeming quality is Alan Davis' art, which takes up less than a third of the book. Other than that.....The story slavishly adheres to the Chris Claremont formula, keeping the X-Books in their own incomprehensible corner of the Marvel Universe. Genosha. The Acolytes. Villains with such awe-inspiring names as Fabian Cortez and Mellencamp. (MELLENCAMP!!! WHO THE HELL THOUGHT OF NAMING A VILLAIN THAT????) Page after page of so many expository word-balloons that the art is almost buried. The first chapter shows the X-Men rescuing people from a burning Hospital, complete with HUGE BLOCKS OF TEXT that just reiterate what we're seeing in the pictures. Isn't that the POINT of the art- To move the story along WITHOUT the writer having to spell out EVERY LAST THING? Wolverine cuts through a wall, while we read pages of dialogue about how Wolverine is cutting through a wall.....Gee, I never would have figured it out on my own! <br />  I can honestly say that I suffered through this horrible book without ONCE being interested in what was going on. Character development is nil, readers unfamiliar with the characters will be totally lost, the writing is awful, the art is mostly poor-man's Todd Mcfarlane (Which ain't saying much!)......If you're looking for 200 pages of people talking while they fight pointless battle after pointless battle, you've come to the right place. Anyone with even a modicum of intelligence should steer clear.<br />  And what brain at Marvel decided this poop needed to be collected?...	2002-04-03
US	42627253	R1CQ5J44FDFS5P	0786884142	713265752	A Monk Swimming A Memoir	Books	4	23	27	N	N	An Interesting Book About A Stereotypical Drunken Irishman.	Being half Irish myself, I'm pretty sick of seeing the Irish portrayed as drunken louts. So imagine how surprised I was to find that the loveable little Malachy I read about in Angela's Ashes had come to America as a teen and become a drunken troublemaker.<br />  The book lovingly recounts McCourt's many (VERY MANY) drunken rampages through New York, Ireland, Calcutta (Smuggling Gold), and London, drinking, whoring, and making trouble in stereotypical fashion. I didn't take long for me to start hating Malachy; Watching him float through life, mooching off of others, never doing an honest day's work, drinking up other people's money...it was sickening. But compelling. It was tough to see him repeating the mistakes of his Father.<br />  But....he does tell a good story, and he had an unusual life, that's for sure. There are some funny moments, and overall, despite my distaste for him as a person, the book is worth reading for people who are interested in the McCourt Family.	2002-03-30
US	42627253	R3OQ4CI1EWTP8	0684872153	698161422	Angela's Ashes:  A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amazing. Absolutely Amazing.	Growing up in an Irish family, I always knew that no one could tell a story like an Irishman. So reading Frank McCourt's moving tale of his childhood in the slums of Limerick, Ireland, was like a flashback to my childhood, to those days of listening to Aunts &amp; Uncles and my Grandmother telling stories about their younger days; Specificlly the way they could tell the most horrible story, and still manage to get a belly laugh out of it, while also bringing a tear to your eye. I can't tell you how many times I laughed out loud reading this book, only to find myself crying over the very next paragraph. As Frank himself says on the first page, it's a miracle he (And his Brothers) managed to survive childhood. <br />  This book truly deserves all the accolades that have been heaped upon it. I finished it last night, and I'm already reading Malachy McCourt's book, A Monk Swimming, and I can't wait to start the sequel to Ashes, 'Tis. This is a remarkable book, one of the best I've ever read.	2002-03-23
US	42627253	R2ZT42K4HJDHHX	006018471X	530183235	Abandon Ship!: The Saga of the U.S.S. Indianapolis, the Navy's Greatest Sea Disaster	Books	4	1	2	N	N	If It Wasn't True, No One Would Believe It.....	Abandon Ship! tells the story of the doomed ship U.S.S. Indianapolis, sunk by a Japanese Submarine on it's way home after delivering \\"Little Boy\\", the bomb that would destroy Hiroshima and end WWII.<br />   I have been fascinated by the story of the Indianapolis ever since I was a child, and heard about it in the movie \\"Jaws\\". Abandon Ship! was originally published in 1958, and this new edition has a new Introduction and Afterword by acclaimed Author Peter Maas, which brings the reader up-to-date on what has happened with the Indianapolis Case in the intervening Years. And a LOT has happened...<br />    After leaving \\"Little Boy\\" on the Isle of Tinian, Indianapolis was sunk by a Japanese Sub, leaving over 800 men in the water for over Four Days. (Over 1,200 men were on the Ship; 800 made it into the Water, slightly over 300 survived drowning, sharks, and exposure.) The book details the catastrophic chain of events that could allow an event of this magnitude to happen, including a foolish command that Combat Vessels not be reported as docking (So the Enemy doesn't know where the Combatant Vessels are...). This inevitably leads to not reporting the Indianapolis as NOT docking. The men are found completely by accident; after almost FIVE DAYS, no one had missed them yet.<br />   Author Richard Newcomb's style posed serious problems for me; after the first 75 pages I felt as if I were reading a Navy-only book. He packs the pages with Navy Jargon, never telling the reader what it means. I don't even know the Bow from the Stern, so I was lost a lot of the time, and since the whole point of the book, to me, was the 4+ Days spent in the water, I was  dismayed to find Newcomb only devote around 30 pages to that portion of their ordeal. He also SERIOUSLY downplays the Shark Attacks; a peek at the Glossary will show that Shark attacks only merit ONE MENTION.....<br />   The book quickly becomes riveting reading when The Navy decides that, since SOMONE must be held accountable,they'll Court-Martial the Captain of The Indianapolis. The railroading of Captain Mcvay is shameful, and Maas' Afterword details the efforts of an 11-Year old (!) boy, as a result of his School History project, to clear Mcvay's name. <br />   The saga of The Indianapolis is truly one of the darkest moments in Military History, and this book, while not perfect, is a must-read.	2002-03-17
US	42627253	R2ST5OIWPO2LL1	1854876945	900560038	Strange but True: Mysterious and Bizarre People, Who Were They and Where Did They Go	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strange, Yeah....But How True?	Strange But True is a potpourri of bite-sized stories about (Surprise!) strange people and/or events. I am a &quot;Strangeness Buff&quot;, and even though I have a TON of books that run along the same lines, there was a lot here that was new to me, and a lot that makes you want to read more; The chapters on Springheel Jack and The Tunguska Alien were especially interesting. Slemen's writing is compelling, and his style makes for fun reading. <br />  The drawback was that the book has no bibliography, so it's impossible to do any further digging for information, and there's no telling where Slemen got his facts from. As such, that always left me feeling a tad doubtful about some of the more unbelieveable stuff.....It is a fun book, though, and fans of the Unexplained will have a good time.	2002-03-08
US	42627253	RYW1PV0O0HDWG	1563897261	910883538	Batman: Evolution (No Man's Land)	Books	1	19	29	N	N	Memorable only for the Two-Face chapter	Novelist Greg Rucka came aboard the Batman books during the groundbreaking \\"No Man's Land\\" epic. I loved that story arc, but since then, I've found Rucka's work, both on Batman and other comics (Whiteout, Batman/Huntress, etc.) to be either hit or miss. He is capable of great work, as the Two-Face story in this book shows, but when he's off his game.....oh boy.<br />   The biggest problem here is Editorial; When DC rebooted Detective Comics, post NML, they made a few awful decisions- Artist Shawn Martinbrough's work is boring and nondescript, and it's made even worse by the \\"Limited\\" Colors used. The book looks like someone spilled a mug of Hot Chocolate on it. Just awful. Why bother to color it at all? It would be much more palatable in black and white. <br />  An Editor should also have stepped in to stop Rucka from using a ridiculous designer drug as his plot device; The drug doesn't just addict, it turns it's users into animals. Literally. Snakes, Wolves, etc. After years spent trying to keep The Batman books (Semi)believable, the sight of addicts turning into snakes had me howling with laughter. Is this the best the great Ra's Al Ghul could do? Pathetic! Ra's Al Ghul is not my favorite Batman villain, but I think that's why he never used to turn up much: It took a really talented writer to do something with him. Rucka was not that writer. After all of that buildup, the story doesn't end, so much as stop. It's almost like Rucka ran out of writing paper....<br />  With the great array of Batman books out there, you can't really be in bad enough shape that you'll want to waste your cash on this....	2002-03-05
US	42627253	R28P0N54DLSKYP	1582402086	964029596	Bluntman & Chronic	Books	4	7	9	N	N	The Hemp Knight Returns!!	Finally, the LONG delayed Bluntman & Chronic Graphic Novel!! Was the wait worth it? Oh yea!!<BR>  <BR>   Kevin Smith and Mike Avon Oeming (Under the guise of Banky Edwards and Holden McNeil) deliver big laughs as they tell the origin of the \\"Queer Duo\\" and their arch-enemies, whose group name is hilariously unprintable (At least here....). Comic book lovers will especially enjoy the loving jabs Smith takes at the origins of Green Lantern, Spider-Man, Captain America, and Daredevil, among others. The book also includes the hard-to-find story from Oni Double Feature, in color for the first time. All in all, a great book, loaded with laughs. (And MUCH more obscene than you could ever imagine!!)	2002-03-04
US	42627253	R2RX7ZZANPTIQG	0425101452	21671792	Phantoms	Books	2	36	49	N	N	Would Have Made A Great Short Story	I bought Phantoms years ago (When the movie came out), and I've just gotten around to reading it now...I'm glad I waited.<br />  In the years since Phantoms was released theatrically, I've read a few Koontz books, and haven't really cared for any of them. I thought Phantoms would be more my cup of tea, but......<br />  Phantoms tells the story of Snowfield, California, a small ski town that becomes a small GHOST town overnight. Every single man, woman, & child either vanishes without a trace, or dies mysteriously. The town Doctor and her younger sister were away when the disaster struck, and now they find themselves, along with the local Sheriff and his men, trapped by the evil creature behind the slaughter.<br />  All of this sounds pretty good. The problem is that Koontz mercilessly pads the story; It takes almost 300 pages to get to the Monster. After, say....200 pages of people wandering around from house to house finding dead bodies, I had already gotten the point. The stereotypical \\"Monster Expert\\" is by far the most interesting character, and he doesn't get into the town until around page 350. And after slogging through all of that, Koontz has the nerve to pop a new sub-plot into the book with a mere 20 pages left!! Enough, already! Some of the dialogue the characters spout is just ridiculous...Try saying some of it out loud for a good laugh.<br />  On the plus side, the dialogue between \\"The Ancient Enemy\\" and the scientists, conducted via computer, was absolutely chilling; very scary stuff...too bad it's only 10 pages out of 428....Phantoms would have made a GREAT novella or short story; as it is, it seems like Koontz gets paid by the word. And Dean- could you get a new photo taken???	2002-02-27
US	42627253	R3G2RBB54Y543L	1891830023	636712070	Hey, Mister: Afterschool Special	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good Twisted Fun	A guy named Mister. A woman who is called Aunt Mary, even though she doesn't seem to be anyone's Aunt. A nameless grotesque. Something that seems to be a bald, one-toothed infant, but is apparently a grown man, named Young Tim. This is the primary cast of Pete Sickman-Garner's \\"Hey, Mister\\" comic. The \\"Afterschool Special\\" is comprised of a bunch of seemingly unrelated short stories- the characters are pretty much the same in each story, but their situations vary....In one strip, Mister & Young Tim live together, in another, they don't even know each other.<br />   I can't recall laughing so hard in quite some time. Sickman-Garner assaults the reader with more bizarre situations and characters than you can shake a stick at:<br />       A sexually abused Dog....<BR>             <BR>       Young Tim forced to impersonate a Chicken......<br />       A \\"Hideous Mutant\\" who is unwittingly granted 3 wishes...<br />       A lucid dreamer who sleeps for 50 years while dreaming of<BR>         playing strip poker with The Pope...<br />       A million reasons why you should NOT start your own<BR>         business....<br />  Sickman-Garner delivers a great package, packed with laughs, at a low price. A great buy for anyone who has ever wished someone would have \\"A lousy life...\\"	2002-02-26
US	42627253	R219P22YTZRUOZ	1563897520	895082929	I, Paparazzi	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Take A Picture of Your $30.00, Then Kiss It Goodbye....	After reading (and loving) Pat McGreal's previous Vertigo/DC work- Chiaroscuro: The lives of Leonardo Da Vinci & Veils, I picked up I, Paparazzi with great expectations. Ummm.....can I have my money back, DC...?<br />  I, Paparazzi centers on Jake \\"Monster\\" McGowran, a celebrity photographer, who runs afoul of a mean-tempered Sean Penn-type celeb, and stumbles into a bizarre conspiracy; actually, this one is THE conspiracy, the one from which all of the other ones were born,<br />  The problems with the book were few, but large:<br />   1)- The \\"Scooby-Doo\\" ending renders the whole story pointless. Why travel down such a bizarre road if it's only gonna end in Normalville? If you're going to deliver that kind of ending, it would have been better if the whole story had stayed believable.<BR>     and.....<BR>   <BR>    2)- To this long-time Comic reader, the \\"Fumetti\\" style (using photographs instead of drawings) will always seem cheap-looking. I have no doubt that the book was expensive to produce, and very time-consuming, and the photography and digital imaging WERE impressive, but no matter how much of this type of work I see, it still doesn't click for me.<br />  I would advise people with $30.00 burning a hole in their pocket to try McGreal's Veils instead.	2002-02-26
US	42627253	R1A0NPH1YSD4GX	1891830066	132394806	The Hey Mister Celebrity Roast	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mister, Aunt Mary, & Young Tim return!	With Celebrity Roast, the follow-up to the Hey, Mister Afterschool Special, Creator Pete Sickman-Garner gets a  little more introspective, while still managing to deliver big laughs.<br />  Celebrity Roast gives us the Death of Sting (Yes, THAT Sting...); The first meeting of Mister & Young Tim, wherein Mister rescues Young Tim from a couple of WEIRD guys who think Young Tim is a dog; Mister's first meeting with Aunt Mary, and Mister falling in lust.....with Young Tim...(\\"He's so....pink...\\").<br />  Despite the big laughs, Sickman-Garner also manages to be touching- try NOT to be moved by the end of \\"Mister meets Aunt Mary\\"...I dare ya!!!<br />  Note to Pete Sickman-Garner: More, please! (And FAST!!! I miss Young Tim already!)	2002-02-26
US	42627253	R3I4R6IQTORTM9	1569716625	688025262	Grendel: Devil's Legacy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hell Hath No Fury.....	With \\"Grendel: Devil By The Deed\\", Creator Matt Wagner introduced readers to Criminal Genius Hunter Rose, and his alter-ego, Grendel, a masked fiend who holds New York City in his gloved hand.<br />  Devil's Legacy introduces us to the newest recipient of the mask & fork: Christine Spar, adopted granddaughter of Hunter Rose. Chris has just written a best-selling book about Hunter/Grendel; Now she finds herself thrust into a parents worst nightmare....her son Anson is missing, and Christine has reason to believe the responsible party is Tujiro, a mysterious, seductive Kabuki artist. When Christine discovers the true nature of Tujiro, she also discovers an inner strength she never knew she had. She takes up the weapons of Grendel, and seeks her revenge. <br />   Unfortunately, she attracts some attention from the wrong people, in particular Hunter Rose's old nemesis, Argent the Wolf....<br />   Wagner divides the book neatly into two sections: Christine's battle with Tujiro, where she discovers her courage and strength, and her confrontation with Argent and his minions, where she discovers her rage, and puts it to good use. Wagner gets great marks for introducing (in the course of the entire Grendel canon) the concept of Super-Hero as a virus, for lack of a better description; The identity of Grendel hops from person to person, almost as if these people don't really become Grendel; Grendel becomes THEM. He has a knack for creating realistic characters; Christine's journey is fraught with dangers, and I found myself really worrying about her, hoping that she wouldn't really go down that path. Great writing, Matt! The art by The Pander Bros......well, I can't really call it art- It's more like beautiful architecture. The eye just wants to linger over the exquisite layouts. There's a double-page layout towards the end (involving severed fingers...) that is among the most perfect examples of comic-book art I've ever seen. The battle between Grendel & Argent is stunning.....<br />  If you enjoy this book, pick up Wagner's Batman/Grendel, among the best Batman stories EVER.	2002-02-22
US	42627253	R7KZVGFXFND8X	0767904133	8015663	Close to Shore: A True Story of Terror in An Age of Innocence	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I'll Never Go Near The Water Again.......	I've been entranced by sharks ever since I saw Jaws on TV when I was 8. I haven't been in the ocean since then. Apparently staying out of the ocean isn't enough....<br />   Close To Shore tells the story of a Great White shark that held the Jersey shore in a grip of terror in the Summer of 1916. After claiming 2 victims from the Ocean, the shark made a change of venue, moving from the ocean to Matawan Creek. <br />  I thought that the book started out kind of slow; Capuzzo richly chronicles every aspect of life in the Summer of 1916- It's a fabulous history lesson, but I was eager for the Shark to take center stage. Once that happens, the book becomes impossible to put down. As the bibliograpy section in the back shows, Capuzzo REALLY did his homework- the shark and her victims are vividly portrayed, and the attacks are horrific. (One of the victims is savaged while trying to recover the body of a young boy that the shark had been feeding on.) The heroism that some of the real-life \\"characters\\" exhibit is amazing, and Capuzzo does them full justice by portraying them as PEOPLE, not just lunch<br />  Close To Shore is an amazing read, and an amazing history lesson.	2002-02-19
US	42627253	R3OAAGNUNV0JCH	0151731527	239209793	Possessing the Secret of Joy	Books	5	35	36	N	N	The Secret Shame of Female Circumcision	Possessing The Secret of Joy is a semi-sequel to The Color Purple, but you can jump right into \\"Possessing\\" without ever having read \\"Purple\\".<br />  Here, Alice Walker tells the story of Tashi, a minor character from The Color Purple. Transplanted from her native Africa, she is tormented by supressed memories from her childhood; memories that are starting to wear away her already tenuous sanity.<br />  Tashi is not only plagued by memories of the death of her sister, she is also suffering psychologically from the circumcision she subjected herself to before her departure from Africa. She undergoes some extensive therapy, conducted in part by Jung himself, to try to heal her mental scars. <br />   I was familiar with the concept of ritual female circumcision from various newspaper articles and news programs, but I had no idea of the extent of the mutilation these young girls are subjected to. Walker handles the subject well; she describes the procedure, and the effect, both physical and mental, on the girl, all the while taking great care to present every side of the story. Her presentation of the history of this procedure is gripping, as are her theories about how it may have started. While much of the book is relentlessly grim, it is, nonetheless, a fabulously rewarding read.	2002-02-14
US	42627253	RMWRLBALLI8V3	1569716110	976324589	Domu	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Sci-Fi/Horror Thriller That Would Make A Killer Movie!	I started reading Dark Horse's Akira reprints a few months back, and having enjoyed the first volume, figured I'd take a chance (I generally don't like Manga very much...) and order Domu, seeing as how it was also created by Katsuhiro Otomo....<br />   Well, I managed to get all of 20 pages in before I was totally spellbound. Domu tells the story of an apartment block in Japan that has been plagued by suicides and disappearances. A senile old man, with tremendous psychic powers, has been using the buildings inhabitants as his own personal playthings. (One particularly chilling moment has the oldy about to drop an infant to his death, and thinking \\"Just like a ripe tomato...\\") <br />  His plans are disrupted, however, by a new arrival: A young girl with the same psychic gift. And soon, the apartment block is turned into their own personal battlefield, as the little girl seeks to ensure no one else falls victim to his depredations.<br />   Otomo's story and art compliment each other perfectly- I had to read the book twice in one sitting: Once to actually READ it, another to savor the magnificent hyper-detailed artwork. The plot is like something out of a Stephen King story, and a GREAT Stephen King story at that. This would make an amazing movie. But could the movie possibly be any more heart-pounding than the book...? Naaah!	2002-02-11
US	42627253	RC2WRV88NAW5I	1580631606	855950234	The Stephen King Universe	Books	3	5	7	N	N	King's "Constant Readers" Won't Find Anything New	The Stephen King Universe is a pretty decent attempt to consolidate all of the best-selling Author's stories and characters into one cohesive \\"Universe\\", I.E. all of his stories and characters exist in the same reality, and the various struggles between good and evil that King relates are all skirmishes leading to the eventual war that will be fought for control of the mythical Dark Tower. (Comic Book fans are familiar with this type of scheme- The Marvel Universe, The DC Universe, et al....)Sounds good.<br />  There are a few problems, though: 1)- Die-Hard King fans, like me, already know pretty much everything they have to say in this book. That's ok, though. Sometimes it's nice just to see that someone else agrees with you. 2)- There are some glaring errors, most of which other reviewers have spoken about, so I won't. (Well....just one! It drove me NUTS that they say on one page that Mike Hanlon, from IT, lives in Hemingford Home, Nebraska. A few pages later he lives in Derry. Come on, guys...Where's the Editor? There are a LOT of little things like that.) 3)- Towards the end of the book, the Authors seem to just lose interest in tying all King's work together, and just start summarizing stories. The Richard Bachman chapter especially suffered from this....<br />  King Fans will probably find The Stephen King Universe a pleasant way to spend a few hours, kind of like a trip down memory lane. Everyone else should probably just go right to the source, and pick up one of Mr. King's books. Ain't nothing like the real thing.....	2002-02-09
US	42627253	RHG6CEU71AYBX	1563898462	925887299	The Remarkable Worlds of Phineas B. Fuddle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Monty Python-esque Adventure Through Time	Professor Phineas B. Fuddle has a simple enough idea: Introduce modern technology to past civilizations, and the present will be retroactively upgraded. So the loopy Prof. builds a time machine, and heads back into history, to make the World a better place....<br />  BUT...instead of making a modern-day utopia, he creates a chaotic Hell-on-Earth; He's messed with the past so much, that the present has become a war-zone where anarchy reigns. Plus, at Midnight tonight, it'll all be moot: the time-stream will collapse due to the stress of the changes Fuddle has made. Two men, one of them Fuddle's Nephew, must follow his trail through the time-stream, and bring Fuddle back to the present (London, 1902) before midnight....they are Humanity's only hope....<br />  I thought the book started slow, but by the end I was really into it. There are some parts that are just laugh-out-loud funny...I especially enjoyed Suliman, the intelligent Mandrill.<br />  One of the big mysteries concerning the book is this: Boaz Yakin is a fairly well-known name among movie-lovers. (He Directed, among others, Remember The Titans...)Why didn't DC Comics give the book some publicity touting Yakin's Hollywood background? This is the kind of thing that could potentially bring new readers into the field....A big blunder, in my book....<br />  On the art front, Erez Yakin provides some REALLY detailed work. Just check out some of the double-page spreads, particularly the part where Angus &amp; McKee arrive in &quot;Hell&quot;....I don't know why I've never seen his art before, but I hope he decides to do some more comics. While not as flashy as some &quot;Flavor of the Month&quot; Artists, he delivers some first-rate STORYTELLING; his art and page layout is innovative, yet easy to follow. I hope the Yakin brothers decide to do some more comic work together...maybe even Fuddle II...?	2002-02-08
US	42627253	R31DI0QUW3BL7H	1569715025	939901270	Lone Wolf and Cub, Vol. 1: Assassin's Road	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Worth A Try, Even For Non-Manga Fans.....	I've never liked Manga, but the hype got to me....<br />  I remember the buzz from when First Comics was publishing Lone Wolf and Cub in the 80's, and the Dark Horse reprints, at $10 for 300+ pages was too tempting to pass up.<br />  First of all, the book IS really small, but it's such an attractive package that it really didn't bother me; I think you're getting great value for your money. At first I was put off by the fact that I had to keep flipping back-and-forth to the glossary, but I got used to it...I thought some of the stories were a little hard-to-follow, though. Too many Japanese names and titles, they had my head swimming! <br />  But at it's core, the story of a Father and his Infant Son on the road as hired assassins is riveting. (I can't really accept that Daigoro, the baby, is three years old...he seems more like one year old to me...) The final chapter, where the backstory of the duo is revealed, is heartbreakingly well-done. The art is not really my cup-of-tea, but it gets the job done. And how often do you see two men fight to the death because a baby urinated on someone's face...?<br />  Although a little murky, I will stick around to see what becomes of The Lone Wolf and Cub....	2002-02-05
US	42627253	R2MOTJ6PKAC5UC	1569715386	741825794	Green Lantern / Aliens	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A neatly told slugfest....	With a title like Green Lantern Versus Aliens, you should be expecting a slobberknocker battle, and that's pretty much all you get...<br />  After an opening chapter that sees former Green Lantern Hal Jordan, along with a squad of other Lanterns, battle the marauding Aliens, we move on to the real story: Rather than kill the Aliens, Jordan and company deposited them on an uninhabited planet. 10 years later, a ship crashes on that World, and a group of former Lanterns enlist the NEW Green Lantern, Kyle Rayner, to help them save the crew. After all, the Aliens wouldn't be there, if not for the GL Corps....<br />  Well, that's the plot.....how's the action, you ask? Well, Ron Marz and Rick Leonardi tell a brisk, fast-paced story; we have to accept the \\"Green Lantern loses his Ring\\" contrivance, but without that, there would be no story, right? <br /> The opening chapter is a nice stroll down memory lane, and it was GREAT to see my favorite GL, Kilowog, in action again. While Green Lantern Versus Aliens doesn't offer much in the way of originality, it is a well-told story, and a good solid beat-em-up. You could certainly do worse.	2002-02-04
US	42627253	R2I37DISIEZNPA	1563898616	15903115	Wonder Woman: Spirit of Truth (Wonder Woman (Graphic Novels))	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Heartfelt Tale of the Amazon Princess.	Artist Alex Ross & Writer Paul Dini continuue their annual series of oversized Graphic Novels with The Spirit of Hope, and this one is just as good, if not better, than the previous three.<br />  Wonder Woman is, without question, one of the iconic \\"Big Three\\" DC characters, alongside Batman and Superman. She also comes in a distant third in terms of high-quality stories. Very few creators have been able to really get a handle on the Amazon Princess. An immensely powerful (and beautiful) Amazon sent to the outside world as an Ambassador of peace, she has often been portrayed (wrongfully) as a butt-kickin' brute.<br />  Well I'm happy to say that Dini & Ross have gotten it right! Spirit of Hope stands right alongside Chris Moeller's amazing Wonder Woman Graphic Novel JLA: A League of One as my all-time favorite Wonder Woman books.<br />  Spirit of Hope doesn't really have a story, per se; more an overlying theme: Wonder Woman questions the way she has been going about her mission of peace. After consulting Clark (Superman) Kent in a wonderfully understated scene (They have coffee together...), she decides to try to accomplish her goals in a more low-key manner: Not as Wonder Woman, but as Diana.<br />  Ross manages to successfully alternate between the bombastic Wonder Woman scenes, filled with double-page spreads, to the quiet scenes of Diana helping in a more Human manner. The pages of Wonder Woman saving a young girl from a tank are amazing! You really feel Wonder Woman's pain and confusion as she is greeted, less than enthusiastically, by the Arab people she is trying to save. Dini and Ross really capture her true essence: A loving, kind woman, who also happens to be able to toss around Tanks! It's also nice to be able to finish a comic and have a warm feeling inside....Good job, guys!	2002-02-01
US	42627253	R1YNNDDCYK95FQ	0312252390	865514719	Planet of the Apes Revisited: The Behind-the-Scenes Story of the Classic Science Fiction Saga	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Get Your Stinking Paws On This Book!	Planet of the Apes revisited is a must for all fans of the classic film series. From the Introduction by Charleton Heston, right through to the final chapter on Tim Burton's &quot;re-Imagining&quot;, the Authors manage to answer every question you could possibly have about the Ape Movies, TV series, and Cartoon series. This book was over 15 years in the making, so the Authors were able to interview just about everyone associated with the films, from the Stars to the Crew. Kim Hunter &amp; the late Roddy McDowell provide great anecdotes, and the struggle of the late Arthur P. Jacobs (Producer of the original Series of Films) to get a Studio to MAKE the Movies is exhaustively documented.<br /> Two small problems: 1)- Many of the pictures in the book aren't captioned, so you aren't sure who or what you're looking at; and 2)- The Authors briefly mention the Ape Comic Books, by Marvel and Malibu. I would have liked to see a chapter covering these books, as well as a chapter (or Two...), about other Ape ancillary products.<br />  Ape fans will love this book, and when you're done reading it, you'll watch the Movies with a new appreciation.	2002-01-31
US	42627253	R2NRC30AQD2PX0	0785107797	232699621	Fantastic Four Visionaries - John Byrne, Vol. 1	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Byrne's Legendary FF Run Starts Here!	When I was in Grade School, every kid I knew collected Comic Books. We would all get together every Friday in the Lunchroom and swap Comics, try to get each other to try different books, etc. I remember the excitement that we all felt when the first issue of John Byrne's Fantastic Four came out....the feeling of greatness that we all got when we read it. Everyone agreed that there would be no passing this book around- we'd all have to get our own copy every month.<br />  So, with a real feeling of nostalgia, I picked up Volume One of Fantastic Four Visionaries. The stories hold up amazingly well, even after Twenty years. Byrne doesn't do a flashy overhaul of The FF (Like he did with DC's Superman..); he simply returns the group to their most basic element: They are not a Super-Hero group. They are a FAMILY, and Byrne, for the first time since the Lee/Kirby run, has them ACT like one. They bicker. They squabble. They tease each other, but they do it with love. When one is in trouble, the others rush in to help. They have more at stake when they're in a battle than the fate of The Earth: They have to worry about the Family members they're fighting alongside.<br />  The stories in this volume are really just warm-ups for the stories that will (Hopefully!) be included in Volume II. The FF runs into Alchemical creatures sent by Diablo; Johnny (The Human Torch) Storm tries to clear the name of a dead man; The Earth is saved by the most powerful man in the World, while The FF are battling The Living Planet, Ego. A strange alien is coerced by winos (!) into helping them rob Banks. The FF welcome a new member, and help the Inhumans relocate to the Moon. Most importantly, they have their fondest wish granted by their greatest enemy: Dr. Doom. This story is perhaps the most poignant FF story ever. The emotions that Byrne imbues the characters with in this story are totally believable. The only beef that I have with the book is this: It would have been nice if Marvel had re-mastered the color. (And Byrne's stories are too wordy!! But that's just a small quibble.)<br />  Fans of The World's Greatest Comic Magazine will love this book!	2002-01-29
US	42627253	R17WWGFL5PXK9X	0786868015	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Familiar Territory For King Fans, But Worth A Look.	I hustled through this book so I could have it finished by the time Part 1 of Rose Red aired. It wasn't too hard to do- at 252 pages, it's one of Stephen king's shortest books in quite some time...and YES, I do think that Stephen king wrote this. He peppers the book with numerous clues that longtime readers will pick right up on, the style and syntax are consistant with his other books, and he even gives himself a cameo appearance as the replacement Postal Worker.<br />  The \\"Diary\\" itself treads familiar ground- A Haunted House (The Shining), and another subject that King has pretty much done to death- the opression of women (Rose Madder, Dolores Claiborne, Gerald's Game, etc.). Anyone who has read these books will find nothing new here. I think The Shining was pretty much the last word on The Haunted House/Bad Place, and the only innovation here was the Diary format. (The book is beautifully designed to look like a real Diary; Very cool.) The House itself seemed like a larger-scale, live-in version of King's haunted car, Christine.<br />  King does do a good job with the Diary's \\"Author\\", Ellen Rimbauer; It's hard not to feel sorry for this woman, trapped in a loveless marriage, and prisoner in a house that has no intention of ever letting her leave.<br />  All in all, not a bad book, but not one of King's best. I did enjoy seeing some of the events from the diary come to life on Part One of the Rose Red mini-series. As a TV tie-in, the Diary is great; as a book alone, it's pretty standard stuff....	2002-01-28
US	42627253	RA7NEMTDX3DN2	0943151244	121631247	Squee	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Poor Little Squee!!	I enjoyed Jhonen Vasquez' \\"I Feel Sick\\" mini-series, so when I saw the Squee trade-paperback, I picked it up, not knowing what to expect...<br />  Well, I certainly wasn't expecting it to be one of the best Comics I've ever read, but that's just what it was.<br />  The first half of the book is comprised of Squee stories- Squee is a little boy whose parents have no use for him; he is pursued by Aliens & Monsters, pushed around by bullies, and his only friend is the new kid at school....who just happens to be the Son of The Devil...<br />   I had no problem immediately falling in love with little Squee- He's so CUTE! (And who wouldn't identify with the childhood fear of waking up facing the wall.....with your back exposed to potential monster-attack!)<br />   The other half of the book is comprised of short strips from Vasquez' Johnny the Homicidal Maniac comic. The \\"Meanwhile\\" strips are worth the purchase price alone. My favorite concerns a man on a first date who finds his stomach-ache turning into unexpected....Diarrhea. The way he attempts to explain this had me laughing for about 10 solid minutes. <br />  This book has made me a Jhonen Vasquez fan for life, and I hope that I can get some other people to give this incredibly gifted creator a try.	2002-01-28
US	42627253	R1VDJSGG210RS3	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	1	8	14	N	N	If They Only Knew....How LOUSY this book is!	If I could have gone lower than 1 Star, I would have.....<br />  I'll start off by saying that I am a HUGE wrestling fan. I've never really been much of a Chyna fan- I could take her or leave her. I was, however, interested in learning how a woman was able to do something no other woman had ever done in the WWF- compete against the men. So I figured I'd give the book a try.<br />  First off, the book is obviously Ghost-Written. Not a big deal, if the words on the page seem like they could be coming out of the mouth of the book's subject.....I have seen dozens of hours of interviews with Joanie Laurer, and there is not ONE PAGE in this book that sounds like her. In reality, she comes off as a self-absorbed doofus craving attention. On the printed page, she's a poor man's Shakespeare. Add \\"Writer\\" Michael Angeli to my list of \\"names to avoid like the plague\\" at the bookstore. He hammers the reader with run-on sentences. The chronology of the book is a mess. Every sentence screams out with Angeli's pretentiousness. I could not envision ANY of these words coming out of Chyna's mouth.<br />  What does come out of her mouth is a non-stop orgy of self-congratulation, self-pity, mean-spirited digs, brown-nosing, and constant attempts to convince the reader (or is she really trying to convince HERSELF...?) how beautiful she is.<br />  I found her constant jabs at Walter \\"Killer\\" Kowalski to be really low. In the space of 20 pages she manages to constantly mock his accent, call him cheap, a money-grubber, mock his hairpiece, insinuate he has Head Lice(?).....nice way to repay the man who gave you your start. But then again, the whole book is about how everyone on the face of the Earth was against her....her only allies were boyfriend Triple-H (Who has since dumped her for a more conventional-looking female), and Boss Vince McMahon, the greatest human being on God's Green Earth....at least according to Joanie. (All the brown-nosing didn't help- he didn't renew her contract when it expired last year....he made Chyna, and he killed her off, too. Ironic.) We also get to read, ad-nauseum, about Joanie's horrific childhood.....her parents fought (SHUDDER....), her Mom yelled when Joanie broke her Stereo, her Mom had Four Husbands....boo-hoo-hoo. Things are tough all over, kid. I, and millions of other people, had rough childhoods. What about kids that had NO homes, NO parents, NOWHERE to turn....I really didn't appreciate her drama-queen representation of a childhood that was no worse than anyone elses.<br />  And the constant yammering on about how \\"Beautiful\\" she is....how all the boys wanted her in school- even the TEACHERS! Yeah....  Joanie, people aren't asking you if you're really a man because you're beautiful....I don't see people asking Gwyneth Paltrow that question. You're a curiousity. Nothing more, nothing less. Your 15 minutes are up, thank goodness.<br />  If I seem mean, it's because her book seemed mean. Chyna is nothing but a whining, spoiled ingrate. Grow up.	2002-01-24
US	42627253	R2YDJNHDFDUTUJ	1563898551	730831848	100 Bullets Vol. 3: Hang Up on the Hang Low	Books	4	5	11	N	N	Who would YOU use your 100 Bullets on...?	If you were given a gun and 100 bullets that were completely untraceable, would you use them? What if the man that gave them to you told you that anything you do with them would be completely above the law? Even if you were caught in the act, the Police would just let you go....<br />   This is the premise behind 100 Bullets. Agent Graves gives people a chance for revenge against someone who did them wrong......but what's in it for him...?<br />    Hang Up On The Hang Low is the story of \\"Loop\\" Hughes; graves gives him the chance to kill his father, who abandoned him as a child. Loop is soon caught up in his estranged Father's criminal lifestyle, and the Father and Son duo soon run afoul of the Mafia.....and the question lingers: Why does Mr. Graves want Loop's Dad dead? <br />    The story of Loop and his Dad is a compelling one, but it's dragged down by the fact that Author Azarello tells us NOTHING about Graves and his motives. His backstory STILL hasn't been made clear, and the Epilogue relies heavily on knowledge you'd gain from reading the previous issues of the book, or the other trade paperbacks. I read them, but can't remember every little detail. The book needs to be more new-reader friendly. I'll keep reading though- I want to know what the story is with Graves....	2002-01-23
US	42627253	RY2IMEDOGS4NH	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Martin keeps getting better and better.......	The best (and worst) thing about reading a lengthy book (or a SERIES of lengthy books) is that you spend so much time with the characters that you feel like you really know them; it's as if they really exist. That's good, if good things happen to them. If BAD things happen, though.....<br />   A storm of Swords, Book Three in George R.R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire series, is pretty much an endless parade of horror and misery, as characters I have grown to know and love are subjected to some pretty nasty plot twists. I read A LOT, so this next statement, coming from someone who can smell a plot twist coming a mile away, is really saying something: This book has a twist that just knocked me right the hell out. I was so stunned that I put the book down and didn't touch it again for a few days. I needed time to recover. And the end is a shocker! (Don't peek!!!) In the space of 925 pages, Martin took all of the assumptions I had about how this series would end, and threw them out the window...the only complaint I could possibly have is that I wish the rest of the series were available NOW. I can't wait to see what happens next!<br />  Martin is an incredibly skilled writer, juggling literally hundreds of characters (There is an index in the back to help us keep track of who's who and whose side they're on), a HUGE landscape (The book has 4 maps to help the reader), and a whole score of plots and counter-plots. He also manages to take someone who had been one of the prime villains of the series, and turn him into someone vaguely likeable. <br />   I was very angry at Mr. Martin for what he did to my favorite characters in this book, but I'll have to forgive him, because I can't wait to see what he does next. (Don't keep us waiting too long, please!)	2002-01-22
US	42627253	R2FK5IJTKPPNDO	1561632945	303056148	Moby Dick	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Grand Master of Comics takes on a classic.	With his adaptation of Moby Dick, Will Eisner seems to be reaching out to younger readers, but anyone who appreciates a great story and wonderful art should enjoy it.<br /> The adaptation is brief, so Eisner boils the story down to the bare bones- Man vs. Nature. Eisner's art is (as usual) amazing. Since his work is usually published in black-and-white, the painted color is a real treat. The climactic battle between Ahab and the White Whale is stunning. <br />  If this beautiful book makes someone want to try Melville's classic novel, then so much the better.	2002-01-22
US	42627253	R1R1VFDSDD2V6Q	1582401799	33201013	Jinx: The Definitive Collection	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Bounty Hunter + Grifters = Trouble.	With Jinx, creator Brian Michael Bendis returns to familiar territory- street-level crime fiction. He also returns to his popular character Goldfish, who previously starred in his own graphic novel, appropriately titled Goldfish.<br />  Jinx is a prequel of sorts to Goldfish. David &quot;Goldfish&quot; Gold, a petty grifter, is plying his trade with his sleazeball crony Columbia, when they are almost run over by a car containing 2 dying thugs- before they die, though, they pass along a tip about a hidden stash of loot...$3,000,000.00, to be exact. The problem is, Goldfish was told the location of the loot, Columbia was told the name it's stored under. So they're going to have to play nice to get the cash. Then along comes &quot;Jinx&quot; Alameda, a female bounty hunter looking to get enough cash to leave her sordid job behind. Goldfish and Jinx fall for each other, Columbia decides he doesn't want to share, the REAL owner of the cash comes looking for it....you can just feel the trouble brewing......<br />  The story is well-told, and the book itself is HUGE; a tremendous value for your money. I loved the way that Bendis told the stories of the bystanders at the Arcade. It really made the scene take on more urgency by turning the  onlookers into real people, as opposed to potential victims. Jinx is a great character; one of the most fully-developed females in comics, and I loved the dialogue- it's really Bendis' strong suit.<br />  The bad...? The same as all of Bendis' other collections- POOR PRODUCTION VALUES. The introduction to the book has the usual transposed pages, a trademark of Bendis. There is also the typical mind-boggling array of misspelled words throughout the book. Bendis seriously needs an editor, and his wife just ain't cutting it.<br />  You'd probably want to read Goldfish first- It'll make the ending easier to follow. And check out Torso, also by Bendis. It's amazing!	2002-01-21
US	42627253	REX2TTZGY7VC8	1582401950	557517383	Goldfish	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Gritty Comic-Noir....	Goldfish is, at it's simplest level, a revenge story. A grifter returns to take back something that belongs to him; something that his former partner is unwilling to relinquish, and will kill to keep. The difference between this and every other revenge story is the prize in question is not stolen loot, but a child- the son of David &quot;Goldfish&quot; Gold and his former lover/partner Lauren.<br />  Lauren is now a bigshot crime-boss, while Goldfish is still pulling small-time cons. To give away anything else would be to do potential readers a great injustice. <br />  Writer/Artist Brian Michael Bendis keeps the twists and turns coming, and the book is HUGE- a great value.<br />  The drawbacks are the same ones I've had with most of Bendis' collections, including Jinx, Fire, &amp; Torso: Poor production values. The climax of Goldfish has a few pages printed out of order, and the book is FILLED with misspelled words. (That kind of stuff drives me nuts!) Bendis' art is too murky also, and at times it was very difficult to tell who was doing what to whom.<BR>But readers who are looking for a well-told, twisty crime drama will probably enjoy Goldfish.	2002-01-19
US	42627253	R2FSPSJQV4L4D6	0671727796	730655858	The Color Purple	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An uplifting book of sorrow, loss, & love.	... Alice Walker's Pulitzer-Prize winner tells the tale of Celie, a poor black girl, and follows her from her abusive childhood to old age.<br /> The story is told first-person, through her letters to God, and to her Sister Nettie. I won't spoil any of the surprises this book holds, both terrible and wonderful.<br /> I will, however, heap praise on Alice Walker, and the wonderful writing style she uses to put the reader right inside both Celie's and Nettie's heads, through their respective letters to each other. Celie herself is an amazing character, a pillar of strength, while the character of Sofia is one of the most memorable ones I've ever encountered in a novel, even with her limited amount of \\"screen time\\".<br /> Lovers of great literature would do well to give this amazing book a try.	2002-01-01
US	42627253	R920TF5LAOZ5I	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Almost as good as A Game of Thrones.	Upon reading the first book in this series (A Game of Thrones), I ran around for weeks, telling everyone that would listen that it was the best book I have ever read. So it was with a weird mix of anticipation and dread that I started A Clash of Kings. What if it wasn't as good? <br /> Well, it was as good. The only reason I'm not giving it a 5 is because by the end of the book, I was starting to have a little trouble keeping all of the various characters, their machinations, the wars, betrayals, alliances, etc., straight. This is a REALLY dense, busy book; you have to pay attention when you read it.<br /> After the shocking murder that threw the Seven Kingdoms into turmoil in Book One, the various Kingdoms are at war; No less than 5 different men are claiming the mantle of King.......<BR> Joffrey Baratheon- son of the late King Robert....or IS he?<BR> Renly Baratheon- Robert's younger brother. A great talker, but can he lead an Army?<BR> Stannis Baratheon- Robert's older brother. He's lived in Robert's shadow for over a decade (Hating him all that time), and now he's ready to claim what he feels should have been his all along....by any means necessary.<BR> Robb Stark- A 16 year old who has had the mantle of leadership thrust upon him, he fights more for revenge upon the people who tore apart his family than for power.<BR> Balon Greyjoy- Father of Theon Greyjoy, Ward of Eddard Stark. While the other 4 armies fight in the open, he will sneak in and try to get revenge on his dead enemy.<BR> Meanwhile, Danaerys Targaryen, the rightful heir to the Iron Throne, struggles to raise an army, and reclaim her birthright. (Did I mention she's only 14 years old?)<BR> And beyond the wall in the North, Mance Rayder is rallying an army of Wildlings, Wargs, Mammoths, Giants, and God-knows-what-else, in a bid to break through the wall, and take the Seven Kingdoms as his own.<br /> And that's just the Cliffs Notes version.....There's intrigue, incest, sorcery, cannibalism, the walking dead, fratricide, rapes, murders, looting & pillaging...whew!<br /> Martin, as in the last book, earns a ton of admiration for being able to juggle dozens of stories, told from 10 or 12 different perspectives, without confusing the reader (too much, at least!). After reading the first Two books back-to-back, I decided to read someting else before plunging into Book Three. Perhaps the truest compliment I can Give Mr. Martin is this: In the 4 days since I finished A Clash of Kings, I think of Arya, Sansa, Robb, Rickon, Bran, Jon, and the Wolves quite a bit. I can't wait to see what happens to them next, and fervently hope that they all make it through to the conclusion of the series alive.<br /> Bravo, Mr. Martin!<br /> Now on to A Storm of Swords!	2001-12-29
US	42627253	R1NXO9C6HXST47	0785107886	919584254	Ultimate X-Men Vol. 1: The Tomorrow People	Books	4	30	41	N	N	What the X-Men movie should have been.....	Marvel created the &quot;Ultimate&quot; line of books to try to entice new readers by scrapping decades of complex continuity in favor of a fresh start. Supposedly, no prior knowledge of the books or their characters are necessary for you to get a good read that won't leave you scratching your head in bewilderment. So....does it work?<br />  I guess....I've been reading comics since I was 3, so I really can't say how a &quot;newbie&quot; would fare. <br />  I CAN tell you that I loved this book!! I wish that the makers of the atrocious X-Men flick had filmed this for the mutant's initial big-screen outing. <br /> Mark Millar and the Kubert Bros. story does a great job of getting you up to speed fast: People born with strange, potentially deadly, powers exist among us, and pose a very real threat to life as we know it. Two men, Professor Charles Xavier (Leader of The X-Men), and Magneto (Leader of The Brotherhood of Mutants), fight an idealogical battle to win the hearts and loyalty of their fellow Mutants. Xavier wants to help Mutantkind make peace with Humanity, while Magneto sees Humanity as an annoyance that must be disposed of, so Mutants can ascend to their rightful place. This take-no-prisoners approach doesn't sit well with president Dubya; he unleashes the giant robotic Sentinels on a search-and-destroy mission to annihilate all Mutants. The story follows the recruiting of The X-Men (Jean Grey, Cyclops, Storm, The Beast, Iceman, Colossus, &amp; Wolverine), and their first confrontation with Magneto. (And what a confrontation it is!) <br />   Magneto has never been better written; he comes across as both charismatic and chilling...a super-powered cross between Charles Manson and Hannibal Lecter. He also does something VERY original with The Sentinals...very clever, Mr. Millar! Xavier is more cold-blooded than he is in the &quot;real&quot; Marvel continuity; I don't totally trust him.(Did he tamper with Scott's mind to make him defect....? Hmmmmm.)<br />   IfI loved it so much, why just a Four? I didn't care for the portrayal of Colossus: When we meet him, he's a soldier for the Russian Mafia, selling a stolen Nuclear weapon to an underling of Magneto. This troubling &quot;Character flaw&quot; is never mentioned again. That just bothered me a lot...I guess I hold my heroes up to high standards. I was also kinda weirded out by the way Jean just lept into bed with Wolverine, and the strong language peppered throughout the book. I'm no prude, but X-Men is an all-ages type of book, and the language just seemed unnecessary.<br />  Overall, a great read- I'm gonna stick around for more.	2001-12-28
US	42627253	R11CNAHTCTME09	1889317020	750702425	University Squared: The Angry Years	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Funny animals aren't just for kids anymore!	I've been a fan of Liberty Meadows, the comic book that collects Frank Cho's syndicated comic strip of the same name, for years now, so when University Squared became available again, I pounced on it. It's kind of a weird companion piece to Liberty Meadows; not quite a prequel (these stories were from Cho's College newspaper), and although the characters have the same names in both books, there are weird differences: one character is a duck in this book, and a man in Liberty Meadows; another a lima Bean (!) here, a frog in Liberty Meadows. (It's really weird...)<br />  There isn't a story, per se. The book follows the characters (Animals, attending school with Humans....)as they drink and carouse their way through campus life. The cartoons are much raunchier than the later Liberty Meadows strips; without the anal retentive syndicate to hamstring him, Cho can go all out with the gags. (Even the raunchiest of the strips never gets beyond a PG-13 level, though. So it is safe for older kids.) Cho manages to deliver some really good belly-laughs, and slips in a touching ending as well. Comic strip fans who find the daily funnies too whitebread are well advised to enroll in this University.<br />  GOOD JOB, MONKEY BOY!!!!	2001-12-15
US	42627253	RO2KUN4IK5Q1O	1563898705	331222438	Dark Knight Strikes Again, The - VOL 01 (Batman)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	An entertaining book, but not as good as the original.	When Frank Miller unleashed The Dark Knight 15 years ago, he took the world by storm with his nihilistic view of Batman and Gotham City. The World's media took notice, and Comic Books were thrust into the Mainstream of American culture.<br /> The Comic industry isn't in such great shape right now, so it's only appropriate that Miller revisit The Dark Knight. (Except The Dark Knight makes barely a cameo appearance in the first book, but that's neither here nor there.)<br /> The story in the first issue mainly concerns Carrie Kelly, the young female Robin from The Dark Knight Returns, now known as Catgirl, as she leads a team of young Batmen in a quest to free a group of Imprisoned heroes. (I won't spoil their identities; that's half the fun.) Miller keeps Batman under wraps until the end, and whan he finally makes his grand entrance, it's very impressive.<br /> The problems I had with the book are mainly artistic: The original Dark Knight was lushly illustrated by Miller; the smallest background nuance was lovingly rendered. The Dark Knight Strikes Again has little more than character art; It seemed like Miller wanted to give Lynn Varley a blank canvas to computer color, which I found kind of cheesy, to be honest. And on the writing front, faithful DC Comics fans will see the Lex Luthor twist coming a mile off....Frank, in the current DC Universe, Lex is the President of the United States! Making him the puppet-master of a hologram President isn't much of a shocking plot twist.<br /> I don't know if this book isn't as good as the original, or if I'm just more mature than the 15 year-old that devoured the Dark Knight the first time around, or what...I just know that I kind of felt let down. The book was good, but nothing special. I'll stick around for the conclusion, though....I think Catgirl is the cat's meow.	2001-12-12
US	42627253	R3PODT3D0ZBPT2	0785107819	877521467	Marvel Boy	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Maybe the most unlikeable &quot;Hero&quot; ever.	There seem to be three Grant Morrisons: The writer who crafted such wonderful, thought-provoking tales as Animal Man, the one who cranks out excreable drek such as Skrull Kill Krew, and the one who weaves weird, impenetrable head-trip tales like The Invisibles. All three seem to have collaborated on Marvel Boy.<br /> Marvel boy tells the tale of an alien teen who, stranded on Earth, lashes out at his tormentors. The story is just an excuse for this loathsome kid to wreck New York City and blow stuff up. The first half of the book stunk, the second half was mildly better, but I just couldn't get into this character.<br />  The villain, clad in an old Iron Man costume, and his daughter were much more interesting, and J.G. Jones' art was phenomenal; I was blown away by the detailing, and the coloring enhanced it nicely.<br />  Huge Morrison fan will buy the book regardless; all others might want to think twice. (I would like to see a sequel that involves 100+ pages of this little punk getting mercilessly beaten, though.....)	2001-12-09
US	42627253	R2ZX07MZWQ4ZVE	1563897881	355126383	Stormwatch VOL 05: Final Orbit (Stormwatch (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A fast paced thrill ride.	Reading Final Orbit is like coming into a great movie halfway through.....I'm a big Warren Ellis fan, and I own all of the other Stormwatch trades, as well as his whole run on The Authority, but for a good portion of this story, I was lost. A brief &quot;Story so far&quot; and character bios would have been invaluable. As it was, I had a hard time feeling anything upon seeing the Stormwatch team being ripped apart by the Aliens. The characters are pretty generic; we don't even get to see their deaths onscreen. <br /> The Alien sequence in the middle of the book is very cinematic, and zips along briskly. The rest of the book had me scurrying to my back issue collection to get some answers..What did Bendix have in that tube in his apartment? What did he do to honk off Jenny Sparks? Why did I.O. want The Weatherman's brother dead? To say nothing of the never-explained starship the Aliens are aboard....<br /> If you can suspend your disbelief, and go with the flow, you'll enjoy Final Orbit. Be sure to check out The Authority trade paperbacks, too.	2001-12-04
US	42627253	R3SQPMRVKXCVFD	1563897792	349794136	Bizarro Comics	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Me am disappointed, Greg.	Bizarro Comics presents a mixed bag of stories featuring DC's most famous characters, as portrayed by a stellar array of alternative comic's best Writers &amp; Artists. Unfortunately, most of the stories aren't up to snuff.<br />  The good first: Artist Stephan DeStephano's Bizarro is soooo freakin' weird, I just couldn't stop chuckling every time he appeared. And he appeared a LOT, but more on that later. Writer Chris Duffy gives Bizarro such a freaky speech pattern that the laugh quotient is high, at least in the framing story....As for the shorter stories, Wonder Girl Vs. Wonder Tot was adorable, The Silence of the Fishes and The Man Who Cried Fish (Both starring Aquaman) were hilarious, the Batcave story was touching, and the Sidekicks trying to start their own Super-Team was weird and wild. The coloring and production values in all of the stories were GREAT, and DC really serves up a georgeous package at a reasonable price. There's a lotta bang for your buck...<br />   Now the bad: Some of the stories were just plain stupid (The Wonder Woman goes shopping story), and others were amateurish (Hawkman saving a kidnapped egg...), and the framing story, while funny and enjoyable, is WAAAYYYY TOOO LOOOONGGG!!! It's over 80 pages by itself. Why?? And why is Matt Groening taking credit for the cover that was clearly drawn by Bill Morrison?<br />  Overall, it's a beautiful book, with a few very good stories, and I'll recommend it for those reasons.	2001-12-02
US	42627253	R5653BZNVBFGO	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	My new #1 FAVORITE book!!!!	Ok...first of all, I hate &quot;Fantasy&quot; books. I read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings when I was 7, loved them, have re-read them numerous times, and that was enough Fantasy for me. I cringe at the mention of Elves, Fairys, Trolls, etc. Harry Potter gave me my fill of that stuff. (I love the Potter books, so there ARE exceptions.....). I was pretty much dared to read A Game of Thrones after I posted a review of Legends, an anthology that had a short story by George R.R. Martin. I loved that story, but wrote that I wouldn't try his Song of Ice &amp; Fire books because I hate Fantasy. I received an e-mail urging me to give it a try, so I did (Thanks Buddy, wherever you are!), and here I am.....I have to re-write my &quot;About Myself&quot; profile to include the fact that A Game of Thrones is (my new) all-time favorite book!<br />  Martin sets his story in the Seven Kingdoms, which are ruled by one King, but have many different Lords and Houses; all of which dwell under a very fragile peace. Needless to say, that peace doesn't last long, and betrayal, incest, murder, and revenge become the orders of the day.<br />  The narrative unfolds from numerous perspectives, among them:<br />  Lord Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell, who is pressed into<br />  service as the Hand of the King, who he helped win the<br />  crown.<br />  His Wife, The Lady Catelyn Stark; who proves herself to be<br />  every bit as tough and resourceful as her Husband.<br />  Their Children Bran, Arya, and Sansa, as well as Eddard's<br />  Bastard son, Jon Snow- The children all have their own<br />  stories to tell, as tragic, and often horrific, events<br />  send them in their own seperate directions, to face<br />  their own destinies.<br />  Daenyris Stormborn, the last heir of the former king; we<br />  follow her truly tragic quest as she transforms from a<br />  sad little girl who just wants to go home into a<br />  steely-willed young woman, determined to become  a<br />  Queen.<br /> The book is populated by, literally, HUNDREDS of characters. I admit that, at first, it was somewhat hard to keep track of who was who. But Martin's writing is so brilliant that after a while you can rattle off these characters and their histories without missing a beat. It takes a truly gifted writer to craft an epic, and Martin is one of those who has pulled it off. There were moments where I wanted to cry, or cheer, or yell &quot;look out!!&quot; The plot twists were truly TWISTS; I didn't see them coming a mile off, as in most stories.<br />  I can practically guarantee that if you give this book a try, you'll love it. I'm already well into Book Two, A Clash of Kings.<br />And it's looking like it'll top book one......steely-willed young woman, determined to become  a <BR>          Queen.<br /> The book is populated by, literally, HUNDREDS of characters. I admit that, at first, it was somewhat hard to keep track of who was who. But Martin's writing is so brilliant that after a while you can rattle off these characters and their histories without missing a beat. It takes a truly gifted writer to craft an epic, and Martin is one of those who has pulled it off. There were moments where I wanted to cry, or cheer, or yell &quot;look out!!&quot; The plot twists were truly TWISTS; I didn't see them coming a mile off, as in most stories. <br />  I can practically guarantee that if you give this book a try, you'll love it. I'm already well into Book Two, A Clash of Kings.<BR>And it's looking like it'll top book one......	2001-12-01
US	42627253	R39ZZ4IGT1FTAD	0969887477	700613905	A Complete Lowlife	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Hey!! Who's throwing Coke!??!?!?!	I was expecting another slice-of-life Autobiographical comic mixing the mundane with the humorous. The opening story delivers that, and I was laughing myself sick.....then the REAL story began....<br />   A Complete Lowlife is author Ed Brubaker's true story of petty crime, drug addiction, murder and redemption. The book gets darker and darker with each story, and there were parts that just broke my heart.Since this is a true story, things don't get wrapped up neatly; the main character doesn't always know the right thing to say, or when to say it. He doesn't always do the right thing. <br />  Like you and me.<br /> Anyone who hasn't always been proud of things they've done or said will be able to identify. Brubaker is now a successful comic book writer, currently doing a wonderful job on DC's Batman. All the more impressive considering what he's been through. There's just no way you won't be touched in some way by this book. Give it a try.	2001-11-19
US	42627253	R5N666DJ3PL1C	156971231X	138897377	Tarzan vs. Predator at the Earth's Core (Dark Horse Collection)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Kreegah!! The Predators are just an afterthought.	I'm not too familiar with Burroughs' Tarzan work outside of the Movies and Comics, so the first half of this book had my mind swimming. There isn't enough recap for a Tarzan newbie like me; I bought it for the Predators, and, (sadly) they seem to be an afterthought in the plot. On the plus side, the book really picks up steam in the second half, and by the end I was totally engrossed. <br />    Walt Simonson's story is pretty decent, as is Lee Weeks' art. Predator fans might be disappointed, but it's still entertaining. <br />  Fans who enjoy this should check out Batman/Tarzan: Claws of the Catwoman. Great stuff!	2001-11-19
US	42627253	R1GC34CC8HPB0N	0312264003	128759635	Tough Call: Hard-Hitting Phone Pranks	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A book about phone calls....?	As a big fan of both the Jerky Boys and The Onion, I decided to give Tough Call a try. On the plus side, there are some really funny transcripts in this book, especially the finale where Mike tries to set up an arms deal with a Brazillian weapons dealer. The minus side is this: It's not as funny in print as it could be in an audio format. The book is pretty slim, so I'd advise prospective readers to check out the sample pages above to see if it's their cup of tea.	2001-11-07
US	42627253	R3AMMTK8SKHUOX	0609804944	602143291	Urban Legends: The As-Complete-As-One-Could-Be Guide to Modern Myths	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Great topic, horrible execution.	The worst sin a book about Urban Legends could commit is to confuse the reader about what is fact, and what is fiction. This book does that time after time. The author hops around between Urban Legend and the truth that may have inspired it, and the writing is so poor that you can't keep track of what's what. The book is also filled with nonsensical run-on sentences; I often had to go back and reread certain sentences 3 or 4 times before just giving up. This book looks and reads like somone published it from their basement. N.E. Genge goes on my list of &quot;Must-NOT-Read&quot; Authors.<br /> People interested in a well-done book on the same topic should start with Paradox Press' excellent &quot;Big Book of Urban Legends&quot;.	2001-11-03
US	42627253	R2UAABT5ZIPZT8	0943151287	740079585	Dreadstar, Volume 1: Metamorphosis Odyssey	Books	2	3	10	N	N	An ambitious, but weak, effort.....	I'm a big fan of Jim Starlin, and I have fond memories of reading the Dreadstar series when I was a young teen. So it was with great anticipation that I read (for the first time) Dreadstar Volume One: The Metamorphosis Odyssey. <br /> Boy was I let down....This is a preachy mess that has NOTHING to do with the series that followed it. We follow a group of characters that are nothing more than empty shells, as they fight a race of bad guys that are never given any substance either. <br /> Vanth Dreadstar himself is an obnoxious creep, so there is NO ONE to feel for in this book.....all you can do is be dragged along for a quest that takes Millions of years to complete, and then is rendered completely moot at the end. The saving grace is that the last few pages manage to tie this mess up, and set up the better stories that followed.	2001-10-29
US	42627253	R15GW7M0RAPQMV	1569715424	554860429	Star Wars: Darth Maul	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Dark Side is Strong...........	I bought this book with low expectations; I find the Darth Maul character very interesting, so I picked up the book for a quick fix of my 2nd favorite Sith Lord.<br />  WOW, was I surprised!!! <br />  There isn't much story to speak of (Darth Sidious dispatches Maul to knock off the organized crime empire Black Sun, of Shadows of the Empire fame, so they can't interfere with the blockade of Naboo), but writer Marz nails Mauls character, delivering an unstoppable juggernaut of a baddie, and artist Jan Duursema's work is astounding. She captures the fluidity of movement that Ray Park brought to the character in the film, and I spent a lot of time just lingering over her beautiful pencil work. The climactic battle between Maul and a &quot;Nightsister&quot; is wonderfully depicted as well. <br /> Memo to Dark Horse, Marz and Duursema: SEQUEL PLEASE!!!!<br />P.S.- Sith fans should check out Dark Horse Comics Star Wars Tales #9, featuring the battle we've all wondered about: Darth Vader vs. Darth Maul!!!!	2001-10-29
US	42627253	RP6QCKQ7SQT0D	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A truly realistic portrait of aimless teens.	Ghost World doesn't have much of a story to speak of. It simply chronicles the lives of Rebecca &amp; Enid, two recent High-School grads who spend every waking moment pursuing their &quot;Too-cool&quot; existence, never realizing that no one else really likes them, and that all they really have is each other. This is the first book of any kind that I've come across that realistically portrays just how cruel and callous young girls can be. Dan Clowes makes the girls seem so real that you want to just reach into the book and either smack them (the terrible prank they play on a lonely man who took out a classified ad), or hug them (the arguement that Rebecca and Enid have that drives a wedge between them). This is a truly touching slice-of-life story, and Dan Clowes has just won over a new fan.	2001-10-28
US	42627253	R33C0UF2BESV9G	0812580370	713206696	The Tomb (Adversary Cycle/Repairman Jack)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I LOVE REPAIRMAN JACK!!!	I bought this book because it is (supposedly...) the sequel to The Keep. Well, I don't see any connection.....but on the plus side, The Tomb is a rip-roaring action/horror novel that stands on it's own wonderfully well.<br />  The book tells the story of Repairman Jack, a sort-of urban mercenary/fixer, who is hired to recover the heirloom necklace of an old Indian matron. From there, the story rolls along briskly, encompassing indian mythology, ancient Bengali Demons, and ritual revenge.<br />  Repairman Jack himself is a true find; a very human, almost everyman character, who is a refreshing change from the typical superman-type characters you get in books like this. You actually WORRY about this guy.....<br />  I'm really looking forward to the rest of Wilson's repairman Jack books!	2001-10-26
US	42627253	R3C4Z7S2FATT2L	1569716250	222366071	Atlantis: The Lost Empire	Books	1	0	5	N	N	AWFUL!!!	I haven't seen the movie yet, so I can't, and won't, compare. I'll just say that the adaptation is a haphazard mess that seems more like a fast-forward highlight reel than a true re-telling. The reader is likely to spend much of the time wondering what just happened, how did we get from there to here, who is that, etc., which does not make for an enjoyable read. I realize that the book is targeted at children, but children are YOUNG, not stupid. Even when I was younger I would have dismissed this as trash. Greg Ehrbar (The &quot;writer&quot;) is a name I will studiously avoid in the future. The saving grace is the sketchbook in the back, showcasing the design work of the movie's Production Designer, famed comic-book creator Mike Mignola. I bought the book just to see his sketches, and at least they delivered.<br /> Mignola fans might be happy, but all others should steer clear.	2001-10-17
US	42627253	R3NVIC0Z287XPC	0930289382	71392649	Green Arrow: The Longbow Hunters	Books	4	24	25	N	N	An overlooked gem	With all of the hype surrounding filmmaker Kevin &quot;Clerks&quot; Smith's revamp of Green Arrow, I decided to give Mike Grell's classic a try. <br /> WOW.<br /> Every comic fan should read this. The story concerns itself with the aging Oliver Queen, A.K.A. Green Arrow, a Super-Hero/Vigilante. He and his lover, Dinah Lance, the heroine known as Black Canary, have relocated to Seattle, and soon find themselves getting involved with Serial Killers, Drug Smugglers, and a Japanese assassin known as Shado. To say any more would be to do potential readers a great injustice. There are some truly stunning moments....<BR>  <BR>  Grell's art is fantastic, as is his writing; the only thing keeping this book from perfection is a handful of double page spreads that didn't (at first glance) LOOK like double page spreads; I found myself reading the left-hand page from top to bottom, then realizing I was meant to read both pages across....the art just wasn't drawing my eyes where they were meant to be. But that's a small beef. Let's hope DC Comics collects some more of Grell's Green Arrow stories. I know I'd buy them!	2001-10-17
US	42627253	R305AOLIJ7Z7K0	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Don't read this before going to bed.....	I've read this book at least 5 times, and seen the movie maybe 100 times, and I never get sick of either one. I never get tired of being scared...and this book IS scary.<br />   For those that don't know, The Exorcist is the story of Regan MacNeil, the 12 year old daughter of actress Chris MacNeil, and the nightmarish ordeal of demonic possession that they must endure. The book builds slowly, allowing you to get to know the characters, but never lets it's relentless pace falter; Blatty uses some razor-sharp prose, and some amazing psychological and theological viewpoints, to carry the reader along to the riveting conclusion. Blatty also creates some truly unforgettable characters, such as Father Merrin, the aged Exorcist who is drawn into battle once more with his implacable enemy, Pazuzu, and Detective Kinderman, who is, for my money, the coolest fictional detective since Sherlock Holmes.<BR>If you want a truly well written thriller, give The Exorcist a try.	2001-10-10
US	42627253	R20FJOWAPJUJ9L	0812579259	606443502	The Keep	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A cool re-imagining of the Vampire legend.	The Keep revolves around a Nazi Officer and his men who are stationed in the Romanian Mountains, charged with setting up a base in an small abandoned Castle, the \\"Keep\\" of the book's title. When a greedy soldier disturbs some of the Keeps unorthodox architecture, and soldiers start dying, an elite SS troop is sent in to stop the killings. And things get worse....<br /> A romanian folklore expert is brought in to decipher strange writing found at the scene of one of the murders, a frail old man who just happens to be Jewish....so you can imagine how he feels about keeping Nazis alive. Throw in the old man's daughter, a mysterious man carrying a mysterious package, and one of the nastiest monsters in horror novel history, and you've got all the ingredients for a \\"keeper\\" (HAHAHA...) of a book.<br /> Does Wilson deliver? You betcha....Molosar is one of the nastiest pieces of work this vampire fan has ever encountered, and the way that Wilson explains the vampiric mythology of crucifixes and garlic and mirrors is nothing short of fascinating. I spent much of the book trying to puzzle out his many little riddles, such as why Molosar fears the Cross when Cuza wields it, but kills a Nazi who is holding a cross. Wilson deftly keeps the reader guessing, and in this day of saw-the-ending-coming -a mile-away books, that's something special. I'm looking forward to reading the second book of \\"The Adversary Cycle\\", The Tomb.	2001-10-10
US	42627253	R1D771ZITFBGRL	1560974354	266037712	Haw!	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Not for the faint of heart....	The sub-title of HAW!! is &quot;Horrible, Horrible Cartoons.&quot;, which pretty much serves to warn away the easily offended. Brunetti serves up 90-some odd (Very odd...) 1 page gag strips that read like &quot;The Far Side&quot; on crack. No topic is taboo, but if you're open minded, and looking for a LOT of laughs at everyone else's expense, HAW!! should fit the bill. Fans of Lenny Bruce, Bill Hicks, Sam Kinison, Richard Pryor, et al, will find Brunetti's subversive humor to be a perfect counter-point to the misplaced political correctness of the day. I can't rave about this book enough.	2001-10-10
US	42627253	R3UVWS8VN48754	1891830171	249700821	The Collected Hutch Owen	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A lot of laughs, and a lot to think about.	I bought Hutch Owen expecting to laugh, not learn. But if a cartoon book about an anarchic vagrant can be funny, and educational, and touching, and a thousand other things, so much the better.<BR>   <BR>  Hutch is a hard-working man, whose work just happens to be railing against the system and alerting the common man to the depradations of Big Business, embodied in the book by &quot;Worner Products&quot;. (CEO Dennis Worner has some...odd....ideas, among them a line of Malcolm X clothing and paraphernalia and a bizarre soft drink, plus the &quot;Punk Rock Car.....GET ANGRY FOR IT!!!!&quot; I suspsct that some of these products would, in real life, be big sellers....)<BR>   <BR>  Hutch tries to impart gentle lessons in humanity to people, and I found his friendship with a little boy, and their quest to build a &quot;Hideout&quot; from the rest of the world to be particularly touching. The 3rd story in the 4 story book is a flat-out gutbuster, as Hutch is forced to get a job (gasp...) for the stock-market. The way he innocently plays all of the idiotic traders for fools, and casually manipulates the market, is hilarious. <br />    In the end, we would all be better off if we really had a Hutch Owen......	2001-10-10
US	42627253	R1C7K3G6IVETNU	0811826848	684665509	The Beatles Anthology	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Straight from the horses mouth(s)..	First off- the book itself is just beautiful; an amazingly well designed book. It's just HUGE, and every page is a treasure; lovely to look at. My big problem was the cost- I wouldn't mind so much if all (or even SOME..) of the proceeds went to charity. Do the Beatles (and the inexplicable Yoko) not have enough money?<br /> That said, I enjoyed the book a lot. The book is laid out in a way that makes you feel that you're sitting around a table with The Fab Four, just shooting the breeze. Their stories are fascinating, especially the way their memories don't...quite....gel. John, unfortunately, comes off as something of an egomaniac, and a rather pompous one at that. It seems that everything of any worth (in his opinion) was his idea. I'm still a fan of his music, I'm just a little less a fan of the man. <br />   My only real beef with the book is the lack of a narrative voice- The Beatles mention John's car accident, Mary Quant, etc., but there is no narrator to let the unenlightened in on what happened, who that person was, etc. Otherwise, Beatles fans will spend many a happy hour reading this book.	2001-10-01
US	42627253	R3VLAUGJAPARHQ	1569248346	34250932	The Cowboy Wally Show	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Man, The Myth, The Legend....COWBOY WALLY!!	The Cowboy Wally Show presents the &quot;Mockumentary&quot; retrospective of the stellar career of TV &quot;Legend&quot; Cowboy Wally. The book unfolds like a real documentary- We get the &quot;Candid Interview&quot; first, followed by a rare screening of his French Foreign Legion epic &quot;Sands of Blood&quot;, and, for the finale, a gut-busting screening, (as well as a behind-the-scenes glimpse), of the jail-house retelling of Hamlet, complete with a drag-queen Ophelia, and paper cut-outs filling in for actors. If you don't laugh at the prison scenes (&quot;Hamlet......it's a nickname my mom calls me....&quot;) you must be dead. Kyle Baker is a genius!	2001-10-01
US	42627253	R3OU59015MYBWU	1561632287	266871690	The Fatal Bullet: The Assassination of President James A. Garfield (A Treasury of Victorian Murder)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A true eye-opener....	As a history buff, and a fan of Rick Geary's, I knew I'd enjoy this book, but I had no idea how much! The book tells the paralell stories of President James A. Garfield and his stalker (and eventual assassin) Charles Giteau, an abysmal failure in every aspect of life; indeed, his ONLY success in life was the murder of President Garfield, and he almost botched that up, too. Garfield lingered for months after the attack, dying perhaps more as a result of medical incompetence than Giteau's efforts.<BR> Geary's wonderfully cartoony art is reminiscent of claymation; it gives a true illusion of depth and form. He is truly one of the underrated geniuses of the Comic art form. His meticulous research gives us many interesting facts, such as The President being allowed to walk around Washington D.C. unescorted (No Secret Service yet), Abraham Lincoln's son's association with Garfield, and too many others to count. Do yourself a favor- read the book!!	2001-09-27
US	42627253	R1UUX48J2QRL3A	0812577809	486299975	Maze of Worlds (House of Doors series)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	An unnecessary sequel to a so-so original	I'm a big fan of Mr. Lumley's Necroscope series, so I eagerly purchased The House Of Doors, and it's follow-up Maze Of Worlds. I found The House of Doors to be a moderately entertaining book; the literary equivalant of a summer popcorn movie: a group of disparate people, trapped in an alien testing ground, must prove The Earth and her denizens worthy of continued survival by facing (and beating) their worst fears. Not Lumley's best work, but entertaining nonetheless. Maze of Worlds, however, offers nothing more than a virtually blow-for-blow remake of the original. Aside from the fact that the bad guy (Bad Jellyfish?) escaped in first book, what need was there for this sequel? The ending is incredibly rushed, too....it's as if Lumley was given a page limit, and had to wrap things up fast. On the plus side, some of the stuff in this book is truly original, such as the world that is a giant Brain Tumor. Fans of Brian Lumley will undoubtedly find something to like in this book, as I did. The uninitiated, however, will probably want to steer clear. The book also contains a preview of Necroscope: Invaders, which is vastly superior.	2001-08-19
US	42627253	R321Z5Z1DD8Q73	1563897458	740128815	Shazam! Power of Hope	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The perfect way to introduce people to the world of comics.	When people find out that I STILL read comics at the stodgy old age of 30, I'm usually given &quot;The LOOK&quot;....like I must be a case of arrested development or something...(I AM, but that'll be our secret..). This is the kind of book that I talk about when I explain just what it is I enjoy about the Comic Book as an art form. While there is some extremely well done (and beautifully illustrated!) action to be found in The Power Of Hope, the majority of the book is grounded in simple character interaction, as Captain Marvel decides to visit terminally ill children and try to grant their wishes. The dialogue is perfect, and casually answers some nagging questions about the &quot;Big Red Cheese&quot; that I didn't even know I had, such as how did little Billy Batson sign the lease on his apartment? The art is simply beautiful (check out the Gorilla, and the Volcano sequence that opens the book.), and if you can get through this book without being moved to tears, well....you're a lot tougher than me.	2001-08-19
