US	42629613	R2E17Q32MRZ53R	0553572733	474750115	Before the Storm (Star Wars: The Black Fleet Crisis)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A Flavor All it's Own	The Black Fleet Crisis books are hard to review.  The 'Luke' plotline is decent, although it fails to give rise to any strong, particular interest.  Then you get the 'Lando' storyline, which is dull, incohesive, and overall a bit too similar to Arthur C. Clark.  At the same time, you get the 'Leia' storyline, which is a very well-done tale of political crisis that mirror many ethnic problems of the day.  The Republic is obviously presented as building itself up and still vulnerable.  Politics are brought to the forefront here, effecting every deed and action.  This is definetely one of the most 'adult' SW books with political and military plotting and events that seem far superior to the vast majority of those in a SW novel.  Kube-MacDowell has just added another dimension onto the SW universe that unfortunately had been picked up by almost no one, which is rather a letdown in its own right.  Indeed, the Black Fleet Crisis books are largely ignored and James Luceno seems to be the only author that's really involved its characters into his own storylines.<br />Two of the three distinct plotlines aren't worth your time, but the actual Black Fleet Crisis story parallels in eerie and revealing detail modern crisses such as 'ethnic cleansing', racial tension, and involvement in the affairs of toher nations and lands.  The Yevetha are an interesting race that have been unfortunately called sterotypical and untineresting by the same people who called the similar-but-even-more-outlandish Yuuzahn Vong fanstastic.  The series needs its due, if for no other reason than the fact that the main plotline is one of the most intelligent and adult in any SW book.  Read the 'Lea' storyline and skip the 'Luke' and 'Lando' ones.  You'll walk away satisfied then.	2001-11-11
US	42629613	RUX51RZIQ6IB2	0553572776	938896950	Shield of Lies (Star Wars: The Black Fleet Crisis Deries)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Suffers by Nature	Here Kube-MacDowell tried to bind two parts of a trilogy together and, alas, failed in his venture.  Far too much time is spent on the flaws, uninteresting 'Luke' and 'Lado' storylines and not enough on the 'Leia' storyline, which actually exhibits intelligence.  While 'Before the Storm' had at least some interaction between storylines and lots of politics and military work, 'Shield of Lies' has absolutely no inter-story interaction.  The 'Leia' storyline is still good (unless you thinkg Ewoks beating up stormies is cool) but doesn't get enough attention.  The Battle of Doornik-319 is the best part of the book by far, and even then there are far better parts elsewhere in other books.  It's hard to say if I reccomend the book or not, alas.  2/3 of it are a waste, but the other 1/3 is worth reading and connects well with the rest of the series.  Decide for yourself after reading the 'Leia' segments of 'Before the Storm' if its worth the money.	2001-11-11
US	42629613	R2WJVN5KDUUAQS	156971410X	229980756	Star Wars-Crimson Empire: Council of Blood, Volume 2	Books	1	5	6	N	N	They screwed up in the transistion	I'm afraid the makers of CE botched their attempt to go from a simply, direct revenge-type story to a complex tale of woven intrigue.  The art, while still somewhat cinematic in stlye, suffers from highly unstable character depictions and cartoony inconsistencies.  The change of Sinn's character and appearance is equally as annoying.  While she was quite a bother in the original, its even more bothersome when they switch character personalities and appearance.<br />As for the story, Mastadge's title puts it well.  Way too much.  Masters of intrigue and complex plots like Stackpole and Zahn should stake their claim as such, as other writers' attempts at such tales are consistently going astray.  Carivus is an annoying, bloated dolt, and my interest in Nom Anor dropped about the same time NJO began coming out and butchering 'Star Wars'.<br />And the Council.  While some of the talks seemed to be only well-done examples of intrigue in the whole bloody thing, I still found that it was overdone at times.  And why the aliens?  I can understand a move toward a more inclusive Empire, but why add Whiphids, Givin, Defel, and other such races that have no real status in the overall galactic community?  If they were going to add alien reps they would have at least added ones from species that had actual power in galactic affairs.<br />Oh, well.  If you want to learn a bit more about what happens after CE you can do so, but I can't say I reccomend the book.	2001-11-05
US	42629613	RIPDU6YKZ8UXN	0553471961	145330012	Star Wars: Planet of Twilight (AU Star Wars)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	A Phantasm of Real 'Star Wars'	This is a good example of why I like the Empire -v- Republic storyline.  For one thing, the idea of a potent plague is laughable in the SW universe.  In addition to that, Hambly puts in various absurdities that can only be expl;ained by a desire to oust Anderon's 'Darksaber' for the title of 'most ridiculous SW novel'.  Sentient crystals?  A mutated bug that looks human? A dueling Jedi Hutt?  I've always hated the idea of giving a tangible nature to the Force, whether they be in the form of Midichlorians of Force-enhancing minerals.  Absurb.  The Empire -v- Republic themes, whle possibly repetitive, offer infinite possibilites that delve in philosophical and dramatical depths via the all-encompasing classic tale of upheaval and revolution.  This....  I don't know what the bloody sithspawn this is, but it's no dramatic, class, powerful upheaval.<br />And to make matters worse, after Luke's big quest for Callista all he gets is a simple plassing glance and they both go away to get ready for Galactic Menace #3221110 or #14407, depending on who you're talking about.  Very disappointing even for one such as myself that wondered often if Zahn would have to physically go over to these SW author's home and shove the last scene of 'The Last Command' in front of their faces.  (In the end he obviously had to just write Luke and Mars together himself.)	2001-11-05
US	42629613	R25ELD2Q1IBN77	0375419357	87344379	Star by Star (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 9)	Books	1	22	30	N	N	&quot;There's nothing you can do when you're the next in line...&quot;	The above lyric from Genesis's 'Domino' seems a bit too apt for this series. One of the best characters in the series,a legend among SW fiction, is killed off, nullifying some of the best buildup in the series and cutting its promise short. So many people have died, and for what? Because the authors can't find any other way rto make a good story or even create atmosphere. And that is the most dark and frightening thing about what has become the world of 'Star Wars' novels.<br />Denning does a good job with the numerous battles and stories, although the whole idea of mutating vornskyrs sounds very forced and just about as absurb as a lot of the other brainless blabber in the series. Denning's a good writer, I'll admit, but at the same time 'Star by Star' plunges into the depths of terrible plotting.<br />The infamous death is the worst of the series- now we have a well-known character who's been one of the most important in the series who is abruptly killed off. My question: Why? It seems the only way these NJO writers can create a good story is by killing off a major character or decimating some planet. And that's the real tradgedy. Must the SW universe suffer because its writers can't come up with anything original? There are other ways to create drama than killing off people. It especially bothers me that now Greg Keyes' books and the whole death of Chewie now seem to be pointless. Why add that in if the main character is going to be killed?<br />Furthermore, in 'Star by Star' the enemies just seem faceless and prohibit the possibility of anything deep and philosohpical coming out of the conflict, like in Stackpole's latter X-wing comics. Those were thinking man's books. These are books where you fear for your favorite character's lives every time you turn the page and pray they'll make it to the next. It's a sorry state of affairs if they have to do that for every single book. There's nothing wrong with killing off characters, but something is wrong when you waste their lives and kill them off uselessly. Io took the deaths of Chewie and my beloved Elegos in stride, but now it seems Chewie died for nothing except to create a dark atmosphere that the authors originally couldn't make on their own. Furthermore, the only way they can make these books 'dark' is by killing off people. It's a terrible writer's crutch. Look at some of the segments of Stackpole's 'Mandatory Retirement', especially those on the ground on Ciutric. That's darkness, not because a Rogue dies, but because of the feeling of despair, helplessness, and the ideological clahes that bring out the hypocriscy that plagues both the Rebels and the Empire. Where's that in NJO?  Where's the depth?  While one may say this war is better because it's one more driven, more fierce, and more 'dark', it also has far less depth.  In a political war one can examine to motivations and thought of each and every person involed, as was done in things like 'The Making of Baron Fel'.  Here it's just people fighting to survive against a faceless enemy devoid of any signs of good characterization whose only motivation for their deeds is fanaticism, and even that is presented vaugely.  The Vong are bad... because they're bad.  The Empire was bad because it demonstrated hypocricy and bigotry and incurred a lust for power that destroyed it from the inside.  Such elegances are lost in NJO.  A good author could make Imperials human.  Here nothing can make the vong anything more than mean, cardboard baddies who kill things because Yun Yammka said so.<br />All I can say is that my interest in 'Star Wars' is rapidly declining, and I'll most likely only keep up with the NJO series through online plot summaries. I've been a huge fan of the Bantham boooks and an expert on many levels of SW. But now it's all falling apart. I'd rather had a tale of revolution and uprising than a bunch of repetitive stories about extragalactic freaks hacking people just to move the story along. Feel free to continue reading NJO series, of course. But this is the most flagrant example yet of why my faith in Lucasfilm and the NJO series is lost, and why this is one once-devout 'Star Wars' fan who is no longer so.	2001-11-03
US	42629613	R1P1GSUJG5Z4TX	1569715394	290912230	Star Wars - Jedi Council: Acts of War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Enjoyable Romp	'Acts of War' is by no means the best or deepest SW comic out there, but it's still quite entertaining.  After all, what's cooler than lots of Jedi slicing up even more big awkward lizards nonstop?  Well, probably quite a bit of stuff, but at least here they add in a lot of daring rescues, escapes, and other related stuff.<br />First off, the art.  Yes, it is cartoony at times, but this isn't the most dramatic SW comic either.  In my opinion its easy to get used to and suits the action-packed story.  Secondly, there's always a story.  It's pretty well-crafter and gives some background to the world of Yinchorr from Stradley's 'Crimson Empire' comics.  It has a very fast pace, pausing only to move bits of story along in between massive Jedi -v- Yinchorri batles.  There's a large cast that can take a while to get used to, so it's best to pay attention rather than notice some character right as they get impaled by numerous Yinchorri spears, as did one Jedi whom I will not name.  There's also a reasonable amount of detail to the plot that helps add a sense of mystery and surprise.  I must admit that I found the ending a bit anti-climactic, but after I went over it a few times I came away a bit more satisfied.<br />Simply put, this is a fun, enjoyable ride in and out of some nice battles.  It's not going to win any awards but it's still and nice action-packed adventure.	2001-10-23
US	42629613	R36MA03OQZOTOE	1569710937	264744824	Escape to Hoth  (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Mixed Package	Here is probably one of the most unique SW comics.  The reformatted serial comic strip from the days of yore has a feel all its own, which can be both good and bad.  nonetheless, it throughout contains an adventurous Star Wars-type feel.  The art has a very comic-strip-serial quality too it and fails to acheive a dynamic sense like many other comics, despite the reformatting.  I've also noticed that Leia looks nothing like Carrie Fisher for some odd reason that presently eludes me.  The massive collection feautures a long line of stories ranging from high-quality to utter blabber.  The actual evacuation from Hoth and its subsequent excape is the real gem of the collection, featuring a sense of drama and suspense rarely seen in any Star Wars story.  It also helps greatly to fill in the story of the war between ANH and ESB.<br />It's not in any means the best SW comic out there, but its a reasonably enjoyable and interesting series of adventures highlightesdby an excellent 1st 1/3.	2001-10-21
US	42629613	R2KY68VAC71E5A	1569714150	205643494	Star Wars: Vader's Quest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not the Expected	I'll say this here and now.  If you're looking for a story that dives deep into Vader's past, examines various aspects of the Dark Lord, and features a riveting storyline packed with Darth Vader at his best...  You're going to be disappointed.  In my opinion they really should have advertised this book differently.  Yeah, Vader is an important character and all, which is rare in SW lit, but you don't really get any big revelations.<br />It is quite different from your standard SW tale, though.  Take, for example, Tom Vietch's 'Dark Empire' or Stackpole 'In the Empire's Service.'  (I stress that excellence of the latter.)  In any case, the story and art are quite different from these two more dark, rugged tales.  The story has a fiar degree of humor, as well as very very nice, dramatic moments.  The scene at the end in particular is classic, most notably for the shot of Vader standing at the hangar entrance in the moonlight with two rows ofd identical troopers behind him.  Very nice and probably the best art moment in the book.  The art itself is a bit of a mix.  While it lacks detail and possesses a somewhat cartoonish quality, it also has a nice cinematic quality.  The coloring is also quite effective.  Overall its a very different story than the afformentioned, very series tales.  The story is by no means very heavy or deep, but at the same time it's interesting to see Luke still a young naive farmboy instead of the boring, perfect old Jedi he turns into later on.<br />The gem of this comic has to be the story of Jal.  It helpes to add a feel of realism about the Rebellion and defines its early movement fairly well.  Once again, a different face instead of a tired old one is always welcome.<br />For die-hard Vader fans, I reccomend that you resist the urge and consider skipping this one.  But for fans of a different tale that goes into some depth about the Imperial-Rebel differences, give it a shot.  It's not an excellant comic, but it remains steady throughout.If you want a nice change from the norm than I reccomend this book.  However, if you want to see some high-quality Macan scripting I reccomend 'X-wing Rogue Squadron: The Phantom Affair' and indeed the rest of Stackpole's exceptional series.	2001-10-21
US	42629613	RPNAQUAK46AXP	0553574159	611556484	The Paradise Snare (Star Wars, The Han Solo Trilogy #1) (Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A High-Quality Production	While 'Paradise Snare' fails to hold its own against the other two books of the series, it remains a very enjoyable and good look into the early life of everyone's favorite rogue.  It sets the stage very nicely for the following books, despite the notable gap in time and events between 'Paradise Snare' and 'The Hutt Gambit'.  While characters such as Fett, Lando, Salla, Mako, and Jarik are yet to enter Han's life, crucuail original cast members like Muurgh and Bria get their very interesting starts here.<br />As with the rest of the trilogy, this book deals greatly with the dirty side of the galaxy, far from the gallant battles between Rebel and Imperial.  Here we get spice (drug) wars, slavery, cults, and all of that stuff that lurks in the shadows.  Insight into the Hutts and their cousin species, t'landa Til, is highly interesting and helps add a sense of realism and history to both the books and the SW universe overall.  The next two books only increase such above things, bringing about highly interesting situations that break the Rebel-Imperial mode that so many other novels resort to.<br />The book also sheds light on how Han was raised and other little aspects of his past that fit in perfectly with who he becomes.  Simply put, Crispin's series is wonderful.  It delves deep into facets of the SW universe never before explored and pieces together Han's life with amazing skill and detail.  I very highly reccomend this book and the next two books and applaud Crispin for a superb trilogy.	2001-10-20
US	42629613	R2LQ3AGAHR2JJU	0553574167	829224834	The Hutt Gambit (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Vol. 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Superb 2nd Part to a Superb Trilogy	Kudos to A. C. Crispin for a superb trilogy that, in my opinion, ranks right up there with 'heavy-hitters' like Zahn and Stackpole's books.  An amazing feat has been accomplished in tying together dozens of tidbits of Han's life from numerous books and comics in one coherent, smooth, and effective storyline.  The book itself is interesting on its own, but its historical value is incredible.  Han's relationships with Lando, Boba Fett, Jabba, Shug Ninx, Salla Zend, Mako Spince, and others are given vibrant backgrounds and realistic beginnings.  Granted, some stuff from the Academy would be nice, but I'm sure Lucas wanted it restricted.  Heck, they even worked around it in the 'Chewbacca' comic.  And besides, Han in the Empire would have nothing to do with the rest of the story.  This is about Han picking himself up after being kicked out of the Empire and forming a new life on Nar Shaddaa.<br />Ah, the slums of the galaxy.  Never before has the Galactic underworld been so vividly pictures.  Black Sun from Steve Perry's 'Shadows' hardly seemed like an underground criminal syndicate.  More like a mini-Empire that worked with the real one.  Here we have the dirt of it all- Hutts, gang wars, and all of that nice stuff.  Truly impressive and interesting.  This is a side of Star Wars never before depicted.  The Empire still is there, of course, and we get the great, dramatic Battle of Nar Shaddaa.  The use of Baron Fel directly ties into Stackpole's 'The Making of Baron Fel', which is also a very nice touch.  See what you people miss when you read only the books?<br />The huge, varied cast is prefectly done and balanced.  All of the people from Nar Shadda in 'Dark Empire' get their backgrounds adeptly crafted here, and a huge amount of Han's life is revealed to us.  Simply put, this is a highly, highly reccomended book for fans of Han Solo and the numerous books which this ties into.	2001-10-19
US	42629613	R3RFAN3879P462	0553574175	259159170	Rebel Dawn (Star Wars: The Han Solo Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The End and the Beginning	'Rebel Dawn' is another truly exceptional SW novel that carries the life of Han Solo right up the meeting at Chalumn's Cantina with a certain old man and farmboy.  To say that 'Rebel Dawn' is a sort of a hsityor book is in many ways true, as it offers glimpses to the early days of the rebellion.  Not that that's bad, at least not for me.  I am a huge history buff, after all.<br />Everything is wrapped up here, essentially.  How Han gets Jabba on his case, Han's falling out with Lando, Bria's fate...  Very, very nice and well-crafted so that everything fits together as one.  Admittedly it's a rather sad book once you get to the end, but it accuarely paints Han's life and sets up his new life beautifully.  Like 'Hutt Gambit', this book creates an incredible view into the 'other side' of Star Wars, far from the gallant dogfights above the Death Star and heroism of Leia and Dodonna.  Here the Rebels are still struggling, and instead of a romantic space duel we get a ground invasion on the mudhole known as Ylesia.  And you also het the tensions between the two Hutt clans at their height.  Nothing like wars between crime syndicates, after all.  Durga's relationship with Black sun also helped set up 'Darksaber', adding a little bit of background and credibility to Anderson's hopelessly absurd novel.  Han's relationship with Bria was also quite interesting to watch, and its ending is certainly riveting.  The final scene with Bria, in my opinion, goes down as one of the best all-time Star Wars scenes and fully captures the devotion of the early Rebel troops as they fought against all odds for a seemingly impossible goal.  I must admit that I found the interlude where Biran Daley's novels go chronologically somewhat awkward, partially because I've never read Daley's novels and simply pieces bits and pieces of information about them together from various sources.  Still, this is just a minor flaw in on overwhelmingly superb book.<br />If for whatever reason you don't want to read everyting above, I'll simplify it here.  'Rebel Dawn' is an incredible piece of Star Wars history that adds background and depth to both Han Solo's life and the SW galaxy itself.  Highly, highly reccomended.	2001-10-19
US	42629613	RRSNTKN87G1W5	0553574183	953089724	Starfighters of Adumar (Star Wars: X-Wing #9)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Funniest SW Book Ever	Ah, the sweet smell of space combat and politics mixed with witty banter.  While this is by no means the best SW book ever written, it's certainly a very enjoyable read.  I've been a big fan of the X-wing series and both Stackpole and Allston.  The book starts off on a very nice note: Wedge breaks up with Qwi.  Ahh....  Allston must have joined the Stackpole-Zahn pact to rid the world of SW novels from all of the terrible relartionships Anderson thought up in his books.<br />Anyhoo, you get a story that isn't quite the typical sort.  Wedge, Tycho, Hobbie, and Janson are sent on a diplomatic mission to get the world of Adumar to join in the now-growing Republic.  But there is also the Empire, which remains a visible galactic power.  It's nice to see Turr Phennir from Stackpole's excellant comic 'In the Empire's Service.'  Alas, it would have been nice to have seen him more.  In any case, you get some nice perspective on rthe Empire-Republic situation.  Also, Wedge gets to see Iella again and they expand that relationship quite well. (Part of the Zahn-Stackpole-Allston pact, I assume.)  The story, while not flawless, is nice and entertaining throughout.<br />And, of course, you get the humor.  This book certainly proves that Star Wars can create humor beyond juevenille antics such as Jar Jar Bink stepping in manure.  I've heard the four Rogues, especially Wes and Hobbie, compared to the Three Stooges. (Or in this case, Two Stooges...  or four Stooges.)  Whatever the case, there's loads of witty verbal slapstick, so to speak.<br />Overall, 'Starfighters of Adumar' is a brisk, entertaining read with a nice mix of plot and humor.  Reccomended.	2001-10-18
US	42629613	RN0D9ABOWG33V	1569715424	554860429	Star Wars: Darth Maul	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Both ends of the spectrum.......	Here we have a combination of gorgeous art and almost no story whatsoever.  Essentially, it's Darth Maul killing Black Sun and other people.  ...And that's about it.<br />There's not a whole lot of dialogue here, and a simple story as well.  So it's hard to say much about Marz's writing because there's so little of it.  Jan Duursema's art really made this book, though, with gorgeous and complex renditions of the virtually innumerable 'Maul slaughtering tons o' thugs' scenes.  Nonetheless, most of the battles end up pretty boring in the end and it gets repetitious pretty fast.  Some stuff is pretty cool, like a Dug Vigo with a monacle and the Nightsister bodyguard.  Still, even those things have a bit of a tacked-on effect to them in an attempt to stave away the monotany of senseless slaughter.<br />In the end, if you want to see Darth Maul kicking the living [expletive] out of a lot of people, then this is for you.  It offers some insight into the character himself, but not a whole lot.  This is Darth Maul engaging and killing countless foes at once.  Repeated many times.  I can't say I reccomend it, although it certainly is nice eye candy.  If you want an Episode I-era comic with an actually good plot (heck, a plot period) check out Tim Truman's 'Outlander'.	2001-09-08
US	42629613	R3IB5E327SUGVK	1569710732	924898298	Dark Empire (Star Wars)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	For both better and for worse....	No matter what I or anyone else thinks about DE, I must give it credit: Without it, the Star Wars comic franchise would not exist.  And for this Star Wars fans indeed do need to be grateful to Tom Vietch.<br />Onto the book itself.  It's somewhat of a mix, really.  The story, writing, and so forth is pretty good on its own, althugh not stellar.  Cam Kennedy's art is, as always... um... unique.  The coloring can be dramatic at some times and annoying during others.  Alas, the people don't tend to look all that much like their original selves and I, for one, find it to be a bit distracting.  I must say, though, that Kenndey does thrilling, complex battle scenes the likes of which have not even been matched by the likes of John Nadeau.  The Battle of Mon Calamari looks glorious, as does the two-page spread for the warzone on Coruscant.<br />However, my qualms with the DE series is much like those I have with the New Jedi Order novel series.  In truth, it really does kind of tear away a lot of past significance.  Indeed, it pretty much knocks everything in past SW history down a notch to place it on its own pedestal.  And that, in my opinion, is just plain wrong.  The SW universe should be no means become a place where authors try to outdo eachother with their 'galactic menace of the month'.  Instead it should flow together, more like a history than an ongoing Saturday morning series.  The Palpatine cloning concept opens the pathways for numerous tired repetitions like DEII and Empire's End, a.k.a. DEIII.  The idea of Luke turning to the dark side is an interesting one, while the one that the Dark Side takes a physical toll os one that I, personally, like quite a bit.<br />So it's a mixed package.  An interesting story on its own, but when taken into context it does cause problems.  Still, the DE series is responsible for the rest of the SW comics, and without it we would not have excellant arcs like 'In the Empire's Service' and 'Mandatory Retirment'.  I can't really say I reccomend it, but feel free to give it a try.	2001-09-05
US	42629613	R232JJ03O1PLLJ	0553298046	1581781	Specter of the Past (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn #1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Timothy Zahn Strikes Back	A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away (1991, actally) one Timothy Zahn rejuivenated the Star Wars universe with 'Heir to the Empire'.  Upon finishing his epic Thrawn Trilogy, he got to sit back and watch the other writers have their shot at it.  Some hit their targets, others had their shots go wide.  And in some cases, very, very wide.  In any case, Zahn returns to finish what he started (in more ways than one) in his Hand of Thrawn duology.  And he has done well.<br />Its quite different from the Thrawn Trilogy, but that's okay.  It just shows off Zahn's talents more.  Now the Imps are but a remnant, still clinging onto the old ways.  At the same time, the Republic is now somewhat of a squawbling bunch.  It appear's Sate Pestage's prediction in 'Mandatory Retirement' rings true: <BR>&quot;Your republic will become and Empire soon enough.  It's all about power and how it changes people.  Your leaders will see to that and fall prey to it.&quot;<BR>In this case, though, I've found its done better than in, say, the New Jedi Order books.  Like most of the NJO series, in my opinion, they try to hard there to make the Republic's leaders a bunch of rambling idiots.  Here Zahn makes it a lot more realistic.  Gavrisom is not a 'good' character, nor is he an 'evil' or 'bad' character.  He's a mix, and that's better and far more realistic than either perfectly good or perfectly bad.  Still, the wrath of politics burns strong here, showing just how fragile the Republic can be.  It's also far ore realistic that something that could destroy such a powerful government would begin with a whimper, not a bang.<br />The overall storyline is good, and I must say it really does say something about Grand Admiral Thrawn when he can still effect the course of glactic history after he's been dead for 10 years.  His mythical status, though, just shows how perspectives change in time.  It also opens the door for scams like Disra's.  The Imps are overall done quite well, I think, and Pellaeon's is excellent.  The Hand of Thrawn duology has helped make him become one of the best all-time Imperial characters, in my opinion.<br />And, of course, you get classic characters like Leia, Luke, Han, Mara, and Karrde.  It's nice to see them going along, growing, changing, as so forth.  Obviously 'Specter of the Past' is meant to be taken as one with 'Vison of the Future', so I've reviewed it as such.  Highly reccomended.	2001-09-04
US	42629613	R3B2JOFWAWS8H5	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The End of an Era	Timothy Zahn finishes what he started in 1991 with 'Vision of the Future'.  Here ends the greatest chapter in the history of the the Star Wars galaxy, and it ends well.  Indeed, its all done in a way that's almost poetic, and one that will also be sorely missed.  Kudos to Zahn, Bantham, and everybody else for one great history.<br />Onto the book, then, shall we?  Zahn picks up right where 'Specter of the Past' left off.  The real highlight here is the whole Luke-Mara relationship that goes on through the whole novel.  While some would say the relationship wasn't romantic or anything, it wasn't really meant to be.  It was meant to be deeper than that, a sort of symbionce bound by the Force.  Indeed, they really do become one as time goes on and their experiences on Niruaun prove testament to that.  I also get the impression that Zahn decided to do it all himself, finally.  He sets up everything between Luke and Mara (look a the last scene of 'The Last Command', in the name of the Sith!) and Anderson and Hambly and the like screw everything up.  What a waste.  Can these people even take a hint?  I mean, Callista?  It's just mind-boggling.  Indeed, so are a lot of the relationships in the SW universe.  Anderson sets up ridiculous relationships like Winter-Ackbar(!?!) and Wedge-Qui Xux.  I'm guessing Stackpole and Zahn formed a pact so that all of the relationships Stackpole made in his books and comics (like Tycho-Winter and Wedge-Iella) are how it ends up in the end.  A very good thing, too.  Tycho and Winter makes a lot more sense than Winter and Ackbar.<br />And Zahn also tips his cap to Stackpole by providing us with a look into Baron Fel and what he's been doing all these years.  Once more, it just goes to show the power of good characters like Thrawn and Fel.  And its also nice to see how much info we get into Thrawn and his people, who are finally named here.  their culture is explained here and a bit more in Stackpole's 'Ruin'.  And hey, who says a guy who's been dead for 10 years can't be the most important figure in the whole book?  Great info for fans of Thrawn and Baron Fel such as myself.<br />And, of course, you get more Han, Leia, Wedge, Corran, ect. action.  It's all good, and Zahn continues to depict the Republic and its situation very realistically.  the same is said for the Empire and its logical progression as time goes on and its power wanes.  Pellaeon is good here again, as are Disra, Tierce, and even Flim.  The scene on the bridge of Dorja's vessel towards the end is classic.<br />And the war ends.  I'd just point that out.  The Empire and Republic come to terms, thus ending a chapter in the history of Star Wars.  I wouldn't have had it end any other way and be ended by any other person.  Sadly, Del Rey's New Jedi Order series is just a phantom of the magnificent Bantham novels and Dark Horse comics like the 'X-wing Rogue Squadron' series.  The sense of history is now gone, and it is really a shame.  People like Zahn, Stackpole, and Allston did magnificent jobs creating a historical sense behind the SW universe, one that is really being ripped apart by the NJO series.  Still, they can only be applauded for their works.<br />Kudos to Zahn, Stackpole, Allston, and the other great authors who made the world of Star Wars so wonderful.  It is something that will be very sorely missed in the future, but thanks for the ride whatever the case.  May the Force be with you all.	2001-09-04
US	42629613	R2QRZ1MGOZ6UQR	1569713782	213980433	Star Wars: The Last Command	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Best of the Thrawn Trilogy Adaptations	The comic adaptations of 'Heir to the Empire' and 'Dark Force Rising' tackled the problem of adapting a 400-page novel into a 160-page comic quite well, and 'The Last Command' does it better than even those two.  While the adaptations does run into inevitale problems (like in explaining Delta Source) Baron has done a truly admirable job.<br />First off, the art.  The late Eddie Buikovic's second and last art job in the world of SW comics is even better than his one with 'The Phantom Affair'.  The detail is incredibly, with gorgeous views of Coruscant, Mount Tantiss, and even Hijarna.  The characters are all done very well, also.  The movie cast looks just like they did on the screen and original characters like Pellaeon, Mara, Karrde, Ferrier, and so forth are done better here than in the other two adaptations.  The one qualm I have with the art is that the coloring switched halfway through.  Pamela Rambo's watercolor-type style worked better in the 'Dark Force Rising' adaptation, but its just doesn't fit well with Buikovic's style.  Thankfully, the second half is done by Dan Brown, whose style resembles 'The Phantom Affair's masterful colorist, Dave Nestelle.<br />My one qualm with the art is that it's not always faithful to the 'real' SW universe.  Craft like Chariot LAVs, the Golan IIIs at Bilbringi, and Ferrier's DP20 gunship don't look a thing like they 'actually' do.  I'm willing to overlook it, still, because Buikovic's art made the adaptation of 'The Last Command'<br />That said, its a very well done adaptation that retains the spirit of the novel itself and created a gorgeous, almost cinematic, feel to it as well.  Highly reccomended.	2001-09-02
US	42629613	R2542AOUCN6HCB	0553568019	891099578	Rogue Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Ah........... The sweet smell of burnt TIEs in the morning	This is Stackpole's 1st SW novel, and like all of his other works, it's not one meant for a non-SW fan or even a semi-SW fan in any sense. You have to know stuff going into this, because Stackpole expects you to know what a Lancer Frigate is or what 'klick' means and the what an Interdictor Cruiser is.<br />The X-wing series is always one I've considered to be one of the most unique in the world of SW lit. Almost gone from it are swashbuckling Jedi and fancy Force powers. This and the latter half of the X-wing comic series are as close as it gets to a war story in the SW universe. That said, its not for everyone. But that's okay.<br />I like the concept of a wide variety of characters that get developed piece by piece over time while one or two take center stage. This has been the hallmark of the X-wing books and comics and Stackpole does it well. I tend to like the comics more, but they're both highly reccomended and reading one media makes it imperative to read the other.<br />Onto this book. It's nice to see a lot of the Rogues like Corran and Ooryl, (my favorite supporting Rogue in the series) plus interesting people like Mirax. Wedge is done well and its nice to see him fleshed out from the movies. At the same time, I found Tycho and General Salm to be a bit off from how they were in the comics. Of course, Tycho is just getting out of a horrif Imperial prison right now and Salm's a bit wary about that. Still, you can't hold it against this book, as the comics came afterwards.<br />The battles are done well, too, as long as you know what you're talking about. And TIE pilots are not only far less experienced than the Rogues, but X-wings have shields, more powerful laser cannons, and projectile weapons. TIEs and X-wing are two completely different craft reflecting the philosophy of their makers. TIEs and quantity over quality and X-wings vice versa. and war in the SW universe is utterly different from that on Earth. Comparing F-14s to X-wings is like comparing anF-14 to a Swordfish biplane- they're meant for very different types of combat.<br />So its highly reccomended for SW fans, particularly of the technological aspects. Very good series overall, as are the excellant X-wing comics.	2001-09-02
US	42629613	R2US36RNIUXNI3	1569711194	264838380	Dark Empire II (Star Wars)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Why Did Vietch Have to Push It?	Dark Empire I wasn't too bad, although the continual pushing of doom and gloom, like that in the New Jedi Order novels, gets very tiresome very fast.  Well, they took the repetitiveness to a whole new level with DEII.<br />Now Palpatine's back, even after Luke slashed up all his clones in DEI.  And he's got another superweapon, the Galaxy Gun.  The idea itself would be a great one, if not for one fact: the weapon stays in orbit over Byss, which is in the Deep Core.  Trying to hit a single target with a straight shot across the galaxy is hard enough, but here they're doing it by somehow shooting it through a space so congested by gasses and stars that manned spacecraft find it almost impenitrable.  So the idea goes down the tubes.<br />The highly controversial Kennedy art is a mixed course.  The coloring can set the mood at times, but I'd still take Nestelle any day.  His people are okay, but not very Star Wars-ish.  That said, though, he draws good machinery and the ground battle on Byss was superb.  Indeed, the large-scale ground battles on Byss and New Alderaan were the high points of DEII.<br />Vietch's story is okay, but when the past is accounted for it gets tiresome.  DEI was wrapped up nicely, even after it broke the nicely-wrapped-up ending of RotJ apart.  Then Vietch has to throw yet another clone into the mix and downsize the importance of everything again.  In a lot of ways, this is like the New Jedi Order series.  Can the people in the Republic who fought for years and years ever get a break?  Nobody is that bloody selfless.  At least give them a little time to relax before Galactic Menace #72686123 comes and bears it ugly head.	2001-09-02
US	42629613	RX8HH3ASYU2XV	1569714649	792536068	Star Wars: Union	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hmmm.............	Not a bad book, although it kind of varies depending on your taste regarding SW.  If you like lots of action and are not well-versed in the books and comics, do not buy the book.  Period.  You won't know who the bloody hell most of the people are and won't enjoy the book at all.<br />Stackpole's last hurrah in the world of SW comics is one meant for diehard fans, especially of his and Zahn's books.  The art is good and the plot is overall what Stackpole siad it would be in his interview with 'Star Wars Insider': a family albumn.  If you know a lot about Mirax, Corran, Iella, Tycho, Kam, Booster, and all of the others, read the book to see some nice interaction and the like.<br />The problem lies with the Imperials.  The scenes start out very ominous, which is a good touch in my opinion.  Then they get a bit silly at times.  I should point out, though, that they first went after the dress to get close enough to Mara to kill her.  A lot of people including myself thought they were idiots going aftr a piece of clothing.  The second time they were trying to delay the wedding as part of the dirstaction.  Just to clear that up.  The climax falls on its face, though,  Simplt put, it was just too easy.<br />The art is great.  Very realistic, cinematic, and overall quite interesting.  Like the rest of the book, it tends to be somewhat subjective, but its good nonetheless.<br />Overall, this is a book for diehard SW fans, those who like a lot of the characters from the books and comics.  If you don't don't get the book.  You'll get a headache after a while.  It's not Stackpole's best, though.  The world of SW comics has been fortunate enough to be graced by the XWRS comics 'In the Empire's Service' &amp; 'Mandatory Retirment'.  Both are masterpieces of SW literature.  'Union', alas, is not.  If you want good Stackpole comics, read those.  Read 'Union' as a family albumn for the devout SW fan.	2001-09-02
US	42629613	R28P6NTYXWOUEJ	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Overall a Good Book	I find myself in an odd situation.  I'm a very big Stackpole fan and this is Part I of his last hurrah in the world of Star Wars novels.  At the same time, I am by no means a fan of the NJO series. (I whined about it in my 'Vector Prime' review.  I'm not going to do so again.)<br />In any case, its a pretty good book.  Stackpole always has been a Civil War-era writer (the Galactic Civil War, I should specify) and he's not quite up to form in the NJO series, although I expecting that.  Nonetheless, its a reasonably good book and its nice to see good ol' Corran Horn at work.  Jaina joining Rogue Squadron was an interesting twist, although I'll still take the Rogue Squadron of old any day. (The X-wing books and comics)  The whole refugee element indeed makes sense and the prologue is a nice setup for the main plotline of 'Dark Tide II: Ruin'.<br />The state of the Jedi is still pretty much as it was, and Ganner, one of Kyp's followers, is the kind of chap you wish would get sliced across the face by an amphistaff. (Which does happen in 'Ruin', but I won't get into that.)  In any case, the Corran/Ganner/scientists at Bimmiel interaction is pretty good.  Ganner does show some good sides in the end, a thing that carrier over to 'Ruin'.<br />I'm still not fond of the ooglith masquer and the idea thereof, as it always sounded incredibly cheezy to me.  It's used less here, and continued to decline as the series wears on.  A good thing, in my opinion.  The battles are also pretty good and the ending once mores comes up to a draw-like state. (Which gets a bit annoying as it repeats book after book.  Why can't either side ever really win?)<br />That said, I'd also like to bring up one point: How stupid can the Vong be?  They send one wave and let that get destroyed at the end of 'Vector Prime'.  Then what do they do?  Send another wave to plow through territories until they get destroyed.  This can be explained to an extent by the Yuuzhan Vong culture, but I just wish they'd add a bit of tactical knowledge to these guys instead of having them fling themselves at the Republic like kamikaze fighters.<br />Reccomended overall, and a slight turn for the better after 'Vector Prime'.	2001-09-01
US	42629613	R2BTW0D98Z9Q1Y	156971407X	865545581	Star Wars - Boba Fett: Enemy of the Empire	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Fun Read	The world of 'Star Wars' comics has been able to achieve heights of drama in expeceptional works such as 'In the Empire's Service', 'Outlander', and 'Mandatory Retirement.' This is not anywhere near that list. Then again, its not supposed to be.<BR>It's for entertainment value, plain and simple. The art and writing are somewhat silly while still having an elemnt of drama and reality to them. John Nadeau of the XWRS fame has a very different art style here, one far less dramatic and far more silly.<BR>Then end is good, especially regarding the fight between Fett and Vader and the fate of the Pessimists. (I love irony.) Overall, while its by no means the best SW comics out there, its a fun, quick read and reccomended as such.	2001-09-01
US	42629613	R1OTE0ICUVBVA	1569714487	854153315	Star Wars: Prelude to Rebellion	Books	3	3	5	N	N	The New Face of 'Star Wars' comics	I'll start out by saying I was a huge fan of Stackpole's ongoing 'X-wing Rogue Squadron' comic series and I found the fact that it was cancelled due to low sales to be shameful.  And by no means am I a fan of the New Jedi Order series, especially its beginnings.  So you can see why I wasn't quite going into this with an open attitude.<br />In any case, this start to the new ongoing SW series its obviously different than the XWRS one.  I'm pretty sure its the first Episode-I era comic, and it holds its own.  It's a small-scale story, wich I tend to like, ostly based off of the planet Cerea.  Its a pretty good glimpse into Ki Adi Mundi and makes him into more than a coneheaded freak.  I was familiar with Strnad from the XWRS comics, and the overall writing is the same as it was in his arc there- good but not great.  The art is a bit too jerky for my tastes, but it, too, holds it own overall.<br />One flaw I have here is that so much of it is action.  The new ongoing series based on the Jedi are very different from the XWRS series in this aspect.  In here you get whole pages devoted to single shots, whereas in XWRS they litereally crammed in everything they could to make it all work out and move along numerous storylines and characters.<br />The Jabba-Ephant Mon connection is pretty good also, and helps set up for the next piece of the Ongoing series.  The main reason to read 'Prelude to Rebellion' would be to set up Ki Adi Mundi for his roles and learn more about what was once a background character. (One of the things I really do love about 'Star Wars.')  The next installment, 'Outlander' is very good, so I reccomend this as a prelude to that.  Not anywhere near the quality of the XWRS series, buts it just starting out.  'Outlander' points it in the right direction.	2001-09-01
US	42629613	R5RLM9IBYATMN	0345428641	501288398	Edge of Victory 1:  Conquest (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	About Bloody Time	For once we actually get a three-dimensional view of the Vong, not the grotesque, disgusting zealots they all have been thus far. The talk in the prologue of a Jeedai Heresy was music to my ears. (...) But in the Civil War-era stories, you get more side plotlines, interesting Imperial chracters like Baron Fel, and so forth. Now we actually get some interesting Vong. (...)<BR>That said, the book itself is pretty good, too, and is probably my favorite in the series thus far. It's mostly a 'side story'-type book, which is just fine with me. It mostly about Anakin and Tahiri, and while I never read the Junior Jedi Knights books, I caught on pretty quickly. The writing is interesting, as its more of a fanfic-style writing rather than a epic, masterpiece-producing nolvelist-type style. Fine by me as well. The more variety in this series the better.<BR>A few notes. First off, Dorsk 82 dies in the first scene. Not really a spoiler. I can understand motivations for doing so, but its still a bit remniscent of the 'let's kill off a preesablished character in every book to make it more dramatic' planning that I so very much abhor. Of course, after reading 'Leviathan', I was dying for someone to shot the annoying little whiner. Another preestablished Jedi dies too, but I'll keep this one anonymous. The Yavin system gets taken over by the Vong towards the beginning, and most of the book is on Yavin 4. Another touch of a side-story. I must wonder why the Vong took so long when they were passing right by Yavin on their way to the Core.<BR>One complaint I have is about the whole 'shaper' conept. This seems really cheesy to me, but it was handld reasonably well here. I just hope it doesn't become commonplace in the series.<BR>Overall, its a nice change of pace from the usual NJO books. Highly reccomended, especially for those like myself who've not been fond of the NJO books thus far. A 4-star book that's finally added something worthwhile to the series, earning it an extra star.<br/>Alas, with the addition of 'Star by Star' the whole book's development seems like a waste.  Looking back on it, it's quite possible that 'Conquest' will be the last good SW books I'll ever read.	2001-09-01
US	42629613	RAMSM3U1BU2G5	0345428609	902573050	Agents of Chaos I: Hero's Trial (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Its getting better	I didn't like the direction 'Vector Prime' started in, but the 'Dark Tide' duology helped remedy that to an extent.  It is done once more here, and we finally get back to good ol' Han.  It's a nice touch after the very depressing 'Ruin' to see one of the big heroes in action.<br />One flaw I've had with the previous books is how they skipped around every which way with their plotlines.  The Civil War-era stories often had centralized plots that focused on a certain situation, not the whole galactic face.  'Hero's Trial' is more of a focused work, by far the most in the series.  Han's quest is an interesting one, and the galactic situation is well done, too.<br />And the Republic actually wins a battle!  Throghout the seires they had tried to hard to mkae it seem dark that all the battles were incredibly bloody for both sides.  For once the Republic kicks some Yuuzhan Vong butt.  I also like the connections with the largely ignored 'Black Fleet Crisis' books.  Kudos to Luceno for finally tieing in elemnts from there and thus helping to validify the whole series.  The Vong defector and the Vergere elements are interesting and produce a tie-in with 'Rogue Planet' as well.  Overall its a good book, and highly reccomended for Han Solo fans.	2001-09-01
US	42629613	R3IDHMP79O9WP0	1569710953	361354850	Dark Lords of the Sith (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi, Volume Two)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Best of the Series	This is the Tales of the Jedi story arc at an early stage, and in my opinion its best.  The writing, while not great, is steady and constant.  The art by Chris Gosset also helped make the comic, and his prescence in the last issue is sorely missed.  The story is pretty good, especially for one that mishmeshes as much as this does.  They do form an interesting parallel nonetheless, one enhanced by Goesset's artwork.<br />As I said, this is probably the strongest of the TotJ series.  Its storyline is the best defined by far, and Gosset's art is very effective.  The follow-up is a bit dissapointing, as is the rest of the series in my opinion.  Still ,its a nice history lesson and a view into the ancient Jedi.  Reccomended.	2001-08-21
US	42629613	R23VHRB7IVWCKG	1569715157	21555524	Star Wars: Chewbacca	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Tribute to a Fallen Hero	One would wish a story dedicated to the bigwalking carpet could have come under happier circumstances, but, alas, Chewie is honored here a fallen hero.  the overall idea is interesting, and Macan's writing is good and steady.<br />The idea of having a montage of artists is btoh good and bad.  While it is interesting to have different art fit different story types, it can be a bit of a handful at times.<br />In any case, the stories are varying.  Some are humorous, some sad, some tributes to life rather than death.  The first story, by Chewie's wife, is decent with an overall nice art style. (Although the Trandoshans were drawn a bit off.)  Igor Kordney's art style worked well with the story narrated by Chewie's father, and the last line is one I always found to be the most powerful of the book.  Then you get some by Mala Mala from 'Vader's Quest' and how Chewie and Han first met.  Then you get into the main characters, like the Lando story, (comically told and drawn with a style that would fit this story only) a sad and weary Leia describing her relationship with Han and Chewie, and Luke's visions of the actual events.  Then you end with Han's story.  The two stories entailing Han were originally to be done by Eddie Buikovic of 'The Phantom Affair' fame, but unfortunately Eddie passed away in the middle of the project and had to be replaced.  The art style is okay, but it's no Eddie Buikovic.<br />So, in a way, this collection is a tribute to two fallen Star Wars icons, the mighty Chewbacca of fiction and the popular penciler Edvin Buikovic of reality.  A good read and an insight into what was behind the ol' walking carpet.	2001-08-21
US	42629613	R2M7BP8Z13D6VI	0312194331	464139995	After Man: A Zoology of the Future	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Imaginative, interesting, and logical	Very interesting stuff.  Dixon essentially took knowledge of evolution and brought it up a whole new level, giving a very interesting prediction of life 50 million years after man.<br />The main 'theme' of this, if you will, makes quite a bit of sense.  When Man went, he took a lot of the larger creatured with him.  Small, adaptable creatures survived and began to take their foothold, filling in the niches left by other animals.  thus, almost dog-like rats have replaced cats and dogs as the world's prime predators, and rabbucks have replaced deer and antelope.  And why not?  After all, the grimy cockroach has lived longer than any other species on Earth.<br />It truly is a very imaginative, vivid fantasy based on fact.  It is also a very interesting, original idea rooted in general evolutional knowledge and plate techtonics.  I picked up the book something like 5 years ago and decided to again a few days ago.  Still very captivating.<br />The ilustrations are also a definite high point.  Gorgeous full-page illustrations (like the two Falaxes chasing down the rabbuck) are superb.<br />Very interesting stuff.  I recall the introduction where the man writing it says that one may feel a bit of disappointment that some of these creatures don't exist.  well, I do know that I, for one, would love to find animals like these predatory rats and Pamthrets (kind of a cross between a weasel and a lion) on Earth today.  Fascinating book that I, for one, found hard to put down.	2001-08-20
US	42629613	R3A85E5M4F1T7R	1569711739	208638528	The Sith War (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A bit lackluster	First things first:<br />There are Sith, technically.  Just not a lot.  The war itself is mostly fought by the Tetans.  In any case, there is also a war.  but it, too, is small.  How it almost collapsed the Republic I don't know.  A large-scale war is the Galactic Civil War.  You know, the one it took 3 movies and dozens of books to tell?  That's a big fundamental flaw here, too.  It's an attempt to tell a whole war in one comic book.  Thus, the war seems a bit more like a collection of skirmishes and mishaps than an actual large-scale conflict.<br />Now onto the book.  The art seems a bit off, unfortunately, and the story is jerking back and forth.  Alas, it never really establishes a constructive rythm and just darts back and froth between this and that.  A few good scenes, but they're somewhat self-contained and are forced to create a rythm of their own.<br />Buy it if you so choose, most likely to conclude the Tales of the Jedi series.  I can't say I reccomend it, however.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R3PTJADEG2AXPR	0345428455	87344379	Vector Prime (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 1)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Excuse me for being nostalgic	So here we have the newly-unveiled future of Star Wars.  Well, I guess that I'm not too excited about this.  It's not just the book, its the concept of the series in general.  I'll go into that first before the book itself.<br />The previous books and comics fit together to create a cohesive tale of revolution.  It came together in pieces, bits and bits being filled in almost randomly.  Past and future came together bit by bit, rvelations of the past giving way to an already established future.  the authors were left alone to collaborate if they so choose, make their own tips of the hat to other stories, even tie in with them if they so chose.  Now, such things are no more.  The stories and general plot direction have been already mapped out and the storties are going in a linear fashion, utterly destroying the element of a complex story with almost innumerable pieces.  Also, the basis isn't that great either.  Instead of a story about revolution with the possibilites for moral, ethical, and person struggles to go along with space battles, (like in Stackpole's X-wing books and comics) here we have a bunch of wierd, grotesque alien invaders from anothergalaxy coming in to beat up everybody five years after the war.   In my mind, this pretty much ruins everything.  Here we have people who spent their whole lives fighting a war, testing their determination and minds.  Then they get five years before some mose baddies come in and try to kill them.  And these baddies aren't nearly as interesting as Imps.  Look at Imperials like Baron Fel- such a character is virtually inconceivable with Yuuzhan vong as villains.  Indeed, they are overall more two-dimensional foes.  It really does shatter a sense of history that was created by the previous array of books and comics.  I don't care about drama and adventure- the NJO series has truly broken a strong sense of reality that people like Zahn and Stackpole had helped define, instead replacing it with a Saturday morning serial-type string of adventures.  And, in an attempt to darken things, I guess the heads of the NJO series felt they had to destroy a world or two and kill off several predefined characters in every book or duology.<br />Now onto the book itself.  Once again, we have a good Fantasy writer transplanted into Sci-Fi.  I'm not a fan of such by any means.  I like the Sci-Fi elelment of Star Wars far more than the fantasy.  Indeed, his writing just doesn't fit.  Kyp Durron always seemed very heavily distorted.  In Anderson's Jedi Academy books, he was a bit of a confused kid with redeeming qualities and a good heart overall.  Here he's a brash, belligerent loudmouth.  The overall state of the Jedi is logical and believeable, but why did they have to ruin a perfectly fine character like Kyp to do it?<br />And I'm not going to go into the infamous death.  How that will work out remains to be seen in full.  Anytime a character is killed off, it only really works if it has a strong effect on the other characters.  In this case it does, but time will tell if Han becomes a stronger person because of it.  I can't blame people for being mad, but sometimes you have to deal with it.  Take, for example, Ibtisam from Stackpole X-wing Rogue Squdrom comics.  Perhaps the most unforgettable page in 'Mandatory Retirement' is Nrin Vakil, surrunded by fellow Rogues and Kapp Dendo's commandos, on his knees with his hands over his head in front of Ibtisam's covered body.  In the end, as 'Isard's Revenge' proves, good comes out of it for Nrin and he sees things through clearer eyes.  If the same will happen here, I do not know.  so I reserve my judegement.  i'm not fond of how this has initated a string of killings of previously defined characters, though.<br />So the book has problems.  Elements of adventure are there, yes, but I'll admit that I still don't like the overall direction the world of SW novels is heading.  Reccomended, I guess, because it does start off a whole new piece of the StarWars saga.  Oh, I'll continue to follow along, and feel free to do so yourself.  But I don't think anything will come along that will parallel the welll-crafted story of revolution and war that is being left behind.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R38B4303649N7V	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stackpole's Last Hurrah	This is Michael Stackpole's parting work as he leaves the world of Star Wars writing for an indefinite period of time. I've always been a big Stackpole fan and such, so here we go on one last journey.<BR>I'll start out by saying he ended on a sad note. I'll not say too much, but neither side really wins in 'Ruin', (a very apt title, by the way) another important character dies, (one of Stackpole's creation) and a fan favorite leaves the war a broken man.<BR>On to the writing and such. A good job on Stackpole's part, as I tend to think he liked writing Empire-era stories more. Whatever the case, he's made probably the best vong character yet. Whereas a lot of previous Vong were somewhat two-dimensional, Shedao Shai is a creature with a sense of honor (however twisted) and a somewhat rogue perspective regarding the Infidels. Overall, its pretty consistent, although bits and pieces seem a bit dulled or left out.<BR>The new face of the Imperials is a welcome and logical change, and the addition of the Chiss and Soontir Fel's son is a nice touch. It also gives fans a bit of information they've been waiting for regarding Fel and Wynsee Starflare and their fate together.<BR>In the end, its a good read, on the sad, ESB-type side. While its not the kind of book that will make you feel exhurberant after reading it, I do reccomend it, as it really does show the changing face of the galaxy.<BR>That was always what Stackpole did best. I still hope he'll be remembered for better works, (superb XWRS comics like 'In the Empire's Service' come to mind) but this is a pretty good way to end it. I'd hoped it to be on brighter terms, but I still thank Stackpole for the ride. New authors are coming in to write for a different Star Wars galaxy, and I guess it only makes sense for the new to write for the new.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R39U0DQNB840AE	0553579037	74800541	Isard's Revenge (Star Wars, X-Wing #8)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good book, but not the best of the series	First things first.  Read the X-wing comics.  I don't care what you think of the idea of comics in general, but half the plot is dependent on the X-wing comics.  At the very least read 'Mandatory Retirement'.  not only is it quite good, but its essentially the partner story to 'Isard's Revenge'.  If you ask yourself where the clone came from ,apy attention to the second-last scene in MR.  If you want Krennel's background, you'll get it in MR. (You'll also know why both Isard and the Republic hate him so, considering how he humiliated them both.) Like most of Stackpole's works, it simply can't be viewed as a single piece.  Its all history, and history doesn't get told in one book.<br />That said, its a pretty good book.  Nice combat, as usual.  An overall strong plot (if you know the background, of course.)  Nice to see good ol' Nrin, too.  He was one of  my favorite Rogues from the comics, and its nice to see him after his experiecnes in MR.  I liked the tie-in with 'The Last Command' on the Zahn novels, adding a bit more of that perspective I  love so much in the SW universe.  (The Bantham books anyway.  Check my 'Vector Prime' review if you want to see me moan about the NJO series.)  Nice to see little things like the Lusankya in there again. (Granted, an SSD isn't little, but that's beside the point.) Granted, the 'coming back from the dead' complaint has validity, although what's so bad about Janson or Asyr surviving?  Just because their ship gets his doesn't mean they get killed.  That's why they give X-wing pilots vac suits and ejection seats, after all.<br />In any case, its another logical piece of history, filling in the gaps, so to speak.  While it's not the best X-wing novel, its a good read nonetheless, as long as you know the background.  Provided the previous requierments are fulfilled, it is reccomended.  Even then, buy it for the simple pleasure of having Booster Terrik slam Borsk Fey'lyas up against the wall and yell at him.  That was a long time coming.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R6RAAV8B3KOC1	1569712298	537533288	The Golden Age of the Sith (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Hardly the best of Star Wars	I found this to be a mixed package.  Once again, I state that I've never been a Kevin J. Anderson fan.  His earlier novels and comics were pretty good, but after his first few the quality virtually vanished.<br />The story of Gav and Jori is a bit of a bore, and even though you're supposed to feel sympathetic toward these two, I just didn't feel it.  The Sith, meanwhile, turn out to be a bunch of squabling fools.  The only character who is really worth a dime is Naga Shadow.<br />The art by Carrasco was good, though.  His art style is well-fitted for the ancient 'Tales of the Jedi' series. (Any attempts to transplant him into 'modern' Star Wars, though, don't prove very fortunate, as 'Leviathan' proved.)  The Sith architecture and garb is well-done, with beautiful vistas and the Egyptian-style tombs and architecture.  Even the warships have a certain flair to them.<br />Overall, the art's about as good as the story is lackluster.  Insight into the ancient Sith is unfortunately little.  Flip through it, take a look at the nice, old-style art, and then I reccomend putting it back on the shelf.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R1TGVVTKHSA5Z7	1569715149	354227263	Star Wars: Outlander	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Possibly the best Episode I-era work yet	I found the first arc of the ongoing series to be rather average, but I can say that it's picked up here.  I'll also admit that I was a bit wary of this ongoing series.  The previous ongoing series, 'X-wing Rogue Squadron' has always been what I've considered some of the finest examples of Star Wars ever written.  I was very disappointed when the series ended, plus I liked the setting of that ongoing series more than this one.<br />That said, Truman gave me a pleasant surprise.  'Outlander' is a truly good read.  The switching of artists is a bit annoying, but in general it tends to flow fairly well.  The art styles are generally similar and most are quite good.  Truman is a good writer, and he proves it here.<br />It also provides an interesting look at the Tuskens and their lifestyle.  It presents them a truly intelligent race, with a strong foundation in honor and survival.  Truly not the barbarians that most of the non-Tusken characters view them to be.  The story is interesting as well, setting up the Hutt's operations on Tatooine well.  The intro scene itself, I thought, was quite well-done and provides and interesting base upon which the rest of the story develops.<br />I'll also say that I've never been too fond of Aurra Sing.  she always seemed to me like a transplanted Boba Fett made female.  It always seemed like they went a bit too far just to prove how bad she was. (Like the stupid scene with the Trandoshan in the cantina.)  Nonetheless, she does become a bit more interesting here.  Her narration of scenes is a very nice touch, too.<br />Kudos to Truman.  As I said, I was wary going into this series and story arc, but 'Outlander' proved me wrong.  Highly reccomended, especially for its insight into the Tuskens and the background of Tatooine.	2001-08-19
US	42629613	R1XPBCZ37K5I7G	1569713200	32394328	Fall of the Sith Empire (Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi)	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Isn't there supposed to be a point?	Once again, I state that I've never been an Anderson fan.  'Golden Age of the Sith' had some streong points, like a decent plot and beautiful art.  Alas, the art quality drops a bit here and the story goes into a nosedive.  There's almost no plot, save for a big battle.  Granted, it can be pretty visually complex and interesting, drawing back to an old style of combat, but overall its quite lacking.<br />I've gotten out a fine-toothed comb, but cannot find any cohesive story, unfortunately.  Read it only as a conclusion for 'Golden Age', but don't expect a lot.	2001-08-14
US	42629613	R27B4SESV9IZ1U	1569713111	521342801	Death, Lies, and Treachery (Star Wars: Boba Fett)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Meh.	Nothing to notable here.  The plot was overall quite shaky, with an inconsistent mix of humor and action.  Cam Kenndey's art is its usual.... uniqueness.  Like it or not, it will take some getting used to.<br />The stories are odd and at times rather ludicrous.  Overall, if you want some nice Boba Fett/bounty hunter action, look for 'Enemy of the Empire' and the 'Shadows of the Empire' comic.	2001-08-14
US	42629613	R1PT36PFWO6NAK	1569711836	449271981	Star Wars: Shadows Of The Empire (Star Wars (Dark Horse))	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not too bad	As with so much of Star Wars, you pretty much have to read the book it ties into to get it all.  The effort on LucasFilm's part was overall admirable, although the problem remains when you have large numbersof people who don't read both genres of comic book and novel.<br />The highlights here are the scenes with Boba Fett and the bounty hunters.  The main character material seems almost as filler tie-ins and even the art seems to lax a bit in those categories.<br />The pencils are good for the most part, while the coloring tends to vary.  I've not too fond of Cary Porter's coloring, as it tends to be unrealisting and not dramatic at times.  Once again, these flaws tend to be more visible in the 'main-character' plotline.<br />Buy it if you want some nice Bounty Hunter interaction and the like.	2001-08-14
US	42629613	RHH5UWULTTCGW	1569714010	37331384	Star Wars: Mara Jade - By the Emperor's Hand	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Good Book for those who take the time to read it	What's the problem with Mara Jade?  She's one of the best female characters in the SW universe!  Who would you prefer, Admiral Daala, who rose to a high rank in the Navy despite the fact she doesn't know the first thing about naval combat?  And just look at how Mara adapted- she did her job one way, with all of Palpatine's toys, then relearned her trade when those toys were robbed from her.  What else do you want?  An no brains?  Read that escape from Isard and tell me that.  You try to escape people who can control the air you breath.  Or is it you were too lazy to read all of the text?  But enough ranting and onto the review.<br />My appreciation of this book tended to grow the more I read over it.  As I pointed out in my ranting, you have to read all the text and get a grip on the situation to fully grasp it.  After reading through a lot of the scenes I've pretty mcuhed surmised that Zahn and Stackpole must have drawn out maps of a lot of the areas just to write the story, its so detailed.  Very good work there.<br />Zahn and Stackpole are also my favorite authors, I should point out, as compared to Anderson and his horribly botched attempts to write dialogue.  Whatever the case, if you bother to read it all and use your brain to some extent, you'll discover a lot of the scenes are very well written and mapped out.  Kudos to Zahn &amp; Stackpole for that.<br />The art is good, but I still find it to be a bit un-Star Wars-ish.  I barely recognize any of the numerous alien species.  that said, its still quite good and keeps a good sense of movement and lots of details. (Very important.)<br />As I said in my rant, its also important to note Mara's transistion.  She goes from the Emperor's Hand with all of her toys and gadgets to Mara Jade, scavenging what she has and being a bit more creative.<br />And she does have a heart.  She realizes the consequences of her failures and how they hurt innocent people.  And that she has to make things right.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't that the whole point of the bloody thing?<br />Oh, yes.  Reccomended.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R1XZOWYUJYAZX5	1569712514	122932255	The Phantom Affair (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not a bad way to start a series	The tpb premier of the XWRS series manages to give a good start to a great series.  The story in itself is a bit different from the rest of the story arcs, and remains on an individual scale like rest of the series's first half, whereas the second half is essentially one long, complex story.  `The Phantom Affair' puts the Rouges on the world of Mrlsst, bargaining at an academy campus for a new war technology.  This is mostly a wedge-centered arc, and he gets a few people from his past to join in.   The art by the late Edvin Buikovic is very good.  While his ships are detailed but fail to gain a sense of movement, his people are very good.  Incredibly detail goes top every face and background figure, which works very well when you have a story set on a crowded campus.  Three-fourths of the way through, the art is taken over by Gary Erksine.  While trying to imitate Buikovic, the art still takes a noticeable plunge in overall quality and Buikovic's sense of smoothness is unfortunately lost.  The color is done by David Nestelle, who will come to grace most of the series's story arcs with his superb coloring.  Nestelle proves that coloring is just as important as the art in setting the mood in many a scene.<br />The script is done by Darko Macan, who does casual dialogue pretty well, although his combat lingo leaves something to be desired.  The series begin with seven rouges, five of whom will see the end of the series.  Many future players await introduction, so `The Phantom Affair' is set apart a bit from other arcs, especially those in the latter half.  Wedge's background is set up well by the flashback involving Booster Terrik and the death of Wedge's parents.  Loka Hask proves to be an interesting, of not a bit too vocal, villain.  Also, tying together the beginning and ending of the series, Mirax Terrik takes on an important role in the story.  On an interesting note, another `special appearance' from later on in the series is her future husband, Corran Horn. (`Blood &amp; Honor')<br />Overall the plot takes more than its share of twists and turns.  While a good overall read, I personally feel that `The Phantom Affair' is a bit distanced from the rest of the series.  Nonetheless, it's a good kick-off that provided a glimpse of what is to come.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	RJ5ETN2WPFHG5	1569713308	635371306	The Warrior Princess (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nothing wrong with a break in the action	`The Warrior Princess' is probably my favorite first-half XWRS story arcs.  Stackpole uses politics in an expanded role, and it won't be the last time.  Plourr Illo is the main character here, for better of for worse.  Her history and that of her planet are rather interesting and parts of them parallel of the Russian Revolution, which is good in the opinion of the speaking history buff, at least.<br />The art is by John Nadeau again, and he does it well.  The architecture and landscape of Eiattu is well done, from the wide-open fields to the majestic royal hall.  David Nestelle returns as colorist and does a superb job once again.  Overall, `The Warrior Princess' is one of the most visually well-done XWRS comics.<br />Perhaps most important is the script by Scott Tolson.  `The Warrior Princess' introduces four new Rogues: Nrin Vakil the Quarren, Ibtisam the Mon Cal, Herrian the Bith, and Feylis Ardele, ex-TIE pilot.  Tolson writes good `banter' dialogue and sets up the four new additions well.  He does a particularly good job setting up the relationship between Nrin and Ibtisam, and it is one that will continue to evolve for the rest of the series.  It is also interesting to note that the lettering size is shrunk by about a third compared to the other arcs.  Tolson likes to write a lot of dialogue, and he does it well.<br />Overall, it is a good read.  Those who dislike Plourr may not be too fond of it, as she is the main character, but at the same time we also get a chance to see another side of the usually brash and loudmouthed pilot.  The introduction of four new Rogues makes it worthwhile, though.  And, like in `Battleground: Tatooine', it introduces a host of new characters that will appear later on, including Rial Pernon, Count Labaan, and Leonia Tavira of the `I, Jedi' fame.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R2C6PIBD7ZN8FW	1569713871	392062528	Blood and Honor (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 7)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Mixed Course	`Blood &amp; Honor' is basically two stories in one, including dramatically different art teams, so I'll do my best.<br />The first part, `The Making of Baron Fel', is definitely one of the most unique pieces of SW ever assembled.  Picking up right where `In the Empire's Service' ended, Baron Fel is in Rebel hands and through the interrogation chair reveals his life in service to the Empire in a mix of narration and flashbacks that could only be achieved in comic book format.  Fel's story is indeed a compelling one and does the rare feat of presenting a clear philosophical case against the Empire.<br />It has also been both praised and criticized for its extensive use of cameos.  I, for one, will do some praising, as it does help to tie the SW galaxy together.  Appearances by people such as Tarkin, Thrawn, Derricote, Isard, and so forth are key to the story, while people like Post ('Family Ties')and Turr Phennir (`In the Empire's Service') serve to tie together pieces of Fel's life and the over all XWRS story.<br />The art by Steve Crespo is good, with well-done people and a good amount of realism.  The spacecraft, while reasonably detailed, are nowhere near those of John Nadeau and his wizardry with technology.  The whole thing, for better or for worse, has a rather crisp look to it, as opposed to the very dirty style of Gary Erksine.<br />The slightly longer second part, `Family Ties' is a little of a letdown.  The art has little detail and the movement isn't very fluid either.  The story itself is alright, a bit of a nice breakaway after `In the Empire's Service'.  It opens in the aftermath of the Brentaal Campaign, where General Salm gives a little eulogy for the dead Aggressors and Rogues.  Following is Fel's introduction to the rogues and greeting that is not too kind.  Then Wedge send Plourr, Hobbie, and Janson to Corellia on a mission that takes up the rest of the story.   The appearance by Kirtan Loor was a nice touch, enhanced even more so when Corran Hornand Iella Wessiri from Stackpole's novels take on roles as co-stars.<br />`Family Ties' was colored by Perry McNamee instead of the usual David Nestelle, and, call me spoiled, but it shows.  One particular scene, if you read the dialogue, takes place at night, but you couldn't tell that by simply looking at it.<br />Overall, its is a key link to the rest of the series and is recommended for that and because of the very interesting look into the Empire provided by `The Making of Baron Fel.'	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R1TSW7EHLGK65F	1569714568	505711856	Star Wars - Jedi Academy: Leviathan	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Is this Star Wars?	It seemed more like Alien to me. It a good 'monster'-type story, despite Anderson's horrendously forced dialogue. But it has almost no elements of Star Wars, some bordering on the line of obscenely un-Star Wars-ish.  My biggest complain may be regarding Dorsk 82.  The idea behind him was by no means bad, but Anderson's writing turns him into an annoying, craven fool.  Sometimes I wished that Leviathan would just step on him and put the reader out of his or her misery.<br />The art's good, although once again, not Star Wars-ish.  It worked far better in the 'Tales of the Jedi' series than in the modern SW universe.<br />You wants real 'Star Wars' comics, see something like the X-wing Rogue Squadron comics, especially 'In the Empire's Service' and 'Mandatory Retirement'. You want a story transplanted to the SW universe, read this. I'm grading this as a Star Wars comic, and as a Star Wars comic its just plain bad.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R10EE1LL308FYJ	1569713316	803427284	Requiem for a Rogue (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 5)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lacking a bit	'Requiem for a Rogue' is probably the most unique in the series.  The Imperial-type villain is missing, the role instead shifting a bit throughout the story.  The Rogues are trapped on a forested planet while searching for a missing Bothan spaceliner, but things are very odd here, and the Bothans seem to have other plans as well.  The Rogues get forced between a rock and hard place here, and the end results in the death of not one, but two of the Rogues.<br />The art by Gary Erksine is very detailed, but senses of movement are pretty much lost.  The work has an overall `dirty' look to it, which works well considering the circumstances.  Forests and trees and brush and such are well done, which is good considering the setting.  His people seem a bit, well, ugly, but one can get around that.  His non-humans, like Ibtisam, Nrin, and the numerous Bothans, are well-done.  Although his style does have problems, it works better overall with `Requiem' than it would for any other arc.  David Nestelle works magic with the colors, enhancing the art and giving it a bit of a three-dimensional quality.  Possibly the best coloring in the series.<br />Jan Strand return from `Battleground: Tatooine' to script this one, and the quality is pretty much the same.  The elements of stuff like Sith magic may not bode well with many a fan, but it does tend to work in the sense that this planet of Malrev 4 is Force-potent, most likely resulting from its past.  Such things have been seen on other worlds in other series, so its not too far-fetched.  The dogfights are well-written and interesting, which is good because `Requiem' has more of them than any other XWRS story arc.  Like a lot of other XWRS story arcs, `Requiem' suffers a bit because of length restrictions.  The scenes between the characters in between the fighting are good, but it seems like more is needed.  A similar situation comes up later in `Mandatory Retirement', but in that case proof is given of what kind of scenes can comeout of such situations.<br />Overall, its is recommended.  While not the quality of most of the other story arcs, it has a well-built climax and sets the stage for the second act of the XWRS series.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R13EKF2NXVPVFH	0553576119	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	What can I say?	I've never been a Kevin J. Anderson fan, but that's beside the point. This is just ludicrous. Hutts building a superweapon is the equivalent of the mafia stocking up on nukes. It makes no sense whatsoever. To kill a character from the Trilogy over this is inexcusable.<br />The Imperial stuff is better, but I must say I'm pretty sure the only way Daala got the rank of Admiral is because of her little affair with Tarkin. She has a huge fleet and a shieldless moon she wants to obliterate. Anyone who knows anything about Star Wars can tell you all she needed to do was blast the place to shreds from orbit and not even loose a single ship. instead, she sends ground forces and bombers and get humiliated by the Jedi. Speaking of Jedi, I think its a bit too much for the Force to be able to hurl a fleet of Star Destroyers out of the system. I don't care what the cost was.  Plus, how can Anderson possibly consider 'Victory'-class Star Destroyers to be nearly as expendable as snubfighters?  Vics are someof the largest craft in the Sw universe and Anderson treats them like little corvettes and gunships.  All I can say is that Anderson is a horrible military writer.<br />And the 'Luke' storyling is alright, but the basis is off-based. Granted, Anderson was just conintuing a love interesting introduced by another author, but I still find it almost amusing how Zahn sets up Luke and Mara Jade and sits back, waiting for someone to see what he obviously set up. I guess he just ended up frustrated and decided to do it himself.<br />Also, what was with the one-armed Wampa? Does Anderson expect me to buy a Wampa got its arm severed and somehow managed to heal, hunt, and survive amidst swarms of his own kind that would love to kill the defenseless old thing? Give me a break.<br />All I can say is 'blech'. Not reccomended due to numerous absurdities, plot gaps, and the like.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R3OFFNQXRCG4CR	1569713553	806212655	Star Wars: Crimson Empire, Volume 1	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A bit of a mix	The idea itself and all is interesting, and I liked the flashbacks to the training of the guard.  However, I'm not to fond of the writing at some point, especially for Mirith Sinn.  Kir Kanos is an interesting character, but at some point you have to wonder if he's on the line of hypocrisy.  Indeed, his overall philosphy is remniscent of Baron Fel's in 'In the Empire's Service'. (very, very reccomended work, by the way)<br />The art has a nice cinematic style to it, but at the same time it seems to lack a bit of cohesiveness.  Effects like the ones for planets are odd but alright, but, alas the ships and cityscapes are poorly drawn.<br />Read 'Crimson Empire' for the action and information on the Imperial Guard.  If you want keen Imperials and a wide array of well-developed characters, look elsewhere, like the X-wing Rogue Squadron series.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R1YN2GKKAH66EY	156971276X	992338096	Battleground: Tatooine (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Beginnings	`Battleground: Tatooine' obviously goes back to the roots of the Star Wars saga.  The Rogues are sent to Tatooine to try to get a grip on the large amounts of illegal weapon trading and gang warfare in the wake of Jabba the Hutt's death.  This story is pretty important, as it introduces Winter and Devaroinian operative Kapp Dendo to the group, who will come to play roles later on in the second half of the series.<br />Penciler John Nadeau begins his long stint with XWRS here, and starts off well.  His work is a bit more defined here, although still maintains an overall `sketch'-type look to it.  His machinery is, as usual, perfect and highly detailed, and his people well done as well.  The colors by Perry McNamee are okay, but not up to the high standards set by David Nestelle, the series' usual colorist.<br />`Battleground: Tatooine' was obviously influenced quite a bit by Stackpole's novels, as characters such as Ko'shak, Cazne'olan, Huff Darklighter, and Sixtus Quin make their debuts here, not to mention setting Elscol's role in `The Bacta War'.  The script itself was done by Jan Strnad and was pretty well done, although not up to the standards of the series' other scripters.<br />One of my qualms with this arc is the villain, Capt. Semtin.  He would have been perfectly fine without those weird mechanical cat-like eyes and cybernetic implants, as they have no effect on the story itself.  I guess after Loka Hask in `The Phantom Affair', they wanted to make all their villains deformed or something.  It worked better with Hask.  In any case, it sets up people like Kapp for later in the series and starts off the relationship between Tycho and Winter that picks up again in `Masquerade' and `Mandatory Retirement.'  A good all-around read and recommended.	2001-08-13
US	42629613	R1S407TFNEIUUM	1569714924	863759822	Mandatory Retirement (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 9)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Superb Ending to a Superb Series	Stackpole ends his series with a bang. 'Mandatory Retirement' is indeed second only to 'In the Empire's Service' in the series in my opinion (as I prefer the larger-scale arcs) and is indeed uniquely Star Wars.<BR>The story begin with light scenes of the various Rogues intermixing, socializing, and so forth, building the characters enhanced over the course of the series. Intermixed with these, however, are grim scenes of the events on Coruscant and Cituric. Pestage, intermin Emperor, goes into hiding, and the hunt for him begins. Dinner, dancing, and enjoyment ends for the Rogues and they are suddenly thrown into the mix of things.<BR>One of the high points in this story are the many philosophical conversations about the Empire and the Repulbic and the differences between them. The conversations between Fel and Pestage and the clash between Nrin, Fel, Pestage, and Wedge after one of the Rogues is lost are both some of the best SW I've ever read. One must also take note of the dire contrast between the first and second halves. The Rogues begin by relaxing and enjoying themselves (except for to lonely, rejected Fel) and events transpire that put these same people in a dire, morbid situation where their hope for survival looks bleak. superb writing by Stackpole.<BR>Onto the art. The Nadeau-Crespo team is a success, with and very good mix of people and technology. X-wings, Y-wing, Bantha-class shuttles, and Star Destroyers all look superb, in particular a jaw-dropping two-page battle shot towards the end. Crespo does very good faces and their expressions. One of my favorite parts of the whole arc is the full-page shot of the Rogues and Kapp Dendo's commandoes standing over the cloth-covered body of a fallen Rogue. (Who will remain nameless, of course.) The expressions on each and every face is a virtual window into what each one must be thinking. And once again the coloring by Dave Nestelle is superb, perfectly conveying the feelings of bleakness and hopelessness in some scenes while conveying one of tranquility and enjoyment in others.<BR>In a series like Rogue Squadron, when you have dozen of characters, its hard to balance it out. But Stackpole does it just as well as he has throughout the series. Fel once again is a superb character, while others like Nrin show both their good points and their flaws very well. Pestage starts out as an almost sympathetic character, but as time goes on he becomes more and more loatheful.<BR>Not perfect, but still highly reccomended. It's also one of the few examples in Star Wars where an actualy deep, philosphical reason against the Empire is established. Bravo to Stackpole and crew for a great ending to a great series.	2001-08-12
US	42629613	RS3D7Q8DKD8L3	1569713839	774729045	In the Empire's Service (Star Wars: X-Wing Rogue Squadron, Volume 6)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best of Star Wars	Stackpole takes over writing the series and immediately kicks it into high gear by throwing the Rogues right into the midst of the war.  The Republic is beginning its campaign for Coruscant and starts by heading for the Core Worlds.  In this case, the first step is Brentaal, the rich and influential Core world.<br />This arc is unique in that it gives both the Rebels and Imperials almost equal time.  The faces of the Empire are many, and this arc shows a depth to it not acheived in anything else thus far.  The scheming by Ysanne Isard is great, while you also see the varying faces of the Empire on Brentaal itself.  Admiral Lon Isoto and Baron Soontir Fel are both Imperials, yet completely opposite characters.  Isoto is an incompetant, vain, corrupt, lazy, and perhaps even slightly insane man, while Fel is a very smart, strong, moral, yet somewhat flawed figure.  He is the greatest pilot in the Empire, and serves that Empire not because of who leads it, but because of simple loyalty to its people.  As time goes on, it becomes more and more apparent to him that perhaps his view on things was flawed, and perhaps he need to rectify it.  Along with Grand Admiral Thrawn, he is perhaps the best Imperial character to come out of the comics and novels.<br />The Rebels are interesting as well, and the Rogues are for the only time in the series at full strength.  Balancing the stories of 12 pilots is not easy, but as events transpire some paths are split and some interconnect.  Some, like Wedge, Tycho, Janson, Ibtisam, and Nrin, get more time, wheras ones like Dar Keyis and Standro are forced into the backdrop.  But that's alright, for reason I won't get into lest I spoil things.<br />The art by Nadeau perfectly fits the whole 'war movie'-type feel of 'In the Empire's Service.'  His technology and cityscapes are, as always, superb, and although his faces may be a little choppy at times, each person has his or her own face, which is very important with such a large cast.  And David Nestelle's coloring prowess is once again demonstrated.  Never slips, always consistent, always fitting the scene perfectly.<br />And who can forget the cliff-hanger last line of the series?<br />Bravo to the creators of 'In the Empire's Service'.  They've produced one of the most insightful, well-written examples of 'Star Wars' ever published, and the series' lack of sales is truly shameful.  Highly, highly reccomended work.	2001-08-12
